Now, sir, if that is not the plain common sense and correct view of the law, then I have been
misled, both by your Honor and by the prevalent received opinion. It is said that they had
a warrant. Why then, should they not establish its validity before the proper officers? And
I stand here to-day, sir, to say that with an exception, of which I shall soon speak, to procure
such a lawful investigation of the authority under which they claimed to act, was the part
I took in that day's proceedings, and the only part. I supposed it to be my duty as a citizen
of Ohio--excuse me for saying that, sir,--as an outlaw of the United States, (much sensation)
to do what I could to secure at least this form of justice to my brother, whose liberty was
at peril.--Whatever more than that has been sworn to on this trial, as act of mine, is false,
ridiculously false. When I found these men refusing to go, according to the law, as I apprehended
it, and subject their claim to an official inspection, and that nothing short of a habeas corpus
would oblige such an inspection, I was willing to go even thus far, supposing in that county
a sheriff might, perhaps, be found with nerve enough to serve it. In this again, I failed.
Nothing then was left to me, nothing to the boy in custody, but the confirmation of my first
belief that the pretended authority was worthless, and the employment of those means of liberation
which belong to us. With regard to the part I took in the forcible rescue, which followed,
I have nothing to say, further than I have already said. The evidence is before you. It is
alleged that I said "We will have him anyhow." This I NEVER said. I did say to Mr. Lowe, what
I honestly believe to be the truth, that the crowd was very much excited, many of them averse
to longer delay and bent upon a rescue at all hazards; and that he being an old acquaintance
and friend of mine, I was anxious to extricate him from the dangerous position he occupied,
and therefore advised Jennings to give the boy up. Further than this I did not say, either
to him or to anyone else.

The law under which I am arraigned is an unjust one, one made to crush the colored man, and
one that outrages every feeling of humanity, as well as every rule of Right.

With its constitutionality I have nothing to do; about that I know but little and care much
less. But suppose it is constitutional, what then? To tell me a law is constitutional which
robs me of my liberty is simply ridiculous. I would curse the constitution that authorized
the enactment of such a law; I would trample the provisions of such a law under my feet and
defy its pains and penalties. I would respect and obey such an inhuman law no more than OUR
revolutionary fathers did the odious and absurd doctrine that kings and tyrants reign and rule
by divine right. But it has often been said by learned and good men that this law is unconstitutional.
I remember the excitement that prevailed throughout all the free States when it was passed;
I remember, too, how often it has been said by individuals, conventions, legislatures, and
even Judges that it is not only unconstitutional, but that it never could be, never should
be, and never was meant to be enforced. I had always believed, until the contrary appeared
in the actual institution of proceedings, that the provisions of this odious statute would
never be enforced within the bounds of this State.

But I have another reason to offer why I should not be sentenced, and one that I think pertinent
to the case. The common law of England--and you will excuse me for referring to that, since
I am not a lawyer, but a private man--was that every man should be tried by a jury of men occupying
the same political and legal status with himself. Lords should be tried before a jury of lords;
peers of the realm should be tried before peers of the realm; vassals before vassals. The Constitution
of the United States guarantees--not merely to its citizens, but to all persons--a trial before
an impartial jury. I have had no such trial.

The colored man is oppressed by certain universal and deeply fixed prejudices. Those jurors
are well known to have shared largely in these prejudices, and I therefore consider that they
were neither impartial, nor were they a jury of my peers. Politically and legally they are
not my equals. They have aided to form a State constitution which denies to colored men citizenship,
and under that constitution laws have been enacted withholding from us many of our most valuable
rights. These unjust laws exclude colored men from the jury box and force us to be tried in
every case by jurors, not only filled with prejudices against us, but far above us politically
and legally, made so both by the statute laws and by the Constitution. The prejudices which
white people have against colored men grow out of the fact that we have, as a people, consented
for two hundred years to be slaves of the whites. We have been scourged, crushed, and cruelly
oppressed, and have submitted to it all tamely, meekly, peaceably; I mean, as a people, with
rare individual exceptions,--and to-day you see us thus meekly submitting to the penalties
of an infamous law. Now the Americans have this feeling, and it is an honorable one, that they
will respect those who rebel at oppression, but despise those who tamely submit to outrage
and wrong; and while our people as a people submit, they will as a people be despised. Why,
they will hardly meet on terms of equality with us in a whiskey shop, in a car, at a table,
or even at the altar of God, so thorough and hearty a contempt have they for those who lie
still under the heel of the oppressor. The jury came into the box with that feeling. They knew
that they had that feeling, and so the Court knows now, and knew then. The gentlemen who prosecuted
me, the Court itself, and even the counsel who defended me, have that feeling.

I was tried by a jury which was prejudiced; before a Court that was prejudiced; prosecuted
by an officer who was prejudiced, and defended, though ably, by counsel who were prejudiced.
And therefore it is, your Honor, that I urge by all that is good and great in manhood, that
I should not be subjected to the pains and penalties of this oppressive law, when I have not
been tried, either by a jury of my peers, according to the principles of the common law, or
by an impartial jury according to the Constitution of the United States.

One more word, sir, and I have done. I went to Wellington, knowing that colored men have no
rights in the United States which white men are bound to respect; that the Courts had so decided;
that Congress had so enacted; that the people had so decreed.

There is not a spot in this wide country, not even by the altars of God, nor in the shadow
of the shafts that tell the imperishable fame and glory of the heroes of the Revolution; no,
nor in the old Philadelphia Hall, where any colored man may dare to ask mercy of a white man.
Let me stand in that Hall and tell a United States marshal that my father was a Revolutionary
soldier; that he served under Lafayette, and fought through the whole war, and that he fought
for my freedom as much as for his own; and he would sneer at me, and clutch me with his bloody
fingers, and say he has a right to make me a slave! and when I appeal to Congress, they say
he has a right to make me a slave, and when I appeal to your Honor, your Honor says he has
a right to make me a slave. And if any man, white or black, seeks an investigation of that
claim, he makes himself amenable to the pains and penalties of the Fugitive Slave Act, for
BLACK MEN HAVE NO RIGHTS WHICH WHITE MEN ARE BOUND TO RESPECT. (Great applause.) I, going to
Wellington with the full knowledge of all this, knew that if that man was taken to Columbus
he was hopelessly gone, no matter whether he had ever been in slavery before or not. I knew
that I was in the same situation myself, and that by the decision of your Honor, if any man
whatever were to claim me as his slave and seize me, and my brother, being a lawyer, should
seek to get out a writ of habeas corpus to expose the falsity of the claim, he would be thrust
into prison under one provision of the Fugitive Slave Law, for interfering with the man claiming
to be in pursuit of a fugitive, and I, by the perjury of a solitary wretch, would by another
of its provisions be helplessly doomed to lifelong bondage, without the possibility of escape.

Some may say that there is no danger of free persons being seized and carried off as slaves.
No one need labor under such a delusion. Sir, four of the eight persons who were first carried
back under the act of 1850 were afterwards proved to be free men. They were free persons, but
wholly at the mercy of the oath of one man. And but last Sabbath afternoon a letter came to
me from a gentleman in St. Louis informing me that a young lady, who was formerly under my
instructions at Columbus, a free person, is now lying in jail at that place, claimed as the
slave of some wretch who never saw her before, and waiting for testimony of relatives at Columbus
to establish her freedom. I could stand here by the hour and relate such instances. In the
very nature of the case, they must be constantly occurring. A letter was not long since found
upon the person of a counterfeiter, when arrested, addressed to him by some Southern gentleman,
in which the writer says:

"Go among the niggers, find out their marks and scars; make good descriptions and send to me,
and I'll find masters for 'em."

That is the way men are carried back to slavery.

But in view of all the facts, I say that, if ever again a man is seized near me, and is about
to be carried southward as a slave before any legal investigation has been had, I shall hold
it to be my duty, as I held it that day, to secure for him, if possible, a legal inquiry into
the character of the claim by which he is held. And I go farther; I say that if it is adjudged
illegal to procure even such an investigation, then we are thrown back upon those last defenses
of our rights which cannot be taken from us, and which God gave us that we need not be slaves.
I ask your Honor, while I say this, to place yourself in my situation, and you will say with
me that, if your brother, if your friend, if your wife, if your child, had been seized by men
who claimed them as fugitives, and the law of the land forbade you to ask any investigation,
and precluded the possibility of any legal protection or redress--then you will say with me
that you would not only demand the protection of the law, but you would call in your neighbors
and your friends, and would ask them to say with you, that, these, your friends, could not
be taken into slavery.

And now, I thank you for this leniency, this indulgence, in giving a man unjustly condemned,
by a tribunal before which he is declared to have no rights, the privilege of speaking in his
own behalf. I know that it will do nothing toward mitigating your sentence, but it is a privilege
to be allowed to speak, and I thank you for it. I shall submit to the penalty, be it what it
may. But I stand up here to say that if for doing what I did on that day at Wellington, I am
to go to jail for six months, and pay a fine of a thousand dollars, according to the Fugitive
Slave Law, and if such is the protection the laws of this country afford me, I must take upon
myself the responsibility of self-protection; when I come to be claimed by some perjured wretch
as his slave, I shall never be taken into slavery. And in that trying hour, I would have others
do to me, as I would call upon my friends to help me; as I would call upon you, your Honor,
to help me, as I would call upon you (to the District Attorney) to help me, and upon you (to
Judge Bliss), and you (his counsel) so help me God! I stand here to say that I will do all
I can for any man thus seized and held, though the inevitable penalty of six months' imprisonment
and one thousand dollars fine for each offense hang over me! We have all a common humanity,
and that humanity will, if rightly exercised, compel us to aid each other when our rights are
invaded. The man who can see a fellow man wronged and outraged without assisting him must have
lost all the manly feelings of his nature. You would all assist any man under such circumstances;
your manhood would require it; and no matter what the laws might be, you would honor yourself
for doing it, while your friends and your children to all generations would honor you for doing
it, and every good and honest man would say you had done right! (Great and prolonged applause,
in spite of the efforts of the Court and marshal.)

Judge Willson remarked: Mr. Langston, you do the Court injustice in supposing the remarks were
called out as a mere idle form, or would not get a respectful consideration from the Court.

It is not the duty of the Court to make the laws--that is left to other tribunals; but our
duty, under an official oath, is to administer the laws, good or bad, as we find them.

I find many mitigating circumstances in your case, and the sentence will therefore be, that
you pay a fine of one hundred dollars and the costs of suit, and be imprisoned in jail for
twenty days, and it shall be the duty of the Marshal to see the imprisonment carried out in
this or some other county jail in this district.

YOUNG MEN, TO THE FRONT!

BY HON. RICHARD T. GREENER, LL. D.

RICHARD T. GREENER, as far as is known, was the first Negro to be graduated from Harvard University
with the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He received the degree of LL.D. both from Howard University
and from Liberia College, Monrovia, of which he was the dean for some time. In 1897 he was
appointed United States Consul to Vladivostok, and served through the Russian-Japanese War.
While in this official capacity he was decorated by the Chinese Government with the order of
the "Double Dragon," the only Negro ever so honored.

The adage which was once so common, if not so thoroughly axiomatic as to gain universal credence--"Old
men for council and young men for war"--assumes additional notoriety to-day, when the old men
are quarreling in the council chamber and the young men are kept outside the door. While the
young men are willing to allow much to the school of experience, many of them are the followers
of Locke, and believe in the doctrine of innate ideas. They believe, to continue the comparison,
that experience and wisdom do not always spring from length of years, nor does ignorance appertain
to youth as a necessity. They dare assert that, as there are those who would never be men,
lived they to be as old as Methuselah, so there are some whose minds are as well filled, whose
judgments are as mature at twenty-five and eight, and their energy as decisive as though they
were in their tenth lustrum. Conscious of this fact, it is the absurdity of folly for the young
colored men of the country to sit idly by and see the grandest opportunities slipping away,
the best cases lost by default because of the lack of energy displayed by many of our so-called
leaders who have been longer on the field. With some very few exceptions, honorable as they
are rare, they have done well for their day and generation; but with regard to the needs and
policy of the Negroes of the present hour they are as innocent as babes. Men for the most part
of excellent temper and good working capacity, they lack that which is the handmaid and often
the indispensable auxiliary of knowledge and all effective work--judgment. Unconscious puppets
often, they dance to unseen music, moved themselves by hidden wires.

The convention was the favorite resort of the leading Negro of ten years ago. He convened and
resolved, resolved and unconvened--read his own speeches, was delighted with his own frothy
rhetoric, and really imagined himself a great man. He talked eloquently then, it must be granted,
because he spoke of his wrongs; but when the war overturned the edifice of slavery "Othello's
occupation" was "gone," indeed. The number who have survived and held their own under the new
order of things may be counted upon one hand. They survive through that grand old law so much
combated but ever true--the survival of the fittest. They alone give character and reputation
to the Negro. They make for him a fame which begets respect where his wrongs only excited pity.
The field is comparatively clear now some of the older hacks have fallen by the way or lie
spavined at the roadside. The question is, Will the young men of color throughout the country
resolve to begin now to take part in public affairs, asserting their claim wherever it is denied,
maintaining it wherever contested, and show that the young may be safe in counsel as well as
good for war?

There are some who arrogate to themselves wisdom because of their years, just as some equally
absurd people think they are wise because they never went to a high school or an academy--men,
Heaven save the mark! who pride themselves on having never slaked their thirst at the fount
of knowledge. It is not our purpose to disparage age. We remember what Cicero has written,
so delightfully, of its pleasures; what Cephalus and Socrates thought of it in the Republic.
We look "toward sunset" with reverence and respect; but it is with a reverence that makes us
conscious of our own duty. The young men are now studying, working, some, alas! idling away
their time who ought to be the active, earnest men in the next Presidential campaign; young
men who are to control the destinies of the race. Many of them are of marked ability and decidedly
energetic in character. Not so fluent, perhaps, as their fathers, they are more thoughtful.
They are found throughout the country. We feel that, if like Roderick Dhu, we should put the
whistle to our lips and blow a stirring blast, they would spring up in every part of the country
ready with voice, pen, or muscle to do their share in any honorable work. In spirit we do this,
as young men ourselves, willing to blow a blast which, would that the young men of the country
would hear and heed! Young men, to the front! Young men, rouse yourselves! Take the opportunities;
make them where they are denied! "Quit you like men; be strong."

Young men, to the front!

THE CIVIL RIGHTS' BELL[6]

BY ROBERT BROWNE ELLIOT

Representative from South Carolina

[Note 6: Extracts from a speech delivered in the House of Representatives, January 6, 1874.]

Mr. Speaker:

While I am sincerely grateful for this high mark of courtesy that has been accorded to me by
this House, it is a matter of regret to me that it is necessary at this day that I should rise
in the presence of an American Congress to advocate a bill which simply asserts equal rights
and equal public privileges for all classes of American citizens. I regret, sir, that the dark
hue of my skin may lend a color to the imputation that I am controlled by motives personal
to myself in my advocacy of this great measure of national justice. Sir, the motive that impels
me is restricted by no such narrow boundary, but is as broad as your Constitution. I advocate
it, sir, because it is right. The bill, however, not only appeals to your justice, but it demands
a response from your gratitude.

In the events that led to the achievement of American independence the Negro was not an inactive
or unconcerned spectator. He bore his part bravely upon many battlefields, although uncheered
by that certain hope of political elevation which victory would secure to the white man. The
tall granite shaft, which a grateful State has reared above its sons who fell in defending
Fort Griswold against the attack of Benedict Arnold, bears the name of Jordan, Freeman, and
other brave men of the African race, who there cemented with their blood the corner-stone of
the Republic. In the State which I have the honor in part to represent (South Carolina) the
rifle of the black man rang out against the troops of the British Crown in the darkest days
of the American Revolution. Said General Greene, who has been justly termed the "Washington
of the North," in a letter written by him to Alexander Hamilton, on the 10th of January, 1781,
from the vicinity of Camden, South Carolina: "There is no such thing as national character
or national sentiment. The inhabitants are numerous, but they would be rather formidable abroad
than at home. There is a great spirit of enterprise among the black people, and those that
come out as volunteers are not a little formidable to the enemy."

At the battle of New Orleans under the immortal Jackson, a colored regiment held the extreme
right of the American line unflinchingly, and drove back the British column that pressed upon
them at the point of the bayonet. So marked was their valor on that occasion that it evoked
from their great commander the warmest encomiums, as will be seen from his dispatch announcing
the brilliant victory.

As the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. Beck), who seems to be the leading exponent on this floor
of the party that is arrayed against the principle of this bill, has been pleased, in season
and out of season, to cast odium upon the Negro and to vaunt the chivalry of his State, I may
be pardoned for calling attention to another portion of the same dispatch. Referring to the
various regiments under his command, and their conduct on that field which terminated the second
war of American Independence, General Jackson says. "At the very moment when the entire discomfiture
of the enemy was looked for with a confidence amounting to certainty, the Kentucky reinforcements,
in whom so much reliance had been placed, ingloriously fled."

In quoting this indisputable piece of history, I do so only by way of admonition and not to
question the well-attested gallantly of the true Kentuckian, and to the gentleman that it would
be well that he should not flaunt his heraldry so proudly while he bears this bar-sinister
on the military escutcheon of his State--a State which answered the call of the Republic in
1861, when treason thundered at the very gates of the Capital, by coldly declaring her neutrality
in the impending struggle. The Negro, true to that patriotism and love of country that have
ever marked and characterized his history on this continent, came to the aid of the Government
in its efforts to maintain the Constitution. To that Government he now appeals; that Constitution
he now invokes for protection against outrage and unjust prejudices founded upon caste.

But, sir, we are told by the distinguished gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Stephens) that Congress
has no power under the Constitution to pass such a law, and that the passage of such an act
is in direct contravention of the rights of the States. I cannot assent to any such proposition.
The Constitution of a free government ought always to be construed in favor of human rights.
Indeed, the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth amendments, in positive words, invest Congress
with the power to protect the citizen in his civil and political rights. Now, sir, what are
civil rights? Rights natural, modified by civil society. Mr. Lieber says: "By civil liberty
is meant, not only the absence of individual restraint, but liberty within the social system
and political organism--a combination of principles, and laws which acknowledge, protect, and
favor the dignity of man * * * civil liberty is the result of man's two fold character as an
individual and social being, so soon as both are equally respected."[7]

[Note 7: Lieber on Civil Liberty, page 25.]

Alexander Hamilton, the right-hand man of Washington in the perilous days of the then infant
Republic; the great interpreter and expounder of the Constitution, says: "Natural liberty is
the gift of a beneficent Creator to the whole human race; civil liberty is founded on it, civil
liberty is only natural liberty modified and secured by civil society."[8]

[Note 8: Hamilton's History of the American Republic, Vol. I, page 70.]

* * * * *

Are we then, sir, with the amendments to our constitution staring us in the face; with these
grand truths of history before our eyes; with innumerable wrongs daily inflicted upon five
million citizens demanding redress, to commit this question to the diversity of legislation?
In the words of Hamilton--"Is it the interest of the Government to sacrifice individual rights
to the preservation of the rights of an artificial being called the States? There can be no
truer principle than this, that every individual of the community at large has an equal right
to the protection of Government. Can this be a free Government if partial distinctions are
tolerated or maintained?"

But the Slaughter-house cases!--The Slaughter-house cases!

The honorable gentleman from Kentucky, always swift to sustain the failing and dishonored cause
of proscription, rushes forward and flaunts in our faces the decision of the Supreme Court
of the United States in the Slaughter-house cases, and in that act he has been willingly aided
by the gentleman from Georgia. Hitherto, in the contests which have marked the progress of
the cause of equal civil rights, our opponents have appealed sometimes to custom, sometimes
to prejudice, more often to pride of race, but they have never sought to shield themselves
behind the Supreme Court. But now for the first time, we are told that we are barred by a decision
of that court, from which there is no appeal. If this be true we must stay our hands. The cause
of equal civil rights must pause at the command of a power whose edicts must be obeyed till
the fundamental law of our country is changed.

Has the honorable gentleman from Kentucky considered well the claim he now advances? If it
were not disrespectful I would ask, has he ever read the decision which he now tells us is
an insuperable barrier to the adoption of this great measure of justice?

In the consideration of this subject, has not the judgment of the gentleman from Georgia been
warped by the ghost of the dead doctrines of States-rights? Has he been altogether free from
prejudices engendered by long training in that school of politics that well-nigh destroyed
this Government?

Mr. Speaker, I venture to say here in the presence of the gentleman from Kentucky, and the
gentleman from Georgia, and in the presence of the whole country, that there is not a line
or word, not a thought or dictum even, in the decision of the Supreme Court in the great Slaughter-house
cases, which casts a shadow of doubt on the right of Congress to pass the pending bill, or
to adopt such other legislation as it may judge proper and necessary to secure perfect equality
before the law to every citizen of the Republic. Sir, I protest against the dishonor now cast
upon our Supreme Court by both the gentleman from Kentucky and the gentleman from Georgia.
In other days, when the whole country was bowing beneath the yoke of slavery, when press, pulpit,
platform, Congress and courts felt the fatal power of the slave oligarchy, I remember a decision
of that court which no American now reads without shame and humiliation. But those days are
past; the Supreme Court of to-day is a tribunal as true to freedom as any department of this
Government, and I am honored with the opportunity of repelling a deep disgrace which the gentleman
from Kentucky, backed and sustained as he is by the gentleman from Georgia, seeks to put upon it.

* * * * *

The amendments in the Slaughter-house cases one and all, are thus declared to have as their
all-pervading design and ends the security of the recently enslaved race, not only their nominal
freedom, but their complete protection from those who had formerly exercised unlimited dominion
over them. It is in this broad light that all these amendments must be read, the purpose to
secure the perfect equality before the law of all citizens of the United States. What you give
to one class you must give to all, what you deny to one class you shall deny to all, unless
in the exercise of the common and universal police power of the State, you find it needful
to confer exclusive privileges on certain citizens, to be held and exercised still for the
common good of all.

Such are the doctrines of the Slaughter-house cases--doctrines worthy of the Republic, worthy
of the age, worthy of the great tribunal which thus loftily and impressively enunciates them.
Do they--I put it to any man, be he lawyer or not; I put it to the gentleman from Georgia--do
they give color even to the claim that this Congress may not now legislate against a plain
discrimination made by State laws or State customs against that very race for whose complete
freedom and protection these great amendments were elaborated and adopted? Is it pretended,
I ask the honorable gentleman from Kentucky or the honorable gentleman from Georgia--is it
pretended anywhere that the evils of which we complain, our exclusion from the public inn,
from the saloon and table of the steamboat, from the sleeping-coach on the railway, from the
right of sepulture in the public burial-ground, are an exercise of the police power of the
State? Is such oppression and injustice nothing but the exercise by the State of the right
to make regulations for the health, comfort, and security of all her citizens? Is it merely
enacting that one man shall so use his own as not to injure anothers? Is the colored race to
be assimilated to an unwholesome trade or to combustible materials, to be interdicted, to be
shut up within prescribed limits? Let the gentleman from Kentucky or the gentleman from Georgia
answer. Let the country know to what extent even the audacious prejudice of the gentleman from
Kentucky will drive him, and how far even the gentleman from Georgia will permit himself to
be led captive by the unrighteous teachings of a false political faith.

If we are to be likened in legal view to "unwholesome trades," to "large and offensive collections
of animals" to "noxious slaughter-houses," to "the offal and stench which attend on certain
manufactures" let it be avowed. If that is still the doctrine of the political party, to which
the gentlemen belong, let it be put upon record. If State laws which deny us the common rights
and privileges of other citizens, upon no possible or conceivable ground save one of prejudice,
or of "taste" as the gentleman from Texas termed it, and as I suppose the gentlemen will prefer
to call it, are to be placed under the protection of a decision which affirms the right of
a State to regulate the police power of her great cities, then the decision is in conflict
with the bill before us. No man will dare maintain such a doctrine. It is as shocking to the
legal mind as it is offensive to the heart and conscience of all who love justice or respect
manhood. I am astonished that the gentleman from Kentucky or the gentleman from Georgia should
have been so grossly misled as to rise here and assert that the decision of the Supreme Court
in these cases was a denial to Congress of the power to legislate against discriminations on
account of race, color, or previous conditions of servitude because that Court has decided
that exclusive privileges conferred for the common protection of the lives and health of the
whole community are not in violation of the recent amendments. The only ground upon which the
grant of exclusive privileges to a portion of the community is ever defended is that the substantial
good of all is promoted; that in truth it is for the welfare of the whole community that certain
persons should alone pursue certain occupations. It is not the special benefit conferred on
the few that moves the legislature, but the ultimate and real benefit of all, even of those
who are denied the right to pursue those specified occupations. Does the gentleman from Kentucky
say that my good is promoted when I am excluded from the public inn? Is the health or safety
of the community promoted? Doubtless his prejudice is gratified. Doubtless his democratic instincts
are pleased; but will he or his able coadjutor say that such exclusion is a lawful exercise
of the police power of the State, or that it is not a denial to me of the equal protection
of the laws? They will not so say.

But each of these gentlemen quote at some length from the decision of the court to show that
the court recognizes a difference between citizenship of the United States and citizenship
of the States. That is true and no man here who supports this bill questions or overlooks the
difference. There are privileges and immunities which belong to me as a citizen of the United
States, and there are other privileges and immunities which belong to me as a citizen of my
State. The former are under the protection of the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and the latter are under the protection of the Constitution and laws of my State. But what
of that? Are the rights which I now claim--the right to enjoy the common public conveniences
of travel on public highways, of rest and refreshment at public inns, of education in public
schools, of burial in public cemeteries--rights which I hold as a citizen of the United States
or of my State? Or, to state the question more exactly, is not the denial of such privileges
to me a denial to me of the equal protection of the laws? For it is under this clause of the
fourteenth amendment that we place the present bill, no State shall "deny to any person within
its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." No matter, therefore, whether his rights
are held under the United States or under his particular State he is equally protected by this
amendment. He is always and everywhere entitled to the equal protection of the laws. All discrimination
is forbidden; and while the rights of citizens of a State as such are not defined or conferred
by the Constitution of the United States, yet all discrimination, all denial of equality before
the law, all denial of equal protection of the laws whether State or national laws, is forbidden.

The distinction between the two kinds of citizenship is clear, and the Supreme Court has clearly
pointed out this distinction, but it has nowhere written a word or line which denies to Congress
the power to prevent a denial of equality of rights whether those rights exist by virtue of
citizenship of the United States or of a State. Let honorable members mark well this distinction.
There are rights which are conferred on us by the United States. There are other rights conferred
on us by the states of which we are individually the citizens. The fourteenth amendment does
not forbid a state to deny to all its citizens any of those rights which the state itself has
conferred with certain exceptions which are pointed out in the decision which we are examining.
What it does forbid is inequality, is discrimination or, to use the words of the amendment
itself, is the denial "to any person within its jurisdiction, the equal protection of the laws."
If a State denies to me rights which are common to all her other citizens, she violates this
amendment, unless she can show, as was shown in the Slaughter-house cases, that she does it
in the legitimate exercise of her police power. If she abridges the rights of all her citizens
equally, unless those rights are specifically guarded by the Constitution of the United States,
she does not violate this amendment. This is not to put the rights which I hold by virtue of
my citizenship of South Carolina under the protection of the national Government; it is not
to blot out or overlook in the slightest particular the distinction between rights held under
the United States and rights held under the States; but it seeks to secure equality to prevent
discrimination, to confer as complete and ample protection on the humblest as on the highest.

The gentleman from Kentucky, in the course of the speech to which I am now replying, made a
reference to the State of Massachusetts which betrays again the confusion which exists in his
mind on this precise point. He tells us that Massachusetts excludes from the ballot-box all
who cannot read and write, and points to that fact as the exercise of a right which this bill
would abridge or impair. The honorable gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr. Dawes) answered him
truly and well, but I submit that he did not make the best reply, why did he not ask the gentleman
from Kentucky if Massachusetts had ever discriminated against any of her citizens on account
of color, or race, or previous condition of servitude? When did Massachusetts sully her proud
record by placing on her statute-book any law which admitted to the ballot the white man and
shut out the black man. She has never done it; she will not do it; she cannot do it so long
as we have a Supreme Court which reads the Constitution of our country with the eyes of Justice;
nor can Massachusetts or Kentucky deny to any man on account of his race, color, or previous
condition of servitude, that perfect equality of protection under the laws so long as Congress
shall exercise the power to enforce by appropriate legislation the great and unquestionable
securities embodied in the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution.

* * * * *

Now, sir, having spoken of the prohibition imposed by Massachusetts, I may be pardoned for
a slight inquiry as to the effect of this prohibition. First, it did not in any way abridge
or curtail the exercise of the suffrage by any person who enjoyed such right. Nor did it discriminate
against the illiterate native and the illiterate foreigner. Being enacted for the good of the
entire commonwealth, like all just laws, its obligations fell equally and impartially on all
its citizens. And as a justification for such a measure, it is a fact too well known almost
for mention here that Massachusetts had, from the beginning of her history, recognized the
inestimable value of an educated ballot, by not only maintaining a system of free schools,
but also enforcing an attendance thereupon, as one of the safeguards for the preservation of
a real republican form of government. Recurring then, sir, to the possible contingency alluded
to by the gentleman from Kentucky, should the State of Kentucky, having first established a
system of common schools whose doors shall swing open freely to all, as contemplated by the
provisions of this bill, adopt a provision similar to that of Massachusetts, no one would have
cause justly to complain. And if in the coming years the result of such legislation should
produce a constituency rivaling that of the Old Bay State, no one would be more highly gratified
than I. Mr. Speaker, I have neither the time nor the inclination to notice the many illogical
and forced conclusions, the numerous transfers of terms, or the vulgar insinuations which further
encumber the argument of the gentleman from Kentucky. Reason and argument are worse than wasted
upon those who meet every demand for political and civil liberty by such ribaldry as this--extracted
from the speech of the gentleman from Kentucky: "I suppose there are gentlemen on this floor
who would arrest, imprison, and fine a young woman in any State of the South if she were to
refuse to marry a Negro man on account of color, race, or previous condition of servitude,
in the event of his making her a proposal of marriage, and her refusing on that ground. That
would be depriving him of a right he had under the amendment, and Congress would be asked to
take it up and say, 'This insolent white woman must be taught to know that it is a misdemeanor
to deny a man marriage because of race, color, or previous condition of servitude,' and Congress
will be urged to say after a while that that sort of thing must be put a stop to, and your
conventions of colored men will come here asking you to enforce that right."

Now, sir, recurring to the venerable and distinguished gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Stephens)
who has added his remonstrance against the passage of this bill, permit me to say that I share
in the feeling of high personal regard for that gentleman which pervades this House. His years,
his ability, and his long experience in public affairs entitle him to the measure of consideration
which has been accorded to him on this floor. But in this discussion I cannot and will not
forget that the welfare and rights of my whole race in this country are involved. When, therefore,
the honorable gentleman from Georgia lends his voice and influence to defeat this measure,
I do not shrink from saying that it is not from him that the American House of Representatives
should take lessons in matters touching human rights or the joint relations of the State and
national governments. While the honorable gentleman contented himself with harmless speculations
in his study, or in the columns of a newspaper, we might well smile at the impotence of his
efforts to turn back the advancing tide of opinion and progress; but, when he comes again upon
this national arena, and throws himself with all his power and influence across the path which
leads to the full enfranchisement of my race, I meet him only as an adversary; nor shall age
or any other consideration restrain me from saying that he now offers this Government which
he has done his utmost to destroy, a very poor return for its magnanimous treatment, to come
here and seek to continue, by the assertion of doctrines obnoxious to the true principles of
our Government, the burdens and oppressions which rest upon five millions of his countrymen
who never failed to lift their earnest prayers for the success of this Government when the
gentleman was seeking to break up the union of these States and to blot the American Republic
from the galaxy of nations.

Sir, it is scarcely twelve years since that gentleman shocked the civilized world by announcing
the birth of a government which rested on human slavery as its corner-stone. The progress of
events has swept away that pseudo-government which rested on greed, pride, and tyranny; and
the race whom he then ruthlessly spurned and trampled on is here to meet him in debate, and
to demand that the rights which are enjoyed by its former oppressors--who vainly sought to
overthrow a Government which they could not prostitute to the base uses of slavery--shall be
accorded to those who even in the darkness of slavery kept their allegiance true to freedom
and the Union. Sir, the gentleman from Georgia has learned much since 1861; but he is still
a laggard. Let him put away entirely the false and fatal theories which have so greatly marred
an otherwise enviable record. Let him accept, in its fullness and beneficence, the great doctrine
that American citizenship carries with it every civil and political right which manhood can
confer. Let him lend his influence with all his masterly ability, to complete the proud structure
of legislation which makes this nation worthy of the great declaration which heralded its birth
and he will have done that which will most nearly redeem his reputation in the eyes of the
world, and best vindicate the wisdom of that policy which has permitted him to regain his seat
upon this floor.

To the diatribe of the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Harris) who spoke yesterday, and who so
far transcended the limits of decency and propriety as to announce upon this floor that his
remarks were addressed to white men alone, I shall have no word of reply. Let him feel that
a Negro was not only too magnanimous to smite him in his weakness, but was even charitable
enough to grant him the mercy of his silence. I shall, sir, leave to others less charitable
the unenviable and fatiguing task of sifting out of that mass of chaff the few grains of sense
that may, perchance deserve notice. Assuring the gentleman that the Negro in this country aims
at a higher degree of intellect than that exhibited by him in this debate, I cheerfully commend
him to the commiseration of all intelligent men the world over--black men as well as white men.

Sir, equality before the law is now the broad, universal, glorious rule and mandate of the
Republic. No State can violate that. Kentucky and Georgia may crowd their statute-books with
retrograde and barbarous legislation; they may rejoice in the odious eminence of their consistent
hostility to all the great steps of human progress which have marked our national history since
slavery tore down the stars and stripes on Fort Sumter; but, if Congress shall do its duty,
if Congress shall enforce the great guarantees which the Supreme Court has declared to be the
one pervading purpose of all the recent amendments, then their unwise and unenlightened conduct
will fall with the same weight upon the gentlemen from those States who now lend their influence
to defeat this bill, as upon the poorest slave who once had no rights which the honorable gentlemen
were bound to respect.

But, sir, not only does the decision in the Slaughter-house cases contain nothing which suggests
a doubt of the power of Congress to pass the pending bill, but it contains an express recognition
and affirmance of such power. I quote from page 81 of the volume: "Nor shall any State deny
to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."

In the light of the history of these amendments, and the pervading purpose of them which we
have already discussed, it is not difficult to give a meaning to this clause. The existence
of laws in the States where the newly emancipated Negroes resided, which discriminated with
gross injustice and hardship against them as a class, was the evil to be remedied by this clause,
and by it such laws are forbidden.

If, however, the States did not conform their views to its requirements, then, by the fifth
section of the article of amendment, Congress was authorized to enforce it by suitable legislation.
It is so clearly a provision for that race and that emergency, that a strong case would be
necessary for its application to any other. But as it is a State that is to be dealt with,
and not alone the validity of its laws, we may safely leave that matter until Congress shall
have exercised its power, or some case of State oppression, by denial of equal justice in its
courts, shall have claimed a decision at our hands.

No language could convey a more complete assertion of the power of Congress over the subject
embraced in the present bill than is here expressed. If the States do not conform to the requirements
of this clause, if they continue to deny to any person within their jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws, or as the Supreme Court had said "deny equal justice in its Courts"
then Congress is here said to have power to enforce the Constitutional guarantee by appropriate
legislation. That is the power which this bill now seeks to put in exercise.

It proposes to enforce the Constitutional guarantee against inequality and discrimination by
appropriate legislation. It does not seek to confer new rights, nor to place rights conferred
by State citizenship under the protection of the United States, but simply to prevent and forbid
inequality and discrimination on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.
Never was there a bill which appealed for support more strongly to that sense of justice and
fair play which has been said, and in the main with justice, to be a characteristic of the
Anglo-Saxon race. The Constitution warrants it; the Supreme Court sanctions it; justice demands it.

Sir, I have replied to the extent of my ability to the arguments which have been presented
by the opponents of this measure. I have replied also to some of the legal propositions advanced
by gentlemen on the other side; and now that I am about to conclude, I am deeply sensible of
the imperfect manner in which I have performed the task. Technically, this bill is to decide
upon the civil status of the colored American citizen; a point disputed at the very formation
of our present form of government, when by a short-sighted policy, a policy repugnant to true
republican government, one Negro counted as three-fifth of a man. The logical result of this
mistake of the framers of the Constitution strengthened the cancer of slavery, which finally
spread its poisonous tentacles over the southern portion of the body politic. To arrest its
growth and save the nation we have passed through the harrowing operation of intestine war,
dreaded at all times, resorted to at the last extremity, like the surgeon's knife, but absolutely
necessary to extirpate the disease which threatened with the life of the nation the overthrow
of civil and political liberty on this continent. In that dire extremity the members of the
race which I have the honor in part to represent--the race which pleads for justice at your
hands to-day,--forgetful of their inhuman and brutalizing servitude at the South, their degradation
and ostracism at the North, flew willingly and gallantly to the support of the national Government.

Their sufferings, assistance, privations, and trials in the swamps and in the rice-fields,
their valor on the land and on the sea, form a part of the ever-glorious record which makes
up the history of a nation preserved, and might, should I urge the claim, incline you to respect
and guarantee their rights and privileges as citizens of our common Republic. But I remember
that valor, devotion, and loyalty are not always rewarded according to their just deserts,
and that after the battle some who have borne the brunt of the fray may, through neglect or
contempt, be assigned to a subordinate place, while the enemies in war may be preferred to
the sufferers.

The results of the war, as seen in reconstruction, have settled forever the political status
of my race. The passage of this bill will determine the civil status, not only of the Negro,
but of any other class of citizens who may feel themselves discriminated against. It will form
the cap-stone of that temple of liberty, begun on this continent under discouraging circumstances,
carried on in spite of the sneers of monarchists and the cavils of pretended friends of freedom,
until at last it stands, in all its beautiful symmetry and proportions, a building the grandest
which the world has ever seen, realizing the most sanguine expectations and the highest hopes
of those who, in the name of equal, impartial, and universal liberty, laid the foundation-stone.

The Holy Scriptures tell us of an humble handmaiden who long, faithfully, and patiently gleaned
in the rich fields of her wealthy kinsman, and we are told further that at last, in spite of
her humble antecedents she found favor in his sight. For over two centuries our race has "reaped
down your fields," the cries and woes which we have uttered have "entered into the ears of
the Lord of Sabaoth" and we are at last politically free. The last vestiture only is needed--civil
rights.

CIVIL RIGHTS AND SOCIAL EQUALITY[9]

BY HON. JOHN R. LYNCH

[Note 9: A speech delivered in the House of Representatives, February 3, 1875.]

The House having under consideration the civil-rights bill, Mr. Lynch said:

Mr. Speaker:

I will now endeavor to answer the arguments of those who have been contending that the passage
of this bill is an effort to bring about social equality between the races. That the passage
of this bill can in any manner affect the social status of any one seems to me to be absurd
and ridiculous. I have never believed for a moment that social equality could be brought about
even between persons of the same race. I have always believed that social distinctions existed
among white people the same as among colored people. But those who contend that the passage
of this bill will have a tendency to bring about social equality between the races virtually
and substantially admit that there are no social distinctions among white people whatever,
but that all white persons, regardless of their moral character, are the social equals of each
other; for if by conferring upon colored people the same rights and privileges that are now
exercised and enjoyed by whites indiscriminately will result in bringing about social equality
between the races, then the same process of reasoning must necessarily bring us to the conclusion
that there are no social distinctions among whites, because all white persons, regardless of
their social standing, are permitted to enjoy these rights. See then how unreasonable, unjust,
and false is the assertion that social equality is involved in this legislation. I cannot believe
that gentlemen on the other side of the House mean what they say when they admit as they do
that the immoral, the ignorant, and the degraded of their own race are the social equals of
themselves and their families. If they do, then I can only assure them that they do not put
as high an estimate upon their own social standing as respectable and intelligent colored people
place upon theirs; for there are hundreds and thousands of white people of both sexes whom
I know to be the social inferiors of respectable and intelligent colored people. I can then
assure that portion of my Democratic friends on the other side of the House whom I regard as
my social inferiors that if at any time I should meet any one of you at a hotel and occupy
a seat at the same table with you, or the same seat in a car with you, do not think that I
have thereby accepted you as my social equal. Not at all. But if any one should attempt to
discriminate against you for no other reason than because you are identified with a particular
race or religious sect, I would regard it as an outrage; as a violation of the principles of
republicanism; and I would be in favor of protecting you in the exercise and enjoyment of your
rights by suitable and appropriate legislation.

No, Mr. Speaker, it is not social rights that we desire. We have enough of that already. What
we ask is protection in the enjoyment of public rights. Rights which are or should be accorded
to every citizen alike. Under our present system of race distinctions a white woman of a questionable
social standing, yea, I may say, of an admitted immoral character, can go to any public place
or upon any public conveyance and be the recipient of the same treatment, the same courtesy,
and the same respect that is usually accorded to the most refined and virtuous; but let an
intelligent, modest, refined colored lady present herself and ask that the same privileges
be accorded to her that have just been accorded to her social inferior of the white race, and
in nine cases out of ten, except in certain portions of the country, she will not only be refused,
but insulted for making the request.

Mr. Speaker, I ask the members of this House in all candor, is this right? I appeal to your
sensitive feelings as husbands, fathers, and brothers, is this just? You who have affectionate
companions, attractive daughters, and loving sisters, is this just? If you have any of the
ingredients of manhood in your composition you will answer the question most emphatically,
No! What a sad commentary upon our system of government, our religion, and our civilization!
Think of it for a moment; here am I, a member of your honorable body, representing one of the
largest and wealthiest districts in the State of Mississippi, and possibly in the South; a
district composed of persons of different races, religions, and nationalities and yet, when
I leave my home to come to the capital of the nation, to take part in the deliberations of
the House and to participate with you in making laws for the government of this great Republic,
in coming through the God-forsaken States of Kentucky and Tennessee, if I come by the way of
Louisville or Chattanooga, I am treated, not as an American citizen, but as a brute. Forced
to occupy a filthy smoking-car both night and day, with drunkards, gamblers, and criminals;
and for what? Not that I am unable or unwilling to pay my way; not that I am obnoxious in my
personal appearance or disrespectful in my conduct; but simply because I happen to be of a
darker complexion. If this treatment was confined to persons of our own sex we could possibly
afford to endure it. But such is not the case. Our wives and our daughters, our sisters and
our mothers, are subjected to the same insults and to the same uncivilized treatment. You may
ask why we do not institute civil suits in the State courts. What a farce! Talk about instituting
a civil-rights suit in the State courts of Kentucky, for instance, where decision of the judge
is virtually rendered before he enters the court-house, and the verdict of the jury substantially
rendered before it is impaneled. The only moments of my life when I am necessarily compelled
to question my loyalty to my Government or my devotion to the flag of my country is when I
read of outrages having been committed upon innocent colored people and the perpetrators go
unwhipped of justice, and when I leave my home to go traveling.

Mr. Speaker, if this unjust discrimination is to be longer tolerated by the American people,
which I do not, cannot, and will not believe until I am forced to do so, then I can only say
with sorrow and regret that our boasted civilization is a fraud; our republican institutions
a failure; our social system a disgrace; and our religion a complete hypocrisy. But I have
an abiding confidence--(though I must confess that that confidence was seriously shaken a little
over two months ago)--but still I have an abiding confidence in the patriotism of this people,
in their devotion to the cause of human rights, and in the stability of our republican institutions.
I hope that I will not be deceived. I love the land that gave me birth; I love the Stars and
Stripes. This country is where I intend to live, where I expect to die. To preserve the honor
of the national flag and to maintain perpetually the Union of the States hundreds, and I may
say thousands, of noble, brave, and true-hearted colored men have fought, bled, and died. And
now, Mr. Speaker, I ask, can it be possible that that flag under which they fought is to be
a shield and a protection to all races and classes of persons except the colored race? God forbid!

* * * * *

In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, I say to the Republican members of the House that the passage of
this bill is expected of you. If any of our Democratic friends will vote for it, we will be
agreeably surprised. But if Republicans should vote against it, we will be sorely disappointed;
it will be to us a source of deep mortification as well as profound regret. We will feel as
though we are deserted in the house of our friends. But I have no fears whatever in this respect.
You have stood by the colored people of this country when it was more unpopular to do so than
it is to pass this bill. You have fulfilled every promise thus far, and I have no reason to
believe that you will not fulfill this one. Then give us this bill. The white man's government
Negro-hating democracy will, in my judgment, soon pass out of existence. The progressive spirit
of the American people will not much longer tolerate the existence of an organization that
lives upon the passions and prejudices of the hour.

I appeal to all the members of the House--Republicans and Democrats, conservatives and liberals--to
join with us in the passage of this bill, which has its object the protection of human rights.
And when every man, woman, and child can feel and know that his, her, and their rights are
fully protected by the strong arm of a generous and grateful Republic, then we can all truthfully
say that this beautiful land of ours, over which the "Star-Spangled Banner" so triumphantly
waves, is, in truth and in fact, the "land of the free and the home of the brave."

ALEXANDER DUMAS, FILS[10]

The following public tribute was paid to his father by the younger Dumas on the occasion of
taking his seat in the French Academy (February 11, 1875).

[Note 10: From "The Life of A. Dumas," by Arthur E. Davidson, (p. 356).]

"The fact," said he, "that so many men superior to me have had to knock many times at your
door before it was opened to them would fill me with pride, did I not know the real reason
of your sympathy. In order to reach my place among you, gentlemen, I have employed magical
spells, I have used witchcraft. Standing on my own merits alone I should not have dared to
face your judgment, but I knew that a good genius--that is the right word--was fighting on
my behalf, and that you were determined to offer no defense. I have sheltered myself under
a name which you would have wished long ago to honor in itself, and which you are now able
to honor only in me. Believe me, gentlemen, it is with the greatest modesty that I come to-day
to accept a reward which has been so easily granted to me only because it was reserved for
another. I cannot--I may not--receive it except in trust; allow me then, at once and publicly,
to make restitution of it to the man who, unhappily, can no longer receive it himself. Thus
you will be granting me the highest honor which I can covet, and the only one to which I have
any real right."

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED AT THE CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY OF THE PENNSYLVANIA SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING
THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY[11]

BY JOHN MERCER LANGSTON

[Note 11: Philadelphia, Wednesday, April 14, 1875.]

Ladies and Gentlemen:

The history of this Association, owing to its objects and achievements, sweep in an interest
that is not confined to any class: an interest that is not confined to any people, and whose
scope and consequences cannot be foretold by human inspiration. It affects the emancipation
of a whole race; and in that it touches the progress and character of all who are brought in
contact with that race, the forms of government over the world and the world's progress in
all departments. There was a recent time in American history when no man, in all its length
and breadth, could read the Declaration of Independence and say that he possessed all of his
civil and political liberties. Garrison could not speak in New Orleans, nor could the silver-tongued
Phillips address an audience south of Mason and Dixon's line. Nor was it expedient for John
C. Calhoun to address his arguments in Independence Hall, or for Davis and Yulee and Mason
to propound theirs in Faneuil Hall. Speech was itself in thrall, and bound to the section in
which it found voice. When Garrison and Phillips had been invited to speak in Cincinnati, they
were counseled by their friends not to do so. There was danger that the mobs of Covington and
Cincinnati would assassinate them publicly; and it is notorious that the opposing arguments
that reached Washington from the North and from the South advanced no further in either direction.
This impugned and belied the very freedom declared in the Declaration and Constitution; and
made both the mockery of Europe. The contradiction is reconciled; the taunt is silenced; speech
is legally free and protected over all the Union, and the Pennsylvania Abolition Society has
done more than any other agency--more than all other agencies combined--to vitalize the Constitution
and give being to the Declaration. This society fought for the glowing assertion of all the
centuries: That men are born free and equal, and are endowed with inalienable right to life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. It kept the contrast between the declaration and its
practise in a clear light. It repeated the assertion and reasserted it. It argued the justice
with the very facts and reasons that had been presented to the Congress by whom the Declaration
was framed. Undisturbed by ridicule, unchecked by hostility, undaunted by persecution, it has
kept the law in the van of the fight; sustained it by reserves of humane reason; by appeals
to national strength and welfare, and growth, and influence, and wealth; it disseminated the
truth in churches, at the polls, in lyceums, by the press; it was unanswerable because its
claim was founded in equity, and recognized in religion, and had ineradicable place in the
great muniment of national being. It appealed to the individual conscience as well as to pride,
patriotism, piety, and interest, and it won, and now celebrates a victory immeasurably greater
than that of Yorktown or Waterloo or Marathon. Those were the victories of nation over nation,
or at the utmost of a principle of limited application. We celebrate the successful battle
of the grandest principle in human organization; that is confined to no race, limited to no
country, cramped by no restriction, but is as broad as the world, as applicable as humanity
itself and as enduring as time. The sentiment which elected Abraham Lincoln was contained in
an address delivered before the Pennsylvania Abolition Society by Benjamin Rush, one of its
earliest and most honored members. It was: "Freedom and slavery cannot long exist together!"

Ladies and Gentlemen of the Abolition Society, those who see the American citizens of African
descent one hundred years hence will be proud of them, and convinced that the great century
struggle that won their enfranchisement was worth infinitely more than it cost. We are now
leaving politics. We have gained through them the rights and opportunities they conferred,
that could be secured in no other way. We are devoting ourselves to learning and industry;
the attainment of wealth and manufacture of character. We shall never leave our home. There
are but two facts to be recognized. We are here. The white race is here. Both share the same
rights; make and obey the same laws; struggle for progress under the same conditions. The logical
conclusion of our birthright and of our proclaimed and perfected equality before the law is
that we shall remain, and remaining strive with equal advantages with our white fellow citizens
for our own good and the nation's welfare. After the close of the Civil War she went South
and worked as a teacher and lecturer, but later returned to Philadelphia, where she devoted
her time to lecturing and writing for the temperance cause, having charge, for a number of
years, of the W. C. T. U. work among Negroes. "Iola Leroy, or the Shadows Uplifted," is her
best-known work, besides which she published a number of small books of verses.

[Note 12: Philadelphia, Wednesday, April 14, 1875.]

Ladies and Gentlemen:

The great problem to be solved by the American people, if I understand it, is this: Whether
or not there is strength enough in democracy, virtue enough in our civilization, and power
enough in our religion to have mercy and deal justly with four millions of people but lately
translated from the old oligarchy of slavery to the new commonwealth of freedom; and upon the
right solution of this question depends in a large measure the future strength, progress, and
durability of our nation. The most important question before us colored people is not simply
what the Democratic party may do against us or the Republican party do for us; but what are
we going to do for ourselves? What shall we do towards developing our character, adding our
quota to the civilization and strength of the country, diversifying our industry, and practising
those lordly virtues that conquer success, and turn the world's dread laugh into admiring recognition?
The white race has yet work to do in making practical the political axiom of equal rights,
and the Christian idea of human brotherhood; but while I lift mine eyes to the future I would
not ungratefully ignore the past. One hundred years ago and Africa was the privileged hunting-ground
of Europe and America, and the flag of different nations hung a sign of death on the coasts
of Congo and Guinea, and for years unbroken silence had hung around the horrors of the African
slave-trade. Since then Great Britain and other nations have wiped the bloody traffic from
their hands, and shaken the gory merchandise from their fingers, and the brand of piracy has
been placed upon the African slave-trade. Less than fifty years ago mob violence belched out
its wrath against the men who dared to arraign the slaveholder before the bar of conscience
and Christendom. Instead of golden showers upon his head, he who garrisoned the front had a
halter around his neck. Since, if I may borrow the idea, the nation has caught the old inspiration
from his lips and written it in the new organic world. Less than twenty-five years ago slavery
clasped hands with King Cotton, and said slavery fights and cotton conquers for American slavery.
Since then slavery is dead, the colored man has exchanged the fetters on his wrist for the
ballot in his hand. Freedom is king, and Cotton a subject.

It may not seem to be a gracious thing to mingle complaint in a season of general rejoicing.
It may appear like the ancient Egyptians seating a corpse at their festal board to avenge the
Americans for their shortcomings when so much has been accomplished. And yet with all the victories
and triumphs which freedom and justice have won in this country, I do not believe there is
another civilized nation under Heaven where there are half so many people who have been brutally
and shamefully murdered, with or without impunity, as in this Republic within the last ten
years. And who cares? Where is the public opinion that has scorched with red-hot indignation
the cowardly murderers of Vicksburg and Louisiana? Sheridan lifts up the vail from Southern
society, and behind it is the smell of blood, and our bones scattered at the grave's mouth;
murdered people; a White League with its "covenant of death and agreement with hell." And who
cares? What city pauses one hour to drop a pitying tear over these mangled corpses, or has
forged against the perpetrator one thunderbolt of furious protest? But let there be a supposed
or real invasion of Southern rights by our soldiers, and our great commercial emporium will
rally its forces from the old man in his classic shades, to clasp hands with "dead rabbits"
and "plug-uglies" in protesting against military interference. What we need to-day in the onward
march of humanity is a public sentiment in favor of common justice and simple mercy. We have
a civilization which has produced grand and magnificent results, diffused knowledge, overthrown
slavery, made constant conquests over nature, and built up a wonderful material prosperity.
But two things are wanting in American civilization--a keener and deeper, broader and tenderer
sense of justice--a sense of humanity, which shall crystallize into the life of the nation
the sentiment that justice, simple justice, is the right, not simply of the strong and powerful,
but of the weakest and feeblest of all God's children; a deeper and broader humanity, which
will teach men to look upon their feeble brethren not as vermin to be crushed out, or beasts
of burden to be bridled and bitted, but as the children of the living God; of that God whom
we may earnestly hope is in perfect wisdom and in perfect love working for the best good of
all. Ethnologists may differ about the origin of the human race. Huxley may search for it in
protoplasms, and Darwin send for the missing links, but there is one thing of which we may
rest assured,--that we all come from the living God and that He is the common Father. The nation
that has no reverence for man is also lacking in reverence for God and needs to be instructed.

As fellow citizens, leaving out all humanitarian views--as a mere matter of political economy
it is better to have the colored race a living force animated and strengthened by self-reliance
and self-respect, than a stagnant mass, degraded and self-condemned. Instead of the North relaxing
its efforts to diffuse education in the South, it behooves us for our national life, to throw
into the South all the healthful reconstructing influences we can command. Our work in this
country is grandly constructive. Some races have come into this world and overthrown and destroyed.
But if it is glory to destroy, it is happiness to save; and Oh! what a noble work there is
before our nation! Where is there a young man who would consent to lead an aimless life when
there are such glorious opportunities before him? Before our young men is another battle--not
a battle of flashing swords and clashing steel--but a moral warfare, a battle against ignorance,
poverty, and low social condition. In physical warfare the keenest swords may be blunted and
the loudest batteries hushed; but in the great conflict of moral and spiritual progress your
weapons shall be brighter for their service and better for their use. In fighting truly and
nobly for others you win the victory for yourselves.

Give power and significance to your own life, and in the great work of upbuilding there is
room for woman's work and woman's heart. Oh, that our hearts were alive and our vision quickened,
to see the grandeur of the work that lies before. We have some culture among us, but I think
our culture lacks enthusiasm. We need a deep earnestness and a lofty unselfishness to round
out our lives. It is the inner life that develops the outer, and if we are in earnest the precious
things lie all around our feet, and we need not waste our strength in striving after the dim
and unattainable. Women, in your golden youth; mother, binding around your heart all the precious
ties of life,--let no magnificence of culture, or amplitude of fortune, or refinement of sensibilities,
repel you from helping the weaker and less favored. If you have ampler gifts, hold them as
larger opportunities with which you can benefit others. Oh, it is better to feel that the weaker
and feebler our race the closer we will cling to them, than it is to isolate ourselves from
them in selfish, or careless unconcern, saying there is a lion without. Inviting you to this
work I do not promise you fair sailing and unclouded skies. You may meet with coolness where
you expect sympathy; disappointment where you feel sure of success; isolation and loneliness
instead of heart-support and co-operation. But if your lives are based and built upon these
divine certitudes, which are the only enduring strength of humanity, then whatever defeat and
discomfiture may overshadow your plans or frustrate your schemes, for a life that is in harmony
with God and sympathy for man there is no such word as fail. And in conclusion, permit me to
say, let no misfortunes crush you; no hostility of enemies or failure of friends discourage
you. Apparent failure may hold in its rough shell the germs of a success that will blossom
in time, and bear fruit throughout eternity. What seemed to be a failure around the Cross of
Calvary and in the garden has been the grandest recorded success.

A MEMORIAL DISCOURSE[13]

BY REV. HENRY HIGHLAND GARNET

HENRY HIGHLAND GARNET, who at the time of the delivery of this speech was in charge of the
Fifteenth Street Presbyterian Church in Washington, D. C., was one of the foremost figures
in the great anti-slavery movement in New York. He was the first colored man to speak in the
National Capitol.

     Matthew xxiii-4.

[Note 13: Delivered in the Hall of the House of Representatives, Washington, D. C., at the
request of the Chaplain, Rev. William H. Channing.]

In this chapter, of which my text is a sentence, the Lord Jesus addressed his disciples, and
the multitude that hung spell-bound upon the words that fell from his lips. He admonished them
to beware of the religion of the Scribes and Pharisees, which was distinguished for great professions,
while it succeeded in urging them to do but a little, or nothing that accorded with the law
of righteousness.

In theory they were right; but their practices were inconsistent and wrong. They were learned
in the law of Moses, and in the traditions of their fathers, but the principles of righteousness
failed to affect their hearts. They knew their duty but did it not. The demands which they
made upon others proved that they themselves knew what things men ought to do. In condemning
others they pronounced themselves guilty. They demanded that others should be just, merciful,
pure, peaceable, and righteous. But they were unjust, impure, unmerciful--they hated and wronged
a portion of their fellowmen, and waged a continual war against the government of God.

* * * * *

Such was their conduct in the Church and in the State. We have modern Scribes and Pharisees,
who are faithful to their prototypes of ancient times.

With sincere respect and reverence for the instruction, and the warning given by our Lord,
and in humble dependence upon him for his assistance, I shall speak this morning of the Scribes
and Pharisees of our times who rule the State. In discharging this duty, I shall keep my eyes
upon the picture which is painted so faithfully and life-like by the hand of the Saviour.

Allow me to describe them. They are intelligent and well-informed, and can never say, either
before an earthly tribunal or at the bar of God, "We knew not of ourselves what was right."
They are acquainted with the principles of the law of nations. They are proficient in the knowledge
of Constitutional law. They are teachers of common law, and frame and execute statute law.
They acknowledge that there is a just and impartial God, and are not altogether unacquainted
with the law of Christian love and kindness. They claim for themselves the broadest freedom.
Boastfully they tell us that they have received from the court of heaven the Magna Charta of
human rights that was handed down through the clouds, and amid the lightnings of Sinai, and
given again by the Son of God on the Mount of Beatitudes, while the glory of the Father shone
around him. They tell us that from the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution they
have obtained a guaranty of their political freedom, and from the Bible they derive their claim
to all the blessings of religious liberty. With just pride they tell us that they are descended
from the Pilgrims, who threw themselves upon the bosom of the treacherous sea, and braved storms
and tempests, that they might find in a strange land, and among savages, free homes, where
they might build their altars that should blaze with acceptable sacrifice unto God. Yes! they
boast that their fathers heroically turned away from the precious light of Eastern civilization,
and taking their lamps with oil in their vessels, joyfully went forth to illuminate this land,
that then dwelt in the darkness of the valley of the shadow of death. With hearts strengthened
by faith they spread out their standard to the winds of heaven, near Plymouth rock; and whether
it was stiffened in the sleet and frosts of winter, or floated on the breeze of summer, it
ever bore the motto, "Freedom to worship God."

But others, their fellow-men, equal before the Almighty, and made by him of the same blood,
and glowing with immortality, they doom to life-long servitude and chains. Yes, they stand
in the most sacred places on earth, and beneath the gaze of the piercing eye of Jehovah, the
universal Father of all men, and declare, "that the best possible condition of the Negro is
slavery."

In the name of the Triune God I denounce the sentiment as unrighteous beyond measure, and the
holy and the just of the whole earth say in regard to it, Anathema-maranatha.

What is slavery? Too well do I know what it is. I will present to you a bird's-eye view of
it; and it shall be no fancy picture, but one that is sketched by painful experience. I was
born among the cherished institutions of slavery. My earliest recollections of parents, friends,
and the home of my childhood are clouded with its wrongs. The first sight that met my eyes
was a Christian mother enslaved by professed Christians, but, thank God, now a saint in heaven.
The first sounds that startled my ear, and sent a shudder through my soul, were the cracking
of the whip and the clanking of chains. These sad memories mar the beauties of my native shores,
and darken all the slave-land, which, but for the reign of despotism, had been a paradise.
But those shores are fairer now. The mists have left my native valleys, and the clouds have
rolled away from the hills, and Maryland, the unhonored grave of my fathers, is now the free
home of their liberated and happier children.

Let us view this demon, which the people have worshiped as a God. Come forth, thou grim monster,
that thou mayest be critically examined! There he stands. Behold him, one and all. Its work
is to chattelize man; to hold property in human beings. Great God! I would as soon attempt
to enslave Gabriel or Michael as to enslave a man made in the image of God, and for whom Christ
died. Slavery is snatching man from the high place to which he was lifted by the hand of God,
and dragging him down to the level of the brute creation, where he is made to be the companion
of the horse and the fellow of the ox.

It tears the crown of glory from his head, and as far as possible obliterates the image of
God that is in him. Slavery preys upon man, and man only. A brute cannot be made a slave. Why?
Because a brute has not reason, faith, nor an undying spirit, nor conscience. It does not look
forward to the future with joy or fear, nor reflect upon the past with satisfaction or regret.
But who in this vast assembly, who in all this broad land, will say that the poorest and most
unhappy brother in chains and servitude has not every one of these high endowments? Who denies
it? Is there one? If so, let him speak. There is not one; no, not one.

But slavery attempts to make a man a brute. It treats him as a beast. Its terrible work is
not finished until the ruined victim of its lusts, and pride, and avarice, and hatred, is reduced
so low that with tearful eyes and feeble voice he faintly cries, "I am happy and contented--I
love this condition."

    "Proud Nimrod first the bloody chase began,
    A mighty hunter he; his prey was man."

The caged lion may cease to roar, and try no longer the strength of the bars of his prison,
and lie with his head between his mighty paws and snuff the polluted air as though he heeded
not. But is he contented? Does he not instinctively long for the freedom of the forest and
the plain? Yes, he is a lion still. Our poor and forlorn brother whom thou hast labelled "slave,"
is also a man. He may be unfortunate, weak, helpless, and despised, and hated, nevertheless
he is a man. His God and thine has stamped on his forehead his title to his inalienable rights
in characters that can be read by every intelligent being. Pitiless storms of outrage may have
beaten upon his defenseless head and he may have descended through ages of oppression, yet
he is a man. God made him such, and his brother cannot unmake him. Woe, woe to him who attempts
to commit the accursed crime.

Slavery commenced its dreadful work in kidnapping unoffending men in a foreign and distant
land, and in piracy on the seas. The plunderers were not the followers of Mahomet, nor the
devotees of Hindooism, nor benighted pagans, nor idolaters, but people called Christians, and
thus the ruthless traders in the souls and bodies of men fastened upon Christianity a crime
and stain at the sight of which it shudders and shrieks.

It is guilty of the most heinous iniquities ever perpetrated upon helpless women and innocent
children. Go to the shores of the land of my forefathers, poor bleeding Africa, which, although
she has been bereaved, and robbed for centuries, is nevertheless beloved by all her worthy
descendants wherever dispersed. Behold a single scene that there meets your eyes. Turn not
away neither from shame, pity, nor indifference, but look and see the beginning of this cherished
and petted institution. Behold a hundred youthful mothers seated on the ground, dropping their
tears upon the hot sands, and filling the air with their lamentations.

Why do they weep? Ah, Lord God, thou knowest! Their babes have been torn from their bosoms
and cast upon the plains to die of hunger, or to be devoured by hyenas or jackals. The little
innocents would die on the "Middle Passage," or suffocate between the decks of the floating
slave-pen, freighted and packed with unparalleled human woe, and the slavers in mercy have
cast them out to perish on their native shores. Such is the beginning, and no less wicked is
the end of that system which Scribes and Pharisees in the Church and the State pronounce to
be just, humane, benevolent and Christian. If such are the deeds of mercy wrought by angels,
then tell me what works of iniquity there remain for devils to do?

* * * * *

It is the highly concentrated essence of all conceivable wickedness. Theft, robbery, pollution,
unbridled passion, incest, cruelty, cold-blooded murder, blasphemy, and defiance of the laws
of God. It teaches children to disregard parental authority. It tears down the marriage altar,
and tramples its sacred ashes under its feet. It creates and nourishes polygamy. It feeds and
pampers its hateful handmaid, prejudice.

It has divided our national councils. It has engendered deadly strife between brethren. It
has wasted the treasure of the Commonwealth, and the lives of thousands of brave men, and driven
troops of helpless women and children into yawning tombs. It has caused the bloodiest civil
war recorded in the book of time. It has shorn this nation of its locks of strength that was
rising as a young lion in the Western world. It has offered us as a sacrifice to the jealousy
and cupidity of tyrants, despots, and adventurers of foreign countries. It has opened a door
through which a usurper, a perjured, but a powerful prince, might stealthily enter and build
an empire on the golden borders of our southwestern frontier, and which is but a stepping-stone
to further and unlimited conquests on this continent. It has desolated the fairest portions
of our land, "until the wolf long since driven back by the march of civilization returns after
the lapse of a hundred years and howls amidst its ruins."

It seals up the Bible, and mutilates its sacred truths, and flies into the face of the Almighty,
and impiously asks, "Who art thou that I should obey thee?" Such are the outlines of this fearful
national sin; and yet the condition to which it reduces man, it is affirmed, is the best that
can possibly be devised for him.

When inconsistencies similar in character, and no more glaring, passed beneath the eye of the
Son of God, no wonder he broke forth in language of vehement denunciation. Ye Scribes, Pharisees,
and hypocrites! Ye blind guides!

Let us here take up the golden rule, and adopt the self-application mode of reasoning to those
who hold these erroneous views. Come, gird up thy loins and answer like a man, if thou canst.
Is slavery, as it is seen in its origin, continuance, and end the best possible condition for
thee? Oh, no! Wilt thou bear that burden on thy shoulders, which thou wouldest lay upon thy
fellow-man? No. Wilt thou bear a part of it, or remove a little of its weight with one of thy
fingers? The sharp and indignant answer is no, no! Then how, and when, and where, shall we
apply to thee the golden rule, which says, "Therefore all things that ye would that others
should do to you, do ye even so unto them, for this is the law and the prophets."

Let us have the testimony of the wise and great of ancient and modern times:

    "Sages who wrote and warriors who bled."

Plato declared that "Slavery is a system of complete injustice."

Socrates wrote that "Slavery is a system of outrage and robbery."

Cyrus said, "To fight in order not to be a slave is noble."

If Cyrus had lived in our land a few years ago he would have been arrested for using incendiary
language, and for inciting servile insurrection, and the royal fanatic would have been hanged
on a gallows higher than Haman. But every man is fanatical when his soul is warmed by the generous
fires of liberty. Is it then truly noble to fight in order not to be a slave? The Chief Magistrate
of the nation, and our rulers, and all truly patriotic men think so; and so think legions of
black men, who for a season were scorned and rejected, but who came quickly and cheerfully
when they were at last invited, bearing a heavy burden of proscriptions upon their shoulders,
and having faith in God, and in their generous fellow-countrymen, they went forth to fight
a double battle. The foes of their country were before them, while the enemies of freedom and
of their race surrounded them.

Augustine, Constantine, Ignatius, Polycarp, Maximus, and the most illustrious lights of the
ancient church denounced the sin of slave-holding.

Thomas Jefferson said at a period of his life, when his judgment was matured, and his experience
was ripe, "There is preparing, I hope, under the auspices of heaven, a way for a total emancipation."

The sainted Washington said, near the close of his moral career, and when the light of eternity
was beaming upon him, "It is among my first wishes to see some plan adopted by which slavery
in this country shall be abolished by law. I know of but one way by which this can be done,
and that is by legislative action, and so far as my vote can go, it shall not be wanting."

The other day, when the light of Liberty streamed through this marble pile, and the hearts
of the noble band of patriotic statesmen leaped for joy, and this our national capitol shook
from foundation to dome with the shouts of a ransomed people, then methinks the spirits of
Washington, Jefferson, the Jays, the Adamses, and Franklin, and Lafayette, and Giddings, and
Lovejoy, and those of all the mighty, and glorious dead, remembered by history, because they
were faithful to truth, justice, and liberty, were hovering over the august assembly. Though
unseen by mortal eyes, doubtless they joined the angelic choir, and said, Amen.

Pope Leo X. testifies, "That not only does the Christian religion, but nature herself, cry
out against a state of slavery."

Patrick Henry said, "We should transmit to posterity our abhorrence of slavery." So also thought
the Thirty-Eighth Congress.

Lafayette proclaimed these words: "Slavery is a dark spot on the face of the nation." God be
praised, that stain will soon be wiped out.

Jonathan Edwards declared "that to hold a man in slavery is to be every day guilty of robbery,
or of man stealing."

Rev. Dr. William Ellery Channing, in a Letter on the Annexation of Texas in 1837, writes as
follows: "The evil of slavery speaks for itself. To state is to condemn the institution. The
choice which every freeman makes of death for his child and for every thing he loves in preference
to slavery shows what it is. * * * "Every principle of our government and religion condemns
slavery. The spirit of our age condemns it. The decree of the civilized world has gone out
against it." The destroying angel has gone forth through this land to execute the fearful penalties
of God's broken law.

The representatives of the nation have bowed with reverence to the Divine edict, and laid the
axe at the root of the tree, and thus saved succeeding generations from the guilt of oppression,
and from the wrath of God.

Statesmen, jurists, and philosophers, most renowned for learning, and most profound in every
department of science and literature, have testified against slavery; while oratory has brought
its costliest, golden treasures, and laid them on the altar of God and of freedom, it has aimed
its fiercest lightning and loudest thunder at the strongholds of tyranny, injustice, and despotism.

From the days of Balak to those of Isaiah and Jeremiah, up to the times of Paul, and through
every age of the Christian Church, the sons of thunder have denounced the abominable thing.
The heroes who stood in the shining ranks of the hosts of the friends of human progress, from
Cicero to Chatham, and Burke, Sharp, Wilberforce, and Thomas Clarkson, and Curran, assaulted
the citadel of despotism. The orators and statesmen of our own land, whether they belong to
the past, or to the present age, will live and shine in the annals of history, in proportion
as they have dedicated their genius and talents to the defence of Justice and man's God-given
rights.

All the poets who live in sacred and profane history have charmed the world with their most
enchanting strains, when they have tuned their lyres to the praise of Liberty. When the muses
can no longer decorate her altars with their garlands, then they hang their harps upon the
willows and weep.

From Moses to Terence and Homer, from thence to Milton and Cowper, Thomson and Thomas Campbell,
and on to the days of our own bards, our Bryants, Longfellows, Whittiers, Morrises, and Bokers,
all have presented their best gifts to the interests and rights of man.

Every good principle, and every great and noble power, have been made the subjects of the inspired
verse, and the songs of poets. But who of them has attempted to immortalize slavery? You will
search in vain the annals of the world to find an instance. Should any attempt the sacrilegious
work, his genius would fall to the earth as if smitten by the lightning of heaven. Should he
lift his hand to write a line in its praise, or defence, the ink would freeze on the point
of his pen.

Could we array in one line, representatives of all the families of men, beginning with those
lowest in the scale of being, and should we put to them the question, Is it right and desirable
that you should be reduced to the condition of slaves, to be registered with chattels, to have
your persons, and your lives, and the products of your labor, subjected to the will and the
interests of others? Is it right and just that the persons of your wives and children should
be at the disposal of others, and be yielded to them for the purpose of pampering their lusts
and greed of gain? Is it right to lay heavy burdens on other men's shoulders which you would
not remove with one of your fingers? From the rude savage and barbarian the negative response
would come, increasing in power and significance as it rolled up the line. And when those should
reply, whose minds and hearts are illuminated with the highest civilization and with the spirit
of Christianity, the answer deep-toned and prolonged would thunder forth, no, no!

With all the moral attributes of God on our side, cheered as we are by the voices of universal
human nature,--in view of the best interests of the present and future generations--animated
with the noble desire to furnish the nations of the earth with a worthy example, let the verdict
of death which has been brought in against slavery, by the Thirty-Eighth Congress, be affirmed
and executed by the people. Let the gigantic monster perish. Yes, perish now, and perish forever!

It is often asked when and where will the demands of the reformers of this and coming ages
end? It is a fair question, and I will answer.

When all unjust and heavy burdens shall be removed from every man in the land. When all invidious
and proscriptive distinctions shall be blotted out from our laws, whether they be constitutional,
statute, or municipal laws. When emancipation shall be followed by enfranchisement, and all
men holding allegiance to the government shall enjoy every right of American citizenship. When
our brave and gallant soldiers shall have justice done unto them. When the men who endure the
sufferings and perils of the battle-field in the defence of their country, and in order to
keep our rulers in their places, shall enjoy the well-earned privilege of voting for them.
When in the army and navy, and in every legitimate and honorable occupation, promotion shall
smile upon merit without the slightest regard to the complexion of a man's face. When there
shall be no more class-legislation, and no more trouble concerning the black man and his rights,
than there is in regard to other American citizens. When, in every respect, he shall be equal
before the law, and shall be left to make his own way in the social walks of life.

We ask, and only ask, that when our poor frail barks are launched on life's ocean--

    "Bound on a voyage of awful length
      And dangers little known,"

that, in common with others, we may be furnished with rudder, helm, and sails, and charts,
and compass. Give us good pilots to conduct us to the open seas; lift no false lights along
the dangerous coasts, and if it shall please God to send us propitious winds, or fearful gales,
we shall survive or perish as our energies or neglect shall determine. We ask no special favors,
but we plead for justice. While we scorn unmanly dependence; in the name of God, the universal
Father, we demand the right to live, and labor, and to enjoy the fruits of our toil. The good
work which God has assigned for the ages to come, will be finished, when our national literature
shall be so purified as to reflect a faithful and a just light upon the character and social
habits of our race, and the brush, and pencil, and chisel, and lyre of art, shall refuse to
lend their aid to scoff at the afflictions of the poor, or to caricature, or ridicule a long-suffering
people. When caste and prejudice in Christian churches shall be utterly destroyed, and shall
be regarded as totally unworthy of Christians, and at variance with the principles of the gospel.
When the blessings of the Christian religion, and of sound, religious education, shall be freely
offered to all, then, and not till then, shall the effectual labors of God's people and God's
instruments cease.

If slavery has been destroyed merely from necessity, let every class be enfranchised at the
dictation of justice. Then we shall have a Constitution that shall be reverenced by all: rulers
who shall be honored, and revered, and a Union that shall be sincerely loved by a brave and
patriotic people, and which can never be severed.

Great sacrifices have been made by the people; yet, greater still are demanded ere atonement
can be made for our national sins. Eternal justice holds heavy mortgages against us, and will
require the payment of the last farthing. We have involved ourselves in the sin of unrighteous
gain, stimulated by luxury, and pride, and the love of power and oppression; and prosperity
and peace can be purchased only by blood, and with tears of repentance. We have paid some of
the fearful installments, but there are other heavy obligations to be met.

The great day of the nation's judgment has come, and who shall be able to stand? Even we, whose
ancestors have suffered the afflictions which are inseparable from a condition of slavery,
for the period of two centuries and a half, now pity our land and weep with those who weep.

Upon the total and complete destruction of this accursed sin depends the safety and perpetuity
of our Republic and its excellent institutions.

Let slavery die. It has had a long and fair trial. God himself has pleaded against it. The
enlightened nations of the earth have condemned it. Its death warrant is signed by God and
man. Do not commute its sentence. Give it no respite, but let it be ignominiously executed.

Honorable Senators and Representatives! Illustrious rulers of this great nation! I cannot refrain
this day from invoking upon you, in God's name, the blessings of millions who were ready to
perish, but to whom a new and better life has been opened by your humanity, justice, and patriotism.
You have said, "Let the Constitution of the country be so amended that slavery and involuntary
servitude shall no longer exist in the United States, except in punishment for crime." Surely,
an act so sublime could not escape Divine notice; and doubtless the deed has been recorded
in the archives of heaven. Volumes may be appropriated to your praise and renown in the history
of the world. Genius and art may perpetuate the glorious act on canvass and in marble, but
certain and more lasting monuments in commemoration of your decision are already erected in
the hearts and memories of a grateful people.

The nation has begun its exodus from worse than Egyptian bondage; and I beseech you that you
say to the people, "that they go forward." With the assurance of God's favor in all things
done in obedience to his righteous will, and guided by day and by night by the pillars of cloud
and fire, let us not pause until we have reached the other and safe side of the stormy and
crimson sea. Let freemen and patriots mete out complete and equal justice to all men, and thus
prove to mankind the superiority of our Democratic, Republican Government.

Favored men, and honored of God as his instruments, speedily finish the work which he has given
you to do. Emancipate, enfranchise, educate, and give the blessings of the gospel to every
American citizen.

Then before us a path of prosperity will open, and upon us will descend the mercies and favors
of God. Then shall the people of other countries, who are standing tip-toe on the shores of
every ocean, earnestly looking to see the end of this amazing conflict, behold a Republic that
is sufficiently strong to outlive the ruin and desolations of civil war, having the magnanimity
to do justice to the poorest and weakest of her citizens. Thus shall we give to the world the
form of a model Republic, founded on the principles of justice, and humanity, and Christianity,
in which the burdens of war and the blessings of peace are equally borne and enjoyed by all.

CRISPUS ATTUCKS[14]

BY GEORGE L. RUFFIN

GEORGE L. RUFFIN (1834-1885) the first Negro judge to be appointed in Massachusetts, graduated
in Law from Harvard, 1869. He served in the legislature of Massachusetts two terms, and in
the Boston Council two terms.

[Note 14: Extracts from an address delivered before the Banneker Literary Club, of Boston,
Mass., on the occasion of the commemoration of the "Boston Massacre," March 7, 1876.]

The fifth of March, 1770, had been a cold day, and a slight fall of snow had covered the ground,
but at nine o'clock at night it was clear and cold, not a cloud to be seen in the sky, and
the moon was shining brightly. A British guard was patrolling the streets with clanking swords
and overbearing swagger. A sentry was stationed in Dock Square. A party of young men, four
in number, came out of a house in Cornhill. One of the soldiers was whirling his sword about
his head, striking fire with it; the sentry challenged one of the four young men; there was
no good blood between them, and it took but little to start a disturbance. An apprentice boy
cried out to one of the guards, "You haven't paid my master for dressing your hair!" A soldier
said, "Where are the d---- d Yankee boogers, I'll kill them!" A boy's head was split, there
was more quarrelling between the young men and the guard, great noise and confusion; a vast
concourse of excited people soon collected; cries of "Kill them!" "Drive them out!" "They have
no business here!" were heard; some citizens were knocked down, as also were some soldiers.
Generally speaking, the soldiers got the worst of it; they were reinforced, but steadily the
infuriated citizens drove them back until they were forced to take refuge in the Custom-House,
upon the steps of which they were pelted with snowballs and pieces of ice.

By this time the whole town was aroused; exaggerated accounts of the event in Dock Square flew
like wild-fire all over the settlement; the people turned out en masse in the streets and,
to add to the general din, the bells of the town were rung. The regiment which held the town
at that time was the 29th. Captain Preston seemed to have been in command. He was sent for,
went to the Custom-House, learned what had occurred, and at once put troops in motion. On they
came up King Street, now State Street, with fixed bayonets, clearing everything before them
as they came. They had nearly reached the head of King Street, when they met with opposition.
A body of citizens had been formed nearby, and came pushing violently through the street then
called Cornhill, around into King Street. They were armed only with clubs, sticks, and pieces
of ice, but on they came. Nothing daunted, they went up to the points of the soldiers' bayonets.
The long pent-up feeling of resentment against a foreign soldiery was finding a vent. This
was the time and the opportunity to teach tyrants that freemen can at least strike back, though
for the time they strike in vain.

At the head of this body of citizens was a stalwart colored man, Crispus Attucks. He was the
leading spirit of their body, and their spokesman. They pressed the British sorely on all sides,
making the best use of their rude arms, crying, "They dare not strike!" "Let us drive them
out!" The soldiers stood firm; the reach of their long bayonets protected them from any serious
injury for a while.

From time to time Attucks' voice could be heard urging his companions on. At that time some
one gave the order to fire. Captain Preston said he did not; at any rate the order was given.
The soldiers fired. It was a death dealing volley. Of the citizens three lay dead, two mortally
wounded, and a number more or less injured. Crispus Attucks, James Caldwell, and Samuel Gray
were killed outright. Attucks fell, his face to the foe, with two bullets in his breast.

That night closed an eventful day. The first martyr-blood had reddened the streets of Boston,
and the commencement of the downfall of British rule in America had set in. Said Daniel Webster,
"From that moment we may date the severance of the British Empire. The patriotic fires kindled
in the breasts of those earnest and true men, upon whose necks the British yoke never sat easily,
never were quenched after that massacre, until the invader had been driven from the land and
independence had been achieved. The sight of the blood of their comrades in King Street quickened
their impulses, and hastened the day for a more general outbreak, which we now call the Revolutionary
War." This was no mob, as some have been disposed to call it. They had not the low and groveling
spirit which usually incites mobs. This was resistance to tyranny; this was striking for homes
and firesides; this was the noblest work which a patriot can ever perform. As well call Lexington
a mob and Bunker Hill a mob. I prefer to call this skirmish in King Street on the 5th of March,
1770, as Anson Burlingame called it, "The dawn of the Revolution."

About that time the American people set out to found a government to be dedicated to Freedom,
which was to remain an asylum to the oppressed of all lands forever. The central idea of this
government was to be Liberty, and a declaration was made by them to the world that all men
are created free and equal, and have the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
This was the government to be established in the land which had been fought for and won in
the sacrifice of the blood of both black and white men. Did they do it? Did they intend to
do it? Did they believe in and intend to carry out this magnificent declaration of principles--a
declaration which startled the crowned heads of Europe and sent a thrill of delight to the
hearts of the lovers of liberty through Christendom? No, they did not do it, neither did they
intend to do it! This manifesto of July 4, 1776, was a fraud and a deception; it was the boldest
falsification known to history; it was a sham and a lie. Instead of establishing freedom, they
built, fostered and perpetuated slavery; instead of equality, they gave us inequality; instead
of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, they gave us death, bondage, and misery; instead
of rearing on these shores a beautiful temple to Liberty, they made a foul den for slavery;
and this country, which should have been the garden-spot of the world, covered with a prosperous
and happy population of freemen, was, under the guidance of traitors to Liberty, made the prison-house
of slaves, and betrayed in the house of her friends. The Goddess of Liberty, for nearly one
hundred years after the establishment of our Government, sat in chains.

Attucks was in feelings, sympathies, and in all other respects, essentially an American, and
so were the other colored patriots of the Revolution, and why shouldn't they be? They were
born and bred here, and knew no other country; as was true of their fathers. They had been
here as long as the Puritans. They came here the same year, 1620; in fact, had been here a
little longer, for while Plymouth Rock was only reached in December of that year, the blacks
were at Jamestown in the early spring. In every difficulty with the mother country, the colored
men took sides with the colonists, and on every battle-field, when danger was to be met, they
were found shoulder to shoulder with the rest of the Republicans, sharing the burden of war.
At Lexington, where the farmers hastily seized their muskets and gathered on the plain, and
at the bridge, to resist with the sacrifice of their lives the approach of the British forces,
Prince Estabrook, "Negro man" as the Salem Gazette of that day called him, rallied with his
neighbors and comrades in arms, and fell on the field, a wounded man, fighting the foe. He,
like Attucks, was both of and with the people. Their cause was his cause, their home was his
home, their fight was his fight. At Bunker Hill, a few months later, we know there was a goodly
number of colored men; history has saved to us the names of some of them; how many there were
whose names were not recorded, of course, we cannot now tell. Andover sent Tites Coburn, Alexander
Ames, and Barzilai Low; Plymouth sent Cato Howe, and Peter Salem immortalized his name by leveling
the piece in that battle which laid low Major Pitcairn. It is fair to presume that other towns,
like Andover, sent in the ranks of their volunteers colored Americans. In the town of Raynham,
within forty miles of Boston, there is now a settlement of colored people who have been there
for three or four generations, the founder of which, Toby Gilmore, was an old Revolutionary
veteran who had served his country faithfully. Stoughton Corner contributed Quack Matrick to
the ranks of the Revolutionary soldiers; Lancaster sent Job Lewis, East Bridgewater Prince
Richards. So did many other towns and States in this Commonwealth. Rhode Island raised a regiment
which did signal service at Red Bank in completely routing the Hessian force under Colonel
Donop, but it was not in distinctively colored regiments or companies that colored men chiefly
fought in the Revolution; it was in the ranks of any and all regiments, and by the side of
their white companions in arms they were mainly to be found.

Attucks was born not a great way from Boston, at Farmingham, where his brothers and sisters
lived for a long time. At some time during his life he was a slave; whether he was a slave
at the time of the occurrence of the events I am now relating is not so clear. One of the witnesses
at the trial of the soldiers testified that Attucks "belonged to New Providence, and was here
on his way to North Carolina." I am inclined to think that at this time, in 1770, he was in
the possession of his liberty, having got it in the same manner that very many slaves since
obtained their freedom, by giving "leg-bail." Nearly twenty years before he had run away from
his master, as appears from an advertisement in the Boston Gazette of November 20, 1750. From
this advertisement it would appear that at the time of the engagement in King Street, Attucks
was about 47 years of age, a powerful man, and an ugly foe to encounter. Twenty years of freedom,
and moving from one part of the country to the other as far away as North Carolina, must have
enlarged his views and given him the spirit of a free man. That he partook of the spirit which
animated those of his countrymen who would throw off the British yoke is shown by the language
used by him on this memorable occasion. "Let us drive out the rebels; they have no business
here!" said he, and they re-echoed them. These words are full of meaning; they tell the story
of the Revolution.

One hundred and six years have passed away. King Street and Royal Exchange Lane have lost their
names. Cornhill has lost its identity. The King's collectors no longer gather at the Custom-House,
and epauletted British officers no longer lounge away winter evenings in the reading-room of
Concert Hall; that once stately pile is no more. One hundred and six years ago, George the
Third was king, and these colonies were British dependencies. Since that time marvelous changes
have been made in the world's history. Probably never before have so many and so great changes
taken place in the same space of time. Slavery then existed in Massachusetts, as it did in
the other colonies. It grew to huge proportions, and dominated all other interests in the land,
and for years brought shame and disgrace upon us.

But our country now stands redeemed, disenthralled. The promises of 1776 are now realized.
The immortal heroes of that age did not die in vain. We have now, thanks to the Author of All
Good, a free country, a Republic of imperial proportions, a domain as extensive and a government
as powerful as that of the nations of antiquity, or of the present time, and better than all
over all this broad land there does not walk a slave. In this centennial anniversary of the
nation's existence it is quite in order to suggest, and I do suggest that a monument be erected
to the memory of the first martyr of the Revolution--Crispus Attucks.

ORATION ON THE OCCASION OF THE UNVEILING OF FREEDMEN'S MONUMENT[15]

BY FREDERICK DOUGLASS

[Note 15: Oration delivered by Frederick Douglass on the occasion of the unveiling of the Freedmen's
Monument, in memory of Abraham Lincoln, in Lincoln Park, Washington, D. C., April 14, 1876.]

Friends and Fellow Citizens:

I warmly congratulate you upon the highly interesting object which has caused you to assemble
in such numbers and spirit as you have to-day. This occasion is, in some respects, remarkable.
Wise and thoughtful men of our race, who shall come after us and study the lesson of our history
in the United States; who shall survey the long and dreary spaces over which we have traveled;
who shall count the links in the great chain of events by which we have reached our present
position, will make a note of this occasion; they will think of it and speak of it with a sense
of manly pride and complacency.

I congratulate you, also, upon the very favorable circumstances in which we meet to-day. They
are high, inspiring, and uncommon. They lend grace, glory, and significance to the object for
which we have met. Nowhere else in this great country, with its uncounted towns and cities,
unlimited wealth, and immeasurable territory extending from sea to sea, could conditions be
found more favorable to the success of this occasion than at this place.

We stand to-day at the national center to perform something like a national act--an act which
is to go into history; and we are here where every pulsation of the national heart can be heard,
felt, and reciprocated. A thousand wires, fed with thought and winged with lightning, put us
in instantaneous communication with the loyal and true men over this country.

Few facts could better illustrate the vast and wonderful change which has taken place in our
condition as a people than the fact of our assembling here for the purpose we have to-day.
Harmless, beautiful, proper, and praiseworthy as this demonstration is, I cannot forget that
no such demonstration would have been tolerated here twenty years ago. The spirit of slavery
and barbarism, which still lingers to blight and destroy in some dark and distant parts of
our country, would have made our assembling here the signal and excuse for opening upon us
the flood-gates of wrath and violence. That we are here in peace to-day is a compliment and
a credit to American civilization, and a prophecy of still greater enlightenment and progress
in the future. I refer to the past, not in malice, but simply to place more distinctly in front
the gratifying and glorious change which has come both to our white fellow citizens and ourselves,
and to congratulate all upon the contrast between now and then; the new dispensation of freedom
with its thousand blessings to both races, and the old dispensation of slavery with its ten
thousand evils to both races--white and black. In view, then, of the past, the present, and
the future, with the long and dark history of our bondage behind us, and with liberty, progress,
and enlightenment before us, I again congratulate you upon this auspicious day and hour.

Friends and fellow citizens, the story of our presence here is soon and easily told. We are
here in the District of Columbia, here in the City of Washington, the most luminous point of
American territory, a city recently transformed and made beautiful in its body and in its spirit;
we are here, in the place where the ablest and best men of the country are sent to devise the
policy, enact the laws, and shape the destiny of the Republic; we are here, with the stately
pillars and majestic dome of the Capitol of the nation looking down upon us; we are here, with
the broad earth freshly adorned with the foliage and flowers of spring for our church, and
all races, colors, and conditions of men for our congregation--in a word, we are here to express,
as best we may, by appropriate forms and ceremonies, our grateful sense of the vast, high,
and pre-eminent services rendered to ourselves, to our race, to our country, and to the whole
world by Abraham Lincoln.

The sentiment that brings us here to-day is one of the noblest that can stir and thrill the
human heart. It has crowned and made glorious the high places of all civilized nations with
the grandest and most enduring works of art, designed to illustrate the characters and perpetuate
the memories of great public men. It is the sentiment, which from year to year adorns with
fragrant and beautiful flowers the graves of our loyal, brave, and patriotic soldiers who fell
in defense of the Union and Liberty. It is the sentiment of gratitude and appreciation, which
often, in the presence of many who hear me, has filled yonder heights of Arlington with the
eloquence of eulogy and the sublime enthusiasm of poetry and song; a sentiment which can never
die while the Republic lives.

For the first time in the history of our people, and in the history of the whole American people,
we join in this high worship, and march conspicuously in the line of this time-honored custom.
First things are always interesting, and this is one of our first things. It is the first time
that, in this form and manner, we have sought to do honor to an American great man, however
deserving and illustrious. I commend the fact to notice; let it be told in every part of the
Republic; let men of all parties and opinions hear it; let those who despise us, not less than
those who respect us, know that now and here, in the spirit of liberty, loyalty, and gratitude,
let it be known everywhere, and by everybody who takes an interest in human progress and in
the amelioration of the condition of mankind, that, in the presence and with the approval of
the members of the American House of Representatives, reflecting the general sentiment of the
country; that in the presence of that august body, the American Senate, representing the highest
intelligence and the calmest judgment in the country; in the presence of the Supreme Court
and Chief Justice of the United States, to whose decisions we all patriotically bow; in the
presence and under the steady eye of the honored and trusted President of the United States,
with the members of his wise and patriotic Cabinet, we, the colored people, newly emancipated
and rejoicing in our blood-bought freedom, near the close of the first century in the life
of this Republic, have now and here unveiled, set apart, and dedicated a monument of enduring
granite and bronze, in every line, feature, and figure of which the men of this generation
may read, and those of after-coming generations may read, something of the exalted character
and great works of Abraham Lincoln, the first martyr President of the United States.

Fellow citizens, in what we have said and done today, and in what we may say and do hereafter,
we disclaim everything like arrogance and assumption. We claim for ourselves no superior devotion
to the character, history, and memory of the illustrious name whose monument we have here dedicated
to-day. We fully comprehend the relations of Abraham Lincoln, both to ourselves and to the
white people of the United States. Truth is proper and beautiful at all times and in all places,
and it is never more proper and beautiful in any case than when speaking of a great public
man whose example is likely to be commended for honor and imitation long after his departure
to the solemn shades--the silent continents of eternity. It must be admitted, truth compels
me to admit, even here in the presence of the monument we have erected to his memory, Abraham
Lincoln was not, in the fullest sense of the word, either our man or our model. In his interests,
in his associations, in his habits of thought, and in his prejudices, he was a white man.

He was pre-eminently the white man's President, entirely devoted to the welfare of the white
man. He was ready and willing at any time during the first years of his administration to deny,
postpone, and sacrifice the rights of humanity in the colored people to promote the welfare
of the white people of this country. In all his education and feeling he was an American of
the Americans. He came into the Presidential chair upon one principle alone, namely, opposition
to the extension of slavery. His arguments in furtherance of this policy had their motive and
mainspring in his patriotic devotion to the interests of his own race. To protect, defend,
and perpetuate slavery in the States where it existed Abraham Lincoln was not less ready than
any other President to draw the sword of the nation. He was ready to execute all the supposed
constitutional guarantees of the United States Constitution in favor of the slave system anywhere
inside of the slave States. He was willing to pursue, re-capture, and send back the fugitive
slave to his master, and to suppress a slave rising for liberty, though his guilty master were
already in arms against the Government. The race to which we belong was not the special object
of his consideration. Knowing this, I concede to you, my white fellow citizens, a pre-eminence
in this worship at once full and supreme. First, midst, and last, you and yours were the objects
of his deepest affection and his most earnest solicitude. You are the children of Abraham Lincoln.
We are at best, only his step-children; children by adoption, children by force of circumstances
and necessity. To you it especially belongs to sound his praises, to preserve and perpetuate
his memory, to multiply his statues, to hang his pictures high upon your walls, and commend
his example, for to you he was a great and glorious friend and benefactor. Instead of supplanting
you at this altar, we would exhort you to build high his monuments; let them be of the most
costly material, of the most cunning workmanship; let their forms be symmetrical, beautiful,
and perfect; let their bases be upon solid rocks, and their summits lean against the unchanging
blue, overhanging sky, and let them endure forever! But while, in the abundance of your wealth,
and in the fullness of your just and patriotic devotion, you do all this, we entreat you to
despise not the humble offering we this day unveil to view; for while Abraham Lincoln saved
for you a country, he delivered us from a bondage, according to Jefferson, one hour of which
was worse than ages of the oppression your fathers rose in rebellion to oppose.

Fellow citizens, ours is no new-born zeal and devotion--merely a thing of the moment. The name
of Abraham Lincoln was near and dear to our hearts in the darkest and most perilous hours of
the Republic. We were no more ashamed of him when shrouded in clouds of darkness, of doubt
and defeat, than when we saw him crowned with victory, honor, and glory. Our faith in him was
often taxed and strained to the uttermost, but it never failed. When he tarried long in the
mountains; when he strangely told us that we were the cause of the war; when he still more
strangely told us to leave the land in which we were born; when he refused to employ our arms
in defense of the Union; when, after accepting our services as colored soldiers, he refused
to retaliate our murder and torture as colored prisoners; when he told us he would save the
Union, if he could, with slavery; when he revoked the Proclamation of Emancipation of General
Fremont; when he refused to remove the popular Commander of the Army of the Potomac, in the
days of its inaction and defeat, who was more zealous in his efforts to protect slavery than
to suppress rebellion; when we saw all this and more, we were at times grieved, stunned, and
greatly bewildered, but our hearts believed, while they ached and bled. Nor was this, at that
time, a blind and unreasoning superstition. Despite the mist and haze that surround him; despite
the tumult, the hurry, and confusion of the hour, we were able to take a comprehensive view
of Abraham Lincoln, and to make reasonable allowance for the circumstances of his position.
We saw him, measured him, and estimated him; not by stray utterances to injudicious and tedious
delegations, who often tried his patience; not by isolated facts, torn from their connection;
not by partial and imperfect glimpses caught at inopportune moments; but by a broad survey,
in the light of the stern logic of great events, and in view of that divinity which "shapes
our ends, rough hew them as we will," we came to the conclusion that the hour and the man of
our redemption had somehow met in the person of Abraham Lincoln. It mattered little to us what
language he might employ on special occasions; it mattered little to us when we fully knew
him, whether he was swift or slow in his movements; it was enough for us that Abraham Lincoln
was at the head of a great movement, and was in living and earnest sympathy with that movement,
which, in the nature of things, must go on until slavery should be utterly and forever abolished
in the United States.

When, therefore, it shall be asked what we have to do with the memory of Abraham Lincoln, or
what Abraham Lincoln had to do with us, the answer is ready, full, and complete. Though he
loved Cæsar less than Rome, though the Union was more to him than our freedom or our future,
under his wise and beneficent rule, and by measures approved and vigorously pressed by him,
we saw that the handwriting of ages, in the form of prejudice and proscription, was rapidly
fading away from the face of our whole country; under his rule, and in due time, about as soon,
after all, as the country could tolerate the strange spectacle, we saw our brave sons and brothers
laying off the rags of bondage, and being clothed all over in the blue uniforms of the soldiers
of the United States; under his rule, we saw two hundred thousand of our dark and dusky people
responding to the call of Abraham Lincoln, and with muskets on their shoulders, and eagles
on their buttons, timing their high footsteps to liberty and union under the national flag;
under his rule, we saw the independence of the black Republic of Haiti, the special object
of slave-holding aversion and horror, fully recognized, and her minister, a colored gentleman,
duly received here in the City of Washington; under his rule, we saw the internal slave-trade,
which so long disgraced the nation, abolished, and slavery abolished in the District of Columbia;
under his rule, we saw, for the first time, the law enforced against the foreign slave-trade,
and the first slave-trader hanged like any other pirate or murderer; under his rule, assisted
by the greatest captain of our age, and his inspiration, we saw the Confederate States, based
upon the idea that our race must be slaves, and slaves forever, battered to pieces and scattered
to the four winds; under his rule, and in the fullness of time, we saw Abraham Lincoln, after
giving the slave-holders three months' grace in which to save their hateful slave system, penning
the immortal paper, which, though special in its language, was general in its principles and
effect, making slavery forever impossible in the United States. Though we waited long, we saw
all this and more.

Can any colored man, or any white man friendly to the freedom of all men, ever forget the night
which followed the first day of January, 1863, when the world was to see if Abraham Lincoln
would prove to be as good as his word? I shall never forget that memorable night, when in a
distant city, I waited and watched at a public meeting, with three thousand others not less
anxious than myself, for the word of deliverance which we have heard read to-day. Nor shall
I ever forget the outburst of joy and thanksgiving that rent the air when the lightning brought
to us the Emancipation Proclamation. In that happy hour we forgot all delay, and forgot all
tardiness, forgot that the President had bribed the rebels to lay down their arms by a promise
to withhold the bolt that should smite the slave-system with destruction; and we were thenceforward
willing to allow the President all the latitude of time, phraseology, and every honorable device
that statesmanship might require for the achievement of a great and beneficent measure of liberty
and progress.

Fellow citizens, there is little necessity on this occasion to speak at length and critically
of this great and good man, and of his high mission in the world. That ground has been fully
occupied and completely covered both here and elsewhere. The whole field of fact and fancy
has been gleaned and garnered. Any man can say things that are true of Abraham Lincoln, but
no man can say anything that is new of Abraham Lincoln. His personal traits and public acts
are better known to the American people than are those of any other man of his age. He was
a mystery to no man who saw and heard him. Though high in position, the humblest could approach
him and feel at home in his presence. Though deep, he was transparent; though strong, he was
gentle; though decided and pronounced in his convictions, he was tolerant towards those who
differed from him, and patient under reproaches. Even those who only knew him through his public
utterances obtained a tolerably clear idea of his character and personality. The image of the
man went out with his words, and those who read them knew him.

I have said that President Lincoln was a white man and shared the prejudices common to his
countrymen towards the colored race. Looking back to his times and to the condition of his
country, we are compelled to admit that this unfriendly feeling on his part may safely be set
down as one element of his wonderful success in organizing the loyal American people for the
tremendous conflict before them, and bringing them safely through that conflict. His great
mission was to accomplish two things: first, to save his country from dismemberment and ruin;
and secondly, to free his country from the great crime of slavery. To do one or the other,
or both, he must have the earnest sympathy and the powerful co-operation of his loyal fellow
countrymen. Without this primary and essential condition to success his efforts must have been
vain and utterly fruitless. Had he put the abolition of slavery before the salvation of the
Union, he would have inevitably driven from him a powerful class of American people and rendered
resistance to rebellion impossible. Viewed from the genuine abolition ground, Mr. Lincoln seemed
tardy, cold, dull, and indifferent; but measuring him by the sentiment of his country, a sentiment
he was bound as a statesman to consult, he was swift, zealous, radical, and determined. He
was willing, while the South was loyal, that it should have its pound of flesh, because he
thought it was so nominated in the bond; but farther than this, no earthly power could make
him go. In the realm of mind, as well as in the realm of matter, it is a great worker, and
often works wonders. The honest and comprehensive statesman, clearly discerning the needs of
his country, and earnestly endeavoring to do his whole duty, though covered and blistered with
reproaches, may safely leave his course to the silent judgment of time. Few great public men
have ever been the victims of fiercer denunciation than Abraham Lincoln was during his administration.
He was often wounded in the house of his friends. Reproaches came thick and fast from within
and from without, and from opposite quarters. He was assailed by abolitionists; he was assailed
by slave-holders; he was assailed by the men who were for peace at any price; he was assailed
by those who were for a more vigorous prosecution of the way; he was assailed for not making
the war an abolition war; and he was most bitterly assailed for making the war an abolition war.

But now behold the change; the judgment of the present hour is, that taking him for all in
all, measuring the tremendous magnitude of the work before him, considering the necessary means
to ends, and surveying the end from the beginning, infinite wisdom has seldom sent any man
into the world better fitted for his mission than Abraham Lincoln. His birth, his training,
and his natural endowments, both mental and physical, were strongly in his favor. Born and
reared among the lowly, a stranger to wealth and luxury, compelled to grapple single-handed
with the flintiest hardships of life, from tender youth to sturdy manhood, he grew strong in
the manly and heroic qualities demanded by the great mission to which he was called by the
votes of his countrymen. The hard condition of his early life, which would have depressed and
broken down weaker men, only gave greater life, vigor, and buoyancy to the heroic spirit of
Abraham Lincoln. He was ready for any kind and quality of work. What other young men dreaded
in the shape of toil, he took hold of with the utmost cheerfulness.

    "A spade, a rake, a hoe,
      A pick-axe, or a bill,
    A hook to reap, a scythe to mow
      A flail, or what you will."

All day long he could split heavy rails in the woods, and half the night long he could study
his English Grammar by the uncertain flare and glare of the light made by a pine-knot. He was
at home on the land with his axe, with his maul, with gluts, and his wedges; and he was equally
at home on water, with his oars, with his poles, with his planks, and with his boat-hooks.
And whether in his flat-boat on the Mississippi River, or on the fireside of his frontier cabin,
he was a man of work. A son of toil himself, he was linked in brotherly sympathy with the sons
of toil in every loyal part of the Republic. This very fact gave him tremendous power with
the American people, and materially contributed not only to selecting him to the Presidency,
but in sustaining his administration of the Government.

Upon his inauguration as President of the United States, an office, even where assumed under
the most favorable conditions, fitted to tax and strain the largest abilities, Abraham Lincoln
was met by a tremendous crisis. He was called upon, not merely to administer the government,
but to decide in the face of terrible odds, the fate of the Republic.

A formidable rebellion rose in his path before him; the Union was practically dissolved; his
country was torn and rent asunder at the center. Hostile armies were already organized against
the Republic, armed with the munitions of war which the Republic had provided for its own defense.
The tremendous question for him to decide was whether his country should survive the crisis
and flourish, or be dismembered and perish. His predecessor in office had already decided the
question in favor of national dismemberment, by denying to it the right of self-defense and
self-preservation--a right which belongs to the meanest insect.

Happily for the country, happily for you and me, the judgment of James Buchanan, the patrician,
was not the judgment of Abraham Lincoln, the plebeian. He brought his strong common sense,
sharpened in the school of adversity, to bear upon the question. He did not hesitate, he did
not doubt, he did not falter but at once resolved, at whatever peril, at whatever cost, the
Union of the States should be preserved. A patriot himself, his faith was strong and unwavering
in the patriotism of his countrymen. Timid men said, before Mr. Lincoln's inauguration, that
we had seen the last President of the United States. A voice in influential quarters said,
"Let the Union slide." Some said that a Union maintained by the sword was worthless. Others
said that a rebellion of 8,000,000, cannot be suppressed; but in the midst of all this tumult
and timidity, and against all this, Abraham Lincoln was clear in his duty, and had an oath
in heaven. He calmly and bravely heard the voice of doubt and fear all around him; but he had
an oath in heaven, and there was not power enough on earth to make this honest boatman, backwoodsman,
and broad-handed splitter of rails evade or violate that sacred oath. He had not been schooled
in the ethics of slavery; his plain life had favored his love of truth. He had not been taught
that treason and perjury were the proofs of honor and honesty. His moral training was against
his saying one thing when he meant another. The trust which Abraham Lincoln had in himself
and in the people was surprising and grand, but it was also enlightened and well-founded. He
knew the American people better than they knew themselves, and his truth was based upon this
knowledge.

Fellow citizens, the fourteenth day of April, 1865, of which this is the eleventh anniversary,
is now, and will ever remain a memorable day in the annals of this Republic. It was on the
evening of this day, while a fierce and sanguinary rebellion was in the last stages of its
desolating power; while its armies were broken and scattered before the invincible armies of
Grant and Sherman; while a great nation, torn and rent by war, was already beginning to raise
to the skies loud anthems of joy at the dawn of peace, it was startled, amazed, and overwhelmed
by the crowning crime of slavery--the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. It was a new crime,
a pure act of malice. No purpose of the rebellion was to be served by it. It was the simple
gratification of a hell-black spirit of revenge. But it has done good, after all. It has filled
the country with a deeper abhorrence of slavery and a deep love for the great liberator.

Had Abraham Lincoln died from any of the numerous ills to which flesh is heir; had he reached
that good old age of which his vigorous constitution and his temperate habits gave promise;
had he been permitted to see the end of his great work; had the solemn curtain of death come
down but gradually--we should still have been smitten with a heavy grief, and treasured his
name lovingly. But dying, as he did die, by the red hand of violence, killed, assassinated,
taken off without warning, not because of personal hate,--for no man who knew Abraham Lincoln
could hate him--but because of his fidelity to union and liberty, he is doubly dear to us,
and his memory will be precious forever.

Fellow citizens, I end, as I began, with congratulations. We have done a good work for our
race to-day. In doing honor to the memory of our friend and liberator, we have been doing highest
honors to ourselves and those who come after us; we have been fastening ourselves to a name
and fame imperishable and immortal; we have also been defending ourselves from a blighting
scandal. When now it shall be said that the colored man is soulless, that he has no appreciation
of benefits or benefactors; when the foul reproach of ingratitude is hurled at us, and it is
attempted to scourge us beyond the range of human brotherhood, we may calmly point to the monument
we have this day erected to the memory of Abraham Lincoln.

ADDRESS DURING THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN OF 1880[17]

BY PINKNEY BENTON STEWART PINCHBACK

PINKNEY BENTON STEWART PINCHBACK is one of the most interesting and picturesque figures in
the race. A staunch fighter in the Reconstruction period in Louisiana, a delegate to many national
Republican Conventions; Ex-Lieutenant-Governor of Louisiana.

[Note 17: Delivered at Indianapolis, Indiana.]

Mr. President and Fellow Citizens:

The founders of the Republican party were aggressive men. They believed in the Declaration
of Independence and the great truths it contains; and their purpose was to make these truths
living realities. Possessing the courage of their convictions and regarding slavery as the
arch enemy of the Republic--the greatest obstruction to its maintenance, advancement and prosperity,--they
proclaimed an eternal war against it and, marshalling their forces under the banner of freedom
and equality before the law for all men, boldly and defiantly met the enemy at every point
and fairly routed it all along the line. Those men believed in and relied upon the conscience
of the people. To touch and arouse public conscience and to convince it of the justice of their
cause, they felt was all that was necessary to enlist the people on their side. Ridiculed,
threatened, ostracised, and assaulted, they could not be turned from their purpose, and their
achievements constitute the grandeur and glory of the Republican party. There were no apologists
for wrong-doers among those men, and there ought to be none in the Republican party to-day.
The South was the great disturbing element then as it is now; and the causes which rendered
it so are, in a large measure, the same. The people were divided into three classes--slave-holders,
slaves, and poor whites, or "poor white trash" as the latter were called by the colored people
because of their utter insignificance in that community. Its peculiar condition established
in the large land and slave-owning portion of the people a sort of privileged class who claimed
and exercised the right not only to rule the South, but the nation; and for many years that
class controlled both. Gorged with wealth and drunk with power, considering themselves born
to command and govern, being undisputed rulers, almost by inheritance in their States, the
Southern politicians naturally became aggressive, dictatorial, and determined to ruin the country
and sever the Union rather than consent to relinquish power, even though called upon to do
so by constituted methods. Hence it was that, when the people of the great North and Northwest
concluded to assert their rights and choose a man from among themselves for President, they
rebelled and forced upon the country so far as they were concerned, the most causeless and
unnatural war recorded in history.

I shall not dwell upon the history of the war or attempt to detail its horrors and sum up its
cost. I leave that task to others. If the wounds made by it have been healed, which I do not
concede, far be it from my purpose to re-open them. My sole reason for referring to the war
at all is to remind the Northern people of some of the agencies employed in its successful
prosecution. When it commenced, the principal labor element of the South--the source of its
production and wealth--was the colored race. Four millions and a half of these unfortunate
people were there, slaves and property of the men who refused to submit to the will of the
people lawfully expressed through the ballot-box. They were the bone and sinew of the Confederacy,
tilling its fields and producing sustenance for its armies, while many of the best men of the
North were compelled to abandon Northern fields to shoulder a musket in defense of the Union.
As a war measure and to deprive the South of such a great advantage, your President, the immortal
Lincoln, issued a proclamation in September, 1862, in which he gave public notice that it was
his purpose to declare the emancipation of the slaves in the States wherein insurrection existed
on January 1, 1863, unless the offenders therein lay down their arms. That notice, thank God,
was disregarded, and the proclamation of January 1, 1863, proclaiming universal emancipation
followed. Had the requirements of the first proclamation been observed by the people to whom
it was addressed who can doubt what would have been the fate of the colored people in the South?
It is reasonable to assume, inasmuch as the war was waged to perpetuate the Union and not to
destroy slavery--that they would have remained in hopeless bondage. On more than one occasion
President Lincoln officially declared that he would save the Union with slavery if he could,
and not until it became manifest that slavery was the mainstay of the Confederacy, and the
prosecution of the war to a successful close would be difficult without its destruction, did
he dare touch it. I do not think that President Lincoln's hesitancy to act upon the question
arose from sympathy with the accursed institution, for I believe every pulsation of his heart
was honest and pure and that he was an ardent and devoted lover of universal liberty; but he
doubted whether his own people would approve of his interference with it. Assured by the manner
in which the people of the North received his first proclamation that they appreciated the
necessity of destroying this great aid of the enemy, he went forward bravely declaring that,
"possibly for every drop of blood drawn by the lash one might have to be drawn by the sword,
but if so, as was said over eighteen hundred years ago, the judgments of the Lord are just
and righteous altogether," and abolished human slavery from the land forever.

That this great act was a Godsend and an immeasurable blessing to the colored race, I admit,
but I declare in the same breath that it was dictated and performed more in the interest of
the white people of the North and to aid them in conquering the rebellion than from love of
or a disposition to help the Negro. The enfranchisement of the colored race also sprang from
the necessities of the nation. At the close of the war the Southern States had to be rehabilitated
with civil governments and re-admitted into the Union. The men who had plunged the country
into war and had tried to destroy the Government were about to resume their civil and political
rights, and, through the election of Representatives and Senators in Congress, regain influence
and power in national councils. Apprehending danger from the enormous power they would possess
if reinstated in absolute control of eleven States, some means had to be devised to prevent
this. A political element, loyal to the Union and the flag, must be created; and again the
ever faithful colored people were brought into requisition, and without their asking for it,
the elective franchise was conferred upon them. There was no question about the loyalty of
these people, and the supposition that they would be a valuable political force and form the
basis of a loyal political party in the South was both natural and just, and the wisdom of
their enfranchisement was demonstrated by the establishment of Republican governments in several
of the States, and the sending of mixed delegations of Republican and Democratic members of
Congress therefrom so long as the laws conferring citizenship upon the colored man were enforced.

If the South is to remain politically Democratic as it is to-day, it is not the fault of the
colored people. Their fealty to the North and the Republican party is without parallel in the
world's history. In Louisiana alone more than five thousand lives attest it. While in nearly
every other Southern State fully as many lie in premature graves, martyrs to the cause. Considering
themselves abandoned and left to the choice of extermination or the relinquishment of the exercise
of their political rights, they have, in large districts in the South, wisely preferred the
latter. Kept in a constant condition of suspense and dread by the peculiar methods of conducting
canvasses and elections in that section, who can blame them? It is my firm conviction that
no other people under God's sun, similarly situated, would have done half so well. The fault
is attributable to the vicious practise, which obtains largely even here in the civilized North,
of apologizing for and condoning crimes committed for political purposes. Men love power everywhere
and Southern Democrats are no exception. On the contrary, deeming themselves "born to command,"
as I have already remarked, and knowing that there is no power to restrain or punish them for
crimes committed upon the poor and defenseless colored citizens, of course they have pushed
them to the wall. The inequality between the two races in all that constitutes protective forces
was such as to render that result inevitable as soon as Federal protection was withdrawn, and
I do not hesitate to affirm that unless some means are devised to enforce respect for the rights
of the colored citizens of the South, their enfranchisement will prove a curse instead of a
benefit to the country. Emancipated to cripple the South and enfranchised to strengthen the
North, the colored race was freed and its people made citizens in the interest of the Republic.
The faith and honor of the Nation are pledged to the rigid enforcement of the law in this,
as in every other respect, and the interests of the 40,000,000 white people in the Republic
demand it. If the law, both constitutional and statutory, affecting the rights and privileges
of the colored citizens can be defiantly ignored and disobeyed in eleven States of the Union
in a matter of such grave import as this--a matter involving the very essence of republican
government, i. e., the right of the majority to rule--who can tell where it will end and how
long it will be before elections in all of the States will be armed conflicts, to be decided
by the greatest prowess and dexterity in the use of the bowie knife, pistol, shot-gun and rifle?

White men of the North, I tell you this practise of controlling elections in the South by force
and fraud is contagious! It spreads with alarming rapidity and unless eradicated, will overtake
and overwhelm you as it has your friends in the South. It showed its horrid head in Maine,
and came very near wresting that State from a lawful majority. Employed in the South first
to drive Republicans from a few counties, it has grown from "autumnal outbreaks" into an almost
perpetual hurricane and, gathering force as it goes, has violently seized State after State,
mastered the entire South, and is even now thundering at the gates of the national Capital.
Whether it shall capture it too, and spread its blighting influence all over the land, is the
question you must answer at the poles in this election.

It was the intention of the great men who founded this Republic that it should be "A government
of the people, for the people, and by the people"; that its citizens, from the highest to the
lowest, should enjoy perfect equality before the law. To realize this idea the rule of the
majority, to be ascertained through the processes provided by law, was wisely adopted, and
the laws providing for and regulating elections are respected and obeyed in the Northern, Eastern,
and Western States. The Democracy of the South alone seems privileged to set at defiance the
organic as well as every statutory enactment, national and State, designed to secure this essential
principle of free government. Those men must be taught that such an exceptional and unhealthy
condition of things will not be tolerated; that the rights of citizens of every nationality
are sacred in the eyes of the law, and their right to vote for whom they please and have their
ballots honestly counted shall not be denied or abridged with impunity; that the faith of the
Nation is pledged to the defense and maintenance of these obligations, and it will keep its
pledge at whatever cost may be found necessary.

THE BLACK WOMAN OF THE SOUTH: HER NEGLECTS AND HER NEEDS[18]

BY ALEXANDER CRUMMELL, D. D., LL. D.

ALEXANDER CRUMMELL, D.D., an eminent Negro Episcopal clergyman; a graduate of Oxford University,
England; professor in a Liberian College; rector of St. Luke's in Washington and founder of
the Negro Academy.

[Note 18: Address before the "Freedman's Aid Society," Methodist Episcopal Church, Ocean Grove,
N. J., August 15th, 1883.]

It is an age clamorous everywhere for the dignities, the grand prerogatives, and the glory
of woman. There is not a country in Europe where she has not risen somewhat above the degradation
of centuries, and pleaded successfully for a new position and a higher vocation. As the result
of this new reformation we see her, in our day, seated in the lecture-rooms of ancient universities,
rivaling her brothers in the fields of literature, the grand creators of ethereal art, the
participants in noble civil franchises, the moving spirit in grand reformations, and the guide,
agent, or assistant in all the noblest movements for the civilization and regeneration of man.

In these several lines of progress the American woman has run on in advance of her sisters
in every other quarter of the globe. The advantage, she has received, the rights and prerogatives
she has secured for herself, are unequaled by any other class of women in the world. It will
not be thought amiss, then, that I come here to-day to present to your consideration the one
grand exception to this general superiority of women, viz., The black woman of the South.

* * * * *

The rural or plantation population of the South was made up almost entirely of people of pure
Negro blood. And this brings out also the other disastrous fact, namely, that this large black
population has been living from the time of their introduction into America, a period of more
than two hundred years, in a state of unlettered rudeness. The Negro all this time has been
an intellectual starveling. This has been more especially the condition of the black woman
of the South. Now and then a black man has risen above the debased condition of his people.
Various causes would contribute to the advantage of the men: the relation of servants to superior
masters; attendance at courts with them; their presence at political meetings; listening to
table-talk behind their chairs; traveling as valets; the privilege of books and reading in
great houses, and with indulgent masters--all these served to lift up a black man here and
there to something like superiority. But no such fortune fell to the lot of the plantation
woman. The black woman of the South was left perpetually in a state of hereditary darkness
and rudeness. From her girlhood she was the doomed victim of the grossest passions. All the
virtues of her sex were utterly ignored. With that mate she went out, morning after morning
to toil, as a common field-hand. As it was his, so likewise was it her lot to wield the heavy
hoe, or to follow the plow, or to gather in the crops. She was a "hewer of wood and a drawer
of water." She was a common field-hand. She had to keep her place in the gang from morn till
eve, under the burden of a heavy task, or under the stimulus or the fear of a cruel lash. She
was a picker of cotton. She labored at the sugar-mill and in the tobacco-factory. When, through
weariness or sickness, she has fallen behind her allotted task, there came, as punishment,
the fearful stripes upon her shrinking, lacerated flesh.

Her home life was of the most degrading nature. She lived in the rudest huts, and partook of
the coarsest food, and dressed in the scantiest garb, and slept, in multitudinous cabins, upon
the hardest boards.

Thus she continued a beast of burden down to the period of those maternal anxieties which,
in ordinary civilized life, give repose, quiet, and care to expectant mothers. But, under the
slave system, few such relaxations were allowed. And so it came to pass that little children
were ushered into this world under conditions which many cattle-raisers would not suffer for
their flocks or herds. Thus she became the mother of children. But even then there was for
her no suretyship of motherhood, or training, or control. Her own offspring were not her own.
She and husband and children were all the property of others. All these sacred ties were constantly
snapped and cruelly sundered. This year she had one husband; and next year, through some auction
sale, she might be separated from him and mated to another. There was no sanctity of family,
no binding tie of marriage, none of the fine felicities and the endearing affections of home.
None of these things was the lot of Southern black women. Instead thereof, a gross barbarism
which tended to blunt the tender sensibilities, to obliterate feminine delicacy and womanly
shame, came down as her heritage from generation to generation; and it seems a miracle of providence
and grace that, notwithstanding these terrible circumstances, so much struggling virtue lingered
amid these rude cabins, that so much womanly worth and sweetness abided in their bosoms, as
slave-holders themselves have borne witness to.

But some of you will ask: "Why bring up these sad memories of the past? Why distress us with
these dead and departed cruelties?" Alas, my friends, these are not dead things. Remember that

    "The evil that men do lives after them."

The evil of gross and monstrous abominations, the evil of great organic institutions crop out
long after the departure of the institutions themselves. If you go to Europe you will find
not only the roots, but likewise many of the deadly fruits of the old Feudal system still surviving
in several of its old states and kingdoms. So, too, with slavery. The eighteen years of freedom
have not obliterated all its deadly marks from either the souls or bodies of the black woman.
The conditions of life, indeed, have been modified since emancipation; but it still maintains
that the black woman is the Pariah woman of this land! We have, indeed, degraded women, immigrants,
from foreign lands. In their own countries some of them were so low in the social scale that
they were yoked with the cattle to plow the fields. They were rude, unlettered, coarse, and
benighted. But when they reach this land there comes an end to their degraded condition.

    "They touch our country and their shackles fall."

As soon as they become grafted into the stock of American life they partake at once of all
its large gifts and its noble resources.

Not so with the black woman of the South. Freed, legally she has been; but the act of emancipation
had no talismanic influence to reach to and alter and transform her degrading social life.

When that proclamation was issued she might have heard the whispered words in her every hut,
"Open, Sesame;" but, so far as her humble domicile and her degraded person were concerned,
there was no invisible but gracious Genii who, on the instant, could transmute the rudeness
of her hut into instant elegance, and change the crude surroundings of her home into neatness,
taste, and beauty.

The truth is, "Emancipation Day" found her a prostrate and degraded being; and, although it
has brought numerous advantages to her sons, it has produced but the simplest changes in her
social and domestic condition. She is still the crude, rude, ignorant mother. Remote from cities,
the dweller still in the old plantation hut, neighboring to the sulky, disaffected master class,
who still think her freedom was a personal robbery of themselves, none of the "fair humanities"
have visited her humble home. The light of knowledge has not fallen upon her eyes. The fine
domesticities which give the charm to family life, and which, by the refinement and delicacy
of womanhood, preserve the civilization of nations, have not come to her. She has still the
rude, coarse labor of men. With her rude husband she still shares the hard service of a field-hand.
Her house, which shelters, perhaps, some six or eight children, embraces but two rooms. Her
furniture is of the rudest kind. The clothing of the household is scant and of the coarsest
material, has ofttimes the garniture of rags; and for herself and offspring is marked, not
seldom, by the absence of both hats and shoes. She has rarely been taught to sew, and the field
labor of slavery times has kept her ignorant of the habitudes of neatness, and the requirements
of order. Indeed, coarse food, coarse clothes, coarse living, coarse manners, coarse companions,
coarse surroundings, coarse neighbors, both black and white, yea, every thing coarse, down
to the coarse, ignorant, senseless religion, which excites her sensibilities and starts her
passions, go to make up the life of the masses of black women in the hamlets and villages of
the rural South.

This is the state of black womanhood. Take the girlhood of this same region, and it presents
the same aspect, save that in large districts the white man has not forgotten the olden times
of slavery and with indeed the deepest sentimental abhorrence of "amalgamation," still thinks
that the black girl is to be perpetually the victim of his lust! In the larger towns and in
cities our girls in common schools and academies are receiving superior culture. Of the 15,000
colored school teachers in the South, more than half are colored young women, educated since
emancipation. But even these girls, as well as their more ignorant sisters in rude huts, are
followed and tempted and insulted by the ruffianly element of Southern society, who think that
black men have no rights which white men should regard, and black women no virtue which white
men should respect!

And now look at the vastness of this degradation. If I had been speaking of the population
of a city, or a town, or even a village, the tale would be a sad and melancholy one. But I
have brought before you the condition of millions of women. According to the census of 1880
there were, in the Southern States, 3,327,678 females of all ages of the African race. Of these
there were 674,365 girls between twelve and twenty, 1,522,696 between twenty and eighty. "These
figures," remarks an observing friend of mine, "are startling!" And when you think that the
masses of these women live in the rural districts; that they grow up in rudeness and ignorance;
that their former masters are using few means to break up their hereditary degradation, you
can easily take in the pitiful condition of this population, and forecast the inevitable future
to multitudes of females unless a mighty special effort is made for the improvement of the
black womanhood of the South.

I know the practical nature of the American mind, I know how the question of values intrudes
itself into even the domain of philanthropy; and, hence, I shall not be astonished if the query
suggests itself, whether special interest in the black woman will bring any special advantage
to the American nation.

Let me dwell for a few moments upon this phase of the subject. Possibly the view I am about
suggesting has never before been presented to the American mind. But, Negro as I am, I shall
make no apology for venturing the claim that the Negress is one of the most interesting of
all the classes of women on the globe. I am speaking of her, not as a perverted and degraded
creature, but in her natural state, with her native instincts and peculiarities.

Let me repeat just here the words of a wise, observing, tender-hearted philanthropist, whose
name and worth and words have attained celebrity. It is fully forty years ago since the celebrated
Dr. Channing said: "We are holding in bondage one of the best races of the human family. The
Negro is among the mildest, gentlest of men. He is singularly susceptible of improvement from
abroad.... His nature is affectionate, easily touched, and hence he is more open to religious
improvement than the white man.... The African carries with him much more than we the genius
of a meek, long-suffering, loving virtue."

I should feel ashamed to allow these words to fall from my lips if it were not necessary to
the lustration of the character of my black sisters of the South. I do not stand here to-day
to plead for the black man. He is a man; and if he is weak he must go the wall. He is a man;
he must fight his own way, and if he is strong in mind and body, he can take care of himself.
But for the mothers, sisters, and daughters of my race I have a right to speak. And when I
think of their sad condition down South; think, too, that since the day of emancipation hardly
any one has lifted up a voice in their behalf, I feel it a duty and a privilege to set forth
their praises and to extol their excellencies. For, humble and benighted as she is, the black
woman of the South is one of the queens of womanhood. If there is any other woman on this earth
who in native aboriginal qualities is her superior, I know not where she is to be found; for,
I do say, that in tenderness of feeling, in genuine native modesty, in large disinterestedness,
in sweetness of disposition and deep humility, in unselfish devotedness, and in warm, motherly
assiduities, the Negro woman is unsurpassed by any other woman on this earth.

The testimony to this effect is almost universal--our enemies themselves being witnesses. You
know how widely and how continuously, for generations, the Negro has been traduced, ridiculed,
derided. Some of you may remember the journals and the hostile criticisms of Coleridge and
Trollope and Burton, West Indian and African travelers. Very many of you may remember the philosophical
disquisitions of the ethnological school of 1847, the contemptuous dissertations of Hunt and
Gliddon. But it is worthy of notice in all these cases that the sneer, the contempt, the bitter
gibe, have been invariably leveled against the black man--never against the black woman! On
the contrary, she has almost everywhere been extolled and eulogized. The black man was called
a stupid, thick-lipped, flat-nosed, long-heeled, empty-headed animal; the link between the
baboon and the human being, only fit to be a slave! But everywhere, even in the domains of
slavery, how tenderly has the Negress been spoken of! She has been the nurse of childhood.
To her all the cares and heart-griefs of youth have been intrusted. Thousands and tens of thousands
in the West Indies and in our Southern States have risen up and told the tale of her tenderness,
of her gentleness, patience, and affection. No other woman in the world has ever had such tributes
to a high moral nature, sweet, gentle love, and unchanged devotedness. And by the memory of
my own mother and dearest sisters I can declare it to be true!

Hear the tribute of Michelet: "The Negress, of all others, is the most loving, the most generating;
and this, not only because of her youthful blood, but we must also admit, for the richness
of her heart. She is loving among the loving, good among the good. (Ask the travelers whom
she has so often saved.) Goodness is creative; it is fruitfulness; it is the very benediction
of a holy act. The fact that woman is so fruitful I attribute to her treasures of tenderness,
to that ocean of goodness which permeates her heart.... Africa is a woman. Her races are feminine....
In many of the black tribes of Central Africa the women rule, and they are as intelligent as
they are amiable and kind."

The reference in Michelet to the generosity of the African woman to travelers brings to mind
the incident in Mungo Park's travels, where the African women fed, nourished, and saved him.
The men had driven him away. They would not even allow him to feed with the cattle; and so,
faint, weary, and despairing, he went to a remote hut and lay down on the earth to die. One
woman, touched with compassion, came to him, brought him food and milk, and at once he revived.
Then he tells us of the solace and the assiduities of these gentle creatures for his comfort.
Let us pity the white man, no mother has he,'" etc.

Perhaps I may be pardoned the intrusion, just here, on my own personal experience. During a
residence of nigh twenty years in West Africa, I saw the beauty and felt the charm of the native
female character. I saw the native woman in her heathen state, and was delighted to see, in
numerous tribes, that extraordinary sweetness, gentleness, docility, modesty, and especially
those maternal solicitudes which make every African boy both gallant and defender of his mother.

I saw her in her civilized state, in Sierra Leone; saw precisely the same characteristics,
but heightened, dignified, refined, and sanctified by the training of the schools, the refinements
of civilization, and the graces of Christian sentiment and feeling. Of all the memories of
foreign travel there are none more delightful than those of the families and the female friends
of Freetown.

A French traveler speaks with great admiration of the black ladies of Hayti. "In the towns,"
he says, "I met all the charms of civilized life. The graces of the ladies of Port-au-Prince
will never be effaced from my recollections."

But I must remember that I am to speak not only of the neglects of the black woman, but also
of her needs. And the consideration of her needs suggests the remedy which should be used for
the uplifting of this woman from a state of brutality and degradation.

* * * * *

Ladies and gentlemen, since the day of emancipation millions of dollars have been given by
the generous Christian people of the North for the intellectual training of the black race
in this land. Colleges and universities have been built in the South, and hundreds of youth
have been gathered within their walls. The work of your own Church in this regard has been
magnificent and unrivaled, and the results which have been attained have been grand and elevating
to the entire Negro race in America. The complement to all this generous and ennobling effort
is the elevation of the black woman. Up to this day and time your noble philanthropy has touched,
for the most part, the male population of the South, given them superiority, and stimulated
them to higher aspirations. But a true civilization can only then be attained when the life
of woman is reached, her whole being permeated by noble ideas, her fine taste enriched by culture,
her tendencies to the beautiful gratified and developed, her singular and delicate nature lifted
up to its full capacity; and then, when all these qualities are fully matured, cultivated and
sanctified, all their sacred influences shall circle around ten thousand firesides, and the
cabins of the humblest freedmen shall become the homes of Christian refinement and of domestic
elegance through the influence and the charm of the uplifted and cultivated black woman of
the South!

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE EDUCATIONAL LEAGUE OF GEORGIA[19]

BY JOSEPHINE ST. PIERRE RUFFIN, of Boston, Mass.

Founder of the National Association of Negro Women

[Note 19: June, 1889.]

Ladies of the Georgia Educational League:

The telegram which you sent to Governor Northern to read to his audience, informing the people
of the North of your willingness to undertake the moral training of the colored children of
Georgia, merits more than a passing notice. It is the first time, we believe, in the history
of the South where a body of representative Southern white women have shown such interest in
the moral welfare of the children of their former slaves as to be willing to undertake to make
them more worthy the duties and responsibilities of citizenship. True, there have been individual
cases where courageous women have felt their moral responsibility, and have nobly met it, but
one of the saddest things about the sad condition of affairs in the South has been the utter
indifference which Southern women, who were guarded with unheard of fidelity during the war,
have manifested to the mental and moral welfare of the children of their faithful slaves, who,
in the language of Henry Grady, placed a black mass of loyalty between them and dishonor. This
was a rare opportunity for you to have shown your gratitude to your slaves and your interest
in their future welfare.

The children would have grown up in utter ignorance had not the North sent thousands of her
noblest daughters to the South on this mission of heroic love and mercy; and it is worthy of
remark of those fair daughters of the North, that, often eating with Negroes, and in the earlier
days sleeping in their humble cabins, and always surrounded by thousands of them, there is
not one recorded instance where one has been the victim of violence or insult. If because of
the bitterness of your feelings, of your deep poverty at the close of the war, conditions were
such that you could not do this work yourselves, you might have give a Christian's welcome
to the women who came a thousand miles to do the work, that, in all gratitude and obligation
belonged to you,--but instead, these women were often persecuted, always they have been ruthlessly
ostracised, even until this day; often they were lonely, often longed for a word of sympathy,
often craved association with their own race, but for thirty years they have been treated by
the Christian white women of the South,--simply because they were doing your work,--the work
committed to you by your Saviour, when he said, "Inasmuch as you did it to one of the least
of these my brethren, you did it unto me,"--with a contempt that would serve to justify a suspicion
that instead of being the most cultured women, the purest, bravest missionaries in America,
they were outcasts and lepers.

But at last a change has come. And so you have "decided to take up the work of moral and industrial
training of the Negroes," as you "have been doing this work among the whites with splendid
results." This is one of the most hopeful stars that have shot through the darkness of the
Southern sky. What untold blessings might not the educated Christian women of the South prove
to the Negro groping blindly in the darkness of the swamps and bogs of prejudice for a highway
out of servitude, oppression, ignorance, and immorality!

* * * * *

The leading women of Georgia should not ask Northern charity to do what they certainly must
have the means for making a beginning of themselves. If your heart is really in this work--and
we do not question it--the very best way for you to atone for your negligence in the past is
to make a start yourselves. Surely if the conditions are as serious as you represent them to
be, your husbands, who are men of large means, who are able to run great expositions and big
peace celebrations, will be willing to provide you with the means to protect your virtue and
that of your daughters by the moral training you propose to give in the kindergartens.

There is much you might do without the contribution of a dollar from any pocket, Northern or
Southern. On every plantation there are scores, if not hundreds, of little colored children
who could be gathered about you on a Sabbath afternoon and given many helpful inspiring lessons
in morals and good conduct.

* * * * *

It is a good augury of better days, let us hope, when the intelligent, broad-minded women of
Georgia, spurning the incendiary advice of that human firebrand who would lynch a thousand
Negroes a month, are willing to join in this great altruistic movement of the age and endeavor
to lift up the degraded and ignorant, rather than to exterminate them. Your proposition implies
that they may be uplifted and further, imports a tacit confession that if you had done your
duty to them at the close of the war, which both gratitude and prudence should have prompted
you to do, you would not now be confronted with a condition which you feel it necessary to
check, in obedience to the great first law of nature--self-protection. If you enter upon this
work you will doubtless be criticised by a class of your own people who think you are lowering
your own dignity, but the South has suffered too much already from that kind of false pride
to let it longer keep her recreant to the spirit of the age.

If, when you have entered upon it, you need the co-operation, either by advice or other assistance,
of the colored women of the North, we beg to assure you that they will not be lacking,--until
then, the earnest hope goes out that you will bravely face and sternly conquer your former
prejudices and quickly undertake this missionary work which belongs to you.

IN THE WAKE OF THE COMING AGES[20]

BY J. MADISON VANCE, of New Orleans, La.

[Note 20: Extract from an address delivered at the Music Hall, Boston, Mass., October 4, 1894,
before the Seventh Biennial Meeting of the Grand United Order of Odd Fellows of America.]

In these trying times of peace with tears of blood; these times of crimes so horrible and fiendish
that Christianity bows in supplication for surcease of sorrow, and the advance of civilization
seems in vain; in these times when the Negro is compared to the brute, and his mentality limited
to the ordinary; in these times when the holy robes of the Church are used to decry, villify
and malign the race; in these times when the subsidized press of the country loudly proclaims
the Negro's incapacity for government; in these times I turn with pardonable pride to the Grand
United Order of Odd Fellows, an organization the affairs of which are administered entirely
by colored men, an organization that typifies the possibilities of the race; the organization
whose very existence gives the lie to the damnable aspersions cast upon us by the enemies of
humanity.

This grand organization is but a collection of individuals, and as individuals we must shape
our destiny. The time is past for pleading; these are days of action. The higher we rise, the
sharper will become the prejudice of color. The laboring white is jealous of the competition
of the blacks. The problem is to be worked out in the South, and largely by ourselves. With
all the disadvantages and proscriptive doctrines that encroach upon us in that Southland, I
honestly believe that this land with all its natural beauties and advantages, this land below
the mountains; this land of passion and pleasure, of fever and fret, this land famed in history,
song, and story as the "land of Dixie," is the Negro's coming Arcadia. From its lowlands and
marshes will yet come forth the peerless leader, who will not only point out the way, but will
climb the battlements of tolerance and race prejudice, backed by the march of civilization,
and, with his face to the enemy, fight the battle of common humanity.

The romance of "Emancipation" is fading out. The old slave is rapidly passing. The mythology
of his period is extinct. The Republic has declared against the "Force Bill." The "Prætorian
Guard" is mustered out, and the sentiment of the times is against paternalism. "Every tub must
stand on its own bottom," and the eloquence of the orator cannot arrest the trend of the times.
A problem is half solved when facts are apprehended; it is more than half solved when the facts
are comprehended, and practical sense succeeds sentiment.

The Negro confronts destiny. He must be the architect of his own fortune. He must demonstrate
capacity and independence, because mendicancy is always destructive. The living present calls
us away from the ashes of the dead and buried past. Our hopes are brighter and our ambitions
higher. Let us stand on our own racial pride, and prove our claim for equality by showing the
fruits of thrift, talent, and frugality. The brotherhood of genius will not refuse the need
of merit, and within the sweep of our constant observations great artists, musicians, poets,
and orators are more than hinted possibilities. We would be criminals to despair. The Negro
is here, and here to stay, and traveling rapidly in "the wake of coming ages."

As the shadows come creeping over the dial of time, the nineteenth century faces the setting
sun; a century replete with the grandest inventions of modern times, and with a fullness of
scientific investigation beyond the possible conception of man one hundred years ago. This
century has emancipated woman, and like the "Dreamers on the brow of Parnassus," she is not
forgetful of the toilers on other altitudes within the horizon's rim. She is not blind to the
signal lights, which in their blaze proclaim new knowledge, new power for man, new triumphs,
new glory for the human spirit in its march on chaos and the dark. Any message of love would
be incomplete without her gentle voice. Her love is her life, white-winged and eternal. Her
welcome is spontaneous, fervid, whole-souled, generous. Her influence is felt everywhere, throughout
the ramifications of our "Order." The wholesome power of her persuasive counsel is ofttimes
needed, and the tender mercies of her tireless devotion have smoothed away the grim visage
of discontent, brought solace to the fevered brain, and made peaceful that dreary journey from
life to death.

* * * * *

We look out upon our vast army of followers, and glory in our stalwart band. * * * * * Out
of the darkness of the night, imposing in our numbers, stand we forth, splendid and terrible,
in "The Wake of the Coming Ages." And when we look at all the magnificent fabric we call civilization,
its incalculable material, its wealth, its amazing mechanical resources, its wonderful scientific
discoveries, its many-sided literature, its sleepless and ubiquitous journalism, its lovely
art, its abounding charities, its awful fears and sublime hopes, we get a magnificent conception
of the possibilities of life, as this latest of the centuries draws its purple robe about its
majestic form and stands up to die as the old Roman Cæsar stood, in all the magnificence of
its riches, and the plenitude of its power.

But after all, the measure of its value is the character of it humanity.

THE NEGRO AS A SOLDIER[22]

BY CHRISTIAN A. FLEETWOOD

CHRISTIAN A. FLEETWOOD, Sergeant-Major, United States Volunteer Infantry, 1863-1866. Received
a Medal of Honor from Congress for meritorious action in saving the colors at Chapin Farm,
September 29, 1864, where he seized them after two color-bearers had been shot down, and bore
them throughout the fight. Also has a General B. F. Butler Medal for bravery and courage before
Richmond.

[Note 22: Delivered at the Negro Congress, at the Cotton States and International Exposition,
Atlanta Ga., November 11 to November 23, 1895.]

For 1600 years prior to the war between Great Britain and the Colonies, the pages of history
bear no record of the Negro as a soldier. Tracing his separate history in the Revolutionary
War is a task of much difficulty, for the reason that while individual instances of valor and
patriotism abound, there were so few separate bodies of Negro troops that no separate record
appears to have been made. The simple fact is that the fathers as a rule enlisted men both
for the Army and Navy, just as now it is only continued by the Navy; that is to say, they were
assigned wherever needed, without regard to race or color. Varner's Rhode Island Battalion
appears to have been the only large aggregation of Negroes in this war, though Connecticut,
New York, and New Hampshire each furnished one separate company in addition to individuals
scattered through their other organizations, so that ere the close of the war, there were very
few brigades, regiments, or companies in which the Negro was not in evidence.

The free Negro appears to have gone in from the beginning without attracting or calling out
special comment. Later, as men grew scarcer and necessity more pressing, slaves were taken
in also, and then the trouble began. Those who held slaves did not care to lose them in this
way. Others who had not did not think it just the thing in a war for avowed freedom to place
an actual slave in the ranks to fight. Some did not want the Negro, bonded or free, to take
part as a soldier in the struggle. So that in May, 1775, the Massachusetts Committee of Safety
voted that thereafter only free men should be enlisted. In July, General Gates issued an order
prohibiting further enlistments of Negroes, but saying nothing of those already in the service.

In October a council of war presided over by General Washington, comprising three major-generals
and six brigadier-generals, voted unanimously against the enlistment of slaves, and by a decided
majority against further enlistments of Negroes.

On the 7th November, 1775, Earl Dundore, commanding the force of His Majesty the King, issued
a proclamation offering freedom and equal pay to all slaves who would join his armies as soldiers.
It did not take the colonists long to find out their mistake, although General Washington,
in accordance with the expressed will of his officers and of the Committee of Safety, did on
the 17th of November, 1775, issue a proclamation forbidding the further enlistment of Negroes.
Less than two months later, that is to say on the 30th of December, 1775, he issued a second
proclamation again authorizing the enlistment of free Negroes. He advised Congress of his action,
and stated that he would recall it if so directed. But he was not. The splendid service rendered
by the Negro and the great and pressing need of men were such, that although the opposition
continued from some sections, it was not thereafter strong enough to obtain recognition. So
the Negroes went and came, much as other men.

In all the events of the war, from Bunker Hill to Yorktown, they bore an honorable part. The
history of the doings of the armies is their history, as in everything they took part and did
their share. Their total enlistment was about 3,000 men,--a very fair percentage for the population
of that period. I might instance the killing of Major Pitcairn, at Bunker Hill, by Peter Salem,
and of Major Montgomery, at Fort Griswold, by Jordan Freeman. The part they took in the capture
of Major-General Prescott at Newport; their gallant defense of Colonel Greene, their beloved
commander, when he was surprised and murdered at Croton River, May 13, 1781, when it was only
after the last of his faithful guards had been shot and cut down that he was reached; or the
battle of Rhode Island, when a battalion of 400 Negroes withstood three separate and distinct
charges from 1,500 Hessians under Count Donop, and beat them back with such tremendous loss
that Count Donop at once applied for an exchange, fearing that his men would kill him, if he
went into battle with them again, for having exposed them to such slaughter; and many other
instances that are of record.

This is a splendid and well-attested tribute to a gallant and worthy Negro. There were many
such, but, beyond receiving and reading, no action was taken thereon by Congress. There is
no lack of incidents, and the temptation to quote many of them is great, but the time allotted
me is too brief for extended mention, and I must bring this branch of my subject to a close.
It is in evidence that while so many Negroes were offering their lives a willing sacrifice
for the country, in some sections the officers of the Continental forces received their bounty
and pay in Negroes, "grown" and "small," instead of "dollars" and "cents." Fighting for liberty
and taking pay in slaves!

When the war was over the free men returned to meet their same difficulties; the slaves were
caught when possible and re-enslaved by their former masters. In Boston a few years later we
find a party of black patriots of the Revolution mobbed on Boston Common while celebrating
the anniversary of the abolition of the slave-trade.

The captain of a vessel trading along the coast tells of a Negro who had fought in the war
and been distinguished for bravery and soldierly conduct. He was reclaimed and re-enslaved
by his master after the war, and served him faithfully until old age rendered him useless.
The master then brought the poor old slave to this captain and asked him to take him along
on his trip and try to sell him. The captain hated to sell a man who had fought for his country,
but finally agreed, took the poor old man to Mobile, and sold him for $100 to a man who put
him to attending a chicken-coop. His former master continued to draw the old slave's pension
as a soldier in the Revolution, until he died.

The War of 1812 was mainly fought upon the water, and in the American Navy at that time the
Negro stood in the ratio of about one to six. We find record of complaint by Commodore Perry
at the beginning because of the large number of Negroes sent him, but later the highest tribute
to their bravery and efficiency.

I know of nothing finer in history than these incidents of valor and patriotism.

As before, the Negro was not universally welcomed to the ranks of the American Army; but later,
continued reverses and a lack of enthusiasm in enlistments made it necessary to seek his aid,
and from Mobile, Ala., on September 21, 1814, General Jackson issued a stirring call to the
free colored people of Louisiana for aid.

In a remarkably short period, two battalions were raised, under Majors LaCaste and Savary,
which did splendid service in the battle of New Orleans. New York enrolled two battalions,
and sent them to Sacketts Harbor. Pennsylvania enrolled 2400, and sent them to Gray's Ferry
at the capture of Washington, to prepare for the invading column. Another battalion also was
raised, armed, equipped, and ready to start to the front, when peace was declared.

In one of the actions of this war, a charging column of the American Army was repulsed and
thrown into great disorder. A Negro private named Jeffreys, seeing the disaster, sprang upon
a horse, and by heroic effort rallied the troops, led them back upon a second charge, and completely
routed the enemy. He was rewarded by General Jackson with the honorary title of Major. Under
the laws he could not commission him.

When the war was over, this gallant man returned to his home in Nashville, Tenn., where he
lived for years afterward, highly respected by its citizens of all races.

At the age of seventy years, this black hero was obliged, in self-defense, to strike a white
ruffian, who had assaulted him. Under the laws of the State he was arrested and given nine
and thirty lashes on his bare back. It broke his heart, and Major Jeffreys died.

It seems a little singular that in the tremendous struggle between the States in 1861-1865,
the South should have been the first to take steps toward the enlistment of Negroes. Yet such
is the fact. Two weeks after the fall of Fort Sumter, the Charleston Mercury records the passing
through Augusta of several companies of the the 3rd and 4th Georgia Regiment, and of sixteen
well-drilled companies and one Negro company from Nashville, Tenn.

The Memphis Avalanche and The Memphis Appeal of May 9, 10, and 11, 1861, gave notice of the
appointment by the "Committee of Safety" of a committee of three persons "to organize a volunteer
company composed of our patriotic freemen of color of the city of Memphis, for the service
of our common defense."

A telegram from New Orleans dated November 23, 1861, notes the review by Governor Moore of
over 28,000 troops, and that one regiment comprised "1,400 colored men." The New Orleans Picayune,
referring to a review held February 9, 1862, says: "We must also pay a deserved compliment
to the companies of free colored men, all very well drilled and comfortably equipped."

It is a little odd, too, that in the evacuation of New Orleans a little later, in April, 1862,
all of the troops succeeded in getting away except the Negroes. They "got left."

It is not in our line to speculate upon what would have been the result of the war had the
South kept up this policy, enlisted the freemen, and emancipated the enlisting slaves and their
families. The immense addition to their fighting force, the quick recognition of them by Great
Britain, to which slavery was the greatest bar, and the fact that the heart of the Negro was
with the South but for slavery, and the case stands clear. But the primary successes of the
South closed its eyes to its only chance of salvation, while at the same time the eyes of the
North were opened.

In 1865, the South saw, and endeavored to remedy, its error. On March 9, 1865, the Confederate
Congress passed a bill, recommended by General Lee, authorizing the enlistment of 200,000 Negroes;
but it was then too late.

The North came slowly and reluctantly to recognize the Negro as a factor for good in the war.
"This is a white man's war," met the Negroes at every step of their first efforts to gain admission
to the armies of the Union.

To General David Hunter, more than to any other one man, is due the credit for the successful
entry upon the stage of the Negro as a soldier in this war.

In the spring of 1862, he raised and equipped a regiment of Negroes in South Carolina, and
when the fact because known in Washington and throughout the country, such a storm was raised
about the ears of the Administration that they gracefully stood aside and left the brave general
to fight his enemies in the front and rear as best he might. He was quite capable to do both,
as it proved.

* * * * *

The beginning of 1863 saw the opening of the doors to the Negro in every
direction. General Lorenzo Thomas went in person to the valley of the
Mississippi to supervise it there. Massachusetts was authorized to fill
its quota with Negroes. The States of Maryland, Missouri, Delaware, and
Tennessee were thrown open by order of the War Department, and all
slaves enlisting therefrom declared free. Ohio, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, and New York joined the band and sent the stalwart black
boy in blue to the front singing, "Give us a flag, all free, without a
slave." For two years the fierce and determined opposition had kept them
out, but now the bars were down and they came pouring in. Some one said,
"he cared not who made the laws of a people if he could make their
songs." A better exemplification of this would be difficult to find
than is the song written by "Miles O'Reilly" (Colonel Halpine), of the
old 10th Army Corps. I cannot resist the temptation to quote it here.
  So hear me all, boys, darlin', don't think I'm tipping you chaff,--
  The right to be kilt, I'll divide with him, an' give him the largest half."

It took three years of war to place the enlisted Negro upon the same ground as the enlisted
white man as to pay and emoluments; perhaps six years of war might have given him shoulder-straps,
but the war ended without authorization of law for that step. At first they were received,
under an act of Congress that allowed each one, without regard to rank, ten dollars per month,
three dollars thereof to be retained for clothing and equipments. I think it was in May, 1864,
when the act was passed equalizing the pay, but not opening the doors to promotion.

Under an act of the Confederate Congress, making it a crime punishable with death for any white
person to train Negroes or mulattoes to arms, or aid them in any military enterprise, and devoting
the Negro caught under arms to the tender mercies of the "present or future laws of the State"
in which caught, a large number of promotions were made by the way of a rope and a tree along
the first year of the Negro's service. (I can even recall one instance as late as April, 1865,
though it had been long before then generally discontinued.)

What the Negro did, how he did it, and where, it would take volumes to properly record, I can
however give but briefest mention to a few of the many evidences of his fitness for the duties
of the war, and his aid to the cause of the Union.

The first fighting done by organized Negro troops appears to have been done by Company A, 1st
South Carolina Negro Regiment, at St. Helena Island, November 3 to 10, 1862, while participating
in an expedition along the coast of Georgia and Florida under Lieutenant-Colonel O. T. Beard,
of the 48th New York Infantry, who says in his report:

"The colored men fought with astonishing coolness and bravery. I found them all I could desire,--more
than I had hoped. They behaved gloriously, and deserve all praise."

The testimony thus inaugurated runs like a cord of gold through the web and woof of the history
of the Negro as a soldier from that date to their final charge, the last made at Clover Hill,
Va., April 9, 1865.

Necessarily the first actions in which the Negro bore a part commanded most attention. Friends
and enemies were looking eagerly to see how they would acquit themselves, and so it comes to
pass that the names of Fort Wagner, Olustee, Millikens Bend, Port Hudson, and Fort Pillow are
as familiar as Bull Run, Antietam, Shiloh and Gettysburg, and while those first experiences
were mostly severe reverses, they were by that very fact splendid exemplifiers of the truth
that the Negroes could be relied upon to fight under the most adverse circumstances, against
any odds, and could not be discouraged.

Let us glance for a moment at Port Hudson, La., in May, 1863, assaulted by General Banks with
a force of which the 1st and 2nd Regiments, Louisiana Native Guards, formed a part. When starting
upon their desperate mission, Colonel Stafford of the 1st Regiment, in turning over the regimental
colors to the color-guard, made a brief and patriotic address, closing with the words:

"Color-guard: Protect, defend, die for, but do not surrender, these colors."

Six times with desperate valor they charged over ground where success was hopeless, a deep
bayou between them and the works of the enemy at the point of attack rendering it impossible
to reach them, yet strange to say, six times they were ordered forward and six times they went
to useless death, until swept back by the blazing breath of shot and shell before which nothing
living could stand. Here fell the gallant Captain Cailloux, black as the ace of spades. Refusing
to leave the field though his arm had been shattered by a bullet, he returned to the charge
until killed by a shell.

A soldier limping painfully to the front was halted and asked where he was going. He replied,
"I am shot bad in de leg, and dey want me to go to de hospital, but I guess I can give 'em
a little more yet."

The colors came back, but crimsoned with the blood of the gallant Plancianos, who reported
to God from that bloody field.

Shall we glance from this to Millikens Bend, La., in January, 1863, garrisoned by the 9th and
11th Louisiana and the 1st Mississippi, all Negroes, and about 160 of the 23rd Iowa (white),
about 1100 fighting men in all? Attacked by a force of six Confederate regiments, crushed out
of their works by sheer weight of numbers, borne down toward the levee, fighting every step
of the way, hand to hand--clubbed musket, bayonets, and swords,--from three A. M. to twelve
noon, they fought desperately until a Union gun-boat came to the rescue and shelled the desperate
foe back to the woods, with a total loss to the defenders of 437 men,--two-fifths of their
strength.

Shall we turn with sadness to Fort Wagner, S. C., in July, 1863, when the 54th Massachusetts
won its deathless fame, and its grand young commander, Colonel Robert Gould Shaw, passed into
the temple of immortality? After a march of all day, under a burning sun, and all night through
a tempest of wind and rain, drenched, exhausted, hungry, they wheeled into line, without a
murmur for that awful charge, that dance of death, the struggle against hopeless odds, and
the shattered remnants were hurled back as from the mouth of hell, leaving the dead bodies
of their young commander and his noble followers to be buried in a common grave. Its total
loss was about one-third of its strength.

Here it was that the gallant flag-sergeant, Carney, though grievously wounded, bore back his
flag to safety, and fell fainting and exhausted with loss of blood, saying, "Boys, the old
flag never touched the ground!" Or another glance, at ill-starred Olustee, where the gallant
8th United States Colored Troops lost 87 killed of its effective fighting force, the largest
loss in any one colored regiment in any one action of the war. And so on, by Fort Pillow, which
let us pass in merciful silence, and to Honey Hill, S. C., perhaps the last desperate fight
in the far south, in which the 32nd, 35th, and 102nd United States Colored Troops and the 54th
and 55th Massachusetts Infantry won fresh and fadeless laurels for splendid fighting against
hopeless odds and insurmountable difficulties, and then to Nashville, Tenn., with its recorded
loss of 84 killed in the effectives of the 13th United States Colored Troops.

These were all brilliant actions, and they covered the actors with, and reflected upon the
race, a blaze of glory. But it was in the armies of the James and of the Potomac that the true
metal of the Negro as a soldier rang out its clearest notes amid the tremendous diapasons that
rolled back and forth between the embattled hosts. Here was war indeed, upon its grandest scale
and in all its infinite variety: The tireless march under burning sun, chilling frosts, and
driven tempests; the lonely vigil of the picket under starless skies, the rush and roar of
countless "hosts to battle driven" in the mad charge and the victorious shout that pursued
the fleeing foe; the grim determination that held its line of defenses with set teeth, blood-shot
eye, and strained muscle, beating back charge after charge of the foe; the patient labor in
trench and mine, on hill and in valley, swamp and jungle, with disease adding its horrors to
the decimation of shot and shell.

Here the Negro stood in the full glare of the greatest search-light, part and parcel of the
grandest armies ever mustered upon this continent, competing side by side with the best and
bravest of the Union Army against the flower of the Confederacy, the best and bravest of Lee's
army, and losing nothing in the contrast. Never again while time lasts will the doubt arise
as in 1861, "Will the Negro fight?" As a problem, it has been solved; as a question, it has
been answered; and as a fact, it is as established as the eternal hills. It was the Negroes
who rang up the curtain upon the last act of the bloody tragedy at Petersburg, Va., June 15,
1864, and they who rang it down at Clover Hill, Va., April 9, 1865. They were one of the strong
fingers upon the mighty hand that grasped the giant's throat at Petersburg and never flexed
until the breath went out at Appomattox. In this period it would take page on page to recount
their deeds of valor and their glorious victories.

See them on the 15th of June, 1864, carrying the out-post at Baylor's field in early morning,
and all that long, hot, summer day advancing, a few yards at a time, then lying down to escape
the fire from the works, but still gradually creeping nearer and nearer, until, just as the
sun went down, they swept like a tornado over the works and started upon a race for the city,
close at the heels of the flying foe, until mistakenly ordered back. Smith, speaking of their
conduct, says: "No nobler effort has been put forth to-day, and no greater success achieved
than that of the colored troops."

* * * * *

Or, again, at the terrible mine explosion of July 30, 1864, on the Petersburg line, and at
the fearful slaughter of September 29, 1864, at New Market Heights and Fort Harrison. On this
last date in the Fourth United States Colored Troops, out of a color-guard of twelve men, but
one came off the field on his own feet. The gallant flag-sergeant, Hilton, the last to fall,
cried out as he went down, "Boys, save the colors"; and they were saved.

* * * * *

History further repeats itself in the fact that in every war so far known to this country,
the first blood, and, in some cases, the last also, has been shed by the faithful Negro, and
this in spite of all the years of bondage and oppression, and of wrongs unspeakable. Under
the sun there has nothing been known in the history of any people more marvellous than these facts!

    Oh, to the living few,
    Comrades, be just, be true.

It is but a little thing to ask, they could ask no less: be just; but, oh, the shame of it
for those who need be asked!

There is no need for panegyric, for sounding phrases or rounded periods. The simple story is
eloquent with all that is necessary to make the heart swell with pride. In the hour allotted
me to fill, it is possible only to indicate in skeleton the worth of the Negro as a soldier.
If this brief sketch should awaken even a few to interest in his achievements, and one be found
willing and fitted to write the history that is their due, that writer shall achieve immortality.

AN ADDRESS AT THE UNVEILING OF THE ROBERT GOULD SHAW MONUMENT[23]

BY BOOKER T. WASHINGTON, A. M., LL.D.

[Note 23: An address by Booker T. Washington, A. M., delivered on the occasion of the unveiling
of the Robert Gould Shaw Monument, Boston, Mass., May 31, 1897.]

Mr. Chairman and Fellow Citizens:

In this presence, and on this sacred and memorable day, in the deeds and death of our hero,
we recall the old, old story, ever old yet ever new, that when it was the will of the Father
to lift humanity out of wretchedness and bondage, the precious task was delegated to Him who,
among ten thousand, was altogether lovely, and was willing to make himself of no reputation
that he might save and lift up others.

If that heart could throb and if those lips could speak, what would be the sentiment and words
that Robert Gould Shaw would have us feel and speak at this hour? He would not have us dwell
long on the mistakes, the injustice, the criticisms of the days

    "Of storm and cloud, of doubt and fears,
    Across the eternal sky must lower;
    Before the glorious noon appears,"

he would have us bind up with his own undying fame and memory and retain by the side of his
monument, the name of John A. Andrews, who, with prophetic vision and strong arm, helped to
make the existence of the 54th Regiment possible; and that of George L. Stearns, who, with
hidden generosity and a great sweet heart, helped to turn the darkest hour into day, and in
doing so, freely gave service, fortune, and life itself to the cause which this day commemorates.
Nor would he have us forget those brother officers, living and dead, who by their baptism in
blood and fire, in defense of union and freedom, gave us an example of the highest and purest
patriotism.

But an occasion like this is too great, too sacred for mere individual eulogy. The individual
is the instrument, national virtue the end. That which was 300 years being woven into the warp
and woof of our democratic institutions could not be effaced by a single battle, as magnificent
as was that battle; that which for three centuries had bound master and slave, yea, North and
South, to a body of death, could not be blotted out by four years of war, could not be atoned
for by shot and sword, nor by blood and tears.

Not many days ago in the heart of the South, in a large gathering of the people of my race,
there were heard from many lips praises and thanksgiving to God for His goodness in setting
them free from physical slavery. In the midst of that assembly there arose a Southern white
man the former owner of many slaves, gray of hair and with hands which trembled, and from his
quivering lips, there came the words; "My friends, you forget in your rejoicing that, in setting
you free, God was also good to me and my race in setting us free." But there is a higher and
deeper sense in which both races must be free than that represented by the bill of sale. The
black man who cannot let love and sympathy go out to the white man is but half free. The white
man who would close the shop or factory against a black man seeking an opportunity to earn
an honest living is but half free. The white man who retards his own development by opposing
a black man is but half free. The full measure of the fruit of Fort Wagner and all that this
monument stands for will not be realized until every man covered with a black skin shall, by
patience and natural effort, grow to that height in industry, property, intelligence, and moral
responsibility, where no man in all our land will be tempted to degrade himself by withholding
from his black brother any opportunity which he himself would possess.

Until that time comes this monument will stand for effort, not victory complete. What these
heroic souls of the 54th Regiment began, we must complete. It must be completed not in malice,
not in narrowness; nor artificial progress, nor in efforts at mere temporary political gain,
nor in abuse of another section or race. Standing as I do to-day in the home of Garrison and
Phillips and Sumner, my heart goes out to those who wore gray as well as to those clothed in
blue; to those who returned defeated, to destitute homes, to face blasted hopes and a shattered
political and industrial system. To them there can be no prouder reward for defeat than by
a supreme effort to place the Negro on that footing where he will add material, intellectual,
and civil strength to every department of State.

This work must be completed in public school, industrial school, and college. The most of it
must be completed in the effort of the Negro himself, in his effort to withstand temptation,
to economize, to exercise thrift, to disregard the superficial for the real--the shadow for
the substance, to be great and yet small, in his effort to be patient in the laying of a firm
foundation, so to grow in skill and knowledge that he shall place his services in demand by
reason of his intrinsic and superior worth. This is the key that unlocks every door of opportunity,
and all others fail. In this battle of peace the rich and poor, the black and white, may have
a part.

What lesson has this occasion for the future? What of hope, what of encouragement, what of
caution? "Watchman, tell us of the night; what the signs of promise are." If through me, an
humble representative, nearly ten millions of my people might be permitted to send a message
to Massachusetts, to the survivors of the 54th Regiment, to the committee whose untiring energy
has made this memorial possible, to the family who gave their only boy that we might have life
more abundantly, that message would be, "Tell them that the sacrifice was not in vain, that
up from the depth of ignorance and poverty, we are coming, and if we come through oppression
out of the struggle, we are gaining strength. By the way of the school, the well-cultivated
field, the skilled hand, the Christian home, we are coming up; that we propose to invite all
who will to step up and occupy this position with us. Tell them that, as grateful as we are
to artist and patriotism for placing the figures of Shaw and his comrades in physical form
of beauty and magnificence, that after all, the real monument, the greater monument, is being
slowly but safely builded among the lowly in the South, in the struggles and sacrifices of
a race to justify all that has been done and suffered for it."

One of the wishes that lay nearest Colonel Shaw's heart was, that his black troops might be
permitted to fight by the side of white soldiers. Have we not lived to see that wish realized,
and will it not be further realized in the future? Not at Wagner, not with rifle and bayonet,
but on the field of peace, in the battle of industry, in the struggle for good government,
in the lifting up of the lowest to the fullest opportunities. In this we shall fight by the
side of white men, North and South. And if this be true, as under God's guidance it will, that
old flag, that emblem of progress and security, which brave Sergeant Carney never permitted
to fall on the ground, will still be borne aloft by Southern soldier and Northern soldier,
and, in a more potent and higher sense, we shall all realize that

    "The slave's chain and the master's alike are broken;
      The one curse of the race held both in tether;
    They are rising, all are rising--
      The black and the white together."

THE LIMITLESS POSSIBILITIES OF THE NEGRO RACE[24]

By CHARLES W. ANDERSON, of New York

[Note 24: An address delivered before the Tennessee Centennial Exposition, Nashville, Tenn.,
June 5, 1897.]

Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:

I sometimes feel that we, as a race, do not fully appreciate the importance of industrial education.
I feel that the day is near at hand when the physical apparatus of civil education will play
a larger part in the progress of the world than it has hitherto done. In other words, I firmly
believe that the industrial victories are in the future and not in the past. We have done much
and wrought many miracles, but the miracles are but evidences of possible powers rather than
the high-tide marks of development. In my mind the possibilities of physical and scientific
achievement are limitless, and beyond the compass of human conception. Look at iron alone.
See what has been done with it in the last fifty years. See what you are able to do with it
here in Tennessee. From it are made things dainty and things dangerous, carriages and cannon,
spatula and spade, sword and pen, wheel, axle and rail, as well as screw, file, and saw. It
is bound around the hull of ships and lifted into tower and steeple. It is drawn into wire,
coiled into springs, woven into gauze, twisted into rope, and sharpened into needles. It is
stretched into a web, finer by comparison than the gossamer of the morning along the bed of
the ocean, and made to tick out the yesterday of Europe on the to-day of America. All of this
variety of use has been made out of the stubbornness of metals by the sovereign touch of industrial
and scientific education. There is inexhaustible promise in this development. It has brought,
and is still bringing, the two great races closer together. These iron veins and arteries which
interlock our cities and confederate our States do much to familiarize each race with the hopes
and aspirations of the other, and to weave their histories into one harmonious contexture,
as telegraphic messages fly instantaneously across them, and screaming trains rush back and
forth like shuttles upon a mighty loom. When our fullest expectations shall have been fulfilled,
both races will have the freest opportunity for the development of their varied capabilities,
and, through mutual bonds of interest and affection and mutual bonds of sympathy and purpose,
will rise the unmatched harmonies of a united people to the imperial accompaniment of two mighty
oceans.

It is a peculiar fact that immediately after the abolition of human slavery the country started
upon an unparalleled career of prosperity. The West, then almost unexplored, began to develop,
and has continued to do so until now it is studded with proud cities, teeming with throbbing
life, growing like the grass of the prairies in spring-time, advancing like the steam-engine,
baffling distance like the telegraph, and spreading the pulsations of their mighty hearts to
the uttermost parts of the world. There they stand with their echoing marts of trade, their
stately spires of worship and their magnificent institutions of learning, as free as the encircling
air, as independent as the soaring eagle, and more powerful than the Roman Empire when in the
plenitude of her power. All of this has been accomplished since the energies of men were unfettered.
Thus it may be said that both races started almost simultaneously on their careers to fulfill
the destiny of this great country among the countries of the world. And as we started together
substantially, we must end together. We started with most unequal equipment, to be sure, and
under conditions as far apart as the sky from this pavilion, but we have marched to the same
music and in the same direction ever since, with varying fortunes and unequal steps, but with
no steps backward, until to-day we are able to recognize in each other and be recognized by
all mankind as equals in our attachment to the land, the laws, the institutions, and the flag
of our common country.

The responsibility now rests upon you to improve each minute of your lives in fitting yourselves
for a wiser, better and worthier discharge of the obligations of American citizenship. You
may be constrained to ask, "What shall we do?" or, with Archimedes of old, exclaim "Give me
where to stand and I will move the world." Let me advise you to stand where you are. That's
the place. Act well your part, and you shall have accomplished all that is expected of you.
My friends, a country like ours is not governed by law, or courts of justice, or judges, however
wise or puissant. It is governed by public sentiment. Once poison it, and courts are impotent
and judges powerless. Therefore we are responsible, each and all of us, according to our talents
and influence, for the public sentiment of the day. If it is healthy and just, it is we who
have made it so; if it is unhealthy and unjust, it is we who have made it or permitted it to
become so. And what is this all-powerful, but imperceptible, entity, this potent influence
which controls presidents, cabinets, congresses, courts, judges, juries, the press and--I regret
to say it--the pulpit? What is public sentiment or public opinion? It is the multiplied, accumulated
opinion of all the people. Every word spoken or written by man or woman goes to make up this
great stream of public opinion, just as every drop of dew or water goes to make up that mighty
river which divides this imperial continent and turns the spindles of the ten thousand factories
which hug its shores. Hence we are all responsible for our contribution to the public opinion
of the day, whether our contribution be a raindrop or a Niagara. We are responsible for what
we say and what we leave unsaid, for what we do and what we leave undone, for what we write
and what is unwritten. We are responsible for the errors we have committed and for those we
have taken no part in overthrowing. So, whether we realize it or not, we are consciously or
unconsciously, intentionally or unintentionally, directly or indirectly, according to our opportunities
and our influence, responsible for the public sentiment which secures or deprives every citizen
of his rights and of the opportunity for the highest intellectual and industrial development.

I know that it is sometimes said that we have done very little. Be that as it may. Thirty years
is but a brief time compared with the centuries in which Norman, Saxon, and Dane have been
fusing into the English race. And yet, we have something to remember when great names are counted,
something to show when great deeds are told. At the same time I would not have you sit supinely
down and wait for the millennium. Far from it. It is said that all things come to him who waits.
That is in part true, but it is only fifty per cent. of the whole truth. All things come to
him who waits, if he hustles while he waits.

You will need not only education and character, but you also need level-headedness and accuracy
of judgment. Acquire intellectuality, but acquire practicality at the same time. Do not join
that large and constantly increasing class in this country to whom nothing is desirable but
the impossible. Do not indulge in the pastime of throwing stones at the stars. Learn to be
practical, and, whatever you attempt in life, remember to think out a plan and a policy before
you begin the work. When you are called upon to go out and do battle, stop and reflect, and
see if there is a reasonable probability of your whipping anybody. If the probability is not
apparent, I would advise you to decline the glove and reserve your lance for a more "convenient
season." Martyrdom is very attractive, especially attractive to vigorous young men, but it
"butters no parsnips." Therefore, cultivate prudence as well as valor, and study men as well
as books; for you will needs be prepared to meet the living issues of the present; and if you
are wise, you will anticipate the possible exigencies of the future. To do this you will want
both courage and discretion. Learn the proper value of organization and union, and never cease
to remember that an army divided is an army defeated. You will neither be able to help yourself
nor hurt the enemy by firing paper bullets. You must organize.

To make steam effective you must bind it up in an engine; to make water serviceable, you must
harness it in a mill; to make electricity manageable, you must mask it in a battery; and to
make men useful in reformatory or remedial work, you must recruit them into an organization.

And to those present who have not enjoyed the advantages of an education, let me direct a few
remarks. You must not believe that you cannot assist in the work of building character for
the race. Every man or woman who plays his or her part according to the best lights, who bears
a respected name, or bears the proud title of a "good citizen," who is industrious, temperate,
upright, law-abiding, and devoted to whatever is lovely and of good report, is unconsciously
pleading the cause of the race before the great tribunal of the civilized world.

To all such we can only render the tribute which history accords to those who fight as privates
in the battles of human progress, with all the more devotion and fidelity because their names
will never be known. Whenever a man earns the respect of the community in which he resides,
some part of that respect, some breath of that fragrance is reflected upon the race of which
he is a member.

As a race, we have done much, but we must not forget how much more there is still to do. We
have already demonstrated the possession of powers, but we must now bring forth the fruits
of sustained racial achievement. We must not only acquire that culture which is the golden
key that unlocks all doors and unbars all gates, but we must cultivate that straightforwardness
of purpose and unconquerable determination which enables a people to face conditions "without
fear and without reproach."

And so the last suggestion comes which the hour presents. In the work of race advancement,
we need the service and assistance of all true men and women. We must have the co-operation
of all sections and all conditions. The cotton-fields of Alabama, the sugar-plantations of
Louisiana, and the coal-mines of Tennessee; the great lakes of the North which winter roofs
with ice, and from which drips refreshing coolness through the hot summer months, from the
fisheries and the factories, from wheat-fields and pine forests, from meadows billowed with
golden grain and orchards bending beneath their burdens of golden fruit, this advance movement
must receive support. The humble laborer following his plow afield must do his part; the blacksmith
at his forge, the lawyer at the bar, the fisherman on the banks, the man of science putting
nature to the question, all, without distinction and without exception, must contribute, according
to his station and his opportunity, to the hastening of the day when the Negro shall take his
place by the side of the other great race of men and form that grand spectacle which Tennyson
had in mind when he spoke of "the parliament of man, the federation of the world."

THE PARTY OF FREEDOM AND THE FREEDMEN--A RECIPROCAL DUTY[25]

BY WILLIAM SANDERS SCARBOROUGH, D.D., LL.D

WILLIAM SANDERS SCARBOROUGH, M. A., PH. D., LL.D., President of Wilberforce University, Ohio.
Author of "First Lessons in Greek," the first and only Greek book written by a Negro, largely
used as text-book in both white and Negro schools. Author of a large number of classical interpretations,
and philological pamphlets.

[Note 25: Address delivered at the Lincoln Day Banquet, Dayton, Ohio, Feb. 11, 1899.]

Slavery has been well called the "perfected curse of the ages."

Since the world began, freedom has been at war with all that savored of servitude. The sentiment
of liberty is innate in every human breast. Freedom of speech and of action--the right of every
man to be his own master--has ever been the inestimable privilege sought, the boon most craved.
For this guerdon men have fought; for this they have even gladly died.

It was the unquenchable desire for liberty that brought the Pilgrim Fathers to Plymouth Rock.
They knew that all that is highest and noblest in the human soul is fostered to its greatest
development only under the blazing sunlight of freedom. Here was heralded to the nation prophetic
freedom for all mankind and for all generations.

However, the years of bondage for Africa's sons and daughters in this fair land stretched on
over a half century more before the issue was raised. But at last the grasping arms of the
gigantic octopus, that was feeding at the nation's heart, reached out too far, and the combat
with the monster was begun. Then that laurelled champion and leader of freedom's cause, Charles
S. Sumner, laid his hand upon that Declaration of Independence and declared that the nation
was "dedicated to liberty and the rights of human nature."

I count it the glory of that gifted humanitarian that he gave his magnificent talents and energies
to the organization of a party that could add to its amor patriæ the larger, broader, nobler
love of freedom for all mankind; and I count it the glory of that party that it stood for

    "the voice of a people--uprisen, awake";

that it was "born to make men free."

No matter what name has been inscribed on its banner during its existence of a full half century,
the cause that the party of freedom espoused has given its standard-bearer a right to claim
that it, and it alone, is the legitimate heir to power in this land where the forefathers sought
the liberty the Old World denied. Who dares dispute the claim? Who dares challenge the assertion?
Time and events have sanctioned it; age has but strengthened it. And to-day, holding as tenaciously
the same principles of truth and justice, the party that, among the parties of this Republic,
alone stands as the synonym of freedom is the Republican party.

None dare gainsay it. And, among the growing multitudes in this broad land of ours, none know
this better than ten millions of Afro-Americans who but for its strong arm of power might still
be suffering from "Man's inhumanity to man."

Forget it? The mightiest draughts from Lethe's stream could not blot from the remembrance of
the race the deed of that Republican leader enthroned upon the seat of government, the deed
of the immortal Lincoln, whose birth we commemorate here to-night, the deed of that second
Abraham who, true to his name as the "father of the faithful," struck the chains from the Negro's
limbs and bade him stand forever free.

But did the great work stop there? No; the fast following amendments to the Constitution show
that the party of freedom never paused; and the bond forged during the long years of struggle
and riveted by emancipation was indissolubly welded when that party crowned the freedman with
the glorious rights and privileges of citizenship. Ah, what lamentations loud and long filled
the land! What dire predictions smote the nation's ear! What a multitude of evils imagination
turned loose like a horde of Furies! What a war of opinion raged 'twixt friends and foes of
the race that drew the first full breath of freedom! More than three decades have passed. Have
these dismal prophecies been fulfilled? No race under the sun has been so patient under calumny,
under oppression, under mob violence; no race has ever shown itself so free from resentment.

But it has been said the Negro was not worth the struggle. Not worth the struggle when, at
every call to arms in the nation's history, the black man has nobly responded, whether slave
or freeman? Not worth the struggle when, in the Revolution, on Lake Erie with Perry, at Port
Hudson, at Millikens Bend, in that fearful crater at Petersburg, he shed his blood freely in
the nation's behalf? Not worth the struggle, when he won his way from spade to epaulet in the
defense of the nation's honor? The freedmen fathers were neither cowards nor traitors. Nor
do the sons disgrace their sires.

Who saved the Rough Riders from annihilation at Las Guasimas? Who stormed with unparalleled
bravery the heights at El Caney and swept gallantly foremost in that magnificent charge up
San Juan hill? Comrades, leaders, onlookers--all with one voice have made reply: "The Negro
soldier." Aye; the race has proved its worth, and the whole country, irrespective of party
or section, owes it a debt, not only for its heroic service on the battle-field in times of
national peril, which was its duty, but for its splendid self-control generally, under the
most harassing situations, under most inexcusable assaults.

No; the faith of the party of freedom in the Negro has not been unfounded. In all these years
the race has been steadily gaining wealth, education, refinement, places of responsibility
and power. It might have done far more for the lasting good of all concerned, had it learned
that in all things the

    "... Heights are not gained by a single bound,
    But we built the ladder by which we rise,...
    And we mount to its summit round by round."

But the prophecies of the past are far behind us. The world has passed its verdict on what
has been. Mistakes must yield us profit as the problems of the future confront us. We are to
look forward with hope. And in preparation for that future,

    "The riddling Sphynx puts dim things from our minds,
    And sets us to the questions at our doors."

As the Republican party and the Negro face the coming years, one question is of equal moment
to both. What shall be the mutual relations in the future? Shall the party of freedom declare
at an end its duty toward the party it made men and citizens? On the other hand, shall the
Negro say: "Indebtedness ceased with our fathers; we are free to make alliance where we will"?

In view of the blood shed so freely for Republican principles by the Negro as slave and freeman;
in view of the loyalty, the courage, the patriotism, the strength, and the needs of the race;
in view of this country's prospective broadened domain and the millions of dusky wards to be
added to the nation o'er which the American eagle hovers to-day; and in view of the principles
that inhere in Republicanism, the party of freedom should find but one answer: "It is and shall
be our duty to view you ever as men and citizens, to see that no chain of our forging manacles
you to lower planes, that no bar is thrown by us across your pathway up the hill of progress,
to help maintain your rights, to throw the weight of our influence for fair treatment, for
the side of law and order and justice. The Republican party must not forget for a moment the
truth of the argument that Demosthenes once made against Philip with such striking force,--"All
power is unstable that is founded on injustice." This party cannot afford to be less than just.
The Negro should not ask for more.

This duty laid upon itself on the one hand, it becomes incumbent upon the Negro to reciprocate,
and the reciprocation calls for his support of the party. This should be a support, wise and
open-eyed, born of appreciation and intelligence. It should be a support, steadfast and loyal,
based upon faith in the party's motives and the knowledge that it has stood and still stands
for all that the Negro holds most dear. It should be a support that frees itself from selfish
leaders and ranting demagogues, that puts aside all mere personal gain, and seeks the good
of the race as a whole that it, too, may be lifted up. And lastly, it should be a support that
looks for no reward but that which comes because of true worth and ability.

Reciprocity becomes a mutual duty, for there are mutual needs. The Negro's strength is not
to be ignored by the party; but the race cannot stand alone. It needs alliance with friendly
power; and there is no friend like the tried friend, no party for the freedman like the party
that stands upon the high, broad platform of freedom and human rights, irrespective of race,
or color, or previous condition.

But having said this, I would be false to the race and my own convictions did I not pause to
give the warning that, after all, neither parties nor politics alone can save the Negro. He
needs to make a new start in his civil and political career. He must pay less attention to
politics and more to business, to industry, to education, to the building up of a strong and
sturdy manhood everywhere--to the assimilation generally of all that goes to demand the world's
respect and consideration. He must lop off, as so many incubi, the professional Negro office-seeker,
the professional Negro office-holder, and the Negro politician who aspires to lead the race,
for the revenue that is in it. The best men, the wisest, the most unselfish, and above all,
the men of the most profound integrity and uprightness, must take the helm or retrogression
will be the inevitable result. Politics followed as an end has been the curse of the race.
Under it problems have multiplied, and under it the masses have remained longer than they should
in the lower stages of development. Only in the hands of men of noble mold, and used only as
a means to an end, can politics accomplish the highest good for all the race.

The Negro can keep all this in view and yet yield loyal support to the party that set him free.

Let the party of freedom and the freedmen recognize and observe these duties as reciprocal,
and a force may be created, having its basis on undying principles, that will pave the way
for the ultimate success of the highest aspirations of each--a force that will stretch southward
and westward bearing, wherever Old Glory floats, the promise to the oppressed: Freedom, equality,
prosperity. And though men may apostatize, this mutual righteous cause shall live to sway for
unnumbered years the fortunes of this grand Republic, for the God who reared the continents
above the seas and peopled them with nations, who gave these nations freedom of conscience
and will, and who has watched their rise and fall from the dawn of creation, still guides the
destinies of races and of parties, and standeth

    "... within the shadow,
    Keeping watch above his own."

THE TEACHINGS OF HISTORY CONSIDERED IN RELATION TO RACE PROBLEMS IN AMERICA[26]

BY NATHAN F. MOSSELL, A. M., M. D.

Surgeon-in-Chief, Frederick Douglass Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.

[Note 26: From Howard's American Magazine.]

Those who are familiar with history will testify that the blacks were a fundamental element
in the civilized races of antiquity, as also of the primitive races of southern Europe. In
fact, all history is pregnant with traces of the Negro element. The world will ever look with
wonder and amazement upon the marks of ancient culture in the valley of the Nile, and we may
continue to look as far back as records and inscriptions lend us light, only to find the black
man, above all others, leading in the ancient arts and sciences.

History places the earliest civilization in Egypt. The ruling tribes among the people were
called the Hamites, the "sunburnt race," according to Dr. Winchell. Says Professor J. Boughton:
"The wanderings of these people since prehistoric history began has not been confined to the
American continent. In Paleolithic times the black man roamed all over the fairer portions
of the Old World; Europe, as well as Asia and Africa, acknowledged his sway. No white man had,
so far, appeared to dispute his authority in the vine-clad valleys of France or Germany, or
upon the classic hills of Greece or Rome. The black man preceded all others, and carried Paleolithic
culture to its very height."

The history of all the lands has been but the history of succeeding races; more often, however,
by fusion of different racial types and by the mingling of various tribes and peoples, have
been evolved new races, superior to any of the original types. Greece and Rome, the study of
history will tell you, had their race and social problems. Inter-marriage at last settled the
question. The ethnology of Spain tells the same story. There is not a nation on the globe of
pure ethnic character. From the ethnic standpoint, the blood of the black race is everywhere
apparent. Ask the Frenchman, the Italian, the Spaniard, whence comes his dark skin and hair;
it surely does not come from the Aryan blonde. Ethnology alone can give the answer. In considering
the future of our racial problems, it is fitting that we shall recall these facts of history
to know the Negro's past place in the world's annals.

* * * * *

American slavery, the most accursed institution the world has ever known, did more to degrade
the master than the slave, a truth most often overlooked. It is here I take strong exception
to the literal interpretation of the injunction, "Whosoever will smite thee on the right cheek,
turn to him the other also," and "If any man take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also."
Not so; but, on the contrary, we should resist evil with our energy. The tyrant who smites
you on one cheek is only made more of a brute by permitting him to continue in the practise
by smiting you on the other. It is our moral duty, therefore, to resist him, and not more for
our own sake than for his. The brutalizing influence of slavery upon the master class is the
curse of the Southern States to-day, and has much more to do with the difficulties of solving
the race problems than does the ignorance of the blacks. The Government is not guiltless in
this matter of interpretation of the scriptural injunction. In the matter of State rights,
Southern election laws, and mob violence, our Government has turned the other cheek also. What
has been the result? Why the tyrants continue to become more and more brutal, until they are
not only running black men out, but they have recently, at the muzzle of the shot gun, forced
their own kith and kin, men to the manor born, to leave the States. I have no hesitancy in
proclaiming that this brutality is a legacy left us by slavery, against which we have to contend,
making itself felt in the organized mob and in disregard of constituted authority.

In these days of imperialism and territorial expansion, when there is, likewise, much discussion
on the subject of inferior races, it is fitting that we should place ourselves aright upon
the question of suffrage and rights of franchise. Those States in the South which are passing
laws restricting suffrage, to promote the selfish ends of a class, are sowing to the wind and
will surely reap the whirlwind. In a republican government, supposed to be ruled by the popular
vote, a people's liberty has practically been taken when the right to vote is denied them.
In such States, personal liberty, the right to testify in courts of law, the right to hold,
buy, and sell real estate, and, in fact, all other rights, become mere privileges, held at
the option of others. People are no longer free when the rights of franchise have been annulled.
Slavery is truly re-enacted in those States which have succeeded in disfranchising the Negro.

I have neither patience nor respect for those among us who are truckling to the prejudice of
our enemies by giving credence to the lie that the ballot was placed in the black man's hand
too soon. The so-called Negro domination of the reconstruction period has no record of misrule
such as exists in most of the Southern States to-day. It is our privilege (an oppressed people,
who know by bitter experience whereof we speak) to give this government timely warnings as
to its duties toward the inhabitants of our newly acquired territory.

I have no confidence in the Government's ability to ameliorate the race conflicts of the South
through the course recently outlined by the President of this nation in speeches of flattery
and encomiums upon the dead and living heroes of the Southern Confederacy. This policy of conciliation
was repeatedly attempted before the war, with the results that the slave influence continued
to spread further north and west. It was proved then, as it ever shall be, that no nation can
succeed by making a compact with the devil. One must tremble for this country's future when
they read upon the statute-books of the Southern States these diabolical laws against social
purity, against the civil and political rights of our citizens. It is hoped that the coming
Congress will rise to a sense of our impending danger, and see to it that the strong arm of
the Government is brought forward to protect each and every citizen in his civil and political
rights. Until this is done, we are by no means prepared to add nine millions more of a dark
race to those with which we now have to deal. There are those already high in the nation's
council who predict that the result of our present war[27] will be a curse instead of a blessing,
that the nation's incapacity to deal justly with our recently liberated slaves proves our inability
to deal with nine millions more of untutored and so-called inferior people.

[Note 27: War with Spain.]

* * * * *

The final conclusion of the whole matter may be forecasted thus: The Negro element in this
country is permanent and indestructible. So great are the numbers of the Negroes, and so intimate
their relations with the white people, that it is safe to say without fear of contradiction
that the status of the Negro element will determine in a large degree the future of the white.
Let this truth once be learned. Let the thoughtful people of the nation cease trying to deceive
themselves. The inevitable teachings of history will not be reversed. The blood of these varied
races will finally be mingled until race distinctions will ultimately be obliterated. The docile
nature of the Negro race, his intimate domestic and other relations with the whites, make this
conclusion inevitable. The two races are complements of each other and cannot be separated.

A DEFENSE OF THE NEGRO RACE[28]

BY HON. GEORGE H. WHITE

Member of Congress from North Carolina

[Note 28: Extracts from a speech delivered in the House of Representatives, January 29, 1901.]

Mr. Chairman:

I want to enter a plea for the colored man, the colored woman, the colored boy, and the colored
girl of this country. I would not thus digress from the question at issue and detain the House
in a discussion of the interests of this particular people at this time but for the constant
and the persistent efforts of certain gentlemen upon this floor to mold and rivet public sentiment
against us as a people, and to lose no opportunity to hold up the unfortunate few, who commit
crimes and depredations and lead lives of infamy and shame, as other races do, as fair specimens
of representatives of the entire colored race. And at no time, perhaps, during the 56th Congress
were these charges and countercharges, containing, as they do, slanderous statements, more
persistently magnified and pressed upon the attention of the nation than during the consideration
of the recent reapportionment bill, which is now a law. As stated some days ago on this floor
by me, I then sought diligently to obtain an opportunity to answer some of the statements made
by gentlemen from different States, but the privilege was denied me; and I therefore must embrace
this opportunity to say, out of season, perhaps, that which I was not permitted to say in season.

In the catalogue of members of Congress in this House perhaps none have been more persistent
in their determination to bring the black man into disrepute and, with a labored effort, to
show that he was unworthy of the right of citizenship than my colleague from North Carolina,
Mr. Kitchin. During the first session of this Congress, while the Constitutional amendment
was pending in North Carolina, he labored long and hard to show that the white race was at
all times and under all circumstances superior to the Negro by inheritance if not otherwise,
and the excuse for his party supporting that amendment, which has since been adopted, was that
an illiterate Negro was unfit to participate in making the laws of a sovereign State and the
administration and execution of them; but an illiterate white man living by his side, with
no more or perhaps not as much property, with no more exalted character, no higher thoughts
of civilization, no more knowledge of the handicraft of government, had by birth, because he
was white, inherited some peculiar qualification, clear, I presume, only in the mind of the
gentleman who endeavored to impress it upon others, that entitled him to vote, though he knew
nothing whatever of letters. It is true, in my opinion, that men brood over things at times
which they would have exist until they delude themselves and actually, sometimes honestly,
believe that such things do exist.

I would like to call the gentleman's attention to the fact that the Constitution of the United
States forbids the granting of any title of nobility to any citizen thereof, and while it does
not in letters forbid the inheritance of this superior caste, I believe in the fertile imagination
of the gentleman promulgating it, his position is at least in conflict with the spirit of that
organic law of the land. He insists and, I believe, has introduced a resolution in this House
for the repeal of the fifteenth amendment to the Constitution.

* * * * *

It would be unfair, however, for me to leave the inference upon the minds of those who hear
me that all of the white people of the State of North Carolina hold views with Mr. Kitchin
and think as he does. Thank God there are many noble exceptions to the example he sets, that,
too, in the Democratic party; men who have never been afraid that one uneducated, poor, depressed
Negro could put to flight and chase into degradation two educated, wealthy, thrifty white men.
There never has been, nor ever will be, any Negro domination in that State, and no one knows
it any better than the Democratic party. It is a convenient howl, however, often resorted to
in order to consummate a diabolical purpose by scaring the weak and gullible whites into support
of measures and men suitable to the demagogue and the ambitious office-seeker, whose craving
for office overshadows and puts to flight all other considerations, fair or unfair.

As I stated on a former occasion, this young statesman has ample time to learn better and more
useful knowledge than he has exhibited in many of his speeches upon this floor, and I again
plead for him the statute of youth for the wild and spasmodic notions which he has endeavored
to rivet upon his colleagues and this country. But I regret that Mr. Kitchin is not alone upon
this floor in these peculiar notions advanced. I refer to another young member of Congress,
hailing from the State of Alabama, Mr. Underwood.

* * * * *

It is an undisputed fact that the Negro vote in the State of Alabama, as well as most of the
other Southern States, has been effectively suppressed, either one way or the other--in some
instances by constitutional amendment and State legislation, in others by cold-blooded fraud
and intimidation, but whatever the method pursued, it is not denied, but frankly admitted in
the speeches in this House, that the black vote has been eliminated to a large extent. Then,
when some of us insist that the plain letter of the Constitution of the United States, which
all of us have sworn to support, should be carried out, as expressed in the second section
of the fourteenth amendment thereof.

That section makes the duty of every member of Congress plain, and yet the gentleman from Alabama
[Mr. Underwood] says that the attempt to enforce this section of the organic law is the throwing
down of fire-brands, and notifies the world that this attempt to execute the highest law of
the land will be retaliated by the South, and the inference is that the Negro will be even
more severely punished than the horrors through which he has already come.

Let me make it plain: The divine law, as well as most of the State laws, says, in substance:
"He that sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed." A highwayman commits murder,
and when the officers of the law undertake to arrest, try, and punish him commensurate with
the enormity of his crime, he straightens himself up to his full height and defiantly says
to them: "Let me alone; I will not be arrested, I will not be tried, I'll have none of the
execution of your laws, and in the event you attempt to execute your laws upon me, I will see
to it many more men, women, or children are murdered."

Here's the plain letter of the Constitution, the plain, simple, sworn duty of every member
of Congress; yet these gentlemen from the South say "Yes, we have violated your Constitution
of the nation; we regarded it as a local necessity; and now, if you undertake to punish us
as the Constitution prescribes, we will see to it that our former deeds of disloyalty to that
instrument, our former acts of disfranchisement and opposition to the highest law of the land
will be repeated manifoldly."

Not content with all that has been done to the black man, not because of any deeds that he
has done, Mr. Underwood advances the startling information that these people have been thrust
upon the whites of the South, forgetting, perhaps, the horrors of the slave-trade, the unspeakable
horrors of the transit from the shores of Africa by means of the middle passage to the American
clime; the enforced bondage of the blacks and their descendants for two and a half centuries
in the United States. Now, for the first time perhaps in the history of our lives, the information
comes that these poor, helpless, and in the main inoffensive people were thrust upon our Southern
brethren.

* * * * *

If the gentleman to whom I have referred will pardon me, I would like to advance the statement
that the musty records of 1868, filed away in the archives of Southern capitols, as to what
the Negro was thirty-two years ago, is not a proper standard by which the Negro living on the
threshold of the twentieth century should be measured. Since that time we have reduced the
illiteracy of the race at least 45 per cent. We have written and published near 500 books.
We have nearly 300 newspapers, 3 of which are dailies. We have now in practise over 2,000 lawyers
and a corresponding number of doctors. We have accumulated over $12,000,000 worth of school
property and about $40,000,000 worth of church property. We have 32,000 teachers in the schools
of the country; we have built, with the aid of our friends, about 20,000 churches, and support
7 colleges, 17 academies, 50 high schools, 5 law schools, 5 medical schools, and 25 theological
seminaries. We have over 600,000 acres of land in the South alone. The cotton produced, mainly
by black labor, has increased from 4,669,770 bales in 1860 to 11,235,000 in 1899. All this
we have done under the most adverse circumstances. We have done it in the face of lynching,
burning at the stake, with the humiliation of "Jim Crow" cars, the disfranchisement of our
male citizens, slander and degradation of our women, with the factories closed against us,
no Negro permitted to be conductor on the railway-cars, whether run through the streets of
our cities or across the prairies of our great country, no Negro permitted to run as engineer
on a locomotive, most of the mines closed against us. Labor-unions--carpenters, painters, brick-masons,
machinists, hackmen, and those supplying nearly every conceivable avocation for livelihood
have banded themselves together to better their condition, but, with few exceptions, the black
face has been left out. The Negroes are seldom employed in our mercantile stores. At this we
do not wonder. Some day we hope to have them employed in our own stores. With all these odds
against us, we are forging our way ahead, slowly, perhaps, but surely. You tie us and then
taunt us for a lack of bravery, but one day we will break the bonds. You may use our labor
for two and a half centuries and then taunt us for our poverty, but let me remind you we will
not always remain poor. You may withhold even the knowledge of how to read God's word and learn
the way from earth to glory and then taunt us for our ignorance, but we would remind you that
there is plenty of room at the top, and we are climbing.

After enforced debauchery, with the many kindred horrors incident to slavery, it comes with
ill grace from the perpetrators of these deeds to hold up the shortcomings of some of our race
to ridicule and scorn.

"The new man, the slave who has grown out of the ashes of thirty-five years ago, is inducted
into the political and social system, cast into the arena of manhood, where he constitutes
a new element and becomes a competitor for all its emoluments. He is put upon trial to test
his ability to be counted worthy of freedom, worthy of the elective franchise; and after thirty-five
years of struggling against almost insurmountable odds, under conditions but little removed
from slavery itself, he asks a fair and just judgment, not of those whose prejudice has endeavored
to forestall, to frustrate his every forward movement, rather those who have lent a helping
hand, that he might demonstrate the truth of 'the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man.'"

* * * * *

Now, Mr. Chairman, before concluding my remarks I want to submit a brief recipe for the solution
of the so-called American Negro problem. He asks no special favors, but simply demands that
he be given the same chance for existence, for earning a livelihood, for raising himself in
the scales of manhood and womanhood that are accorded to kindred nationalities. Treat him as
a man; go into his home and learn of his social conditions; learn of his cares, his troubles,
and his hopes for the future; gain his confidence; open the doors of industry to him; let the
word "Negro," "colored," and "black" be stricken from all the organizations enumerated in the
federation of labor.

Help him to overcome his weaknesses, punish the crime-committing class by the courts of the
land, measure the standard of the race by its best material, cease to mold prejudicial and
unjust public sentiment against him, and my word for it, he will learn to support, hold up
the hands of, and join in with that political party, that institution, whether secular or religious,
in every community where he lives, which is destined to do the greatest good for the greatest
number. Obliterate race hatred, party prejudice, and help us to achieve nobler ends, greater
results, and become more satisfactory citizens to our brother in white.

This, Mr. Chairman, is perhaps the Negroes' temporary farewell to the American Congress; but
let me say, Ph[oe]nix-like he will rise up some day and come again. These parting words are
in behalf of an outraged, heart-broken, bruised, and bleeding, but God-fearing people, faithful,
industrious, loyal people--rising people, full of potential force.

Mr. Chairman, in the trial of Lord Bacon, when the court disturbed the counsel for the defendant,
Sir Walter Raleigh raised himself up to his full height and, addressing the court, said:

    "Sir, I am pleading for the life of a human being."

The only apology that I have to make for the earnestness with which I have spoken is that I
am pleading for the life, the liberty, the future happiness, and manhood-suffrage for one-eight
of the entire population of the United States.

THE NEGRO'S PART IN THE REDEMPTION OF AFRICA[29]

BY LEVI J. COPPIN,

Bishop A. M. E. Church

[Note 29: Delivered at Cape Town, South Africa, February 1902.]

The land once lying in darkness, but now fast coming to the light, is claiming the best thought
and the best energies of the civilized world.

Africa, on account of a lack of coast indentations, has been the last among the continents
to be penetrated by the beneficent influence of commerce; and this largely accounts for that
long obscurity, during which it was given the name, the "Dark Continent."

Its situation beneath the line of the Equator has had also something to do with staying the
onward march of civilization from without. The world learned first to think only of the enervating
influence of a torrid sun upon the inhabitants of the great continent, and this was not inviting
to immigration.

Nations have reached their highest and best development, not by isolation, but by taking advantage
of whatever of good they found among others. But as the years and centuries have passed, it
has dawned upon the world that Africa enjoys the unique distinction of occupying a place in
three zones, and hence offering the largest variety of climatic influences that are favorable
to life and health.

Abounding in mineral wealth, with millions of acres suitable for agriculture, and with immense
forests of valuable wood; with palm oil, ivory, and other desirable products, Africa is now
being sought by the world's capital, and is giving rich rewards to combined capital and labor.

But what of her peoples? When as a Christian Church we speak of the redemption of Africa, we
do not refer to her material resources chiefly, though these are a means to an end. The one
supreme thought with us is, how the millions of her inhabitants may be reached by the light
of the gospel and saved. In their isolated condition, the people have for long centuries become
the victims of customs and habits not in keeping with the better life which is the result only
of Christian civilization. The customs and habits formed and fixed by centuries cannot be thoroughly
changed by a few years of effort. The success already attained by missionary enterprise in
Africa is not to be measured by the years of effort it has cost, nor by the amount of money
expended. Missionary records from other fields will fully justify this statement. In all such
work we may expect to have the exemplification of nature's course, "first the blade, then the
ear; after that, the full corn in the ear."

One hundred and sixty-six years have passed since the Moravians, as pioneer Protestant missionaries
began work on the Gold Coast. From 1736 to 1832, much effort was expended by a number of societies
on the West Coast, during which more or less progress was made, accompanied with no little
sacrifice, and a large death-roll of missionaries. But, at this time the missionary field is
no longer confined to any particular section of Africa. The missionary has followed in the
wake of the explorer and planted his stations. In South Africa the work is most hopeful. In
West Africa, the foothold is permanent; in Central Africa the work proceeds, and is not likely
to stop until every tribe shall read the story of the Cross in his own dialect.

Those missionaries who have studied the native tongues--of which there are many--and translated
the Bible in the vernacular of various tribes, have done a work that is of inestimable value.
The difficulty of language, is, after all, the greatest obstacle in evangelistic progress in
Africa. If there were but one tongue to contend with, the work of the Missionary would be comparatively
easy; but there are many tongues. In my own district in South Africa, we have the Bible in
three native dialects, namely: the Zulu, Bechauna, and the so-called Kaffir. Besides these,
we have the Dutch as well as the English Bible.

So much has been accomplished by missionaries, and at so great a sacrifice, that it seems quite
out of place to suggest a criticism or complaint, and yet all the Christian workers should
be ready to receive any suggestion that would help them to achieve better results.

In carrying the Gospel to an unenlightened people, there is a strong temptation to emphasize
unduly the commercial element that very naturally accompanies it. Civilization and evangelization
must go hand in hand, but the greater importance should always be given to the work of evangelization.
In our highest civilization are to be found objectionable and hurtful elements, and these are
likely to be the first to intrude themselves upon an unsuspecting people.

It is ever to be regretted, that the civilization that opened the way for the missionary, also
gave an opportunity for the introduction of evils, among which none have wrought greater harm
than the introduction of alcoholic beverages.

To what extent, anyone directly connected with Missionary enterprise has ever been responsible
for such a sad result, we do not know; but it does seem evident that the idea of pecuniary
gain has not always been kept away from the Missionary field. The acquisition of lands for
other than ecclesiastical purposes, and traffic in native products, offer a great temptation
to the Missionary, some of whom have availed themselves of these advantages, to the detriment
of their legitimate work. It is not always an easy thing for one to become so forgetful of
himself in his efforts to bless others as to be in his life, and work a perfect exemplar of
the Divine Master, whose Kingdom he seeks to promote, but whose Kingdom is not of this world.

Professor Drummond, in a speech in 1888, among other important statements upon foreign missionary
works, made the following: "I was taught to believe that the essential to a missionary was
strong faith. I have since learned that it is more essential for him to have strong love. I
was taught, out there in the missionary field, that he needed to have great knowledge. I have
learned that, more than knowledge even, is required personal character. I have met men in mission
fields in different parts of the world who could make zealous addresses, at evangelistic meetings
at home, who left for their fields of labor, laden with testimonials from churches and Sunday-schools,
but who became utterly demoralized within a year's time, because they had not learned that
love is a greater thing than faith. That is a neglected part of a Missionary's education, it
seems to me, and yet it is a most essential one. I would say that the thing to be certain of
in picking out a man for such a field as Africa, where the strain upon a man's character is
tremendous, and the strain upon his spiritual life owing to the isolation, is more tremendous,
that we must be sure that we are sending a man of character and heart; morally sound to the
core, with a large and brotherly sympathy for the native." These are the words of Professor
Drummond, and in my opinion he spoke the exact truth; and in making this quotation, I am glad
that it is from such an eminent authority; one who could have no sinister motives for such
utterances. He does not arraign the missionaries as a whole but frankly states some thing that
he had learned from observation.

The native African, as a rule, is virtuous and honest. The uncivilized tribes, in striving
for the mastery among themselves, commit many acts that would not be approved by the rules
governing modern warfare: deeds of cruelty, that made the need of the Gospel among them imperative.
But, in their individual lives, free from the exciting influence of war they have rules and
customs governing their home life that are entirely in keeping with the highest state of Christian
civilization. To them, polygamy is not a sinful practise. Without light beyond that which comes
from their own fireside, they do not see the necessity of breaking away from a practise that
is peculiar to mankind in the earliest stages of social life. But they hold tenaciously to
the rule, that all men and all women among them must respect the matrimonial customs by which
they are governed. These customs cannot be violated with impunity, and the penalty for such
violations is often death. They are disposed to be true to their professions, and faithful
in what they believe. When they are persuaded that there is a better life, and induced to embrace
it, they bring with them their characteristic sincerity. How great, then, is the need of missionaries
who will not, by the deplorable example set by their own unfaithfulness and insincerity, lower
the standard of the native.

The spirit which impels one to work in the foreign field generally leaves him without a choice
as to post of duty. The first thought to him is: "Lord what wilt Thou have me to do?" And hence
the missionary goes forth without questioning the race variety among which his lot should be
cast. But in this day of systematic method even in Christian effort, and when missionaries
from every race variety are being prepared for the work, I think it would not be out of place
to maintain a closer respect for the laws of adaptation and fitness.

* * * * *

The religious field, and especially the great continent of Africa, seems to offer the greatest
opportunity for the man of color to do his best work. As we stand in the open door of a new
century, God is calling us to new duties and responsibilities. The preparation for this work
was through a school of hard experiences, but perhaps the trials were no harder than those
which had been borne by others. We waited long for the call to take our place among other agencies
for the redemption of the world; and now that it has come, we have no time nor disposition
to brood over past experiences. Our business is now with the exacting present, and the portentious
future, and we must adjust ourselves to the new situation.

God is calling men of every race and clime to take a part in the world's redemption and face
the responsibilities that come with the unfolding years. If we are found ready and willing
to take our place, then may we claim the promise of His presence and help: but, if we are found
to be unwilling, and unworthy, the call may not come to us again.

    "Stretch forth thy hand; Jehovah bids thee come
    And claim the promise; thou hast had thy doom,
    If forth in sorrow, weeping, thou hast gone,
    Rejoicing to thy God thou shalt return.

    "Stretch forth thy hand, no longer doubt, arise;
    Look! See the 'signo' in the vaulted skies!
    Greet the new century with faith sublime,
    For God is calling now, this is thy time.

    "Stretch forth thy hand to God, the night is past;
    The morning cometh, thou art free at last.
    No brigands draw thee from thy peaceful home,
    But messengers of love to greet thee come.

    "Stretch forth thy hand to kindred o'er the sea;
    Our cause is one, and brothers still are we.
    Bone of our bone, one destiny we claim;
    Flesh of our flesh, thy God and ours the same.

    "Stretch forth thy hand: "What tho' the heathen rage"
    And fiends of darkness all their wrath engage.
    The hand of God still writes upon the wall,
    "Thy days are numbered; all the proud shall fall."

    "Stretch forth thy hand, nor yet in terror flee;
    Thick darkness but a swaddling-band shall be
    The waves and billows which thy way oppose
    Shall in their bosom bury all thy foes.

    "Stretch forth thy hand to God, 'tis not for thee
    To question aught, nor all his purpose see.
    The hand that led thee through the dreary night
    Does not thy counsel need when comes the light.

    "Stretch forth thy hand; stretch forth thy hand to God;
    Nor falter thou, nor stumble at His word.
    And if in service thou shalt faithful be,
    His promise of salvation thou shalt see."

A PLEA FOR INDUSTRIAL OPPORTUNITY[30]

BY FANNY JACKSON COPPIN

FANNY MIRIAM JACKSON COPPIN, the first Negro woman in America to graduate from college--Oberlin,
1865. From 1837 to 1902, teacher and principal of the Institute for Colored Youth in Philadelphia.

[Note 30: Delivered at a fair in Philadelphia, held in the interest of the Christian Recorder.]

The great lesson to be taught by this Fair is the value of co-operative effort to make our
cents dollars, and to show us what help there is for ourselves in ourselves. That the colored
people of this country have enough money to materially alter their financial condition, was
clearly demonstrated by the millions of dollars deposited in the Freedmen's Bank; that they
have the good sense, and the unanimity to use this power, are now proved by this industrial
exhibition and fair.

It strikes me that much of the recent talk about the exodus has proceeded upon the high-handed
assumption that, owing largely to the credit system of the South, the colored people there
are forced to the alternative, to "curse God, and die," or else "go West." Not a bit of it.
The people of the South, it is true, cannot at this time produce hundreds of dollars, but they
have millions of pennies; and millions of pennies make tens of thousands of dollars. By clubbing
together and lumping their pennies, a fund might be raised in the cities of the South that
the poorer classes might fall back upon while their crops are growing; or else, by the opening
of co-operative stores, become their own creditors and so effectually rid themselves of their
merciless extortioners. "Oh, they won't do anything; you can't get them united on anything!"
is frequently expressed. The best way for a man to prove that he can do a thing is to do it,
and that is what we have shown we can do. This Fair, participated in by twenty four States
in the Union, and gotten up for a purpose which is of no pecuniary benefit to those concerned
in it, effectually silences all slanders about "we won't or we can't do," and teaches its own
instructive and greatly needed lessons of self-help,--the best help that any man can have,
next to God's.

Those in charge, who have completed the arrangement of the Fair, have studiously avoided preceding
it with noisy and demonstrative babblings, which are so often the vapid precursors of promises
as empty as those who make them; therefore, in some quarters, our Fair has been overlooked.
It is not, we think, a presumptuous interpretation of this great movement, to say, that the
voice of God now seems to utter "Speak to the people that they go forward." "Go forward" in
what respect? Teach the millions of poor colored laborers of the South how much power they
have in themselves, by co-operation of effort, and by a combination of their small means, to
change the despairing poverty which now drives them from their homes, and makes them a millstone
around the neck of any community, South or West. Secondly, that we shall go forward in asking
to enter the same employments which other people enter. Within the past ten years we have made
almost no advance in getting our youth into industrial and business occupations. It is just
as hard for instance, to get a boy into a printing-office now as it was ten years ago. It is
simply astonishing when we consider how many of the common vocations of life colored people
are shut out of. Colored men are not admitted to the printers' trade-union, nor, with very
rare exceptions are they employed in any city of the United States in a paid capacity as printers
or writers; one of the rare exceptions being the employment of H. Price Williams, on the Sunday
Press of this city. We are not employed as salesmen or pharmacists, or saleswomen, or bank
clerks, or merchants' clerks, or tradesmen, or mechanics, or telegraph operators, or to any
degree as State or government officials, and I could keep on with the string of "ors" until
to-morrow morning, but the patience of an audience has its limit.

Slavery made us poor, and its gloomy, malicious shadow tends to keep us so. I beg to say, kind
hearers, that this is not spoken in a spirit of recrimination. We have no quarrel with our
fate, and we leave your Christianity to yourselves. Our faith is firmly fixed in that "Eternal
Providence," that in its own good time will "justify the ways of God to man." But, believing
that to get the right men into the right places is a "consummation most devoutly to be wished,"
it is a matter of serious concern to us to see our youth with just as decided diversity of
talent as any other people, herded together into but three or four occupations.

It is cruel to make a teacher or a preacher of a man who ought to be a printer or a blacksmith,
and that is exactly the condition we are now obliged to submit to. The greatest advance that
has been made since the War has been effected by political parties, and it is precisely the
political positions that we think it least desirable our youth should fill. We have our choice
of the professions, it is true, but, as we have not been endowed with an overwhelming abundance
of brains, it is not probable that we can contribute to the bar a great lawyer except once
in a great while. The same may be said of medicine; nor are we able to tide over the "starving
time," between the reception of a diploma and the time that a man's profession becomes a paying
one.

Being determined to know whether this industrial and business ostracism lay in ourselves or
"in our stars," we have from time to time, knocked, shaken, and kicked, at these closed doors
of employment. A cold, metallic voice from within replies, "We do not employ colored people."
Ours not to make reply, ours not to question why. Thank heaven, we are not obliged to do and
die; having the preference to do or die, we naturally prefer to do.

But we cannot help wondering if some ignorant or faithless steward of God's work and God's
money hasn't blundered. It seems necessary that we should make known to the good men and women
who are so solicitous about our souls, and our minds, that we haven't quite got rid of our
bodies yet, and until we do, we must feed and clothe them; and this attitude of keeping us
out of work forces us back upon charity.

That distinguished thinker, Mr. Henry C. Carey, in his valuable works on political economy,
has shown by the truthful and forceful logic of history, that the elevation of all peoples
to a higher moral and intellectual plane, and to a fuller investiture of their civil rights,
has always steadily kept pace with the improvement in their physical condition. Therefore we
feel that resolutely and in unmistakable language, yet in the dignity of moderation, we should
strive to make known to all men the justice of our claims to the same employments as other's
under the same conditions. We do not ask that anyone of our people shall be put into a position
because he is a colored person, but we do most emphatically ask that he shall not be kept out
of a position because he is a colored person. "An open field and no favors" is all that is
requested. The time was when to put a colored girl or boy behind a counter would have been
to decrease custom; it would have been a tax upon the employer, and a charity that we were
too proud to accept; but public sentiment has changed. I am satisfied that the employment of
a colored clerk or a colored saleswoman wouldn't even be a "nine days' wonder." It is easy
of accomplishment, and yet it is not. To thoughtless and headstrong people who meet duty with
impertinent dictation I do not now address myself; but to those who wish the most gracious
of all blessings, a fuller enlightment as to their duty,--to those I beg to say, think of what
is suggested in this appeal.

AN APPEAL TO OUR BROTHER IN WHITE[31]

BY W. J. GAINES, D. D.

Bishop of the A.M.E. Church in Georgia

[Note 31: From "The Negro and the White Man," 1897.]

Providence, in wisdom, has decreed that the lot of the Negro should be cast with the white
people of America. Condemn as we may the means through which we were brought here, recount
as we may the suffering through which, as a race, we passed in the years of slavery, yet the
fact remains that today our condition is far in advance of that of the Negroes who have never
left their native Africa. We are planted in the midst of the highest civilization mankind has
ever known, and are rapidly advancing in knowledge, property, and moral enlightenment. We might,
with all reason, thank God even for slavery, if this were the only means through which we could
arrive at our present progress and development.

We should indeed count ourselves blest if our white brethren would always extend to us that
kindness, justice, and sympathy which our services to them in the past should inspire, and
our dependence upon them as the more enlightened and wealthy race should prompt them to bestow.

Why should there be prejudice and dislike on the part of the white man to his colored brother?
Is it because he was once a slave, and a slave must forever wear the marks of degradation?
Is there no effacement for the stigma of slavery--no erasement for this blot of shame? Will
our white brother not remember that it was his hand that forged the links of that chain and
that riveted them around the necks of the people who had roved for thousands of years in the
unrestrained liberty of the boundless forests in far-away Africa? As well might the seducer
blacken the name and reputation of the fair and spotless maiden he has cruelly and wantonly
seduced. Go far enough back and it is more than probable that you will find the taint of slavery
in your line and its blot upon your escutcheon. The proud Saxon became the slave to the Norman,
and yet to-day millions are proud to be called Anglo-Saxons.

Will our white brother refuse us his cordial fellowship because of our ignorance? Ignorance
is indeed a great evil and hindrance. The enlightened and refined cannot find fellowship with
the ignorant, the benighted, the untutored. If this be the line of demarkation, we can and
will remove it. No people ever made more heroic efforts to rise from ignorance to enlightenment.
Forty-three per cent. of the Negro race can read and write, and with time we can bring our
race up to a high degree of civilization. We are determined, by the help of Providence, and
the strength of our own right arms, to educate our people until the reproach of ignorance can
no longer be brought against us. When we do, will our white brothers accord that respect which
is the due of intelligence and culture?

