"I remember," continued the other, "an old fellow who used to live out in the country near
me. He was not so very old, either, but he looked it. He had to be pushed around in a wheel-chair.
People said he had locomotor ataxia, but that really meant syphilis. We boys used to poke all
kinds of fun at him because one windy day his hat and his wig were blown off together, and
we discovered that he was as bald as an egg. We used to make jokes about his automobile, as
we called it. It had a little handle in front, instead of a steering-wheel, and a man behind
to push, instead of an engine."

"How horrible!" remarked George with genuine feeling.

"I remember the poor devil had a paralysis soon after," continued the friend, quite carelessly.
"He could not steer any more, and also he lost his voice. When you met him he would look at
you as it he thought he was talking, but all he could say was 'Ga-ga-ga'."

George went away from this conversation in a cold sweat. He told himself over and over again
that he was a fool, but still he could not get the hellish idea out of his mind. He found himself
brooding over it all day and lying awake at night, haunted by images of himself in a wheel-chair,
and without any hair on his head. He realized that the sensible thing would be for him to go
to a doctor and make certain about his condition; but he could not bring himself to face the
ordeal--he was ashamed to admit to a doctor that he had laid himself open to such a taint.

He began to lose the radiant expression from his round and rosy face. He had less appetite,
and his moods of depression became so frequent that he could not hide then even from Henriette.
She asked him once or twice if there were not something the matter with him, and he laughed--a
forced and hurried laugh--and told her that he had sat up too late the night before, worrying
over the matter of his examinations. Oh, what a cruel thing it was that a man who stood in
the very gateway of such a garden of delight should be tormented and made miserable by this
loathsome idea!

The disturbing symptom still continued, and so at last George purchased a medical book, dealing
with the subject of the disease. Then, indeed, he opened up a chamber of horrors; he made up
his mind an abiding place of ghastly images. In the book there were pictures of things so awful
that he turned white, and trembled like a leaf, and had to close the volume and hide it in
the bottom of his trunk. But he could not banish the pictures from his mind. Worst of all,
he could not forget the description of the first symptom of the disease, which seemed to correspond
exactly with his own. So at last he made up his mind he must ascertain definitely the truth
about his condition.

He began to think over plans for seeing a doctor. He had heard somewhere a story about a young
fellow who had fallen into the hands of a quack, and been ruined forever. So he decided that
he would consult only the best authority.

He got the names of the best-known works on the subject from a bookstore, and found that the
author of one of these books was practicing in Paris as a specialist. Two or three days elapsed
before he was able to get up the courage to call on this doctor. And oh, the shame and horror
of sitting in his waiting-room with the other people, none of whom dared to look each other
in the eyes! They must all be afflicted, George thought, and he glanced at them furtively,
looking for the various symptoms of which he had read. Or were there, perhaps, some like himself--merely
victims of a foolish error, coming to have the hag of dread pulled from off their backs?

And then suddenly, while he was speculating, there stood the doctor, signaling to him. His
turn had come!

CHAPTER II

The doctor was a man about forty years of age, robust, with every appearance of a strong character.
In the buttonhole of the frock coat he wore was a red rosette, the decoration of some order.
Confused and nervous as George was, he got a vague impression of the physician's richly furnished
office, with its bronzes, marbles and tapestries.

The doctor signaled to the young man to be seated in the chair before his desk. George complied,
and then, as he wiped away the perspiration from his forehead, stammered out a few words, explaining
his errand. Of course, he said, it could not be true, but it was a man's duty not to take any
chances in such a matter. "I have not been a man of loose life," he added; "I have not taken
so many chances as other men."

The doctor cut him short with the brief remark that one chance was all that was necessary.
Instead of discussing such questions, he would make an examination. "We do not say positively
in these cases until we have made a blood test. That is the one way to avoid the possibility
of mistake."

A drop of blood was squeezed out of George's finger on to a little glass plate. The doctor
retired to an adjoining room, and the victim sat alone in the office, deriving no enjoyment
from the works of art which surrounded him, but feeling like a prisoner who sits in the dock
with his life at stake while the jury deliberates.

The doctor returned, calm and impassive, and seated himself in his office-chair.

"Well, doctor?" asked George. He was trembling with terror.

"Well," was the reply, "there is no doubt whatever."

George wiped his forehead. He could not credit the words. "No doubt whatever? In what sense?"

"In the bad sense," said the other.

He began to write a prescription, without seeming to notice how George turned page with terror.
"Come," he said, after a silence, "you must have known the truth pretty well."

"No, no, sir!" exclaimed George.

"Well," said the other, "you have syphilis."

George was utterly stunned. "My God!" he exclaimed.

The doctor, having finished his prescription, looked up and observed his condition. "Don't
trouble yourself, sir. Out of every seven men you meet upon the street, in society, or at the
theater, there is at least one who has been in your condition. One out of seven--fifteen per cent!"

George was staring before him. He spoke low, as if to himself. "I know what I am going to do."

"And I know also," said the doctor, with a smile. "There is your prescription. You are going
to take it to the drugstore and have it put up."

George took the prescription, mechanically, but whispered, "No, sir."

"Yes, sir, you are going to do as everybody else does."

"No, because my situation is not that of everybody else. I know what I am going to do."

Said the doctor: "Five times out of ten, in the chair where you are sitting, people talk like
that, perfectly sincerely. Each one believes himself more unhappy than all the others; but
after thinking it over, and listening to me, they understand that this disease is a companion
with whom one can live. Just as in every household, one gets along at the cost of mutual concessions,
that's all. Come, sir, I tell you again, there is nothing about it that is not perfectly ordinary,
perfectly natural, perfectly common; it is an accident which can happen to any one. It is a
great mistake that people speak if this as the 'French Disease,' for there is none which is
more universal. Under the picture of this disease, addressing myself to those who follow the
oldest profession in the world, I would write the famous phrase: 'Here is your master. It is,
it was, or it must be.'"

George was putting the prescription into the outside pocket of his coat, stupidly, as if he
did not know what he was doing. "But, sir," he exclaimed, "I should have been spared!"

"Why?" inquired the other. "Because you are a man of position, because you are rich? Look around
you, sir. See these works of art in my room. Do you imagine that such things have been presented
to me by chimney-sweeps?"

"But, Doctor," cried George, with a moan, "I have never been a libertine. There was never any
one, you understand me, never any one could have been more careful in his pleasures. If I were
to tell you that in all my life I have only had two mistresses, what would you answer to that?"

"I would answer, that a single one would have been sufficient to bring you to me."

"No, sir!" cried George. "It could not have been either of those women." He went on to tell
the doctor about his first mistress, and then about Lizette. Finally he told about Henriette,
how much he adored her. He could really use such a word--he loved her most tenderly. She was
so good--and he had thought himself so lucky!

As he went on, he could hardly keep from going to pieces. "I had everything," he exclaimed,
"everything a man needed! All who knew me envied me. And then I had to let those fellows drag
me off to that miserable supper-party! And now here I am! My future is ruined, my whole existence
poisoned! What is to become of me? Everybody will avoid me--I shall be a pariah, a leper!"

He paused, and then in sudden wild grief exclaimed, "Come, now! Would it not be better that
I should take myself out of the way? At least, I should not suffer any more. You see that there
could not be any one more unhappy than myself--not any one, I tell you, sir, not any one!"
Completely overcome, he began to weep in his handkerchief.

The doctor got up, and went to him. "You must be a man," he said, "and not cry like a child."

"But sir," cried the young man, with tears running down his cheeks, "if I had led a wild life,
if I had passed my time in dissipation with chorus girls, then I could understand it. Then
I would say that I had deserved it."

The doctor exclaimed with emphasis, "No, no! You would not say it. However, it is of no matter--go
on."

"I tell you that I would say it. I am honest, and I would say that I had deserved it. But no,
I have worked, I have been a regular grind. And now, when I think of the shame that is in store
for me, the disgusting things, the frightful catastrophes to which I am condemned--"

"What is all this you are telling me?" asked the doctor, laughing.

"Oh, I know, I know!" cried the other, and repeated what his friend had told him about the
man in a wheel-chair. "And they used to call me handsome Raoul! That was my name--handsome Raoul!"

"Now, my dear sir," said the doctor, cheerfully, "wipe your eyes one last time, blow your nose,
put your handkerchief into your pocket, and hear me dry-eyed."

George obeyed mechanically. "But I give you fair warning," he said, "you are wasting your time."

"I tell you--" began the other.

"I know exactly what you are going to tell me!" cried George.

"Well, in that case, there is nothing more for you to do here--run along."

"Since I am here," said the patient submissively, "I will hear you."

"Very well, then. I tell you that if you have the will and the perseverance, none of the things
you fear will happen to you."

"Of course, it is your duty to tell me that."

"I will tell you that there are one hundred thousand like you in Paris, alert, and seemingly
well. Come, take what you were just saying--wheel-chairs. One doesn't see so many of them."

"No, that's true," said George.

"And besides," added the doctor, "a good many people who ride in them are not there for the
cause you think. There is no more reason why you should be the victim of a catastrophe than
any of the one hundred thousand. The disease is serious, nothing more."

"You admit that it is a serious disease?" argued George.

"Yes."

"One of the most serious?"

"Yes, but you have the good fortune--"

"The GOOD fortune?"

"Relatively, if you please. You have the good fortune to be infected with one of the diseases
over which we have the most certain control."

