Baron Tschoudy, however, declares that all this stops short of the truth, that Freemasonry
originated long before the Crusades in Palestine, and that the real "ancestors, fathers, authors
of the Masons, those illustrious men of whom I will not say the date nor betray the secret,"
were a "disciplined body" whom Tschoudy describes by the name of "the Knights of the Aurora
and Palestine." After "the almost total destruction of the Jewish people" these "Knights" had
always hoped to regain possession of the domains of their fathers and to rebuild the Temple,
and they carefully preserved their "regulations and particular liturgy," together with a "sublime
treatise" which was the object of their continual study and of their philosophical speculations.
Tschoudy further relates that they were students of the "occult sciences," of which alchemy
formed a part, and that they had "abjured the principles of the Jewish religion in order to
follow the lights of the Christian faith." At the time of the Crusades the Knights of Palestine
came out from the desert of the Thebaïd, where they had remained hidden, and joined to themselves
some of the crusaders who had remained in Jerusalem. Declaring that they were the descendants
of the masons who had worked on the Temple of Solomon, they professed to concern themselves
with "speculative architecure," which served to disguise a more glorious point of view. From
this time they took the name of Free Masons, presented themselves under this title to the crusading
armies and assembled under their banners.[373]

It would of course be absurd to regard any of the foregoing accounts as historical facts; the
important point is that they tend to prove the fallacy of supposing that the Johannite-Templar
theory originated with the revived Ordre du Temple, since one corresponding to it so closely
was current in the middle of the preceding century. It is true that in these earlier accounts
the actual words "Johannite" and "Templar" do not occur, but the resemblance between the sect
of Jews professing the Christian faith but possessing a "particular liturgy" and a "sublime
treatise"--apparently some early form of the Cabala--dealing with occult science, and the Mandæans
or Johannites with their Cabalistic "Book of Adam," their Book of John, and their ritual, is
at once apparent. Further, the allusions to the connexion between the Knights who had been
indoctrinated in the Holy Land and the Scottish lodges coincides exactly with the Templar tradition,
published not only by the Ordre du Temple but handed down in the Royal Order of Scotland.

From all this the following facts stand out: (1) that whilst British Craft Masonry traced its
origin to the operative guilds of masons, the Freemasons of France from 1737 onwards placed
the origin of the Order in crusading chivalry; (2) that it was amongst these Freemasons that
the upper degrees known as the Scottish Rite arose; and (3) that, as we shall now see, these
degrees clearly suggest Templar inspiration.

The earliest form of the upper degrees appears to have been the one given by de Bérage, as follows:

    1. Parfait Maçon Élu.
    2. Élu de Perignan.
    3. Élu des Quinze.
    4. Petit Architecte.
    5. Grand Architecte.
    6. Chevalier de l'Épée et de Rose-Croix.
    7. Noachite ou Chevalier Prussien.

The first of these to make its appearance is believed to have been the one here assigned to
the sixth place. This degree known in modern Masonry as "Prince of the Rose-Croix of Heredom
or Knight of the Pelican and Eagle" became the eighteenth and the most important degree in
what was later called the Scottish Rite, or at the present time in England the Ancient and
Accepted Rite.

Why was this Rite called Scottish? "It cannot be too strongly insisted on," says Mr. Gould,
"that all Scottish Masonry has nothing whatever to do with the Grand Lodge of Scotland, nor,
with one possible exception--that of the Royal Order of Scotland--did it ever originate in
that country."[374] But in the case of the Rose-Croix degree there is surely some justification
for the term in legend, if not in proven fact, for, as we have already seen, according to the
tradition of the Royal Order of Scotland this degree had been contained in it since the fourteenth
century, when the degrees of H.R.M. (Heredom) and R.S.Y.C.S. (Rosy Cross) are said to have
been instituted by Robert Bruce in collaboration with the Templars after the battle of Bannockburn.
Dr. Mackey is one of the few Masons who admit this probable affiliation, and in referring to
the tradition of the Royal Order of Scotland observes: "From that Order it seems to us by no
means improbable that the present degree of Rose-Croix de Heredom may have taken its origin."[375]

But the Rose-Croix degree, like the Templar tradition from which it appears to have descended,
is capable of a dual interpretation, or rather of a multiple interpretation, for no degree
in Masonry has been subject to so many variations. That on the Continent it had descended through
the Rosicrucians in an alchemical form seems more than probable. It would certainly be difficult
to believe that a degree of R.S.Y.C.S. was imported from the East and incorporated in the Royal
Order of Scotland in 1314; that by a mere coincidence a man named Christian Rosenkreutz was--according
to the Rosicrucian legend--born in the same century and transmitted a secret doctrine he had
discovered in the East to the seventeenth-century Brethren of the Rosy Cross; and finally,
that a degree of the Rose-Croix was founded in circ. 1741 without any connexion existing between
these succeeding movements. Even if we deny direct affiliation, we must surely admit a common
source of inspiration producing, if not a continuation, at any rate a periodic revival of the
same ideas. Dr. Oliver indeed admits affiliation between the seventeenth-century fraternity
and the eighteenth-century degree, and after pointing out that the first indication of the
Rose-Croix degree appears in the Fama Fraternitatis in 1613, goes on to say:

     It was known much sooner, although not probably as a degree in
     Masonry, for it existed as a cabalistic science from the earliest
     times in Egypt, Greece, and Rome, as well as amongst the Jews and
     Moors in times more recent, and in our own country the names of
     Roger Bacon, Fludd, Ashmole, and many others are found in its list
     of adepts.[376]

Dr. Mackey, quoting this passage, observes that "Oliver confounds the masonic Rose-Croix with
the alchemical Rosicrucians," and proceeds to give an account of the Rose-Croix degree as worked
in England and America, which he truly describes as "in the strictest sense a Christian degree."[377]
But the point Dr. Mackey overlooks is that this is only one version of the degree, which, as
we shall see later, has been and still is worked in a very different manner on the Continent.

It is, however, certain that the version of the Rose-Croix degree first adopted by the Freemasons
of France in about 1741 was not only so Christian but so Catholic in character as to have given
rise to the belief that it was devised by the Jesuits in order to counteract the attacks of
which Catholicism was the object.[378] In a paper on the Additional Degrees Mr. J.S. Tuckett
writes:

     There is undeniable evidence that in their earliest forms the
     Ecossais or Scots Degrees were Roman Catholic; I have a MS. Ritual
     in French of what I believe to be the original Chev. de l'Aigle
     or S∴P∴D∴R∴C∴ (Souverain Prince de Rose-Croix) and in it the New
     Law is declared to be "la foy Catholique," and the Baron Tschoudy
     in his L'Étoile Flamboyante of 1766 describes the same Degree as
     "le Catholicisme mis en grade" (Vol. I. p. 114). I suggest that
     Ecossais or Scots Masonry was intended to be a Roman Catholic as
     well as a Stuart form of Freemasonry, in which none but those
     devoted to both Restorations were to be admitted.[379]

But is it necessary to read this political intention into the degree? If the tradition of the
Royal Order of Scotland is to be believed, the idea of the Rose-Croix degree was far older
than the Stuart cause, and dated back to Bannockburn, when the degree of Heredom with which
it was coupled was instituted in order "to correct the errors and reform the abuses which had
crept in among the three degrees of St. John's Masonry," and to provide a "Christianized form
of the Third Degree," "purified of the dross of paganism and even of Judaism."[380] Whether
the antiquity attributed to these degrees can be proved or not, it certainly appears probable
that the legend of the Royal Order of Scotland had some foundation in fact, and therefore that
the ideas embodied in the eighteenth-century Rose-Croix degree may have been drawn from the
store of that Order and brought by the Jacobites to France. At the same time there is no evidence
in support of the statement made by certain Continental writers that Ramsay actually instituted
this or any of the upper degrees. On the contrary, in his Oration he expressly states that
Freemasonry is composed of the Craft degrees only:

     We have amongst us three kinds of brothers: Novices or Apprentices,
     Fellows or Professed Brothers, Masters or Perfected Brethren. To
     the first are explained the moral virtues; to the second the heroic
     virtues; to the last the Christian virtues....

It might be said then that the Rose-Croix degree was here foreshadowed in the Masters' degree,
in that the latter definitely inculcated Christianity. This would be perfectly in accord with
Ramsay's point of view as set forth in his account of his conversion by Fénelon. When he first
met the Archbishop of Cambrai in 1710, Ramsay relates that he had lost faith in all Christian
sects and had resolved to "take refuge in a wise Deism limited to respect for the Divinity
and for the immutable ideas of pure virtue," but that his conversation with Fénelon led him
to accept the Catholic faith. And he goes on to show that "Monsieur de Cambrai turned Atheists
into Deists, Deists into Christians, and Christians into Catholics by a sequence of ideas full
of enlightenment and feeling."[381]

Might not this be the process which Ramsay aimed at introducing into Freemasonry--the process
which in fact does form part of the masonic system in England to-day, where the Atheist must
become, at least by profession, a Deist before he can be admitted to the Craft Degrees, whilst
the Rose-Croix degree is reserved solely for those who profess the Christian faith? Such was
undoubtedly the idea of the men who introduced the Rose-Croix degree into France; and Ragon,
who gives an account of this "Ancien Rose-Croix Francais"--which is almost identical with the
degree now worked in England, but long since abandoned in France--objects to it on the very
score of its Christian character.[382]

