493
    Erection of Forts at Michnee and Pylos, by C. Forbes               495
    Hoveden's Annals: Bohn's "Antiquarian Library," by
      James Graves                                                     495
    FOLK LORE:--Raven Superstition--African Folk Lore
      --Funeral Custom                                                 496
    Shakspeare Readings, No. VII.                                      496
    MINOR NOTES:--Portrait of Luther--Randle Wilbraham
      --Unpublished Epigram by Sir W. Scott--Crassus'
      Saying                                                           498

  QUERIES:--
    Bees and the Sphynx atropos, by Sydney Smirke                      499
    "The Craftsman's Apology," by James Crossley                       499
    Palissy and Cardinal Wiseman                                       499
   MINOR QUERIES:--Polidus--St. Paul's Epistles to
      Seneca--Meaning of "folowed"--Roman Catholic
      Registers--St. Alban's Day--Meigham, the London
      Printer--Adamsoniana--Canker or Brier Rose--
      "Short red, god red"--Overseers of Wills--Lepel's
      Regiment--Vincent Family--Passage in the First
      Part of Faust--Lady Anne Gray--Continental Brasses
      --Peter Beaver--Cremonas--Cranmer and Calvin                     499
    MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--"A Letter to a Convocation
      Man"--Prester John--Homer's Iliad in a
      Nut--Monogram of Parker Society--The Five Alls--
      Corvizer                                                         502

  REPLIES:--
    English Comedians in Germany                                       503
    A Gentleman executed for whipping a Slave to Death,
      by Henry H. Breen                                                503
    Longevity                                                          504
    Derivation of Canada, by Robert Wright                             504
    Setantiorum Portus                                                 505
    PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Stereoscopic Queries
      --Photographic Portraits of Criminals, &c.--Photography
      applied to Catalogues of Books--Application
      of Photography to the Microscope                                 505
    REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Discovery At Nuneham
      Regis--Eulenspiegel, or Howleglas--Parochial Libraries
      --Painter--Pepys's "Morena"--Pylades and
      Corinna--Judge Smith--Grindle--Simile of the Soul
      and the Magnetic Needle--English Bishops deprived
      by Queen Elizabeth--Borrowed Thoughts--Dr. South
      v. Goldsmith, Talleyrand, &c.--Foucault's Experiment
      --Passage in "Locksley Hall"--Lake of
      Geneva--"Inter cuncta micans"--"Its"--Gloves
      at Fairs--Astronomical Query--Tortoiseshell Tom
      Cat--Sizain on the Pope, the Devil, and the Pretender
      --Wandering Jew--Hallett and Dr. Saxby--
      "My mind to me a kingdom is"--Claret--Suicide at
      Marseilles--Etymology of Slang--Scanderbeg's Sword
      --Arago on the Weather--Rathe--Carr Pedigree--
      Banbury Cakes--Detached Belfry Towers, &c.                       507

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, &c.                                                513
    Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                       514
    Notices to Correspondents                                          514
    Advertisements                                                     514

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

LORD BACON'S "ADVANCEMENT OF LEARNING."

Considering the large number of quotations from previous writers which occur in Lord Bacon's
works, and especially in his most popular and generally read works--his Essays and his Advancement
of Learning--it is remarkable how little his editors have done for the illustration of his
text in this respect. The French editors of Montaigne's Essays, who is likewise a writer abounding
in quotations, have bestowed much care on this portion of their author's text. The defect in
question has, however, been to a great extent supplied in a recent edition of the Advancement
of Learning, published by Mr. Parker in West Strand; and it is to be hoped that the beginning,
so usefully made, may be followed up by similar editions of other of Bacon's works.

The edition in question, though it traces the great majority of Bacon's quotations, has left
some gleanings to its successors; and I propose now to call attention to a few passages of
the Advancement of Learning which, after the labours of the late editor, seem still to require
further elucidation. My references are to the pages of the new edition:--

    P. 25.

The editor prints Orosius for Osorius, and adds this note:

    "All the editions have Osorius, which, however, must be a mere
    misprint. He was not a Portuguese, but a Spaniard, born at Tarragona,
    nor indeed ever a bishop. He was sent by St. Augustine on a mission to
    Jerusalem, and is supposed to have died in Africa in the earlier part
    of the fifth century."

The text of Bacon is quite right. The allusion is not to Paulus Orosius, a Spaniard, who flourished
at the beginning of the fifth century; but to Jerome Osorio, who was born at Lisbon in 1506,
afterwards became Bishop of Silves, and died in 1580. His works were published at Rome in 1592,
in 4 vols. folio. His principal work, De rebus Emanuelis Virtute et Auspicio gestis, which
first appeared in 1571, was several times reprinted, and was translated into French and English.
{494}

    P. 31. "Time, which is the author of authors."

In Nov. Org., i. 84., Time is called "Auctor auctorum, atque adeo omnis auctoritatis."

    P. 34.

The editor does not attempt to trace this passage. Query, If it is not in Aristotle, where
is it to be found?

    P. 60. "Ulysses, 'Qui vetulam prætulit immortalitati' is a figure of
    those which prefer custom and habit before all excellency."

The editor refers to Cic. de Orat., i. 44., where it is said that such is the love of country,

    "Ut Ithacam illam, in asperrimis saxulis, tanquam nidulum, affixam,
    sapientissimus vir immortalitati anteponeret."

The passage in Cicero does not agree with the dictum quoted by Bacon, which seems to be a reference
to the Odyssey, v. 136. 208-10.

    P. 62. "Claudus in vià antevertit cursorem extra viam."

The same proverb is quoted in Nov. Org., i. 61.

    P. 85. "Omnia mutantur, nil interit"--

from Ovid, Met., xv. 165.

Several passages are cited by Bacon from Seneca, which the editor does not trace.

Page 147.,--

    "Vere magnum habere fragilitatem hominis, securitatem Dei."

The same passage is also quoted by Bacon in Essay V., "On Adversity," and in the treatise De
Sap. Vet., vol. x. p. 343., edit. Montagu.

Again, p. 159.:

    "De partibus vitæ quisque deliberat, de summâ nemo."

Page 152.,--

    "Cogita quamdiu eadem feceris," &c.,

repeated in part in the "Essay on Death."

This last passage is taken, with considerable verbal variations, from Epist. 77. § 6. Nic.,
vi. 3.; but it contains no allusion to Democritus, who is not even named in the Ethics; and
the word which Bacon renders dispute ([Greek: akribologeisthai]) means to speak with precision.

    P. 163. "For as the ancient politiques in popular states were wont to
    compare the people to the sea, and the orators to the winds."

The allusion is to a couplet of Solon:

 "[Greek: ex anemôn de thalassa tarassetai? ên de tis autên]
      [Greek: mê kinêi, pantôn esti dikaiotatê.]"
                  Fragm. i. 8., ed. Gaisford.

And to a passage of Livy (xxviii. 27.):

    "Multitudo omnis, sicut natura maris, per se immobilis est, venti et
    auræ cient."

Compare Babrius, fab. 71.

