"Evil?" quoth she. He had checked in his step, and they stood now side by side.

"Evil," he repeated. "Evil and cruel. It goes to swell the sea that soon shall divide me from
you, and it mocks me, rejoicing wickedly in the pain that will presently be mine."

It took her aback. She laughed, a little breathlessly, to hide her discomposure, and scarce
knew how to answer him, scarce knew whether she took pleasure or offense in his daring encroachment
upon that royal aloofness in which she dwelt, and in which her Spanish rearing had taught her
she must ever dwell.

"Oh, but Monsieur l'Ambassadeur, you will be with us again, perhaps before so very long."

His answer came in a swift, throbbing question, his lips so near her face that she could feel
his breath hot upon her cheek.

"Do you wish it, madame? Do you wish it? I implore you, of your pity, say but that you wish
it, and I will come, though I tear down half a world to reach you."

She recoiled in Wright and displeasure before a wooing so impetuous and violently outspoken;
though the displeasure was perhaps but a passing emotion, the result of early training. Yet
she contrived to answer him with the proper icy dignity due to her position as a princess of
Spain, now Queen of France.

"Monsieur, you forget yourself. The Queen of France does not listen to such words. You are
mad, I think."

"Yes, I am mad," he flung back. "Mad with love--so mad that I have forgot that you are a queen
and I an ambassador. Under the ambassador there is a man, under the queen a woman--our real
selves, not the titles with which Fate seeks to dissemble our true natures. And with the whole
strength of my true nature do I love you, so potently, so overwhelmingly that I will not believe
you sensible of no response."

Thus torrentially he delivered himself, and swept her a little off her feet. She was a woman,
as he said; a queen, it is true; but also a neglected, coldly-used wife; and no one had ever
addressed her in anything approaching this manner, no one had ever so much as suggested that
her existence could matter greatly, that in her woman's nature there was the magic power of
awakening passion and devotion. He was so splendidly magnificent, so masterful and unrivalled,
and he came thus to lay his being, as it were, in homage at her feet. It touched her a little,
who knew so little of the real man. It cost her an effort to repulse him, and the effort was
not very convincing.

"Hush, monsieur, for pity's sake! You must not talk so to me. It ... it hurts."

O fatal word! She meant that it was her dignity as Queen he wounded, for she clung to that
as to the anchor of salvation. But he in his egregious vanity must of cours e misunderstand.

"Hurts!" he cried, and the rapture in his accents should have warned her. "Because you resist
it, because you fight against the commands of your true self. Anne!" He seized her, and crushed
her to him. "Anne!"

Wild terror gripped her at that almost brutal contact, and anger, too, her dignity surging
up in violent outraged rebellion. A scream, loud and piercing, broke from her and rang through
the still garden. It brought him to his senses. It was as if he had been lifted up into the
air, and then suddenly allowed to fall.

He sprang away from her, an incoherent exclamation on his lips, and when an instant later Monsieur
de Putange came running up in alarm, his hand upon his sword, those two stood with the width
of the avenue between them, Buckingham erect and defiant, the Queen breathing hard and trembling,
a hand upon her heaving breast as if to repress its tumult.

"Madame! Madame!" had been Putange's cry, as he sprang forward in alarm and self-reproach.

He stood now almost between them, looking from one to the other in bewilderment. Neither spoke.

"You cried out, Madame," M. de Putange reminded her, and Buckingham may well have wondered
whether presently he would be receiving M. de Putange's sword in his vitals. He must have known
that his life now hung upon her answer.

"I called you, that was all," said the Queen, in a voice that she strove to render calm. "I
confess that I was startled to find myself alone with M. L'Ambassadeur. Do not let it occur
again, M. de Putange!"

The equerry bowed in silence. His itching fingers fell away from his sword-hilt, and he breathed
more freely. He had no illusions as to what must have happened. But he was relieved there were
to be no complications. The others now coming up with them, the party thereafter kept together
until presently Buckingham and Lord Holland took their leave.

On the morrow the last stage of the escorting journey was accomplished. A little way beyond
Amiens the Court took its leave of Henrietta Maria, entrusting her now to Buckingham and his
followers, who were to convey her safely to Charles.

It was a very contrite and downcast Buckingham who came now to Anne of Austria as she sat in
her coach with the Princesse de Conti for only companion.

"Madame," he said, "I am come to take my leave."

"Fare you well, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur," she said, and her voice was warm and gentle, as if
to show him that she bore no malice.

"I am come to ask your pardon, madame," he said, in a low voice.

"Oh, monsieur--no more, I beg you." She looked down; her hands were trembling, her cheeks going
red and white by turns.

He put his head behind the curtains of the coach, so that none might see him from outside,
and looking at him now, she beheld tears in his eyes.

"Do not misunderstand me, madame. I ask your pardon only for having discomposed you, startled
you. As for what I said, it were idle to ask pardon, since I could no more help saying it than
I can help drawing breath. I obeyed an instinct stronger than the will to live. I gave expression
to something that dominates my whole being, and will ever dominate it as long as I have life.
Adieu, madame! At need you know where a servant who will gladly die for you is to be found."
He kissed the hem of her robe, dashed the back of his hand across his eyes, and was gone before
she could say a word in answer.

She sat pale, and very thoughtful, and the Princesse de Conti, watching her furtively, observed
that her eyes were moist.

"I will answer for the Queen's virtue," she stated afterwards, "but I cannot speak so positively
for the hardness of her heart, since without doubt the Duke's tears affected her spirits."

But it was not yet the end. As Buckingham was nearing Calais, he was met by a courier from
Whitehall, with instructions for him regarding the negotiations he had been empowered to carry
out with France in the matter of an alliance against Spain--negotiations which had not thriven
with Louis and Richelieu, possibly because the ambassador was ill-chosen. The instructions
came too late to be of use, but in time to serve as a pretext for Buckingham's return to Amiens.
There he sought an audience of the Queen-Mother, and delivered himself to her of a futile message
for the King. This chimerical business--as Madame de Motteville shrewdly calls it--being accomplished,
he came to the real matter which had prompted him to use that pretext for his return, and sought
audience of Anne of Austria.

It was early morning, and the Queen was not yet risen. But the levées at the Court of France
were precisely what the word implies, and they were held by royalty whilst still abed. It was
not, therefore, amazing that he should have been admitted to her presence. She was alone save
for her lady-in-waiting, Madame de Lannoi, who was, we are told, aged, prudent and virtuous.
Conceive, therefore, the outraged feelings of this lady upon seeing the English duke precipitate
himself wildly into the room, and on his knees at the royal bedside seize the coverlet and
bear it to his lips.

Whilst the young Queen looked confused and agitated, Madame de Lannoi became a pillar of icy
dignity.

"M. le Duc," says she, "it is not customary in France to kneel when speaking to the Queen."

"I care nothing for the customs of France, madame," he answered rudely. "I am not a Frenchman."

"That is too obvious, monsieur," snapped the elderly, prudent and virtuous countess. "Nevertheless,
whilst in France perhaps monsieur will perceive the convenience of conforming to French customs.
Let me call for a chair for Monsieur le Duc."

"I do not want a chair, madame."

The countess cast her eyes to Heaven, as if to say, "I suppose one cannot expect anything else
in a foreigner," and let him kneel as he insisted, placing herself, however, protectingly at
the Queen's pillow.

Nevertheless, entirely unabashed, heeding Madame de Lannoi's presence no more than if she had
been part of the room's furniture, the Duke delivered himself freely of what was in his mind.
He had been obliged to return to Amiens on a matter of State. It was unthinkable that he should
be so near to her Majesty and not hasten to cast himself at her feet; and whilst gladdening
the eyes of his body with the sight of her matchless perfection, the image of which was ever
before the eyes of his soul, allow himself the only felicity life now held for him--that of
protesting himself her utter slave. This, and much more of the kind, did he pour out, what
time the Queen, embarrassed and annoyed beyond utterance, could only stare at him in silence.

Apart from the matchless impudence of it, it was also of a rashness beyond pardon. Unless Madame
de Lannoi were the most circumspect of women, here was a fine tale for Court gossips, and for
the King's ears, a tale that must hopelessly compromise the Queen. For that, Buckingham, in
his self-sufficiency and arrogance, appears to have cared nothing. One suspects that it would
have pleased his vanity to have his name linked with the Queen's by the lips of scandal.

She found her tongue at last.

"Monsieur le Duc," she said in her confusion, "it was not necessary, it was not worth while,
to have asked audience of me for this. You have leave to go."

He looked up in doubt, and saw only confusion; attributed it perhaps to the presence of that
third party to which himself he had been so indifferent. He kissed the coverlet again, stumbled
to his feet, and reached the door. Thence he sent her a flaming glance of his bold eyes, and
hand on heart--

"Adieu, madame!" said he in tragic tones, and so departed.

Madame de Lannoi was discreet, and related at the time nothing of what had passed at that interview.
But that the interview itself had taken place under such conditions was enough to set the tongue
of gossip wagging. An echo of it reached the King, together with the story of that other business
in the garden, and he was glad to know that the Duke of Buckingham was back in London. Richelieu,
to vent his own malice against the Queen, sought to feed the King's suspicions.

"Why did she cry out, sire?" he will have asked. "What did M. de Buckingham do to make her
cry out?"

"I don't know. But whatever it was, she was no party to it since she did cry out."

Richelieu did not pursue the matter just then. But neither did he abandon it. He had his agents
in London and elsewhere, and he desired of them a close report upon the Duke of Buckingham's
movements, and the fullest particulars of his private life.

Meanwhile, Buckingham had left behind him in France two faithful agents of his own, with instructions
to keep his memory green with the Queen. For he intended to return upon one pretext or another
before very long, and complete the conquest. Those agents of his were Lord Holland and the
artist Balthazar Gerbier. It is to be presumed that they served the Duke's interests well,
and it is no less to be presumed from that which followed that they found her Majesty willing
enough to hear news of that amazingly romantic fellow who had flashed across the path of her
grey life, touching it for a moment with his own flaming radiance. In her loneliness she came
to think of him with tenderness and pity, in which pity for herself and her dull lot was also
blent. He was away, overseas; she might never see him again; therefore there could be little
harm in indulging the romantic tenderness he had inspired.

So one day, many months after his departure, she begged Gerbier--as La Rochefoucauld tells
us--to journey to London and bear the Duke a trifling memento of her--a set of diamond studs.
That love-token--for it amounted to no less--Gerbier conveyed to England, and delivered to
the Duke.

Buckingham's head was so completely turned by the event, and his desire to see Anne of Austria
again became thereupon so overmastering, that he at once communicated to France that he was
coming over as the ambassador of the King of England to treat of certain masters connected
with Spain. But Richelieu had heard from the French ambassador in London that portraits of
the Queen of France were excessively abundant at York House, the Duke's residence, and he had
considered it his duty to inform the King. Louis was angry, but not with the Queen. To have
believed her guilty of any indiscretion would have hurt his gloomy pride too deeply. All that
he believed was that this was merely an expression of Buckingham's fanfaronading, thrasonical
disposition, a form of vain, empty boasting peculiar to megalomaniacs.

As a consequence, the King of England was informed that the Duke of Buckingham, for reasons
well known to himself, would not be agreeable as Charles's ambassador to his Most Christian
Majesty. Upon learning this, the vainglorious Buckingham was loud in proclaiming the reason
("well known to himself") and in protesting that he would go to France to see the Queen with
the French King's consent or without it. This was duly reported to Richelieu, and by Richelieu
to King Louis. But his Most Christian Majesty merely sneered, accounted it more empty boasting
on the part of the parvenu, and dismissed it from his mind.

Richelieu found this attitude singularly exasperating in a King who was temperamentally suspicious.
It so piqued and annoyed him, that when considered in addition to his undying rancour against
Anne of Austria, it is easily believed he spared no pains to obtain something in the nature
of a proof that the Queen was not as innocent as Louis insisted upon believing.

Now it happened that one of his London agents informed him, among other matters connected with
the Duke's private life, that he had a bitter and secret enemy in the Countess of Carlisle,
between whom and himself there had been a passage of some tenderness too abruptly ended by
the Duke. Richelieu, acting upon this information, contrived to enter into correspondence with
Lady Carlisle, and in the course of this correspondence he managed her so craftily--says La
Rochefoucauld--that very soon she was, whilst hardly realizing it, his Eminence's most valuable
spy near Buckingham. Richelieu informed her that he was mainly concerned with information that
would throw light upon the real relations of Buckingharn and the Queen of France, and he persuaded
her that nothing was too insignificant to be communicated. Her resentment of the treatment
she had received from Buckingham, a resentment the more bitter for being stifled--since for
her reputation's sake she dared not have given it expression--made her a very ready instrument
in Richelieu's hands, and there was no scrap of gossip she did not carefully gather up and
dispatch to him. But all was naught until one day at last she was able to tell him something
that set his pulses beating more quickly than their habit.

She had it upon the best authority that a set of diamond studs constantly worn of late by the
Duke was a love-token from the Queen of France sent over to Buckingham by a messenger of her
own. Here, indeed, was news. Here was a weapon by which the Queen might be destroyed. Richelieu
considered. If he could but obtain possession of the studs, the rest would be easy. There would
be an end--and such an end!--to the King's obstinate, indolent faith in his wife's indifference
to that boastful, flamboyant English upstart. Richelieu held his peace for the time being,
and wrote to the Countess.

Some little time thereafter there was a sumptuous ball given at York House, graced by the presence
of King Charles and his young French Queen. Lady Carlisle was present, and in the course of
the evening Buckingham danced with her. She was a very beautiful, accomplished and ready-witted
woman, and to-night his Grace found her charms so alluring that he was almost disposed to blame
himself for having perhaps treated her too lightly. Yet she seemed at pains to show him that
it was his to take up again the affair at the point at which it had been dropped. She was gay,
arch, provoking and irresistible. So irresistible that presently, yielding to the lure of her,
the Duke slipped away from his guests with the lady on his arm, and they found themselves at
the foot of the garden in the shadow of the water-gate that Inigo Jones had just completed
for him. My lady languished at his side, permitted him to encircle her with a protecting arm,
and for a moment lay heavily against him. He caught her violently to him, and now her ladyship,
hitherto so yielding, with true feminine contrariness set herself to resist him. A scuffle
ensued between them. She broke from him at last, and sped swift as a doe across the lawn towards
the lights of the great house, his Grace in pursuit between vexation and amusement.

But he did not overtake her, and it was with a sense of having been fooled that he rejoined
his guests. His questing eyes could discern her nowhere. Presently he made inquiries, to be
told that she had desired her carriage to be called, and had left York House immediately upon
coming in from the garden.

He concluded that she was gone off in a pet. It was very odd. It was, in fact, most flagrantly
contradictory that she should have taken offense at that which she had so obviously invited.
But then she always had been a perverse and provoking jade. With that reflection he put her
from his mind.

But anon, when his guests had departed, and the lights in the great house were extinguished,
Buckingham thought of the incident again. Cogitating it, he sat in his room, his fingers combing
his fine, pointed, auburn beard. At last, with a shrug and a half-laugh, he rose to undress
for bed. And then a cry escaped him, and brought in his valet from an adjoining room. The riband
of diamond studs was gone.

Reckless and indifferent as he was, a sense of evil took him in the moment of his discovery
of that loss, so that he stood there pale, staring, and moist of brow. It was no ordinary theft.
There were upon his person a dozen ornaments of greater value, any one of which could have
been more easily detached. This was the work of some French agent. He had made no secret of
whence those studs had come to him.

There his thoughts checked on a sudden. As in a flash of revelation, he saw the meaning of
Lady Carlisle's oddly contradictory behaviour. The jade had fooled him. It was she who had
stolen the riband. He sat down again, his head in his hands, and swiftly, link by link, he
pieced together a complete chain.

