Does this little girl--she might be styled a beauty by a true catholic taste, but oh! I fear
that the Boston Convention "ORTHODOX," lately convened to settle all great questions concerning
the past, present, and future, would never recognize her, on any showing, as a babe of grace!--does
she, as she runs down the hill and along the crooked street of Dalton, look anything like a
messenger of Heaven to your eyes? Must, the angels show their wings before they shall have
recognition?

Going past the blacksmith's shop she was hailed by the blacksmith's self, with the blacksmith's
own authority. "See here, Jenny!" At the call, she stood at bay like a fair little fawn in
the woods.

"I'm writing a letter to my boy," he continued. "Step in here. Did you know Ezra Cramer had
come back?"

"I saw him just now," she answered. "He told us about father." She said it with a pride that
made her young face shine.

"So! what about him, I wonder?" asked the blacksmith.

And that he really did wonder, Jenny could not doubt. She heard more in his words than she
liked to hear, and answered with a tremulous voice, in spite of pride, "O, he's been promoted."

"The deuse! what's he permoted to?"

"I don't know," she said, and for the first time she wondered.

"Where is he, though?" asked the blacksmith.

"I don't know,--in the war."

"That's 'cute. Well, see here, sis, we'll find that out,--you and me will." The angry voice
of the blacksmith became tender. "You sit down there and write him a letter. My son, he'll
find out if your pa is alive. As for Ezra, he don't know any more 'n he did when he went away;
but, poor fellow, he's been mostually in the hospertal, instead of fighting Ribils, so p'r'aps
he ain't to blame. You write to yer pa, and I'll wage you get an answer back, and he'll tell
you all about his permotion quick enough."

Jenny stood looking at the blacksmith for a moment, with mouth and eyes wide open, so much
astonished by the proposition as not to know what answer should be made to it. She had never
written a line in her life, except in her old copy-book. If her hand could be made to express
what she was thinking of, it would be the greatest work and wonder in the world. But then,
it never could!

That decisive never seemed to settle the point. She turned forthwith to the blacksmith, smiling
very seriously. At the same time she took three decided steps, which led her into his dingy
shop, as awed as though she were about to have some wonderful exhibition there. But she must
be her own astrologer.

The blacksmith, elated by his own success that morning in the very difficult business of letter-writing,
was mightily pleased to have under direction this little disciple in the work of love, and
forthwith laid his strong hands on the bench and brought it out into the light, setting it
down with a force that said something for the earnestness of his purpose in regard to Miss Jenny.

When he wrote his own letter, he did it in retirement and solitude, having sought out the darkest
corner of his shop for the purpose. A mighty man in the shoeing of horses and the handling
of hammers, he shrank from exposing his incompetence in the management of a miserable pen,
even to the daylight and himself.

His big account-book placed against his forge, with a small sheet of paper spread thereon,
his pen in Jenny's hands, and the inkstand near by, there was nothing for him to do but to
go away and let her do her work.

"Give him a tall letter!" said he. "And you must be spry about it. He'll be glad to hear from
his little girl, I reckon. See, the stage 'll be along by four o'clock, and now it's----"--he
stepped to the door and looked out on the tall pine-tree across the road,--that was his sun-dial,--"it's
just two o'clock now, Jenny. Work away!" So saying, he went off as tired, after the exertion
he had made, as if he had shod all the Dalton horses since daybreak.

She had just two hours for doing the greatest piece of work she had done in her short life.
And consciously it was the greatest work. Every stroke of that pen, every straight line and
curve and capital, seemed to require as much deliberation as the building of a house; and how
her brain worked! Fly to and fro, O swallows, from your homes beneath the eaves of the blacksmith's
old stone shop in the shade of the far-spreading walnut,--stretch forth your importunate necks
and lift aloft your greedy voices, O young ones in the nests!--the little girl who has so often
stood to watch you is sitting in the shadow within there, blind and deaf to you, and unaware
of everything in the great world except the promotion of her father "in the war," and the letter
he will be sure to get, because the blacksmith is going to send it along with his letter to
his son.

She was doing her work well. Any one who had ever seen the girl before must have asked with
wonder what had happened to her,--it was so evident that something had happened which stirred
heart and soul to the depths.

So, even so, unconsciously, love sometimes works out the work of a lifetime, touches the key-note
of an anthem of everlasting praise,--does it with as little ostentation as the son of science
draws yellow gold from the quartz rock which tells no tale on the face of it concerning its
"hid treasure." So, wisely and without ostentation, work the true agents, the apostles of liberty
in this world.

"O dear papa! my dear papa!" she wrote, "Ezra has come home, and he says you are promoted!
But he couldn't tell for what it was, or where you were, or anything. And O, it seems as if
I couldn't wait a minute, I want to hear so all about it." When she had written thus far the
spirit of the mother seemed to stir in the child. She sat and mused for a moment. Her eyes
flashed. Her right hand moved nervously. Strange that her father had not sent some word by
Ezra; but then he didn't know, of course, that Ezra was coming. Ay! that was a lucky thought.
What she had written seemed to imply some blame. So, with many a blot and erasure, her loving
belief that all was right must make itself evident.

At the end of the two hours she found herself at the bottom of the page the blacksmith had
spread before her. Twice he had come into the shop and assured himself that the work was going
on, and smiled to see the progress she was making. The third time he came he was under considerable
excitement.

"Ready!" he shouted. "The stage 'll be along now in ten minutes."

She did not answer, she was so busy, and so hard at work, signing her name to the sheet that
was covered with what looked like hieroglyphics.

When she had made the last emphatic pen-stroke, she turned towards him, flushed and smiling.
"There!" she said.

He looked over her shoulder.

"Good!" said he. "But you haven't writ his name out. Give me the pen here, quick!" Then he
took the quill and wrote her father's name up in one blank corner, and dried the ink with a
little sand, and put the note into the envelope containing his own, and the great work was done.

Do you know how great a work, you dingy old Dalton blacksmith?

Do you know, fair child,--who must fight till the day of your death with alien, opposite forces,
because the blood-vessels of Nancy Elkins, as they sail through the grand canals of the city
of your life, so often hang out piratical banners, and bear down on better craft as they near
the dangerous places, or put out, like wreckers after a storm, seeking for treasure the owners
somehow lost the power to hold?

In a few minutes after the letter was inscribed and sealed, the stage came rattling along,
and Jenny stood by and saw the blacksmith give it to the driver, and heard him say: "Now be
kerful about that ere letter. It's got two inside. One's my boy's, as ye'll see by the facing
on it; t' other's this little girl's. She's been writin' to her pa. So be kerful."

They stood together watching the stage till it was out of sight, then the blacksmith nodded
at Jenny as if they had done a good day's work, and proceeded to light his pipe. That was not
her way of celebrating the event. She remembered now that she had promised a little girl, Miss
Ellen Holmes indeed, that she would some time show her where the red-caps and fairy-cups grew,
and there was yet time, before sunset, for a long walk in the woods.

The little town-bred lady happened to come along just then, while Jenny stood hesitating whether
to go home first and tell her mother of this great thing she had done. The question was therefore
settled; and now let them go seeking red-caps. Good luck attend the children! Jenny will be
sure to say something about promotions before they separate. She will say that something with
a genuine human pride; and the end of the hunt for red-caps may be, conspicuously, success
in finding them; but still more to the purpose, it will be the child's establishment on a better
basis--a securer basis of equality--than she has occupied before. She forgets about Dalton
and poverty. She thinks about camps and honor. She has something to claim of all the world.
She is the citizen of a great nation. She bears the name of one who is fighting for the Union,
who has fought, and fought so well that those in authority have beckoned him up higher. Why,
it is as though a crown were placed on her dear father's head.

II.

Going out of quiet and beautiful green Dalton, and into the hospital of Frere's Landing, 't
is a wonderful change we make.

The silence of one place is as remarkable as the silence of the other, perhaps. That of the
hospital does not resemble that of the hamlet, however. At times it grows oppressive and appalling,
being the silence of anguish or of death. A stranger reaching Dalton in the night might wonder
in the morning if there were in reality any passage out of it, for there the lake, on one of
whose western slopes is the "neighborhood," seems locked in completely by the hills, and an
ascent towards heaven is apparently the only way of egress. Yet there's another way; for I
am not writing this true story among celestial altitudes for you. I returned from Dalton by
a mundane road.

Out of Frere's Hospital, however, its silence and seclusion, many a stranger never found his
way except by the high mountains of transfiguration, in the chariots of fire, driven by the
horsemen of Heaven, covered with whose glory they departed.

Through the wards of this well-ordered hospital a lady passed one night, and, entering a small
apartment separated from the others, advanced with noiseless step to a bedside, and there sat
down. You may guess if her heart was beating fast, and whether it was with difficulty that
she kept her gray eyes clear of tears. There were about her traces of long and hurried journeying.

Under no limitations of caution had she passed so noiselessly through the wards. Involuntary
was that noiselessness,--involuntary also the surprise with which one and another of the more
wakeful patients turned to follow her, with hopeless, weary eyes, as she passed on. Now and
then some feeble effort was made to attract her attention and arrest her progress, but she
went, absorbed beyond observation by the errand that constrained her steps and thoughts.

When she reached the door of the apartment to which the surgeon had directed her, she seemed
for an instant to hesitate; then she pushed the door open and passed into the room. The next
instant she sank into a chair by the bedside of a man who was lying there asleep. It seemed
as if the silent room had a profounder stillness added to it since she entered.

It was Colonel Ames whom she saw lying on the cot before her with a bandage round his forehead,
so evidently asleep. He was smiling in a dream. He was not going to give up the ghost, it seemed,
though he had given up so much--how much!--with that passion of giving which possessed this
nation, North and South, during four awful, glorious years. He had given up the splendor and
the beauty of this world. All its radiance was blotted out in that moment of fury and of death
when the shot struck him, and left him blind upon the field.

Never on earth would it be said to him, "Receive thy sight." The lady knew this who sat down
by his bedside to wait for his awaking. The surgeon had told her this, when at last, after
having searched for her brother long among the dead, she came to Frere's Hospital and found
him alive.

She sat so close beside him it seemed that he could not remain a moment unconscious of her
immediate presence after waking. Her hand lay just where his hand, moving when he wakened,
must touch it. She had rightly calculated the chances; he did touch it, and started and said:
"Who's here? Doctor!" Then with a firmer grasp he seized the unresisting fingers, and exclaimed,
"My God, am I dreaming? it ought to be Lizzie's hand."

"The doctor told me I should find you here, and might come," she answered; and, disguised as
the voice was by the feeling that tore her heart, the Colonel, poor young fellow, listening
as if for life, knew it, and said, "O Lizzie, my child, I don't know about this,--why couldn't
you wait?"

"I waited and waited forever," she answered. "You're not sorry that I've found you out after
such a hunt? Of course you'll make believe, but then--you needn't; I'm here, any way!"

Just then the surgeon came in. The Colonel knew his step, and said, "Doctor, look here; is
this Lizzie?"

"I believe you're right," said the doctor. "She said she had a hero for a brother, and I have
no doubt about that myself."

"O Dan, we had given you up! Though I knew all the time we shouldn't. I could not believe--"

"Must come to that Lizzie,--do it over again; for what you have here isn't your old Dan."

"My old Dan!" she exclaimed, and then there was a little break in the conversation the two
heroes were endeavoring to maintain.

Meanwhile the surgeon had seated himself on the edge of the bed waiting the moment when there
should be a positive need of him. He saw when it arrived.

"Colonel," said he, in his hearty, cheery voice, which alone had lifted many a poor fellow
from the slough of misery, and put new heart and soul in him, since his ministrations began
in the hospital,--"Colonel, your aids are in waiting."

The soldier smiled; his face flushed. "My aids can wait," said he.

"That is a fine thing to say. Here he has been bothering me, madam, not to say browbeating
me, and I've been moving heaven and earth for my part, and at last have secured the aids, and
now hear him dismiss them!"

"Bring them round here," said the patient suddenly.

The surgeon quietly lifted from the floor a pair of crutches, and placed them in his patient's
hands.

"How many years must I rely on my aids?" he asked quietly.

"Perhaps three months. By that time you will be as good as ever."

A change passed over the young man's face at this. Whatever the emotion so expressed, it had
otherwise no demonstration. He turned now abruptly toward his sister, and said: "They can wait.
I've got another kind of aid now. Come, Lizzie, say something."

A sudden radiance flashed across his face when he ceased to speak, and waited for that voice.

"I shall be round again in an hour," said the surgeon.

He could well be spared. The brother and sister had now neither eye nor thought except for
each other.

