 The humble structure
in question, which, at the time when it first attracted Sir James Simpson's notice, was used
as a pig-stye, had few external features to suggest the necessity of farther inquiry; but after
his eye had become accustomed to the architecture of the early monastic cells in Ireland, its
real character flashed upon him, and he found that his conclusions coincided with the facts
of the early history of the island.

These he gleaned from many sources, but in grouping them into a picture he enriched his narrative
with various instructive notes; as on the "Mos Scotticum" of our early buildings; a comparison
of the ruin with the Irish oratories; notices of other Island Retreats of Saints, and of the
Saints themselves. In one of these he gives an instructive reference to a passage in the original
Latin text of Boece about the round tower of Brechin, which had been overlooked by his translator
Bellenden, and so was now quoted for the first time.

A copy of this paper on Inchcolm having been sent to his friend Dr. Petrie of Dublin, author
of the well-known essay on the "Early Ecclesiastical Architecture and Round Towers of Ireland,"
it was returned after a time, enriched with many notes and illustrations. In now reprinting
the paper these have been added, and are distinguished from the author's notes by having the
letter P annexed to them. The subject of the Inchcolm oratory was one about which this great
man felt much interest, and on which he could speak from the abundance of his knowledge and
experience. The notes are therefore of special value, as furnishing the latest views of the
author on mooted points of Celtic Ecclesiology, while they are conspicuous for the modesty
and candour which were combined with Dr. Petrie's vast learning on the subject.

Thus, in his work on the Round Towers, Dr. Petrie assigned "about the year 1020" as the date
of the round tower of Brechin, but in one of the notes he corrects himself, and explains the
origin of his mistake:--"The recollection of the error which I made, by a carelessness not
in such matters usual with me, in assigning this date 1020, instead of between the years 971
and 994, as I ought to have done, has long given me annoyance, and a lesson never to trust
to memory in dates; for it was thus I fell into the mistake. I had the year 1020 on my mind,
which is the year assigned by Pinkerton for the writing of the Chron. Pictorum, and, without
stopping to remember or to refer, I took it for granted that it was the year of Kenneth's death,
or rather of his gift."

In writing of the Early Churches or Oratories of Ireland, Dr. Petrie stated in his Essay--"they
had a single doorway always placed in the centre of the west wall." In one of his notes, now
printed, he thus qualifies the statement:--"I should perhaps have written almost always. The
very few exceptions did not at the moment occur to me." Again, Sir James Simpson having quoted
a passage from Dr. Petrie's work, in which the writer ascribes the old small stone-roofed church
at Killaloe to the seventh century, Dr. Petrie, in his relative note, adds--"but now considers
as of the tenth, or perhaps eleventh."

To the paper on "Leprosy and Leper Hospitals in Scotland and England" is now added a series
of additional "Historical Notices," prepared by Dr. Joseph Robertson, with the accuracy and
research for which, as is well known, my early friend was conspicuous.

The origin of the tract on "Medical Officers in the Roman Army" is explained in the following
note, prefixed to the first edition:--"A few years ago my late colleague, Sir George Ballingall,
asked me--'Was the Roman Army provided with Medical Officers?' He was interested in the subject
as Professor of Military Surgery, and told me that he had made, quite unsuccessfully, inquiries
on the matter in various quarters, and at various persons. I drew up for him a few remarks,
which were privately printed and circulated among his class at the time. The present essay
consists of an extension of these remarks."

The essay on the monument called "THE CATSTANE" suggested an explanation, which naturally elicited
divergent criticisms. Some of these appear to have occasionally engaged Sir James Simpson's
attention; and from some unfinished notes among his papers, it seems plain that he meant to
notice them in an additional communication to the Society of Antiquaries.

In these notes, after recapitulating at the outset the facts adduced in his first paper, Sir
James proceeds:--"These points of evidence, I ventured to conclude, 'tend at least to render
it probable' that the Catstane is a monument to Vetta, the grandfather of Hengist and Horsa.
But I did not consider the question as a settled question. I began and ended my paper by discussing
this early Saxon origin of the monument as problematical and probable, but not fixed. At the
same time, I may perhaps take the liberty of remarking, that both in archæology and history
we look upon some questions as sufficiently fixed and settled, regarding which we have less
inferential and direct proof than we have respecting this solution of the enigma respecting
the Catstane. The idea, however, that it was possible for a monument to a historic Saxon leader
to be found in Scotland of a date antecedent to the advent of Hengist and Horsa to the shores
of Kent, was a notion so repugnant to many minds, that, very naturally, various arguments have
been adduced against it, while some high authorities have declared in favour of it. In this
communication I propose to notice briefly some of the leading arguments that have been latterly
brought forward both against and for the belief that the Catstane commemorates the ancestor
of the Saxon conquerors of Kent.

"1. One anonymous writer has maintained, that if the Catstane was a monument to the grandfather
of Hengist and Horsa, the inscription upon it should not have read 'In hoc tumulo jacet Vetta
f(ilius) Victi,' but, on the contrary, 'Victus filius Vettæ.' In other words, he holds that
the inscription reverses the order of paternity as given by Bede, Nennius, etc.[1] But all
this is simply and altogether a mistake on the part of the writer. All the ancient genealogies
describe Hengist and Horsa as the sons of Victgils, Victgils as the son of Vetta, and Vetta
as the son of Victus. The Catstane inscriptions give Vetta and Victus in exactly the same order.
When I pointed out to the writer the mistake into which he had, perhaps inadvertently, fallen,
he turned round, and argued that in such names the vowels e and i were more trustworthy as
permanent elements than the consonants c and t.[2] He argued, in other words, that Vecta as
a proper name would not be found spelled with an i. If it were never so spelled with an i,
that circumstance was no argument in favour of the strange error of criticism into which the
writer had fallen; but the fact is, that in the famous chapter of Bede's history, in which
the names Hengist and Horsa, and their genealogies, first occur, there is an instance given,
showing that, contrary to the opinion of this writer, a proper name having, like Vetta, the
letter e as a component, may change it to i. For Bede, in telling us that the men of Kent and
of the Isle of Wight (Cantuarii et Victuarii) were sprung from the Jutes, spells the Isle of
Wight (Vecta) with an e, and the inhabitants of it (Victuarii) with an i.

"The same writer states it as his opinion that the lettering in the Catstane inscription is
not so old as I should wish to make it. 'It is,' says he, 'in our opinion, of later date even
than Hengist himself, both in the formula of the inscription and in the character of the writing.'
Perhaps the writer's opinion upon such a point is not worth alluding to, as it is maintained
by no proof. But Edward Lhuyd--one of the very best judges in such questions in former days--stated
the lettering to be of the fourth or fifth century, without having any hypothesis to support
or subvert by this opinion. And the best palæographer of our own times--Professor Westwood--is
quite of the same idea as to the mere age of the inscription, as drawn from its palæography
and formula, an idea in which he is joined by an antiquary who has worked much with ancient
lettering--viz. Professor Stephens of Copenhagen."

Although it is to be regretted that the contemplated remarks were not completed, it may be
doubted if the question admitted of much further illustration; and, however unlikely the conclusion
may be that the inscription on the Catstane, VETTA F[ILIUS] VICTI, is a contemporary commemoration
of the grandfather of Hengist and Horsa, it may not be easy to suggest a solution of the question
free from difficulties as puzzling. At all events the palæographic features of the inscription
seem plainly to associate it with a class of rude post-Roman monuments, of which we have a
good many examples in different parts of the kingdom; and it may be remarked that Mr. Skene,
who has made this period of our history a special study, after investigating, with his usual
acumen, the evidence which exists to show that the Frisians had formed settlements in Scotland
at a period anterior to that usually assigned for the arrival of the Saxons in England, has
established the fact of the early settlement on our northern coasts of a people called by the
general name of Saxons, but in reality an offshoot from the Frisians, whose principal seat
was on the shores of the Firth of Forth, and on the whole thinks it not impossible that the
Catstane may be the tomb of their first leader Vitta, son of Vecta, the traditionary grandfather
of Hengist and Horsa.[3]

Besides the papers now printed, Sir James Simpson contributed many shorter essays and reviews
of books to magazines and newspapers. He also prepared a memorandum, printed in the second
volume of the "Sculptured Stones of Scotland," of a reading of the inscription on a sculptured
cross at St. Vigeans in Forfarshire.[4] At the time of the final adjustment of this paper Sir
James was an invalid, and confined to his bed, and I well remember the extreme, almost fastidious,
care bestowed by him on the proof-sheet, in the course of my frequent visits to his bedroom.

It sometimes happened also that a subject originally treated in a paper by Sir James Simpson
required a volume to exhaust it. Thus, in the spring of 1864, he read to a meeting of the Society
of Antiquaries of Scotland a "Notice of the Sculpturing of Cups and Concentric Rings on Stones
and Rocks in various parts of Scotland;" but materials afterwards so grew on his hands that
his original Notice came to be expanded into a volume of nearly 200 pages, with 36 illustrative
plates. His treatment of this curious subject furnishes a model for such investigations.[5]

Setting out with a description of the principal types of the sculptures, he investigates the
chief deviations which occur. He next classifies the various monuments on which the sculptures
have been observed, as standing-stones, cromlechs, stones in chambered tumuli, and stones in
sepulchral cists. Another chapter describes their occurrence on stones connected with archaic
habitations, as weems, fortified buildings, in and near ancient towns and camps, and on isolated
rocks and stones. After a description of analogous sculptures in other countries, there is
a concluding chapter of general inferences founded on the facts accumulated in the previous
part of the volume.

On the occasion of a rapid journey to Liverpool, Sir James Simpson visited a stone circle at
Calder, near that city, and detected the true character of the sculptures on the stones, a
very imperfect note of which I had recently brought under his notice. An account of this monument,
which he prepared for the Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire, is printed in the Transactions
of that body for 1865, and the following passages are quoted from it:--"Many suggestions, I
may observe, have been offered in regard to the intent and import of such lapidary cup and
ring cuttings as exist on the Calder Stones; but none of the theories proposed solve, as it
seems to me, the hieroglyphic mystery in which these sculpturings are still involved. They
are old enigmatical 'handwritings on the wall,' which no modern reader has yet deciphered.
In our present state of knowledge with regard to them, let us be content with merely collecting
and recording the facts in regard to their appearances, relations, localities, etc.; for all
early theorising will, in all probability, end only in error. It is surely better frankly to
own that we know not what these markings mean (and possibly may never know it), rather than
wander off into that vague mystification and conjecture which in former days often brought
discredit on the whole study of archæology.

"But in regard to their probable era let me add one suggestion. These cup and ring cuttings
have now been traced along the whole length of the British Isles, from Dorsetshire to Orkney,
and across their whole breadth from Yorkshire in England to Kerry in Ireland; and in many of
the inland counties in the three kingdoms. They are evidently dictated by some common thought
belonging to some common race of men. But how very long is it since a common race--or successive
waves even of a common race--inhabited such distant districts as I have just named, and spread
over Great Britain and Ireland, from the English Channel to the Pentland Firth, and from the
shores of the German Ocean to those of the Atlantic?"

The special value of the inductive treatment of the subject adopted by Sir James Simpson is
here conspicuous; and although no decided conclusion was come to on the age and meaning of
the sculptures, or the people by whom they were made, yet a reader feels that the utmost has
been made of existing materials; and that, while nothing has been left untouched which could
throw light on the question, a broad and sure foundation has been laid on which all subsequent
research must rest.

One of the Appendices to this volume contains an account of some ancient sculptures on the
walls of certain caves in Fife. The essay originally appeared as a communication to the Royal
Society of Edinburgh in January 1866, and was also soon afterwards printed separately--"Inscribed
to James Drummond, Esq., R.S.A., as a small token of the Author's very sincere friendship and
esteem."

The discovery of these cave sculptures affords an instance of the thoroughness which Sir James
carried into all his investigations. While engaged in the preparation of his original paper
for the Society of Antiquaries on the Sculpturing of Cups and Rings, he wished to ascertain
all the localities and conditions of their occurrence. After describing the sculptured circles
and cups which had been found on the stones of weems and "Picts' Houses," he referred to the
caves on the coast of Fife, which he suggested might be considered as natural weems or habitations.
These he had visited in the hope of discovering cup-markings; and in one near the village of
Easter Wemyss he discovered faded appearances of some depressions or cups, with small single
circles cut on the wall, adding to his description--"Probably a more minute and extensive search
in these caves would discover many more such carvings."

This was written in 1864; and when the paper then prepared had been expanded into the volume
of 1867, the passage just quoted was accompanied by the following note:--"I leave this sentence
as it was written above two years ago. Shortly after that period, I revisited Wemyss, to inspect
the other caves of the district, and make more minute observations than I could do in my first
hurried visit, and discovered on the walls of some of them many carvings of animals, 'spectacle
ornaments,' and other symbols exactly resembling in type and character the similar figures
represented on the ancient so-called sculptured stones of Scotland, and, like them, probably
about a thousand years old."[6]

In like manner, after Sir Gardner Wilkinson had detected a concentric circle of four rings
sculptured on the pillar called "Long Meg," at the great stone circle of Salkeld, in Cumberland,
Sir James Simpson paid a visit to the monument, when his scrutiny was rewarded by the discovery
on this pillar of several additional groups of sculptures.[7]

In his lecture on Archæology, Sir James Simpson has indicated two lines of research, from which
additional data and facts for the elucidation of past times might be expected--viz. researches
beneath the surface of the earth, and researches among older works and manuscripts. By the
former he meant the careful and systematised examinations in which the spade and pickaxe are
so important, and have done such service in late years, and from which Sir James expected much
more; and by the latter the exploring and turning to account the many stores of written records
of early times yet untouched.

Being impressed with the value of the charters of our old religious houses for historical purposes,
he, shortly before his death, had a transcript made of the Chartulary of the Monastery of Inchcolm,
with a design to edit it as one of a series of volumes of monastic records for the Society
of Antiquaries of Scotland.

But the services of Sir James Simpson to the cause of archæological research are not to be
measured by his written contributions, remarkable as these are. Perhaps it may be said that
his influence was most pregnant in kindling a love of research in others, by opening their
eyes to see how much yet lay undiscovered, and how much each person could do by judicious effort
in his own neighbourhood. With this view he on various occasions delivered lectures on special
subjects of antiquity, and among his papers I found very full notes of lectures on Roman antiquities,
one of which, on the "Romans in Britain," he delivered at Falkirk in the winter of 1862.

For many years the house of Sir James Simpson was the rendezvous of archæological students;
and it was one of his great pleasures to bring together at his table men from different districts
and countries, but united by the brotherhood of a common pursuit, for the discussion of facts
and the exchange of thought.

The friends who were accustomed to these easy reunions will not soon forget the radiant geniality
of the host, and his success in stimulating the discussions most likely to draw out the special
stores of his guests. Others also, who were associated with Sir James in the visits to historical
sites which he frequently planned, in the retrospect of the pleasant hours thus spent will
feel how vain it is to hope for another leader with the attractions which were combined in him.

In the course of his numerous professional journeys he acquired a wonderfully accurate knowledge
of the early remains of different districts; and so contagious was his enthusiasm for their
elucidation, that both the professional brethren with whom he acted, and his patients, were
speedily found among his correspondents and allies.

His presence at the meetings of Archæological Societies was ever regarded as a pleasure and
benefit. Besides the stated meetings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, which he attended
with comparative frequency, and where he ever took a share in the discussions, he was present
on various occasions at Congresses of the Archæological Institute, the Cambrian Association,
and other kindred bodies, by means of which he was enabled to maintain an intercourse with
contemporary fellow-labourers in the archæological field, and to attain that familiarity with
different classes of antiquities which he turned to such account in the discussion and classification
of the early remains of Scotland.

I must not speak of the wonderful combination of qualities which were conspicuous in Sir James
Simpson, alongside of those which I have mentioned. This may safely be left to the more competent
hand of Professor Duns, from whose memoir of his early friend so much may be expected, and
where a more general estimate of his character will naturally be found. Yet, in bringing together
this series of Sir James Simpson's Archæological Essays, it seemed not unsuitable for me to
express something of my admiration of the earnest truth-seeking spirit with which they were
undertaken, as well as of the genius and research with which they were executed.

JOHN STUART.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: "The monument reverses the order of paternity of the two individuals, making Wecta
the son of Witta, instead of Witta the son of Wecta, in which all the old genealogies agree."--Athenæum,
July 5, 1862, p. 17.]

[Footnote 2: "The vowel is far more distinctive of the two names than the difference of c and
t, letters which were continually interchanged."--Ibid. August 2, 1862, p. 149.]

[Footnote 3: Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, vol. iv. p. 181.]

[Footnote 4: The Sculptured Stones of Scotland, vol. ii. Notices of the Plates, p. 71.]

[Footnote 5: Archaic Sculpturings of Cups, Circles, etc., upon Stones and Rocks in Scotland,
England, and other Countries. Edin. 1867.]

[Footnote 6: British Archaic Sculpturings, p. 126.]

[Footnote 7: Idem, p. 20.]

CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

                                                                     PAGE

I. ARCHÆOLOGY: ITS PAST AND ITS FUTURE WORK                             1

An Inaugural Address to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. Session 1860-61. Proc. vol.
iv. p. 5.

II. ON AN OLD STONE-ROOFED CELL OR ORATORY IN THE ISLAND OF INCHCOLM                      
67

A Paper read to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, July 13, 1857. Proc. vol. ii. p. 489.
ON THE CAT-STANE, KIRKLISTON                                     137

Read to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, 11th February 1861. Proc. vol. iv. p. 119.

Printed separately in 1862, and "Inscribed with Feelings of the most Sincere Esteem to Mrs.
Pender, Crumpsall House, Manchester."

IV. ON SOME SCOTTISH MAGICAL CHARM-STONES, OR CURING-STONES           199

Read to the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, 8th April 1861. Proc. vol. iv. p. 211.

V. IS THE GREAT PYRAMID OF GIZEH A METROLOGICAL MONUMENT?                                 
219

Corrected Abstract of a Communication to the Royal Society of Edinburgh on 20th January 1868,
with Notes and an Appendix. Proc. of the Royal Society, No. 75.

ARCHÆOLOGY:

ITS PAST AND ITS FUTURE WORK.[8]

It has become a practice of late years in this Society for one of the Vice-Presidents to read
an Annual Address on some topic or topics connected with Archæology. I appear here to-night
more in compliance with this custom than with any hope of being able to state aught to you
that is likely to prove either of adequate interest or of adequate importance for such an occasion.

In making this admission, I am fully aware that the deficiency lies in myself, and not in my
subject. For truly there are few studies which offer so many tempting fields of observation
and comment as Archæology. Indeed, the aim and the groundwork of the studies of the antiquary
form a sufficient guarantee for the interest with which these studies are invested. For the
leading object and intent of all his pursuits is--MAN, and man's ways and works, his habits
and thoughts, from the earliest dates at which we can find his traces and tracks upon the earth,
onward and forwards along the journey of past time. During this long journey, man has everywhere
left scattered behind and around him innumerable relics, forming so many permanent impressions
and evidences of his march and progress. These impressions and evidences the antiquary searches
for and studies--in the changes which have in successive eras taken place (as proved by their
existing and discoverable remains) in the materials and forms of the implements and tools which
man has from the earliest times used in the chase and in agriculture; in the weapons which
he has employed in battle; in the habitations which he has dwelt in during peace, and in the
earth-works and stone-works which he has raised during war; in the dresses and ornaments which
he has worn; in the varying forms of religious faith which he has held, and the deities that
he has worshipped; in the sacred temples and fanes which he has reared; in the various modes
in which he has disposed of the dead; in the laws and governments under which he has lived;
in the arts which he has cultivated; in the sculptures which he has carved; in the coins and
medals which he has struck; in the inscriptions which he has cut; in the records which he has
written; and in the character and type of the languages in which he has spoken. All the markings
and relics of man, in the dim and distant past, which industry and science can possibly extract
from these and from other analogous sources, Archæology carefully collects, arranges, and generalises,
stimulated by the fond hope that through such means she will yet gradually recover more and
more of the earlier chronicles and lost annals of the human race, and of the various individual
communities and families of that race.

The objects of antiquarian research embrace events and periods, many of which are placed within
the era of written evidence; but many more are of a date long anterior to the epoch when man
made that greatest of human discoveries--the discovery, namely, of the power of permanently
recording words, thoughts, and acts, in symbolical and alphabetic writing. To some minds it
has seemed almost chimerical for the archæologist to expect to regain to any extent a knowledge
of the conditions and circumstances of man, and of the different nations of men, before human
cunning had learned to collect and inscribe them on stone or brass, or had fashioned them into
written or traditional records capable of being safely floated down the stream of time. But
the modern history of Archæology, as well as the analogies of other allied pursuits, are totally
against any such hopeless views.

Almost within the lifetime of some who are still amongst us, there has sprung up and been cultivated--and
cultivated most successfully too--a science which has no written documents or legible inscriptions
to guide it on its path, and whose researches are far more ancient in their object than the
researches of Archæology. Its subject is an antiquity greatly older than human antiquity. It
deals with the state of the earth and of the inhabitants of the earth in times immeasurably
beyond the earliest times studied by the antiquary. In the course of its investigations it
has recovered many strange stories and marvellous chronicles of the world and of its living
occupants--long, long ages before human antiquity even began. But if Geology has thus successfully
restored to us long and important chapters in the pre-Adamite annals of the world's history,
need Archæology despair of yet deciphering and reading--infinitely more clearly than it has
yet done--that far later episode in the drama of the past which opens with the appearance of
man as a denizen of earth. The modes of investigating these two allied and almost continuous
sciences--Geology and Archæology--are the same in principle, however much the two sciences
themselves may differ in detail. And if Geology, in its efforts to regain the records of the
past state of animal and vegetable life upon the surface of the earth, has attractions which
bind the votaries of it to its ardent study, surely Archæology has equal, if not stronger claims
to urge in its own behoof and favour. To the human mind the study of those relics by which
the archæologist tries to recover and reconstruct the history of the past races and nations
of man, should naturally form as engrossing a topic as the study of those relics by which the
geologist tries to regain the history of the past races and families of the fauna and flora
of the ancient world. Surely, as a mere matter of scientific pursuit, the ancient or fossil
states of man should--for man himself--have attractions as great, at least, as the ancient
or fossil states of plants and animals; and the old Celt, or Pict, or Saxon, be as interesting
a study as the old Lepidodendron or Ichthyosaurus.

Formerly, the pursuit of Archæology was not unfrequently regarded as a kind of romantic dilettanteism,
as a collecting together of meaningless antique relics and oddities, as a greedy hoarding and
storing up of rubbish and frivolities that were fit only for an old curiosity shop, and that
were valued merely because they were old;--while the essays and writings of the antiquary were
looked down upon as disquisitions upon very profitless conjectures, and very solemn trivialities.
Perhaps the objects and method in which antiquarian studies were formerly pursued afforded
only too much ground for such accusations. But all this is now, in a great measure, entirely
changed. Archæology, as tempered and directed by the philosophic spirit, and quickened with
the life and energy of the nineteenth century, is a very different pursuit from the Archæology
of our forefathers, and has as little relation to their antiquarianism as modern Chemistry
and modern Astronomy have to their former prototypes--Alchemy and Astrology. In proof of this,
I may confidently appeal to the good work which Archæology has done, and the great advances
which it has struck out in different directions within the last fifty years. Within this brief
period it has made discoveries, perhaps in themselves of as momentous and marvellous a character
as those of which any other modern science can boast. Let me cite two or three instances in
illustration of this remark.

Dating, then, from the commencement of the present century, Archæology has--amidst its other
work--rediscovered, through the interpretation of the Rosetta-stone, the long-lost hieroglyphic
language of Egypt, and has thus found a key by which it has begun--but only as yet begun--to
unlock the rich treasure-stores of ancient knowledge which have for ages lain concealed among
the monuments and records scattered along the valley of the Nile. It has copied, by the aid
of the telescope, the trilingual arrow-headed inscriptions written 300 feet high upon the face
of the rocks of Behistun; and though the alphabets and the languages in which these long inscriptions
were "graven with a pen of iron and lead upon the rocks for ever," had been long dead and unknown,
yet, by a kind of philological divination, Archæology has exorcised and resuscitated both;
and from these dumb stones, and from the analogous inscriptions of Van, Elwend, Persepolis,
etc., it has evoked official gazettes and royal contemporaneous annals of the deeds and dominions
of Darius, Xerxes, and other Persian kings. By a similar almost talismanic power and process,
it has forced the engraved cylinders, bricks, and obelisks of the old cities of Chaldea and
Babylonia--as those of Wurka, Niffer, Muqueyer, etc.--to repeat over again to this present
generation of men the names of the ancient founders of their public buildings, and the wars
and exploits of their ancient monarchs. It has searched among the shapeless mounds on the banks
of the Tigris, and after removing the shroud of earth and rubbish under which "Nineveh the
Great" had there lain entombed for ages, it has brought back once more to light the riches
of the architecture and sculptures of the palaces of that renowned city, and shown the advanced
knowledge of Assyria--some thirty long centuries ago--in mechanics and engineering, in working
and inlaying with metals, in the construction of the optical lens, in the manufactory of pottery
and glass, and in most other matters of material civilisation. It has lately, by these and
other discoveries in the East, confirmed in many interesting points, and confuted in none,
the truth of the Biblical records. It has found, for instance, every city in Palestine and
the neighbouring kingdoms whose special and precise doom was pronounced by the sure word of
Prophecy, showing the exact state foretold of them twenty or thirty centuries ago,--as Askelon
tenantless, the site of ancient Gaza "bald," old Tyre "scraped" up, and Samaria with its foundations
exposed, and its "stones poured down in heaps" into the valley below. It has further, within
the last few years, stolen into the deserts of the Hauran, through the old vigilant guard formed
around that region by the Bedouin Arabs, and there--(as if in startling contradiction to the
dead and buried cities of Syria, etc.)--it has--as was equally predicted--discovered the numerous
cyclopic cities of Bashan standing perfect and entire, yet "desolate and without any to dwell
therein,"--cities wrapped, as it were, in a state of mortal trance, and patiently awaiting
the prophesied period of their future revival and rehabitation; some of them of great size,
as Um-el-Jemâl (probably the Beth-gamul of Scripture), a city covering as large a space as
Jerusalem, with its high and massive basaltic town walls, its squares, its public buildings,
its paved streets, and its houses with their rooms, stairs, revolving and frequently sculptured
stone-doors, all nearly as complete and unbroken, as if its old inhabitants had only deserted
it yesterday. Again, from another and more distant part of the East,--from the plains of India,--Archæology
has recently brought to Europe, and at an English press printed for the first time, upwards
of 1000 of the sacred hymns of the Rig-Veda, the most ancient literary work of the Aryan or
Indo-European race of mankind; for, according to the calm judgment of our ripest Sanskrit scholars,
these hymns were composed before Homer sung of the wrath of Achilles; and they are further
remarkable, on this account, that they seem to have been transmitted down for upwards of 3000
years by oral tradition alone--the Brahmin priests up to the present day still spending--as
Cæsar tells us the old Druidical priests of Gaul spent--twelve, twenty, or more years of their
lives, in learning by heart these sacred lays and themes, and then teaching them in turn to
their pupils and successors.

The notices of antiquarian progress in modern times, that I have hitherto alluded to, refer
to other continents than our own. But since the commencement of the present century Archæology
has been equally active in Europe. It has, by its recent devoted study of the whole works of
art belonging to Greece, shown that in many respects a livelier and more familiar knowledge
of the ancient inhabitants of that classic land is to be derived from the contemplation of
their remaining statues, sculptures, gems, medals, coins, etc., than by any amount of mere
school-grinding at Greek words and Greek quantities. It has recovered at the same time some
interesting objects connected with ancient Grecian history; having, for example, during the
occupation of Constantinople in 1854 by the armies of England and France, laid bare to its
base and carefully copied the inscription, engraved some twenty-three centuries ago, upon the
brazen stand of the famous tripod which was dedicated by the confederate Greeks to Apollo at
Delphi, after the defeat of the Persian host at Platea,--an inscription that Herodotus himself
speaks of, and by which, indeed, the Father of History seems to have authenticated his own
battle-roll of the Greek combatants. Archæology has busied itself also, particularly of late
years, in disinterring the ruins of numerous old Roman villas, towns, and cities in Italy,
in France, in Britain, and in the other western colonies of Home; and by this measure it has
gained for us a clearer and nearer insight into every-day Roman life and habits, than all the
wealth of classic literature supplies us with. Though perfectly acquainted with the Etruscan
alphabet, it has hitherto utterly failed to read a single line of the numerous inscriptions
found in Etruria, but yet among the unwritten records and relics of the towns and tombs of
that ancient kingdom, it has recovered a wonderfully complete knowledge of the manners, and
habits, and faith, of a great and prosperous nation, which--located in the central districts
of Italy--was already far advanced in civilisation and refinement long before that epoch when
Romulus is fabled to have drawn around the Palatine the first boundary line of the infant city
which was destined to become the mistress of the world. Latterly, among all the western and
northern countries of Europe, in Germany, in Scandinavia, in Denmark, in France, and in the
British Islands, Archæology has made many careful and valuable collections of the numerous
and diversified implements, weapons, etc., of the aboriginal inhabitants of these parts, and
traced by them the stratifications, as it were, of progress and civilisation, by which our
primæval ancestors successively passed upwards through the varying eras and stages of advancement,
from their first struggles in the battle of life with tools of stone, and flint, and bone alone,
till they discovered and applied the use of metals in the arts alike of peace and war; from
those distant ages in which, dressed in the skins of animals, they wore ornaments made of sea-shells
and jet, till the times when they learned to plait and weave dresses of hair, wool, and other
fibres, and adorned their chiefs with torcs and armlets of bronze, silver, and gold. Archæology
also has sought out and studied the strongholds and forts, the land and lake habitations of
these, our primæval Celtic and Teutonic forefathers:--and has discovered among their ruins
many interesting specimens of the implements they used, the dresses that they wore, the houses
they inhabited, and the very food they fed upon. It has descended also into their sepulchres
and tombs, and there--among the mysterious contents of their graves and cinerary urns--it has
found revealed many other wondrous proofs of their habits and condition during this life, as
well as of their creeds and faith in regard to a future state of existence.

