"That is true, sir.  I haven't broken bread since dinner last night, and I am ravenously hungry."
Father rang the bell, and told the footman who answered it to send the housekeeper.  When she
came, father said to her:

"Mrs. Martindale, take this boy to your room and give him some breakfast."  Rupert stood very
still for some seconds.  His face had got red again after his paleness.  Then he bowed to my
father, and followed Mrs. Martindale, who had moved to the door.

Nearly an hour afterwards my father sent a servant to tell him to come to the study.  My mother
was there, too, and I had gone back with her.  The man came back and said:

"Mrs. Martindale, sir, wishes to know, with her respectful service, if she may have a word
with you."  Before father could reply mother told him to bring her.  The housekeeper could
not have been far off--that kind are generally near a keyhole--for she came at once.  When
she came in, she stood at the door curtseying and looking pale.  Father said:

"Well?"

"I thought, sir and ma'am, that I had better come and tell you about Master Sent Leger.  I
would have come at once, but I feared to disturb you."

"Well?"  Father had a stern way with servants.  When I'm head of the family I'll tread them
under my feet.  That's the way to get real devotion from servants!

"If you please, sir, I took the young gentleman into my room and ordered a nice breakfast for
him, for I could see he was half famished--a growing boy like him, and so tall!  Presently
it came along.  It was a good breakfast, too!  The very smell of it made even me hungry.  There
were eggs and frizzled ham, and grilled kidneys, and coffee, and buttered toast, and bloater-paste--"

"That will do as to the menu," said mother.  "Go on!"

"When it was all ready, and the maid had gone, I put a chair to the table and said, 'Now, sir,
your breakfast is ready!'  He stood up and said, 'Thank you, madam; you are very kind!' and
he bowed to me quite nicely, just as if I was a lady, ma'am!"

"Go on," said mother.

"Then, sir, he held out his hand and said, 'Good-bye, and thank you,' and he took up his cap.

"'But aren't you going to have any breakfast, sir?' I says.

"'No, thank you, madam,' he said; 'I couldn't eat here . . . in this house, I mean!'  Well,
ma'am, he looked so lonely that I felt my heart melting, and I ventured to ask him if there
was any mortal thing I could do for him.  'Do tell me, dear,' I ventured to say.  'I am an
old woman, and you, sir, are only a boy, though it's a fine man you will be--like your dear,
splendid father, which I remember so well, and gentle like your poor dear mother.'

"'You're a dear!' he says; and with that I took up his hand and kissed it, for I remember his
poor dear mother so well, that was dead only a year.  Well, with that he turned his head away,
and when I took him by the shoulders and turned him round--he is only a young boy, ma'am, for
all he is so big--I saw that the tears were rolling down his cheeks. With that I laid his head
on my breast--I've had children of my own, ma'am, as you know, though they're all gone.  He
came willing enough, and sobbed for a little bit.  Then he straightened himself up, and I stood
respectfully beside him.

"'Tell Mr. Melton,' he said, 'that I shall not trouble him about the trustee business.'

"'But won't you tell him yourself, sir, when you see him?' I says.

"'I shall not see him again,' he says; 'I am going back now!'

"Well, ma'am, I knew he'd had no breakfast, though he was hungry, and that he would walk as
he come, so I ventured to say: 'If you won't take it a liberty, sir, may I do anything to make
your going easier?  Have you sufficient money, sir?  If not, may I give, or lend, you some?
I shall be very proud if you will allow me to.'

"'Yes,' he says quite hearty.  'If you will, you might lend me a shilling, as I have no money.
I shall not forget it.'  He said, as he took the coin: 'I shall return the amount, though I
never can the kindness.  I shall keep the coin.'  He took the shilling, sir--he wouldn't take
any more--and then he said good-bye.  At the door he turned and walked back to me, and put
his arms round me like a real boy does, and gave me a hug, and says he:

"'Thank you a thousand times, Mrs. Martindale, for your goodness to me, for your sympathy,
and for the way you have spoken of my father and mother.  You have seen me cry, Mrs. Martindale,'
he said; 'I don't often cry: the last time was when I came back to the lonely house after my
poor dear was laid to rest.  But you nor any other shall ever see a tear of mine again.'  And
with that he straightened out his big back and held up his fine proud head, and walked out.
I saw him from the window striding down the avenue.  My! but he is a proud boy, sir--an honour
to your family, sir, say I respectfully.  And there, the proud child has gone away hungry,
and he won't, I know, ever use that shilling to buy food!"

Father was not going to have that, you know, so he said to her:

"He does not belong to my family, I would have you to know.  True, he is allied to us through
the female side; but we do not count him or his in my family."  He turned away and began to
read a book.  It was a decided snub to her.

But mother had a word to say before Mrs. Martindale was done with. Mother has a pride of her
own, and doesn't brook insolence from inferiors; and the housekeeper's conduct seemed to be
rather presuming. Mother, of course, isn't quite our class, though her folk are quite worthy
and enormously rich.  She is one of the Dalmallingtons, the salt people, one of whom got a
peerage when the Conservatives went out.  She said to the housekeeper:

"I think, Mrs. Martindale, that I shall not require your services after this day month!  And
as I don't keep servants in my employment when I dismiss them, here is your month's wages due
on the 25th of this month, and another month in lieu of notice.  Sign this receipt."  She was
writing a receipt as she spoke.  The other signed it without a word, and handed it to her.
She seemed quite flabbergasted.  Mother got up and sailed--that is the way that mother moves
when she is in a wax--out of the room.

Lest I should forget it, let me say here that the dismissed housekeeper was engaged the very
next day by the Countess of Salop.  I may say in explanation that the Earl of Salop, K.G.,
who is Lord-Lieutenant of the County, is jealous of father's position and his growing influence.
Father is going to contest the next election on the Conservative side, and is sure to be made
a Baronet before long.

Letter from Major-General Sir Colin Alexander MacKelpie, V.C., K.C.B., of Croom, Ross, N.B.,
to Rupert Sent Leger, Esq., 14, Newland Park, Dulwich, London, S.E.

                                                           July 4, 1892.

    MY DEAR GODSON,

    I am truly sorry I am unable to agree with your request that I should
    acquiesce in your desire to transfer to Miss Janet MacKelpie the
    property bequeathed to you by your mother, of which property I am a
    trustee.  Let me say at once that, had it been possible to me to do
    so, I should have held it a privilege to further such a wish--not
    because the beneficiare whom you would create is a near kinswoman of
    my own.  That, in truth, is my real difficulty.  I have undertaken a
    trust made by an honourable lady on behalf of her only son--son of a
    man of stainless honour, and a dear friend of my own, and whose son
    has a rich heritage of honour from both parents, and who will, I am
    sure, like to look back on his whole life as worthy of his parents,
    and of those whom his parents trusted.  You will see, I am sure, that
    whatsoever I might grant regarding anyone else, my hands are tied in
    this matter.

    And now let me say, my dear boy, that your letter has given me the
    most intense pleasure.  It is an unspeakable delight to me to find in
    the son of your father--a man whom I loved, and a boy whom I
    love--the same generosity of spirit which endeared your father to all
    his comrades, old as well as young.  Come what may, I shall always be
    proud of you; and if the sword of an old soldier--it is all I
    have--can ever serve you in any way, it and its master's life are,
    and shall be, whilst life remains to him, yours.

    It grieves me to think that Janet cannot, through my act, be given
    that ease and tranquillity of spirit which come from competence.
    But, my dear Rupert, you will be of full age in seven years more.
    Then, if you are in the same mind--and I am sure you will not
    change--you, being your own master, can do freely as you will.  In
    the meantime, to secure, so far as I can, my dear Janet against any
    malign stroke of fortune, I have given orders to my factor to remit
    semi-annually to Janet one full half of such income as may be derived
    in any form from my estate of Croom.  It is, I am sorry to say,
    heavily mortgaged; but of such as is--or may be, free from such
    charge as the mortgage entails--something at least will, I trust,
    remain to her.  And, my dear boy, I can frankly say that it is to me
    a real pleasure that you and I can be linked in one more bond in this
    association of purpose.  I have always held you in my heart as though
    you were my own son.  Let me tell you now that you have acted as I
    should have liked a son of my own, had I been blessed with one, to
    have acted.  God bless you, my dear.

                                                               Yours ever,
                                                    COLIN ALEX. MACKELPIE.

    MY DEAR NEPHEW,

    Your letter of the 30th ult. received.  Have carefully considered
    matter stated, and have come to the conclusion that my duty as a
    trustee would not allow me to give full consent, as you wish.  Let me
    explain.  The testator, in making her will, intended that such
    fortune as she had at disposal should be used to supply to you her
    son such benefits as its annual product should procure.  To this end,
    and to provide against wastefulness or foolishness on your part, or,
    indeed, against any generosity, howsoever worthy, which might
    impoverish you and so defeat her benevolent intentions regarding your
    education, comfort, and future good, she did not place the estate
    directly in your hands, leaving you to do as you might feel inclined
    about it.  But, on the contrary, she entrusted the corpus of it in
    the hands of men whom she believed should be resolute enough and
    strong enough to carry out her intent, even against any cajolements
    or pressure which might be employed to the contrary.  It being her
    intention, then, that such trustees as she appointed would use for
    your benefit the interest accruing annually from the capital at
    command, and that only (as specifically directed in the will), so
    that on your arriving at full age the capital entrusted to us should
    be handed over to you intact, I find a hard-and-fast duty in the
    matter of adhering exactly to the directions given.  I have no doubt
    that my co-trustees regard the matter in exactly the same light.
    Under the circumstances, therefore, we, the trustees, have not only a
    single and united duty towards you as the object of the testator's
    wishes, but towards each other as regards the manner of the carrying
    out of that duty.  I take it, therefore, that it would not be
    consonant with the spirit of the trust or of our own ideas in
    accepting it that any of us should take a course pleasant to himself
    which would or might involve a stern opposition on the part of other
    of the co-trustees.  We have each of us to do the unpleasant part of
    this duty without fear or favour.  You understand, of course, that
    the time which must elapse before you come into absolute possession
    of your estate is a limited one.  As by the terms of the will we are
    to hand over our trust when you have reached the age of twenty-one,
    there are only seven years to expire.  But till then, though I should
    gladly meet your wishes if I could, I must adhere to the duty which I
    have undertaken.  At the expiration of that period you will be quite
    free to divest yourself of your estate without protest or comment of
    any man.

    Having now expressed as clearly as I can the limitations by which I
    am bound with regard to the corpus of your estate, let me say that in
    any other way which is in my power or discretion I shall be most
    happy to see your wishes carried out so far as rests with me.
    Indeed, I shall undertake to use what influence I may possess with my
    co-trustees to induce them to take a similar view of your wishes.  In
    my own thinking you are quite free to use your own property in your
    own way.  But as, until you shall have attained your majority, you
    have only life-user in your mother's bequest, you are only at liberty
    to deal with the annual increment.  On our part as trustees we have a
    first charge on that increment to be used for purposes of your
    maintenance, clothes, and education.  As to what may remain over each
    half-year, you will be free to deal with it as you choose.  On
    receiving from you a written authorization to your trustees, if you
    desire the whole sum or any part of it to be paid over to Miss Janet
    MacKelpie, I shall see that it is effected.  Believe me, that our
    duty is to protect the corpus of the estate, and to this end we may
    not act on any instruction to imperil it.  But there our warranty
    stops.  We can deal during our trusteeship with the corpus only.
    Further, lest there should arise any error on your part, we can deal
    with any general instruction for only so long as it may remain
    unrevoked.  You are, and must be, free to alter your instructions or
    authorizations at any time.  Thus your latest document must be used
    for our guidance.

    As to the general principle involved in your wish I make no comment.
    You are at liberty to deal with your own how you will.  I quite
    understand that your impulse is a generous one, and I fully believe
    that it is in consonance with what had always been the wishes of my
    sister.  Had she been happily alive and had to give judgment of your
    intent, I am convinced that she would have approved.  Therefore, my
    dear nephew, should you so wish, I shall be happy for her sake as
    well as your own to pay over on your account (as a confidential
    matter between you and me), but from my own pocket, a sum equal to
    that which you wish transferred to Miss Janet MacKelpie.  On hearing
    from you I shall know how to act in the matter.  With all good
    wishes,

                                                         Believe me to be,
                                                  Your affectionate uncle,
                                                             ROGER MELTON.

    TO RUPERT SENT LEGER, ESQ.

Letter from Rupert Sent Leger to Roger Melton,

                                                           July 5, 1892.

    MY DEAR UNCLE,

    Thank you heartily for your kind letter.  I quite understand, and now
    see that I should not have asked you as a trustee, such a thing.  I
    see your duty clearly, and agree with your view of it.  I enclose a
    letter directed to my trustees, asking them to pay over annually till
    further direction to Miss Janet MacKelpie at this address whatever
    sum may remain over from the interest of my mother's bequest after
    deduction of such expenses as you may deem fit for my maintenance,
    clothing, and education, together with a sum of one pound sterling
    per month, which was the amount my dear mother always gave me for my
    personal use--"pocket-money," she called it.

    With regard to your most kind and generous offer to give to my dear
    Aunt Janet the sum which I would have given myself, had such been in
    my power, I thank you most truly and sincerely, both for my dear aunt
    (to whom, of course, I shall not mention the matter unless you
    specially authorize me) and myself.  But, indeed, I think it will be
    better not to offer it.  Aunt Janet is very proud, and would not
    accept any benefit.  With me, of course, it is different, for since I
    was a wee child she has been like another mother to me, and I love
    her very much.  Since my mother died--and she, of course, was
    all-in-all to me--there has been no other.  And in such a love as
    ours pride has no place.  Thank you again, dear uncle, and God bless
    you.

                                                       Your loving nephew,
                                                        RUPERT SENT LEGER.

ERNEST ROGER HALBARD MELTON'S RECORD--Continued.

And now re the remaining one of Sir Geoffrey's children, Roger.  He was the third child and
third son, the only daughter, Patience, having been born twenty years after the last of the
four sons.  Concerning Roger, I shall put down all I have heard of him from my father and grandfather.
From my grand-aunt I heard nothing, I was a very small kid when she died; but I remember seeing
her, but only once.  A very tall, handsome woman of a little over thirty, with very dark hair
and light-coloured eyes.  I think they were either grey or blue, but I can't remember which.
She looked very proud and haughty, but I am bound to say that she was very nice to me.  I remember
feeling very jealous of Rupert because his mother looked so distinguished.  Rupert was eight
years older than me, and I was afraid he would beat me if I said anything he did not like.
So I was silent except when I forgot to be, and Rupert said very unkindly, and I think very
unfairly, that I was "A sulky little beast."  I haven't forgot that, and I don't mean to. 
However, it doesn't matter much what he said or thought.  There he is--if he is at all--where
no one can find him, with no money or nothing, for what little he had he settled when he came
of age, on the MacSkelpie.  He wanted to give it to her when his mother died, but father, who
was a trustee, refused; and Uncle Roger, as I call him, who is another, thought the trustees
had no power to allow Rupert to throw away his matrimony, as I called it, making a joke to
father when he called it patrimony.  Old Sir Colin MacSkelpie, who is the third, said he couldn't
take any part in such a permission, as the MacSkelpie was his niece.  He is a rude old man,
that.  I remember when, not remembering his relationship, I spoke of the MacSkelpie, he caught
me a clip on the ear that sent me across the room.  His Scotch is very broad.  I can hear him
say, "Hae some attempt at even Soothern manners, and dinna misca' yer betters, ye young puddock,
or I'll wring yer snoot!"  Father was, I could see, very much offended, but he didn't say anything.
He remembered, I think, that the General is a V.C. man, and was fond of fighting duels. But
to show that the fault was not his, he wrung my ear--and the same ear too!  I suppose he thought
that was justice!  But it's only right to say that he made up for it afterwards.  When the
General had gone he gave me a five-pound note.

I don't think Uncle Roger was very pleased with the way Rupert behaved about the legacy, for
I don't think he ever saw him from that day to this.  Perhaps, of course, it was because Rupert
ran away shortly afterwards; but I shall tell about that when I come to him.  After all, why
should my uncle bother about him?  He is not a Melton at all, and I am to be Head of the House--of
course, when the Lord thinks right to take father to Himself!  Uncle Roger has tons of money,
and he never married, so if he wants to leave it in the right direction he needn't have any
trouble.  He made his money in what he calls "the Eastern Trade."  This, so far as I can gather,
takes in the Levant and all east of it.  I know he has what they call in trade "houses" in
all sorts of places--Turkey, and Greece, and all round them, Morocco, Egypt, and Southern Russia,
and the Holy Land; then on to Persia, India, and all round it; the Chersonese, China, Japan,
and the Pacific Islands.  It is not to be expected that we landowners can know much about trade,
but my uncle covers--or alas! I must say "covered"--a lot of ground, I can tell you. Uncle
Roger was a very grim sort of man, and only that I was brought up to try and be kind to him
I shouldn't ever have dared to speak to him. But when was a child father and mother--especially
mother--forced me to go and see him and be affectionate to him.  He wasn't ever even civil
to me, that I can remember--grumpy old bear!  But, then, he never saw Rupert at all, so that
I take it Master R--- is out of the running altogether for testamentary honours.  The last
time I saw him myself he was distinctly rude.  He treated me as a boy, though I was getting
on for eighteen years of age.  I came into his office without knocking; and without looking
up from his desk, where he was writing, he said: "Get out!  Why do you venture to disturb me
when I'm busy?  Get out, and be damned to you!"  I waited where I was, ready to transfix him
with my eye when he should look up, for I cannot forget that when my father dies I shall be
Head of my House.  But when he did there was no transfixing possible.  He said quite coolly:

"Oh, it's you, is it?  I thought it was one of my office boys.  Sit down, if you want to see
me, and wait till I am ready."  So I sat down and waited.  Father always said that I should
try to conciliate and please my uncle.  Father is a very shrewd man, and Uncle Roger is a very
rich one.

But I don't think Uncle R--- is as shrewd as he thinks he is.  He sometimes makes awful mistakes
in business.  For instance, some years ago he bought an enormous estate on the Adriatic, in
the country they call the "Land of Blue Mountains."  At least, he says he bought it.  He told
father so in confidence.  But he didn't show any title-deeds, and I'm greatly afraid he was
"had."  A bad job for me that he was, for father believes he paid an enormous sum for it, and
as I am his natural heir, it reduces his available estate to so much less.

And now about Rupert.  As I have said, he ran away when he was about fourteen, and we did not
hear about him for years.  When we--or, rather, my father--did hear of him, it was no good
that he heard.  He had gone as a cabin-boy on a sailing ship round the Horn.  Then he joined
an exploring party through the centre of Patagonia, and then another up in Alaska, and a third
to the Aleutian Islands.  After that he went through Central America, and then to Western Africa,
the Pacific Islands, India, and a lot of places.  We all know the wisdom of the adage that
"A rolling stone gathers no moss"; and certainly, if there be any value in moss, Cousin Rupert
will die a poor man.  Indeed, nothing will stand his idiotic, boastful wastefulness.  Look
at the way in which, when he came of age, he made over all his mother's little fortune to the
MacSkelpie! I am sure that, though Uncle Roger made no comment to my father, who, as Head of
our House, should, of course, have been informed, he was not pleased.  My mother, who has a
good fortune in her own right, and has had the sense to keep it in her own control--as I am
to inherit it, and it is not in the entail, I am therefore quite impartial--I can approve of
her spirited conduct in the matter.  We never did think much of Rupert, anyhow; but now, since
he is in the way to be a pauper, and therefore a dangerous nuisance, we look on him as quite
an outsider.  We know what he really is.  For my own part, I loathe and despise him.  Just
now we are irritated with him, for we are all kept on tenterhooks regarding my dear Uncle Roger's
Will.  For Mr. Trent, the attorney who regulated my dear uncle's affairs and has possession
of the Will, says it is necessary to know where every possible beneficiary is to be found before
making the Will public, so we all have to wait.  It is especially hard on me, who am the natural
heir.  It is very thoughtless indeed of Rupert to keep away like that.  I wrote to old MacSkelpie
about it, but he didn't seem to understand or to be at all anxious--he is not the heir!  He
said that probably Rupert Sent Leger--he, too, keeps to the old spelling--did not know of his
uncle's death, or he would have taken steps to relieve our anxiety.  Our anxiety, forsooth!
We are not anxious; we only wish to know.  And if we--and especially me--who have all the annoyance
of thinking of the detestable and unfair death-duties, are anxious, we should be so.  Well,
anyhow, he'll get a properly bitter disappointment and set down when he does turn up and discovers
that he is a pauper without hope!

                                * * * * *

To-day we (father and I) had letters from Mr. Trent, telling us that the whereabouts of "Mr.
Rupert Sent Leger" had been discovered, and that a letter disclosing the fact of poor Uncle
Roger's death had been sent to him.  He was at Titicaca when last heard of.  So goodness only
knows when he may get the letter, which "asks him to come home at once, but only gives to him
such information about the Will as has already been given to every member of the testator's
family."  And that is nil.  I dare say we shall be kept waiting for months before we get hold
of the estate which is ours.  It is too bad!

Letter from Edward Bingham Trent to Ernest Roger Halbard Melton.

                                                176, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS,
                                                      December 28, 1906.

    DEAR SIR,

    I am glad to be able to inform you that I have just heard by letter
    from Mr. Rupert St. Leger that he intended leaving Rio de Janeiro by
    the S.S. Amazon, of the Royal Mail Company, on December 15.  He
    further stated that he would cable just before leaving Rio de
    Janeiro, to say on what day the ship was expected to arrive in
    London.  As all the others possibly interested in the Will of the
    late Roger Melton, and whose names are given to me in his
    instructions regarding the reading of the Will, have been advised,
    and have expressed their intention of being present at that event on
    being apprised of the time and place, I now beg to inform you that by
    cable message received the date scheduled for arrival at the Port of
    London was January 1 prox.  I therefore beg to notify you, subject to
    postponement due to the non-arrival of the Amazon, the reading of
    the Will of the late Roger Melton, Esq., will take place in my office
    on Thursday, January 3 prox., at eleven o'clock a.m.

                                             I have the honour to be, sir,
                                                         Yours faithfully,
                                                     EDWARD BINGHAM TRENT.

                                     TO ERNEST ROGER HALBARD MELTON, ESQ.,
                                                                 HUMCROFT,
                                                                    SALOP.

Cable: Rupert Sent Leger to Edward Bingham Trent. Amazon arrives London January 1.  SENT LEGER.

Telegram (per Lloyd's): Rupert Sent Leger to Edward Bingham Trent.

                                                               THE LIZARD,
                                                            December 31.

    Amazon arrives London to-morrow morning.  All well.--LEGER.

Telegram: Edward Bingham Trent to Ernest Roger Halbard Mellon.

    Rupert Sent Leger arrived.  Reading Will takes place as
    arranged.--TRENT.

ERNEST ROGER HALBARD MELTON'S RECORD.

                                                        January 4, 1907.

The reading of Uncle Roger's Will is over.  Father got a duplicate of Mr. Trent's letter to
me, and of the cable and two telegrams pasted into this Record.  We both waited patiently till
the third--that is, we did not say anything.  The only impatient member of our family was my
mother.  She did say things, and if old Trent had been here his ears would have been red. 
She said what ridiculous nonsense it was delaying the reading of the Will, and keeping the
Heir waiting for the arrival of an obscure person who wasn't even a member of the family, inasmuch
as he didn't bear the name.  I don't think it's quite respectful to one who is some day to
be Head of the House!  I thought father was weakening in his patience when he said: "True,
my dear--true!" and got up and left the room.  Some time afterwards when I passed the library
I heard him walking up and down.

Father and I went up to town on the afternoon of Wednesday, January 2. We stayed, of course,
at Claridge's, where we always stay when we go to town.  Mother wanted to come, too, but father
thought it better not.  She would not agree to stay at home till we both promised to send her
separate telegrams after the reading.

At five minutes to eleven we entered Mr. Trent's office.  Father would not go a moment earlier,
as he said it was bad form to seem eager at any time, but most of all at the reading of a will.
It was a rotten grind, for we had to be walking all over the neighbourhood for half an hour
before it was time, not to be too early.

When we went into the room we found there General Sir Colin MacKelpie and a big man, very bronzed,
whom I took to be Rupert St. Leger--not a very creditable connection to look at, I thought!
He and old MacKelpie took care to be in time!  Rather low, I thought it.  Mr. St. Leger was
reading a letter.  He had evidently come in but lately, for though he seemed to be eager about
it, he was only at the first page, and I could see that there were many sheets.  He did not
look up when we came in, or till he had finished the letter; and you may be sure that neither
I nor my father (who, as Head of the House, should have had more respect from him) took the
trouble to go to him.  After all, he is a pauper and a wastrel, and he has not the honour of
bearing our Name.  The General, however, came forward and greeted us both cordially.  He evidently
had forgotten--or pretended to have--the discourteous way he once treated me, for he spoke
to me quite in a friendly way--I thought more warmly than he did to father.  I was pleased
to be spoken to so nicely, for, after all, whatever his manners may be, he is a distinguished
man--has won the V.C. and a Baronetcy.  He got the latter not long ago, after the Frontier
War in India.  I was not, however, led away into cordiality myself.  I had not forgotten his
rudeness, and I thought that he might be sucking up to me.  I knew that when I had my dear
Uncle Roger's many millions I should be a rather important person; and, of course, he knew
it too.  So I got even with him for his former impudence.  When he held out his hand I put
one finger in it, and said, "How do?"  He got very red and turned away. Father and he had ended
by glaring at each other, so neither of us was sorry to be done with him.  All the time Mr.
St. Leger did not seem to see or hear anything, but went on reading his letter.  I thought
the old MacSkelpie was going to bring him into the matter between us, for as he turned away
I heard him say something under his breath.  It sounded like "Help!" but Mr. S--- did not hear.
He certainly no notice of it.

As the MacS--- and Mr. S--- sat quite silent, neither looking at us, and as father was sitting
on the other side of the room with his chin in his hand, and as I wanted to show that I was
indifferent to the two S's, I took out this notebook, and went on with the Record, bringing
it up to this moment.

THE RECORD--Continued.

When I had finished writing I looked over at Rupert.

When he saw us, he jumped up and went over to father and shook his hand quite warmly.  Father
took him very coolly.  Rupert, however, did not seem to see it, but came towards me heartily.
I happened to be doing something else at the moment, and at first I did not see his hand; but
just as I was looking at it the clock struck eleven.  Whilst it was striking Mr. Trent came
into the room.  Close behind him came his clerk, carrying a locked tin box.  There were two
other men also.  He bowed to us all in turn, beginning with me.  I was standing opposite the
door; the others were scattered about.  Father sat still, but Sir Colin and Mr. St. Leger rose.
Mr. Trent not did shake hands with any of us--not even me. Nothing but his respectful bow.
That is the etiquette for an attorney, I understand, on such formal occasions.

He sat down at the end of the big table in the centre of the room, and asked us to sit round.
Father, of course, as Head of the Family, took the seat at his right hand.  Sir Colin and St.
Leger went to the other side, the former taking the seat next to the attorney.  The General
knows, of course, that a Baronet takes precedence at a ceremony.  I may be a Baronet some day
myself, and have to know these things.

The clerk took the key which his master handed to him, opened the tin box, and took from it
a bundle of papers tied with red tape.  This he placed before the attorney, and put the empty
box behind him on the floor.  Then he and the other man sat at the far end of the table; the
latter took out a big notebook and several pencils, and put them before him.  He was evidently
a shorthand-writer.   Mr. Trent removed the tape from the bundle of papers, which he placed
a little distance in front of him.  He took a sealed envelope from the top, broke the seal,
opened the envelope, and from it took a parchment, in the folds of which were some sealed envelopes,
which he laid in a heap in front of the other paper. Then he unfolded the parchment, and laid
it before him with the outside page up.  He fixed his glasses, and said:

"Gentlemen, the sealed envelope which you have seen me open is endorsed 'My Last Will and Testament--ROGER
MELTON, June, 1906.'  This document"--holding it up--"is as follows:

    "'I Roger Melton of Openshaw Grange in the County of Dorset; of
    number one hundred and twenty-three Berkeley Square London; and of
    the Castle of Vissarion in the Land of the Blue Mountains, being of
    sound mind do make this my Last Will and Testament on this day Monday
    the eleventh day of the month of June in the year of Our Lord one
    thousand nine hundred and six at the office of my old friend and
    Attorney Edward Bingham Trent in number one hundred and seventy-six
    Lincoln's Inn Fields London hereby revoking all other wills that I
    may have formerly made and giving this as my sole and last Will
    making dispositions of my property as follows:

    "'1.  To my kinsman and nephew Ernest Halbard Melton Esquire, justice
    of the Peace, Humcroft the County of Salop, for his sole use and
    benefit the sum of twenty thousand pounds sterling free of all Duties
    Taxes and charges whatever to be paid out of my Five per centum Bonds
    of the City of Montreal, Canada.

    "'2.  To my respected friend and colleague as co-trustee to the Will
    of my late sister Patience late widow of the late Captain Rupert Sent
    Leger who predeceased her, Major-General Sir Colin Alexander
    MacKelpie, Baronet, holder of the Victoria Cross, Knight Commander of
    the Order of the Bath, of Croom in the county of Ross Scotland a sum
    of Twenty thousand pounds sterling free of all Taxes and charges
    whatsoever; to be paid out of my Five per centum Bonds of the City of
    Toronto, Canada.

    "'3.

    "'4.  To the various persons charities and Trustees named in the
    schedule attached to this Will and marked A. the various sums
    mentioned therein, all free of Duties and Taxes and charges
    whatsoever.'"

Here Mr. Trent read out the list here following, and announced for our immediate understanding
of the situation the total amount as two hundred and fifty thousand pounds.  Many of the beneficiaries
were old friends, comrades, dependents, and servants, some of them being left quite large sums
of money and specific objects, such as curios and pictures.

    "'5.  To my kinsman and nephew Ernest Roger Halbard Melton presently
    living in the house of his father at Humcroft Salop the sum of Ten
    thousand pounds sterling.

    "'6.

    "'7.  To my dear nephew Rupert Sent Leger only son of my dear sister
    Patience Melton by her marriage with Captain Rupert Sent Leger the
    sum of one thousand pounds sterling.  I also bequeath to the said
    Rupert Sent Leger a further sum conditional upon his acceptance of
    the terms of a letter addressed to him marked B, and left in the
    custody of the above Edward Bingham Trent and which letter is an
    integral part of this my Will.  And if any beneficiary under this
    Will shall challenge the same or any part of it, or dispute the
    validity thereof, he shall forfeit to the general estate the bequest
    made herein to him, and any such bequest shall cease and be void to
    all intents and purposes whatsoever.

    "'8.  For proper compliance with laws and duties connected with
    testamentary proceedings and to keep my secret trusts secret I direct
    my Executors to pay all Death, Estate, Settlement, Legacy,
    Succession, or other duties charges impositions and assessments
    whatever on the residue of my estate beyond the bequests already
    named, at the scale charged in the case of most distant relatives or
    strangers in blood.

    "'9.  I hereby appoint as my Executors Major-General Sir Colin
    Alexander MacKelpie, Baronet, of Croom in the County of Ross, and
    Edward Bingham Trent Attorney at Law of one hundred and seventy-six
    Lincoln's Inn Fields London West Central with full power to exercise
    their discretion in any circumstance which may arise in the carrying
    out my wishes as expressed in this Will.  As reward for their
    services in this capacity as Executors they are to receive each out
    of the general estate a sum of one hundred thousand pounds sterling
    free of all Duties and impositions whatsoever.

    "12.  The two Memoranda contained in the letters marked B and C are
    Integral Parts of this my Last Will are ultimately at the Probate of
    the Will to be taken as Clauses 10 and 11 of it.  The envelopes are
    marked B and C on both envelope and contents and the contents of each
    is headed thus: B to be read as Clause 10 of my Will and the other C
    to be read as Clause 11 of my Will.

