Military life has some amusing surprises. We had to come to the first line before two non-commissioned
officers found a bath and could bathe themselves. As for me, I have made myself a water-jug
out of a part of a 75.

. . . I will not speak of patience, since a reserve of mere patience may be useless preparation
for the unknown quantity. But I must say that the time goes extremely quickly.

We spend child-like days; indeed we are children in regard to these events, and the benefit
of this war will have been to restore youth to the hearts of those who return.

Dear mother, our village has just had a visit from two shells. Will they be followed by others?
May God help us! The other day they sent us a hundred and fifteen, to wound one man in the wrist!

A house in which a section of our company is living is in flames. We have not seen a soul stirring.
We can only hope that it is well with them.

I am deeply happy to have lived through these few months. They have taught me what one can
make of one's life, in any circumstances.

My fellow-soldiers are splendid examples of the French spirit. . . . They swagger, but their
swagger is only the outer form of a deep and magnificent courage.

My great fault as an artist is that I am always wanting to clothe the soul of the race in some
beautiful garment painted in my own colours. And when people irritate me it is that they are
soiling these beautiful robes; but, as a matter of fact, they would find them a bad encumbrance
in the way of their plain duty.

Christmas Morning.

What a unique night!--night without parallel, in which beauty has triumphed, in which mankind,
notwithstanding their delirium of slaughter, have proved the reality of their conscience.

During the intermittent bombardments a song has never ceased to rise from the whole line.

Opposite to us a most beautiful tenor was declaiming the enemy's Christmas. Much farther off,
beyond the ridges, where our lines begin again, the Marseillaise replied. The marvellous night
lavished on us her stars and meteors. Hymns, hymns, from end to end.

It was the eternal longing for harmony, the indomitable claim for order and beauty and concord.

As for me, I cherished old memories in meditating on the sweetness of the Childhood of Christ.
The freshness, the dewy youthfulness of this French music, were very moving to me. I remembered
the celebrated Sommeil des Pèlerins and the shepherds' chorus. A phrase which is sung by the
Virgin thrilled me: 'Le Seigneur, pour mon fils, a béni cet asile.' The melody rang in my ears
while I was in that little house, with its neighbour in flames, and itself given over to a
precarious fate.

I thought of all happinesses bestowed; I thought that you were perhaps at this moment calling
down a blessing upon my abode. The sky was so lovely that it seemed to smile favourably upon
all petition; but what I want strength to ask for perpetually is consistent wisdom--wisdom
which, human though it may be, is none the less safe from anything that may assail it.

The sun is flooding the country and yet I write by candle-light; now and then I go out into
the back gardens to see the sun. All is light, peace falling from on high upon the deserted
country.

I come back to our room, where the brass of the pretty Meusian beds and the carved wood of
the cupboards shine in the half-light. All these things have suffered through the rough use
the soldiers put them to, but we have real comfort here. We have found table-implements and
a dinner-service, and for two days running we made chocolate in a soup-tureen. Luxury!

O dear mother, if God allows me the joy of returning, what youth will this extraordinary time
have brought back to me! As I wrote to my friend P----, I lead the life of a child in the midst
of people so simple that even my rudimentary existence is complicated in comparison with my
surroundings.

Mother dear, the length of this war tries our power of passive will, but I feel that everything
is coming out as I was able to foresee. I think that these long spells of inactivity will give
repose to the intellectual machine. If I ever have the happiness of once more making use of
mine, it is sure to take a little time to get moving again, but with what new vigour! My last
work was one of pure thought, and my ambition, which all things justify, is to give a more
plastic form to my thought as it develops.

Sunday, December 27, 9 o'clock (5th day in the first line).

It appears that the terrible position, courageously held by us on October 14th, and immediately
lost by our successors, has been retaken, and 200 metres more, but at the price of a hundred
casualties.

Dear mother, want of sleep robs me of all intelligence. True, one needs little of that for
the general run of existence here, but I should have liked to speak to you. The only consolation
is that our love needs no expression.

Very little to tell you. I was quite stupefied by the day's work yesterday, spent entirely
in darkness. From my place I had only a glimpse of a pretty tree against the sky.

To-day, in the charming early morning I saw a beautiful and extremely brilliant star. I had
gone to fetch some coal and water, and on the way back, when daylight had already come, that
extraordinary star still persisted. My corporal, who, like me, was dodging from bush to bush
back to our house, said:

'Do you know what that star is? It is the sign for the enemy's patrol to rally.'

It was true, and at first I felt outraged at this profanation of the sky, and then (apart from
the ingenuity of the thing) I told myself that this star meant, for those poor creatures on
the other side, that they could take the direction of safety. I felt less angry about it then.
The sign had given me so much joy as a star that I decided to stick to my first impression.

December 30.

Your Christmas letter came last night. Perhaps in this very hour when I am writing to you,
mine of the same day is reaching you. At that time, in spite of the risk, I was enjoying all
the beauty, but to-day I confess it is poisoned for me by what we hear of the last slaughter.

On the 26th we were made to remain on duty, in positions occupied only at night as a rule.
Our purely defensive position was lucky that day, for we were exposed only to slight artillery
fire; but on our right a regiment of our division, in one of the terrible emplacements of October
14th, received an awful punishment, of which the inconclusive result cost several hundred lives.
Here in our great village, where our kind hostess knew, as we did, the victims, all is sadness.

Same day.

. . . Nothing attacks the soul. The torture can certainly be very great, especially the apprehension,
but questions coming from the distance can be silenced by acceptation of what is close. The
weather is sweet and soft, and Nature is indifferent. The dead will not spoil the spring. . . .

And then, once the horror of the moment is over, when one sees its place taken by only the
memory of those who have gone, there is a kind of sweetness in the thought of what really exists.
In these solemn woods one realises the inanity of sepulchres and the pomp of funerals. The
souls of the brave have no need of all that. . . .

4 o'clock.

I have just finished the fourth portrait, a lieutenant in my company. He is delighted. Daylight
fades. I send you my thoughts, full of cheerfulness. Hope and wisdom.

January 3, 1915.

. . . Yesterday, after the first satisfaction of finding myself freed from manual work, I contemplated
my stripes, and I felt some humiliation, because instead of the great anonymous superiority
of the ordinary soldier which had put me beyond all military valuation, I had now the distinction
of being a low number in military rank!

But then I felt that each time I looked at my little bits of red wool I should remember my
social duty, a duty which my leaning towards individualism makes me forget only too often.
So I knew I was still free to cultivate my soul, having this final effort to demand of it.

January 4, despatched on the 7th (in a mine).

I am writing to you at the entrance to an underground passage which leads under the enemy emplacement.
My little job is to look out for the safety of the sappers, who are hollowing out and supporting
and consolidating an excavation about twelve metres deep already. To get to this place we have
to plunge into mud up to our thighs, but during the eight hours we spend here we are sheltered
by earthworks several metres thick.

I have six men, with whom I have led an existence of sleeplessness and privation for three
days: this is the benefit I derive from the joyful event of my new status; but as a matter
of fact I am glad to take part in these trials again.

Besides, in a few days the temporary post which I held before may be given to me altogether.
Horrible weather, and to make matters worse, I burnt an absolutely new boot, and am soaking
wet, like the others, but in excellent health.

Dear, I am now going to sleep a little.

January 6, evening.

DEAR MOTHER,--Here we are in a billet after seventy-two consecutive hours without sleep, living
in a nameless treacly substance--rain and filth.

I have had several letters from you, dear beloved mother; the last is dated January 1. How
I love them! But before speaking of them I must sleep a little.

January 7, towards mid-day.

This interrupted letter winds up at the police-station, where my section is on guard. The weather
is still horrible. It's unspeakable, this derangement of our whole existence. We are under
water: the walls are of mud, and the floor and ceiling too.

January 9.

. . . My consolations fail me in these days, on account of the weather. This horrible mess
lets me see nothing whatever. I close with an ardent appeal to our love, and in the certainty
of a justice higher than our own. . . .

Dear mother, as to sending things, I am really in need of nothing. Penury now is of another
kind, but courage, always! Yet is it even sure that moral effort bears any fruit?

January 13, morning (in the trench).

I don't regret my new rank; it has brought me many troubles but a great deal of experience,
and, as a matter of fact, some ameliorations.

So I want to continue to live as fully as possible in this moment, and that will be all the
easier for me if I can feel that you have brought yourself to the idea that my present life
cannot in any way be lost.

I did not tell you enough what pleasure the Revues Hebdomadaires gave me. I found some extracts
from that speech on Lamartine which I am passionately fond of. Circumstances led this poet
to give to his art only the lowest place. Life in general closed him round, imposing on his
great heart a more serious and immediate task than that which awaited his genius.

January 15 (in a new billet), 12.30 P.M.

We no longer have any issue whatever in sight.

My only sanction is in my conscience. We must confide ourselves to an impersonal justice, independent
of any human factor, and to a useful and harmonious destiny, in spite of the horrors of its form.

January 17, afternoon (in a billet).

What shall I say to you on this strange January afternoon, when thunder is followed by snow?

Our billet provides us with many commodities, but above all with an intoxicating beauty and
poetry. Imagine a lake in a park sheltered by high hills, and a castle, or, rather, a splendid
country house. We lodge in the domestic offices, but I don't need any wonderful home comforts
to perfect the dream-like existence that I have led here for three days. Last night we were
visited by some singers. We were very far from the music that I love, but the popular and sentimental
tunes were quite able to replace a finer art, because of the ardent conviction of the singer.
The workman who sang these songs, which were decent, in fact moral (a rather questionable moral,
perhaps, but still a moral), so put his soul into it that the timbre of his voice was altogether
too moving for our hostesses. Here are the ideal people: perhaps their ideal may be said not
to exist and to be purely negative, but months of suffering have taught me to honour it.

I have just seen that Charles Péguy died at the beginning of the war. How terribly French thought
will have been mown down! What surpasses our understanding (and yet what is only natural) is
that civilians are able to continue their normal life while we are in torment. I saw in the
Cri de Paris, which drifted as far as here, a list of concert programmes. What a contrast!
However, mother dear, the essential thing is to have known beauty in moments of grace.

The weather is frightful, but one can feel the coming of spring. At a time like this nothing
can speak of individual hope, only of great general certainties.

January 19.

We have been since yesterday in our second line positions; we came to them in marvellous snow
and frost. A furious sky, with charming rosy colour in it, floated over the visionary forest
in the snow; the trees, limpid blue low down, brown and fretted above, the earth white.

I have received two parcels; the Chanson de Roland gives me infinite pleasure--particularly
the Introduction, treating of the national epic and of the Mahabharata which, it seems, tells
of the fight between the spirits of good and evil.

I am happy in your lovely letters. As for the sufferings which you forebode for me, they are
really very tolerable.

But what we must recognise, and without shame, is that we are a bourgeois people. We have tasted
of the honey of civilisation--poisoned honey, no doubt. But no, surely that sweetness is true,
and we should not be called upon to make of our ordinary existence a preparation for violence.
I know that violence may be salutary to us, especially if in the midst of it we do not lose
sight of normal order and calm.

Order leads to eternal rest. Violence makes life go round. We have, for our object, order and
eternal rest; but without the violence which lets loose reserves of energy, we should be too
inclined to consider order as already attained. But anticipated order can only be a lethargy
which retards the coming of positive order.

Our sufferings arise only from our disappointment in this delay; the coming of true order is
too long for human patience. In any case, however suffering, we would rather not be doers of
violence. It is as when matter in fusion solidifies too quickly and in the wrong shape: it
has to be put to the fire again. This is the part violence plays in human evolution; but that
salutary violence must not make us forget what our æsthetic citizenship had acquired in the
way of perdurable peace and harmony. But our suffering comes precisely from the fact that we
do not forget it!

January 20, morning.

Do not think that I ever deprive myself of sleep. In that matter our regiment is very fitful:
one time we sleep for three days and three nights; another time, the opposite.

Now Nature gives me her support once more. The frightful spell of rain is interrupted by fine
cold days. We live in the midst of beautiful frost and snow; the hard earth gives us a firm
footing.

My little grade gets me some solitude. I no longer have my happy walks by night, but I have
them in the day; my exemption from the hardest work gives me time to realise the beauty of things.

Yesterday, an unspeakable sunset. A filmy atmosphere, with shreds of tender colour; underneath,
the blue cold of the snow.

