The summer had now arrived. On the road the pilgrims met an old lady and a little boy. The
old lady said: "You are priests; do not go forward, for you are about to pass into the country
known as the Country that exterminates Religion. The inhabitants have vowed to kill ten thousand
priests. They have already slain that number all but four noted ones whose arrival they expect;
then their number will be complete."

This old lady was Kuan Yin, with Shên Tsai (Steward), who had come to give them warning. Sun
thereupon changed himself into a candle-moth and flew into the city to examine for himself.
He entered an inn, and heard the innkeeper warning his guests to look after their own clothes
and belongings when they went to sleep. In order to travel safely through the city, Sun decided
that they should all put on turbans and clothing resembling that of the citizens. Perceiving
from the innkeeper's warning that thieving was common, Sun stole some clothing and turbans
for his Master and comrades. Then they all came to the inn at dusk, Sun representing himself
as a horse-dealer.

Fearing that in their sleep their turbans would fall off, and their shaven heads be revealed,
Sun arranged that they should sleep in a cupboard, which he asked the landlady to lock.

During the night robbers came and carried the cupboard away, thinking to find in it silver
to buy horses. A watchman saw many men carrying this cupboard, and became suspicious, and called
out the soldiers. The robbers ran away, leaving the cupboard in the open. The Master was very
angry with Sun for getting him into this danger. He feared that at daylight they would be discovered
and all be executed. But Sun said: "Do not be alarmed; I will save you yet!" He changed himself
into an ant, and escaped from the cupboard. Then he plucked out some hairs and changed them
into a thousand monkeys like himself. To each he gave a razor and a charm for inducing sleep.
When the King and all the officials and their wives had succumbed to this charm, the monkeys
were to shave their heads.

On the morrow there was a terrible commotion throughout the city, as all the leaders and their
families found themselves shaved like Buddhists.

Thus the Master was saved again.

The Return to China

The pilgrims having overcome the predicted eighty difficulties of their outward journey, there
remained only one to be overcome on the homeward way.

They were now returning upon a cloud which had been placed at their disposal, and which had
been charged to bear them safely home. But alas! the cloud broke and precipitated them to the
earth by the side of a wide river which they must cross. There were no ferry-boats or rafts
to be seen, so they were glad to avail themselves of the kind offices of a turtle, who offered
to take them across on his back. But in midstream the turtle reminded Hsüan Chuang of a promise
he had made him when on his outward journey, namely, that he would intercede for him before
the Ruler of the West, and ask his Majesty to forgive all past offences and allow him to resume
his humanity again. The turtle asked him if he had remembered to keep his word. Hsüan Chuang
replied: "I remember our conversation, but I am sorry to say that under great pressure I quite
forgot to keep my promise." "Then," said the turtle, "you are at liberty to dispense with my
services." He then disappeared beneath the water, leaving the pilgrims floundering in the stream
with their precious books. They swam the river, and with great difficulty managed to save a
number of volumes, which they dried in the sun.

The Travellers Honoured

The pilgrims reached the capital of their country without further difficulty. As soon as they
appeared in sight the whole population became greatly excited, and cutting down branches of
willow-trees went out to meet them. As a mark of special distinction the Emperor sent his own
horse for Hsüan Chuang to ride on, and the pilgrims were escorted with royal honours into the
city, where the Emperor and his grateful Court were waiting to receive them. Hsüan Chuang's
queer trio of converts at first caused great amusement among the crowds who thronged to see
them, but when they learned of Sun's superhuman achievements, and his brave defence of the
Master, their amusement was changed into wondering admiration.

But the greatest honours were conferred upon the travellers at a meeting of the Immortals presided
over by Mi-lo Fo, the Coming Buddha. Addressing Hsüan Chuang, the Buddha said, "In a previous
existence you were one of my chief disciples. But for disobedience and for lightly esteeming
the great teaching your soul was imprisoned in the Eastern Land. Now a memorial has been presented
to me stating that you have obtained the True Classics of Salvation, thus, by your faithfulness,
completing your meritorious labours. You are appointed to the high office of Controller of
Sacrifices to his Supreme Majesty the Pearly Emperor."

Turning to Sun, the Buddha said, "You, Sun, for creating a disturbance in the palace of Heaven,
were imprisoned beneath the Mountain of the Five Elements, until the fullness of Heaven's calamities
had descended upon you, and you had repented and had joined the holy religion of Buddha. From
that time you have endeavoured to suppress evil and cherish virtue. And on your journey to
the West you have subjugated evil spirits, ghosts, and demons. For your services you are appointed
God of Victorious Strife."

For his repentance, and for his assistance to his Master, Chu Pa-chieh, the Pig Fairy, was
appointed Head Altar-washer to the Gods. This was the highest office for which he was eligible,
on account of his inherent greed.

Sha Ho-shang was elevated to the rank of Golden Body Perpetual Saint.

Pai Ma, the white horse who had patiently carried Hsüan Chuang and his burden of books, was
led by a god down the Spirit Mountain to the banks of the Pool of Dragon-transformation. Pai
Ma plunged in, when he changed at once into a four-footed dragon, with horns, scales, claws,
and wings complete. From this time he became the chief of the celestial dragon tribe.

Sun's first thought upon receiving his promotion was to get rid of the Head-splitting Helmet.
Accordingly he said to his Master, "Now that I am, like yourself, a Buddha, I want you to relieve
my head of the helmet you imposed upon me during the years of my waywardness." Hsüan Chuang
replied, "If you have really become a Buddha, your helmet should have disappeared of itself.
Are you sure it is still upon your head?" Sun raised his hand, and lo! the helmet was gone.

After this the great assembly broke up, and each of the Immortals returned in peace to his
own celestial abode.

CHAPTER XV

Fox Legends

The Fox

Among the many animals worshipped by the Chinese, those at times seen emerging from coffins
or graves naturally hold a prominent place. They are supposed to be the transmigrated souls
of deceased human beings. We should therefore expect such animals as the fox, stoat, weasel,
etc., to be closely associated with the worship of ghosts, spirits, and suchlike creatures,
and that they should be the subjects of, or included in, a large number of Chinese legends.
This we find. Of these animals the fox is mentioned in Chinese legendary lore perhaps more
often than any other.

The subject of fox-lore has been dealt with exhaustively by my respected colleague, the late
Mr Thomas Watters (formerly H.B.M. Consul-General at Canton, a man of vast learning and extreme
modesty, insufficiently appreciated in his generation), in the Journal of the North China Branch
of the Royal Asiatic Society, viii, 45-65, to which the reader is referred for details. Generally,
the fox is a creature of ill omen, long-lived (living to eight hundred or even a thousand years),
with a peculiar virtue in every part of his body, able to produce fire by striking the ground
with his tail, cunning, cautious, sceptical, able to see into the future, to transform himself
(usually into old men, or scholars, or pretty young maidens), and fond of playing pranks and
tormenting mankind.

Fox Legends

Many interesting fox legends are to be found in a collection of stories entitled Liao chai
chih i, by P'u Sung-ling (seventeenth century A.D.), part of which was translated into English
many years ago by Professor H.A. Giles and appeared in two fascinating volumes called Strange
Stories from a Chinese Studio. These legends were related to the Chinese writer by various
people as their own experiences.

Friendship with Foxes

A certain man had an enormous stack of straw, as big as a hill, in which his servants, taking
what was daily required for use, had made quite a large hole. In this hole a fox fixed his
abode, and would often show himself to the master of the house under the form of an old man.
One day the latter invited the master to walk into his abode; he at first declined, but accepted
on being pressed; and when he got inside, lo! he saw a long suite of handsome apartments. They
then sat down, and exquisitely perfumed tea and wine were brought; but the place was so gloomy
that there was no difference between night and day. By and by, the entertainment being over,
the guest took his leave; and on looking back the beautiful rooms and their contents had all
disappeared. The old man himself was in the habit of going away in the evening and returning
with the first streaks of morning; and as no one was able to follow him, the master of the
house asked him one day whither he went. To this he replied that a friend invited him to take
wine; and then the master begged to be allowed to accompany him, a proposal to which the old
man very reluctantly consented. However, he seized the master by the arm, and away they went
as though riding on the wings of the wind; and in about the time it takes to cook a pot of
millet they reached a city and walked into a restaurant, where there were a number of people
drinking together and making a great noise. The old man led his companion to a gallery above,
from which they could look down on the feasters below; and he himself went down and brought
away from the tables all kinds of nice food and wine, without appearing to be seen or noticed
by any of the company. After a while a man dressed in red garments came forward and laid upon
the table some dishes of cumquats; [36] the master at once requested the old man to go down
and get him some of these. "Ah," replied the latter, "that is an upright man: I cannot approach
him." Thereupon the master said to himself, "By thus seeking the companionship of a fox, I
then am deflected from the true course. Henceforth I too will be an upright man." No sooner
had he formed this resolution than he suddenly lost all control over his body, and fell from
the gallery down among the revellers below. These gentlemen were much astonished by his unexpected
descent; and he himself, looking up, saw there was no gallery to the house, but only a large
beam upon which he had been sitting. He now detailed the whole of the circumstances, and those
present made up a purse for him to pay his travelling expenses; for he was at Yü-t'ai--a thousand
li from home.

The Marriage Lottery

A certain labourer, named Ma T'ien-jung, lost his wife when he was only about twenty years
of age, and was too poor to take another. One day, when out hoeing in the fields, he beheld
a nice-looking young lady leave the path and come tripping across the furrows toward him. Her
face was well painted, [37] and she had altogether such a refined look that Ma concluded she
must have lost her way, and began to make some playful remarks in consequence. "You go along
home," cried the young lady, "and I'll be with you by and by." Ma doubted this rather extraordinary
promise, but she vowed and declared she would not break her word; and then Ma went off, telling
her that his front door faced the north, etc. At midnight the young lady arrived, and then
Ma saw that her hands and face were covered with fine hair, which made him suspect at once
that she was a fox. She did not deny the accusation; and accordingly Ma said to her, "If you
really are one of those wonderful creatures you will be able to get me anything I want; and
I should be much obliged if you would begin by giving me some money to relieve my poverty."
The young lady said she would; and next evening, when she came again, Ma asked her where the
money was. "Dear me!" replied she, "I quite forgot it." When she was going away Ma reminded
her of what he wanted, but on the following evening she made precisely the same excuse, promising
to bring it another day. A few nights afterward Ma asked her once more for the money, and then
she drew from her sleeve two pieces of silver, each weighing about five or six ounces. They
were both of fine quality, with turned-up edges, [38] and Ma was very pleased, and stored them
away in a cupboard. Some months after this he happened to require some money for use, and took
out these pieces; but the person to whom he showed them said they were only pewter, and easily
bit off a portion of one of them with his teeth. Ma was much alarmed, and put the pieces away
directly, taking the opportunity when evening came of abusing the young lady roundly. "It's
all your bad luck," retorted she. "Real gold would be too much for your inferior destiny."
There was an end of that; but Ma went on to say, "I always heard that fox-girls were of surpassing
beauty; how is it you are not?" "Oh," replied the young lady, "we always adapt ourselves to
our company. Now you haven't the luck of an ounce of silver to call your own; and what would
you do, for instance, with a beautiful princess? My beauty may not be good enough for the aristocracy;
but among your big-footed, bent-backed rustics, [39] why, it may safely be called 'surpassing'!"

