Transcribers Note: Title and Table of contents Added.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IDLER MAGAZINE.

AN ILLUSTRATED MONTHLY.

MAY 1893

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

THE IDLER.
  AN INGENUE OF THE SIERRAS.
  BY BRETT HART.

THE MODERN BABYLON.
  BY CYNICUS.

MY FIRST BOOKS.
  "UNDERTONES" AND "IDYLLS AND LEGENDS OF
  INVERBURN."

BALDER'S BALL.
  BY P. VON SCHÖNTHAN.

LIONS IN THEIR DENS.
  V.--THE LORD LIEUTENANT AT DUBLIN CASTLE.
  BY RAYMOND BLATHWAYT.

THE FEAR OF IT.
  BY ROBERT BARR.

MEMOIRS OF A FEMALE NILIHILIST.
  BY SOPHIE WASSILIEFF.

MEMOIRS OF A FEMALE NILIHILIST.
  BY SOPHIE WASSILIEFF.

PEOPLE I HAVE NEVER MET.
  BY SCOTT RANKIN.

MY SERVANT JOHN.
  BY ARCHIBALD FORBES.

THE IDLER'S CLUB.
  THE ARTISTIC TEMPERAMENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IDLER.

AN INGENUE OF THE SIERRAS.

BY BRET HARTE.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY A. S. BOYD. No, sir, I aint in it!"

The station consisted of a stable, a waggon shed, and a building containing three rooms.

"But what are you going to do about this?"

"That depends upon the feller who comes to meet her."

"But you aint going to try to take him? In the course of twenty minutes, however, there was
a slight and somewhat ceremonious bustling in the hall and on the verandah, and Yuba Bill and
the Judge re-appeared.

THE MODERN BABYLON.

BY CYNICUS.

    The day is done for honest thriving
    Through Speculation's reckless driving.

    Your distance Madam, for you see
    You dare not, unless I agree

MY FIRST BOOKS.

"UNDERTONES" AND "IDYLS AND LEGENDS OF INVERBURN."

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY GEORGE HUTCHINSON.

(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MESSRS. FRADELLE AND YOUNG.)

My first serious effort in Literature was what I may call a double-barrelled one; in other
words, I was seriously engaged upon Two Books at the same time, and it was by the merest accident
that they did not appear simultaneously. As it was, only a few months divided one from the
other, and they are always, in my own mind, inseparable, or Siamese, twins. The book of poems
called Undertones was the one; the book of poems called Idyls and Legends of Inverburn was
the other. They were published nearly thirty years ago, when I was still a boy, and as they
happened to bring me into connection, more or less intimately, with some of the leading spirits
of the age, a few notes concerning them may be of interest.

A word, first, as to my literary beginnings. I can scarcely remember the time when the idea
of winning fame as an author had not occurred to me, and so I determined very early to adopt
the literary profession, a determination which I unfortunately carried out, to my own life-long
discomfort, and the annoyance of a large portion of the reading public. When a boy in Glasgow,
I made the acquaintance of David Gray, who was fired with a similar ambition to fly incontinently
to London--

    The terrible City whose neglect is Death,
    Whose smile is Fame!

and to take it by storm. It seemed so easy! "Westminster Abbey," wrote my friend to a correspondent;
"if I live, I shall be buried there--so help me God!" "I mean, after Tennyson's death," I myself
wrote to Philip Hamerton, "to be Poet-laureate!" From these samples of our callow speech, the
modesty of our ambition may be inferred. Well, it all happened just as we planned, only otherwise!
Through some blunder of arrangement we two started for London on the same day, but from different
railway stations, and, until some weeks afterwards, one knew nothing of the other's exodus.
I arrived at King's Cross Railway Station with the conventional half-crown in my pocket; literally
and absolutely, half-a-crown; I wandered about the Great City till I was weary, fell in with
a Thief and Good Samaritan who sheltered me, starved and struggled with abundant happiness,
and finally found myself located at 66, Stamford Street, Waterloo Bridge, in a top room, for
which I paid, when I had the money, seven shillings a week. Here I lived royally, with Duke
Humphrey, for many a day; and hither, one sad morning, I brought my poor friend Gray, whom
I had discovered languishing somewhere in the Borough, and who was already death-struck through
"sleeping out" one night in Hyde Park.[2] "Westminster Abbey--if I live, I shall be buried
there!" Poor country singing-bird, the great Dismal Cage of the Dead was not for him, thank
God! He lies under the open Heaven, close to the little river which he immortalised in song.
After a brief sojourn in the "dear old ghastly bankrupt garret at No. 66," he fluttered home
to die.

To that old garret, in these days, came living men of letters who were of large and important
interest to us poor cheepers from the North: Richard Monckton Milnes, Laurence Oliphant, Sydney
Dobell, among others, who took a kindly interest in my dying comrade. But afterwards, when
I was left to fight the battle alone, the place was solitary. Ever reserved and independent,
not to say "dour" and opinionated, I made no friends, and cared for none. I had found a little
work on the newspapers and magazines, just enough to keep body and soul alive, and while occupied
with this I was busy on the literary Twins to which I referred at the opening of this paper.
What did my isolation matter, when I had all the gods of Greece for company, to say nothing
of the fays and trolls of Scottish Fairyland? Pallas and Aphrodite haunted that old garret;
out on Waterloo Bridge, night after night, I saw Selene and all her nymphs; and when my heart
sank low, the Fairies of Scotland sang me lullabies! It was a happy time. Sometimes, for a
fortnight together, I never had a dinner--save, perhaps, on Sunday, when a good-natured Hebe
would bring me covertly a slice from the landlord's joint. My favourite place of refreshment
was the Caledonian Coffee House in Covent Garden. Here, for a few coppers, I could feast on
coffee and muffins--muffins saturated with butter, and worthy of the gods! Then, issuing forth,
full-fed, glowing, oleaginous, I would light my pipe, and wander out into the lighted streets.

Criticisms for the Athenæum, then edited by Hepworth Dixon, brought me ten-and-sixpence a column.
I used to go to the old office in Wellington Street and have my contributions measured off
on the current number with a foot-rule, by good old John Francis, the publisher. I wrote, too,
for the Literary Gazette, where the pay was less princely--seven-and-sixpence a column, I think,
but with all extracts deducted! The Gazette was then edited by John Morley, who came to the
office daily with a big dog. "I well remember the time when you, a boy, came to me, a boy,
in Catherine Street," wrote honest John to me years afterwards. But the neighbourhood of Covent
Garden had greater wonders! Two or three times a week, walking, black bag in hand, from Charing
Cross Station to the office of All the Year Round in Wellington Street, came the good, the
only Dickens! From that good Genie the poor straggler from Fairyland got solid help and sympathy.
Few can realise now what Dickens was then to London. His humour filled its literature like
broad sunlight; the Gospel of Plum-pudding warmed every poor devil in Bohemia.

At this time, I was (save the mark!) terribly in earnest, with a dogged determination to bow
down to no graven literary Idol, but to judge men of all ranks on their personal merits. I
never had much reverence for Gods of any sort; if the Superior Persons could not win me by
love, I remained heretical. So it was a long time before I came close to any living souls,
and all that time I was working away at my poems. Then, a little later, I used to go o' Sundays
to the open house of Westland Marston, which was then a great haunt of literary Bohemians.
Here I first met Dinah Muloch, the author of John Halifax, who took a great fancy to me, used
to carry me off to her little nest on Hampstead Heath, and lend me all her books. At Hampstead,
too, I foregathered with Sydney Dobell, a strangely beautiful soul, with (what seemed to me
then) very effeminate manners. Dobell's mouth was ever full of very pretty Latinity, for the
most part Virgilian. He was fond of quoting, as an example of perfect expression, sound conveying
absolute sense of the thing described, the doggrel lines--

    "Down the stairs the young missises ran
    To have a look at Miss Kate's young man!"

The sibilants in the first line, he thought, admirably suggested the idea of the young ladies
slipping along the banisters and peeping into the hall!

But I had other friends, more helpful to me in preparing my first twin-offering to the Muses:
the faces under the gas, the painted women on the Bridge (how many a night have I walked up
and down by their sides, and talked to them for hours together), the actors in the theatres,
the ragged groups at the stage doors, London to me, then, was still Fairyland! Even in the
Haymarket, with its babbles of Nymph and Satyr, there was wonderful life from midnight to dawn--deep
sympathy with which told me that I was a born Pagan, and could never be really comfortable
in any modern Temple of the Proprieties. On other points connected with that old life on the
borders of Bohemia, I need not touch; it has all been so well done already by Murger, in the
Vie de Bohème, and it will not bear translation into contemporary English. There were cakes
and ale, pipes and beer, and ginger was hot in the mouth too! Et ego fui in Bohemiâ!

It was while the Twins were fashioning, that I went down in summer time to live at Chertsey
on the Thames, chiefly in order to be near to one I had long admired, Thomas Love Peacock,
the friend of Shelley and the author of Headling Hall--"Greekey Peekey," as they called him,
on account of his prodigious knowledge of things and books Hellenic. I soon grew to love the
dear old man, and sat at his feet, like an obedient pupil, in his green old-fashioned garden
at Lower Halliford. To him I first read some of my Undertones, getting many a rap over the
knuckles for my sacrilegious tampering with Divine Myths. What mercy could I expect from one
who had never forgiven "Johnny" Keats for his frightful perversion of the sacred mystery of
Endymion and Selene? and who was horrified at the base "modernism" of Shelley's "Prometheus
Unbound?" But to think of it! He had known Shelley, and all the rest of the demigods, and his
speech was golden with memories of them all! Dear old Pagan, wonderful in his death as in his
life. When, shortly before he died, his house caught fire, and the mild curate of the parish
begged him to withdraw from the library of books he loved so well, he flatly refused to listen,
and cried roundly, in a line of vehement blank verse, "By the immortal gods, I will not stir!" [3]

Under such auspices, and with all the ardour of youth to help, my Book, or Books, progressed.
Meantime, I was breaking out into poetry in the magazines, and writing "criticism" by the yard.
At last the time came when I remembered another friend with whom I had corresponded, and whose
advice I thought I might now ask with some confidence. This was George Henry Lewes, to whom,
when I was a boy in Glasgow, I had sent a bundle of manuscript, with the blunt question, "Am
I, or am I not, a Poet?" To my delight he had replied to me with a qualified affirmative, saying
that in the productions he had "discerned a real faculty, and perhaps a future poet. I say
perhaps," he added, "because I do not know your age, and because there are so many poetical
blossoms which never come to fruit." He had, furthermore, advised me "to write as much as I
felt impelled to write, but to publish nothing"--at any rate, for a couple of years. Three
years had passed, and I had neither published anything--that is to say, in book form--nor had
I had any further communication with my kind correspondent. To Lewes, then, I wrote, reminding
him of our correspondence, telling him that I had waited, not two years, but three, and that
I now felt inclined to face the public. I soon received an answer, the result of which was
that I went, on Lewes's invitation, to the Priory, North Bank, Regent's Park, and met my friend
and his partner, better known as "George Eliot."

But, as the novelists say, I am anticipating. Sick to death, David Gray had returned to the
cottage of his father, the hand-loom weaver, at Kirkintilloch, and there had peacefully passed
away, leaving as his legacy to the world the volume of beautiful poems published under the
auspices of Lord Houghton. I knew of his death the hour he died; awaking in my bed, I was certain
of my loss, and spoke of it (long before the formal news reached me) to a temporary companion.
This by the way; but what is more to the purpose is that my first grief for a beloved comrade
had expressed itself in the words which were to form the "proem" of my first book--

                    Poet gentle hearted,
                    Are you then departed,
    And have you ceased to dream the dream we loved of old so well?
                    Has the deeply-cherish'd
                    Aspiration perished,
    And are you happy, David, in that heaven where you dwell?
                    Have you found the secret
                    We, so wildly, sought for,
    And is your soul enswath'd at last in the singing robes you fought for?

Full of my dead friend, I spoke of him to Lewes and George Eliot, telling them the piteous
story of his life and death. Both were deeply touched, and Lewes cried, "Tell that story to
the public"; which I did, immediately afterwards, in the Cornhill Magazine. By this time I
had my Twins ready, and had discovered a publisher for one of them, Undertones. The other,
Idyls and Legends of Inverburn, was a ruggeder bantling, containing almost the first blank
verse poems ever written in Scottish dialect. I selected one of the poems, "Willie Baird,"
and showed it to Lewes. He expressed himself delighted, and asked for more. I then showed him
the "Two Babes." "Better and better!" he wrote; "publish a volume of such poems and your position
is assured." More than this, he at once found me a publisher, Mr. George Smith, of Messrs.
Smith and Elder, who offered me a good round sum (such it seemed to me then) for the copyright.
Eventually, however, after "Willie Baird" had been published in the Cornhill, I withdrew the
manuscript from Messrs. Smith and Elder, and transferred it to Mr. Alexander Strahan, who offered
me both more liberal terms and more enthusiastic appreciation.

It was just after the appearance of my story of David Gray in the Cornhill that I first met,
at the Priory, North Bank, with Robert Browning. It was an odd and representative gathering
of men, only one lady being present, the hostess, George Eliot. I was never much of a hero-worshipper;
but I had long been a sympathetic Browningite, and I well remember George Eliot taking me aside
after my first tête-à-tête with the poet, and saying, "Well, what do you think of him? Does
he come up to your ideal?" He didn't quite, I must confess, but I afterwards learned to know
him well and to understand him better. He was delighted with my statement that one of Gray's
wild ideas was to rush over to Florence and "throw himself on the sympathy of Robert Browning."

Phantoms of these first books of mine, how they begin to rise around me! Faces of friends and
counsellors that have flown for ever; the sibylline Marian Evans with her long, weird, dreamy
face; Lewes, with his big brow and keen thoughtful eyes; Browning, pale and spruce, his eye
like a skipper's cocked-up at the weather; Peacock, with his round, mellifluous speech of the
old Greeks; David Gray, great-eyed and beautiful, like Shelley's ghost; Lord Houghton, with
his warm worldly smile and easy-fitting enthusiasm. Where are they all now? Where are the roses
of last summer, the snows of yester year? I passed by the Priory to-day, and it looked like
a great lonely Tomb. In those days, the house where I live now was not built; all up here Hampstead-ways
was grass and fields. It was over these fields that Herbert Spencer and George Eliot used to
walk on their way to Hampstead Heath. The Sibyl has gone, but the great Philosopher still remains,
to brighten the sunshine. It was not my luck to know him then--would it had been!--but he is
my friend and neighbour in these latter days, and, thanks to him, I still get glimpses of the
manners of the old gods.

With the publication of my two first books, I was fairly launched, I may say, on the stormy
waters of literature. When the Athenæum told its readers that "this was poetry, and of a noble
kind," and when Lewes vowed in the Fortnightly Review that even if I "never wrote another line,
my place among the pastoral poets would be undisputed," I suppose I felt happy enough--far
more happy than any praise could make me now. Poor little pigmy in a cockle-boat, I thought
Creation was ringing with my name! I think I must have seemed rather conceited and "bounceable,"
for I have a vivid remembrance of a Fortnightly dinner at the Star and Garter, Richmond, when
Anthony Trollope, angry with me for expressing a doubt about the poetical greatness of Horace,
wanted to fling a decanter at my head! It was about this time that an omniscient publisher,
after an interview with me, exclaimed (the circumstance is historical), "I don't like that
young man; he talked to me as if he was God Almighty, or Lord Byron!" But in sober truth, I
never had the sort of conceit with which men credited me; I merely lacked gullibility, and
saw, at the first glance, the whole unmistakable humbug and insincerity of the Literary Life.
I think still that, as a rule, the profession of letters narrows the sympathy and warps the
intelligence. When I saw the importance which a great man or woman could attach to a piece
of perfunctory criticism, when I saw the care with which this Eminent Person "humoured his
reputation," and the anxiety with which that Eminent Person concealed his true character, I
found my young illusions very rapidly fading. On one occasion, when George Eliot was very much
pestered by an unknown lady, an insignificant individual, who had thrust herself somewhat pertinaciously
upon her, she turned to me and asked, with a smile, for my opinion? I gave it, rudely enough,
to the effect that it was good for "distinguished people" to be reminded occasionally of how
very small consequence they really were, in the mighty life of the World!

From that time until the present I have pursued the vocation into which fatal Fortune, during
boyhood, incontinently thrust me, and have subsisted, ill sometimes, well sometimes, by a busy
pen. I may, therefore, with a certain experience, if with little authority, imitate those who
have preceded me in giving reminiscences of their first literary beginnings, and offer a few
words of advice to my younger brethren--to those persons, I mean, who are entering the profession
of Literature. To begin with, I entirely agree with Mr. Grant Allen in his recent avowal that
Literature is the poorest and least satisfactory of all professions; I will go even further,
and affirm that it is one of the least ennobling. With a fairly extensive knowledge of the
writers of my own period, I can honestly say that I have scarcely met one individual who has
not deteriorated morally by the pursuit of literary Fame. For complete literary success among
contemporaries, it is imperative that a man should either have no real opinions, or be able
to conceal such as he possesses, that he should have one eye on the market and the other on
the public journals, that he should humbug himself into the delusion that book-writing is the
highest work in the Universe, and that he should regulate his likes and dislikes by one law,
that of expediency. If his nature is in arms against anything that is rotten in Society or
in Literature itself, he must be silent. Above all, he must lay this solemn truth to heart,
that when the World speaks well of him the World will demand the price of praise, and that
price will possibly be his living Soul. He may tinker, he may trim, he may succeed, he may
be buried in Westminster Abbey, he may hear before he dies all the people saying, "How good
and great he is! how perfect is his art! how gloriously he embodies the Tendencies of his Time!"[4]
but he will know all the same that the price has been paid, and that his living Soul has gone,
to furnish that whitewashed Sepulchre, a Blameless Reputation.

For one other thing, also, the Neophyte in Literature had better be prepared. He will never
be able to subsist by creative writing unless it so happens that the form of expression he
chooses is popular in form (fiction, for example), and even in that case, the work he does,
if he is to live by it, must be in harmony with the social and artistic status quo. Revolt
of any kind is always disagreeable. Three-fourths of the success of Lord Tennyson (to take
an example) was due to the fact that this fine poet regarded Life and all its phenomena from
the standpoint of the English public school, that he ethically and artistically embodied the
sentiments of our excellent middle-class education. His great American contemporary, Whitman,
in some respects the most commanding spirit of this generation, gained only a few disciples,
and was entirely misunderstood and neglected by contemporary criticism. Another prosperous
writer, to whom I have already alluded, George Eliot, enjoyed enormous popularity in her lifetime,
while the most strenuous and passionate novelist of her period, Charles Reade, was entirely
distanced by her in the immediate race for Fame. In Literature, as in all things, manners and
costume are most important; the hall-mark of contemporary success is perfect Respectability.
It is not respectable to be too candid on any subject, religious, moral, or political. It is
very respectable to say, or imply, that this country is the best of all possible countries,
that War is a noble institution, that the Protestant Religion is grandly liberal, and that
social evils are only diversified forms of social good. Above all, to be respectable, one must
have "beautiful ideas." "Beautiful ideas" are the very best stock-in-trade a young writer can
begin with. They are indispensable to every complete literary outfit. Without them, the short
cut to Parnassus will never be discovered, even though one starts from Rugby.

BALDER'S BALL.

BY P. VON SCHÖNTHAN.

ILLUSTRATED BY J. GÜLICH.

Balder had begged me to give him a bed for the night. He was going to a ball that evening,
and had business early the following morning in Berlin. He lived in such an out-of-the-way
suburb that it would be quite impossible for him to go home to sleep. I was only too delighted
to be of service to him. Although I could not offer him a bed, it would be easy to improvise
a shakedown on which he could have a few hours' rest. I set to work at once, and did the best
I could for him, using a bundle of rags for the pillows, and my old dressing-gown for the mattress.
When Balder saw it, he declared that nothing could be more to his taste.

It was long past midnight, when I was awakened from a refreshing sleep by somebody fumbling
with a key at the lock of my door. Several bungling attempts were made before the key was fitted
into the lock successfully. At last, Balder walked into my room. He presented rather a comical
appearance, with his crush-hat on one side of his head like the leaning tower of Pisa, and
a short overcoat, with his long tail-coat peeping beneath. His face was flushed, partly with
excitement, and he appeared possessed of a burning desire to relate his adventures to somebody.
I had been looking at him with one eye; the other, nearest him, I kept tight shut, and did
not move, for I had no desire to enter into conversation with him. But my friend was not so
easily shaken in his purpose; he came close to my bedside, stepping on my boot-jack, so that
it fell over with a terrible noise, and held the lighted candle within a few inches of my nose.
It was impossible for even the most shameless shammer of sleep to hold out any longer. I opened
my eyes, and said in the sleepiest tone I could assume:

"Enjoyed yourself?"

"Famously, my dear fellow," answered Balder, seating himself on the side of my bed, although
I forestalled his intention, and left hardly an inch for him to sit on. Then he entered into
a long and not very lucid rigmarole on souls which are destined to come together. The story
was rendered all the more difficult to understand from the fact that I kept falling asleep,
and dreaming between his rhapsodies; but I gathered that Balder had met with a young Spanish
lady at the mask ball, who apparently possessed the soul which he was fated to meet, and that
she was the only person on earth who could make him happy. He had spent the whole evening with
her, and she had promised to meet him at the next ball. At his request she had lifted her veil
for one instant, revealing a face of Madonna-like beauty. It was a simple story, but when a
man's brain is fired with love he lingers over it. The words grace, Southern colouring, eyes
like a gazelle, etc., must have been repeated very often, for I dreamed later on that I was
repeating them to myself.

I bore it all patiently, for hospitality is a sacred duty, and, besides, the state which Balder's
mind was in demanded and deserved consideration.

As he went on with his story, he raised his voice, perhaps to rouse my flagging attention.
Suddenly, somebody coughed in the next room. It was not a natural cough, but an artificial
one, evidently intended by my landlady to serve as a gentle reminder that at two o'clock in
the morning all respectable people should be in bed and quiet. My room was only separated from
the apartment in which my landlady and her daughter slept by a door, which was hidden on either
side by a high wardrobe, through which, in spite of this precaution, voices could be heard
very distinctly. I informed Balder of this fact, but, unfortunately, he utterly refused to
take my advice and go quietly to bed. He said he could not sleep, and, unhappily, catching
sight of my coffee-machine, he added that he would like some coffee.

"Sleep if you can," he said; "I can manage it all for myself." He then removed his coat, dressed
himself in the dressing-gown which acted as his mattress, and started to get some water from
the kitchen, knocking things down on the way, and opening and shutting all the wrong doors.
I became resigned, and made up my mind not to waste my breath on any fresh warnings. Somebody
else coughed. It was Fräulein Lieschen this time, my landlady's daughter. At any other time,
Balder himself would have shown more consideration.

Most extraordinary noises proceeded from the water-tap in the kitchen. At last the kitchen
door banged, and Balder re-appeared again. I expressed my regret that I had no methylated spirit,
but he said it did not matter, and catching hold of a bottle of my expensive brandy, poured
a lot into the lamp. Then he sat gazing into the blue flame without blinking.

Crash! went the glass globe, and the boiling water poured all over the table and put out the
fire. I sprang out of my bed. "Good gracious!" I exclaimed, "the whole thing will explode."
He said nothing, but began to pick up the hot pieces of glass patiently. The coughing in the
next room became louder than ever.

"For heaven's sake!" I went on, "try to be quiet if you can. The people in the next room want
to go to sleep. Don't you hear them coughing?"

"Well! I never heard of such impudence! That coughing has disturbed me for some time. Anybody
would think you'd got into an almshouse for old women--Where is the sugar?"

"Up there, in the cigar-box. But don't knock that rapier down."

Balder climbed up on a cane chair. It gave way. Klirr! The rapier fell on the floor, and Balder
with it.

"Confound you, do take care. Didn't I warn you?" An energetic knocking at the door of communication
interrupted me.

"Herr Reif, I must really beg you to be quiet," called my landlady's daughter, not by any means
in her sweetest tones. "We've been kept awake for the last hour."

"That's nothing to us," said Balder from the floor, where he was groping for the rapier that
had rolled under the wardrobe.

"Do be quiet! That is my landlady's daughter, a very respectable girl--"

"Well, is nobody respectable except her? What do you pay rent for?" His face grew red with
rage, and, placing his mouth close to the door, he called out, "What do you want with Reif?
He's in bed. I only wanted to reach down the sugar, and the old rapier fell on my head--a thing
that might happen to anybody! Just lie down quietly and go to sleep. Such a fuss about nothing!
Are we in a hospital?"

"Do be quiet, Balder!" I begged, and my pleading at least had the effect of silencing whatever
else was on his tongue. He thought no more of the sugar, but sat at the table and drank his
self-brewed coffee without it. When he had finished it he lighted a cigarette, at which he
puffed away till the room was full of smoke. As I lay and looked at him, I fell into that peaceful
state in which dreaming and reality are so much mixed that it is hard to distinguish between
them. And then Balder disappeared in clouds of smoke, and I heard and saw no more. I was awakened
again by a light being held near my face. Balder was standing at my bedside with the candle
in his hand. "Ah! I'm glad you've been asleep again!" he said, as I half-opened my eyes and
looked at him. "I want to make a poem to my Spaniard. Have you got a rhyming dictionary anywhere
about?"

"There, on the lowest shelf of the bookcase, but do be quiet."

He got the book without knocking anything down; refilled his coffee-cup, and leant back in
his chair, and murmured--

    "Where shall I meet thee?
      On the Guadelquiver?
    "On the Sequara? On the
      fair Zucar?
    "Or any other far-off
      Spanish river....."

Sleep again overpowered me, and I knew nothing till I was awakened by a noisy discussion taking
place close to me. Balder stood with his face to the door, engaged in a hot dispute with my
neighbours.

"The devil himself couldn't collect his thoughts with that coughing going on," he was saying
as I woke up.

"I was coughing to make you quiet, that endless murmuring made me so nervous!" cried Fräulein
Lieschen, her voice trembling with annoyance.

"I'm writing a poem, I tell you, and when one is composing a poem one must murmur. If you can't
sleep through it, you can't be healthy. You must have eaten too much supper, or something.
You can congratulate yourself that you've got such a lodger as Reif. Do you understand me?
If you had me I'd teach you----"

Again and again, in as persuasive a voice as I could assume, I begged the orator at the wardrobe
to put an end to the speech he was delivering on his views of a landlady's duties towards her
tenants. At length my patience gave way, and, sitting up in bed, I commanded him in a voice
of authority to give, over his poetry and recitation, and to blow out the light and get into
bed. Balder at length seemed to realise that he was trespassing on my hospitality, and that
a certain amount of respect was due to my wishes as his host. He became silent; put his manuscript
carefully into my dressing-gown pocket; cast one last fiery glance at the door, and retired to bed.

I do not know if he saw the daughter of sunny Spain, with her gazelle-like eyes in his dreams,
but I do know that he snored as if he were dreaming of a saw-mill.

About three hours later, the winter daylight struggled into the room. Balder got up and dressed
himself as quietly as a mouse. He seemed as though he was trying to make up for the disturbance
he had made in the night, or, rather, in the morning. He excused himself most politely for
waking me up, but said that he felt that he could not leave without saying good-bye, and thanking
me for my kind hospitality. Then he left the room, closing the door softly behind him. At the
same moment, I heard the door of my landlady's room open. Half a minute's dead silence followed,
and then Balder fell back into my room like one stunned.

"Who is that girl that came out of the next room?" he asked breathlessly.

"Fräulein Lieschen, of course, the daughter of my landlady, to whom you were kind enough to
deliver a lecture in the middle of the night----"

"She is my Spanish girl!" he gasped, grinding his teeth, and shaking his head disconsolately.
He took a long time to recover himself. He sat down again on the side of my bed, as he had
done on his return from the ball. But in what a different mood! He made me swear to him that
I would never reveal his name to Fräulein Lieschen, but that I would excuse him without giving
any clue to his identity, for the disturbance he had caused in the night. This duty I willingly
undertook.

Fräulein Lieschen, who was a good-natured girl, looked at the matter from the comical side,
and readily accepted my unknown friend's apology; and whenever we met on the stairs after that,
she would say jokingly, "Please remember me to your funny friend!"

(PHOTOGRAPHS AND ILLUSTRATIONS BY LAFAYETTE, OF DUBLIN, AND BYRNE, OF RICHMOND.)

The Lord Lieutenant's sister, Mrs. Arthur Henniker, who is helping him to do the honours of
the Castle, and whom I had known in London, Mr. Fulke Greville, and I, were wandering round
the curious old-fashioned buildings and courtyards that constitute the domain of Dublin Castle
one bright breezy day in early spring. A military band was playing opposite the principal entrance,
whilst the guard was being mounted in precisely the same manner as at the guard mounting at
St. James's. The scene was brilliant and inspiriting in the extreme. As we passed through an
archway we came somewhat suddenly upon the massive Round Tower, from the top of which floated
the Union Jack, and which dates back to a period not later than that of King John. Close to
the Round Tower, which bears so curious a resemblance to the still more magnificent tower of
the same name at Windsor, is the Chapel Royal. Here we found the guardian, a quaint, and garrulous
and most obliging old person, waiting to show us over the handsome, albeit somewhat gloomy,
building. Very exact and particular was our cicerone in pointing out to us the old fourteenth
century painted windows, the special pews reserved for His Excellency, and the ladies and gentlemen
of the court; the coats of arms belonging to the various Governors of Ireland, extending over
a period of many hundreds of years--all these, I say, he carefully pointed out, drawing especial
attention to one over which, at the moment, a thin ray of golden sunlight was falling, and
which, he informed me, was the coat of arms of the Earl of Rochester--poor Rochester, the gay,
the witty, the wicked, and the repentant. On quitting the chapel we began to ascend, under
the auspices of another guide, a tremendously steep staircase, which is cut inside the fifteen-feet
stone wall which leads to the chamber in the Round Tower wherein the Ulster King-at-Arms preserves
the ancient records of the Castle. On our pilgrimage up this weary flight of stairs the guide
drew our attention to a gloomy little dungeon, cut out of the thickness of the wall, in which
there is but little light, and wherein the musty smell of ages is plainly discernible. "This,"
whispered Mr. Greville in my ear, "reminds me of Mark Twain's 'Innocents Abroad.'" After a
glance at the record chamber, which was crammed with documents, we passed, with a sense of
relief, into the bright sunny air and the large courtyard, round which are built the handsome
lofty stables in which the Castle horses--of which there are an immense number--are kept, and
which stables, Colonel Forster, the Master of the Horse, told me, are upwards of two hundred
years old.

"And now, Mr. Blathwayt," said Mrs. Henniker, as we passed the two sentries on guard at the
entrance to the great hall, and proceeded up a staircase lined with rifles and through long
sunlit corridors, "you must come with me to my own special sanctum, and rest yourself, after
the object lessons in history which we have been giving you this morning." Here, in a lofty,
white-panelled room, with long windows looking down upon the private gardens of the Castle
in which His Excellency and Captain Streatfield, one of the A.D.C.'s, were walking up and down,
Mrs. Henniker and I sat talking of the past almost more than we did of the actual present.
For, though my hostess is quite a young woman, yet as a daughter of the celebrated Richard
Monckton Milnes, the first Lord Houghton, she cannot fail to have the most delightful reminiscences
of the many celebrities with whom her father was so fond of filling his house.

"But," said she, "proud as I am of my father, I am quite as proud of my grandfather, Richard
Pemberton Milnes, for he was only twenty-two years of age when he refused the choice of a seat
in the Cabinet, either as Chancellor of the Exchequer or Secretary at War. My grandmother,
Mrs. Pemberton Milnes, in her diary for 1809, says that one morning, while we were at breakfast,
a king's messenger drove up in a post-chaise and four with a despatch from Mr. Perceval, offering
my husband the choice of a seat in the Cabinet. Mr. Milnes immediately said, 'Oh, no, I will
not accept either; with my temperament I should be dead in a year.' And nothing could induce
him to do so either," continued Mrs. Henniker, "nor could he be induced to accept the Peerage
which was offered him by Lord Palmerston in 1856."

"But your father was not so rigid in his views as your grandfather, was he, Mrs. Henniker?" said I.

"No," she replied, "certainly he was not, although I don't think that he quitted the House
of Commons, which he always loved, without a pang of real regret. Amongst the many kind congratulations
he received--for no man ever had more friends--was a very pretty one from his old friend, Mrs.
Proctor, in which she said:

    "'He enters from the common air
    Into that temple dim;
    He learns among those ermined Peers
    The diplomatic hymn.
    His Peers? Alas! when will they learn
    To grow up Peers to him?'"

"You must have met many interesting people at your father's house?" I observed, during the
course of our conversation.

"Why, yes," replied she, with an amused smile, "don't you know the ridiculous story that Mr.
Wemyss Reid, in his charming biography of my father, tells, and which, indeed, I believe was
first told by Sir Henry Taylor, in his autobiography? I will tell it you. You know my father
was acquainted with everybody, and his greatest pleasure in life was to introduce the notoriety
of the moment to the leading members of English Society. On the particular occasion on which
this story was told, it is alleged that somebody asked whether a certain murderer--it was Courvoisier,
I think, the valet who killed his master--had been hanged that morning, and my aunt immediately
answered, 'I hope so, or Richard will have him to his breakfast party next Thursday.' But this
story, Mr. Blathwayt, is really absolutely without foundation. I have here," continued Mrs.
Henniker, "a very interesting book of autographs, which I have kept for as far back as I can
remember, and in which everybody who came to our house had to write their names," and as she
spoke she placed in my hands a large volume, on every page of which was a photograph and an
autograph. There was Lecky, the historian; and Trench, the late Archbishop of Dublin; Sir Richard
Burton, the traveller; and Owen Meredith, the poet. There was a portrait of Swinburne when
quite a young man, together with his autograph. "I have known Mr. Swinburne all my life," remarked
Mrs. Henniker. "I used to play croquet with him when I was quite a little girl, and laugh at
him because he used to get in such a passion when I won the game." There was John Bright's
signature, there was that of Philippe d'Orléans and General Chanzy, and last, but not least,
there was that of Charles Dickens.

"My father," explained Mrs. Henniker, "was a very old friend of Dickens, and, curiously enough,
his grandmother was a housekeeper at Crewe Hall, where my mother was born, and I have often
heard her say that the greatest treat that could be given her and her brother and sister was
an afternoon in the housekeeper's room at Crewe, for Mrs. Dickens was a splendid story-teller,
and used to love to gather the children round her and tell them fairy stories. And so it was
only natural that my mother should feel a special interest in Charles Dickens, when she came
to know him in after life. I believe that the very last time that he ever dined out was at
my father's house, when a dinner was specially arranged to enable the Prince of Wales and the
King of the Belgians to make his acquaintance. Even at that time, poor man, he was suffering
so much from rheumatic gout that he had to remain in the dining room until the guests had assembled,
so that he was introduced to the Prince at the dinner table. I might mention that Dean Stanley
wrote to my father, asking him to be one of those who should place before him the proposal
that Charles Dickens should be buried in the Abbey."

Amongst the many interesting letters and papers that Mrs. Henniker showed me was one from Mr.
Gladstone to herself congratulating her on her first novel "Sir George," for Mrs. Henniker,
notwithstanding the rather unfortunate fact that she has many social duties to attend to, which
must necessarily hinder her in what would otherwise be a brilliant literary career, is a remarkably
fine writer of a certain class of fiction, and notably of what may be termed the Society novel.
But almost better than her novels, of which she has produced some two or three within the last
few years, are her short stories, of which she published one, a singularly able study of lower
middle-class life, in an early number of the "Speaker," and which many of the readers of that
journal will remember under the title of a "Bank Holiday." With reference to "Sir George,"
Mr. Gladstone, who is a very old friend of her family, wrote: "My dear Mrs. Henniker,--It is,
I admit, with fear and trembling that I commonly open a novel which is presented to me." He
then goes on to speak in strong terms of eulogy of the book which she had sent to him. The
letter was not without a special interest as giving one a glimpse into the mind of the G.O.M.
on what must be one of the most arduous duties of his hardworking life. Referring to the publication
of her most recent novel, "Foiled," which is a depiction of Society life as it actually is,
and not, as is so frequently the case, of the writer's imagination as to what Society is or
should be, I asked Mrs. Henniker if she wrote her stories from life.

"Well," she replied, "of course there is a general idea in my stories which is taken from the
life I see around me, but, as a rule, I draw from my own imagination. I am a very quick writer,
and I wrote 'Sir George' in one summer holiday. Mr. T. P. O'Connor wanted me to write a novel
to start the new edition of his Sunday paper with, but, unfortunately, I had none ready. I
find myself that, for character sketching, next to studying people from life, the best thing
is to carefully go through the writings of such people as Alfred de Musset, whose little caprices
are so delicate. I think that the best Society novelists at present, who write with a real
knowledge of the people they are describing, are W. E. Norris, Julian Sturgis, and Rhoda Broughton."
We continued in conversation for some time longer, until the time came for afternoon tea, when
Mrs. Henniker suggested that we should join the rest of the party in the drawing room.

Here we found a number of the A.D.C.'s engaged in merry conversation; most of them are quite
young men, immensely popular in the Dublin Society and on the hunting field, where even in
that great sporting country they are usually to be found well in the first flight. We sat talking
for a few minutes, when the door suddenly opened, and a tall, singularly handsome, well-groomed
young man, in morning dress, entered the room. Upon his appearance, Mrs. Henniker and her sister,
Lady Fitzgerald, and the remaining ladies and gentlemen present, rose to their feet, for this
was His Excellency the Viceroy of Ireland. It will interest my American readers to learn that,
not only do Mrs. Henniker and Lady Fitzgerald always rise upon their brother's entrance into
the room, but it is further their custom, as it is the bounden duty of every lady, to curtsey
to him profoundly on leaving the luncheon or dinner table. His Excellency at once joined in
our conversation. We were discussing parodies at the moment, and somebody had stated--indeed
I think it was myself--that a certain parody which had been quoted, and over which we had been
laughing very heartily, was by the well-known Cambridge lyrist, C. C. Calverley.

"No," said Lord Houghton, "it is not by Calverley, it is by----. But," said he, "the funniest
thing I ever heard was this," and he repeated, with immense humour, and with wonderful vivacity,
a set of lines which threw us all into fits of laughter. I regret I am unable to recall them.
The conversation drifting to memories of some of his father's celebrated friends, His Excellency
told me a delightful story of Carlyle. It appeared that the grim old Chelsea hermit had once,
when a child, saved in a teacup three bright halfpence. But a poor old Shetland beggar with
a bad arm came to the door one day. Carlyle gave him all his treasure at once. In after life,
in referring to the incident, he used to say: "The feeling of happiness was most intense; I
would give £100 now to have that feeling for one moment back again."

Mrs. Henniker and the Lord Lieutenant and myself drifted into quiet conversation, whilst the
general talk buzzed around us. She had told me that her brother had written a prize poem at
Harrow, and that his recent publications, "Stray Verses," had all been done in a year.

"His verses are curiously unlike those of my father," she said. "He is very catholic in his
tastes; my father's were more poems of reflection--they were full of the sentiment of his day.
He was much influenced by Mathew Arnold and his school. My brother's are much more lyrical.

"It is a curious thing," continued Mrs. Henniker, "that one or two of my father's poems, which
were thought least of at the time, have really become the most popular and the best known.
There is a story concerning one of them which he often used to tell. He was visiting some friends
here in Ireland, and the beat of the horses' feet upon the road as he drove to the house seemed
to hammer out in his head certain rhythmical ideas which quickly formed themselves into rhyme.
As soon as he got to the house he went to his room and wrote the words straight out. It was
the well-known song beginning--

  "'I wandered by the brookside,'

And having the refrain--

  "'But the beating of my own heart
    Was all the sound I heard.'

"When he came down to dinner he showed these verses to his friends. They all declared that
they were unworthy of him, and advised him to throw them into the fire. However, he did not
take their advice; the moment they were published, they caught the ear of the public, they
were set to music, and they were to be heard wherever one went. Indeed, a friend of his who
was sailing down a river in the Southern States of North America, about a year afterwards,
heard the slaves, as they hoed in the plantations, keeping time by singing a parody of the
lines which had by then become universally familiar. And one day, in later years, my father
was walking in London with a friend; they were passing the end of a street when they heard
a man singing--he stopped and listened, and then rushed after the man. He came back a few moments
afterwards, bearing a roughly printed paper in his hands."

"'I knew it was my song that he was singing,' he said, and he was perfectly right. He was much
delighted.

"'It's a curious fact,' observed the Lord Lieutenant to me, 'and one which Wemyss Reid specially
notes in his biography, that my father produced the greater part of his poetry between 1830
and 1840, just when he was going most into Society.'"

"And you've gone in a good deal for writing verses yourself, following in your father's footsteps,
have you not, Mrs. Henniker?" said I. "Oh," she replied, "I began writing verses very early
in my life, and the most amusing part of it is that, though I was a perfect little imp, I began
with writing hymns. In fact," said she, as she showed me a letter which her father had written
to a friend when she was seven years of age, "my father had to check my early attempts in that
direction." I read with some amusement what Lord Houghton had written about his little daughter,
and I transcribe his words the more readily that they appear to me to give a glimpse into the
mind of the poet and of his ideas on the origin and making of poetry. He writes:

"The second little girl has developed into a verse writer of a very curious ability. She began
theologically and wrote hymns, which I soon checked on observing that she put together words
and sentences out of the sacred verse she knew, and set her to write about things she saw and
observed. What she now produces is very like the verse of William Blake, and containing many
images that she could never have read of. She cannot write, but she dictates them to her elder
sister, who is astonished at the phenomenon. We, of course, do not let her see that it is anything
surprising, and the chances are that it goes off as she gets older and knows more. The lyrical
faculty in many nations seems to belong to a childish condition of mind, and to disappear with
experience and knowledge."

The conversation drifted into a discussion on the present system of interviewing, and Mrs.
Henniker told me, with much amusement, of a reporter of the St. Louis Republic who called upon
her father when he visited America, who, indeed, would not be denied, but forced his way into
Lord Houghton's bedroom, where he found him actually in bed, and who, in relating what had
passed between them, expressed his pleasure at having seen "a real live lord," and recorded
his opinion that he was "as easy and plain as an old shoe!"

Lord Houghton must have been a welcome guest in a country where humour and the capacity for
after-dinner speeches are so warmly appreciated as in America. No more brilliant after-dinner
speaker ever existed than Richard Monckton Milnes, and the capacity for public speech, which
was such a characteristic of the first Lord Houghton, exists no less gracefully in his poetic
and now Vice-Regal son; but it was, perhaps, as a humorist that the father specially excelled,
and in glancing through the many letters and papers which his daughter showed me I soon discovered
this. Writing to his wife many years ago, he said: "Have you heard the last argument in favour
of the Deceased Wife's Sister's Bill? It is unanswerable--if you marry two sisters, you've
only one mother-in-law." And again, on another occasion, in writing to his sister, he quaintly
remarks: "I left Alfred Tennyson in our rooms at the hotel; he is strictly incognito, and known
by everybody except T., who asked him if he was a Southerner, assuming that he was an American."

We sat talking long, revolving many memories, until the shades of evening darkened down upon
the beautiful room, and broke up the party. I joined the A.D.C.'s in their own special sanctum.
There are nine on the Staff, of whom two are always on duty. Their names are as follows:--Capt.
H. Streatfield, Capt. A. B. Ridley, Capt. M. O. Little, Capt. C. W. M. Fielden, Capt. Hon.
H. F. White, Lieut. F. Douglas-Pennant, Lieut. A. P. M. Burke, Lieut. S. J. Meyrick, Lieut.
C. P. Foley, and the Hon. C. B. Fulke-Greville. From what they told me I judged that the life
at the Castle must be singularly pleasant and interesting. Capt. Streatfield, who is a very
doyen among A.D.C.'s, has in that capacity led a life full of interest and variety, for he
told me that for some years he was A.D.C. to the Governor-General of Canada, and that later
on in life he accompanied the late Duke of Clarence as his A.D.C. in India.

The evening drifted on until it was time to dress for dinner, and we assembled, a large party
of men and women, many of whom were in uniform, and some of whom displayed the pale Vice-Regal
blue of the household facings in the long drawing room next to that room in which we had had
afternoon tea. As His Excellency appeared, preceded by the State Steward, Capt. the Hon. H.
White, and followed by Lord Charlemont, the Comptroller, we all passed through the rooms to
St. Patrick's Hall, while the band played some well-known tunes. Capt. Streatfield had cleverly
sketched for me in the afternoon the curious device formed by the tables, which was originally
designed by Lord Charlemont himself, the whole giving the exact effect of a St. Andrew's Cross.
Two huge spreading palms, placed in the hollows of the cross, overshadowed the Vice-Regal party,
which, together with the beautiful music, the grouped banners upon the lofty walls, and the
subdued lights, and the excellent dinner, all went towards the making of a very delightful
evening indeed.

A little later on that night--and dinner upon this occasion was specially early--His Excellency
held a "Drawing room." The scene upon this occasion was particularly brilliant; the long perspectives,
the subdued lighting of the rooms, and the artistic grouping of rare exotics and most exquisite
plants and flowers constituting a tout ensemble, the beauty of which will never fade from my
memory. The ceremony itself was a singularly stately and graceful one. His Excellency, clad
in Court dress, stood in the middle of the throne room, surrounded by the great officers of
State in their robes of office. The aides-de-camp stood in a semicircle between the doorway
and the dais. The first ladies to be presented were His Excellency's own sisters. It was specially
interesting to notice the entry of the débutantes, many of whom were very beautiful, and almost
all of whom were very graceful. Each young girl carried her train, properly arranged, upon
her left arm during her progress through the corridor, drawing-room, and ante-room, until she
passed the barrier and reached the entrance to the presence chamber; there a slight touch from
the first A.D.C. in waiting released it from her arm, and two ushers, who were standing opposite,
spread it carefully upon the floor. I noticed that the A.D.C. was careful not to let the ladies
follow one another too quickly, which was evidently a trial to some of them. At the right moment
he would take the card which each lady bore in her hand, pass it on to the semicircle of aides
who stood within the room, who in their turn passed it on to the Chamberlain, who stood at
the Lord Lieutenant's right hand. He having received it, then read it aloud, and presented
her to the Viceroy. The Viceroy took her by the right hand, which was always ungloved, kissed
her lightly on the cheek, whilst the lady curtsied low to him; then, gracefully backing, she
retired, always with her face to the dais, from the Vice-Regal presence. The gentlemen attending
the drawing room were not, of course, presented. They simply passed through the throne room,
several at a time, bowing two or three times to the Viceroy, and so joined their party waiting
for them in the long gallery.

At the end of the "Drawing room," the Lord Lieutenant and the ladies and gentlemen of the household,
and some of the State officials, formed a procession, and marched with no little grace and
stateliness round the magnificent hall of St. Patrick, whilst the strains of the National Anthem
re-echoed down the long corridors and out into the star-lit windy night.

THE FEAR OF IT.

BY ROBERT BARR.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY A. S. BOYD.

The sea was done with him.

MEMOIRS OF A FEMALE NIHILIST.

BY SOPHIE WASSILIEFF.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. ST. M. FITZ-GERALD.

INTRODUCTION.

BY MRS. MONA CAIRD.

In giving to the world her exciting and terrible story, "Mademoiselle Sophie" has also conveyed
incidentally some idea of her remarkable character. As I had the privilege of hearing from
her own lips all that she relates in this series of papers, I can supplement her unintentional
self-portraiture by recording the impression that she made upon me at our first meeting.

I had always taken a strong interest in the political movements of Russia and in the Slavonic
races whose character and temperament have something more or less mysterious to the Western
mind. The Russian novel presents rather than explains this mystery. It is perhaps to the Tartar
blood that we must attribute the incomprehensible element. Between the East and the West, there
is, psychologically speaking, a great gulf fixed.

There are times when the reader of Russian fiction begins to wonder whether he or the author
is not a little off his mental balance, so fantastic, so inconsequent, yet so insanely logical
(so to put it) are the beings with whom he finds himself surrounded--beings, however, evidently
and bewilderingly human, so that though they may appear scarcely in their right minds (as we
should judge our compatriots), they can never be mistaken for mere figures of sawdust and plaster
such as people extensive realms of Western fiction. It is the reality of the characters, coupled
with their eccentric demeanour (the most humdrum Slav appears wildly original to the inexperienced
Anglo-Saxon), that stirs anxiety.

Would "Mademoiselle Sophie" be like one of these erratic creations, or would she resemble the
heroines of Russian political history whose marvellous courage and endurance excite the wonder
of all who can even dimly realise what it must be to live from moment to moment in imminent
peril of life and limb, and in ceaseless anxiety as to the fate of relatives and friends? Of
all the trials that "Mademoiselle Sophie" went through, this last, she told me, was the worst.
The absolute silence, the absolute ignorance in which she had to pass her days, seemed to have
broken her wonderful spirit more than any other hardship.

It is not every day in the Nineteenth century that one comes in contact with a human being
who has had to submit to the "ordeal by fire" in this literal mediæval fashion; who has endured
perils, insults, physical privations and torments, coupled with intense and ceaseless anxiety
for years; and this in extreme youth before the troubles and difficulties of life have more
gradually and gently taught the lessons of endurance and silent courage that probably have
to be learnt by all who are destined to develop and gather force as they go, and not to dwindle
and weaken, as seems to be the lot of those less fortunate in circumstance or less well-equipped
at birth for the struggles that in one form or another present themselves in every career.

Russia is a nation that may almost be said to have preserved to this day the conditions of
the Middle Ages. It affords, therefore, to the curious an opportunity for the study of the
effect upon human character of these conditions. Here are still retained, to all intents and
purposes, the thumbscrew and the rack; indeed, this is the case in a literal sense, for "Mademoiselle
Sophie" told me that it was certain that prisoners were sometimes tortured in secret, after
the good old-fashioned methods, not exactly officially (since the matter was kept more or less
dark), but nevertheless by men in the employment of the Government who were able to take advantage
of the powers bestowed by their office to practise despotism even to this extreme.

Many of the so-called Nihilists or Revolutionists (as "Mademoiselle Sophie" insisted on styling
the more moderate party to which she belongs) seem to stand in the position of the early Protestants,
when they protested against the abuses of the Catholic Church while retaining their reverence
for the institution itself.

It is not against the Government, so much as against the illegal and tyrannous cruelty practised
by many of its officials, that a certain section of the "Revolutionists" raise a remonstrance.
It is astonishing how conservative some of these terrible "Revolutionists" appear to be. Many
of them still look to the Tzar with a pathetic conviction that all would be well, if only the
cry of his distressed children could reach his paternal ears. They ask so little; they would
be thankful for such small mercies; yet there is apparently slight hope that the Tzar will
be allowed to hear or would listen to the appeal of his much-enduring people!

"Mademoiselle Sophie" had promised to take tea with me on a particular afternoon, and to give
me an account of her imprisonment. I had heard the general outlines before, but was anxious
to hear her tell the tale in her own words. I may mention here that "Mademoiselle Sophie's"
acquaintance had been sought, and that the idea of writing her story for publication in England
did not emanate from her. Of her veracity there is not the faintest question; moreover, there
was, evidently, no motive for deception.

Though I had heard that "Mademoiselle Sophie" had been a mere girl when she was first sent
to face the rigours of a Russian prison, I was scarcely prepared to see anyone so young and
fragile-looking as the lady in black who entered the room, with a quiet, reserved manner, courteous
and dignified. I felt something like a thrill of dismay when I realised that it was an extremely
sensitive woman who had gone through the scenes that she describes in these pages. She had
been the more ill-prepared for the hardships of prison-life from having passed her childhood
amidst every care and comfort.

She was singularly reticent and self-possessed. In speaking, there was no emotional emphasis,
whatever she might be saying. The only comment on her narrative that one could detect was an
occasional touch of cold scorn or irony. The more terrible the incident that she related, the
more quiet became her tones.

It seemed as if the flame of indignation had burnt itself out in the years of suffering that
she had passed through. The traces of those years were in her face. Its very stillness and
pallor seemed to tell the tale of pain endured silently and in solitude for so long. It was
written, too, in the steadfast quality that expressed itself in her whole bearing, and in the
entire absence of any petty self-consciousness. In spite of the awful nervous strain that she
had endured she had no little restless habits or movements of any kind.

One felt in her a vast reserve force and a dauntless courage. It was courage of a kind that
is almost terrible, for it accompanied a highly organised and imaginative temperament, a nervous
temperament, be it observed, which implies controlled and ordered, not uncontrolled and disordered
nervous power. The half-hysterical persons who class themselves among the possessors of this
temperament are apt to overlook that important distinction.

"Mademoiselle Sophie" gained none of her courage from insensitiveness. Her whole life was dedicated
to the cause of her country, and the personal elements had been sacrificed to this object beyond
herself: the forlorn hope which has already claimed so many of the noblest and bravest spirits
in all the Tzar's dominions.

After "Mademoiselle Sophie" left that afternoon, I could not help placing her in imagination
beside the average woman that our own civilisation has produced (not a fair comparison doubtless);
and the latter seemed painfully small in aim and motive, pitifully petty and fussy and lacking
in repose and dignity when compared with the calm heroine of this Russian romance.

But human beings are the creations of their circumstances, and the circumstances of a Western
woman's life are not favourable to the development of the grander qualities, though, indeed,
they are often harassing and bewildering, and cruel enough to demand heroism as great even
as that of "Mademoiselle Sophie." I think it would be salutary for all of us--men as well as
women of the West--to come more often within the influence of such natures as this; natures
that command the tribute of admiration and the reverence that one must instantly yield to great
moral strength and nobility.

I.

DEAR MESSIEURS,

You have asked me for a few reminiscences of the time when I took a more or less active part
in the Revolutionary Movement in Russia--a sort of autobiographical sketch, to be published
in English. As I never had the good fortune to render any really important service to my country,
I have no right to draw public attention upon myself, and no wish to do so. But my experiences,
of which I have told you a good deal by word of mouth, have been, save for sundry personal
details, very like those of thousands of other young Russians, who, unwilling and unable to
accept quietly the order of things that weighs so heavily upon their country, have devoted
all their strength and all their faculties to the great struggle for freedom, which you of
Western Europe call the Nihilistic Movement. In your opinion, it is just because of its simplicity
and its likeness to many others, that the story of my life may possess some value; and perhaps
you are right. At any rate, since to interest if but a small number of people in the lot of
those who serve "the cause," will be to serve the cause still further--and it is, for the rest,
the cause of common humanity and justice--I herewith put at your disposition such of my souvenirs
as I am at liberty to make public, at the same time reminding you of your promise to preserve
my incognito intact.

And now for my facts:

It was the year 188-. My brother had been arrested during the winter. At the beginning of the
spring I went to X----, to the house of my uncle and aunt, to pass the summer, and to rest
after the emotional strain I had been under. At least, such was the explanation of my leaving
St. Petersburg which I gave to the police of that city, when I asked them for a passport for
the interior of the Empire. As a matter of fact, I was anxious to see certain of my brother's
friends at X----, with the object of trying, with their assistance, to destroy the traces of
his last visit there--traces which, if discovered by the police, might be extremely detrimental
to Serge's interests. On my arrival in the town--where, by the way, it was my habit to pass
all my holidays--I found the Nihilist community, many of whose members were old friends of
mine, in serious trouble. The police had just been making a terrible raid among them. Many
had been arrested. The others, under strict surveillance, were daily expecting to be arrested
in their turn.

This circumstance, apart from the regret it caused me, had a considerable influence upon my
relations with the local revolutionary organisation. The centre of this organisation was a
group of young men and women, who, besides the revolutionary agitation that they were carrying
on, were in correspondence with other groups of the same sort, for the purpose of exchanging
books, helping comrades to escape from prison and fly the country, and so forth. X---- is a
big town, chiefly given up to manufactures; and at the time of which I speak there was gathered
around this central group a sort of duplex association, composed, on the one hand, of well-educated
young folks, and, on the other, of working men. As a precautionary measure, the association
as a whole was split up into a number of small circles, or clubs, that met separately, and
knew nothing of one another. It was especially in these smaller clubs that the members of the
central group carried on their propaganda, the aim of which was then, as it is to-day, to alter
the present method of government, to rid the country of the despotism that bears so heavily
upon it, and stops its development, and thus to make possible at once an improvement in the
condition of the labouring classes, and a reconstruction of Russian society upon a more rational
and a more humane basis. With the working people, however, the revolutionists were often forced
to begin by teaching them to read and write. Outside of all these clubs, there were in the
town a good many people who, while taking no direct part in the movement, sympathised with
it, and did what they could to aid and abet it by gifts of money, and by providing refuge for
such of the active members as were hiding from the police. With these very useful friends the
revolutionists kept up more or less continuous relations.

The programme of the group at X---- needed for its accomplishment a large force of devoted
and trustworthy workers; and the arrests that had been made just before my arrival had considerably
thinned their ranks. This circumstance, as I have said, changed the nature of my own relations
with the revolutionary organisation. Hitherto my visits to the town had been short, only to
spend my school holidays in fact. Very young, moreover, I had never belonged to any of the
clubs; and my friendships with their members had been purely personal. Now, however, I was
older, and I had come to stop at X---- for several months. In the face of the gaps the late
arrests had made in the little army of revolutionists, I felt that I must enlist. I offered
my services, and they were accepted.

Towards the middle of the summer, my uncle and aunt went to Moroznoië, a little village near
the town where their property lay. Leaving St. Petersburg before the end of the University
year, I, a student of medicine, had been obliged to put off my examinations until the autumn.
These examinations, or rather, my necessity to work and prepare for them, coupled with the
presence of a fine public library at X----, gave me the pretext I needed to stay behind during
the family villegiatura. After some opposition, and a good deal of talk about the superiority
of country air, my uncle and aunt consented--the more easily, perhaps, because, after all,
I was not to be alone; my Aunt Vera and two servants were to remain in the town house. Besides,
my uncle and his wife were often coming back for a day or two at a time, and I promised to
pass all my Sundays with them. This arrangement suited me perfectly. My Aunt Vera, my dead
father's sister, was the sweetest and gentlest of women, an invalid, with an infinite tenderness
for Serge and myself, the orphans of her favourite brother. The servants also, an old nurse
and a gardener, were entirely devoted to my family and to me. I was therefore free, mistress
of the house, of my time, of myself. Divided between my studies, a few visits paid and received,
and my weekly trip to Moroznoië, my life flowed peacefully, monotonously enough--on the surface.

Down deep, alas! it was not the same. Our revolutionary group was being harried by the police,
and their arrests and domiciliary visits were conducted with so much skill and certainty, we
were forced to believe at last that we were betrayed by a traitor or a spy among our own numbers.
Strictly watched by the police, who kept us "moving on," avoided on that account by some of
our friends, and knowing perfectly well that a single false step might bring ruin not only
upon ourselves, but upon many others, we were obliged to be extremely cautious, and not to
meet too often. A few furtive interviews now and again for the interchange of news, a few sparsely
attended rendezvous for the purpose of keeping the threads of our organisation together, were
pretty nearly all that we thought safe to permit ourselves. This mode of life--so tranquil
to outward appearance, but in reality so full of anxiety for each and all; a life without a
to-morrow, so that when we parted we did not know whether we should ever meet again, and it
became our habit to say Adieu instead of Au revoir--lasted for me about five months. Melancholy
enough, indeed, it had notwithstanding a charm of its own, a charm that sprang partly, perhaps,
from the consciousness of dangers incurred for a noble object, and from the feeling of grave
moral responsibility that we all had. A few episodes of that time are deeply fixed in my memory.
A meeting we held one evening at twilight in a rich park near the town, a park that belonged
to a high personage at the Imperial Court, whose son was one of us. There we met and whispered,
and the murmur of the leaves overhead and the deepening shadows of the nightfall lent an intense
colour of poetry to the situation. And then another meeting, in the poor little lodging of
a factory-operative--a special meeting, called because our suspicions of treason within our
own ranks had centred now upon a certain individual, a student, a college friend of my cousins,
a constant visitor at our house. At this meeting a plan was adopted to test our suspect, and
prove whether or not he was the guilty man. I, the next time he called, was to put him on a
false scent; I was to tell him that a reunion of Nihilists would be held at a given place and
a given time; and then we would await developments. I was also to draw him out, if possible,
and make him convict himself from his own mouth. But this I could not do. I put him on the
false scent; but I couldn't draw him out. It is terrible to hold the life of a human being
between your hands, even though that human being be the basest of cowards and traitors.

Well, at the time and place that I told him of, surely enough, the police turned up, and naturally
they found nobody there. But during the two following nights twenty fresh arrests took place;
and I was one of those arrested. My cousins' friend, feeling himself discovered and menaced,
had made haste to deliver us into the hands of our enemies!

That evening I had come home rather late, and had then sat and chatted for a long while with
aunt Vera, so that it was well towards midnight before I started to go to bed. Half-way upstairs,
I was stopped by a noise; footsteps and stifled voices, mingled with the clang of spurs and
sabres. I waited a moment, to take breath, which had failed me suddenly; then I went back downstairs.
A violent pull at the bell, an imperative pull, sounded at the garden gate; and in a moment
was followed by another at the door of the house. It woke the old nurse, and brought my aunt
Vera from her room. Having been a little forewarned by me of the possibility of such a visit
as this, she questioned me with a frightened glance. I answered "Yes," by a sign of the head,
and begged her under my breath to delay "them" as long as possible before letting "them" come
in. The idea of being able to render me a service, perhaps the last, gave her strength and
courage; and while slowly, very slowly, she moved towards the door, where the nocturnal visitors
were getting impatient and trying to force the lock, I went into the dining-room. A moment
later I heard her sweet trembling voice assuring Monsieur le Colonel de Gendarmerie that there
was no one in the house; all the family were at Moroznoië; my uncle had been in town on Monday,
but had left again on Tuesday, and wouldn't return till the end of next week; and there was
no one here but herself, the speaker, and a young lady visiting her. In this little respite,
which I had arranged for myself without too well knowing why, I remained inert in the room,
lighted feebly by a single candle, and tried to gather my thoughts together: they were slow
enough to respond to my efforts. My first notion was that of flight, and, automatically, I
opened a window. Close at hand, behind some shrubbery, I perceived the glitter of a gendarme's
uniform. There would surely be others in the garden and in the courtyard; and for the rest,
fly--? How, and whither? I shut the window, and coming back to the middle of the room, I caught
a glimpse of myself in the chimney-glass. I was very pale. Was I going to be a coward? This
question, and that pale face in the mirror, awoke in me other thoughts, brought back to my
memory other faces: that of my brother, who, a few months before, had gone so bravely from
his home, to which he would never return, to the prison that he would perhaps never leave;
those of friends lately arrested; those of so many, many noble men and women. Was I going to
be a coward? So the examples set by these others turned my attention from myself, calmed me,
gave me strength. I could hear the voice of Colonel P----, who, impatient of my aunt's parleying,
briefly bade her hold her tongue, and conduct him to the presence of her niece, Mademoiselle
Sophie. That voice, rude and gross, had the effect of changing the moral depression which I
had felt a moment ago into a sort of intense nervous excitement; and at the moment when the
Colonel, followed by his men, appeared upon the threshold of the dining-room, honouring me
with the very least respectful of bows, I, instead of saluting him in return, met him with
a gaze as fixed and haughty as his own.

A minute later the Colonel was installed at the dinner-table, with the whole household arraigned
before him, and everybody forbidden to leave the room. He asked my aunt Vera for the keys of
the house, and the search began. The gendarmes scattered themselves through all the rooms,
through the garden, the courtyard, the offices, and turned everything upside down, emptying
wardrobes and cupboards, unmaking the beds, moving the articles of furniture to see that nothing
was hidden behind them, and trying the screws to discover if there were any secret drawers.
In my bedroom, which was of course the object of a very particular attention, a spy dressed
in civilian's costume got up on the tables and chairs, and tapped on the walls. Another drew
the ashes, still hot, from the stove, and examined them by the light of a lamp, held by a big
gendarme. From time to time these men would come back to the dining-room, bringing armfuls
of books, and school papers belonging to my cousins, which they would deposit upon the table
before Colonel P----. After looking them over, he would throw them aside with such manifest
ill humour, that I, who by this time had myself completely under control, couldn't let the
occasion pass to condole with him on the sad nature of his trade. The whole search was a useless
and odious farce, for I knew that there was nothing in the house of the kind they were looking
for. Still I wasn't sorry to let them prolong it, for that gave me more time to stay there
at home, beside my aunt Vera, who, smaller and feebler and paler than ever, turned her dear
eyes, full of fear and tenderness, upon my face, and kept stroking my hand with her two trembling
ones.

The search was nearly over, when a gendarme came in from the stable with a great parcel of
books, done up in green cloth, which he laid before the Colonel. Opened, the parcel proved
to contain not books only, but forbidden books--books by Herbert Spencer, by Mr. Ruskin, by
Monsieur Renan! I was astonished at seeing them, and my first thought was that they belonged
to my brother, who might have forgotten them there in the stable, or to my cousins, who, without
being revolutionists, were interested in forbidden literature just because it was forbidden.
So when the Colonel, having finished his inspection of them, asked me whom they belonged to,
I answered quietly, "To me." My aunt Vera, to whom I had always promised never to bring "forbidden"
things into the house, looked at me sadly, reproachfully. Ah! my dear aunt, I lied in saying
they were mine; but in my situation a few forbidden books couldn't matter much; whereas for
the others, for my innocent cousins--who knows what serious trouble they might have got them into?

The Colonel demanded, "Where do these books come from?"

"From the people who had them last."

"Their names?"

"What, Colonel! You, the chief of the secret police of X----, you don't know!"

This answer kindled a light of anger in his little Chinese eyes. For my part, I had spoken
very slowly, looking steadily at him, and smiling as if it were a jest; but it wasn't exactly
a jest. While the Colonel had been questioning me, I had reflected. It was impossible that
my cousins should have had books of this sort in their possession without speaking to me about
them; and it was most unlikely that they could have belonged to Serge, who, always very careful,
made it a strict rule never to bring anything of a compromising nature to our uncle's house.
But I had often heard that the political police, to create evidence against people whom they
strongly suspected, but who were too prudent for their taste, and also to make their arrests
appear less arbitrary in the eyes of the public, had a pleasant habit of bringing "forbidden"
things with them to the houses where they made their perquisitions, for the sake of supplying
what they might not be able to find. Was this what had happened now? Had I been caught in such
a trap?

That was what I asked the Colonel in the form of a little jest.

Did he understand? He answered with a piece of advice: that I should be less gay. For the rest,
he was in a hurry; he looked at his watch; announced that all was over, and that I was under
arrest; and called for witnesses to sign the procès-verbal. Our gardener ran out to find somebody.
He came back with two people who had been attracted to our house by the lights and the noise.
One was a cabman, the other was Dr. A----, a neighbour who had recently come to live at X----,
and whom we knew only by sight. These men stared at me with surprise and curiosity. I scarcely
saw them. The words "Under arrest" had completely upset my Aunt Vera, who, till then so calm,
was now crying bitterly, covering me with kisses, and repeating, "My child! My child!" The
old nurse also was crying, sobbing, and muttering to herself. Just when I feel that I myself
am about to give way, and cry too--that which I am anxious, most anxious, not to do--she, the
old nurse, throws herself at the Colonel's feet, and begs grace for me, telling him that I
am too young, too frail, to go to prison, that I have been coughing these many days, that I
may die there! This makes the Colonel smile. For me, I tell the old nurse to get up. I scold
her. Stupefied, trembling, she sinks to the floor in a corner of the room, and weeps for me
as the Russian peasants weep for their dead, mingling with her sobs memories of our common
past, praises of my good qualities, and so forth. All this, uttered in a low sing-song, is
like a sort of funeral dirge.

I hear it still at the moment when the Colonel shuts me into a cab, with two gendarmes facing
me, and another on the box beside the driver, to whom the order is given, "The fortress!"

Sophie Wassilieff.

(To be continued.)

PEOPLE I HAVE NEVER MET.

BY SCOTT RANKIN.

BRET HARTE.

"'When a man is interviewed he, consciously or unconsciously, prepares himself for it and isn't
at all natural. Suppose, for instance, you found your man in a railway car, and entered casually
into conversation with him. Then you would probably get his real thoughts--the man as he is.
But, of course, when a man is asked questions, and sees the answers taken down in shorthand,
it is a very different thing.'"--Bret Harte.

MY SERVANT JOHN.

BY ARCHIBALD FORBES.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY FREDERIC VILLIERS.

Goa is a forlorn and decayed settlement on the west coast of Hindustan, the last remaining
relic of the once wide dominions of the Portuguese in India. Its inhabitants are of the Roman
Catholic faith, ever since in the 16th century St. Francis Xavier, the colleague of Loyola
in the foundation of the Society of Jesus, baptised the Goanese in a mass. Its once splendid
capital is now a miasmatic wreck, its cathedrals and churches are ruined and roofless, and
only a few black nuns remain to keep alight the sacred fire before a crumbling altar. Of all
European nations the Portuguese have intermingled most freely with the dusky races over which
they held dominion, with the curious result that the offspring of the cross is darker in hue
than the original coloured population. To-day, the adult males of Goa, such of them as have
any enterprise, emigrate into less dull and dead regions of India, and are found everywhere
as cooks, ship-stewards, messengers, and in similar menial capacities. They all call themselves
Portuguese, and own high-sounding Portuguese surnames. Domingo de Gonsalvez de Soto will cook
your curry, and Pedro de Guiterraz is content to act as dry nurse to your wife's babies. The
vice of those dusky noblemen is their addiction to drink.

The better sort of these self-expatriated Goanese are eager to serve as travelling servants,
and when you have the luck to chance on a reasonably sober fellow, no better servant can be
found anywhere. Being a Christian, he has no caste, and has no religious scruples preventing
him from wiping your razor after you have shaved, or from eating his dinner after your shadow
has happened to fall across the table. In Bombay there is a regular club or society of these
Goanese travelling servants, and when the transient wayfarer lands in that city from the Peninsular
and Oriental mail boat, one of the first things he is advised to do is to send round to the
"Goa Club" and desire the secretary to send him a travelling servant. The result is a lottery.
The man arrives, mostly a good-looking fellow, tall and slight, of very dark olive complexion,
with smooth glossy hair, large soft eyes, and well-cut features. He produces a packet of chafed
and dingy testimonials of character from previous employers, all full of commendation, and
not one of which is worth the paper it is written on, because the good-natured previous employer
was too soft of heart to speak his mind on paper. If by chance a stern and ruthless person
has characterised Bartolomeo de Braganza as drunken, lazy, and dishonest, Bartolomeo, who has
learnt to read English, promptly destroys the "chit," and the stern man's object is thus frustrated.
But you must take the Goa man as he comes, for it is a law of the society that its members
are offered in strict succession as available, and that no picking and choosing is to be allowed.
When with the Prince of Wales during his tour in India, the man who fell to me, good, steady,
honest Francis, was simply a dusky jewel. My comrade, Mr. Henty, the well-known author of so
many boys' books, rather crowed over me because Domingo, his man, seemed more spry and smart
than did my Francis. But Francis had often to attend on Henty as well as myself, when Domingo
the quick-witted was lying blind drunk at the back of the tent, and once and again I have seen
Henty carrying down on his back to the departing train the unconscious servant on whom at the
beginning he had congratulated himself.

In the summer of 1876, Shere Ali, the old Ameer of Afghanistan, took it into his head to pick
a quarrel with the Viceroy of British India. Lord Lytton was always spoiling for a fight himself,
and thus there was every prospect of a lively little war. If war should occur, it was my duty
to be in the thick of it, and I reached Bombay well in time to see the opening of the campaign.
Knowing the ropes, within an hour of landing I sent to the "Goa Club" for a servant, begging
that, if possible, I might have worthy Francis, who had fully satisfied me during the tour
of the Prince. Francis was not available, and there was sent me a tall, prepossessing-looking
young man, who presented himself as "John Assissis de Compostella de Crucis," but was quite
content to answer to the name of "John."

John seemed a capable man, but was occasionally muzzy. After visiting Simla, the headquarters
of the Viceroy, I started for the frontier, where the army was mustering. On the way down I
spent a couple of days at Umballa, to buy kit and saddlery. The train by which I was going
to travel up-country was due at Umballa about midnight. I instructed John to have everything
at the depôt in good time, and went to dine at the mess of the Carbineers. In due time I reached
the station, accompanied by several officers of that fine regiment. The train was at the platform;
my belongings I found in a chaotic heap, crowned by John fast asleep, who, when awakened, proved
to be extremely drunk. I could not dispense with the man; I had to cure him. There was but
one chance of doing this. I gave him then and there a severe beating. A fatigue party of Carbineers
pitched my kit into the baggage car, and threw John in after it. Next day he was sore, but
penitent. There was no need to send him to Dwight, even if that establishment had been in the
Punjaub instead of in Illinois. John was redeemed without resorting to the chloride of gold
cure, and in his case at least, I was quite as successful a practitioner as any Dr. Keeley
could have been. John de Compostella, &c., was a dead sober man during my subsequent experience
of him, at least till close on the time we parted.

And, once cured of fuddling, he turned out a most worthy and efficient fellow. He lacked the
dash of Andreas, but he was as true as steel. In the attack on Ali Musjid, in the throat of
the Khyber Pass, the native groom, who was leading my horse behind me, became demoralised by
the rather heavy fire of big cannon balls from the fort, and skulked to the rear with the horse.
John had no call to come under fire, since the groom was specially paid for doing so; but abusing
the latter for a coward in the expressive vernacular of India, he laid hold of the reins, and
was up right at my back just as the close musketry fighting began. He took his chances through
it manfully, had my pack pony up within half an hour after the fighting was over, and before
the darkness fell had cooked a capital little dinner for myself and a comrade, whose commissariat
had gone astray. Next morning the fort was found evacuated. I determined to ride back down
the pass to the field telegraph post at its mouth. The General wrote in my notebook a telegram
announcing the good news to the Commander-in-Chief; and poor Cavagnari, the political officer,
who was afterwards massacred at Cabul, wrote another message to the same effect to the Viceroy.
I expected to have to walk some distance to our bivouac of the night; but lo! as I turned to
go, there was John with my horse, close up.

In one of the hill expeditions, the advanced section of the force I accompanied had to penetrate
a narrow and gloomy pass which was beset on either side by swarms of Afghans, who slated us
severely with their long-range jezails. With this leading detachment there somehow was no surgeon,
and as men were going down and something had to be done, it devolved upon me, as having some
experience in this kind of work in previous campaigns, to undertake a spell of amateur surgery.
John behaved magnificently as my assistant. With his light touch and long lissom hands, the
fellow seemed to have a natural instinct for successful bandaging. I was glad that we could
do no more than bandage, and that we had no instruments, else I believe that John would not
have hesitated to undertake a capital operation. As for the Afghan bullets, he did not shrink
as they splashed on the stones around him; he did not treat them with disdain; he simply ignored
them. The soldiers swore that he ought to have the war medal for the good and plucky work he
was doing; and a Major protested that if his full titles, which John always gave in full when
his name was asked, had not been so confoundedly long, he would have asked the General to mention
the Goa man in despatches.

John liked war, but he was not fond of the rapid changes of temperature up on the "roof of
the world" in Afghanistan. During one twenty-four hours at Jellalabad, we had one man killed
by a sunstroke, and another frozen to death on sentry duty in the night. On Christmas morning,
when I rose at sunrise, the thermometer was far below freezing point; the water in the brass
basin in my tent was frozen solid, and I was glad to wrap myself in furs. At noon the thermometer
was over a hundred in the shade, and we were all so hot as to wish with Sydney Smith that we
could take off our flesh and sit in our bones. John was delighted when, as there seemed no
immediate prospect of further hostilities in Afghanistan, I departed therefrom to pay a visit
to King Thebaw, of Burmah, who has since been disestablished. When in his capital of Mandalay,
there came to me a telegram from England informing me of the massacre by the Zulus of a thousand
British soldiers at Isandlwana, in South Africa, and instructing me to hurry thither with all
possible speed. John had none of the Hindoo dislike to cross the "dark water," and he accompanied
me to Aden, where we made connection with a potty little steamer, which called into every paltry
and fever-smelling Portuguese port all along the east coast of Africa, and at length dropped
us at Durban, the seaport of the British colony of Natal, in South Africa, and the base of
the warlike operations against the Zulus.

There are many Hindoos engaged on the Natal sugar plantations, and in that particularly one-horse
Colony, every native of India is known indiscriminately by the term of "coolie." John, it is
true, was a native of India, but he was no "coolie"; he could read, write, and speak English,
and was altogether a superior person. I would not take him up country to be bullied and demeaned
as a "coolie," and I made for him an arrangement with the proprietor of my hotel that during
my absence John should help to wait in his restaurant. During the Zulu campaign I was abominably
served by a lazy Africander and a lazier St. Helena boy. When Ulundi was fought, and Cetewayo's
kraal was burned, I was glad to return to Durban, and take passage for India. John, I found,
had during my absence become one of the prominent inhabitants of Durban. He had now the full
charge of the hotel restaurant--he was the centurion of the dinner-table, with men under him,
to whom he said "do this," and they did it. His skill in dishes new to Natal, especially in
curries, had crowded the restaurant, and the landlord had taken the opportunity of raising
his tariff. He came to me privily, and said frankly that John was making his fortune for him,
that he was willing to give him a share in his business in a year's time if he would but stay,
and meantime was ready to pay him a stipend of twenty dollars a week. The wages at which John
served me, and I had been told I was paying him extravagantly, was eleven dollars a month.
I told the landlord that I should not think of standing in the way of my man's prosperity,
but would rather influence him in favour of an opportunity so promising. Then I sent for John,
explained to him the hotel-keeper's proposal, and suggested that he should take time to think
the matter over. John wept. "I no stay here, master, not if it was hundred rupees a day! I
go with master; I no stop in Durban!" Nothing would shake his resolve, and so John and I came
to England together.

The only thing John did not like in England was that the street boys insisted on regarding
him as a Zulu, and treating him contumeliously accordingly. His great delight was when I went
on a round of visits to country houses, and took him with me as valet. Then he was the hero
of the servants' hall. I will not say that he lied, but from anecdotes of him that occasionally
came to my ears, it would seem he created the impression that he habitually waded in knee-deep
gore, and that he was in the habit of contemplating with equanimity battle-fields littered
with the slaughtered combatants. John was quite the small lion of the hour. He had very graceful
ways, and great skill in making tasteful bouquets. These he would present to the ladies of
the household when they came downstairs of a morning, with a graceful salaam, and the expression
of a hope that they had slept well. The spectacle of John, seen from the drawing-room windows
of Chevening, Lord Stanhope's seat in Kent, as he swaggered across the park to church one Sunday
morning in frock coat and silk hat, with a buxom cook on one arm and a tall and lean lady's
maid on the other, will never be effaced from the recollection of those who witnessed it with
shrieks of laughter.

In those days I lived in a flat, my modest establishment consisting of an old female housekeeper
and John. For the most part my two domestics were good friends, but there were periods of estrangement
during which they were not on speaking terms; and then they sat on opposite sides of the kitchen
table, and communicated with each other exclusively by written notes of an excessively formal
character, passed across the table. This stiffness of etiquette had its amusing side, but was
occasionally embarrassing, since neither was uniformly intelligible with the pen. The result
was that sometimes I got no dinner at all, and at other times, when I was dining alone, the
board groaned with the profusion, and when I had company there would not be enough to go round;
these awkwardnesses arising from the absence of a good understanding between my two domestics.
I could not part with the old female servant, and I began rather to tire of John, whose head
had become considerably swollen because of the notice which had been taken of him. It was all
very well to be in a position to gratify ladies who were giving dinner parties, and who wrote
me little notes asking for the loan for a few hours of John, to make that wonderful prawn curry
of which he had the sole recipe. But John used to return from that culinary operation very
late, and with indications that his beverage during his exertions had not been wholly confined
to water. To my knowledge he had a wife in Goa, yet I feared he had his flirtations here in
London. Once I charged him with inconstancy to the lady in Goa, but he repudiated the aspersion
with the quaint denial: "No, master, many ladies are loving me, but I don't love no ladies!"

However, I had in view to spend a winter in the States, and resolved to send John home. He
wept copiously when I told him of this resolve, and professed his anxiety to die in my service.
But I remained firm, and reminded him that he had not seen his wife in Goa for nearly three
years. That argument appeared to carry little weight with him; but he tearfully submitted to
the inevitable. I made him a good present, and obtained for him from the Peninsular and Oriental
people a free passage to Bombay, and wages besides in the capacity of a saloon steward. I saw
him off from Southampton; at the moment of parting he emitted lugubrious howls. He never fulfilled
his promise of writing to me, and I gave up the expectation of hearing of him any more.

Some two years later, I went to Australia by way of San Francisco and New Zealand. At Auckland
I found letters and newspapers awaiting me from Sydney and Melbourne. Among the papers was
a Melbourne illustrated journal, on a page of which I found a full-length portrait of the redoubtable
John, his many-syllabled name given at full length, with a memoir of his military experiences,
affixed to which was a fac-simile of the certificate of character which I had given him when
we parted. It was further stated that "Mr. Compostella de Crucis" was for the present serving
in the capacity of butler to a financial magnate in one of the suburbs of Melbourne, but that
it was his intention to purchase the goodwill of a thriving restaurant named. Among the first
to greet me on the Melbourne jetty was John, radiant with delight, and eager to accompany me
throughout my projected lecture tour. I dissuaded him in his own interest from doing so; and
when I finally quitted the pleasant city by the shore of Hobson's Bay, John was running with
success the "Maison Doré" in Burke Street. I fear, if she is alive, that his wife in Goa is
a "grass widow" to this day.

[Sidenote: Dr. Parker says It depends upon the health of the artist.]

Is the artistic temperament a blessing or a curse? We should first decide what the artistic
temperament means. Artistic is a large word. It includes painting, acting, poetry, music, literature,
preaching. Whether the temperament is a blessing or a curse largely depends upon the health
of the artist. If De Quincey was an artist, the artistic temperament was a curse. So also with
Thomas Carlyle. So also with Charles Lamb. The artistic temperament is creative, sympathetic,
responsive; it sees everything, feels everything, realises everything, on a scale of exaggeration.
It is in quest of ideals, and all ideals are more or less in the clouds, and not seldom at
the tip-top of the rainbow. Those who undertake such long journeys are subject to disappointment
and fatigue by the way; if ever they do come to the end of their journey it is probably in
a temper of fretfulness and exasperation. A sudden knock at the door may drive an artist into
hysterics. He is always working at the end of his tether. There is nothing more tantalising
than an eternal quest after the ideal; like the horizon, it recedes from the traveller; like
the mirage, it vanishes before the claims of hunger and thirst. On the other hand, it has enjoyments
all its own. The idealist is always face to face with a great expectation. Perhaps to-night
he may realise it; certainly in the morning it will be much nearer; and as for the third day,
it will be realised in some great festival of delight. There is, too, a subtle selfishness
in this quest after the ideal--the Holy Grail of the imagination. The artist keeps the secret
from his brother artists until he can startle them with some gracious surprise. He almost pities
them, as he thinks of the revelation that is about to dawn upon unsuspecting and slumberous
minds. Postponement of this surprise is a torment to the mind which had planned its dazzling
disclosure. The greatest pain of all to the artistic temperament is that it lives in the world
of the Impossible and the Unattainable. That arm must be very weary which for a lifetime has
been stretched out towards the horizon. Then think of the cross-lights, the mingled colours,
the uncalculated relations which enter into the composition of the dreamer's life, and say
whether that life is not more of a chaos than a cosmos. If the artistic temperament came within
the range of our own choice and will, possibly we could do something with it; but inasmuch
as it is ours by heredity, and not by adoption, we must do the best we can with the stubborn
fatality.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Mrs. Lynn Linton thinks it depends upon ourselves.]

If to feel keenly be a nobler state than to drone with blunt edges through that thicket of
myrtle and nightshade we call life, then is the artistic temperament a blessing. If the oyster
be more enviable than the nightingale, then is it a curse. It all depends on our angle, and
the colours we most prefer in the prism. He who has the artistic temperament knows depths and
heights such as Those Others cannot even imagine. The feet that spring into the courts of heaven
by a look or a word--by the glory of the starry night or the radiance of the dawn--stray down
into the deepest abysses of hell, when Love has died or Nature forgets to smile. To the artistic
temperament there is but little of the mean of things. The "Mezzo Cammin" is a line too narrow
for their eager steps. Proportion is the one quality in emotional geometry which is left out
of their lesson of life. Their grammar deals only with superlatives; and the positive seems
to them inelastic, dead and common-place. Imaginative sympathy colours and transforms the whole
picture of existence. By this sympathy the artistic of temperament knows the secrets of souls,
and understands all where Those Others see nothing. And herein lies one source of those waters
of bitterness which so often flood his heart. Feeling for and with his kind, as accurately
as the mirror reflects the object held before it, he finds none to share the pain, the joy,
the indignation he endures by this sympathy, which is reflection. He visits the Grundyite,
who says "Shocking," "Not nice," when human nature writhes in its agony and cries aloud for
that drop of water which he, the virtuous conformist, refuses. He goes to the flat-footed and
broad-waisted; those who plod along the beaten highway, and turn neither to the right hand
nor to the left, neither to the hills nor the hollows. But he speaks a foreign language, and
they heed him not. The iron-bound care nought. Does that cry of suffering raise the price of
stocks or lower that of grain? Tush! let it pass. To each back its own burden. So he carries
the piteous tale whereby his heart is aching for sympathy, and Those Others give him stones
for bread and a serpent for a fish. Then he looks up to heaven, and asks if there be indeed
a God to suffer all this wrong; or if there be, How long, O Lord, how long! The artistic temperament
is not merely artistic perception, with which it is so often confounded. You may be steeped
to the lips in that temperament, and yet not be able to arrange flowers with deftness, draw
a volute, or strike a true chord. And you may be able to do all these, and yet be dead in heart
and cold in brain--a mere curly-wigged poodle doing its clever tricks with dexterity, and obedient
to the hand that feeds it. The artistic temperament is not this, but something far different.
Would you know what it is, and what it brings? It is the Key of Life, without which no one
can understand the mysteries nor hear the secret music; and it plants a dagger in the flesh,
with the handle outward. And at this handle, the careless, the brutal, the malicious, and the
dense witted--all Those Others--lunge, pull, and twist by turns. But they do not see the blood
trickling from the wound; and they would neither care nor yet desist if they did.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Rutland Barrington regards it as a mixed blessing.]

The artistic temperament is a most decidedly "mixed" blessing, and the more artistic the more
mixed! This is strongly demonstrated to me personally in the person of a friend of my school
days who has become in later years an acquaintance only; a falling away, due entirely to the
abnormal development of his artistic temperament, which will not allow him to see any good
in anything or anybody that does not come up to his ideal, the artistic temperament in his
case taking the form of a kind of mental yellow jaundice! Of course, I consider that I myself
possess this temperament, and am willing to admit that the natural friction caused by the meeting
with a less highly developed temperament (?) than his own may have led to the feeling of mental
and artistic superiority which has convinced one of us that association with the other is undesirable!
I fancy that the two classes most strongly influenced by this temperament are the painters
and the actors, who display characteristics of remarkable resemblance, as, for instance, all
painters (I use the word "painters" because "artists" is applied equally to both classes) are
fully alive to the beauties of Nature in all her varied moods, but, when those beauties are
depicted on the canvasses of others, are somewhat prone to discover a comprehension of those
beauties inferior to their own! So, too, with actors, the majority of whom possess the feeling,
though they may not always express it, that, although Mr. Garrick Siddons's efforts were distinctly
good, there are people, not a hundred miles off, who might have shone to more advantage in
the part! There is no doubt that the artistic temperament magnifies all the pleasures of one's
life by the infusion of a keener zest for enjoyment, the natural outcome of such temperament,
but the reverse of the medal is equally well cut, and the misfortunes and disappointments of
life are the more keenly felt in consequence of the possession of this temperament! Whether
the balance is equally maintained or not is a question only to be answered by the individual,
but I incline to the belief that life is smoother to the phlegmatic than the artistic temperament!--though
I should not believe it would be possible to find any person possessing the latter who would
be willing to renounce it, in spite of its disadvantages, so I must perforce conclude it to
be a blessing! Q.E.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Miss Helen Mathers looks upon it as a curse.]

If the artistic temperament will enable a man to be rendered profoundly happy by one of those
trifles that Nature strews each day in our path--say a salmon-pink sunset seen through the
lacing of tall black boles of leafless trees, or a flower, happed upon unexpectedly, that reads
you a half-forgotten lesson in "country art"--that same man will be reduced to abject misery
and real suffering by a dirty tablecloth, a vulgar, uncongenial companion, or even the presence
of a bright blue gown in a chamber subdued to utmost harmonies in gold and yellow. The curse
with him follows all too swiftly on the blessing of enjoyment--and lasts longer. And in matters
of love, the artistic temperament is a doubtful blessing. The shape of a man's nose will turn
a woman's eyes away from the goodness of his character, and a badly-fitting coat so outrage
her beauty-loving propensities, that she is provoked into mistaking her mind's approval for
real heart affection, and she chooses the artistic man, only to find, probably, that, like
the O'Flaherty, one cannot comfortably worship a lily, without a considerable amount of mutton
chops as well--and in the end she may sigh for the tasteless man who yet had the taste to love her.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: We worship the "beautiful" too much.]

I think most of us carry this tendency to worship the beautiful too far, and our scorn for
the physically unsatisfactory is one of our cruellest and most glaring latter-day faults. It
is true we are equally cordially hard on ourselves, and hate our vile bodies, when their aches
and pains intrude themselves between us and our soul's delight--for it is from the Pagan, not
the Christian, point of view that most lovers of beauty regard life. And if a man's taste require
costly gratification of it, say by pictures, by marbles, by the thousand and one sumptuous
trifles that go to make the modern house beautiful, then that man is not possessed of true
taste, and he will be poorer in his palace than if he dwelt ragged in Nature's lap, with all
her riches, and those of his own mind, at his disposal. For the true artistic sense impels
one to work always--and always to better and not worsen, what it touches. The artistic sense
that lazes, and lets other people work to gratify it, is a bastard one, more, it is immoral,
and neither bestows, nor receives, grace. It cannot be fashioned, it may not be bought, this
strange sense of the inward beauty of things; nor a man's wife, nor his own soul, nor his beautiful
house shall teach it him, and he will never be one with the Universe, with God, understanding
all indeed, but not by written word or speech, but by what was born in him. And though he may
suffer through it too, though to the ugly, the deaf, and the afflicted, such a gift may seem
bestowed in cruellest irony, still when all is said and done I can think of no better summary
of the whole than that given by Philip Sydney's immortal lines on love. You all know them--

  "He who for love hath undergone
  The worst that can befall
  Is happier thousandfold than he
  Who ne'er hath loved at all ...
  For in his soul a grace hath reigned
  That nothing else could bring."

[Sidenote: Alfred C. Calmour is doubtful.]

The artistic temperament is both a blessing and a curse. It is a blessing when it lifts a man's
soul out of the slough of vulgar commonplace, and turns his thoughts to the contemplation of
noble things, while at the same time it enables him to give something to the world which it
would not willingly lose, and for which he can obtain adequate remuneration. But it (the artistic
temperament) is a curse when it tempts a man from that honest employment which provides him
with bread and butter, and leaves him a defeated, disappointed, and heartbroken wretch, unable
to return to that humble course of life which had happily supplied his daily wants.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Mrs. Panton considers it a fantastic demon.]

Personally speaking, I consider the possession of the artistic temperament a distinct curse
to those unfortunate folk who have to live with the owner of this fantastic demon; while if
the possessor knows how to deal with his old Man of the Sea he has a most powerful engine at
his command: for once let the world at large know that the "artistic temperament" has entered
into him, his strangest freaks become more than put-up-able with, and the brighter he is in
company, and the more irritable and offensive he is at home, the more law is given him, and
the less work, and, may I add, decency, is expected of him, until he appears to agree with
his compeers or followers, and begins to be as eccentric as he likes. Commencing with long
hair touching his shoulders, and with an absence of the use of Someone's soap, he passes on
through mystic moonlight glances to a still more artistic appreciation of the charms of Nature
at her simplest, until Mrs. Grundy looks askance, and duchesses and other leaders of Society
squabble over him, and try one against the other for the honour and pleasure of his society.
So far, then, the artistic temperament is for its possessor a fine thing, for it cannot put
up with indifferent fare and lodging: it can only prove its existence by the manner in which
it annexes all that is richest, most beautiful, and, to use a byegone slang word, most Precious.
For it is reserved the luxurious Chesterfield or Divan, heaped with rainbow-like cushions,
and placed in the most becoming light, until the quick, unhappy day dawns when another "artistic
temperament" comes to the fore, and the first retires perforce, if not a better, certainly
a sadder, man, for all that has been happening unto him. Now comes the time when one sees the
slow-witted creature sinking gradually into the mere haunter of the Gaiety bar: when the sacred
lamp burns brightly, and causes him to recollect, sadly indeed, the days that are no more.
Or we find the man who has learned his bitter lesson, and recognising that he still exists--albeit
the beast is dead--turns to the work he was meant to do, and does that nobly, though the mad
and beautiful days of his youth have done, and all that caused life to be lovely has faded
slowly into the ewigkeit.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: But that, if true, it must often be a delight.]

If the "artistic temperament" is true and not a sham, to the owner at least it must often be
a sheer delight, for the elf or "troll" which goes by this name takes such possession of the
owner that under his guidance he sees "What man may never see, the star that travels far."
"The light" that the poet declares shone on sea or shore, shines for him always, if for no
one else: he walks with Beatrice in Paradise, not in the "other place;" and his delight in
the mere rapture of existence is such that he hardly cares to speak for joy, and for the certainty
that not one living creature on earth would understand him if he did. For even if he recognised
another elf or troll, peeping out of the eyes of a friend, it would not be his own familiar
spirit, and, in consequence, he would not understand the other, because no two of these fantastic
creatures ever speak entirely alike. But if we mention those who have to exist with the owner
of this fantastic Will-o'-the-wisp--for he is as often absent as present--this makes the whole
thing a matter of speculation. I feel as if I could not do justice to the idea, for I, too,
have lived once on a time with these others; and I would rather not repeat the experiment.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Joseph Hatton declares it to be the choicest gift of all.]

Punch's illustration of Lord Beaconsfield's announcement that he was "on the side of the angels"
casts somewhat of a shadow over the sentiment; yet I feel constrained to quote it, as representing
my own feelings in regard to the question whether the artistic temperament is a curse or a
blessing. Shakespeare had it; Dickens had it; and Thackeray confessed that he would have been
glad to black Shakespeare's boots. One may well be convinced that it is a blessing by the penalties
which Heaven exacts from its possessors. It means the capacity to enjoy and appreciate the
beautiful; with the great poets and novelists it means the power to express the beautiful and
describe it "in thoughts that breathe and words that burn." On the other hand, it means experiencing
a keener sense of pain than those are capable of who do not possess tender susceptibilities.
But in the spirit of "better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathy" the miseries that
belong to the poetic temperament are better than the pleasures that go with its opposite. To
feel the full glory of the sun, the joy of the Western wind, to hear the aphonous whisperings
of the flowers, to be fancifully cognisant of "the music of the spheres"; better this with
only a garret for your environment, than to be a wealthy Peter Bell in a palace, or a lord
of many acres who sees nothing beyond its intrinsic value in a Turner, and finds Shelley poor
stuff and Tennyson only a rhymster. It is the artistic temperament that lives up to the glories
of Nature, and understands the parables; and you need not be a writing poet to have it. There
is many a poet who never wrote a line, many a romancist who never contributed to a magazine.
The ploughboy whistling behind his team, the gardener lovingly pruning his vines, the angler
sitting in the shade of summer trees, even the playgoer craning his neck over the gallery and
failing to catch the last words of Hamlet on the stage, may be blessed with something of "the
divine afflatus," to be born utterly without which is to require at the Maker's hands a compensation.
Thus He gives in a lower form the trick of money-making, the rank of birthright, the cheap
distinction of a high place in society; with poverty He joins the peace of humble content,
a solid faith in the bliss of a future state, and the rough enjoyment of perfect health. But
the poetic temperament is the choicest gift of all; it may have occasional glimpses of the
bottomless pit, but it can make its own heaven, and paint its own rainbow upon "the storms
of life."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Angelina wants to concentrate genius.]

The artistic temperament implies genius--and "there's the rub," for we others don't understand
genius. The Almighty bestowed the blessing; we have superadded the curse of an ignorant reception.
The Genius is the child of his century. We persist in relegating him to his family. He asks
for materials and room to create. We answer him, "Go to--thou art idle. Put money in thy purse."
We bind him with cords of conventionality, and deliver him into the hands of the Philistines.
We declare him to be a rational animal who could pay his bills if he chose--and we County Court
him if he does not. We build and maintain stately edifices for the accommodation of paupers,
criminals, and idiots; but for the Genius there is not even the smallest parish allowance made
to his relatives to pay for a keeper. How can he expand under present conditions? "Es bildet
ein Talent sich in der stille," says Goethe, and I think you will admit that there is precious
little of "der stille" to be found either in ordinary domestic life, or that refuge of the
desperate, a garret in Bloomsbury. Picture to yourself Orpheus executing frenzied violin obbligati
to the family baby (teething)--or Apollo hastily descending the slopes of Olympus to argue
with a tax collector, or irate landlady! Alas! few survive this sort of thing. What I would
propose is a Grand National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Genius--including a National
Asylum for its reception and maintenance. Geniuses would be fed and clothed, and have their
hair cut by the State, who would adopt and cherish them during life, and bequeath them to posterity
at death. In this blissful retreat they would be preserved from the chilling influences of
the outer world, liberally supplied with foolscap, musical instruments, and padded cells, and
protected from all that had hitherto oppressed them--including cats, organ-grinders, creditors,
and matrimony. Worshippers of the opposite sex would be allowed to express their appreciation
sensibly, by contributions to the box at the door. Just think of the enormous advantage which
would be gained by thus concentrating our Genius as we do our other illuminating forces; the
saving of brain power by avoiding outside friction. Why there need be absolutely no waste!
Genius could be "laid on," at a fixed rate, and "lions" supplied by annual subscription.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Florence Marryat believes it to be a blessing.]

Surely--without a manner of doubt--a Blessing--the greatest blessing ever bestowed by Heaven
on Man--the best panacea for the troubles of this life--the magic wand that, for the time being,
opens the door of a Paradise of our own creation. And in order to procure this enjoyment, it
is not necessary that the artist should be successful. Disappointment may be the issue of his
attempt, but the attempt itself--the knowledge that he can attempt--is so delightful. The work
may never reach the artistic ideal--it seldom does--but no artist believes in failure, whilst
the child of his brain is germinating. It looks so promising--it grows so fast--the ideas which
are to render it immortal press so quickly one upon the other, that he has hardly time to grasp
them--whilst his breast heaves and his eye sparkles, and his whole frame quivers with the sense
of power to conceive and to bring to the birth. No fear enters his mind then that his offspring
will prove to be stunted, deformed, or weakly. It is his own--no man has begot it before him--and
he can take no interest in anything else, until it is completed. Is this not true of the Painter,
as he stands with his charcoal in hand thinking out his picture for next year's Academy?--of
the Composer, seated before his piano and running his fingers with apparent want of design
over the keys?--of the Author, as he walks to and fro and plans the details of his new plot?--of
the Poet, as he gazes up into the skies and hears the rhythm of his lines in the "music of
the stars?" True, that the finely-organised and sensitive temperament of the Artist suffers
keenly when jarred by the discord of the world--that it amounts almost to a curse to be interrupted
when in the throes of a new conception (just thought of and hardly grasped) by someone who
has no more notion of what he is undergoing than a deal table would have, and pulls him back
roughly from his Paradise to the sordid details of Life, putting all his airy fancies to flight,
perhaps, by the process. But neither this materialistic world, nor all the fools that inhabit
it, can ever really rob the Artist of the joy--in which "no stranger intermeddleth"--of the
Realm of fancy which is his own domain, inherited by right of his genius. Though he may pass
through Life unappreciated and unsuccessful, let him still thank God for the Divine power which
has been given him--the power to create! It will tide him over the loss of things, which other
men cut their throats for--it will stand him in stead of wife and child--in stead of friends
and companionship.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: And that the true artist is never alone.]

Is the true Artist ever alone? Do not the creatures of his brain walk beside him wherever he
may go? Do they not lie down with him and rise up with him, and even when he is old and grey,
his heart still keeps fresh, from association with the Young and Beautiful, with the blossoms
of Womanhood and of Spring, that have bloomed upon his canvas--with the notes of the birds
and the sounds of falling water that his fingers have conjured to life upon his instrument--with
the fair maidens and noble youths that he has accompanied through so many trials and conducted
to such a blissful termination in his pages. And beyond all this--beyond the joy of conception
and the pride of fruition--there is an added blessing on the artistic temperament. Surely the
minds which are always striving after the ideally Perfect must be, in a measure, refined and
purified by the height of the summit they try to reach. "We needs must love the highest, when
we see it." It is a Blessing to have the desire to reach the highest, even though we fail,
and our natures are raised by the mere contemplation of it. So that the Artist may well forget
the rebuffs and cold douches which he receives from those who cannot sympathise with him, and
thank Heaven that he can walk out of their world into his own.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES:

[1] i.e., Gambled at Faro.

[2] See the writer's Life of David Gray.

[3] I have given a detailed account of Peacock in my "Look Round Literature."

[4] O those "Tendencies of one's Time"! O those dismal Phantoms, conjured up by the blatant
Book-taster and the Indolent Reviewer! How many a poor Soul, that would fain have been honest,
have they bewildered into the Slough of Despond and the Bog of Beautiful Ideas!--R.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

