THE FORTUNES OF OLIVER HORN

by F. Hopkinson Smith

I DEDICATE THIS BOOK TO THE MEMORY OF

"THE MAN OF ALL OTHERS ABOUT KENNEDY SQUARE MOST BELOVED, AND THE MAN OF ALL OTHERS LEAST UNDERSTOOD--RICHARD
HORN, THE DISTINGUISHED INVENTOR."

Half-way down this stretch of sunshine--and what a lovely stretch it was--there had stood for
years a venerable mansion with high chimneys, sloping roof, and quaint dormer-windows, shaded
by a tall sycamore  that spread its branches far across the street. Two white marble steps
guarded by old-fashioned iron railings led up to the front door, which bore on its face a silver-plated
knocker, inscribed in letters of black with the name Of its owner--"Richard Horn." All three,
the door, the white marble steps, and the silver-plated knocker--not to forget the round silver
knobs ornamenting the newel posts of the railings-- were kept as bright as the rest of the
family plate by that most loyal of servants, old Malachi, who daily soused the steps with soap
and water, and then brought to a phenomenal polish the knocker, bell-pull, and knobs by means
of fuller's-earth, turpentine, hard breathing, and the vigorous use of a buckskin rag.

If this weazened-faced, bald-headed old darky, resplendent  in white shirt-sleeves, green baize
apron, and never-ceasing smile of welcome, happened to be engaged  in this cleansing and polishing
process--and it occurred every morning--and saw any friend of his master approaching, he would
begin removing his pail and brushes and throwing wide the white door before the visitor reached
the house, would there await his coming, bent double in profound salutation. Indeed, whenever
Malachi had charge of the front steps he seldom stood upright, so constantly was he occupied--
by reason of his master's large acquaintance--in either crooking his back in the beginning
of a bow, or straightening it up in the ending of one.

To one and all inquiries for Mr. Horn his answer during the morning hours was invariably the same:

"Yes, sah, Marse Richard's in his li'l room wrastlin' wid his machine, I reckon. He's in dar
now, sah--" this with another low bow, and then slowly recovering  his perpendicular with eyes
fixed on the retreating  figure, so as to be sure there was no further need of his services,
he would resume his work, drenching the steps again with soap-suds or rubbing away on the door-plate
or door-pull, stopping every other moment to blow his breath on the polished surface.

When, however, someone asked for young Oliver, the inventor's only son, the reply was by no
means so definite, although the smile was a trifle broader and the bow, if anything, a little
more profound.

"Marse Oliver, did you say, sah? Dat's a difficult question, sah. Fo' Gawd I ain't seen him
since breakfas'.  You might look into Jedge Ellicott's office if you is gwine downtown, whar
dey do say he's studyin' law, an' if he ain't dar--an' I reckon he ain't--den you might drap
in on Mister Crocker, whar Marse Oliver's paintin' dem pictures; an' if he ain't dar, den fo-sho
he's wid some o' do young ladies, but which one de Lawd only knows. Marse Oliver's like the
rabbit, sah--he don't leab no tracks," and Malachi would hold his sides in a chuckle of so
suffocating a nature that it would have developed into apoplexy in a less wrinkled and emaciated
person.

Inside of the front door of this venerable mansion ran a wide hall bare of everything but a
solid mahogany  hat-rack and table with glass mirror and heavy haircloth settee, over which,
suspended from the ceiling,  hung a curious eight-sided lantern, its wick replaced  with a
modern gas-burner. Above were the bedrooms, reached by a curved staircase guarded by spindling
mahogany bannisters with slender hand-rail --a staircase so pure in style and of so distinguished
an air that only maidens in gowns and slippers should have tripped down its steps, and only
cavaliers in silk stockings and perukes have waited below for their hands.

Level with the bare hall, opened two highly polished  mahogany doors, which led respectively
into the drawing-room and library, their windows draped in red damask and their walls covered
with family portraits.  All about these rooms stood sofas studded with brass nails, big easy-chairs
upholstered in damask, and small tables piled high with magazines and papers. Here and there,
between the windows, towered a bookcase  crammed with well-bound volumes reaching clear to
the ceiling. In the centre of each room was a broad mantel sheltering an open fireplace, and
on cold days --and there were some pretty cold days about Kennedy  Square--two roaring wood-fires
dispensed comfort,  the welcoming blaze of each reflected in the shining  brass fire-irons
and fenders.

Adjoining the library was the dining-room with its well-rubbed mahogany table, straight-backed
chairs, and old sideboard laden with family silver, besides a much-coveted mahogany cellaret
containing some of that very rare Madeira for which the host was famous. Here were more easy-chairs
and more portraits--one of Major Horn, who fell at Yorktown, in cocked hat and epaulets, and
two others in mob-caps and ruffles --both ancient grandmothers of long ago.

The "li'l room ob Marse Richard," to which in the morning Malachi directed all his master's
visitors, was in an old-fashioned one-story out-house, with a sloping  roof, that nestled under
the shade of a big tulip- tree in the back yard--a cool, damp, brick-paved old yard, shut in
between high walls mantled with ivy and Virginia creeper and capped by rows of broken bottles
sunk in mortar. This out-building had once served as servants' quarters, and it still had the
open fireplace and broad hearth before which many a black mammy had toasted the toes of her
pickaninnies, as well as the trap-door in the ceiling leading to the loft where they had slept.
Two windows which peered out from under bushy eyebrows of tangled honeysuckle gave the only
light; a green-painted wooden door, which swung level with the moist bricks, the only entrance.

Perhaps at the first rap he would have been too absorbed to hear you. He would have been bending
over his carpenter-bench--his deep, thoughtful eyes fixed on a drawing spread out before him,
the shavings  pushed back to give him room, a pair of compasses  held between his fingers.
Or he might have been raking the coals of his forge--set up in the same fireplace that had
warmed the toes of the pickaninnies,  his long red calico working-gown, which clung about his
spare body, tucked between his knees to keep it from the blaze. Or he might have been stirring
a pot of glue--a wooden model in his hand-- or hammering away on some bit of hot iron, the
brown paper cap that hid his sparse gray locks pushed down over his broad forehead to protect
it from the heat.

When, however, his ear had caught the tap of your knuckles and he had thrown wide the green
door, what a welcome would have awaited you! How warm the grasp of his fine old hand; how cordial
his greeting.

"Disturb me, my dear sir," he would have said in answer to your apologies, "that's what I was
put in the world for. I love to be disturbed. Please do it every day. Come in! Come in! It's
delightful to get hold of your hand."

If you were his friend, and most men who knew him were, he would have slipped his arm through
your own, and after a brief moment you would have found yourself poring over a detailed plan,
his arm still in yours, while he showed you the outline of some pin, or lever, needed to perfect
the most marvellous of all discoveries of modern times--his new galvanic motor.

If it were your first visit, and he had touched in you some sympathetic chord, he would have
uncovered  a nondescript combination of glass jars, horse-shoe  magnets, and copper wires which
lay in a curious shaped box beneath one of the windows, and in a voice trembling with emotion
as he spoke, he would have explained to you the value of this or that lever, and its necessary
relation to this new invention of his which was so soon to revolutionize the motive power of
the world. Or he would perhaps have talked to you as he did to me, of his theories and beliefs
and of what he felt sure the future would bring forth.

"The days of steam-power are already numbered. I may not live to see it, but you will. This
new force is almost within my grasp. I know people laugh, but so they have always done. All
inventors who have benefited mankind have first been received with ridicule.  I can expect
no better treatment. But I have no fear of the result. The steady destruction of our forests
and the eating up of our coal-fields must throw us back on chemistry for our working power.
There is only one solution of this problem--it lies in the employment of a force which this
machine will compel  to our uses. I have not perfected the apparatus yet, as you see, but it
is only a question of time. To- morrow, perhaps, or next week, or next year--but it will surely
come. See what Charles Bright and this Mr. Cyrus Field are accomplishing. If it astonishes
you to realize that we will soon talk to each other across the ocean, why should the supplanting
of steam by a new energy seem so extraordinary? The problems  which they have worked out along
the lines of electricity, I am trying to work out along the lines of galvanism. Both will ultimately
benefit the human race.

And while he talked you would have listened with your eyes and ears wide open, and your heart
too, and believed every word he said, no matter how practical you might have been or how unwilling
at first to be convinced.

On another day perhaps you might have chanced to knock at his door when some serious complication
had vexed him--a day when the cogs and pulleys upon which he had depended for certain demonstration
had become so tangled up in his busy brain that he had thoughts for nothing else. Then, had
he pushed pack his green door to receive you, his greeting  might have been as cordial and
his welcome as hearty, but before long you would have found his eyes gazing into vacancy, or
he would have stopped half-way in an answer to your question, his thoughts far away. Had you
loved him you would then have closed the green door behind you and left him alone. Had you
remained you would, perhaps, have seen him spring from his seat and pick up from his work-bench
some unfinished fragment. This he would have plunged into the smouldering embers of his forge
and, entirely forgetful of your presence, would have seized the handle of the bellows, his
eyes intent on the blaze, his lips muttering broken sentences. At these moments, as he would
peer into the curling smoke, one thin hand upraised, the long calico gown wrinkling  about
his spare body, the paper cap on his head, he would have looked like some alchemist of old,
or weird necromancer weaving a mystic spell. Sometimes,  as you watched his face, with the
glow of the coals lighting up his earnest eyes, there would have flashed across his troubled
features, as heat lightning illumines a cloud, some sudden brightness from within  followed
by a quick smile of triumph. The rebellious  fragment had been mastered. For the hundredth
time the great motor was a success!

And yet, had this very pin or crank or cog, on which he had set such store, refused the next
hour or day or week to do its work, no trace of his  disappointment would have been found in
his face or speech. His faith was always supreme; his belief in his ideals unshaken. If the
pin or crank would not answer, the lever or pulley would. It was the "adjustment" that was
at fault, not the principle. And so the dear old man would work on, week after week, only to
abandon his results again, and with equal cheerfulness and enthusiasm to begin upon another
appliance totally unlike any other he had tried before. "It was only a mile-stone," he would
say; "every one that I pass brings me so much nearer the end."

If you had been only a stranger--some savant, for instance, who wanted a problem in mechanics
solved, or a professor, blinded by the dazzling light of the almost daily discoveries of the
time, in search of mental ammunition to fire back at curious students daily bombarding you
with puzzling questions; or had you been a thrifty capitalist, holding back a first payment
until an expert like Richard Horn had passed upon the merits of some new labor-saving device
of the day; had you been any one of these, and you might very easily have been, for such persons
came almost daily to see him, the inventor would not only have listened to your wants, no matter
how absorbed  he might have been in his own work, but he would not have allowed you to leave
him until he was sure that your mind was at rest.

Had you, however, been neither friend nor client, but some unbeliever fresh from the gossip
of the Club, where many of the habitues not only laughed at the inventor's predictions for
the future, but often lost their tempers in discussing his revolutionary ideas; or had you,
in a spirit of temerity, entered his room armed with arguments for his overthrow, nothing that
your good-breeding or the lack of it would have permitted  you to have said could have ruffled
his gentle spirit. With the tact of a man of wide experience among men, he would have turned
the talk into another  channel--music, perhaps, or some topic of the day--and all with such
exquisite grace that you would have forgotten the subject you came to discuss until you found
yourself outside the yard and half- way across Kennedy Square before realizing that the inventor
had made no reply to your attacks.

But whoever you might have been, whether the friend of years, the anxious client, or the trifling
unbeliever, and whatever the purpose of your visit, whether to shake his hand again for the
very delight of touching it, to seek advice, or to combat his theories, you would have carried
away the impression of a man whose like you had never met before--a man who spoke in a low,
gentle voice, and yet, with an authority  that compelled attention; enthusiastic over the things
he loved, silent over those that pained him; a scholar of wide learning, yet skilled in the
use of tools that obeyed him as readily as nimble fingers do a hand; a philosopher eminently
sane on most of the accepted theories of the day and yet equally insistent in his support of
many of the supposed sophistries and so-called "fanaticisms of the hour"; an old-time aristocrat
holding fast to the class distinctions of his ancestors  and yet glorying in the dignity of
personal labor; a patriot loyal to the traditions of his State and yet so opposed to the bondage
of men and women that he had freed his own slaves the day his father's will was read; a cavalier
reverencing a woman as sweetheart, wife, and mother, and yet longing for the time to come when
she, too, could make a career, then denied her, coequal in its dignity with that of the man
beside her.

A composite personality of strange contradictions; of pronounced accomplishments and yet of
equally pronounced failures. And yet, withal, a man so gracious  in speech, so courtly in bearing,
so helpful in counsel, so rational, human, and lovable, that agree with him or not, as you
pleased, his vision would have lingered with you for days.

When night came the inventor would rake the coals from the forge, and laying aside his paper
cap and calico gown, close the green door of his shop, cross the brick pavement of the back
yard, and ascend the stairs with the spindling bannisters to his dressing room. Here Malachi
would have laid out the black swallow-tail coat with the high velvet collar, trousers  to match,
double-breasted waistcoat with gilt buttons,  and fluffy cravat of white silk.

Then, while his master was dressing, the old servant  would slip down-stairs and begin arranging
the several rooms for the evening's guests--for there were always guests at night. The red
damask curtains would be drawn close, the hearth swept clean, and fresh logs thrown on the
andirons. The lamp in the library would be lighted, and his master's great easy- chair wheeled
close to a low table piled high with papers and magazines, his big-eyed reading-glasses within
reach of his hand. The paper would be unfolded,  aired at the snapping blaze, and hung over
the arm of the chair. These duties attended to, the old servant, with a last satisfied glance
about the room, would betake himself to the foot of the stair- case, there to await his master's
coming, glancing overhead at every sound, and ready to conduct him to his chair by the fire.

When Richard, his toilet completed, appeared at the top of the stairs, Malachi would stand
until his master had reached the bottom step, wheel about, and, with head up, gravely and noiselessly
precede him into the drawing-room--the only time he ever dared to walk before him--and with
a wave of the hand and the air of a prince presenting one of his palaces, would say--"Yo' char's
all ready, Marse Richard; bright fire burnin'." Adding, with a low, sweeping bow, now that
the ceremony was over-- "Hope yo're feelin' fine dis evenin', sah."

He had said it hundreds of times in the course of the year, but always with a salutation that
was a special tribute, and always with the same low bow, as he gravely pulled out the chair,
puffing up the back cushion, his wrinkled hands resting on it until Richard had taken his seat.
Then, with equal gravity,  he would hand his master the evening paper and the big-bowed spectacles,
and would stand gravely by until Richard had dismissed him with a gentle "Thank you, Malachi;
that will do." And Malachi, with the serene, uplifted face as of one who had served in a temple,
would tiptoe out to his pantry.

It had gone on for years--this waiting for Richard  at the foot of the staircase. Malachi had
never missed a night when his master was at home. It was not his duty--not a part of the established
regime of the old house. No other family servant about Kennedy  Square performed a like service
for master or mistress. It was not even a custom of the times.

It was only one of "Malachi's ways," Richard would say, with a gentle smile quivering about
his lips.

"I do dat 'cause it's Marse Richard--dat's all," Malachi would answer, drawing himself up with
the dignity of a chamberlain serving a king, when someone  had the audacity to question him--a
liberty he always resented.

They had been boys together--these two. They had fished and hunted and robbed birds' nests
and gone swimming with each other. They had fought for each other, and been whipped for each
other many and many a time in the old plantation-days. Night after night in the years that
followed they had sat by each other when one or the other was ill.

And now that each was an old man the mutual service  was still continued.

"How are you getting on now, Malachi--better? Ah, that's good--" and the master's thin white
hand would be laid on the black wrinkled head with a soothing touch.

"Allus feels better, Marse Richard, when I kin git hold ob yo' han', sah--" Malachi would answer.

