The Fall of Manna. We are further told, that "when the sun waxed hot it melted;" and when preserved
until the following day it became corrupt, and "bred worms." To preserve the extra measure
which they collected on the sixth day, Moses directed that on that day of the week they were
"to bake and seethe" what should be required on the morrow, as on the sabbath none should fall.
Such are the curious and interesting particulars supplied by the Sacred Text. It is well known
that a substance is used in medicine under this name, chiefly obtained from the Calabrias,
and is collected from the leaves of the ornus rotundifolia, (fruxinas ornus, of Linnaeus,)
and a somewhat similar substance obtains in the onion; but from its purgative qualities, it
is sufficiently obvious that the manna of the Scriptures is altogether different. According
to Seetzen, Wortley Montague, Burckhardt, and other travellers, a natural production exudes
from the spines of a species of tamarix, in the peninsula of Sinai. It condenses before sunrise,
but dissolves in the sun-beam. "Its taste," it is added, "is agreeable, somewhat aromatic,
and as sweet as honey. It may be kept for a year, and is only found after a wet season." The
Arabs collect it and use it with their bread. In the vicinity of Mount Sinai, where it is most
plentiful, the quantity collected in the most favourable season does not exceed six hundredweight.
The author of the "History of the Jews" has a note to the following effect: "The author, by
the kindness of a traveller, recently returned from Egypt, has received a small quantity of
manna; it was, however, though still palatable, in a liquid state, from the heat of the sun.
He has obtained the additional curious fact, that manna, if not boiled or baked, will not keep
more than a day, but becomes putrid and breeds maggots. It is described as a small round substance,
and is brought in by the Arabs in small quantities mixed with sand." It would appear from these
very interesting facts, that this exudation, which transpires from the thorns or leaves of
the tamarix, is altogether different from the manna of the manna-ash. We cannot doubt, from
the entire coincidence in every respect, that the manna found in the wilderness of Sinai by
the Arabs now, is identical with that of the Scriptures. That the minute particulars recorded
should be every whit verified by modern research and discovery, is worthy of great attention.
The miracle, however, remains precisely as it was. There is sufficient to appeal to, as an
existing and perpetual memorial to all generations. The MIRACLE, from which there can be no
appeal, and which allows of no equivocation, consisted in its ample abundance, in its continued
supply, and its complete intermission on the sacred day of rest. Nutritious substances have
fallen from the atmosphere in some countries; such, for example, was that which fell a few
years ago in Persia, and was examined by Thenard. It proved to be a nutritious substance referable
to a vegetable origin. We have before us, at the moment of writing these pages, a small work,
printed at Naples in 1793, the author of which is Gaetano Maria La Pira; it is entitled, "Memoria
sulla pioggia della Manna," &c.: and describes a shower of manna which fell in Sicily, in the
month of September, 1792. The author, a professor of chemistry, at Naples, gives an interesting
account of the circumstances under which it was found, together with a variety of interesting
particulars, some of which we shall select, and we do so to prove that a similar substance
may have an aerial origin, though carried up in the first instance, it may be, by the process
of evaporation;--this would considerably modify the product. On the 26th September, 1792, a
fall of manna took place at a district in Sicily, called Fiume grande; this singular shower
lasted, it is stated, for about an hour and a half. It commenced at twenty-two o'clock, according
to Italian time, or about five o'clock in the afternoon: the space covered with this manna
seems to have been considerable. A second shower covered a space of thirty-eight paces in length,
by fourteen in breadth. This second shower of manna, which took place on the following day,
was not confined to the Fiume grande, but seems to have fallen in still greater abundance in
another place, called Santa Barbara, at a considerable distance: it covered a space of two
hundred and fifty paces in length, by fourteen paces in breadth. An individual, named Guiseppe
Giarrusso, informed Sig. G.M. La Pira, that about half-past eight o'clock, A.M., he witnessed
this shower of manna, and described it as composed of extremely minute drops, which, as soon
as they fell, congealed into a white concrete substance; and the quantity was such, that the
whole surface of the ground was covered, and presented the appearance of snow: the depth, in
all cases, seems to have been inconsiderable. This aerial manna was somewhat purgative, when
administered internally; and the chemical analysis of it seemed to prove, that its constituents,
though somewhat different from that obtained from the ornus rotundifolia,[6] did not materially
differ from the latter in its constituents. Sig. La Pira describes it of a white colour, and
somewhat granular or spherical; it seems to have had some resemblance, externally, to that
of the Scriptures; but it is not stated that it became corrupt on being preserved.

Water from the Rock.

At the rock, in Horeb, called Meribah, Moses miraculously supplied the people with water. He
smote the rock, and an abundant stream immediately issued: this extraordinary source of supply
is now dried up, but there is still left sufficient evidence to confirm the fact. It will suffice
for our purpose that we quote, in corroboration, the description of an eye-witness and recent
traveller: "We came to the celebrated rock of Meribah. It still bears striking evidence of
the miracle about it; and it is quite isolated in the midst of a narrow valley, which is here
about two hundred yards broad. There are four or five fissures, one above the other, on the
face of the rock, each of them about a foot and a half long, and a few inches deep. What is
remarkable, they run along the breadth of the rock, and are not rent downwards; they are more
than a foot asunder, and there is a channel worn between them by the gushing of the water.
The Arabs still reverence this rock." Dr. Clarke only spoke the truth when he asserted that
the BIBLE was the best itinerary that the traveller in Palestine could possess.

"Weighing in the Balance."

The sentence of the ALMIGHTY, emblazoned on the walls of the palace of Babylon, which registered
the fate of Belshazzar, was deciphered by the skill of Daniel. The author gives an interesting
illustration of the allusion. Here, it will be perceived, is the balance in which the actions
of the individual have been weighed; and we have only further to remark, that the former Mogul
kings were, on their ascending the throne, literally weighed. Thevenot gives an account of
this curious affair in his time. The balance wherein this seems to have been performed, is
described as being rich. The chains of suspension were of gold, and the two scales, studded
with precious stones, also of gold, as well as the beam, &c. The king, richly attired and shining
with jewels, goes into one of the scales of the balance, and sits on his heels. Into the other
are put little bales, said to be full of gold, silver, and jewels, or of other costly materials.
These little bales are described to be often changed.

We have marked many more extracts than we can insert, and find that we must content ourselves,
and we hope the author, with again directing attention to his very interesting production.

    [5] II. xi. v. 28.

    [6] Also the oak, ilex, chestnut, &c. though less abundant and
        more rare than on the leaves of the manna-ash. The ordinary
        manna collected in Sicily, comes from districts in the Val
        Demone and the Val di Mazzara, at some distance from the
        localities where this aerial manna fell.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

PICTURE OF VENICE.

(From Contarini Fleming, a Psychological Autobiography.)

An hour before sunset, I arrived at Fusina, and beheld, four or five miles out at sea, the
towers and cupolas of Venice suffused with a rich golden light, and rising out of the bright
blue waters. Not an exclamation escaped me. I felt like a man, who has achieved a great object.
I was full of calm exultation, but the strange incident of the morning made me serious and pensive.

As our gondolas glided over the great Lagune, the excitement of the spectacle reanimated me.
The buildings, that I had so fondly studied in books and pictures, rose up before me. I knew
them all; I required no Cicerone. Here my gondola quitted the Lagune, and, turning up a small
canal, and passing under a bridge which connected the quays, stopped at the steps of a palace.

I ascended a staircase of marble, I passed through a gallery crowded with statues, I was ushered
into spacious apartments, the floors of which were marble, and the hangings satin. The ceilings
were painted by Tintoretto and his scholars, and were full of Turkish trophies and triumphs
over the Ottomite. The furniture was of the same rich material as the hangings, and the gilding,
although of two hundred years' duration, as bright and burnished, as the costly equipment of
a modern palace. From my balcony of blinds, I looked upon the great Lagune. It was one of those
glorious sunsets which render Venice, in spite of her degradation, still famous. The sky and
sea vied in the brilliant multiplicity of their blended tints. The tall shadows of her Palladian
churches flung themselves over the glowing and transparent wave out of which they sprang. The
quays were crowded with joyous groups, and the black gondolas flitted, like sea serpents, over
the red and rippling waters.

I hastened to the Place of St. Mark. It was crowded and illuminated. Three gorgeous flags waved
on the mighty staffs, which are opposite the church in all the old drawings, and which once
bore the standards of Candia and Cyprus, and the Morea. The coffee-houses were full, and gay
parties, seated on chairs in the open air, listened to the music of military bands, while they
refreshed themselves with confectionary so rich and fanciful, that it excites the admiration,
and the wonder of all travellers, but which I have since discovered in Turkey to be Oriental.
The variety of costume was also great. The dress of the lower orders in Venice is still unchanged:
many of the middle classes yet wear the cap and cloak. The Hungarian and the German military,
and the bearded Jew, with his black velvet cap and flowing robes, are observed with curiosity.
A few days also before my arrival, the Austrian squadron had carried into Venice a Turkish
ship and two Greek vessels which had violated the neutrality. Their crews now mingled with
the crowd. I beheld, for the first time, the haughty and turbaned Ottoman, sitting cross-legged
on his carpet under a colonnade, sipping his coffee and smoking a long chiboque, and the Greeks,
with their small red caps, their high foreheads, and arched eyebrows.

Can this be modern Venice, I thought? Can this be the silent, and gloomy, and decaying city,
over whose dishonourable misery I have so often wept? Could it ever have been more enchanting?
Are not these indeed still subjects of a Doge, and still the bridegroom of the ocean? Alas!
the brilliant scene was as unusual as unexpected, and was accounted for by its being the feast
day of a favourite saint. Nevertheless, I rejoiced at the unaccustomed appearance of the city
at my entrance, and still I recall with pleasure the delusive moments, when strolling about
the place of St. Mark the first evening that I was in Venice, I for a moment mingled in a scene
that reminded me of her lost light-heartedness, and of that unrivalled gaiety that so long
captivated polished Europe.

       *       *       *       *       *

SWISS LEGEND OF WILLIAM TELL.

The famous episode of William Tell, was momentous to the main plot of the emancipation of Switzerland
in its issue. This man, who was one of the sworn at Rutli, and noted for his high and daring
spirit, exposed himself to arrest by Gessler's myrmidons, for passing the hut without making
obeisance. Whispers of conspiracy had already reached the vogt, and he expected to extract
some farther evidence from Tell on the subject. Offended by the man's obstinate silence, he
gave loose to his tyrannical humour, and knowing that Tell was a good archer, commanded him
to shoot from a great distance at an apple on the head of his child. God, says an old chronicler,
was with him; and the vogt, who had not expected such a specimen of skill and fortune, now
cast about for new ways to entrap the object of his malice; and, seeing a second arrow in his
quiver, asked him what that was for? Tell replied, evasively, that such was the usual practice
of archers. Not content with this reply, the vogt pressed him on farther, and assured him of
his life, whatever the arrow might have been meant for. "Vogt," said Tell, "had I shot my child,
the second shaft was for THEE; and be sure I should not have missed my mark a second time!"
Transported with rage not unmixed with terror, Gessler exclaimed, "Tell! I have promised thee
life, but thou shalt pass it in a dungeon." Accordingly, he took boat with his captive, intending
to transport him across the lake to Kussnacht in Schwytz, in defiance of the common right of
the district, which provided that its natives should not be kept in confinement beyond its
borders. A sudden storm on the lake overtook the party; and Gessler was obliged to give orders
to loose Tell from his fetters, and commit the helm to his hands, as he was known for a skilful
steersman. Tell guided the vessel to the foot of the great Axenberg, where a ledge of rock
distinguished to the present day as Tell's platform, presented itself as the only possible
landing-place for leagues around. Here he seized his cross-bow, and escaped by a daring leap,
leaving the skiff to wrestle its way in the billows. The vogt also escaped the storm, but only
to meet a fate more signal from Tell's bow in the narrow pass near Kussnacht. The tidings of
his death enhanced the courage of the people, but also alarmed the vigilance of their rulers,
and greatly increased the dangers of the conspirators, who kept quiet. These occurrences marked
the close of 1307.--Cabinet Cyclopaedia. History of Switzerland.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREAT PLAGUE IN THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY.

The early triumphs of Swiss valour were saddened by the breaking out of that great plague,
which visited with its ravages the greater part of Europe and Asia, and of which the most vivid
delineation ever written (except that of a similar pest by Thucydides) has been preserved in
the Decameron of Boccacio. Whole towns were depopulated. Estates were left without claimants
or occupiers. Priests, physicians, grave-diggers, could not be found in adequate numbers; and
the consecrated earth of the churchyards no longer sufficed for the reception of its destined
tenants. In the order of Franciscans alone, 120,430 monks are said to have perished. This plague
had been preceded by tremendous earthquakes, which laid in ruins towns, castles, and villages.
Dearth and famine, clouds of locusts, and even an innocent comet, had been long before regarded
as fore-runners of the pestilence; and when it came it was viewed as an unequivocal sign of
the wrath of God. At the outset, the Jews became, as usual, objects of umbrage, as having occasioned
this calamity by poisoning the wells. A persecution was commenced against them, and numberless
innocent persons were consigned, by heated fanaticism, to a dreadful death by fire, and their
children were baptized over the corpses of their parents, according to the religion of their
murderers. These atrocities were in all probability perpetrated by many, in order to possess
themselves of the wealth acquired by the Jews in traffic, to take revenge for their usurious
extortions, or, finally, to pay their debts in the most expeditious and easy manner. When it
was found that the plague was nowise diminished by massacring the Jews, but, on the contrary,
seemed to acquire additional virulence, it was inferred that God, in his righteous wrath, intended
nothing less than to extirpate the whole sinful race of man. Many now endeavoured by self-chastisement
to avert the divine vengeance from themselves. Fraternities of hundreds and thousands collected
under the name of Flagellants, strolled through the land in strange garbs, scourged themselves
in the public streets, in penance for the sins of the world, and read a letter which was said
to have fallen from heaven, admonishing all to repentance and amendment. They were joined of
course, by a crowd of idle vagabonds, who, under the mask of extraordinary sanctity and humble
penitence, indulged in every species of disorder and debauchery. At last the affair assumed
so grave an aspect, that the pope and many secular princes declared themselves against the
Flagellants, and speedily put an end to their extravagancies. Various ways were still, however,
resorted to by various tempers to snatch the full enjoyment of that life which they were so
soon to lose, at the expense of every possible violation of the laws of morality. Only a few
lived on in a quiet and orderly manner, in reliance on the saving help of God, without running
into any excess of anxiety or indulgence. After this desolating scourge had raged during four
years, its violence seemed at length to be exhausted.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

WATERING PLACES IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY.

