 Aubrey's settlement was out of lands at
Yatton, as also was the little income bequeathed to Kate by her father. Could anything be conceived
more dreadful, under these circumstances, than the mere danger--the slightest probability--of
their being deprived of Yatton?--and with a debt of at the very least SIXTY THOUSAND POUNDS,
due to him who had been wrongfully kept out of his property? That was the millstone which seemed
to drag them all to the bottom. Against that, what could the kindness of the most generous
friends, what could his own most desperate exertions, avail? All this had poor Aubrey constantly
before his eyes, together with--his wife, his children, his sister. What was to become of them?
It was long before the real nature and extent of his danger became known among his friends
and neighbors. When, however, they were made aware of it, an extraordinary interest and sympathy
were excited throughout almost the whole county. Whenever his attorney, Mr. Parkinson, appeared
in public, he was besieged by most anxious inquiries concerning his distinguished client, whose
manly modesty and fortitude, under the pressure of his sudden and almost unprecedented difficulty
and peril, endeared him more than ever to all who had an opportunity of appreciating his position.
With what intense and absorbing interest were the ensuing assizes looked for!---- At length
they arrived.

The ancient city of York exhibited, on the commission day of the spring assizes for the year
18--, the usual scene of animation and excitement. The High Sheriff, attended by an imposing
retinue, went out to meet the judges, and escorted them, amid the shrill clangor of trumpets,
to the Castle, where the commission was opened with the usual formalities. The judges were
Lord Widdrington, the Lord Chief-Justice of the King's Bench, and Mr. Justice Grayley, a puisne
judge of the same court--both admirable lawyers. The former was possessed of the more powerful
intellect. He was what may be called a great scientific lawyer, referring everything to principle,
as extracted from precedent. Mr. Justice Grayley was almost unrivalled in his knowledge of
the details of the law; his governing maxim being ita lex scripta. Here his knowledge was equally
minute and accurate, and most readily applied to every case brought before him. Never sat there
upon the bench a more painstaking judge--one more anxious to do right equally in great things
as in small. Both were men of rigid integrity: 'tis a glorious thing to be able to challenge
the inquiry--when, for centuries, have other than men of rigid integrity sat upon the English
Bench? Lord Widdrington, however, in temper was stern, arbitrary, and overbearing, and his
manners were disfigured not a little by coarseness; while his companion was a man of exemplary
amiability, affability, and forbearance. Lord Widdrington presided at the Civil Court, (in
which, of course, would come on the important cause in which we are interested,) and Mr. Justice
Grayley in the Criminal Court.

Soon after the sitting of the court, on the ensuing morning--"Will your Lordship allow me,"
rose and inquired the sleek, smiling, and portly Mr. Subtle, dead silence prevailing as soon
as he had mentioned the name of the cause about which he was inquiring, "to mention a cause
of Doe on the demise of Titmouse v. Jolter--a special jury cause, in which there are a great
many witnesses to be examined on both sides--and to ask that a day may be fixed for it to come on?"

"Whom do you appear for, Mr. Subtle?" inquired his Lordship.

"For the plaintiff, my Lord."

"And who appears for the defendant?"

"The Attorney-General leads for the defendant, my Lord," replied Mr. Sterling, who, with Mr.
Crystal, was also retained for the defendant.

"Well, perhaps you can agree between yourselves upon a day, and in the mean time similar arrangements
may be made for any other special jury causes that may require it." After due consultation,
Monday week was agreed upon by the parties, and fixed by his Lordship, for the trial of the
cause.--During the Sunday preceding it, York was crowded with persons of the highest distinction
from all parts of the county, who felt interested in the result of the great cause of the assizes.
About mid-day a dusty travelling carriage and four dashed into the streets from the London
road, and drove up to the principal inn; it contained the Attorney-General (who just finished
reading his brief as he entered York) and his clerk. The Attorney-General was a man of striking
and highly intellectual countenance; but he looked, on alighting, somewhat fatigued with his
long journey. He was a man of extraordinary natural talents, and also a first-rate lawyer--one
whose right to take the woolsack, whenever it should become vacant, was recognized by all the
profession. His professional celebrity, and his coming down "special" on the present occasion,
added to the circumstance of his being well known to be a personal friend of his client, Mr.
Aubrey--whence it might be inferred that his great powers would be exerted to their utmost--was
well calculated to enhance the interest, if that were possible, of the occasion which had brought
him down at so great an expense, and to sustain so heavy a responsibility as the conduct of
a cause of such magnitude as this.

He came to lead against a formidable opponent. Mr. Subtle was the leader of the Northern circuit,
a man of matchless tact and practical sagacity, and consummately skilful in the conduct of
a cause. The only thing he ever looked at, was THE VERDICT; to the gaining of which he directed
all his energies, and sacrificed every other consideration. As for display, he despised it.
A speech, as such, was his aversion. He entered into a friendly, but exquisitely crafty conversation
with the jury; for he was so quick at perceiving the effect of his address on the mind of each
of the twelve, and dexterous in accommodating himself to what he had detected to be the passing
mood of each, that they individually felt as if they were all the while reasoning with, and
being convinced by him. His placid, smiling, handsome countenance, his gentlemanly bearing
and insinuating address, full of good-natured cheerful confidence in his cause, were irresistible.
He flattered, he soothed, he fascinated the jury, producing an impression upon their minds
which they often felt indignant at his opponent's attempting to efface. In fact, as a nisi
prius leader he was unrivalled, as well in stating as in arguing a case, as well in examining
as cross-examining a witness. It required no little practical experience to form an adequate
estimate of Mr. Subtle's skill in the management of a cause; for he did everything with such
a smiling, careless, unconcerned air, equally in the great pinch and strain of a case, as in
the pettiest details, that you would be apt to suspect that none but the easiest and most straightforward
cases fell to his lot!

Titmouse, Titmouse, methinks the fates favored you in assigning to you Mr. Subtle!

Next came Mr. QUICKSILVER, who had received what may be called a muffling retainer. What a
contrast was he to Mr. Subtle! Reckless, rhetorical, eloquent, ready, witty--possessing a vast
extent of general knowledge, but rather slenderly furnished with law--he presented to the jury,
himself--not his client, or his client's case; infinitely more anxious to make a splendid figure
in public, than to secure, by watchful activity, the interests of his clients. Why, then, was
such a man retained in the cause? 'Twas a fancy of Quirk's, a vast political admirer of Quicksilver's,
who had made one or two most splendid speeches for him in libel cases brought against the Sunday
Flash. Gammon most earnestly expostulated, but Quirk was inexorable; and himself carried his
retainer to Mr. Quicksilver. Gammon, however, was somewhat consoled by the reflection, that
this wild elephant would be, in a manner, held in check by Mr. Subtle and Mr. Lynx, who, he
hoped, would prevent any serious mischief from happening. Lynx possessed the qualities which
his name would suggest to you. I have partly described him already. He was a man of minute
accuracy; and "got up" every case in which he was engaged as if his life had depended on the
result. Nothing escaped him. He kept his mind constantly even with the current of the cause.
He was a man to steer a leader, if ever that leader should get, for an instant, on the wrong
tack, or be uncertain as to his course. His suggestion and interference--rare, indeed, with
such a man as Mr. Subtle, incessant with Mr. Quicksilver--were always worth attending to, and
consequently received with deference.

For Mr. Aubrey also was retained a formidable "BAR." Mr. Attorney-General was a man much superior,
in point of intellect and legal knowledge, to Mr. Subtle. His mind was distinguished by its
tranquil power. He had a rare and invaluable faculty of arraying before his mind's eye all
the facts and bearings of the most intricate case, and contemplating them, as it were, not
successively, but simultaneously. His perception was quick as light; and, at the same time--rare,
most rare accompaniment!--his judgment sound, his memory signally retentive. Inferior, possibly,
to Mr. Subtle in rapid and delicate appreciation of momentary advantages, he was sagacious,
where Mr. Subtle was only ingenious. Mr. Attorney-General had as much weight with the judge
as Mr. Subtle with the jury. With the former there was a candor and straightforwardness--a
dignified simplicity--which insensibly won the confidence of the judge; who, on the other hand,
felt himself obliged to be ever on his guard against the slippery sophistries of Mr. Subtle,
whom he thus got to regard with constant suspicion.

Mr. STERLING, the second counsel for the defendant, was a king's counsel, and a rival of Mr.
Subtle upon the circuit. He was a man of great power; and, on important occasions, no man at
the bar could acquit himself with more distinction. As a speaker, he was eloquent and impressive,
perhaps deficient in vivacity; but he was a man of clear and powerful intellect; prompt in
seizing the bearings of a case; a capital lawyer; and possessing, even on the most trying occasions,
imperturbable self-possession.

Mr. CRYSTAL, with some faults of manner and bearing, was an honorable high-minded man; clear-sighted
and strong-headed; an accurate and ready lawyer; vigilant and acute.

See, then, the combatants in this memorable encounter; for Titmouse--Mr. SUBTLE, Mr. QUICKSILVER,
Mr. LYNX; for Mr. Aubrey--Mr. ATTORNEY-GENERAL, Mr. STERLING, Mr. CRYSTAL.

The consultation of each party was long and anxious.

About eight o'clock on the Sunday evening, at Mr. Subtle's lodgings, Messrs. Quirk, Gammon,
and Snap, accompanied by Mr. Mortmain, whom they had brought down to watch the case, made their
appearance shortly after Mr. Quicksilver and Mr. Lynx.

"Our case seems complete, now" said Mr. Subtle, casting a penetrating and most significant
glance at Messrs. Quirk and Gammon, and then at his juniors, to whom, before the arrival of
their clients and Mr. Mortmain, he had been mentioning the essential link which, a month before,
he had pointed out as missing, and the marvellous good fortune by which they had been able
to supply it at the eleventh hour.

