Suddenly, as the train stopped, that platform of a Paris railway station was turned into a
thoroughly English scene. A wave from Great Britain swept over it, a tall and tweedy wave,
bearing with it golf clubs and kitbags and every kind of English flotsam and jetsam. All the
passengers had lately landed from the foreignest of foreign parts, coral strands, and that
sort of remote thing, but they looked as incorruptibly, triumphantly British, every man, woman,
and child of them (except a fringe of black or brown servants), as if they had strolled over
from across Channel for a Saturday to Monday in "gay Paree." One can't help admiring as well
as wondering at that sort of ineradicable, persistent Britishness, can one? I believe it's
partly the secret of Great Britain's success in colonizing. Her people are so calmly sure of
their superiority over all other races that the other races end by believing it, and trying
to imitate their ways, instead of fighting to maintain the right to their own.

That feeling came over me as I, a mere French and American chit, stood aside to let the wave
flow on. Everyone looked so important, and unaware of the existence of foreigners, except porters,
that I was afraid my particular drop of the wave might sail by on the crest, without noticing
me or my red rose. I tried to make myself little, and the rose big, as if it were in the foreground
and I in the perspective, but the procession moved on and nobody who could possibly have been
the Dragon wasted a glance on me.

Toward the tail end, however, I spied two men coming, followed by a small bronze figure in
"native" dress of some sort. One of the two was tall and tanned, and thirty-five or so. The
other--I had a bet with myself that he was my Dragon. But it was like "betting on a certainty,"
which is one of the few things that's dull and dishonest at the same time. Some men are born
dragons, while others only achieve dragonhood, or have it thrust upon them by the gout. This
one was born a dragon, and exactly what I'd imagined him, or even worse, and I was glad that
I could conscientiously hate him in peace.

The other man had the walk so many Englishmen have, as if he were tracking lions across a desert.
I quite admire that gait, for it looks brave and un-self-conscious; but the old thing labelled
"Dragon" marched along as if trampling on prostrate Bengalese. A red-hot Tory, of course--that
went without saying--of the type that thinks Radicals deserve hanging. In his eyes that stony
glare which English people have when they're afraid someone may be wanting to know them; chicken-claws
under his chin, like you see in the necks of elderly bull dogs; a snobbish nose; a bad-tempered
mouth; age anywhere between sixty and a hundred. Altogether one of those men who must write
to the Times or go mad. Dost like the picture?

Both these men, who were walking together, looked at me rather hard; and I attributed the Dragon's
failure to stop at the Sign of the Rose to the silly vanity which forbade his wearing "specs"
like a sensible old gentleman. Accordingly, with laudable presence of mind, I did what seemed
the only thing to do.

I stepped forward, and addressed him with the modest firmness Madame de Maluet's pupils are
taught in "deportment lessons." "I beg your pardon, but aren't you Sir Lionel Pendragon?"

"I am Lionel Pendragon," said the other man--the quite young man.

Mother, you could have knocked me down with the shadow of a moth-eaten feather!

They both took off their travelling caps. The real Dragon's was in decent taste. The Mock Dragon's
displayed an offensive chess-board check.

"Have you come to say--that Miss Lethbridge has been prevented from meeting me?" asked the
real one--the R. D., I'll call him for the moment.

"I am----" It stuck in my throat and wouldn't go up or down, so I compromised--which was weak
of me, as I always think on principle you'd better lie all in all or not at all. "I suppose
you don't recognize me?" I mumbled fluffily.

"What--it's not possible that you're Ellaline Lethbridge!" the R. D. exclaimed, in surprise,
which might mean horror of my person or a compliment.

I gasped like a fish out of water, and wriggled my neck in a silly way, which a charitable
man, unaccustomed to women, might take for schoolgirl gawkishness in a spasm of acquiescence.

Instantly he put out his hand and wrung mine extremely hard. It would have crunched the real
Ellaline's rings into her poor little fingers.

"You must forgive me," he said. "I saw the rose"--and he smiled a wonderfully agreeable, undragonlike
smile, which put him back to thirty-two--"but I was looking out for a very different sort of--er--young
lady."

"Why?" I asked, losing my presence of mind.

"I--well, really, I don't know why," said he.

"And I was looking for a very different sort of man," I retorted, feeling idiotically schoolgirlish,
and sillier every minute.

He smiled again then, even more nicely than before, and followed the example I had set. "Why?"
he inquired.

Unlike him, I did know why only too well. But it was difficult to explain. Still, I had to
say something or make things worse. "When in doubt play a trump, or tell the truth," I quoted
to myself as a precept; and said out aloud that, somehow or other, I'd thought he would be old.

"So I am old," he said, "old enough to be your father." When he added that information, he
looked as if he would have liked to take it back again, and his face coloured up with a dull,
painful red, as if he'd said something attached to a disagreeable memory. That was what his
expression suggested to me; but as I know for a fact that he has not at all a nice, kind character,
I suppose in reality what he felt was only a stupid prick of vanity at having inadvertently
given his age away. I nearly blurted out the truth about mine, which would have got me into
hot water at once, as Ellaline's hardly nineteen and I'm practically twenty-one--worse luck
for you.

By this time the Mock Dragon had walked slowly on, but the brown image in "native" dress had
glued himself to the platform near by, too respectful to be aware of my existence. While I
was debating whether or no the last speech called for an answer, the R. D. had a sudden thought
which gave him an excuse to change the subject.

"Where's your chaperon?" he snapped, with a flash of the eye, which was his first betrayal
of the hidden devil within him.

"She was called away to visit a relative," I answered, promptly; because Ellaline and I had
agreed I was to say that; and in a way it was true.

"You didn't come here alone?" said he.

"I had to," said I.

"Then it's a monstrous thing that Madame de Maluet should have let you," he growled. "I shall
write and tell her so."

"Oh, don't, please don't," I begged, you can guess how anxiously. "She really couldn't help
it, and I shall be so sorry to distress her." He was still glaring, and desperation made me
crafty. "You wouldn't refuse the first thing I've asked you?" I tried to wheedle him.

I hoped--for Ellaline's sake, of course--that I should get another smile; but instead, I got
a frown.

"Now I begin to realize that you are--your mother's daughter," said he, in a queer, hard tone.
"No, I won't refuse the first thing you ask me. But perhaps you'd better not consider that
a precedent."

"I won't," said I. He'd been looking so pleased with me before, as if he'd found me in a prize
package, or won me in a lottery when he'd expected to draw a blank; but though he gave in without
a struggle to my wheedling, he now looked as if he'd discovered that I was stuffed with sawdust.
My quick, "I won't," didn't seem to encourage him a bit.

