With respect to Canada, Lord Melbourne feels that it may be considered somewhat presumptuous
in him to undervalue danger, which is considered by those upon the spot to be so great and
so imminent, but still he cannot feel the alarm which seems to be felt there. Lord Durham,
Lord Melbourne is convinced, exaggerates the peril in order to give greater éclat to his own
departure. The worst symptom which Lord Melbourne perceives is the general fear which seems
to prevail there, and which makes every danger ten times as great as it really is.

    [Footnote 34: The birth of an heir on 16th September 1837
    conferred on Prince Ferdinand the right to the title of King.]

    [Footnote 35: See ante, p. 131. (Ch VII, Footnote 30)]

    [Footnote 36: Lord Duncannon (1781-1847), at this time Lord
    Privy Seal and First Commissioner of Woods and Forests,
    was afterwards (as Earl of Bessborough) Lord-Lieutenant of
    Ireland. He must not be confused with the Lord Dungannon who
    sat in the House of Commons as Mr Hill-Trevor from 1830-1841,
    and, as Viscount Dungannon, was elected in 1843, but
    immediately unseated on petition.]

[Pageheading: BELGIUM AND ENGLAND]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 24th November 1838.

MY DEAR VICTORIA,--Van Praet[37] is bearer of this letter. The present moment being one of
some importance--which may, if imprudently managed, cause great disturbances in the West of
Europe, and exercise a reaction on your own Government--I think it my duty to inform you of
what is going on.

I join a copy of a letter to Lord Palmerston. I should feel obliged to you if you would read
it in the presence of good Lord Melbourne, in whose fairness and sense of justice I must say
I feel great confidence....

I will not complain, only one subject I must touch upon as really very unfair. That your Ministers
should take a line unfavourable to this country may be explained by their political position,
but why should they press so much on the French Government? I really see no cause for it. England
is in an excellent position for a mediator, and for all parties it is highly desirable that
that position should be maintained.[38]

I will not plague with a longer letter. You know from experience that I never ask anything
of you. I prefer remaining in the position of having rendered services without wanting any
return for it but your affection; but, as I said before, if we are not careful we may see serious
consequences which may affect more or less everybody, and this ought to be the object of our
most anxious attention. I remain, my dear Victoria, your affectionate Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 37: Jules van Praet, author of a History of
    Flanders, was Secretary of the Belgian Legation in London in
    1831, and took a leading part in the negotiations which placed
    King Leopold on the throne.]

    [Footnote 38: King Leopold considered that the interests of
    Belgium were being neglected by the four Powers, and in his
    speech at the opening of his Parliament, on 13th November,
    stated amid loud acclamations that those interests would
    be defended with perseverance and courage. The Deputies, in
    reply, said that Belgium had consented to painful sacrifices
    only under a formal guarantee by the Powers, which they now
    shrank from carrying out.]

[Pageheading: BELGIUM AND HOLLAND]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

2nd December 1838.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and returns this letter with the enclosures.
He has read it and them with great attention. Your Majesty will probably think it right to
acquaint the King that your Majesty had already seen his letter to Lord Palmerston.

Lord Melbourne cannot perceive the justice of the King's complaint. For the sake of the King
himself and of the Belgian nation, we are most anxious to settle speedily and definitely the
questions so long pending between Belgium and Holland, and which arose from the separation
of the two countries in 1830. We can only settle it by the agreement of the four Great Powers
who constitute the Conference to which the question was referred, viz., Austria, Prussia, England,
France. Of course it is of vital importance for us to carry them all along with us, and for
that reason we press France. If she differs from us, there is a ground immediately laid for
difference and war.

Lord Melbourne would suggest that your Majesty should say "that your great affection for the
King, as well as your anxiety for the interests of your own country, and your desire for the
promotion of peace, render you most solicitous to have the Belgian question speedily and definitively
settled; that it appears to you that it can only be settled by the agreement of the four Powers
who constitute the Conference, and that therefore you cannot but wish most strongly to carry
France as well as the two others along with you."[39]

    [Footnote 39: See the Queen's letter of 5th December to the
    King of the Belgians.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Unless, therefore, the Americans make an attempt upon
Upper Canada, all is well. Lord Melbourne will have the pleasure of returning to Windsor to-morrow,
unless there should be any impediment, of which Lord Melbourne will inform your Majesty.

    [Footnote 40: Sir George Grey (1799-1882), at this time
    Under-Secretary for the Colonies, afterwards Secretary of
    State successively for Home and Colonial Affairs.]

    [Footnote 41: On the 3rd of November, however, the
    insurrection had broken out anew in Lower Canada, while
    in Upper Canada many American "sympathyzers" joined the
    insurgents there; these were decisively defeated at Prescott.
    This fight cost the British 45 in killed and wounded; 159 of
    their opponents (including 131 natives of the United
    States) were taken, and conveyed to Kingston, to be tried by
    court-martial.]

[Pageheading: BELGIAN AFFAIRS]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 5th December 1838.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I have to thank you for two letters, one brought by Van Praet, and the other
received on Tuesday. Before I proceed further I must tell you that both Lord Melbourne and
I had already seen your letter to Lord Palmerston, which he sent to us immediately on receiving
it. I have read these letters with the greatest attention, and can quite understand that your
difficulties are great in trying to restrain the eagerness and violence of some of your people.

My great affection for you, of course, makes me most anxious to see these troublesome and long
pending affairs settled, for the sake of a continuance of peace and tranquillity; but, dear
Uncle, as it appears to me that these affairs can only be settled by the agreement of the four
Powers, it is absolutely necessary that France should go with us as well as the others, and
I think, dear Uncle, you wrong us in thinking that we urged France too much and unfairly. You
must not, dear Uncle, think that it is from want of interest that I, in general, abstain from
touching upon these matters in my letters to you; but I am fearful, if I were to do so, to
change our present delightful and familiar correspondence into a formal and stiff discussion
upon political matters which would not be agreeable to either of us, and which I should deeply
regret. These are my reasons, and I trust you will understand them, and be convinced of my
unalterable and very great affection for you, my dearest Uncle, and of the great interest I
take in all that concerns your welfare and happiness and the prosperity of your country....

Pray give my affectionate love to Aunt Louise and the children, and believe me, always, your
most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: LORD DURHAM'S RESIGNATION]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord Durham arrived yesterday evening, and Lord Melbourne
has just seen Mr. Stanley, who has seen him. He represents him as calm, but much hurt and vexed
at the last despatch which expresses your Majesty's disapprobation of his conduct in issuing
the proclamation.[42] Lord Durham said that he should immediately write an answer to it, in
which he should state that he would communicate to the Government all the information which
he had collected upon the state of the Canadas. That he should not ask an audience of your
Majesty. This is his present decision. He may alter it; if he should, and through any channel
request an audience, Lord Melbourne is now clearly of opinion that your Majesty should merely
say that an answer will be sent and the propriety of granting an audience may then be fully
considered by your Majesty's confidential servants. Mr Stanley represents Lord Durham as not
speaking with much violence or asperity, but seeming to feel much the censure conveyed in the
last despatch.

Your Majesty will receive from the Colonial Office a précis of Sir John Colborne's despatches.
Nothing can be more honourable. The American force which made an incursion into Upper Canada
have all been taken prisoners....

Lord Melbourne thinks that as long as Lord Durham is here and some communication has been received
from him, he had better remain to-night in London. It will be necessary to ask Lord Durham
whether he has no intelligence of immediate importance to give.

[Pageheading: AN ENGLISH CHURCH FOR MALTA]

Queen Adelaide to Queen Victoria.

PALACE, VALETTA,[43] 13th December 1838.

MY DEAREST NIECE,--The English mail going to-day gives me another opportunity to address you,
and to name a subject to you which I think deserves your consideration, and about which I feel
most anxious. It is the want of a Protestant church in this place which I mean. There are so
many English residents here, it is the seat of an English Government, and there is not one
church belonging to the Church of England.... The consequence of this want of church accommodation
has been that the Dissenters have established themselves in considerable numbers, and one cannot
blame persons for attending their meetings when they have no church of their own.

I address myself to you, as the head of the Church of England, and entreat you to consider
well this important subject, and to talk it over with your Ministers and the Archbishop, in
order to devise the best means of remedying a want so discreditable to our country. Should
there be no funds at your disposal to effect this object, most happy shall I feel to contribute
to any subscription which may be set on foot, and I believe that a considerable sum may be
raised amongst the Protestants of this island, where all parties are most anxious to see a
proper place of divine worship erected; without assistance from England, however, it cannot
be effected. I therefore most humbly and confidently submit this subject to you, dearest Victoria,
who will bestow upon your Protestant subjects of this island an everlasting benefit by granting
them what they want most.[44]...

I hope this will find you quite well and happy, and that I shall soon again have the pleasure
of hearing from you. Give my affectionate love to your dear Mother, and all my dear sisters,
and believe me ever, my dearest Niece, your most devoted and faithfully attached Aunt,

ADELAIDE.

    [Footnote 43: The Queen-Dowager was at this time cruising in
    the Mediterranean, and made some stay at Malta.]

    [Footnote 44: Queen Adelaide herself erected the church at a
    cost of £10,000.]

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE'S ANXIETIES]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

21st December 1838.

... Lord Melbourne saw Mr. Stephenson this morning and learns from him that the Duke of Sussex[45]
is in the highest degree discontented at being informed decisively that there is no intention
of sending him to Ireland. He is very loud against the Government, and is also very angry with
Mr Stephenson, and the latter expects that he shall receive his dismissal.... Mr Stephenson
assures Lord Melbourne that he has mentioned this matter to no one but Lord Melbourne and Lady
Mary, and it is of importance that it should be kept secret. Lord Melbourne thinks it his duty
to apprise your Majesty of the feelings of the Duke, and of the possible origin of them.

Lord and Lady Holland return to London to-day and Lord Melbourne is going to dine with them.

    [Footnote 45: The Duke of Sussex was anxious to be appointed
    Viceroy of Ireland. Mr Stephenson was his Private Secretary.
    See ante, p. 129. (Ch. VII, 'Ireland and O'Connell)]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Both his duty and his inclination would prompt him to
do this without a moment's delay, if he did not find it incumbent upon him to represent to
your Majesty the very important circumstances which require his presence for two or three days
longer in London. The session of Parliament approaches; the questions which are to be considered
and prepared are of the most appalling magnitude, and of the greatest difficulty. Many of your
Majesty's servants, who fill the most important offices, are compelled by domestic calamity
to be absent, and it is absolutely necessary that there should be some general superintendence
of the measures to be proposed, and some consideration of the arrangements to be made. Lord
Melbourne assures your Majesty that he would not delay in London if he did not feel it to be
absolutely necessary for your Majesty's service....

[Pageheading: BRIGHTON]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 28th December 1838.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I have to thank you for two extremely kind and dear letters, which made
me very happy, and your kind heart would be pleased to know how happy. Sir H. Seymour[46] gave
me a very favourable account of your dearest Majesty, and was deeply gratified by your gracious
reception.

I am glad to find that you like Brighton better than last year. I think Brighton very agreeable
at this time of the year, till the east winds set in. It also gives the possibility of seeing
people without having them on one's hands the whole day, as is the case in the country. The
Pavilion, besides, is comfortable; that cannot be denied. Before my marriage it was there that
I met the Regent. Charlotte afterwards came with old Queen Charlotte. How distant all this
already, but still how present to one's memory.

The portrait of your Aunt and Leopold is nicely done. Don Leopoldo is like, and has at times
even a more intelligent look; he would amuse you--he is very original and very sly. I often
call him the little tyrant, because nobody knows so well de faire aller le monde.... My most
beloved Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 46: Sir Hamilton Seymour, Minister at Brussels.]

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER VIII

THE chief political event of the year (1839) at home arose out of the troubles in Jamaica.
In addition to the apprenticeship question, the state of the prisons, much overcrowded owing
to the planters' severity, had excited attention, and an Imperial Act was passed for their
regulation. To this action the Colonial Assembly showed marked hostility, and, after the dissolution
by Sir Lionel Smith, the Governor, the new House was no more placable. Accordingly, the home
Government brought in a Bill, in April, to suspend temporarily the Jamaica Constitution, but
on a division had a majority of five only in a house of five hundred and eighty-three. The
Ministers therefore resigned, and Sir Robert Peel was sent for; a difficulty as to the Ladies
of the Household, commonly called the Bedchamber Plot, compelled him to resign the task, and
the Whigs, much injured in reputation, resumed office. Some changes took place, Macaulay joining
the Ministry, and Lord Normanby, who had succeeded Lord Glenelg at the Colonial Office, exchanging
places with Lord John Russell, the Home Secretary. The trial of strength over the Speakership
ended in a victory for the Ministerial candidate, Mr Shaw Lefevre, by a majority of eighteen
in a house of six hundred and sixteen.

Penny Postage was introduced by an Act of this session.

The Princes Ernest and Albert of Saxe-Coburg arrived on a visit to the Queen in October, and
on the 14th the Queen's engagement to the latter was announced by herself to Lord Melbourne.
A few weeks later the Queen announced her betrothal at a meeting of the Privy Council.

During the year risings in favour of the "people's charter" took place in various parts of
the country, especially Birmingham and Newport, the six points demanded being the ballot, universal
suffrage, annual Parliaments, payment of members, the abolition of a property qualification
for members, and equal electoral districts. At Newport one Frost, a linen-draper whom Lord
John Russell had made a magistrate, headed a riot. He was tried with his confederates by a
special commission at Monmouth, and, with two others, sentenced to death; a sentence afterwards
commuted.

In the East, war broke out between the Sultan Mahmoud and the Pasha of Egypt, Mehemet Ali,
who had originally helped Turkey against Greece, but had since revolted and driven the Turks
from Syria. On that occasion (1833) Turkey had been saved by Russian intervention, a defensive
alliance, known as the treaty of Unkiar Skelessi, made between Russia and Turkey, and Mehemet
granted Syria as well as Egypt. On the revival of hostilities, Ibrahim, son of Mehemet, defeated
the Turkish army on June 24; a week later the Sultan Mahmoud died, and the Turkish admiral
treacherously delivered over the Turkish fleet to Mehemet at Alexandria. Once more the four
Powers (Great Britain, Austria, Prussia, and Russia) interfered to save the Sultan. The Czar
accepted the principle of a joint mediation, the advance of the Egyptians was stopped, and
the Sultan was informed that no terms of peace would be accepted which had not received the
approval of the Powers. The terms were settled at a congress held in London. Mehemet refused
to accept the terms, and was encouraged by France to persevere in his refusal.

The dispute between Belgium and Holland as to the Luxemburg territory was settled by a treaty
in the course of the year. Lord Durham presented his report on Canada, a document drafted by
Charles Buller but inspired by Lord Durham himself; though legislation did not take place this
year, this document laid the foundation of the federal union of the Canadas, and of the Constitution
of other autonomous colonies, but for the present the ex-Commissioner met with much criticism
of his actions.

Our troops were engaged during the year against Dost Mahommed, the Ameer of Afghanistan, a
usurper who many years earlier had driven Shah Sooja into exile. Lord Auckland, the Viceroy
of India, had sent Captain (afterwards Sir Alexander) Burnes on a Mission to Cabul, and the
Ameer had received him hospitably at first, but subsequently dismissed him from his Court.
Lord Auckland thereupon resolved to restore Shah Sooja, and in the autumn of 1838 issued a
manifesto dethroning Dost Mahommed. Operations were accordingly directed against him under
Sir John (afterwards Lord) Keane, who, on August 6, 1839, entered Cabul and placed Shah Sooja
on the throne. However open to criticism, the news of this result was enthusiastically received
in England, and Lord Auckland was promoted to an Earldom.

In China a dispute of long standing became acute. With the renewal of the East India Company's
charter, in 1834, the Chinese ports had been thrown open, and the opium trade became a source
of great profit to private traders. In spite of the prohibition which the Chinese Government
laid on importation of opium, the traffic was actively carried on, and, as a result of the
strained relations which ensued, Captain Elliot, the British Chief Superintendent, requested
that warships should proceed to China for the protection of British life and property.

CHAPTER VIII

1839

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

PAVILION [BRIGHTON], 1st January 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--... I don't like your croaking so about damp climates; if a niece may venture
to say such a thing, I might almost say it is ungrateful to your faithful and attached Belgians.

The Queen-Dowager's letters do tantalize one a good deal, I must own.[1] You will see that
old Lord Clarendon[2] is dead, which makes our friend Villiers Earl of Clarendon, but I am
afraid not with a large income.

Lord Palmerston has been unwell and obliged to go to Broadlands, where he still is. He had
gone through so much grief and labour, that it was absolutely necessary for him to recruit
his strength. The Normanbys spent two nights here.[3] Lord Melbourne is the only person staying
in the house besides several of my Court and my suite, and, I am sorry to say, is not very
well; he has also had, I fear, too much business to do.

Lady Breadalbane[4] is my new Lady of the Bedchamber, and a very nice person. Ever your devoted
Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Forgive this short scrawl.

    [Footnote 1: Queen Adelaide had described the orange-trees and
    tropical fruits in the gardens of the Palace of St Antonio,
    Valetta.]

    [Footnote 2: John Charles, third Earl, Chief Justice-in-eyre,
    North of Trent. His successor, who had been Minister to Spain
    since 1833, was afterwards the celebrated Foreign Secretary.]

    [Footnote 3: Lord Normanby, at this time Lord-Lieutenant of
    Ireland, became successively during the year, Colonial and
    Home Secretary. Lady Normanby, who had been a Lady-in-Waiting
    since the accession, was a daughter of the first Lord
    Ravensworth.]

    [Footnote 4: Eliza, daughter of George Baillie of Jerviswood.
    Her brother afterwards became tenth Earl of Haddington.]

[Pageheading: MURDER OF LORD NORBURY]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

6th January 1839.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and returns his best and warmest thanks
for the very kind and gracious communication which he had the honour and pleasure of receiving
from your Majesty yesterday evening. Your Majesty will have seen in the newspapers that Lord
Norbury was shot at in his own grounds and dangerously wounded.[5] Lord Melbourne learns to-day
by a letter from Lord Morpeth that Lord Norbury is since dead. This is a shocking event, and
will, of course, create a strong sensation, much stronger than the death in the same manner
of several persons of inferior degree. It is almost the first time that an attempt of this
kind has been directed against an individual of that rank or station....

Lord Melbourne has seen Sir Henry Halford,[6] who says that his pulse is low and his system
languid. He has prescribed some draughts, which Lord Melbourne trusts will be of service, but
he feels much depressed to-day. He dined yesterday at Lady Holland's, where he met Mr Ellice,[7]
civil and friendly enough in appearance, but Lord Melbourne fears hostile at heart, and a determined
partisan of Lord Durham. Lord Durham has not yet made to Lord Glenelg the promised communication
of his report and plan, but it is said that he will do so soon....

    [Footnote 5: At Kilbeggan Abbey, County Meath. The murderer
    escaped.]

    [Footnote 6: The celebrated physician: he attended George IV.
    and William IV., as well as Queen Victoria.]

    [Footnote 7: Son-in-law of Lord Grey, as was also Lord
    Durham.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 11th January 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--The dreadful moment has arrived, and dear Marie[8] is no more to bless her
loving relations with her presence on this earth of grief and troubles! It is a heavy dispensation,
and one that it is difficult to comprehend, but we must submit.

I thought it best to write to my poor dear Aunt, for whom this will be a sad blow; but I abstained
from doing so to the dear Queen of the French just as yet. I have no letters, and only learnt
the melancholy event by the papers. Poor wretched Alexander! What a loss, what a change for
him, poor fellow!

You will, I am sure, regret that sweet amiable creature, as poor Marie was, very much, having
known her so well, and her attachment to you was great.

I will not prolong this letter, but merely repeat how much I feel for you all, and beg you
to believe me, your most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 8: Princess Marie of Orleans, born 1813, sister to
    the Queen of the Belgians, had married Prince Alexander of
    Würtemberg, in 1837.]

[Pageheading: HOLLAND AND BELGIUM]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 18th January 1839.

... Your Aunt as well as myself are very anxious to be of use to poor Alexander. The dispositions
of the whole family are extremely kind towards him, but he is shy and a little helpless; his
present melancholy situation is of course calculated to increase this. His position puts me
in mind of mine in 1817.... He, besides, is surrounded by people who are kind to him. Of George
IV., then Regent, it was observed that for years he had not been in such good spirits than
by the loss of his daughter. She was more popular than himself--that was, since her mariage,
her only crime....

I feel very grateful for Lord Melbourne's kindness on the subject of our sad loss. He is so
feeling and kindhearted that he, much more than most men who have lived so much in the grand
monde, has preserved a certain warmth and freshness of feeling....

Your cousins kiss your hands, and I remain, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

STANHOPE STREET, 27th January 1839.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and returns to your Majesty the
accompanying papers which he received from Viscount Melbourne. Your Majesty will have seen
by Sir Edward Disbrowe's[9] despatches that the concentration of Dutch troops mentioned in
these reports was purely defensive, and was the consequence of the military demonstrations
previously made by the Belgians; and it appears, moreover, that the Dutch force is inferior
in number to the Belgian force opposite to it; and that affords an additional security against
the chance of an invasion of Belgium by the Dutch. It is, however, undeniable that when two
armies are drawn up in face of each other, separated by a small distance, and animated by mutual
hatred, the chances of collision become great and imminent. But it is to be hoped in the present
case that the communication made by the Conference to the two parties on Thursday last may
avert danger of hostilities between the Dutch and Belgians.[10]

    [Footnote 9: Minister at the Hague.]

    [Footnote 10: See next letter.]

[Pageheading: BELGIUM AND ENGLAND]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 7th February 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I am much grieved to learn that poor Philippe[11] has given you such anxiety.
My poor Aunt! it really is too much upon her to have these cares added to her recent severe
affliction. I hope to God that I shall get news of Philippe's complete recovery to-morrow.

I regret to hear that your Government gives you so much trouble, but trust that you will exert
all your influence, as you have so frequently done, to persuade your Ministers to be reasonable,
and not to resist the favourable offers made to the Government. Everybody here is exceedingly
anxious for the conclusion of these long pending affairs, and hope that the answer from Belgium
will soon arrive.[12] You will forgive me, dear Uncle, if I express to you my earnest hope
that these expectations may not be disappointed, for I feel that since the Dutch have so instantly
accepted the proposition of the Conference, Belgium would suffer in the eyes of this country
were she to delay, and, what I am still more fearful of, my beloved Uncle, you might be blamed,
and suffer for what your Government may do. You will, I know, forgive this freedom, which is
prompted by my great anxiety for your welfare and happiness (which I know you are well aware
of), and for the preservation of the inestimable blessings of peace. No one feels more for
you than I do at this difficult moment, nor than I have done throughout these trying and embarrassing
affairs. That all may be peaceably and amicably settled is my earnest prayer.

Everything went off well yesterday,[13] and we are again launched into a political campaign,
which it is impossible not to contemplate with a certain degree of anxiety.

Adieu! my dear Uncle. Give my love to my dear Aunt, and believe me, always, your most devoted
Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 11: See ante, p. 65. (12th April, 1837)]

    [Footnote 12: The twenty-four Articles, to which Belgium
    had acceded in 1831, had then been rejected by Holland. Now,
    however, Holland wished to adopt them. The Belgian Government
    vainly proposed different schemes, but at last the Bill for
    ratifying the proposal of the Powers (made 23rd January 1839,
    and accepted by Holland on 11th February) passed the Belgian
    Chambers.]

    [Footnote 13: The Queen opened Parliament in person on 6th
    February.]

[Pageheading: CABINET DISSENSION]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

10th February 1839.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and thinks it right and necessary
to acquaint your Majesty that the Cabinet yesterday was very stormy and unpleasant. Lord John
Russell brought on the question of the Civil Government of the Army, in a temperate and judicious
manner, but Lord Howick made a most violent speech, strongly condemning the whole of the present
system and arraigning the conduct of the Treasury and other Departments, saying that he should
not throw up his office because no measure was brought forward, but that, when questioned upon
the subject by Mr Hume in the House of Commons, as it was certain that he would be, he should
say that Government would do nothing upon the subject, until he (Mr Hume) compelled them, and
that he should express his entire disapprobation of the present system, and his reasons in
detail for that disapprobation. Your Majesty will perceive that nothing could be more violent
than this course. It was borne with great patience by the rest of the Cabinet, although Mr.
Rice,[14] against whom the greater part of Lord Howick's speech was directed, felt himself
most deeply hurt, and so expressed himself in private afterwards to Lord Melbourne. Upon the
whole, Lord Melbourne cannot but consider that affairs are in a most precarious state, and
that whilst there is so much discontent fermenting within the Cabinet itself, there must be
great doubt of Lord Melbourne's being much longer able to hold the Administration together.
Lord Melbourne hopes that there is nothing imminent and immediate, but this sort of outbreak
and contention may so soon become serious, that Lord Melbourne thought it his duty to take
an early opportunity of informing your Majesty of what had taken place. Lord Melbourne would
wait upon your Majesty without delay, but trusts that this letter will be sufficient to dispel
any disquietude which his former communication may have excited.

[Pageheading: THE DUKE OF LUCCA]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

WILTON CRESCENT, 20th February 1839.

Sir Robert Peel opposed the Motion on the ground that he meant to resist any change in the
Corn Laws. He made a very skilful use of the returns of cotton, etc., exported.

    [Footnote 15: M.P. for Wolverhampton 1835-1898, becoming
    "Father of the House."]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

STANHOPE STREET, 5th March 1839.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and requests to be honoured with
your Majesty's commands upon the accompanying letter from Count Pollon.[16] Viscount Palmerston
at the same time begs to state that he has reason to believe, from what Count Pollon said to
him in conversation two days ago, that the Duke of Lucca[17] has a notion that Sovereign Princes
who have had the honour of dining with your Majesty, have been invited by note and not by card.
If that should be so, and if your Majesty should invite the Duke of Lucca to dine at the Palace
before his departure, perhaps the invitation might be made by note, instead of by card, as
it was when the Duke last dined at the Palace. Your Majesty may think this a small matter,
but the Duke is a small Sovereign.

    [Footnote 16: For many years Sardinian Minister in England.]

    [Footnote 17: Lucca was an independent Italian State.]

[Pageheading: PORTUGAL]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

9th March 1839.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and feels very deeply the very kind
and gracious concern which your Majesty expresses for his health, as well as your Majesty's
solicitude and interest upon all occasions. Lord Melbourne will take your Majesty's advice,
but his experience teaches him that illness is not so easily put off, and that it will have
its course in spite of precaution....

Lord Melbourne thinks, upon the whole, that your Majesty had perhaps better write by messenger
a few lines of kindness and recollection. It can be no descent on your Majesty's part to do
so, and as we may be obliged to take very strong measures with respect to Portugal, it is as
well that there should be no appearance of any deficiency of affection or attention. Lord Melbourne
[thinks] that, for the reason given by your Majesty, your Majesty may perhaps as well not go
to the play this evening, but is very sorry to hear that your Majesty is low and out of spirits.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 14th March 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--Many thanks for two letters, one which I received last Sunday, and the other
enclosing a letter from Stockmar this morning. I am glad you agree with me about Victoire.[18]
Since I wrote to you, I got these two letters from the Portuguese children--as I disrespectfully
but very deservedly call them--which I send you, in order that you may see how they wish Victoire
to come to them, which I fear and think is totally impracticable, for it would never do for
Victoire to go so far without her mother. Nevertheless, I thought it but right by them to send
you these letters, and I have written to them giving them little hope.

The French Ministry are gone, and I am sure the poor King will be much vexed by it. They talk
of Broglie as Minister for Foreign Affairs,[19] but I am afraid Thiers is inevitable. We are
rather in fear of Thiers here, but it is a pity that Louis Philippe should show so much dislike
to a man he must take, for it will have the effect of a defeat.

I have no time to add more, but to beg you to believe me, always, your most affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 18: Daughter of Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg, and
    married in April 1840 to the Duc de Nemours.]

    [Footnote 19: After a provisional Cabinet, in which the Duc de
    Montebello was Foreign Minister, the King appointed a Ministry
    with Soult as Premier and Foreign Minister.]

[Pageheading: DIFFICULTIES OF THE MINISTRY]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. That it is impossible to acquiesce in the vote of last
night in the House of Lords.[20]

2. That it would not be justifiable to resign in the face of the declaration which I made in
the year 1836, in the House of Lords, that I would maintain my post as long as I possessed
the confidence of the Crown and of the House of Commons, particularly as there is no reason
to suppose that we have lost the confidence of the House.

3. That the course to be pursued is to give notice in the House of Commons to-night, that the
sense of that House will be taken immediately after the Easter Holidays, upon a vote of approbation
of the principles of Lord Normanby's government of Ireland.

If we lose that question, or carry it by a small majority, we must resign. If we carry it,
we may go on.

This is a plain statement of the case, and this course will at least give your Majesty time
to consider what is to be done.

    [Footnote 20: By 63 to 58 Lord Roden carried a motion for a
    Select Committee to enquire into the state of Ireland; the
    Ministry replied by obtaining a vote of the House of Commons
    in their favour by 318 to 296.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

BROCKET HALL,[21] 1st April 1839. Nothing could be more prosperous than his journey down, although
it rained hard the greater part of the way. Lord Melbourne slept well, and has walked out this
morning, although it was still showery. Nothing is so fatiguing as the first exposure to the
air of the country, and Lord Melbourne feels the influence of it.

Lord Melbourne returns the letters of the King of the Belgians. He accounts very naturally
for the conduct of the poor Duchess,[22] but she should have recollected the extreme disadvantage
and discredit which attaches to a change of religion. Un gentilhomme ne change jamais la religion,
was the saying of Napoleon, and is very just. It is difficult to understand the movements and
motives of parties in a foreign country, and therefore Lord Melbourne does not feel able to
pronounce any opinion upon the transactions in France. Lord Melbourne had seen G----'s letters,
a pert jackanapes, who always takes the worst view of every subject, and does as much mischief
as he can....

Lord Melbourne is just starting for Panshanger.[23] The evening is better than the morning
was, but cold.

    [Footnote 21: Lord Melbourne's house on the Lea, about three
    miles north of Hatfield. Its construction was begun by Sir
    Matthew Lamb, and completed by his son, Sir Peniston, the
    first Lord Melbourne.]

    [Footnote 22: Princess Alexander of Würtemberg. On her
    death-bed, she had expressed a wish to her husband that he
    should join the Roman Catholic Church.]

    [Footnote 23: Panshanger, not far distant from Brocket, the
    house of Lord Melbourne's brother-in-law, Lord Cowper, and
    celebrated for its pictures, was bought by Lord Chancellor
    Cowper, temp. Queen Anne.]

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND BELGIUM]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 9th April 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--... I regret to learn you are still not easy about your own affairs, but trust
all will now be speedily adjusted. You always allow me, dear Uncle, to speak frankly to you;
you will, therefore, I hope, not be displeased if I venture to make a few observations on one
or two parts of your letter.

You say that the anger of the Belgians is principally directed against England.[24] Now, I
must say you are very unjust towards us, and (if I could) I might be even a little angry with
you, dear Uncle. We only pressed Belgium for her own good, and not for ours. It may seem hard
at first, but the time will come when you will see that we were right in urging you not to
delay any longer the signature of the treaty.

I think that you will see in this frank expression of my sentiments no wish to annoy or hurt
you, but only an anxious desire to prove to you that England is Belgium's sincere friend, and
that my Government are ever desirous of doing what is in their power for the welfare, security,
and prosperity of yourself and your kingdom.

I regret much the state of affairs in France,[25] which cannot but make us all somewhat anxious;
you will, I hope tell me what news you hear from Paris.

Pray, dearest Uncle, receive my best, my very warmest, wishes for many
happy returns of dear Leopold's birthday, and also, though somewhat
late, for Philippe's birthday. If there was
    a great explosion in France, it would not be astonishing to
    see the people here join it; it would rather be astonishing to
    see it otherwise, after the kind treatment they received from
    the Powers."]

    [Footnote 25: The King was for a time without any Ministry,
    and the meeting of the Chambers had to be postponed.]

[Pageheading: PRINCE ALBERT IN ITALY]

Baron Stockmar to Queen Victoria.

NAPLES, 16th April 1839.

MADAM,--As it is some time that I had the honour to address your Majesty, I hope that a further
account of our crusades will meet with a favourable reception.

It is now somewhat better than a month that we left Florence, I may say with regret, for we
were there very comfortably in every respect. On our route to Rome we enjoyed the beautiful
sight of the cataract at Terni, the place where Queen Caroline sojourned for some time. We
were particularly fortunate that day, as the brightest sunshine heightened its picturesque
effects beyond description. We found old Rome very full, and to see it and its ecclesiastic
governors to advantage, the Holy Week is certainly the properest time. From morning to noon
the Prince was at seeing sights, and he made so good a use of his time, that I don't think
that something really remarkable was left unseen. Upon this very principle, we paid our respects
to the Holy Father,[26] of which interview the Prince made so admirable a sketch, so very worthy
of H.B.,[27] that I am very much tempted to send it for the inspection of your Majesty. We
assisted at the Church ceremonies of the Holy Week from the beginning to the end. The music
of the Sistine Chapel, which is only vocal, may be well considered as unique, and has not failed
to make a lasting impression upon a mind so musical as the Prince's....

I never think of your Majesty--and I take the liberty of thinking very frequently of you--without
praying for health, serenity of mind, comfort and success for you, and I can well say that
I am from my heart, your Majesty's sincerely attached and devoted Servant,

STOCKMAR.

    [Footnote 26: Gregory XVI.]

    [Footnote 27: Initials adopted by Mr Doyle, father of Richard
    Doyle, in his Reform Caricatures.]

[Pageheading: BELGIUM]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

19th April 1839.

... I am glad I extracted some spark of politics from your dear Majesty, very kindly and nicely
expressed. I know that your generous little heart would not have wished at any time but what
was good for a country in which you were much beloved. But the fact is, that certainly your
Government have taken the lead in maintaining a condition which time had rendered difficult
to comply with. Physicians will tell you that often an operation, which might have been performed
at one time, could not, without great danger for the patient, be undertaken some years later.
We have not been listened to, and arrangements are forced on us, in themselves full of seeds
of danger, when by consulting the real interests of Holland and Belgium, both countries might
have been placed on a footing of sincere peace and good neighbourhood. This country feels now
humbled and désenchanté with its soi-disant political independence as it pleased the Conference
to settle it. They will take a dislike to a political state which wounds their vanity, and
will, in consequence of this, not wish it to continue. Two things will happen, therefore, on
the very first opportunity, either that this country will be involved in war to better a position
which it thinks too humiliating, or that it will voluntarily throw up a nominal independence
in which it is now hemmed in between France and Holland, which begins on the North Sea, and
ends, of all the things in this world, on the Moselle!

I think old Pirson, who said in the Chamber that if the treaty was carried into execution I
was likely to be the first and last King of the country, was not wrong. Whenever this will
happen, it will be very awkward for England, and deservedly so. To see, after eight years of
hard work, blooming and thriving political plantations cut and maimed, and that by those who
have a real interest to protect them, is very melancholy. I do not say these things with the
most distant idea of bringing about any change, but only because in the high and very responsible
position in which Providence has placed you, it is good to tell you the truth, as you ought
to have weight and influence on the affairs of Europe; and England, not being in the possibility
of making territorial acquisition, has a real and permanent interest in the proper maintenance
of a balance of political power in Europe. Now I will leave you to enjoy the beginning of Spring,
which a mild rain seems to push on prodigiously. Believe me ever, my dear Victoria, your very
attached Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: JAMAICA]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. The Bill is for suspending the functions of the Legislative
Assembly of Jamaica, and governing that island for five years by a Governor and Council.[28]
If Sir Robert Peel should persist in his proposal, and a majority of the House of Commons should
concur with him, it will be such a mark of want of confidence as it will be impossible for
your Majesty's Government to submit to.

    [Footnote 28: See Introductory Note, ante, p. 141. ( to Ch. VIII)]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 30th April 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I have to thank you for your last letter, which I received on Sunday. Though
you seem not to dislike my political sparks, I think it is better not to increase them, as
they might finally take fire, particularly as I see with regret that upon this one subject
we cannot agree. I shall therefore limit myself to my expressions of very sincere wishes for
the welfare and prosperity of Belgium.

The Grand Duke,[29] after a long delay, is at length to arrive on Friday night; I shall put
myself out of my way in order to be very civil to such a great personage. I am already thinking
how I shall lodge all my relations; you must prepare Uncle Ferdinand for its not being very
ample, but this Palace, though large, is not calculated to hold many visitors....

Believe me, always, your very affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 29: The Hereditary Grand Duke of Russia, afterwards
    the Emperor Alexander II.]

[Pageheading: MINISTERIAL CRISIS]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

7th May 1839.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has to acquaint your Majesty that
the division upon the Jamaica Bill, which took place about two this morning, was two hundred
and ninety-nine against the measure, and three hundred and four in favour of it.[30] Lord Melbourne
has not heard from Lord John Russell since this event, but a Cabinet will of course be summoned
early this morning, and Lord Melbourne cannot conceal from your Majesty that in his opinion
the determination of the Cabinet must be that the relative numbers upon this vote, joined to
the consideration of no less than nine members of those who have hitherto invariably supported
the Government having gone against it now, leave your Majesty's confidential servants no alternative
but to resign their offices into your Majesty's hands. They cannot give up the Bill either
with honour or satisfaction to their own consciences, and in the face of such an opposition
they cannot persevere in it with any hope of success. Lord Melbourne is certain that your Majesty
will not deem him too presuming if he expresses his fear that this decision will be both painful
and embarrassing to your Majesty, but your Majesty will meet this crisis with that firmness
which belongs to your character, and with that rectitude and sincerity which will carry your
Majesty through all difficulties. It will also be greatly painful to Lord Melbourne to quit
the service of a Mistress who has treated him with such unvarying kindness and unlimited confidence;
but in whatever station he may be placed, he will always feel the deepest anxiety for your
Majesty's interests and happiness, and will do the utmost in his power to promote and secure them.

    [Footnote 30: The numbers are apparently incorrectly stated.
    The division was 294 to 289.]

[Pageheading: RESIGNATION IMMINENT]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

7th May 1839.

The present circumstances have been for some time so probable, or rather so certain, that Lord
Melbourne has naturally been led to weigh and consider maturely the advice which, if called
upon, he should tender to your Majesty when they did arrive. That advice is, at once to send
for the Duke of Wellington. Your Majesty appears to Lord Melbourne to have no other alternative.
The Radicals have neither ability, honesty, nor numbers. They have no leaders of any character.
Lord Durham was raised, one hardly knows how, into something of a factitious importance by
his own extreme opinions, by the panegyrics of those who thought he would serve them as an
instrument, and by the management of the Press, but any little public reputation which he might
once have acquired has been entirely dissipated and destroyed by the continued folly of his
conduct in his Canadian Government. There is no party in the State to which your Majesty can
now resort, except that great party which calls itself Conservative, and of that party, his
rank, station, reputation, and experience point out the Duke of Wellington as the person to
whom your Majesty should apply.

Lord Melbourne therefore advises that your Majesty should send for the Duke of Wellington,
and should acquaint him, provided your Majesty so feels, that you were entirely satisfied with
your late Government, and that you part from them with reluctance; but that as he and the party
of which he is the head have been the means of removing them from office, you naturally look
to him to advise you as to the means of supplying their places and carrying on the business
of the country.

If the Duke should be unwilling to form the Government himself, and should desire to devolve
the task upon Sir Robert Peel, Lord Melbourne would advise your Majesty to accede to that suggestion;
but Lord Melbourne would counsel your Majesty to be very unwilling to suffer the Government
to be formed by Sir Robert Peel, without the active assistance in office of the Duke of Wellington.

With respect both to measures and appointments, your Majesty should place the fullest confidence
in those to whom you entrust the management of affairs, exercising at the same time, and fully
expressing, your own judgment upon both.

Your Majesty will do well to be from the beginning very vigilant that all measures and all
appointments are stated to your Majesty in the first instance, and your Majesty's pleasure
taken thereon previously to any instruments being drawn out for carrying them into effect,
and submitted to your Majesty's signature. It is the more necessary to be watchful and active
in this respect, as the extreme confidence which your Majesty has reposed in me may have led
to some omission at times of these most necessary preliminaries.

The patronage of the Lord Chamberlain's Department is of the greatest importance, and may be
made to conduce at once to the beneficial influence of the Crown, and to the elevation and
encouragement of the professions of the Church and of Medicine. This patronage, by being left
to the uncontrolled exercise of successive Lord Chamberlains, has been administered not only
wastefully but perniciously. The physicians to the late King were many of them men of little
eminence; the chaplains are still a sorry set. Your Majesty should insist with the new Ministers
that this patronage should be disposed of, not by the Lord Chamberlain, but, as it has hitherto
been during your Majesty's reign, by your Majesty upon consultation with your Prime Minister.

[Pageheading: DISTRESS OF THE QUEEN]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 9th May 1839.

The Queen thinks Lord Melbourne may possibly wish to know how she is this morning; the Queen
is somewhat calmer; she was in a wretched state till nine o'clock last night, when she tried
to occupy herself and try to think less gloomily of this dreadful change, and she succeeded
in calming herself till she went to bed at twelve, and she slept well; but on waking this morning,
all--all that had happened in one short eventful day came most forcibly to her mind, and brought
back her grief; the Queen, however, feels better now; but she couldn't touch a morsel of food
last night, nor can she this morning. The Queen trusts Lord Melbourne slept well, and is well
this morning; and that he will come precisely at eleven o'clock. The Queen has received no
answer from the Duke, which is very odd, for she knows he got her letter. The Queen hopes Lord
Melbourne received her letter last night.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

8th May 1839.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and is much grieved that he did not
answer your Majesty's letter yesterday evening, as your Majesty desired, but he did not get
it till late, and he felt much tired and harassed by all that had passed during the day. The
situation is very painful, but it is necessary for your Majesty to be prudent and firm. It
is of all things necessary not to be suspected of any unfair dealing. Whilst Lord Melbourne
holds his office, everything of course may be written to him as usual; but still the resolutions
for the formation of the new Government will now commence, and it will never do, whilst they
are going on, either for appearance or in reality, that Lord Melbourne should dine with your
Majesty, as he did before this disturbance. It would create feeling, possibly lead to remonstrance,
and throw a doubt upon the fairness and integrity of your Majesty's conduct. All this is very
painful both to do and to say, but it is unavoidable; it must be said, and it must be done.
Lord Melbourne will wait upon your Majesty at eleven.[31]

    [Footnote 31: Lord Melbourne had made the not unnatural
    mistake of recommending to the Queen, as members of her first
    Household, ladies who were nearly related to himself and his
    Whig colleagues. No doubt these were the ladies whom he knew
    best, and in whom he had entire confidence; but he ought to
    have had sufficient prescience to see that the Queen would
    probably form strong attachments to the ladies who first
    served her: and that if the appointments had not in the first
    instance a political complexion, yet that the Whig tendencies
    which these Ladies represented were likely to affect the
    Queen, in the direction of allying her closely with a
    particular party in the State.]

[Pageheading: THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON]

[Pageheading: SIR ROBERT PEEL]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

8th May 1839.

The Queen told Lord Melbourne she would give him an account of what passed, which she is very
anxious to do. She saw the Duke for about twenty minutes; the Queen said she supposed he knew
why she sent for him, upon which the Duke said, No, he had no idea. The Queen then said that
she had had the greatest confidence in her late Ministry, and had parted with them with the
greatest reluctance; upon which the Duke observed that he could assure me no one felt more
pain in hearing the announcement of their resignation than he did, and that he was deeply grieved
at it. The Queen then continued, that as his party had been instrumental in removing them,
that she must look to him to form a new Government. The Duke answered that he had no power
whatever in the House of Commons, "that if he was to say black was white,[32] they would say
it was not," and that he advised me to send for Sir Robert Peel, in whom I could place confidence,
and who was a gentleman and a man of honour and integrity. The Queen then said she hoped he
would at all events have a place in the new Cabinet. The Duke at first rather refused, and
said he was so deaf, and so old and unfit for any discussion, that if he were to consult his
own feelings he would rather not do it, and remain quite aloof; but that as he was very anxious
to do anything that would tend to the Queen's comfort, and would do everything and at all times
that could be of use to the Queen, and therefore if she and her Prime Minister urged his accepting
office, he would. The Queen said she had more confidence in him than in any of the others of
his party. The Queen then mentioned the subject of the Household, and of those who were not
in Parliament. The Duke did not give any decisive answer about it, but advised the Queen not
to begin with conditions of this sort, and wait till the matter was proposed. The Queen then
said that she felt certain he would understand the great friendship she had for Lord Melbourne,
who had been to her quite a parent, and the Duke said no one felt and knew that better than
he did, and that no one could still be of greater use to the Queen than Lord Melbourne. The
Duke spoke of his personal friendship for Lord Melbourne, and that he hoped I knew that he
had often done all he could to help your (Lord Melbourne's) Government. The Queen then mentioned
her intention to prove her great fairness to her new Government in telling them, that they
might know there was no unfair dealing, that I meant to see you often as a friend, as I owed
so much to you. The Duke said he quite understood it, and knew I would not exercise this to
weaken the Government, and that he would take my part about it, and felt for me. He was very
kind, and said he called it "a misfortune" that you had all left me.

The Queen wrote to Peel, who came after two, embarrassed and put out. The Queen repeated what
she had said to the Duke about her former Government, and asked Sir Robert to form a new Ministry.
He does not seem sanguine; says entering the Government in a minority is very difficult; he
felt unequal to the task, and far from exulting in what had happened, as he knew what pain
it must give me; he quite approved that the Duke should take office, and saw the importance
of it; meant to offer him the post of Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and if he refused, Lord
Aberdeen; Lord Lyndhurst, Chancellor; hoped to secure Stanley and Graham; Goulburn to be the
candidate for the Speaker's Chair; he expects a severe conflict then, and if he should be beat
must either resign or dissolve Parliament. Before this the Queen said she was against a dissolution,
in which he quite agreed, but of course wished no conditions should be made; he felt the task
arduous, and that he would require me to demonstrate (a certain degree, if any I can only feel)
confidence in the Government, and that my Household would be one of the marks of that. The
Queen mentioned the same thing about her Household, to which he at present would give no answer,
and said nothing should be done without my knowledge or approbation. He repeated his surprise
at the course you had all taken in resigning, which he did not expect. The Queen talked of
her great friendship for, and gratitude to Lord Melbourne, and repeated what she had said to
the Duke, in which Peel agreed; but he is such a cold, odd man she can't make out what he means.
He said he couldn't expect me to have the confidence in him I had in you (and which he never
can have) as he has not deserved it. My impression is, he is not happy and sanguine. He comes
to me to-morrow at one to report progress in his formation of the new Government. The Queen
don't like his manner after--oh! how different, how dreadfully different, to that frank, open,
natural and most kind, warm manner of Lord Melbourne.[33] The Duke I like by far better to
Peel. The Queen trusts Lord Melbourne will excuse this long letter, but she was so very anxious
he should know all. The Queen was very much collected, and betrayed no agitation during these
two trying Audiences. But afterwards again all gave way. She feels Lord Melbourne will understand
it, amongst enemies to those she most relied on and esteemed, and people who seem to have no
heart; but what is worst of all is the being deprived of seeing Lord Melbourne as she used to do.

    [Footnote 32: Sic: an obvious mistake for "black was
    black."]

    [Footnote 33: Lady de Grey had written to Peel on 7th
    May:--"The Queen has always expressed herself much impressed
    with Lord Melbourne's open manner, and his truth. The latter
    quality you possess, the former not.

    "Now, dear Peel, the first impression on so young a girl's
    mind is of immense consequence, accustomed as she has been
    to the open and affectionate manner of Lord Melbourne, who,
    entre nous, treats her as a father, and, with all his
    faults, feels for her as such."--Sir Robert Peel, Parker,
    vol. ii. p. 389.]

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE'S ADVICE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

9th May 1839.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He has read with the greatest attention
the very clear and distinct account which your Majesty has written of that which passed at
the Audiences which your Majesty has given to the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel. Nothing
could have been more proper and judicious than your Majesty's conduct, and they appear to have
acted upon their part with propriety and sincerity. Lord Melbourne has no doubt that both with
respect to him (Lord Melbourne) and to themselves and their own feelings and position, they
expressed what they really think. The Duke was right in saying that in general, in affairs
of this nature, it is best not to begin with conditions; but this matter of the Household is
so personal to yourself, that it was best to give an intimation of your feelings upon it in
the first instance. Lord Melbourne has little doubt that if they could have acted from themselves,
they would have acceded to your Majesty's wish at once; but your Majesty must recollect that
they have others to satisfy, and must not attribute entirely to them anything that is harsh
and unreasonable. Lord Melbourne advises your Majesty to urge this question of the Household
strongly as a matter due to yourself and your own wishes; but if Sir Robert is unable to concede
it, it will not do to refuse and to put off the negotiation upon it. Lord Melbourne would strongly
advise your Majesty to do everything to facilitate the formation of the Government. Everything
is to be done and to be endured rather than run the risk of getting into the situation in which
they are in France, of no party being able to form a Government and conduct the affairs of
the country.[34]

The Dissolution of Parliament is a matter of still more importance, and if this should be again
pressed upon your Majesty, Lord Melbourne would advise your Majesty to reserve your opinion,
not to give a promise that you will dissolve, nor to say positively that you will not. You
may say that you do not think it right to fetter the Prerogative of the Crown by previous engagements,
that a dissolution of Parliament is to be decided according to the circumstances at the time,
that you mean to give full confidence to the Government that shall be formed, and to do everything
in your power to support them, and that you will consider whether Parliament shall be dissolved,
when you are advised to dissolve it, and have before you the reasons for such a measure.

Lord Melbourne earnestly entreats your Majesty not to suffer yourself to be affected by any
faultiness of manner which you may observe. Depend upon it, there is no personal hostility
to Lord Melbourne nor any bitter feelings against him. Sir Robert is the most cautious and
reserved of mankind. Nobody seems to Lord Melbourne to know him, but he is not therefore deceitful
or dishonest. Many a very false man has a very open sincere manner, and vice versâ....

Lord Melbourne earnestly hopes that your Majesty is better this morning.

Lord Melbourne shall hear again after she sees Peel this morning....

The Queen has just now heard Lord Liverpool is not in town.

The Queen hopes Lord Melbourne is able to read her letters; if ever there is anything he cannot
read, he must send them back, and mark what he can't read.

[Pageheading: LORD PALMERSTON'S GRATITUDE]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

STANHOPE STREET, 9th May 1839.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and begs to return your Majesty
his grateful thanks for your Majesty's gracious communication of this morning. It affords Viscount
Palmerston the most heart-felt satisfaction to know that his humble but zealous endeavours
to promote the interests of his country and to uphold the honour of your Majesty's Crown, have
had the good fortune to meet with your Majesty's approbation; and he begs most respectfully
to assure your Majesty that the deep impression produced by the condescending kindness which
he has upon all occasions experienced from your Majesty can never be effaced from his mind.

When the Government was changed in 1830, the principal posts of the Household were placed at
the disposal of Lord Grey, but the Grooms and Equerries were not removed.

When Sir Robert Peel himself became Minister in 1834, no part of the Household were removed
except those who were in Parliament.

When I became Prime Minister again in 1835, none of the Grooms or Equerries were removed because
none of them were in Parliament.

They press upon your Majesty, whose personal feelings ought from your circumstances to be more
consulted, a measure which no Minister before ever pressed upon a Sovereign.

If this is put to him by your Majesty, Lord Melbourne does not see how he can resist it. Sir
Robert Peel has behaved very ill, and has insisted on my giving up my Ladies, to which I replied
that I never would consent, and I never saw a man so frightened. He said he must go to the
Duke of Wellington and consult with him, when both would return, and he said this must suspend
all further proceedings, and he asked whether I should be ready to receive a decision, which
I said I should; he was quite perturbed--but this is infamous. I said, besides many other things,
that if he or the Duke of Wellington had been at the head of the Government when I came to
the Throne, perhaps there might have been a few more Tory Ladies, but that then if you had
come into Office you would never have dreamt of changing them. I was calm but very decided,
and I think you would have been pleased to see my composure and great firmness; the Queen of
England will not submit to such trickery. Keep yourself in readiness, for you may soon be wanted.

[Pageheading: PROPOSED NEW CABINET]

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Thursday, 9th May 1839.

At half-past two I saw the Duke of Wellington. I remained firm, and he told Sir Robert that
I remained firm. Lord Melbourne will since have heard what has taken place. Lord Melbourne
must not think the Queen rash in her conduct; she saw both the Duke and Sir Robert again, and
declared to them she could not change her opinion. The Ladies are not (as the Duke imagined
was stated in the Civil List Bill) in the place of the Lords; and the Queen felt this was an
attempt to see whether she could be led and managed like a child; if it should lead to Sir
Robert Peel's refusing to undertake the formation of the Government, which would be absurd,
the Queen will feel satisfied that she has only been defending her own rights, on a point which
so nearly concerned her person, and which, if they had succeeded in, would have led to every
sort of unfair attempt at power; the Queen maintains all her ladies,--and thinks her Prime
Minister will cut a sorry figure indeed if he resigns on this. Sir Robert is gone to consult
with his friends, and will return in two or three hours with his decision. The Queen also maintained
the Mistress of the Robes, for as he said only those who are in Parliament shall be removed,
I should like to know if they mean to give the Ladies seats in Parliament?

We shall see what will be done. The Queen would not have stood so firmly on the Grooms and
Equerries, but her Ladies are entirely her own affair, and not the Ministers'. Lord Melbourne
had certainly never expected that this demand would be urged, and therefore had never advised
your Majesty as to what was to be done in such a case. Lord Melbourne strongly advises your
Majesty to hear what the Duke of Wellington and Sir Robert Peel urge, but to take time before
you come to a peremptory and final decision. This is a matter of so much importance, and may
have such grave results, that any advice which Lord Melbourne could give would be of little
importance unless it coincided with the opinions of others, and particularly of all those who
were and intend still [to] continue to be his colleagues.

It will depend upon their determination whether your Majesty is to be supported or not. The
best course will perhaps be that you should hear Sir Robert Peel's determination, say nothing,
but send for Lord Melbourne, and lay the matter before him. Lord Melbourne will then summon
a Cabinet to consider of it.

[Pageheading: THE LADIES OF THE BEDCHAMBER]

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

9th May 1839.

At half-past six came Lord Melbourne and stayed with me till ten minutes past seven.

[Pageheading: THE LADIES]

I then began by giving him a detailed account of the whole proceeding, which I shall state
here as briefly as possible. I first again related what took place in the two first interviews,
and when I said that the Duke said he had assisted my Government often very much, Lord Melbourne
said: "Well, that is true enough, but the Duke did all he could about this vote." "Well, then,"
I said, "when Sir Robert Peel came this morning, he began first about the Ministry. I consented,
though I said I might have my personal feelings about Lord Lyndhurst and Lord Aberdeen, but
that I would suppress every personal feeling and be quite fair. I then repeated that I wished
to retain about me those who were not in Parliament, and Sir Robert pretended that I had the
preceding day expressed a wish to keep about me those who were in Parliament. I mentioned my
wish to have Lord Liverpool, to which Sir Robert readily acceded, saying he would offer him
the place of Lord Steward, or of Lord in Waiting. He then suggested my having Lord Ashley,[36]
which I said I should like, as Treasurer or Comptroller. Soon after this Sir Robert said: 'Now,
about the Ladies,' upon which I said I could not give up any of my Ladies, and never had imagined
such a thing. He asked if I meant to retain all. 'All,' I said. 'The Mistress of the Robes
and the Ladies of the Bedchamber?' I replied, 'All,'--for he said they were the wives of the
opponents of the Government, mentioning Lady Normanby[37] in particular as one of the late
Ministers' wives. I said that would not interfere; that I never talked politics with them,
and that they were related, many of them, to Tories, and I enumerated those of my Bedchamber
women and Maids of Honour; upon which he said he did not mean all the Bedchamber women and
all the Maids of Honour, he meant the Mistress of the Robes and the Ladies of the Bedchamber;
to which I replied they were of more consequence than the others, and that I could not consent,
and that it had never been done before. He said I was a Queen Regnant, and that made the difference.
'Not here,' I said--and I maintained my right. Sir Robert then urged it upon public grounds
only, but I said here I could not consent. He then begged to be allowed to consult with the
Duke upon such an important matter. I expressed a wish also to see the Duke, if Sir Robert
approved, which he said he did, and that he would return with the Duke, if I would then be
prepared for the decision, which I said I would. Well," I continued, "the Duke and Sir Robert
returned soon, and I first saw the Duke, who talked first of his being ready to take the post
of Secretary for Foreign Affairs, which I had pressed Peel to urge on him (the Duke having
first wished to be in the Cabinet, without accepting office), and the Duke said, 'I am able
to do anything,' for I asked him if it would not be too much for him. Then I told him that
I had been very well satisfied with Sir Robert yesterday, and asked the Duke if Sir Robert
had told him what had passed about the Ladies. He said he had, and then I repeated all my arguments,
and the Duke his; but the Duke and Sir Robert differed considerably on two points. The Duke
said the opinions of the Ladies were nothing, but it was the principle, whether the Minister
could remove the Ladies or not, and that he (the Duke) had understood it was stated in the
Civil List Bill, 'that the Ladies were instead of the Lords,' which is quite false, and I told
the Duke that there were not twelve Lords, as the expense with the Ladies would have been too
great." Lord Melbourne said: "There you had the better of him, and what did he say?" "Not much,"
I replied. I repeated many of my arguments, all which pleased Lord Melbourne, and which he
agreed to, amongst others, that I said to the Duke, Was Sir Robert so weak that even the Ladies
must be of his opinion? The Duke denied that. The Duke then took my decision to Sir Robert,
who was waiting in the next room; after a few minutes Sir Robert returned. After stopping a
few minutes, as I have already stated, Sir Robert went to see his colleagues, and returned
at five: said he had consulted with those who were to have been his colleagues, and that they
agreed that, with the probability of being beat the first night about the Speaker, and beginning
with a Minority in the House of Commons, that unless there was some (all the Officers of State
and Lords I gave up) demonstration of my confidence, and if I retained all my Ladies this would
not be, "they agreed unanimously they could not go on." I replied I would reflect, that I felt
certain I should not change my mind, but that I should do nothing in a hurry, and would write
him my decision either that evening or the next morning. He said, meanwhile, he would suspend
all further proceedings.

    [Footnote 36: Afterwards Earl of Shaftesbury, the well-known
    Philanthropist.]

    [Footnote 37: J. W. Croker wrote to the King of Hanover:--

    "11th May 1839.

    "... This is the sum of the whole affair. Sir R. Peel could
    not admit that broad principle that all were to remain.
    Lady Normanby (whom the Queen particularly wishes for), for
    instance, the wife of the very Minister whose measures have
    been the cause of the change, two sisters of Lord Morpeth, the
    sisters-in-law of Lord John Russell, the daughter of the Privy
    Seal and the Chancellor of the Exchequer....

    "Her Majesty's ball last night was, I am told, rather dull,
    though she herself seemed in high spirits, as if she were
    pleased at retaining her Ministers. She has a great concert on
    the 13th, but to both, as I hear, the invitations have been on
    a very exclusive principle, no Tories being invited who could
    on any pretence be left out. These are small matters, but
    everything tends to create a public impression that Her
    Majesty takes a personal and strong interest in the Whigs--a
    new ingredient of difficulty."--Croker Papers, II. 347.]

I also told Lord Melbourne that I feared I had embarrassed the Government; that I acted quite
alone. Lord Melbourne saw, and said I could not do otherwise. "I must summon the Cabinet,"
said Lord Melbourne, at half-past nine. "It may have very serious consequences. If we can't
go on with this House of Commons, we may have to dissolve Parliament, and we don't know if
we may get as good a House of Commons." I begged him to come, and he said: "I'll come if it
is in any time--if it's twelve; but if it's one or two, I'll write."

After dinner (as usual with the Household) I went to my room, and sat up till a quarter past
two. At a quarter to two I received the following letter from Lord Melbourne, written at one
o'clock:--

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S ULTIMATUM]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

10th May 1839 (1 A.M.).

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 10th May 1839.

The Queen wrote the letter before she went to bed, and sent it at nine this morning; she has
received no answer, and concludes she will receive none, as Sir Robert told the Queen if the
Ladies were not removed, his party would fall directly, and could not go on, and that he only
awaited the Queen's decision. The Queen therefore wishes to see Lord Melbourne about half-past
twelve or one, if that would do.

The Queen fears Lord Melbourne has much trouble in consequence of all this; but the Queen was
fully prepared, and fully intended to give these people a fair trial, though she always told
Lord Melbourne she knew they couldn't stand; and she must rejoice at having got out of the
hands of people who would have sacrificed every personal feeling and instinct of the Queen's
to their bad party purposes.

How is Lord Melbourne this morning?

[Pageheading: AN ANXIOUS WEEK]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 10th May 1839.

Half-past one will do as well as one; any hour will do that Lord Melbourne likes, for the Queen
will not go out.

There is no answer from Peel.

The Queen is wonderfully well, considering all the fatigue of yesterday, and not getting to
bed till near half-past two, which is somewhat of a fatigue for to-night when the Queen must
be very late. Really all these Fêtes in the midst of such very serious and anxious business
are quite overwhelming.

The Queen forgot to ask Lord Melbourne if he thought there would be any harm in her writing
to the Duke of Cambridge that she really was fearful of fatiguing herself, if she went out
to a party at Gloucester House on Tuesday, an Ancient Concert on Wednesday, and a ball at Northumberland
House on Thursday, considering how much she had to do these last four days. If she went to
the Ancient Concert on Wednesday, having besides a concert of her own here on Monday, it would
be four nights of fatigue, really exhausted as the Queen is.

But if Lord Melbourne thinks that as there are only to be English singers at the Ancient Concert,
she ought to go, she could go there for one act; but she would much rather, if possible, get
out of it, for it is a fatiguing time....

As the negotiations with the Tories are quite at an end, and Lord Melbourne has been here,
the Queen hopes Lord Melbourne will not object to dining with her on Sunday?

[Pageheading: RESIGNATION OF PEEL]

Sir Robert Peel to Queen Victoria.

He trusts he may be permitted at the same time to express to your Majesty his grateful acknowledgments
for the distinction which your Majesty conferred upon him by requiring his advice and assistance
in the attempt to form an Administration, and his earnest prayers that whatever arrangements
your Majesty may be enabled to make for that purpose may be most conducive to your Majesty's
personal comfort and happiness, and to the promotion of the public welfare.

    [Footnote 40: Charles Cecil Cope Jenkinson, third Earl,
    1784-1851, became Lord Steward in 1841.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S JOURNAL]

Extract from the Queen's Journal.

Friday, 10th May 1839.

Lord Melbourne came to me at two and stayed with me till ten minutes to three. I placed in
his hands Sir Robert Peel's answer, which he read. He started at one part where he (Sir Robert)
says, "some changes"--but some or all, I said, was the same; and Lord Melbourne said, "I must
submit this to the Cabinet." Lord Melbourne showed me a letter from Lord Grey about it--a good
deal alarmed, thinking I was right, and yet half doubtful; one from Spring Rice, dreadfully
frightened, and wishing the Whig ladies should resign; and one from Lord Lansdowne wishing
to state that the ladies would have resigned. Lord Melbourne had also seen the Duke of Richmond,
and Lord Melbourne said we might be beat; I said I never would yield, and would never apply
to Peel again. Lord Melbourne said, "You are for standing out, then?" I said, "Certainly."
I asked how the Cabinet felt. "John Russell, strongly for standing out," he said; "Duncannon,
very much so; Holland, Lord Minto, Hobhouse, and the Chancellor, all for standing out; Poulett
Thomson too, and Normanby also; S. Rice and Howick alarmed."

[Pageheading: CABINET MINUTE]

CABINET MINUTE.

Present.

  The LORD CHANCELLOR.
  The LORD PRESIDENT.
  The LORD PRIVY SEAL.
  VISCOUNT MELBOURNE.
  The MARQUIS OF NORMANBY.
  The EARL OF MINTO.
  The CHANCELLOR OF THE DUCHY OF LANCASTER.
  The LORD JOHN RUSSELL.
  The VISCOUNT PALMERSTON.
  The VISCOUNT HOWICK.
  The VISCOUNT MORPETH.
  Sir JOHN HOBHOUSE, Bart.
  The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER.
  Mr. POULETT THOMSON.

Viscount Howick concurs in the opinion expressed in the foregoing Minute that the removal of
the Ladies of Her Majesty's Household ought not to form part of the arrangements consequent
upon a change of Administration, and shares in the readiness his colleagues have declared to
support Her Majesty in acting upon this opinion; but he thinks it his duty to state his conviction
that the immediate resumption of their offices by Her Majesty's Confidential Servants is not
the mode in which their support can be most effectively afforded and is not calculated to promote
the good of Her Majesty's service.

He conceives that before it is determined that the present Administration should be continued,
further explanation should be sought with Sir Robert Peel, by which it is not impossible that
his concession to Her Majesty's just objection to the removal of the Ladies of her Household
might have been obtained, while the endeavour to arrive at this result, even though unsuccessful,
would at all events tend to secure additional support to Her Majesty's present Servants, and
thus to enable them to surmount those difficulties, which have recently compelled them humbly
to tender their resignations to Her Majesty, and which he fears will be found not to have been
diminished by the course it has now been determined to pursue.

In humbly submitting this opinion to Her Majesty, Viscount Howick begs permission to add that
he nevertheless acquiesces in the determination of his colleagues, and will render them the
best assistance in his power in their endeavour to carry on Her Majesty's service.

[Pageheading: MELBOURNE RESUMES OFFICE]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 11th May 1839.

The Queen is very anxious to hear that Lord Melbourne has not suffered from the ball last night,
as it was very hot at first. The beginning was rather dull and heavy, but after supper it got
very animated, and we kept it up till a quarter past three; the Queen enjoyed herself very
much and isn't at all tired; she felt much the kindness of many of her kind friends, who are
her only real friends. Lady Cowper and Lord and Lady Minto, the Duchess of Somerset, and Lord
Anglesey were particularly kind. On the other hand, there were some gloomy faces to be seen,
and the Duchess of Gloucester was very cross.

The Queen is ashamed to say it, but she has forgotten when she appointed the Judge Advocate;
when will the Cabinet be over?

The Queen danced the first and the last dance with the Grand Duke,[42] made him sit near her,
and tried to be very civil to him, and I think we are great friends already and get on very
well; I like him exceedingly.

    [Footnote 42: The Hereditary Grand Duke of Russia, afterwards
    the Emperor Alexander II.]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 12th May 1839.

The Queen anxiously hopes Lord Melbourne is quite well this morning, and has not suffered from
the dinner at Pozzo's.

The Queen wishes to know if she ought to say anything to the Duchess, of the noble manner in
which her Government mean to stand by her? The account in the Observer of the whole proceeding
is the most correct both as to details and facts, that the Queen has yet seen; were they told
what to put in? There was considerable applause when the Queen entered the Theatre, which she,
however, thought best and most delicate not to encourage, and she was cheered when she drove
up to the Theatre and got out, which she never is in general.

The Grand Duke came and sat with the Queen in her box, for at least half an hour last night--and
the Queen asked him if he knew exactly what had happened, which he said he did not--and the
Queen accordingly gave him an account of what passed, and he was shocked at Sir Robert Peel's
proposal, thought his resignation on that account absurd, and was delighted at the continuance
in office of my present Government.

The Queen supposes and fears that Lord Melbourne dines with the Lansdownes to-morrow, but she
wishes to know if Wednesday, Saturday, and Sunday would suit him?

Lord Melbourne must not forget the List of our supporters in the House of Commons, which the
Queen is very anxious to have as soon as possible. If Lord Melbourne can dine here to-morrow
the Queen would be glad, of course.

[Pageheading: LORD JOHN RUSSELL'S OPINION]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

Sir Robert Peel made a skilful, and not unfair statement. He, however, spoke only of his intention
of changing some of the Ladies of the Bedchamber. But he did not say that he had made this
intention clear to your Majesty; only that he had so arranged the matter with his political
friends. The popular impression is greatly in favour of the course pursued by your Majesty.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

14th May 1839.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and is most sorry to hear that your
Majesty does not feel well. It is very natural that your Majesty does not. Lord Melbourne does
not believe that there was anything wanting in your Majesty's manner yesterday evening,[43]
but depend upon it, if there was, every allowance would be made for the fatigue and anxiety
which your Majesty has gone through, and for the painful and embarrassing situation in which
your Majesty is still placed.

Lord Melbourne will wait upon your Majesty at two, and will have the honour of conversing with
your Majesty upon Peel's speech.

    [Footnote 43: At the State Concert.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S VIEW]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 14th May 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I begin to think you have forgotten me, and you will think I have forgotten
you, but I am certain you will have guessed the cause of my silence. How much has taken place
since Monday the 7th to yesterday the 13th. You will have easily imagined how dreadful the
resignation of my Government--and particularly of that truly inestimable and excellent man,
Lord Melbourne--was for me, and you will have felt for me! What I suffered I cannot describe!
To have to take people whom I should have no confidence in, ... was most painful and disagreeable;
but I felt I must do it, and made up my mind to it--nobly advised and supported by Lord Melbourne,
whose character seems to me still more perfect and noble since I have gone through all this.

I sent for the Duke of Wellington, who referred me to Peel, whom I accordingly saw.

Everything fair and just I assented to, even to having Lord Lyndhurst as Chancellor, and Sir
H. Hardinge and Lord Ellenborough in the Cabinet; I insisted upon the Duke in the Foreign Office,
instead of Lord Aberdeen.... All this I granted, as also to give up all the Officers of State
and all those of my Household who are in Parliament.

When to my utter astonishment he asked me to change my Ladies--my principal Ladies!--this I
of course refused; and he upon this resigned, saying, as he felt he should be beat the very
first night upon the Speaker, and having to begin with a minority, that unless he had this
demonstration of my confidence he could not go on!

You will easily imagine that I firmly resisted this attack upon my power, from these people
who pride themselves upon upholding the prerogative! I acted quite alone, but I have been,
and shall be, supported by my country, who are very enthusiastic about it, and loudly cheered
me on going to church on Sunday. My Government have nobly stood by me, and have resumed their
posts, strengthened by the feelings of the country....

Pray tell my dearest Aunt that I really cannot write to her to-day, for you have no conception
of what I have to do, for there are balls, concerts, and dinners all going on besides. Adieu!
my beloved Uncle. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: APPROVAL OF KING LEOPOLD]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 17th May 1839.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I feel deeply grateful for your very kind and interesting letter, which
reached me yesterday, inclusive of the papers.

You have passed a time of great agitation and difficulty, which will, however, contribute to
enlarge the circle of your experience. I approve very highly of the whole mode in which you
proceeded; you acted with great good faith and fairness, and when finally propositions were
made which you considered you could not submit to, you were very right to resist them. The
march of the whole affair is very clear and fair, and does you great credit.... Peel in making
his demand misjudged you; he remembered George IV., and even the late King, and dreamt of Court
influence of people near the Sovereign. You have the great merit, for which you cannot be too
much praised, of being extremely honest and honourable in your dealings. If you had kept Peel,
you would have acted honestly by him, without any Lady's having a chance of doing him a bad
turn. When he asked the measure as an expression of your great confidence in him, it was not
fair, because you had not wished to take him; he was forced upon you, and therefore, even if
you had granted his request, nobody would have seen in it a proof of your confidence in him,
but rather a sacrifice to a far-stretched pretence.

Besides, that he was to have encountered difficulties as a Minister was partly the consequence
of the policy of his party, and you were not bound to give him any assistance beyond what he
had a right to ask as a Minister. I was sure that Lord Melbourne would give you both the fairest
and the most honourable advice in this painful crisis. He was kind enough last year to speak
to me on the subject, and I could but approve what he said on the subject. Altogether, keeping
now your old Ministers, you will have reason to congratulate yourself on the result; it is
likely to strengthen them, by showing the Radicals what may be the consequences.

Rumour spoke of their wishing to add some Radicals to the Cabinet; I don't see that they could
improve the Ministry by it, which is perfectly well composed as it is at present, and new elements
often have a dissolving effect. It was very kind of you to have explained everything so clearly
to me, but I deserve it for the great interest I take in all that concerns you....

[Pageheading: A SMALL LIBERAL MAJORITY]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

Viscount Melbourne will have acquainted your Majesty with the result of the Cabinet of yesterday.
It appears to Lord John Russell that the Liberal party, with some explanation, will be satisfied
with the state of things for the present, and that the great difficulties which attend the
complete union of the majority will be deferred till the commencement of next Session. It is
always well to have some breathing-time.

    [Footnote 44: The Jamaica Bill for the temporary suspension of
    the Constitution.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

Combined with the division on the Speakership,[45] it shows that the Liberal party have still
a clear though small majority in the House of Commons, and that it may probably not be necessary
to resort to a dissolution. Indeed, such a measure in present circumstances would be of very
doubtful issue.

Lord John Russell stated last night that he would not divide on the Canada resolutions, but
move for leave to bring in a Bill.

    [Footnote 45: Mr Shaw Lefevre was elected by 317 against 299
    for Mr Goulburn.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

He moved a resolution in favour of a penny postage, which Sir Robert Peel declared it to be
his intention to oppose on the report. This will be on Friday next. This seems a mistake on
the part of the Opposition.[46]

    [Footnote 46: The penny postage scheme came into operation on
    10th January 1840.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND PRINCE ALBERT]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 12th July 1839. (20 minutes to 12.)

The Queen is really quite shocked to see that her box was taken to Lord Melbourne to Park Lane,
and she fears (by the manner in which Lord Melbourne's note is written) that he was at dinner
at Lady Elizabeth H. Vere's when he got it. The Queen had imagined that the House of Lords
was still sitting, and therefore desired them to take the box there, but never had intended
it should follow him to dinner; she begs Lord Melbourne to excuse this mistake which must have
appeared so strange.

Did the dinner go off well at Lady Elizabeth H. Vere's, and were there many people there? Did
Lord Melbourne go to Lady R. Grosvenor's party or did he go home?

The Queen hopes Lord Melbourne is quite well and not tired.

Monday at two o'clock for the Judge Advocate.

The Queen hears Lady Sandwich is very much delighted at her appointment.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 15th July 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I have no letter from you, but hope to get one soon....

I shall send this letter by a courier, as I am anxious to put several questions to you, and
to mention some feelings of mine upon the subject of my cousins' visit, which I am desirous
should not transpire. First of all, I wish to know if Albert is aware of the wish of his Father
and you relative to me? Secondly, if he knows that there is no engagement between us? I am
anxious that you should acquaint Uncle Ernest, that if I should like Albert, that I can make
no final promise this year, for, at the very earliest, any such event could not take place
till two or three years hence. For, independent of my youth, and my great repugnance to change
my present position, there is no anxiety evinced in this country for such an event, and it
would be more prudent, in my opinion, to wait till some such demonstration is shown,--else
if it were hurried it might produce discontent.

Though all the reports of Albert are most favourable, and though I have little doubt I shall
like him, still one can never answer beforehand for feelings, and I may not have the feeling
for him which is requisite to ensure happiness. I may like him as a friend, and as a cousin,
and as a brother, but not more; and should this be the case (which is not likely), I am very
anxious that it should be understood that I am not guilty of any breach of promise, for I never
gave any. I am sure you will understand my anxiety, for I should otherwise, were this not completely
understood, be in a very painful position. As it is, I am rather nervous about the visit, for
the subject I allude to is not an agreeable one to me. I have little else to say, dear Uncle,
as I have now spoken openly to you, which I was very, very anxious to do.

You will be at Paris, I suppose, when you get this letter, and I therefore beg you to lay me
at the feet of the whole family, and to believe me ever your very devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 20th July 1839.

The Queen anxiously hopes Lord Melbourne has slept well, and has not suffered from last night.
It was very wrong of him not to wish the Queen good-night, as she expected he would in so small
a party, for she saw that he did not go away immediately after supper. When did he get home?
It was great pleasure to the Queen that he came last night. We kept up the dancing till past
three, and the Queen was much amused, and slept soundly from four till half-past ten, which
she is ashamed of. She is quite well, but has got a good deal of cold in her head; she hopes
to see Lord Melbourne at two.

[Pageheading: THE DUCHESS OF BRAGANZA]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 25th July 1839.

The Queen has seen the Duchess of Braganza,[47] who, though a good deal changed, is still handsome,
and very amiable; she seemed so glad, too, to see the Queen again. The child[48] is grown a
dear fine girl. Lord Palmerston thought it right that I should ask her to dinner also on Saturday
and take her to the Opera; and on Sunday, as she came on purpose to see the Queen, and goes
on Monday.

On Sunday (besides Lord Melbourne) the Queen proposes asking Palmerston, Normanby, Uxbridge,
and Surrey, and no one else except the Duchess's suite. The Queen hopes Lord Melbourne will
approve of this. He will not forget to let the Queen know how the debate is going on, at about
nine or ten, as she will be curious to know. She trusts he will not suffer from the fatigue
of to-night.

    [Footnote 47: The step-mother of Donna Maria. Pedro I. assumed
    the title of Duke of Braganza after his abdication.]

    [Footnote 48: Probably the princess known as "Chica,"
    afterwards Princesse de Joinville.]

[Pageheading: SYRIAN AFFAIRS]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

ST CLOUD, 26th July 1839.

... Everything is pretty quiet, and the grâce accordée à Barbès[49] has put down the rage against
the King personally, at least for some little time. The affairs of the Orient interest a good
deal. I think that it is better the Porte should be on a favourable footing with Mehemet Ali
than if that gentleman had pushed on in arms, as it will put the casus foederis out of the
question, and the Turks will not call in the assistance of the Russians. Whoever pushed the
late Sultan into this war has done an act of great folly, as it could only bring the Porte
into jeopardy.

    [Footnote 49: Armand Barbès, the leader of a fatal riot
    in Paris, was sentenced to death, a sentence afterwards
    remitted.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

3rd August 1839.

Lord Melbourne will wait upon your Majesty at a quarter before five, if possible, but there
is much to discuss at the Cabinet. The Caspian Pasha has taken the Turkish fleet to Alexandria,[50]
and Mehemet Ali says that he will not give it up to the Sultan until he dismisses the Grand
Vizier, and acknowledges the hereditary right of the Pasha to the countries which he at present
governs. This is to make the Sultan his subject and his vassal.

The accounts from Birmingham are by no means good.[51] There has been no disturbance of the
peace, but the general disposition is both violent and determined.

    [Footnote 50: The Viceroy of Egypt had revolted against the
    Porte, and on 8th June the Sultan purported to deprive him and
    Ibrahim, his son, of their dignities. War was declared,
    and the Turkish fleet despatched to Syria. But the Admiral
    treacherously sailed to Alexandria, and the Ottoman troops,
    under Hafiz, who had succeeded Mehemet Ali in the Government
    of Egypt, were utterly routed. With the traitorous conduct
    of the Turkish admiral, Disraeli, a few years later, compared
    Peel's conversion to Free Trade.]

    [Footnote 51: Chartist riots were very frequent at the time.
    See Introductory Note, ante, p. 141. (to Ch. VIII)]

[Pageheading: THE OPERA]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 4th August 1839.

The Queen hopes Lord Melbourne is quite well this morning, and did not sit up working very
late last night; the Queen met him twice yesterday in the Park, and really wondered how anybody
could ride, for she came home much hotter than she went out, and thought the air quite like
as if it came out of an oven; to-day we can breathe again. It was intensely hot at the Opera;
the Queen-Dowager visited the Queen in her box, as did also the young Grand Duke of Weimar,
who is just returned from Scotland, and whom the Queen has asked to come after dinner to-morrow.
The Queen has not asked the Duke of Sussex to come after dinner to-morrow, as she thought he
would be bored by such a sort of party; does not Lord Melbourne think so? and she means to
ask him to dinner soon.

The Queen has not asked Lord Melbourne about any days this week besides to-morrow (when she
trusts he may be able to come, but she does not know what there is in the House) and Wednesday;
but perhaps Lord Melbourne will consent to leave Thursday and Friday open in case he should
be able to come one or both of those days. Lord Melbourne will forgive the Queen's troubling
him again, but she felt a little puzzled by his letter; she sent him a card for Wednesday without
previously asking him, as she thought that would suit him, and hopes it does?

The Queen will follow Lord Melbourne's advice respecting the Duke of Sussex.

We have just returned from hearing not only a very long, and very bad, but also, a very ludicrous,
sermon.

The heat is somewhat less, but the Queen is undecided as to driving out or not.

[Pageheading: KING LOUIS PHILIPPE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 9th August 1839.

... I am sorry that you are less pleased with the old Duke, but party spirit is in England
an incurable disease. These last two years he had rendered essential service to the present
Administration; perhaps he has been soured by last summer's events. It was my intention to
have answered your questions sooner, but from Paris I had not the means. Now the time draws
so near when I hope to have the happiness of seeing you, that I think it will be better to
treat the matter verbally, the more so as my most beloved Majesty is easily displeased with
what may be written with the best intention, instead that in conversation the immediate reply
renders any misunderstanding, however small, very difficult; and as I do not wish to have any
great or small with you, and see no occasion for it, I will give my answer de vive voix.

Now comes a subject which will astonish you. I am charged de sonder your will and pleasure
on the following subject. The King my father-in-law goes to Eu, where he hopes to remain till
the 5th or 6th of September. Having at his disposition some very fine steamers, his great wish
would be to go over to Brighton, just for one afternoon and night, to offer you his respects
in person. He would in such a case bring with him the Queen, my Aunt, Clémentine,[52] Aumale
and Montpensier. The first step in this business is to know what your pleasure is, and to learn
that very frankly, as he perfectly understands that, however short such a visit, it must be
submitted to the advice even of some of your Ministers. What renders the thing very difficult,
in my opinion, is that in a country like France, and with so many Ministerial difficulties,
the King to the last hour will hardly know if he can undertake the thing. As, however, the
first object is to know your will, he begged me to ascertain that, and to tell you that if
you had the smallest objection you would not be carried away by the apprehension of hurting
him by telling me honestly that you did not see how the affair could be arranged, but to speak
out, that he knew enough how often objections may arise, and that even with himself he could
only be sure of the thing at the last moment.

    [Footnote 52: Who afterwards married Queen Victoria's cousin,
    Prince Augustus (Gusti) of Coburg.]

[Pageheading: THE NEW SULTAN]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 19th August 1839.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and in submitting the accompanying
private letter from the Earl Granville[53] begs to state that neither Viscount Melbourne nor
Viscount Palmerston are of opinion that it would be expedient that your Majesty should send
an Ambassador Extraordinary to compliment the young Sultan[54] on his accession. The circumstances
connected with his accession are indeed fitter matter for condolence than for congratulation,
and he would probably be better pleased by the restoration of his fleet than by the arrival
of Ambassadors Extraordinary. Moreover, it has not been customary for the Sovereign of England
to send such missions upon the accession of Sultans.

    [Footnote 53: The first Earl Granville (1773-1846), formerly
    Ambassador Extraordinary to the Russian Court, at this time
    Ambassador at Paris.]

    [Footnote 54: Abdul Medjid, a lad of sixteen, succeeded the
    Sultan Mahmoud. The majority of the Powers agreed to place him
    under the protection of Europe, and to warn Mehemet Ali
    that the matter was for Europe, not him, to decide. France,
    however, wished to support Mehemet, and direct the Alliance
    against Russia. But Nicholas I. of Russia was prepared to
    support England as far as regarded the affairs of Turkey and
    Egypt, and to close the Dardanelles and Bosphorus to warships
    of all nations, it being stipulated that Russian ships of war
    only were to pass the Bosphorus, as acting under the mandate
    of Europe in defence of the Turks. See further, Introductory
    Notes for 1839 and 1840. (to Ch. VIII and Ch. IX)]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

OSTENDE, 24th August 1839.

... The King's intention would be to leave Eu in the evening, let us say at eight or nine o'clock,
and to land, perhaps at ten or eleven, at Brighton on the following morning. He would have
the honour of dining with you, and would re-embark in the evening of the same day, so as to
be back on the following morning at Eu. He will therefore, as you see, not sleep in England.

If you cannot give any pied-à-terre in the Palace for these few hours, they will remain in
an hotel. But I must say that as the King and Queen put themselves to some inconvenience in
coming to see you, it would be rather desirable to offer them rooms in the Palace, which I
think might be easily managed. As far as we are concerned, it does not matter if we are housed
in an hotel or where we bivouac. I will charge Van de Weyer to take rooms for us somewhere....

Do not imagine that I have done the least to bring this about for my own satisfaction, which
is very limited in this business, but the King wished much to see you once, and so did the
Queen, who abhors sailing more than anybody, and this is perhaps the only opportunity which
may ever offer of doing it, even with some political benefit, as it certainly is desirable
that it should appear that the two maritime Powers are on good terms.... And now, God bless
you! Ever, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: LOUIS PHILIPPE'S VISIT]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

OSTENDE, 25th August 1839. (La St Louis.)

MY DEAR VICTORIA,--To keep up the fire of letters, I write again, having received this morning
interesting news. As I must forward this letter by Calais, and know not who may read it in
these times of curiosity, I am forced to be guarded; but the news are as follows, of the 23rd--curious
coincidence, as your letter was also of that date--that, the moment approaching, many and serious
difficulties arise, and that the expedition was considered imprudent by some people, that,
besides, the presence would perhaps be required, before the possible departure, at the usual
home of the person interested, that therefore for the present it would perhaps be best to give
it up. I must say that I am most happy that matters have come to this pass, because it would
have been next to impossible to arrange affairs properly in proper time. You may now consider
everything as over, and settle your plans without reference to it....

[Pageheading: THE VISIT POSTPONED]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 26th August 1839.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I had already written you a letter when I received your two very kind ones,
and I shall therefore not send my first. My friendship for the dear King and Queen makes me,
as you may easily understand, wish most exceedingly to see them and to make the acquaintance
of the Queen and all the family. And I feel the immense kindness of them all in wishing to
see me, and in coming over for only a few hours. Politically it would be wished by us all,
and the only difficulty I see is the following, which is, that I do not feel quite equal to
going to Brighton and receiving them all, so soon after the Prorogation.[55] I do not feel
well; I feel thoroughly exhausted from all that I have gone through this Session, and am quite
knocked up by the two little trips I made to Windsor. This makes me fear, uncertain as it all
is, with such a pressure of business, so many affairs, and with so much going on, that I should
be unequal to the journey and the whole thing. This, and this alone, could make me express
a wish that this most kind visit should take place next year instead of this year. I feel such
regret really in saying this--I should so wish to see them, and yet I feel I am not quite up
to it. You will understand me, dear Uncle, I am certain, as I know the anxiety you always express
for my health. For once I long to leave London, and shall do so on Friday. If you could be
at Windsor by the 4th, I should be delighted.

The dear Ferdinands, whom I all dearly love, will await you here. I have had so much to do
and so many people to see, that I feel quite confused, and have written shockingly, which you
must forgive. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 55: On 27th August.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S SPEECH]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 26 August 1839. (10 minutes to 12.)

The Queen has received both Lord Melbourne's notes; she was a good deal vexed at his not coming,
as she had begged him herself to do so, and as he wrote to say he would, and also as she thinks
it right and of importance that Lord Melbourne should be here at large dinners; the Queen insists
upon his coming to dinner to-morrow, and also begs him to do so on Wednesday, her two last
nights in town, and as she will probably not see him at all for two days when she goes on Friday;
the Queen would wish to see Lord Melbourne after the Prorogation to-morrow at any hour before
five he likes best.

The Queen has been a good deal annoyed this evening at Normanby's telling her that John Russell
was coming to town next Monday in order to change with him.[56] Lord Melbourne never told the
Queen that this was definitely settled; on the contrary, he said it would "remain in our hands,"
to use Lord Melbourne's own words, and only be settled during the Vacation; considering all
that the Queen has said on the subject to Lord Melbourne, and considering the great confidence
the Queen has in Lord Melbourne, she thinks and feels he ought to have told her that this was
settled, and not let the Queen be the last person to hear what is settled and done in her own
name; Lord Melbourne will excuse the Queen's being a little eager about this, but it has happened
once before that she learnt from other people what had been decided on.

The Queen has such unlimited confidence in Lord Melbourne that she knows all that he does is
right, but she cannot help being a little vexed at not being told things, when she is accustomed
to great confidence on Lord Melbourne's part.

Lord Melbourne may rely on the Queen's secrecy respecting Howick; he knows the Queen always
keeps things to herself; Normanby hinted at his wish to get rid of Howick.

The Speech is safely arrived, has been read over twice, and shall not be forgotten to-morrow;
the Queen wishes they would not use such thin and slippery paper--for it is difficult to hold
with nervous, and, as Lord Melbourne knows, shaking hands. The Queen trusts Lord Melbourne
will be less tired in the morning.

    [Footnote 56: See Introductory Note, ante, p. 141. (to Ch. VIII)]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

OSTENDE, 21st September 1839.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--Your delightful little letter has just arrived and went like an arrow
to my heart. Yes, my beloved Victoria! I do love you tenderly, and with all the power of affection
which is often found in characters who do not make much outward show of it. I love you for
yourself, and I love in you the dear child whose welfare I carefully watched. My great wish
is always that you should know that I am desirous of being useful to you, without hoping for
any other return than some little affection from your warm and kind heart. I am even so far
pleased that my eternal political affairs are settled, as it takes away the last possibility
of imagining that I may want something or other. I have all the honours that can be given,
and I am, politically speaking, very solidly established, more so than most Sovereigns in Europe.
The only political longing I still have is for the Orient, where I perhaps shall once end my
life, unlike the sun, rising in the West and setting in the East. I never press my services
on you, nor my councils, though I may say with some truth that from the extraordinary fate
which the higher Powers had ordained for me, my experience, both political and of private life,
is great. I am always ready to be useful to you when and where it may be, and I repeat it,
all I want in return is some little sincere affection from you....

And now I conclude for to-day, not without expressing again my satisfaction and pleasure at
having seen you yesterday morning with your dear honest face, looking so dear in your morning
attire. Our time was spent very satisfactorily, and only the weather crossed our wishes, and
to that one can submit when everything else is delightful.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 25th September 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--You will, I think, laugh when you get this letter, and will think I only mean
to employ you in stopping my relations at Brussels, but I think you will approve of my wish.
In the first place I don't think one can reckon on the Cousins arriving here on the 30th. Well,
all I want is that you should detain them one or two days longer, in order that they may arrive
here on Thursday, the 3rd, if possible early. My reason for this is as follows: a number of
the Ministers are coming down here on Monday to stay till Thursday, on affairs of great importance,
and as you know that people are always on the alert to make remarks, I think if all the Ministers
were to be down here when they arrive, people would say--it was to settle matters. At all events
it is better to avoid this. I think indeed a day or two at Brussels will do these young gentlemen
good, and they can be properly fitted out there for their visit. Ever yours devotedly,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 1st October 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I received your kind letter on Sunday, for which many thanks. The retard of
these young people puts me rather out, but of course cannot be helped. I had a letter from
Albert yesterday saying they could not set off, he thought, before the 6th. I think they don't
exhibit much empressement to come here, which rather shocks me.

I got a very nice letter from dear Alexander yesterday from Reinhardtsbrun;[57] he says Albert
is very much improved, but not taller than Augustus. His description of him is as follows:--"Albert,
I found, had become stronger and more handsome; still he has not grown much taller; he is of
about the same size as Augustus; he is a most pleasant, intelligent young man. I find, too,
that he has become more lively than he was, and that sits well on him, too." (Translation.)
I think you may like to hear this, as I know Alexander is a very correct observer of persons,
and his opinion may be relied upon. He adds that Albert plagues Leopold beyond measure.

I shall take care and send a gentleman and carriages to meet my cousins, either at Woolwich
or the Tower, at whichever place you inform me they land at. The sooner they come the better.
I have got the house full of Ministers. On Monday the Queen Dowager is coming to sleep here
for two nights; it is the first time, and will be a severe trial. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 57: A picturesque castle, about eight miles from
    Gotha.]

[Pageheading: A CHARM AGAINST EVIL]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 7th October 1839.

The Queen sends the little charm which she hopes may keep Lord Melbourne from all evil, and
which it will make her very happy if he will put [? it with] his keys. If the ring is too small
Lord Melbourne must send it back to her, and she will have it altered.

The Queen has made up her mind at length to ask Lady Clanricarde, as Lord Melbourne wishes
it so much. Shall Surrey invite her, or Lord Palmerston? and from Thursday to Friday?

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 8th October 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I have to thank you for three kind letters of the 1st, 4th, and 5th, the last
which I received yesterday. I received another letter from Alex. M. yesterday, since Ernest's
arrival, and he says that they have determined on setting off, so as to embark at Antwerp on
the 9th and be here after all on the 10th! I suppose you will have also heard. I shall therefore
(unless I hear from you to the contrary) send one of my equerries and two carriages to the
Tower on Thursday.

I am sorry to hear of the serious disturbances at Ghent; I trust it is all got under now. If
you should hear anything more of Roi Guillaume's[58] marriage, pray let me hear it, as it is
such an odd story. Old Alava, who was here for two nights last week, told me he knew Pauline
d'Oultremont many years ago, when she was young and very gay and pretty, but that he wonders
much at this marriage, as the King hates Catholics. Alava is rayonnant de bonheur.

I told Lord Melbourne of your alarms respecting the financial crisis, which we did not bring
on--those wild American speculations are the cause of it--and he desires me to assure you that
we will pursue as moderate and cautious a course as possible.

The Queen Dowager came here yesterday and stays till to-morrow; she is very cheerful and in
good spirits....

I must conclude in haste. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Many thanks for the two supplies of ortolans, which were delicious.

    [Footnote 58: William I., King of the Netherlands, was greatly
    attached to the Roman Catholic Countess d'Oultremont, and in
    October 1840, being sixty-seven, abdicated his Crown to marry
    her.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--... The dear cousins arrived at half-past seven on Thursday, after a very bad
and almost dangerous passage, but looking both very well, and much improved. Having no clothes,
they could not appear at dinner, but nevertheless débutéd after dinner in their négligé. Ernest
is grown quite handsome; Albert's beauty is most striking, and he so amiable and unaffected--in
short, very fascinating; he is excessively admired here. The Granvilles and Lord Clanricarde[59]
happened just to be here, but are gone again to-day. We rode out yesterday and danced after
dinner. The young men are very amiable, delightful companions, and I am very happy to have
them here; they are playing some Symphonies of Haydn under me at this very moment; they are
passionately fond of music.

In the way of news I have got nothing to tell you to-day. Everything is quiet here, and we
have no particular news from abroad. In Spain the Fueros[60] seem to give sad difficulty to
the Cortes.

Ever, my dearest Uncle, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 59: Ulick John, first Marquis of Clanricarde
    (1802-1874), Ambassador at St Petersburg, afterwards Lord
    Privy Seal.]

    [Footnote 60: Certain rights and privileges of the Basques.]

[Pageheading: A MOMENTOUS DECISION]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 15th October 1839. He seems to have a very great tact--a very necessary thing
in his position. These last few days have passed like a dream to me, and I am so much bewildered
by it all that I know hardly how to write; but I do feel very, very happy. My feelings are
a little changed, I must say, since last Spring, when I said I couldn't think of marrying for
three or four years; but seeing Albert has changed all this.

Pray, dearest Uncle, forward these two letters to Uncle Ernest (to whom I beg you will enjoin
strict secrecy, and explain these details, which I have not time to do) and to faithful Stockmar.

I think you might tell Louise of it, but none of her family. I should wish to keep the dear
young gentlemen here till the end of next month. Ernest's sincere pleasure gave me great delight.
He does so adore dearest Albert. Ever, dearest Uncle, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 16th October 1839.

Lord Melbourne will be ready to wait upon your Majesty at a little before one.

Lord Melbourne reads with great satisfaction your Majesty's expression of feeling, as your
Majesty's happiness must ever be one of Lord Melbourne's first objects and strongest interests.

[Pageheading: KING LEOPOLD'S SATISFACTION]

[Pageheading: AUSTRIA AND THE PORTE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

WIESBADEN, 24th October 1839.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--Nothing could have given me greater pleasure than your dear letter. In
your position, which may and will, perhaps, become in future even more difficult in a political
point of view, you could not exist without having a happy and an agreeable intérieur.

And I am much deceived--which I think I am not--or you will find in Albert just the very qualities
and dispositions which are indispensable for your happiness, and which will suit your own character,
temper, and mode of life. You say most amiably that you consider it a sacrifice on the part
of Albert. This is true in many points, because his position will be a difficult one; but much,
I may say all, will depend on your affection for him. If you love him, and are kind to him,
he will easily bear the burthen of the position; and there is a steadiness and at the same
time cheerfulness in his character which will facilitate this. I think your plans excellent.
If Parliament had been called at an unusual time it would make them uncomfortable, and if,
therefore, they receive the communication at the opening of the Session, it will be best. The
marriage, as you say, might then follow as closely as possible.

Lord Melbourne has shown himself the amiable and excellent man I always took him for. Another
man in his position, instead of your happiness, might have merely looked to his own personal
views and imaginary interests. Not so our good friend; he saw what was best for you, and I
feel it deeply to his praise.

Your keeping the cousins next month with you strikes me as a very good plan. It will even show
that you had sufficient opportunity of judging of Albert's character....

On the 22nd, Prince Metternich came to see me. He was very kind, and talked most confidentially
about political affairs, particularly the Oriental concerns.[62] M. de Brunnow had been with
him. The short of his views is this: he wishes that the Powers could be unanimous, as he sees
in this the best chance of avoiding measures of violence against the Pasha of Egypt, which
he considers dangerous, either as not sufficiently effective, or of a nature to bring on complications
most earnestly to be avoided, such as making use of Russian troops. Austria naturally would
like to bring about the best possible arrangement for the Porte, but it will adhere to any
arrangement or proposition which can be agreed upon by England and France. He is, however,
positive that Candia must be given back to the Porte, its position being too threatening, and
therefore constantly alarming the Porte. He made me write the import of our conversation to
King Louis Philippe, which I did send after him to Frankfort, where he was to forward it to
Paris. Perhaps you will have the goodness to communicate this political scrap to good Lord
Melbourne with my best regards. He spoke in praise of Lord Beauvale.[63] The Prince is better,
but grown very old and looking tired. It gave me great pleasure to see him again.

I drink the waters now four days, and can therefore not yet judge of their good or bad effects.
My palpitations are rather increased here; if my stupid heart will get diseased I shall soon
be departing for some other world. I would it could be soon then.

Till further orders I shall say nothing to your Mother, Charles, or Feodore.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 29th October 1839.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Your most kind and most welcome letter of the 24th arrived yesterday, and
gave me very, very great pleasure. I was sure you would be satisfied and pleased with our proceedings.

Before I proceed further, I wish just to mention one or two alterations in the plan of announcing
the event.

As Parliament has nothing whatever to say respecting the marriage, can neither approve nor
disapprove it (I mean in a manner which might affect it), it is now proposed that, as soon
as the cousins are gone (which they now intend to do on the 12th or 14th of November, as time
presses), I should assemble all the Privy Councillors and announce to them my intention....

Oh! dear Uncle, I do feel so happy! I do so adore Albert! he is quite an angel, and so very,
very kind to me, and seems so fond of me, which touches me much. I trust and hope I shall be
able to make him as happy as he ought to be! I cannot bear to part from him, for we spend such
happy, delightful hours together.

Poor Ernest has been suffering since Wednesday last with the jaundice, which is very distressing
and troublesome, though not alarming.... I love him dearly too, and look upon him quite as
a brother.

What you say about Lord Melbourne has given me great pleasure; it is very just and very true.
There are not many such honest kind friends to be found in this world. He desires me to say
that he is deeply sensible of your good opinion, and that he can have no other object than
that which he considers best to secure my happiness, which is closely connected with the well-being
of the country.

I am glad you saw Prince Metternich, and that you were satisfied with the interview.

I hope and trust you may derive much benefit from your stay at Wiesbaden. Pray name me to good
Stockmar, and believe me, always, your most devoted Niece and Child,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: CONGRATULATIONS]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 9th November 1839.

MY MOST BELOVED VICTORIA,--Your Uncle has already told you, I trust, with what feelings of
deep affection and gratitude I received the so interesting and important communication which
you permitted him to make to me; but I was longing for an opportunity to speak to you myself
of the great subject which fills now our hearts, and to tell you how very grateful I have been,
I am, and will ever be, for the confidence and trust which you so kindly placed in me. All
I can say is that you did full justice to my feelings, for nothing could interest more my heart
than your marriage, my most dearly loved Victoria, and I could not have heard even of that
of Clémentine with more anxious affection and sisterly love. I cannot really tell you with
words how deeply and strongly I was moved and affected by the great news itself, and by your
dear, unaffected, confiding, happy letter. When I received it I could do nothing but cry, and
say internally, "May God bless her now and ever!" Ah! may God bless you, my most beloved Victoria!
may He shower on you His best blessings, fulfil all your heart's wishes and hopes, and let
you enjoy for many, many years the happiness which the dearest ties of affection alone can
give, and which is the only real one, the only worthy of the name in this uncertain and transitory
world!

I have seen much of dear Albert two years ago, I have watched him, as you may well think, with
particular care, attention, and interest, and although he was very young then, I am well convinced
that he is not only fit for the situation which he is now called to fulfil, but, what is still
more important in my eyes, that he has all those qualities of the heart and the mind which
can give and ensure happiness. I think even that his disposition is particularly well calculated
to suit yours, and I am fully confident that you will be both happy together. What you tell
me of your fear of not being worthy of him, and able to make him sufficiently happy, is for
me but a proof more of it. Deep affection makes us always diffident and very humble. Those
that we love stand so high in our own esteem, and are in our opinion so much above us and all
others that we naturally feel unworthy of them and unequal to the task of making them happy:
but there is, I think, a mingled charm in this feeling, for although we regret not to be what
we should wish to be for them, feeling and acknowledging the superiority of those we love and
must always love and respect, is a great satisfaction, and an increasing and everlasting one.
You will feel it, I am sure, as well as I do....

You will excuse my blots and hurried scribbling when I will tell you that in order to profit
of the private messenger which goes to-morrow morning I write to you at ten in the evening,
a thing quite unusual for me, and even rather forbidden: but after having been deprived of
expending my heart for so many days, I could not not avail myself of the present opportunity.
When I write to you by the ordinary messenger I will continue to be silent; but I trust you
will permit me to say some time a word, when a safe opportunity presents itself, for my heart
is with you more than I can tell. I would that I could see you, when it could be, for an hour.
I remain, my most beloved Victoria, ever and ever your most affectionate

LOUISE.

[Pageheading: THE ANNOUNCEMENT]

Queen Victoria to the Duke of Sussex.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 11th November 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--The affection which you have shown me makes me feel certain that you will take
interest in an event which so nearly concerns the future happiness of my life; I cannot, therefore,
delay any longer to inform you of my intended marriage with my Cousin Albert, the merits of
whose character are so well known by all who are acquainted with him, that I need say no more
than that I feel as assured of my own happiness as I can be of anything in this world.

As it is not to be publicly known, I beg you not to mention it except to our own Family.

I hope you are well and enjoying yourself. Believe me, always, your affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.[64]

    [Footnote 64: Similar letters with slight variations were
    written to the Duke of Cambridge, the Princess Augusta, the
    Princess Sophia, the Duchess of Gloucester, the Princess
    Sophia Matilda, the King of Hanover, and the Princess
    Elizabeth (Landgravine of Hesse-Homburg).]

Queen Victoria to Queen Adelaide.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 14th November 1839. It was both my duty and my inclination to tell you of this
as soon as it was determined upon; but, as it is not to be yet publicly announced I beg you
not to mention it except to our own Family. I thank you much for your kind letter, and rejoice
to hear you have enjoyed yourself so much. Believe me, always, your very affectionate Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 18th November 1839.

The Queen just writes two lines to send Lord Melbourne the accompanying civil letter from the
Queen Dowager, and to give him an account of the visit of the Cambridges. They were all very
kind and civil, George grown but not embellished, and much less reserved with the Queen, and
evidently happy to be clear of me. He gave a very indifferent account of the King of Greece,
but a favourable one of the Queen.

The Duchess said she had expected the Queen would marry Albert, and was not surprised at the
event. They were very discreet and asked no questions, but described the Duchess of Gloucester
to be suffering much from the necessity of keeping the secret.

The weather cleared up, and the Queen has just returned from a walk. She hopes Lord Melbourne
got safe to London in spite of the wet and the water on the road; and she hopes he will take
great care of himself. She would be thankful if he would let her know to-morrow if he will
dine with her also on Thursday or not.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--Many thanks for your kind letter of the 5th, received last week. I am in a
great hurry, and therefore have only time to write to you a line to tell you, first, that on
the 15th I wrote to all the Royal Family announcing the event to them, and that they answered
all very kindly and civilly; the Duchess of Cambridge and Augusta, with the Duke and George,
came over on purpose to congratulate me yesterday; secondly, that the marriage is to be publicly
announced in an Open Council on the 23rd, at Buckingham Palace, where I am going to-morrow.
I return here after the Council on the 23rd. I am so happy to think I need not then conceal
my feelings any longer. I have also written to the King of Hanover and the Landgravine,[65]
and to all our relations abroad. I hope, dear Uncle, you will not have ill-treated my dearest
Albert! I am very anxious to hear from him from Wiesbaden. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 65: Princess Elizabeth (1770-1840), daughter of
    George III. and widow of the Landgrave Frederick Joseph Louis
    of Hesse-Homburg.]

[The following extracts of letters from the Queen to Prince Albert were written partly in English
and partly in German. The English portions are printed in italics, the German, translated,
in ordinary type. These letters are all written in terms of profound affection, which deepened
very shortly into complete and absolute devotion to the Prince.]

Queen Victoria to Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 21st November 1839.

... It is desired here that the matter should be declared at Coburg as soon as possible, and
immediately after that I shall send you the Order.[66]

Your rank will be settled just before you come over, as also your rank in the Army. Everything
will be very easily arranged. Lord Melbourne showed me yesterday the Declaration, which is
very simple and nice. I will send it you as soon as possible....

Lord Melbourne told me yesterday, that the whole Cabinet are strongly of opinion that you should
NOT be made a Peer. I will write that to Uncle....

    [Footnote 66: The Garter.]

[Pageheading: THE RELIGIOUS QUESTION]

22nd November 1839.

... Lord Melbourne has just been with me, and greatly wishes the Declaration to be made at
Coburg as soon as possible. He also desired me to ask you to see if you can ... a short History
of the House of Saxe-Coburg, who our direct ancestors were, and what part they took in the
Protestant, or rather Lutheran, religion; he wishes to hear this in order to make people here
know exactly who your ancestors are, for a few stupid people here try to say you are a Catholic,
but nobody will believe it. Send (it) as soon as possible; perhaps good Mr. Schenk would write
it out in English....

As there is nothing to be settled for me, we require no treaty of marriage; but if you should
require anything to be settled, the best will be to send it here. Respecting the succession,
in case Ernest should die without children, it would not do to stipulate now, but your second
son, if you had one, should reside at Coburg. That can easily be arranged if the thing should
happen hereafter, and the English would not like it to be arranged now....

[Pageheading: THE DECLARATION]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 23rd November 1839.

... Just arrived here, 5.30. Everything has gone off very well. The Council[67] was held at
two o'clock; more than a hundred persons were present, and there I had to read the Declaration.
It was rather an awful moment, to be obliged to announce this to so many people, many of whom
were quite strangers, but they told me I did it very well, and I felt so happy to do it.

Good Lord Melbourne was deeply moved about it, and Uxbridge likewise; it lasted only two or
three minutes. Everybody, they tell me, is very much pleased, and I wish you could have seen
the crowds of people who cheered me loudly as I left the Palace for Windsor. I am so happy
to-day! oh, if only you could be here! I wish that you were able to participate in all the
kindness which is shown to me. To-day I can only send you the Declaration.[68] The description
of the whole I will send after this....

Send me as soon as possible the report of the announcement at Coburg. I wear your dear picture
mornings and evenings, and wore it also at the meeting of the Conseil.

    [Footnote 67: A Special Meeting of the Privy Council was held
    on the 23rd November, to receive the Queen's intimation of her
    engagement. The Queen wrote in her Journal:--

    "I went in; the room was full, but I hardly knew who was
    there.

    "... She then unfolded a paper and read her Declaration,
    which you will, before this can reach you, have seen in the
    newspapers. I cannot describe to you with what a mixture of
    self-possession and feminine delicacy she read the paper. Her
    voice, which is naturally beautiful, was clear and untroubled;
    and her eye was bright and calm, neither bold nor downcast,
    but firm and soft. There was a blush on her cheek which made
    her look both handsomer and more interesting; and certainly
    she did look as interesting and as handsome as any young
    lady I ever saw.

    "I happened to stand behind the Duke of Wellington's chair,
    and caught her eye twice as she directed it towards him, which
    I fancy she did with a good-natured interest. ...The crowd,
    which was not great but very decent, I might almost say
    respectable, expressed their approbation of the Duke of
    Wellington and Sir R. Peel, and their disapprobation of the
    Ministers very loudly. Lord John and Lord Normanby, they tell
    me, were positively hooted.... Lord Melbourne ... seemed to me
    to look careworn, and on the whole the meeting had a sombre
    air."--Croker Papers, ii. 359.]

[Pageheading: THE PEERAGE QUESTION]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

WIESBADEN, 22nd November 1839.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I was delighted with your dear little letter. You write these kind of
letters with a very great facility, and they are generally so natural and clever, that it makes
one very happy to receive them. I had written less of late, because I thought you occupied
more agreeably than to read my letters. I have on purpose kept back a courier, to be able to
send you the latest news from here of M. Albert. The young people arrived here only on the
20th, in the morning, having very kindly stopped at Bonn. He is, besides, in great spirits
and gaiety, and full of fun; he is a very amiable companion.

Concerning the peerage, that is a matter to be considered at any time; the only reason why
I do wish it is, that Albert's foreignership should disappear as much as possible. I have,
in different circumstances to be sure, suffered greatly from my having declined conditionally
the peerage when it was offered me in 1816.[69] Your Uncle[70] writes to you in German: as
far as I understood him, he speaks of the necessity of a marriage treaty; that is a matter
of course. There is, however, something additional to be regulated concerning the possible
succession in the Coburg-Gotha dominions, there being betwixt it and Albert but good Ernest.
Some regulation becomes therefore necessary, at least reasonable. The Duke wishes also to know
if the treaty is to be made in England or in Germany. Should the last of the two be fixed upon,
he thinks that one of your Ministers abroad would be the proper person for it. Ever, my dear
Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 69: The Dukedom of Kendal was offered to, and, after
    consideration, declined by, Prince Leopold.]

    [Footnote 70: The Duke of Saxe-Coburg (Ernest I.).]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 26th November 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--I thank you for your kind letter which I received the day before yesterday;
but I fear you must have been very dull at Wiesbaden....

Everything went off uncommonly well on the 23rd, but it was rather formidable;[71] eighty-two
Privy Councillors present; everybody very much pleased--and I was loudly greeted on leaving
the Palace after the Council.

The whole Cabinet agree with me in being strongly of opinion that Albert should not be a Peer;
indeed, I see everything against it and nothing for it; the English are very jealous at the
idea of Albert's having any political power, or meddling with affairs here--which I know from
himself he will not do.

As Wiesbaden is half-way (or thereabouts) to Coburg, I take the liberty of enclosing a large
letter to Albert, which I beg you to send on to him.

We are quite flooded here, and the road to Datchet is quite impassable. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 71: Greville mentions that the Queen's hands
    trembled so, that she could hardly read the Declaration which
    she was holding.]

[Pageheading: BRITISH SUSCEPTIBILITIES]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

27th November 1839.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty....

A little civility would be well bestowed upon Lord and Lady Tankerville, and might not be without
its effect, but if your Majesty does not like it, it cannot be helped.

The others also shall, if possible, be kept in good humour.

The misrepresentation, respecting Prince Alexander[72] your Majesty will see corrected in the
Morning Chronicle of that morning, but of course your Majesty will not expect that this contradiction
will put an end to bitter and offensive remarks. It will now be said that, knowing the true
religion, he has given over his children to the false, and that he has sacrificed their eternal
welfare to his own worldly objects.[73] There is nothing which cannot be turned in an hostile
and malignant manner by malignant and perverted ingenuity.

Can your Majesty inform Lord Melbourne what is the arrangement respecting King Leopold's children?
They are, Lord Melbourne presumes, to be brought up Roman Catholics.

Lord Melbourne earnestly hopes to hear that your Majesty is better and more free from pain.
He is himself very well.

    [Footnote 72: Prince Alexander of Würtemberg.]

    [Footnote 73: See ante, p. 150. (Ch. VIII, Footnote 22)]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 27th November 1839.

The English are very jealous of any foreigner interfering in the government of this country,
and have already in some of the papers (which are friendly to me and you) expressed a hope
that you would not interfere. Now, though I know you never would, still, if you were a Peer,
they would all say, the Prince meant to play a political part. I am certain you will understand
this, but it is much better not to say anything more about it now, and to let the whole matter
rest. The Tories make a great disturbance (saying) that you are a Papist, because the words
"a Protestant Prince" have not been put into the Declaration--a thing which would be quite
unnecessary, seeing that I cannot marry a Papist....

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

29th November 1839.

I had a talk with Lord Melbourne last night. He thinks your view about the Peerage question
quite correct. Uncle seems to me, after all, much more reasonable about it. We had a good talk
this morning about your arrangements for our marriage, and also about your official attendants,
and he[74] has told me that young Mr. Anson (his Private Secretary), who is with him, greatly
wishes to be with you. I am very much in favour of it, because he is an excellent young man,
and very modest, very honest, very steady, very well-informed, and will be of much use to you.
He is not a member of the House of Commons, which is also convenient; so long as Lord Melbourne
is in office he remains his Secretary--but William Cowper[75] was also for some time Secretary
to his Uncle, and at the same time my Groom-in-Waiting. Lord Melbourne feared it was not advisable
for you to have Mr. Anson, and also his uncle, but I told him that did not matter if the people
are fit for the posts....

    [Footnote 74: Lord Melbourne.]

    [Footnote 75: Afterwards William Cowper-Temple and Lord Mount
    Temple, author of the well-known amendment to the Education
    Act of 1870.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN OF PORTUGAL]

Queen Maria II. of Portugal to Queen Victoria.

LISBONNE, 1 Décembre 1839.

MA BIEN CHÈRE VICTOIRE,--Hier ayant reçu la communication de votre mariage avec Albert, je
ne veux pas tarder un seul instant à vous en féliciter sur votre heureux choix, et en même
temps vous prier de croire aux v[oe]ux sincères que je forme pour votre bonheur avec votre
excellent c[oe]ur il n'est pas possible le contraire. Permettez que je vous dise que votre
choix ne m'a pas dû étonner, car sachant combien Albert est bon, vous ne pouviez pas choisir
un autre dont vous fussiez aussi sûre qu'il puisse vous rendre aussi heureuse comme vous le
méritez, chère Victoire. Pour que tous mes souhaits soient exaucés je vous désire un bonheur
aussi complet que l'est le mien. Qu'Albert soit comme Ferdinand et vous serez parfaitement
heureuse. Adieu! ma chère Victoire. Je vous prie de me croire, votre dévouée Cousine,

MARIE.

Ferdinand vous fait dire mille choses.

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE'S HOUSEHOLD]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 8th December 1839.

As to your wish about your gentlemen, my dear Albert, I must tell you quite honestly that it
will not do. You may entirely rely upon me that the people who will be about you will be absolutely
pleasant people, of high standing and good character. These gentlemen will not be in continual
attendance on you; only on great occasions, and to accompany you when you go anywhere, and
to dinners, etc. Seymour is your confidential attendant, and also Schenk and Anson,[76] whom
Lehzen has written to you about.

Old Sir George Anson has been told of your gracious wish to have him as Groom of the Bedchamber
and is delighted.

I can only have Lords, and they will not be Peers, but Lords, the eldest sons of Dukes or Marquesses,
or Earls (Counts), and who as far as possible are not in Parliament, for then they need not
change, but your people are appointed by you and not by me (nominally), and therefore, unless
they were to vote against my Government (which would be awkward), they need not change. You
may rely upon my care that you shall have proper people, and not idle and not too young, and
Lord Melbourne has already mentioned several to me who would be very suitable....

I have received to-day an ungracious letter from Uncle Leopold. He appears to me to be nettled
because I no longer ask for his advice, but dear Uncle is given to believe that he must rule
the roast everywhere. However, that is not a necessity. As he has written to Melbourne, Melbourne
will reply to him on every point, and will also tell him that Stockmar ought to come here as
soon as possible to arrange everything about the treaty. That will be a very good thing, because
Stockmar understands all English things so well.

The Second, as you always called Palmerston, is to be married within the next few days to Lady
Cowper, the sister of my Premier (Primus); I have known this for a long time, but Melbourne
asked me not to tell it to any one. They are, both of them, above fifty, and I think that they
are quite right so to act, because Palmerston, since the death of his sisters, is quite alone
in the world, and Lady C. is a very clever woman, and much attached to him; still, I feel sure
it will make you smile.

    [Footnote 76: Mr George Anson had been Private Secretary to
    Lord Melbourne; it was on Lord Melbourne's recommendation that
    the Queen appointed him Private Secretary to Prince Albert.
    The Prince was inclined to resent the selection, and to think
    that in the case of so confidential an official he should have
    been allowed to make his own nomination. But they became firm
    friends, and the Prince found Mr Anson's capacity, common
    sense, and entire disinterestedness of the greatest value to
    him. Later he became keeper of the Prince's Privy Purse, and
    died in 1849.]

(Continued on the 9th).--To-day I have had a Conseil, and then I knighted the Mayor of Newport[77]
(who distinguished himself so much in that riot of the Chartists[78]); he is a very timid,
modest man, and was very happy when I told him orally how exceedingly satisfied I am with his
conduct.... The officers have been rewarded too.... I am plaguing you already with tiresome
politics, but you will in that find a proof of my [confidence] love,[79] because I must share
with you everything that rejoices me, everything that vexes or grieves me, and I am certain
you will take your part in it....

To-day I saw Lord William Russell--you know him, don't you? I forgot to tell you that you will
have a great Officer of State at the head of your Household, who is called the Groom of the
Stole; it is a position in the Court for prestige only, without any business; he will be a Peer....

    [Footnote 77: Mr T. Phillips, the Mayor of Newport,
    Monmouthshire, had behaved with great coolness and courage
    during the riot on 4th November. He read the Riot Act among
    showers of bullets before ordering the troops to fire.]

    [Footnote 78: Frost, Williams, and others, afterwards
    convicted at Monmouth.]

    [Footnote 79: The Queen had begun the word "confidence" but
    struck it out and substituted "love."]

(Continued 10th December).--I am very impatient at your bust not having yet arrived; the Duchess
of Sutherland wrote to me she had seen it in Rome, and it was so beautiful!...

Who has made the little copy which you sent me, and who the original? Feodore writes to me
so much about you....

We expect Queen Adelaide to-day, who will stay here until the day after to-morrow. Melbourne
has asked me to enquire of you whether you know Lord Grosvenor? He is the eldest son of the
Marquis of Westminster, and does not belong to any party; he is not in Parliament. He is very
pleasant, speaks German very well, and has been a good deal on the Continent. If he accepts,
he might be one of your gentlemen. Lord Melbourne is particularly desirous of doing everything
that is most agreeable to you. I have a request to make, too, viz., that you will appoint poor
Clark your physician; you need not consult him unless you wish it. It is only an honorary title,
and would make him very happy....

[Pageheading: THE PROTESTANT QUESTION]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 9th December 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--... I was quite miserable at not hearing from Albert for ten days; such a long
silence is quite insupportable for any one in my position towards Albert, and I was overjoyed
on receiving yesterday the most dear, most affectionate, delightful long letter from him. He
writes so beautifully, and so simply and unaffectedly. I hope, dear Uncle, you received my
last letter (quite a packet) for Albert, on the 5th or 6th? I send you another now. I fear
I am very indiscreet about these letters, but I have so much to tell him, and it will only
last two months, so that I trust you will forgive it, and forward them.

I mentioned the topics you spoke of to me in your letter to our good friend Lord Melbourne,
and as he is writing, I leave it to him to explain to you, as he writes so much better than
I do. He will explain to you why the word Protestant was left out in the Declaration, which
I think was quite right; for do what one will, nothing will please these Tories.... I shall
be delighted to see Stockmar here, for so many reasons, and the quicker he comes the better....

I have a favour to ask you, dear Uncle, which I hope you will grant, unless it should be indiscreet
in me. It is, if you have still got Aunt Charlotte's bust at Claremont, if you would give it
to me to put in the Gallery here, where you would see it oftener than you do at Claremont,
and I am so anxious there should be one of her here.

We have vile weather, cold and foggy; such fogs we have here! I move to London for good on
the 9th or 10th of January. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 11th December 1839.

... I like Lady A---- very much too, only she is a little strict and particular, and too severe
towards others, which is not right; for I think one ought always to be indulgent towards other
people, as I always think, if we had not been well brought up and well taken care of, we might
also have gone astray. That is always my feeling. Yet it is always right to show that one does
not like to see what is obviously wrong; but it is very dangerous to be too severe, and I am
certain that as a rule such people always greatly regret that in their youth they have not
been as careful as they ought to have been. I have explained this so badly, and written it
so badly, that I fear you will hardly be able to make it out.

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 15th December 1839.

... Again no letter from you!... Lord Melbourne left here this morning, but comes back to-morrow
evening, after the wedding of his sister. I hope he will remain here, because I am fond of
him, and because he has a share in all my happiness, and is the only man with whom I can speak
without gêne on everything, which I cannot do with my Court.

"Islay"[80] is still plagued by him every evening--a thing which he much enjoys--and constantly
begs for the spectacles. I forgot to tell you that Karl has given me a pretty little Rowley,
who likewise lives in the house. The multitude of dogs is really terrible!

The ceremony of Declaration must have been very fine and touching, and I am most happy that
the good people of Coburg are so pleased with our marriage....

    [Footnote 80: A pet dog of the Queen's.]

Dec. 17th.--I have spoken to Lord M. about your wish, and he says--what is my own opinion too--that
your people ought to be as much as possible out of Parliament when they have hardly any politics,
which is the best thing--as your Household must not form a contrast to mine--and therefore
you could not have violent Tories amongst your people; but you may be quite certain that both
I and Lord Melbourne will take the greatest care to select respectable and distinguished people,
and people of good character. Perhaps Lord Grosvenor may be your Groom of the Stole, though
he is no Peer; but his rank and family are so high, that he would do very well; and, besides,
not belonging to any party, and being out of Parliament, is such a great advantage.

The design of our Arms without supporters is unfortunately not finished, but I send you a little
drawing which I have made of it myself. The report of Sir William Woods I beg you will send
back, but the Arms you can keep.

I add a little pin as a small Christmas present. I hope you will sometimes wear it.

[Pageheading: THE PROTESTANT QUESTION]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 14th December 1839.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I lived in the hope of receiving some letters for you from Albert, but
nothing is arrived to-day. Your dear long letter gave me great pleasure. Before I answer some
parts of it, I will say a few words on Lord Melbourne's letter. Perhaps you will be so good
to tell him that it gratified me much. It is the letter of an honest and an amiable statesman,
practical and straightforward. In the omission of the word "Protestant" he was probably right,
and it is equally probable that they would have abused him--maybe even more if he had put it
in. There is only this to say, however: the Ernestine branch of the Saxon family has been,
there is no doubt, the real cause of the establishment of Protestantism in Germany, and consequently
in great parts of Northern Europe. This same line became a martyr to that cause, and was deprived
of almost all its possessions in consequence of it.

Recently there have been two cases of Catholic marriages, but the main branch has remained,
and is, in fact, very sincerely Protestant. Both Ernest and Albert are much attached to it,
and when deviations took place they were connected more with new branches transplanted out
of the parent soil than with what more properly must be considered as the reigning family.

The Peerage question may remain as it is, but it will not be denied that the great object must
be to make Albert as English as possible, and that nothing will render this more difficult
than a foreign name....

I shall be most happy to see poor Charlotte's bust in the Gallery at Windsor, and it is kind
of you to have had the thought. She was a high and noble-minded creature, and her affection
and kindness for me very great. She had placed the most unbounded confidence in me; our principle
had been never to let a single day pass over any little subject of irritation. The only subjects
of that sort we had were about the family, particularly the Regent, and then the old Queen
Charlotte. Now I must conclude with my best love. Ever, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: A MISSING LETTER]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 17th December 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--Many thanks for your two most kind letters. I suppose I may send for Aunt Charlotte's
bust, for which I am most grateful--and say I have your authority to do so? You are very kind
to think about my stupid health; I don't think I ever, at least not for very long, have walked
so regularly as I have done this last month--out in fog, and mist, and wind, and cold. But
I cannot be otherwise than agitated; getting no letter makes me ill, and getting them excites
me....

I have much to write, and therefore cannot make this a long letter, but one thing more I must
mention. The very day of the Declaration in Council, on the 23rd ult., I sent off a letter
to Albert, by Van de Weyer, saying it was to be forwarded sans délai to Coburg; now, Albert
never has received that letter, which was a long one, and thanks me for two, of the 26th and
29th. This vexes me much, and I can't help thinking the letter is lying either at Wiesbaden
or Brussels. Would you graciously enquire, for I should not like it to be lost.

Forgive my writing such a letter so full of myself. Ever, dearest Uncle, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE'S SECRETARY]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE.

The 22nd.--I have but little time to write. The Duchess of Sutherland is here, who admires
you much, and is very sympathetic....

The 23rd.--Your letter of the 15th just received. I will now answer at once. It is, as you
rightly suppose, my greatest, my most anxious wish to do everything most agreeable to you,
but I must differ with you respecting Mr Anson.... What I said about Anson giving you advice,
means, that if you like to ask him, he can and will be of the greatest use to you, as he is
a very well-informed person. He will leave Lord Melbourne as soon as he is appointed about
you. With regard to your last objection, that it would make you a party man if you took the
Secretary of the Prime Minister as your Treasurer, I do not agree in it; for, though I am very
anxious you should not appear to belong to a Party, still it is necessary that your Household
should not form a too strong contrast to mine, else they will say, "Oh, we know the Prince
says he belongs to no party, but we are sure he is a Tory!" Therefore it is also necessary
that it should appear that you went with me in having some of your people who are staunch Whigs;
but Anson is not in Parliament, and never was, and therefore he is not a violent politician.
Do not think because I urge this, Lord M. prefers it; on the contrary, he never urged it, and
I only do it as I know it is for your own good. You will pardon this long story. It will also
not do to wait till you come to appoint all your people. I am distressed to tell you what I
fear you do not like, but it is necessary, my dearest, most excellent Albert. Once more I tell
you that you can perfectly rely on me in these matters....

[Pageheading: THE TORIES]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 26th December 1839.

... The Historical Sketch has interested us greatly; Lord Melbourne read it through immediately.
I greatly thank you also for the genealogical tree you sent me.

Now, my dearest, to be about what is not so pleasant or amusing. I mean, now for business.
I always think it safer to write that in English, as I can explain myself better, and I hope
you can read my English, as I try to be very legible. I am much grieved that you feel disappointed
about my wish respecting your gentlemen, but very glad that you consent to it, and that you
feel confidence in my choice. Respecting the Treasurer, my dearest Albert, I have already written
at great length in my last letter, so I will not say much more about it to-day, but I will
just observe that, tho' I fully understand (indeed no one could feel more for you in the very
trying position you will be placed in than I do) your feelings, it is absolutely necessary
that an Englishman should be at the head of your affairs; therefore (tho' I will not force
Mr. Anson on you) I ask you if it is not better to take a man in whom I have confidence, and
whom I know well enough to trust perfectly, than a man who is quite a stranger, and whom I
know nothing of?

I am very glad that your father knows Lord Grosvenor. As to the Tories, I am still in a rage;[81]
they abuse and grumble incessantly in the most incredible manner.

I will tell good Lord Melbourne that you are very grateful. That you will write to him is very
nice of you, and makes me glad. I shall always feel very happy if you, my dearest Albert, will
be very friendly to this good and just man; and I am convinced that, when you will know him
more intimately, you will be as fond of him as I am. No one is more abused by bad people than
Lord M.--and nobody is so forgiving....

I have just learned that my two uncles, the Dukes of Sussex and Cambridge (to whom Lord M.
had written) very willingly consent to let you take precedence of them; it was, of course,
necessary to ask them about it....

    [Footnote 81: Lit. raging (wuthend). The phrase was a
    favourite one of King Leopold's, from whom the Queen had
    adopted it.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 27th December 1839.

MY DEAR UNCLE,--Just two words (though you don't deserve half a one, as your silence is unpardonable)
to say I have just heard from Albert, who, I am glad to say, consents to my choosing his people;
so one essential point is gained, and we have only the Treasurer to carry now. I am sure, as
you are so anxious Albert should be thoroughly English, you will see how necessary it is that
an Englishman should be at the head of his financial affairs.

I see that you wrote to Lord Melbourne that you were glad to hear I took more walking exercise,
but I must tell you that ever since I have done so I sleep badly, and feel unwell! If the weather
would only allow me to ride I should be quite well. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE AND LORD MELBOURNE]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 30th December 1839.

... I here enclose Lord Melbourne's letter. I have read it, and I think that nothing could
be better; it is just what I told you, and it is the honest and impartial advice of a very
clever, very honest, and very impartial man, whose greatest wish is to secure your and my happiness.
Follow this advice and you may be sure of success. Lord Melbourne told me that he had it written
on purpose in a clear hand, by one of his secretaries, as he thought and feared you would not
be able to read his own hand, which I daresay would have been the case, as he writes a very
peculiar hand; he has therefore only signed it.

I saw to-day the Duke of Cambridge, who has shown me your letter, with which he is quite delighted--and,
indeed, it is a very nice one. The Duke told Lord Melbourne he had always greatly desired our
marriage, and never thought of George; but that I do not believe.

I must conclude, my dearest, beloved Albert. Be careful as to your valuable health, and be
assured that no one loves you as much as your faithful VICTORIA.

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER IX

The marriage of the Queen and Prince Albert took place amid great splendour and general rejoicings
on the 10th of February; the general satisfaction being unaffected by the tactless conduct
of Ministers who, by not acting in conjunction with the Opposition, had been defeated on the
question of the amount of the Prince's annuity, the House of Commons reducing it from £50,000
to £30,000.

At home, the Privilege Question aroused great interest, a point which for months convulsed
the Courts and Parliament being whether a report, ordered by the House to be printed, of a
Committee appointed by the House, was protected by privilege against being the subject of an
action for libel. The Courts having decided that it was not, an Act was passed to alter the
rule for the future, but meanwhile the sheriffs had been imprisoned by the House for executing
the judgment in the usual course.

The Ministry tottered on, getting a majority of nine only on their China policy, and twenty-one
on a direct vote of confidence. The Bill for the union of the two Canadas was, however, passed
without difficulty.

An attempt by a barman named Oxford to assassinate the Queen on Constitution Hill fortunately
failed, and Oxford was committed, after trial, to a lunatic asylum. In July, the prospect of
an heir being born to the throne led to the passing of a Regency Bill, naming Prince Albert
Regent, should the Queen die leaving issue; the Duke of Sussex alone entered a formal protest
against it.

Afghanistan continued unsettled, and Lord Auckland's policy seemed hardly justified by the
unpopularity at Cabul of Shah Sooja; Dost Mahommed still made efforts to regain his position,
but he ultimately surrendered to Sir William Macnaghten, the British Envoy at Cabul. The disputes
with China continued, and hostilities broke out; British ships proceeded to China, and Chusan
was captured.

In France an attempt against the Government was made by Louis Napoleon, who landed at Boulogne
in a British steamer, was captured, and sentenced to life imprisonment. More serious difficulties
between this country and France arose out of Eastern affairs. The Four Powers, England, Russia,
Austria, and Prussia, had addressed an ultimatum to Mehemet, requiring him to evacuate North
Syria, France declining to take part in the conference on the subject. An Anglo-Austrian army
undertook to eject him, St Jean d'Acre was stormed, and France thrust into a position of unwilling
isolation. Thiers, who had been made Minister, expected that Mehemet would be able to retain
his conquests, and for a time it looked as though France would interfere to protect him. Ultimately,
in spite of some ostentatious preparations in France, peaceful counsels prevailed, and Thiers
found it advisable to retire in favour of Guizot.

In Holland, William I. (then sixty-seven) abdicated in favour of his son, the Prince of Orange
(William II.). The need of a younger and firmer ruler was the reason officially stated in the
Royal Proclamation. The real reasons were probably the King's attachment to the Roman Catholic
Countess d'Oultremont, whom he now privately married, and the humiliation he felt at the unfavourable
termination of the Belgian dispute.

CHAPTER IX

1840

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 11th January 1840.

STOCKMAR is here; I saw him yesterday and to-day, and have begged him to explain to you all
the Court affairs, and the affairs concerning the Treaty, in my name. He will explain to you
the Treasury affair, and will do it much better than I should. I am very happy to see him again,
and to have him here; he can give such good advice to both of us, and he understands England
so fully.... Stocky (as I always used to call him) is so sensible about everything, and is
so much attached to you.

I shall have no great dinners, because the large rooms in the upper story here are not yet
ready. My good old Primus[1] usually dines with me three or four times a week, almost always
on Sundays, when I cannot invite other people to dinner, as it is not reckoned right here for
me to give dinners on Sunday, or to invite many people. Your song (the bust has been mentioned
before) is very fine; there is something touching in it which I like so much....

    [Footnote 1: I.e. Premier.]

[Pageheading: OPENING OF PARLIAMENT]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 12th January 1840.

This letter will be handed you by Torrington personally. I recommend you not to leave late,
so as to make the journey without hurry. I did not go to church to-day; the weather is very
cold, and I have to be careful not to catch cold before the 16th, because I open Parliament
in person. This is always a nervous proceeding, and the announcement of my marriage at the
beginning of my speech is really a very nervous and awful affair for me. I have never failed
yet, and this is the sixth time that I have done it, and yet I am just as frightened as if
I had never done it before. They say that feeling of nervousness is never got over, and that
Wm. Pitt himself never got up to make a speech without thinking he should fail. But then I
only read my speech.

I had to-day a visit from George[2] whom I received alone, and he was very courteous. His Papa
I have also seen.

    [Footnote 2: Prince George of Cambridge.]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 17th January 1840.

... Yesterday just as I came home from the House of Lords,[3] I received your dear letter of
the 10th. I cannot understand at all why you have received no letters from me, seeing that
I always wrote twice a week, regularly....

I observe with horror that I have not formally invited your father; though that is a matter
of course. My last letter will have set that right. I ought not to have written to you on picture
notepaper, seeing that we are in deep mourning for my poor Aunt, the Landgravine,[4] but it
was quite impossible for me to write to you on mourning paper....

But this will not interfere with our marriage in the least; the mourning will be taken off
for that day, and for two or three days after, and then put on again.

Everything went off exceedingly well yesterday. There was an immense multitude of people, and
perhaps never, certainly not for a long time, have I been received so well; and what is remarkable,
I was not nervous, and read the speech really well. The Tories began immediately afterwards
to conduct themselves very badly and to plague us. But everyone praised you very much. Melbourne
made a very fine speech about you and your ancestors. To-day I receive the Address of the House
of Lords, and, perhaps, also that of the House of Commons. See p. 195. (Ch. VIII, Footnote 65)]

[Pageheading: TORIES, WHIGS, AND RADICALS]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 21st January 1840.

I am awaiting with immense impatience a letter from you. Here hardly anything to relate to-day,
because we are living in great retirement, until informed that my poor Aunt has been buried.
With the exception of Melbourne and my own people, no one has dined for the last week.

We are all of us very much preoccupied with politics. The Tories really are very astonishing;
as they cannot and dare not attack us in Parliament, they do everything that they can to be
personally rude to me.... The Whigs are the only safe and loyal people, and the Radicals will
also rally round their Queen to protect her from the Tories; but it is a curious sight to see
those, who as Tories, used to pique themselves upon their excessive loyalty, doing everything
to degrade their young Sovereign in the eyes of the people. Of course there are exceptions.

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.

BUCKINGHAM PALACE, 31st January 1840.

... You have written to me in one of your letters about our stay at Windsor, but, dear Albert,
you have not at all understood the matter. You forget, my dearest Love, that I am the Sovereign,
and that business can stop and wait for nothing. Parliament is sitting, and something occurs
almost every day, for which I may be required, and it is quite impossible for me to be absent
from London; therefore two or three days is already a long time to be absent. I am never easy
a moment, if I am not on the spot, and see and hear what is going on, and everybody, including
all my Aunts (who are very knowing in all these things), says I must come out after the second
day, for, as I must be surrounded by my Court, I cannot keep alone. This is also my own wish
in every way.

Now as to the Arms: as an English Prince you have no right, and Uncle Leopold had no right
to quarter the English Arms, but the Sovereign has the power to allow it by Royal Command:
this was done for Uncle Leopold by the Prince Regent, and I will do it again for you. But it
can only be done by Royal Command.

I will, therefore, without delay, have a seal engraved for you.

You will certainly feel very happy too, at the news of the coming union of my much-beloved
Vecto[5] with Nemours. It gives me quite infinite pleasure, because then I can see the dear
child more frequently.

I read in the newspaper that you, dear Albert, have received many Orders; also that the Queen
of Spain will send you the Golden Fleece....

Farewell, dearest Albert, and think often of thy faithful

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 5: The Princess Victoire of Saxe-Coburg, cousin of
    Queen Victoria.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE'S GRANT]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 31st January 1840.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I am most grateful for your long letter of the 27th and 28th inst. I
send a messenger to be able to answer quite confidentially. I must confess that I never saw
anything so disgraceful than the discussion and vote in the Commons.[6] The whole mode and
way in which those who opposed the grant treated the question was so extremely vulgar and disrespectful,
that I cannot comprehend the Tories. The men who uphold the dignity of the Crown to treat their
Sovereign in such a manner, on such an occasion! Even in private life the most sour and saturnine
people relax and grow gay and mildly disposed on occasions like this. Clearly, as you are Queen
Regnant, Albert's position is to all intents and purposes that of a male Queen Consort, and
the same privileges and charges ought to be attached to it which were attached to Queen Adelaide's
position. The giving up the income which the Queen-Dowager came into, and which I hope and
trust Albert would never have, or have had, any chance of having had himself, was in reality
giving up a thing which custom had sanctioned. That Prince George of Denmark[7] was considered
to be in the same position as a Queen Consort there can be, I think, no doubt about, and when
one considers the immense difference in the value of money then and now, it renders matters
still more striking. I must say such conduct in Parliament I did not expect, and the less when
I consider that your Civil List was rather curtailed than otherwise, perhaps not quite fairly.
I rejoice to think that I induced Lord Melbourne to propose to you not to accede to the giving
up of the Duchy of Lancaster. Parliament did not deserve it, and by good management I think
something may be made of it.

Another thing which made me think that Parliament would have acted with more decency, is that
I return to the country now near £40,000 a year, not because I thought my income too large,
as worthy Sir Robert Peel said, but from motives of political delicacy, which at least might
be acknowledged on such occasions. I was placed by my marriage treaty in the position of a
Princess of Wales, which in reality it was, though not yet by law, there existing a possibility
of a Prince of Wales as long as George IV. lived. I can only conclude by crying shame, shame!...

I hope and trust you will not be too much worried with all these unpleasant things, and that
Albert will prove a comforter and support to you. And so good-bye for to-day. Ever, my dearest
Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 6: The Ministers proposed an income of £50,000 a
    year for the Prince--the Conservatives and Radicals united on
    an amendment reducing it to £30,000, which was carried by a
    majority of 104.]

    [Footnote 7: The Consort of Queen Anne.]

[Pageheading: THE PRINCE AT BRUSSELS]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 1st February 1840.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I hope you will be pleased with me, as I send a messenger on purpose
to inform you of Albert's arrival. He will write himself this night, though rather inclined
to surrender himself to Morpheus.

He looks well and handsome, but a little interesting, being very much irritated by what happened
in the House of Commons. He does not care about the money, but he is much shocked and exasperated
by the disrespect of the thing, as he well may.

I do not yet know the exact day of their departure, but I suppose it will be on the 5th, to
be able to cross on the 6th. I have already had some conversation with him, and mean to talk
à fond to him to-morrow. My wish is to see you both happy and thoroughly united and of one
mind, and I trust that both of you will ever find in me a faithful, honest, and attached friend.

As it is eleven o'clock at night, I offer you my respects, and remain, ever, my dearest Victoria,
your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

Your poor Aunt fainted this morning; she is much given to this, but it was rather too long to-day.

[Pageheading: AMIABILITY OF THE PRINCE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 4th February 1840.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I have now treated all the questions you wished me to touch upon with
Albert, and I was much pleased with his amiable disposition. At a certain distance explanations
by letter are next to impossible, and each party in the end thinks the other unreasonable.
When he arrived he was rather exasperated about various things, and pretty full of grievances.
But our conversations have dissipated these clouds, and now there will only remain the new
parliamentary events and consequences, which change a good deal of what one could reasonably
have foreseen or arranged. You will best treat these questions now verbally. Albert is quick,
not obstinate, in conversation, and open to conviction if good arguments are brought forward.
When he thinks himself right he only wishes to have it proved that he misunderstands the case,
to give it up without ill-humour.

BRUSSELS, 8th February 1840.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--This letter will arrive when I trust you will be most happily occupied;
I don't mean therefore to trespass on your time.

May Heaven render you as happy as I always wished you to be, and as I always tried hard to
see you. There is every prospect of it, and I am sure you will be mistress in that respect
of your own avenir. Perfect confidence will best ensure and consolidate this happiness. Our
rule in poor Charlotte's time was never to permit one single day to pass over ein Missverständniss,
however trifling it might be.[8] I must do Charlotte the justice to say that she kept this
compact most religiously, and at times even more so than myself, as in my younger days I was
sometimes inclined to be sulky and silently displeased. With this rule no misunderstandings
can take root and be increased or complicated by new ones being added to the old. Albert is
gentle and open to reason; all will therefore always be easily explained, and he is determined
never to be occupied but by what is important or useful to you....

Now I conclude, with my renewed warmest and sincerest good wishes for you, ever, my dearest
Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD.

    [Footnote 8: (From an unpublished Contemporary Memoir by
    Admiral Sir William Hotham, G.C.B.)

    "Her Royal Highness was now and then apt to give way to a high
    flow of animal spirits, natural at her time of life, and from
    carelessness more than unkindness to ridicule others. In one
    of these sallies of inconsiderate mirth, she perceived the
    Prince, sombre and cold, taking no apparent notice of what was
    going on, or if he did, evidently displeased. She at length
    spoke to him about it, and he at once manifested reluctance
    to join in the conversation, saying that though he had been a
    tolerably apt scholar in many things, he had yet to learn in
    England what pleasure was derived from the exercise of that
    faculty he understood to be called "quizzing"; that he could
    by no means reconcile it to himself according to any rule
    either of good breeding or benevolence. The tears instantly
    started in her eye, and feeling at once the severity and
    justice of the reproof, assured him most affectionately
    that, as it was the first time she had ever merited His Royal
    Highness's reproof on this subject, she assured him most
    solemnly it should be the last."]

[Pageheading: THE WEDDING-DAY]

Queen Victoria to the Prince Albert.[9]

10th February 1840.

DEAREST,--... How are you to-day, and have you slept well? I have rested very well, and feel
very comfortable to-day. What weather! I believe, however, the rain will cease.

Send one word when you, my most dearly loved bridegroom, will be ready. Thy ever-faithful,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 9: A note folded in billet form, to be taken by
    hand. Addressed:

    "HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE.
    "THE QUEEN."

    This was the day of their marriage at the Chapel Royal. After
    the wedding breakfast at Buckingham Palace they drove to
    Windsor, and on the 14th they returned to London.]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 11th February 1840.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I write to you from here, the happiest, happiest Being that ever existed.
Really, I do not think it possible for any one in the world to be happier, or AS happy as I
am. He is an Angel, and his kindness and affection for me is really touching. To look in those
dear eyes, and that dear sunny face, is enough to make me adore him. What I can do to make
him happy will be my greatest delight. Independent of my great personal happiness, the reception
we both met with yesterday was the most gratifying and enthusiastic I ever experienced; there
was no end of the crowds in London, and all along the road. I was a good deal tired last night,
but am quite well again to-day, and happy....

My love to dear Louise. Ever your affectionate,

VICTORIA R.

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 21st February 1840.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I am more grateful than I can express that, notwithstanding your many
empêchements and occupations, you still found a little moment to write to me. News from you
are always most precious to me, and now almost more than ever. This is such an important moment
in your life, it will so much decide how the remainder is to be, that I am deeply interested
in all I can hear on the subject. Hitherto, with the exception of your own dear and Royal self,
I have not been spoiled, et j'ai puisé beaucoup de mes nouvelles in the Times and such like
sources.

God be praised that the dear ménage is so happy! I can only say may it be so for ever and ever.
I always thought that with your warm and feeling heart and susceptibility for strong and lasting
affection, you would prefer this genre of happiness, if you once possessed it, to every other.
It must be confessed that it is less frequent than could be wished for the good of mankind,
but when it does exist, there is something delightful to a generous heart like yours in this
sacred tie, in this attachment for better for worse, and I think the English Church service
expresses it in a simple and touching manner.

I was happy to see that the Addresses of both Houses of Parliament were voted in a decent and
becoming way. How mean people are! If they had not seen the public at large take a great interest
in your marriage and show you great affection, perhaps some would again have tried to bring
on unpleasant subjects....

My letter is grown long; I will therefore conclude it with the expression of my great affection
for your dear self. Ever, my most beloved Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

[Pageheading: POPULAR ENTHUSIASM]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

6th March 1840.

... As your Majesty has by your Lord Chamberlain permitted plays to be acted on Wednesdays
and Fridays in Lent, it would be condemning yourself if you did not go to see them if you like
to do so....

... Lord Melbourne is much pleased to hear that your Majesty and the Prince liked The School
for Scandal. It is upon the whole the cleverest comedy in the English language, the fullest
of wit and at the same time the most free from grossness.

[Pageheading: THE CORN LAWS]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

4th April 1840. Mr Warburton moved an adjournment, which caused many members to leave the House.
The motion being opposed, there were on a division 240 against adjournment, and only 125 in
favour of it.

Mr Warburton then by some blunder moved that the House adjourn, which puts an end to the debate.
This was eagerly caught at by the opposite party, and agreed to. So that the question is lost
by this ridiculous termination, and it is to be feared that it will produce much discontent
in the manufacturing class.[10]

    [Footnote 10: The opposition to the Corn Laws was now
    increasing in the North.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

5th April 1840.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He is quite well but much tired. He
has so much to do this morning that he will not be able to speak to Albemarle,[11] but if Albemarle
dines at the Palace, he certainly will then.

Lord Melbourne always feared anything like a mixture of the Stable establishments. It would
have been much better that what horses the Prince had should have been kept quite separate,
and that the horses of your Majesty's which he should have to use should have been settled,
and some plan arranged by which they could have been obtained when wanted. Horses to be used
by one set of people and kept and fed by another will never do. Servants and subordinate agents
in England are quite unmanageable in these respects. If they get [matters] into their hands
neither the Deity nor the Devil, nor both together, can make them agree. Lord Melbourne writes
this in ignorance of the actual facts of the case, and therefore it may be inapplicable.

    [Footnote 11: Master of the Horse.]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria. Sir William Follett spoke with much ingenuity, but in
the confined spirit of a lawyer.

    [Footnote 12: The motion was to censure Ministers for their
    want of foresight in their dealings with China in connection
    with the extension of commerce, and with the opium trade. The
    motion was rejected by 271 to 262.]

[Pageheading: ENGLAND AND CHINA]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria. In the course of the debate Mr Gladstone[13] said the
Chinese had a right to poison the wells, to keep away the English! The debate was adjourned.

    [Footnote 13: Mr Gladstone had been member for Newark since
    1832.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

2nd May 1840.

Mr Cowper has just come in and tells me that they have determined to begin the disturbance
to-night at the Opera, at the very commencement of the performance.[14] This may be awkward,
as your Majesty will arrive in the middle of the tumult. It is the intention not to permit
the opera to proceed until Laporte gives way.

Lord Melbourne is afraid that if the row has already begun, your Majesty's presence will not
put an end to it; and it might be as well not to go until your Majesty hears that it is over
and that the performance is proceeding quietly. Some one might be sent to attend and send word.

    [Footnote 14: A fracas took place at the Opera on 29th
    April. The Manager, Laporte, not having engaged Tamburini
    to sing, the audience made a hostile demonstration at the
    conclusion of the performance of I Puritani. An explanation
    made by Laporte only made matters worse, and eventually the
    Tamburinists took possession of the stage.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

6th May 1840.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He has just received this from Lord
John Russell--a most shocking event,[15] which your Majesty has probably by this time heard
of. Since he wrote to your Majesty, he has seen Mr Fox Maule,[17] who had been at the house
in Norfolk Street. He says that it is a most mysterious affair. Lord William Russell was found
in his bed, quite dead, cold and stiff, showing that the act had been perpetrated some time.
The bed was of course deluged with blood, but there were no marks of blood in any other part
of the room; so that he had been killed in his bed and by one blow, upon the throat, which
had nearly divided his head from his body. The back door of the house was broken open, but
there were no traces of persons having approached the door from without. His writing-desk was
also broken open and the money taken out, but otherwise little or nothing had been taken away.
The police upon duty in the streets had neither heard nor seen anything during the night. In
these circumstances strong suspicion lights upon the persons in the house, two maids and a
man, the latter a foreigner[18] and who had only been with Lord William about five weeks. These
persons are now separately confined, and the Commissioners of Police are actively employed
in enquiring into the affair. An inquest will of course be held upon the body without delay.

Lord Melbourne has just received your Majesty's letter, and will immediately convey to Lord
John your Majesty's kind expressions of sympathy.

    [Footnote 17: Under-Secretary for Home Affairs; afterwards, as
    Lord Panmure, Secretary for War.]

    [Footnote 18: Courvoisier.]

[Pageheading: MRS NORTON]

[Pageheading: PRINCESS CHARLOTTE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 22nd May 1840.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I received yesterday a most kind and dear letter from your august hands.
Charles,[19] who wanted to cross yesterday, will have had very bad weather. He is prepared
not to make too long a stay in England. He dined here on the 19th. Louise was prepared to come
to dinner, but was not quite equal to it; she therefore came after it. He came also to see
me on the 20th, before his departure for Ostende. It is very gracious of you to have given
him subsidies, but in fact poor Feo stands more in need of it. She really is too poor; when
one thinks that they have but £600 a year, and that large castles, etc., are to be kept up
with it, one cannot conceive how they manage it. It was a very generous feeling which prompted
you to see Mrs Norton, and I have been too much her friend to find fault with it. True it is
that Norton was freely accepted by her, but she was very poor, and could therefore hardly venture
to refuse him. Many people will flirt with a clever, handsome, but poor girl, though not marry
her--besides, the idea of having old Shery[20] for a grandfather had nothing very captivating.
A very unpleasant husband Norton certainly was, and one who had little tact. I can well believe
that she was much frightened, having so many eyes on her, some of which, perhaps, not with
the most amiable expression.

I was delighted to learn that you meant to visit poor Claremont, and to pass there part of
your precious birthday. Claremont is the place where in younger days you were least plagued,
and generally I saw you there in good spirits. You will also nolens volens be compelled to
think of me, and maybe of poor Charlotte.

This gives me an opening for saying a few words on this subject. I found several times that
some people had given you the impression that poor Charlotte had been hasty and violent even
to imperiousness and rudeness. I can you assure that it was not so; she was quick, and even
violent, but I never have seen anybody so open to conviction, and so fair and candid when wrong.
The proverb says, and not without some truth, that ladies come always back to the first words,
to avoid any symptom of having been convinced. Generous minds, however, do not do this; they
fight courageously their battles, but when they clearly see that they are wrong, and that the
reasons and arguments submitted to them are true, they frankly admit the truth. Charlotte had
eminently this disposition; besides, she was so anxious to please me, that often she would
say: "Let it be as it may; provided you wish it, I will do it." I always answered: "I never
want anything for myself; when I press something on you, it is from a conviction that it is
for your interest and for your good." I know that you have been told that she ordered everything
in the house and liked to show that she was the mistress. It was not so. On the contrary, her
pride was to make me appear to my best advantage, and even to display respect and obedience,
when I least wanted it from her. She would almost exaggerate the feeling, to show very clearly
that she considered me as her lord and master.

And on the day of the marriage, as most people suspected her of a very different disposition,
everybody was struck with the manner in which she pronounced the promise of obedience. I must
say that I was much more the master of the house than is generally the case in private life.
Besides, there was something generous and royal in her mind which alone would have prevented
her doing anything vulgar or ill-bred. What rendered her sometimes a little violent was a slight
disposition to jealousy. Poor Lady Maryborough,[21] at all times some twelve or fifteen years
older than myself, but whom I had much known in 1814, was once much the cause of a fit of that
description. I told her it was quite childish, but she said, "it is not, because she is a very
coquettish, dissipated woman." The most difficult task I had was to change her manners; she
had something brusque and too rash in her movements, which made the Regent quite unhappy, and
which sometimes was occasioned by a struggle between shyness and the necessity of exerting
herself. I had--I may say so without seeming to boast--the manners of the best society of Europe,
having early moved in it, and been rather what is called in French de la fleur des pois. A
good judge I therefore was, but Charlotte found it rather hard to be so scrutinised, and grumbled
occasionally how I could so often find fault with her.

Nothing perhaps speaks such volumes as the positive fact of her manners getting quite changed
within a year's time, and that to the openly pronounced satisfaction of the very fastidious
and not over-partial Regent. To explain how it came that manners were a little odd in England,
it is necessary to remember that England had been for more than ten years completely cut off
from the rest of the world....

We have bitter cold weather which has given colds to both the children. Uncle Ferdinand [22]
is now only arriving si dice on Sunday next. He has been robbed of 15,000 francs in his own
room au Palais-Royal, which is very unpleasant for all parties.

My letter is so long that I must haste to conclude it, remaining ever, my beloved Victoria,
your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

My love to Alberto.

    [Footnote 19: Prince Charles of Leiningen.]

    [Footnote 20: The three sisters, Mrs Norton, Lady Dufferin,
    and Lady Seymour (afterwards Duchess of Somerset), the latter
    of whom was "Queen of Beauty" at the Eglinton Tournament, were
    grand-daughters of R. B. Sheridan. Lord Melbourne was much
    in Mrs Norton's company, and Norton, for whom the Premier had
    found a legal appointment, sued him in the Court of Common
    Pleas for crim. con.; the jury found for the defendant.]

    [Footnote 21: Lord Maryborough (1763-1845) was William
    Wellesley Pole, brother of the Marquess Wellesley and the
    Duke of Wellington. He married Katherine Elizabeth Forbes,
    grand-daughter of the third Earl of Granard.]

    [Footnote 22: Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg, King Leopold's
    brother.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN AND THE PRINCE]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

Minutes of Conversations with Lord Melbourne and Baron Stockmar.

28th May 1840.

Lord Melbourne.--"I have spoken to the Queen, who says the Prince complains of a want of confidence
on trivial matters, and on all matters connected with the politics of this country. She said
it proceeded entirely from indolence; she knew it was wrong, but when she was with the Prince
she preferred talking upon other subjects. I told Her Majesty that she should try and alter
this, and that there was no objection to her conversing with the Prince upon any subject she
pleased. My impression is that the chief obstacle in Her Majesty's mind is the fear of difference
of opinion, and she thinks that domestic harmony is more likely to follow from avoiding subjects
likely to create difference. My own experience leads me to think that subjects between man
and wife, even where difference is sure to ensue, are much better discussed than avoided, for
the latter course is sure to beget distrust. I do not think that the Baroness[23] is the cause
of this want of openness, though her name to me is never mentioned by the Queen."

Baron Stockmar.--"I wish to have a talk with you. The Prince leans more on you than any one
else, and gives you his entire confidence; you are honest, moral, and religious, and will not
belie that trust. The Queen has not started upon a right principle. She should by degrees impart
everything to him, but there is danger in his wishing it all at once. A case may be laid before
him; he may give some crude and unformed opinion; the opinion may be taken and the result disastrous,
and a forcible argument is thus raised against advice being asked for the future.

"The Queen is influenced more than she is aware of by the Baroness. In consequence of that
influence, she is not so ingenuous as she was two years ago. I do not think that the withholding
of her confidence does proceed wholly from indolence, though it may partly arise, as the Prince
suggests, from the entire confidence which she reposes in her present Ministers, making her
inattentive to the plans and measures proposed, and thinking it unnecessary entirely to comprehend
them; she is of necessity unable to impart their views and projects to him who ought to be
her friend and counsellor."

    [Footnote 23: Baroness Lehzen.]

[Pageheading: OXFORD'S ATTEMPT]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

CARLTON TERRACE, 10th June 1840.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and though your Majesty must
be overwhelmed with congratulations at your Majesty's escape from the aim of the assassin,[24]
yet Viscount Palmerston trusts that he may be allowed to express the horror with which he heard
of the diabolical attempt, and the deep thankfulness which he feels at your Majesty's providential
preservation.

Viscount Palmerston humbly trusts that the failure of this atrocious attempt may be considered
as an indication that your Majesty is reserved for a long and prosperous reign, and is destined
to assure, for many years to come, the welfare and happiness of this nation.

    [Footnote 24: Edward Oxford, a pot-boy, aged eighteen, fired
    twice at the Queen on Constitution Hill. The Queen, who was
    untouched either shot, immediately drove to the Duchess of
    Kent's house to announce her safety. On his trial, Oxford was
    found to be insane.]

The King of the French to Queen Victoria.

11 Juin 1840.

MADAME MA S[OE]UR,--C'est avec une profonde indignation que je viens d'apprendre l'horrible
attentat qui a menacé les précieux jours de votre Majesté. Je rends grâce du fond de mon c[oe]ur
à la Divine Providence qui les a miraculeusement conservés, et qui semble n'avoir permis qu'ils
fussent exposés à un si grand danger, que pour faire briller aux yeux de tous, votre courage,
votre sang-froid, et toutes les qualités qui vous distinguent.

J'ose espérer que votre Majesté me permettra de recourir à son entremise pour offrir à S.A.R.
le Prince Albert, l'expression de tous les sentiments dont je suis pénétré, et qu'elle voudra
bien recevoir l'assurance de tous ceux que je lui porte, ainsi que celle de ma haute estime,
de mon inaltérable attachement et de mon inviolable amitié.

11th June 1840.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and returns your Majesty many, many
thanks for your letter. Lord Melbourne was indeed most anxious to learn that your Majesty was
well this morning. It was indeed a most awful and providential escape. It is impossible not
to shudder at the thought of it.

Lord Melbourne thinks that it will be necessary to have an examination of this man before such
of your Majesty's confidential servants as are of the Privy Council;[25] it should take place
this morning.

Addresses will be moved in both Houses immediately upon their meeting.

    [Footnote 25: I.e., the Cabinet.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 13th June 1840.

MY DEAREST AND MOST BELOVED VICTORIA,--I cannot find words strong enough to express to you
my horror at what happened on the 10th, and my happiness and delight to see your escape from
a danger which was really very great. In your good little heart I hope that it made you feel
grateful to God for a protection which was very signal. It does good and is a consolation to
think that matters are not quite left to take care of themselves, but that an all-powerful
Hand guides them.

Louise I told the affair mildly, as it might have made too great an impression on her otherwise.
She always feels so much for you and loves you so much, that she was rejoiced beyond measure
that you escaped so well and took the thing with so much courage. That you have shown great
fortitude is not to be doubted, and will make a very great and good impression. I see that
the general feeling is excellent, but what a melancholy thing to see a young man, without provocation,
capable of such a diabolical act! That attempts of that sort took place against George III.,
and even George IV., one can comprehend; but you have not only been extremely liberal, but
in no instance have you hitherto come into contact with any popular feeling or prejudice; besides,
one should think that your being a lady would alone prevent such unmanly conduct. It shows
what an effect bad example and the bad press have.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--Your dear letter of the 19th greatly delighted me....

Let me now add a few words on politics. The secret way in which the arrangement about the arbitration
of the Turco-Egyptian affairs has been signed, the keeping out of France in an affair so near
it and touching its interests in various ways, has had here a very disastrous effect.[26] I
cannot disguise from you that the consequences may be very serious, and the more so as the
Thiers Ministry is supported by the movement party, and as reckless of consequences as your
own Minister for Foreign Affairs, even much more so, as Thiers himself would not be sorry to
see everything existing upset. He is strongly impregnated with all the notions of fame and
glory which belonged to part of the Republican and the Imperial times; he would not even be
much alarmed at the idea of a Convention ruling again France, as he thinks that he would be
the man to rule the Assembly, and has told me last year that he thinks it for France perhaps
the most powerful form of Government.[27]

The mode in this affair ought to have been, as soon as the Four Powers had agreed on a proposition,
to communicate it officially to France, to join it. France had but two ways, either to join
or to refuse its adhesion. If it had chosen the last, it would have been a free decision on
her part, and a secession which had nothing offensive in the eyes of the nation.

But there is a material difference between leaving a company from motives of one's own, or
being kicked out of it. I must beg you to speak seriously to Lord Melbourne, who is the head
of your Government, on these important affairs; they may upset everything in Europe if the
mistake is not corrected and moderated.

I shall write again to you next Friday from hence, and on Saturday, 1st August, we set off.
Ever, my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 26: On the 15th of July a convention was signed in
    London by representatives of England, Russia, Austria, and
    Prussia, offering an ultimatum to the Viceroy of Egypt. The
    exclusion of France was hotly resented in Paris. Guizot,
    then Ambassador in London, had been kept in ignorance of the
    project, but the Foreign Secretary, Lord Palmerston, denied
    that there had been any discourtesy intended, or want of
    consideration shown.]

    [Footnote 27: Louis Adolphe Thiers (1797-1877), who through
    the Press had contributed to the downfall of the Bourbons, had
    held various Cabinet offices under Louis Philippe, and, from
    March to October 1840, was for the second time Premier.]

[Pageheading: PRINCE LOUIS NAPOLEON]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

7th August 1840. (10 P.M.)

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. The House of Lords lasted until eight,
and Lord Melbourne might by an exertion have got to the Palace to dinner, but as he had the
Speech, by no means an easy one, to prepare for the consideration of the Cabinet to-morrow,
he thought it better to take this evening for that purpose, and he hopes therefore that your
Majesty will excuse his not coming, which is to him a great sacrifice to have made.

Your Majesty will have probably seen by this time the report from your Majesty's Consul at
Boulogne of the mad attempt of Louis Bonaparte.[28] It is rather unfortunate that it should
have taken place at this moment, as the violent and excited temper of the French nation will
certainly lead them to attribute it to England. It will also be highly embarrassing to the
King of the French to have in his possession a member of the family of Bonaparte and so many
Bonapartists who have certainly deserved death but whom it may not be prudent or politic to
execute.

    [Footnote 28: The Prince, afterwards the Emperor Napoleon
    III., descended on Boulogne with fifty-three persons, and
    a tame eagle which had been intended, with stage effect, to
    alight on the Colonne de Napoléon. He was captured, tried
    for high treason, and sentenced to perpetual imprisonment. He
    effected his escape, which was undoubtedly connived at by the
    authorities, in 1846.]

[Pageheading: THE CONVENTION OF 1828]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

WIESBADEN, 22nd September 1840.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I was most happy in receiving this morning per messenger your dear little
letter of the 15th, though it is grown a little elderly. The life one leads here is not favourable
to writing, which, besides, is prohibited, and easily gives me palpitation enough to sing "di
tanti palpiti!" I get up at half after six and begin to drink this hot water; what with drinking
and walking one comes to ten o'clock or half after ten for breakfast. Then I read papers and
such like things. At one o'clock I have been generally bored with some visit or other till
two o'clock. I try to finish some writing, and then I walk and ride out till dinner-time, generally
at seven. In the evening I have written sometimes, but it certainly does one harm. You see
that there remains but little time for writing.

I am most happy to find that you are well; the papers, which don't know what to invent to lower
the Funds, said that you had been unwell on the 10th, which, God be praised! is not at all true.

I pity poor Princess Augusta[29] from all my heart. I am sure that if she had in proper time
taken care of herself she might have lived to a great age. I have not time to-day to write
at any length on the politics of the day, but I am far from thinking that the French acted
wisely in the Oriental affair. I must say that I think the King meant well, but I should not
have abstained from the Conference as he did, though, in France, interference with Mehemet
Ali was certainly not popular. In England much of the fond is logical, but the form towards
France was, and is still, harsh and insulting. I don't think France, which these ten years
behaved well, and the poor King, who was nearly murdered I don't remember how often, deserved
to be treated so unkindly, and all that seemingly to please the great Autocrat. We must not
forget what were the fruits of the first Convention of July 1828--I think the 16th or 26th
of that month; I ought to remember it, as I took its name in vain often enough in the Greek affair.

This first Convention brought about the battle of Navarino and the second campaign of the Russians,
which ended with, in fact, the demise of the poor old Porte, the Treaty of Adrianople.[30]
Your Majesty was then afflicted with the age of ten, in itself a good age, and may not remember
much about it except that in 1829 the affair about my going to Greece began, and that your
affectionate heart took some interest in that. Lord Melbourne, however, you must encourage
to speak about this matter. Canning's intention was this: he said we must remain with Russia,
and by this means prevent mischief. The Duke of Wellington, who came to me shooting at Claremont
in 1828, really did cry, though he is not of a crying disposition, and said "by this Convention
the Russians will have the power of doing all they never would have dared to do single-handed,
and shielded by this infernal Convention, it will not be in our power to stop them." Russia
is again in this very snug and comfortable position, that the special protection of the Porte
is confided to its tender mercies--la chèvre gardant le chou, the wolf the sheep, as I suppose
I must not compare the Turcs to lambs. The Power which ruined the Ottoman Empire, which since
a hundred and forty years nearly pared it all round nearly in every direction, is to be the
protector and guardian of that same empire; and we are told that it is the most scandalous
calumny to suspect the Russians to have any other than the most humane and disinterested views!
"ainsi soit-il," as the French say at the end of their sermons. This part of the Convention
of the 15th of July 1840 strikes impartial people as strange, the more so as nothing lowers
the Porte so much in the eyes of the few patriotic Turks who remain than the protection of
the arch-enemy of the concern, Russia. I beg you to read this part of my letter to my good
and dear friend, Lord Melbourne, to whom I beg to be kindly remembered.

    [Footnote 29: Princess Augusta, second daughter of George III.
    See p. 230. (Ch. IX, 26th September 1840)]

    [Footnote 30: Under this treaty (14th September 1829) the
    Danubian principalities were made virtually independent
    States, the treaty rights of Russia in the navigation of the
    Bosphorus and Dardanelles were confirmed, and Greek affairs
    were arranged, by incorporating in the treaty the terms of the
    Protocol of 22nd March 1829.]

[Pageheading: A THREATENED CRISIS]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Melbourne.[31]

WINDSOR CASTLE, 26th September 1840.

This is certainly awkward; but the latter part about Peel is most absurd; to him I can never
apply, we must do everything but that. But for God's sake do not bring on a crisis;[32] the
Queen really could not go through that now, and it might make her seriously ill if she were
to be kept in a state of agitation and excitement if a crisis were to come on; she has had
already so much lately in the distressing illness of her poor Aunt to harass her. I beseech
you, think of all this, and the consequences it might cause, not only to me, but to all Europe,
as it would show our weakness in a way that would be seriously injurious to this country.

    [Footnote 31: The letter, to which this is a reply, seems not
    to have been preserved. The Queen's letter, having been shown
    to Lord John Russell and copied by him, has hitherto been
    supposed to be a letter from Lord Melbourne to Lord John
    Russell. See Walpole's Russell, vol. i., chap. xiii.]

    [Footnote 32: The Cabinet met on the 28th to consider
    the Oriental Question. The Government was on the verge of
    dissolution, as Lord Palmerston and Lord John Russell were in
    conflict. The meeting was adjourned till 1st October.]

[Pageheading: FRANCE AND THE EAST]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 26th September 1840.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have unfortunately very little time to-day, but I will try and answer
your kind letters of the 13th and 19th briefly. You know now that the sufferings of good excellent
Aunt Augusta were terminated on the 22nd of this month. I regret her very, very sincerely,
though for herself we are all most thankful for the release of such unexampled sufferings,
borne with such unexampled patience. Almost the last thing she said when she was still conscious,
the day before she died, was to Mr More (the apothecary), who wrote me every morning a Report:
"Have you written to my darling?" Is this not touching? The Queen-Dowager had her hand in hers
when she died, and closed her eyes when all was over; all the Family were present.

I have seen your letters to Palmerston, and his answer to you, and I also send you a paper
from Lord Melbourne. I assure you that I do give these affairs my most serious attention: it
would be indeed most desirable if France could come back to us, and I think what Metternich
suggests very sagacious and well-judged.[33] You must allow me to state that France has put
herself into this unfortunate state. I know (as I saw all the papers) how she was engaged to
join us--and I know how strangely she refused; I know also, that France agrees in the principle,
but only doubts the efficacy of the measures. Where then is "La France outragée"? wherefore
arm when there is no enemy? wherefore raise the war-cry? But this has been done, and has taken
more effect than I think the French Government now like; and now she has to undo all this and
to calm the general agitation and excitement, which is not so easy. Still, though France is
in the wrong, and quite in the wrong, still I am most anxious, as I am sure my Government also
are, that France should be pacified and should again take her place amongst the five Powers.
I am sure she might easily do this....

Albert, who sends his love, is much occupied with the Eastern affairs, and is quite of my opinion....

    [Footnote 33: Metternich's suggestion was that if other
    means of coercion failed, the allies should renew their
    deliberations in conjunction with France.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 30th September 1840.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. He is quite well, and will be ready
at half-past one.

The Prince's[34] observations are just, but still the making an advance to France now, coupled
with our constant inability to carry into effect the terms of our Convention, will be an humiliating
step.

Lord Melbourne sends a letter which he has received this morning from Lord Normanby, whom he
had desired to see Lord Palmerston and Lord John Russell, and try what he could do.

Lord Melbourne also sends a letter which he has received from Lord Lansdowne.

Lord Melbourne would beg your Majesty to return them both.

    [Footnote 34: Prince Metternich.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

DOWNING STREET, 1st October 1840.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. We have had the Cabinet and it has
passed over quietly. We have agreed to make a proposition to France founded upon the communication
of Prince Metternich to the King of the Belgians.[35] Palmerston will propose to-morrow to
Neumann,[36] the Prussian Minister, and Brunnow,[37] that he should write to Granville, authorising
him to acquaint Thiers that if France will concur in respecting the principle of the treaty,
we, without expecting her to adopt coercive measures, will concert with her the further course
to be adopted for the purpose of carrying the principle into effect. This is so far so good.
Lord Melbourne trusts that it will get over the present entanglement, but of course we must
expect that in a matter so complicated and which we have not the power of immediately terminating,
further difficulties will arise.

    [Footnote 35: See p. 231. (Ch. IX, Footnote 33)]

    [Footnote 36: Austrian Minister.]

    [Footnote 37: Russian Minister.]

[Pageheading: MEHEMET ALI]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. This makes it impossible for us to take the step in the
way we proposed, but we have now settled that Palmerston should direct Granville to submit
the proposition to Thiers, and ask him how he would be disposed to receive it if it were formally
made to him. This, so far as we are concerned, will have all the effect which could have been
attained in the other way.

Very important despatches of the 14th inst. have come from Constantinople. The Ministers of
the Porte held the last proposition of Mehemet Ali as a positive refusal of the terms of the
Convention, and proceeded by the advice of Lord Ponsonby[39] at once to divest Mehemet Ali
of the Pashalik of Egypt; to direct a blockade of the coasts both of Syria and Egypt, and to
recall the four Consuls from Alexandria. These are serious measures, and there are despatches
from Lord Beauvale[40] stating that Prince Metternich is much alarmed at them, and thinks that
measures should be immediately taken to diminish and guard against the effect which they may
have in France. Lord Melbourne humbly begs your Majesty's pardon for this hurried scrawl upon
matters of such importance, but Lord Melbourne will have the opportunity of speaking to your
Majesty more fully upon them to-morrow.

    [Footnote 38: The peace party in the Cabinet were defeated and
    Palmerston triumphant.]

    [Footnote 39: British Ambassador at Constantinople.]

    [Footnote 40: Frederick James Lamb, younger brother of Lord
    Melbourne, and his successor in the title (1782-1853). He
    was at this time Ambassador at Vienna, having previously been
    Ambassador at Lisbon.]

[Pageheading: PALMERSTON AND FRANCE]

[Pageheading: VIEWS OF LOUIS PHILIPPE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

WIESBADEN, 2nd October 1840.

... There is an idea that Mehemet Ali suffers from what one calls un charbon, a sort of dangerous
ulcer which, with old people, is never without some danger. If this is true, it only shows
how little one can say that the Pashalik of Aleppo is to decide who is to be the master of
the Ottoman Empire in Europe and Asia, the Sultan or Mehemet? It is highly probable that if
the old gentleman dies, his concern will go to pieces; a division will be attempted by the
children, but that in the East hardly ever succeeds. There everything is personal, except the
sort of Caliphate which the Sultan possesses, and when the man is gone, his empire also goes.
Runjeet Singh[41] is a proof of this; his formidable power will certainly go to the dogs, though
the Sikhs have a social link which does not exist in the Egyptian concern. If we now were to
set everything in Europe on a blaze, have a war which may change totally all that now exists,
and in the midst of it we should hear that Mehemet is no more, and his whole boutique broken
up, would it not be really laughable, if it was not melancholy? And still the war once raging,
it would no longer put a stop to it, but go on for other reasons.

I cannot understand what has rendered Palmerston so extremely hostile to the King and Government
of France. A little civility would have gone a great way with the French; if in your Speech
on the 11th of August some regret had been expressed, it would have greatly modified the feelings
of the French. But Palmerston likes to put his foot on their necks! Now, no statesman must
triumph over an enemy that is not quite dead, because people forget a real loss, a real misfortune,
but they won't forget an insult. Napoleon made great mistakes that way; he hated Prussia, insulted
it on all occasions, but still left it alive. The consequence was that in 1813 they rose to
a man in Prussia, even children and women took arms, not only because they had been injured,
but because they had been treated with contempt and insulted. I will here copy what the King
wrote to me lately from Paris:

"Vous ne vous faites pas d'idée à quel point l'approbation publique soutient les armements,
c'est universel. Je regrette que cela aille bien au-delà, car la fureur contre l'Angleterre
s'accroît et un des points que je regrette le plus, c'est que tout notre peuple est persuadé
que l'Angleterre veut réduire la France au rang de Puissance secondaire, et vous savez ce que
c'est que l'orgueil national et la vanité de tous les peuples. Je crois donc bien urgent que
la crise actuelle se termine bientôt pacifiquement. Plus je crois que l'union de l'Angleterre
et de la France est la base du repos du monde, plue je regrette de voir susciter tant d'irritation
entre nos deux Nations. La question est de savoir ce que veut véritablement le Gouvernement
Anglais. J'avoue que je ne suis pas sans crainte et sans inquiétude à cet égard quand je récapitule
dans ma tête tout ce que Lord Ponsonby a fait pour l'allumer et tout ce qu'il fait encore.
Je n'aurais aucune inquiétude si je croyais que le Gouvernement suivrait la voix de sa Nation,
et les véritables intérêts de son pays qui repoussent l'alliance Russe et indiquent celle de
la France, ce qui est tout-à-fait conforme à mes v[oe]ux personnels. Mais ma vieille expérience
me rappelle ce que font les passions personnelles, qui prédominent bien plus de nos jours que
les véritables intérêts, et ce que peut le Gouvernement Anglais pour entraîner son pays, et
je crains beaucoup l'art de la Russie ou plutôt de l'Empereur Nicolas de captiver, par les
plus immenses flatteries, les Ministres Anglais, preuve Lord Durham. Or si ces deux Gouvernements
veulent ou osent entreprendre l'abaissement de la France, la guerre s'allumera, et pour mon
compte alors je m'y jetterai à outrance, mais si comme je l'espère encore, malgré mes soupçons,
ils ne veulent pas la guerre, alors l'affaire de l'Orient, s'arrangera à l'amiable, et le cri
de toutes les Nations fera de nouveau justice de ces humeurs belliqueuses et consolidera la
paix générale, comme cela est arrivé dans les premières années de mon règne."

I think it right to give you this extract, as it is written from the very bottom of the King's
heart, and shows the way in which he considers the present position of affairs. Perhaps you
will be so kind to read it or to let it be read by Lord Melbourne. It is this abaissement de
la France which now sticks in their throats. Chartres[42] has quite the same feeling, and then
the refrain is, plutôt périr que de souffrir cette ignominie!

Really my paper is abominable, but it is a great shame that in the residence of such a rich
Prince nothing can be had. My letter being long, I conclude it with my best blessings. Ever,
my dearest Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 41: Runjeet Singh, known as the Lion of the Punjab,
    had died in 1839, having consolidated the Sikh power. As an
    outcome of the Sikh wars in 1846 and 1848, the Punjab was
    annexed by Great Britain in 1849.]

    [Footnote 42: Ferdinand, Duke of Orléans, who died 13th July
    1842, was generally called Chartres in the family circle; this
    title, which he had previously borne, was conferred on his
    younger son, born 9th November 1840.]

[Pageheading: NEGOTIATIONS WITH FRANCE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. The King's letter to Lord Melbourne is in many respects
just and true.[43] The practical measure which it recommends, namely, that Lord Granville should
make to Thiers a general proposition for settling the whole matter, is very much the same as
that which we agreed upon at the Cabinet should be adopted. Lord Melbourne expects that this
has been carried into effect, and if it has not, Lord Melbourne has urged that it should be
done without delay.

These affairs are very troublesome and vexatious, but they are, unfortunately, more than troublesome,
they are pregnant with danger.

    [Footnote 43: The King of the Belgians had written a letter
    to Lord Melbourne on 1st October, which he had sent to
    Queen Victoria, asking her to read it and forward it to Lord
    Melbourne.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

WIESBADEN, 6th October 1840.

... It is to-day the poor King of the French's birthday; he is sixty-seven years old, and these
last ten years he has had a pleasant time of it. And now he has this serious and difficult
complication to deal with, and still I find him always fair and amiable in his way of looking
at all these things, and bearing the almost unbearable annoyance and plagues of his arduous
position with a degree of firmness and courage worthy of kinder treatment from the European
Powers than he has received....

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. Lord John Russell has directed a Cabinet to be summoned
for to-morrow at three o'clock, at which he intends to propose that "Instructions should be
sent to Lord Granville to ascertain from the French Government what terms France would consider
satisfactory for the immediate arrangement of the affairs of the East."

That if such terms shall appear satisfactory, Mr Henry Bulwer[44] or some person of similar
rank should be sent to Constantinople to urge their acceptance on the Sultan, and that our
Allies should be invited to co-operate in that negotiation.

That the French Government should be informed that the only mode in which the pacification
can be carried into effect is by Mehemet Ali's accepting the terms of the treaty and then receiving
from the Sultan the terms which shall have been previously agreed upon by his Allies.

Lord Melbourne feels certain that Lord Palmerston will not accede to these proposals, and indeed
Lord Melbourne himself much doubts whether, after all that has passed, it would be right to
submit the whole matter, as it were, to the decision and arbitration of France. Lord John Russell
seems very much determined to press this question to a decision to-morrow, and Lord Melbourne
much fears that such a decision may lead to serious consequences.

Lord Melbourne is much grieved to have to send your Majesty intelligence which he knows will
greatly disquiet your Majesty, but there is no remedy for it.

Lord Melbourne's lumbago is somewhat better to-day but not much. His being compelled to attend
at the House of Lords yesterday prevented him from recovering. He has remained in bed to-day,
and hopes to be better to-morrow. He will do all he can to put everything together, and it
does not appear to him that there is any necessity on any side for a decisive step at present.
A letter is arrived to-day from Bulwer, which states that the instructions given to Guizot
are, through the interposition of the King, of a very pacific character. It would surely be
well to see what they are, and whether they will not afford the means of arranging the whole
affair.

Lord Melbourne thought with your Majesty that the letter to Lord Granville upon Prince Metternich's
proposition was a great deal too short and dry and slight, but the importance of this step
is now a good deal superseded by what has taken place, and the position of affairs has already
become different from that in which it was resolved upon.

Lord Melbourne very much thanks the Prince for his letter, which may do much service and have
an effect upon the antagonists.

Lord Melbourne has just seen Dr Holland.[45] Lord Melbourne is very much crippled and disabled.
Lord Melbourne does not think that the shooting has had anything to do with it. His stomach
has lately been out of order, which is always the cause of these sort of attacks. Lord Melbourne
will come down on Sunday if he possibly can, and unless he should be still disabled from moving.

    [Footnote 45: Dr (afterwards Sir) Henry Holland,
    Physician-in-Ordinary to the Queen, 1850-1873, father of Lord
    Knutsford.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. ... All the question at the Cabinet to-day as to whether
we should write a communication to France was fortunately put an end to by Guizot desiring
to see Palmerston in the morning and making a communication to him. This communication is very
much in substance what Mr. Bulwer's note had led us to expect. It is a strong condemnation
of the act of the Porte depriving Mehemet Ali of the Government of Egypt, an expression of
satisfaction at having already learned from Lord Palmerston and Count Apponyi[46] that Austria
and England are not prepared to consider this act as irrevocable, and a threat on the part
of France that he considers the power of Mehemet Ali in Egypt a constituent part of the balance
of Europe, and that he cannot permit him to be deprived of that province without interfering.
It was determined that this intimation should be met in an amicable spirit, and that Lord Palmerston
should see the Ministers of the other Powers and agree with them to acquaint the French that
they with England would use their good offices to induce the Porte not to insist upon the deprivation
of Mehemet Ali as far as Egypt is concerned. Lord Melbourne hopes that this transaction may
lead to a general settlement of the whole question.

Lord Melbourne feels himself much fatigued to-night. Though better, he is yet far from well,
and he knows by experience that this malady when once it lays hold of him does not easily let
go. It was so when he was younger. He fears, therefore, that it will not be prudent for him
to leave town so early as Monday, but will do so as soon as he can with safety.

    [Footnote 46: Born 1782; at this time the Austrian Ambassador
    in France.]

[Pageheading: MEHEMET ALI]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

PANSHANGER, 11th October 1840.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty.

Viscount Palmerston submits to your Majesty some interesting letters, which he received some
days ago from Paris, showing that there never has been any real foundation for the alarm of
war with France which was felt by some persons in this country.

Viscount Palmerston also submits a despatch from Mons. Thiers to Mons. Guizot which was communicated
to him yesterday by Mons. Guizot, and which seems to open a prospect of an amicable and satisfactory
understanding between France and the Four Powers.

Viscount Palmerston also submits a note from Mr Bulwer intimating that the French Government
would be contented with an arrangement which should leave Mehemet Ali in possession of Egypt
alone, without any part of Syria, and Viscount Palmerston submits that such is the arrangement
which it would on all accounts be desirable to accomplish. There seems reason to think that
the bombardment of Beyrout[47] and the deposal of Mehemet Ali by the Sultan have greatly contributed
to render the French more reasonable on this question, by exciting in their minds an apprehension
that unless some arrangement be speedily effected, the operations now going on in the Levant
will end in the entire overthrow of Mehemet Ali.

    [Footnote 47: On 10th October Ibrahim was defeated by
    the Allies, and next day Beyrout was occupied by British,
    Austrian, and Turkish troops.]

[Pageheading: GUIZOT AND THIERS]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He has not written before to-day, because he had nothing
new to lay before your Majesty. Lord Melbourne anxiously hopes she feels some confidence that
the present state of the Eastern affairs is such as may lead to a speedy, amicable termination--at
the same time, with a nation so irritable as the French, and with the Constitution which they
have and which they are unused to exercise, it is impossible to feel secure for a moment. Guizot,
when he gave the despatch of Thiers to Lord Palmerston, said that he had nothing to do with
the reasonings of that despatch, and would not enter into any argument upon them.

He delivered them only in his official capacity as the Ambassador of the King of France. All
he would say was that they were the result of a great effort of that party in France which
was for peace. This was a sufficient intimation that he himself did not approve of them, but
it was not possible to collect from what he said upon what grounds his dissent was founded.
Lord Melbourne has since heard that he says, that he considers that France has taken too low
a tone and has made too much concession, and that he could not have been a party to this step
if he had been one of the King's Ministers. The step is also probably contrary to the declared
opinion of M. Thiers; whether it be contrary to his real opinion is another question. But if
it was written principally by the influence of the King, it is a measure at once bold and friendly
upon his part, and the success of which will much depend upon its being met in an amicable
spirit here.

Lord Melbourne returns the letter of the King of the Belgians. Lord Melbourne kept it because
he wished to show it to Lord John Russell, and some others, as containing an authentic statement
of the feelings of the King of the French, which it is well that they should know....

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 12th October 1840.

The Queen in returning these letters must express to Lord Palmerston her very great satisfaction
at the favourable turn affairs have taken, and the Queen earnestly trusts that this demonstration
of returning amity on the part of France will be met in a very friendly spirit by Lord Palmerston
and the rest of her Government. The Queen feels certain that this change on the part of France
is also greatly owing to the peaceable disposition of the King of the French, and she thinks
that in consideration of the difficulties the King has had to contend with, and which he seems
finally to have overcome, we should make some return; and indeed, as Lord Palmerston states,
the arrangement proposed is the best which can be desired.

[Pageheading: FEELING IN FRANCE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He is much better to-day, free from pain and difficulty
of moving, but he thinks that it would not be prudent, and that he should run the risk of bringing
back the complaint, if he should leave town to-morrow.

He thinks it might also be imprudent in another point of view, as affairs are still in a very
unsettled state, and the rest of the Cabinet watch with great impatience, and, to say the truth,
not without suspicion, the manner in which Palmerston will carry into effect the decision of
Saturday. They are particularly anxious for speed, and I have written both last night and this
morning to Palmerston, to urge him not to delay. He will go down to Windsor to-morrow, and
your Majesty will then have an opportunity of speaking to him, upon which Lord Melbourne will
write again to your Majesty.

Guizot has been with Lord Melbourne this morning for the purpose of repeating what he had before
said to Palmerston, that the Note which he delivered on Saturday was the result of a great
effort made by the party who are for peace, that it had been conquered against a strong opposition,
that if it were not taken advantage of here now, it would not be renewed, that the conduct
of affairs in France would probably fall into the hands of the violent party, and that it would
be no longer possible to control the excited feelings of the people of France.

The worst is that Palmerston, and John Russell, with now the greater part of the Cabinet, proceed
upon principles, opinions, and expectations which are entirely different from one another,
and which therefore necessarily lead to a different course of action. We are anxious to finish
the business speedily, because we fear that there is danger of the Government of France being
forced into violent measures by popular outcry. Palmerston, on the contrary, thinks that there
is no danger of war, that the French do not mean war, and that there is no feeling in France
but what has been produced by the Ministry and their instruments the Press.

We are anxious that the opportunity should be seized now whilst we have the appearance of success
in Syria, not being at all confident of the ultimate result. Palmerston, on the contrary, is
so confident of complete success, that he wishes to delay concluding the affair until he can
have the benefit of the full advantages, which he anticipates, in the negotiation.

We should be too glad to see the matter settled, leaving Mehemet Ali in possession of Egypt.

Palmerston has both the wish and the hope of getting him out of Egypt, as well as Syria.

These great differences of view, object, and expectation render it difficult for those who
hold them to pursue the same line of conduct.

There is also, as your Majesty knows, much suspicion, distrust and irritation, and all these
circumstances throw great obstacles in the way of the progress of affairs, but Lord Melbourne
hopes that they will all be overcome, and that we shall arrive at a safe conclusion.

[Pageheading: RELATIONS WITH FRANCE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. It is absolutely necessary that we should have a Cabinet
on Thursday. There is so much natural impatience, and so deep an interest taken in what is
now going on, that it cannot be avoided....

Your Majesty will naturally seize this opportunity of stating strongly to Palmerston your wishes
that this opportunity should be taken advantage of, with a view to the speedy accommodation
of the whole difference. Your Majesty will see the necessity of at the same time not appearing
to take too much the part of France, which might irritate and indispose.

Your Majesty will find John Russell perfectly right and reasonable. He was before somewhat
embarrassed by the position in which he was placed. Having agreed to the Convention, it was
difficult for him to take steps which might appear to be in departure from its policy, and
to be occasioned by the gravity of its consequences. But this step upon the part of France
will enable all the friends of peace to act cordially together. John Russell thinks that you
have not been put fully in possession of his sentiments. Lord Melbourne thinks this is not
the case; but it would be well if your Majesty would try to efface this impression from his
mind as much as possible.

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

13th October 1840.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,-- ... I have three kind letters of yours unanswered before me, of the 1st,
2nd, and 6th, for which many thanks. My time is very short indeed to-day, but Albert has, I
know, written to you about the favourable turn which the Oriental affairs have taken, and of
the proposition of France, which is very amicably received here; Austria and Prussia are quite
ready to agree, but Brunnow has been making already difficulties (this is in confidence to
you). I hope and trust that this will at length settle the affair, and that peace, the blessings
of which are innumerable, will be preserved. I feel we owe much of the change of the conduct
of France to the peaceable disposition of the dear King, for which I feel grateful.[48] Pray,
dear Uncle, when an opportunity offers, do offer the King my best, sincerest wishes for his
health and happiness in every way, on the occasion of his birthday; may he live many years,
for the benefit of all Europe!...

    [Footnote 48: The King of the French was alarmed at the
    warlike language of his Ministers. He checked the preparations
    for war which Thiers was making; he went further, and on
    the 24th of October he dismissed the Thiers Ministry, and
    entrusted the management of affairs to Soult and Guizot,
    who were pacifically inclined and anxious to preserve the
    Anglo-French entente.]

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S INFLUENCE]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 16th October 1840.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I received your kind but anxious letter of the 10th, the day before yesterday,
and hasten to reply to it by the courier who goes to-day. Indeed, dearest Uncle, I have worked
hard this last week to bring about something conciliatory, and I hope and trust I have succeeded.
Lord Melbourne, who left Claremont on the same day as we did, was confined to the house till
yesterday, when he arrived here, by a lumbago and bilious attack; but I had a constant correspondence
with him on this unfortunate and alarming question, and he is, I can assure you, fully aware
of the danger, and as anxious as we are to set matters right; and so is Lord John, and Palmerston,
I hope, is getting more reasonable. They have settled in consequence of Thiers' two despatches
that Palmerston should write to Lord Ponsonby to urge the Porte not to dispossess Mehemet Ali
finally of Egypt, and I believe the other foreign Ministers at Constantinople will receive
similar instructions; this despatch Palmerston will send to Granville (to-night, I believe)
to be communicated to Thiers, and I have made Palmerston promise to put into the despatch to
Granville "that it would be a source of great satisfaction to England, if this would be the
cause of bringing back France to that alliance (with the other Four Powers) from which we had
seen her depart with so much regret." I hope this will have a good effect. Now, in my humble
opinion (but this I say of myself and without anybody's knowledge), if France, upon this, were
to make some sort of advance, and were to cease arming, I think all would do; for you see,
if France goes on arming, we shall hardly be justified in not doing the same, and that would
be very bad. Couldn't you suggest this to the King and Thiers, as of yourself? My anxiety is
great for the return of amity and concord, I can assure you. I think our child ought to have
besides its other names those of Turco Egypto, as we think of nothing else! I had a long talk
with Palmerston on Wednesday, and also with J. Russell.

I hope I have done good. The Dutch don't like the abdication. I'm so sorry for poor little
Paris![49]

Pray excuse this dreadful scrawl, but I am so hurried. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 49: The Comte de Paris, born 24th August 1838,
    eldest son of Ferdinand, Duke of Orleans, who was Louis
    Philippe's eldest son.]

[Pageheading: ATTEMPT ON LOUIS PHILIPPE]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 17th October 1840.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--You will, I am sure, have been very much shocked on hearing that on the
15th there was a new attempt made to kill the poor good King at Paris.[50] The place was cleverly
chosen, as the King generally puts his head out of the carriage window to bow to the guard.
I join the letter which he had the goodness to forward us through an estafette.[51] May this
melancholy attentat impress on your Ministers the necessity of aiding the King in his arduous
task.... You will have the goodness to show this letter to Albert.

Louise was much alarmed when it arrived at such an unusual hour; it was ten o'clock. At first
we thought it might be something about poor little Paris, who is not yet so well as one could wish.

We have gloomy miserable weather, and I feel much disgusted with this part of the world. Ever,
my beloved Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 50: The King was fired at as he was leaving the
    Tuileries, by Darmes, a Marseillais. As Croker wrote to Lord
    Brougham on the 31st of October 1840:--"Poor Louis Philippe
    lives the life of a mad dog, and will soon, I fear, suffer the
    death of that general object of every man's shot."]

    [Footnote 51: Express messenger.]

[Pageheading: FRANCE AND EGYPT]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 20th October 1840.

MY MOST BELOVED VICTORIA,--I must write to you a few lines by M. Drouet, who returns to-morrow
morning to England. God bless you for the great zeal you have mis en action for our great work,
the maintenance of peace; it is one of the greatest importance for everything worth caring
for in Europe. You know well that no personal interest guides me in my exertions; I am in fact
bored with being here, and shall ever regret to have remained in these regions, when I might
so easily have gone myself to the Orient, the great object of my predilection.

I never shall advise anything which would be against the interests and honour of yourself,
your Government, or your country, in which I have so great a stake myself. The great thing
now is not to refuse to negotiate with France, even if it should end in nothing. Still for
the King Louis Philippe there is an immense strength and facility in that word "nous négocions";
with this he may get over the opening of the session, and this once done, one may hope to come
to a conclusion. Since I wrote to Lord Melbourne to-day, I have received a letter from the
King, of the 19th, i.e. yesterday, in which he tells me, "Pourvu qu'il y ait, pour commencer,
des négociations, cela me donne une grande force."

I have written yesterday to him most fully a letter he may show Thiers also concerning the
armaments. I think that my arguments will make some impression on Thiers. The King writes me
word that by dint of great exertion he had brought Thiers to be more moderate. If it was possible
to bring France and Mehemet Ali to agree to the greatest part of the Treaty, it will be worth
while for everybody to consent. The way to bring France to join in some arrangement, and to
take the engagement to compel Mehemet to accept it, would be the best practical way to come
to a conclusion. It is probable, though I know nothing about it in any positive way, that the
efforts of getting possession of Syria will fail, if the country itself does not take up arms
on a large scale, which seems not to be believed.

To conclude then my somewhat hurried argumentation, the greatest thing is to negotiate. The
negotiation cannot now have the effect of weakening the execution as that goes on, and it may
have the advantage of covering the non-success if that should take place, which is at all events
possible if not probable. May I beg you to read these few confused words to Lord Melbourne
as a supplement of my letter to him. Darmes says that if Chartres had been with the King, he
would not have fired, but that his reason for wishing to kill the King was his conviction that
one could not hope for war till he was dead.

It is really melancholy to see the poor King taking this acharnement very much to heart, and
upon my word, the other Powers of Europe owe it to themselves and to him to do everything to
ease and strengthen his awful task.

What do you say to poor Christina's departure?[52] I am sorry for it, and for the poor children.
She is believed to be very rich.

Now I must conclude, but not without thanking you once more for your great and most laudable
exertions, and wishing you every happiness, which you so much deserve. Ever, my most beloved
Victoria, your devoted Uncle,

LEOPOLD R.

    [Footnote 52: Queen Christina abdicated the Regency of Spain,
    and went to Paris. In the following May General Espartero,
    Duke of Vittoria, was appointed sole Regent.]

[Pageheading: DEATH OF LORD HOLLAND]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 23rd October 1840.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for your two kind letters of the 17th and 20th. I have very
little time to-day, and it being besides not my regular day, I must beg you to excuse this
letter being very short. I return you the King's letters with bien des remercîments. It is
a horrid business. We have had accounts of successes on the Syrian coast. Guizot is here since
Wednesday, and goes this morning. Albert (who desires me to thank you for your kind letter)
has been talking to him, and so have I, and he promised in return for my expressions of sincere
anxiety to see matters raccommodées, to do all in his power to do so. "Je ne vais que pour
cela," he said.

We were much shocked yesterday at the sudden death of poor good, old Lord Holland.[53] I send
you Dr Holland's letter to Lord Melbourne about it. He is a great loss, and to Society an irreparable
one. I'm sure you will be sorry for it.

Mamma comes back sooner than the 31st. She is in great distress at poor Polly's death. You
will regret him. Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

Pray do try and get the King's Speech to be pacific, else Parliament must meet here in November,
which would be dreadful for me.

    [Footnote 53: Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, who,
    by reason of his social influence, great wealth, and high
    intellectual endowments, was one of the most efficient
    supporters of the Whig party.]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 26th October 1840.

... The Duke of Cambridge arrived, as you know, before yesterday evening, at Brussels. Your
Uncle visited him yesterday, and at six he came to Laeken to dine with us. I found him looking
well, and he was as usual very good-natured and kind. I need not tell you that conversation
did not flag between us, and that I thought of you almost the whole time. In the course of
the evening he took leave. He left Brussels this morning early, on his way to Calais, and I
suppose you will hear of him before this letter reaches you. He took charge of all my love
and hommages for you, dear Albert, and all the Royal Family. Before dinner the children were
presented to him (that is Leopold and Philippe), but I am sorry to say that poor Lippchen was
so much frightened with his appearance, loud voice, and black gloves, that he burst out crying,
and that we were obliged to send him away. The Duke took his shyness very kindly; but I am
still ashamed with his behaviour.

[Pageheading: NEWS FROM SYRIA]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

CARLTON TERRACE, 8th November 1840.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and in addition to the good news
from Syria, which confirms the defeat and dispersion of the forces, both of Ibrahim and of
Solyman Pasha, with the loss of 8,000 prisoners, 24 pieces of cannon, the whole of their camp,
baggage, and stores, followed by the flight of those two Generals with a small escort, he has
the satisfaction of informing your Majesty that the new French Ministers had a majority of
68, upon the vote for the election of the President of the Chamber.[54]

This majority, so far exceeding any previous calculation, seems to place the stability of the
Government beyond a doubt, though it must, of course, be expected that upon other questions
their majority will not be so overwhelming.

    [Footnote 54: M. Sauzet was elected in preference to M.
    Odillon Barrot. Thiers resigned the Premiership on 14th
    October; in the new Ministry Soult was President of the
    Council, Guizot Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Duchatel
    Minister of the Interior.]

[Pageheading: DISAFFECTION IN FRANCE]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

There is no doubt a large Party among the leading politicians in France, who have long contemplated
the establishment of a virtually, if not actually, independent State in Egypt and Syria, under
the direct protection and influence of France, and that Party feel great disappointment and
resentment at finding their schemes in this respect baffled. But that Party will not revenge
themselves on the Four Powers by making a revolution in France, and they are enlightened enough
to see that France cannot revenge herself by making war against the Four Powers, who are much
stronger than she is.

... But your Majesty may be assured that there is in France an immense mass of persons, possessed
of property, and engaged in pursuits of industry, who are decidedly adverse to unnecessary
war, and determined to oppose revolution. And although those persons have not hitherto come
prominently forward, yet their voice would have made itself heard, when the question of peace
or unprovoked war came practically to be discussed.

With regard to internal revolution, there is undoubtedly in France a large floating mass of
Republicans and Anarchists, ready at any moment to make a disturbance if there was no strong
power to resist them; but the persons who would lose by convulsion are infinitely more numerous,
and the National Guard of Paris, consisting of nearly 60,000 men, are chiefly persons of this
description, and are understood to be decidedly for internal order, and for external peace.

It is very natural that the French Government, after having failed to extort concessions upon
the Turkish Question, by menaces of foreign war, should now endeavour to obtain those concessions,
by appealing to fears of another kind, and should say that such concessions are necessary in
order to prevent revolution in France; but Viscount Palmerston would submit to your Majesty
his deep conviction that this appeal is not better founded than the other, and that a firm
and resolute perseverance on the part of the Four Powers, in the measures which they have taken
in hand, will effect a settlement of the affairs of Turkey, which will afford great additional
security for the future peace of Europe, without producing in the meantime either war with
France, or revolution in France.

France and the rest of Europe are entirely different now from what they were in 1792. The French
nation is as much interested now to avoid further revolution, as it was interested then in
ridding itself, by any means, of the enormous and intolerable abuses which then existed. France
then imagined she had much to gain by foreign war; France now knows she has everything to lose
by foreign war.

Europe then (at least the Continental States) had also a strong desire to get rid of innumerable
abuses which pressed heavily upon the people of all countries. Those abuses have now in general
been removed; the people in many parts of Germany have been admitted, more or less, to a share
in the management of their own affairs. A German feeling and a spirit of nationality has sprung
up among all the German people, and the Germans, instead of receiving the French as Liberators,
as many of them did in 1792-1793, would now rise as one man to repel a hateful invasion. Upon
all these grounds Viscount Palmerston deems it his duty to your Majesty to express his strong
conviction that the appeals made to your Majesty's good feelings by the King of the French,
upon the score of the danger of revolution in France, unless concessions are made to the French
Government, have no foundation in truth, and are only exertions of skilful diplomacy.

Viscount Palmerston has to apologise to your Majesty for having inadvertently written a part
of this memorandum upon a half-sheet of paper. And he would be glad if, without inconvenience
to your Majesty, he could be enabled to read to the Cabinet to-morrow the accompanying despatches
from Lord Granville.

[Pageheading: THE STATE OF FRANCE]

Queen Victoria to Viscount Palmerston.[55]

WINDSOR CASTLE, 11th November 1840.

The Queen has to acknowledge the receipt of Lord Palmerston's letter of this morning, which
she has read with great attention. The Queen will just make a few observations upon various
points in it, to which she would wish to draw Lord Palmerston's attention. The Queen does so
with strict impartiality, having had ample opportunities of hearing both sides of this intricate
and highly-important question.

First of all, it strikes the Queen that, even if M. Thiers did raise the cry, which was so
loud, for war in France (but which the Queen cannot believe he did to the extent Lord Palmerston
does), that such an excitement once raised in a country like France, where the people are more
excitable than almost any other nation, it cannot be so easily controuled and stopped again,
and the Queen thinks this will be seen in time.

Secondly, the Queen cannot either quite agree in Lord Palmerston's observation, that the French
Government state the danger of internal revolution, if not supported, merely to extract further
concessions for Mehemet Ali. The Queen does not pretend to say that this danger is not exaggerated,
but depend upon it, a certain degree of danger does exist, and that the situation of the King
of the French and the present French Government is not an easy one. The majority, too, cannot
be depended upon, as many would vote against Odillon Barrot,[56] who would not vote on other
occasions with the Soult-Guizot Ministry.

Thirdly, the danger of war is also doubtless greatly exaggerated, as also the numbers of the
French troops. But Lord Palmerston must recollect how very warlike the French are, and that
if once roused, they will not listen to the calm reasoning of those who wish for peace, or
think of the great risk they run of losing by war, but only of the glory and of revenging insult,
as they call it.

Fourthly, the Queen sees the difficulty there exists at the present moment of making any specific
offer to France, but she must at the same time repeat how highly and exceedingly important
she considers it that some sort of conciliatory agreement should be come to with France, for
she cannot believe that the appeals made to her by the King of the French are only exertions
of skilful diplomacy. The Queen's earnest and only wish is peace, and a maintenance of friendly
relations with her allies, consistent with the honour and dignity of her country. She does
not think, however, that the last would be compromised by attempts to soften the irritation
still existing in France, or by attempts to bring France back to her former position in the
Oriental Question.

She earnestly hopes that Lord Palmerston will consider this, will reflect upon the importance
of not driving France to extremities, and of conciliatory measures, without showing fear (for
our successes on the coast of Syria show our power), or without yielding to threats. France
has been humbled, and France is in the wrong, but, therefore, it is easier than if we had failed,
to do something to bring matters right again. The Queen has thus frankly stated her own opinion,
which she thought it right Lord Palmerston should know, and she is sure he will see it is only
dictated by an earnest desire to see all as much united as possible on this important subject.

    [Footnote 55: A copy of this letter was sent at the same time
    to Lord Melbourne.]

    [Footnote 56: The unsuccessful candidate for the Presidency of
    the Chamber.]

Baron Stockmar to Viscount Melbourne.

21st November 1840.

MY DEAR LORD,--I have just received Her Majesty's order to express to you her great desire
to have from this day the Prince's name introduced into the Church Prayer. Her own words were:
"that I should press it with Lord Melbourne as the wish she had most at heart at this moment."
Ever yours most sincerely,

STOCKMAR.

[Pageheading: KING LEOPOLD ON FRENCH AFFAIRS]

The King of the Belgians to the Prince Albert.

[Translated.]

LAEKEN, 26th November 1840.

... As to politics, I do not wish to say much to-day. Palmerston, rex and autocrat, is, for
a Minister finding himself in such fortunate circumstances, far too irritable and violent.
One does not understand the use of showing so much hatred and anger. What he says about the
appeal to the personal feeling of the Queen, on the part of the King of the French, is childlike
and malicious, for it has never existed.

The King was for many years the great friend of the Duke of Kent, after whose death he remained
a friend of Victoria. His relations with the latter have, up to 1837, passed through very varied
phases; she was for a long time an object of hatred in the family, who had not treated the
Duke of Kent over-amicably, and a proof of this is the fact that the Regent, from the year
1819, forbade the Duke his house and presence--which was probably another nail in the Duke's
coffin. Many of these things are quite unknown to Victoria, or forgotten by her. Still it is
only fair not to forget the people who were her friends before 1837; after that date there
was a violent outbreak of affection among people who in the year 1836 would still not go near
Victoria. October 1836, when he sat next her at dinner, was the first time that Palmerston
himself had ever seen Victoria except at a distance. As you have the best means of knowing,
the King has not even dreamt of applying to Victoria.

As to danger, it was very great in September, on the occasion of the ouvrier riot--for a Paris
mob fires at once, a thing which--Heaven be thanked!--English mobs rarely do. Towards the end
of October, when Thiers withdrew, there was a possibility of a revolution, and it was only
the fear of people of wealth that kept them together, and drew them towards Guizot.

A revolution, at once democratic and bellicose, could not but become most dangerous. That was
on the cards, and only a fairly fortunate combination of circumstances saved matters. The King
and my poor mother-in-law were terribly low, on both occasions, and I confess that I looked
everyday with the greatest anxiety for the news. If the poor King had been murdered, or even
if he were now to be murdered, what danger, what confusion would follow! All these things were
met by Palmerston with the excessively nonchalante declaration, it was not so, and it is not
so! Those are absolutely baseless assertions, and totally valueless. At least I could estimate
the danger as well as he and Bulwer--and, indeed, it was an anxious crisis. I should think
the Revolution of 1790 et ce qui s'en est suivi had done a brisk enough business in Europe,
and to risk a new one of the same kind would really be somewhat scandalous.

What, however, may be the future fruit of the seed of Palmerston's sowing, we do not in the
least know as yet; it may, however, prove sufficiently full of misfortune for the future of
innocent people. The Eastern affairs will be put on an intelligible footing only when, after
these differences with Mehemet Ali, something is done for the poor Porte, which is now so much
out of repair. Otherwise there remains a little place which is called Sebastopol, and from
which, as the wind is almost constantly favourable, one can get very quickly to Constantinople--and
Constantinople is always the one place which exercises the greatest influence, and all the
more because the ducats come from that quarter, with results which the marked economy of England
is hardly likely to effect....

Victoria has borne herself bravely and properly in the matter, and deserves to be greatly praised....

[Pageheading: BIRTH OF THE PRINCESS ROYAL]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 30th November 1840.

MY MOST BELOVED VICTORIA,--I have been longing to write to you ever since we got the joyful
tidings,[57] but I would not do so before the nine days were at an end. Now that they are over,
I hope as you are, thank God, so well, I may venture a few lines to express a part of my feelings,
and to wish you joy on the happy birth of your dear little girl. I need not tell you the deep,
deep share I took in this most happy event, and all I felt for you, for dear Albert, when I
heard of it, and since we last met. You know my affection for you, and I will not trouble you
with the repetition of what you know. All I will say is that I thanked God with all my heart,
and as I have scarcely thanked Him for any other favour....

    [Footnote 57: The Princess Royal, afterwards the Empress
    Frederick of Germany, was born 21st November 1840.]

[Pageheading: SETTLEMENT OF EASTERN QUESTION]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

15th December 1840.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--Many thanks for your kind little letter of the 10th from Ardenne. I am very
prosperous, walking about the house like myself again, and we go to Windsor on the 22nd or
23rd, which will quite set me up. I am very prudent and careful, you may rely upon it. Your
little grand-niece is most flourishing; she gains daily in health, strength and, I may add,
beauty; I think she will be very like her dearest father; she grows amazingly; I shall be proud
to present her to you.

The dénouement of the Oriental affair is most fortunate, is it not?[58]

I see Stockmar often, who is very kind about me and the Princess Royal....

Albert sends his affectionate love, and pray believe me always, your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 58: On the 3rd of November St Jean d'Acre was
    captured by the allied fleet, Admiral Sir Robert Stopford
    commanding the British contingent; the battle is said to have
    been the first to test the advantages of steam. Admiral Napier
    proceeded to Alexandria, and threatened bombardment, unless
    the Pasha came to terms. On 25th November a Convention was
    signed, by which Mehemet Ali resigned his claims to Syria, and
    bound himself to restore the Ottoman Fleet, while the Powers
    undertook to procure for him undisturbed possession of the
    Pashalik of Egypt.]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 26th December 1840.

... I can well understand that you feel quite astonished at finding yourself within a year
of your marriage a very respectable mother of a nice little girl, but let us thank Heaven that
it is so. Any illness to which, unfortunately, we poor human creatures are very subject, would
almost have kept you longer in bed, and make you longer weak and uncomfortable, than an event
which in your position as Sovereign is of a very great importance.

Because there is no doubt that a Sovereign without heirs direct, or brothers and sisters, which
by their attachment may stand in lieu of them, is much to be pitied, viz., Queen Anne's later
years. Moreover, children of our own, besides the affection which one feels for them, have
also for their parents sentiments which one rarely obtains from strangers. I flatter myself
therefore that you will be a delighted and delightful Maman au milieu d'une belle et nombreuse
famille....

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

TO CHAPTER X

At the beginning of the year the Ministry were confronted with monetary difficulties and bad
trade; their special weakness in finance, contrasted with Sir Robert Peel's great ability,
in addition to their many reverses, indicated that a change was at hand; and confidential communications
were, with Lord Melbourne's full approval, opened up by the Prince with Sir Robert Peel, to
avert the recurrence of a Bedchamber dispute. The Ministry were defeated on their Budget, but
did not resign. A vote of want of confidence was then carried against them by a majority of
one, and Parliament was dissolved; the Ministers appealing to the country on the cry of a fixed
duty on corn. The Conservative and Protectionist victory was a decisive one, the most significant
successes being in the city of London, Northumberland, and the West Riding. Somewhat improving
their position in Scotland and Ireland, and just holding their own in the English boroughs,
the Whigs were absolutely overwhelmed in the counties, and in the result three hundred and
sixty-eight Conservatives and only two hundred and ninety-two Liberals were returned. The modern
practice of resigning before meeting Parliament had not then been introduced, and the Ministry
was defeated in both Houses on Amendments to the Address, the Duke of Wellington taking the
opportunity of eulogising Lord Melbourne's great services to the Queen. A powerful Protectionist
Ministry was formed by Sir Robert Peel, including the Duke of Wellington, Lord Aberdeen, Sir
James Graham, and Lord Lyndhurst.

Great national rejoicings took place when, on the 9th of November, a male heir to the throne,
now His Majesty King Edward VII., was born.

In France the bitter feeling against England, arising out of the Syrian expedition, still continued,
but Thiers' supersession by the more pacific Guizot, and the satisfaction with which both the
latter and his Sovereign regarded the displacement of Palmerston by Aberdeen, began to lead
to a better entente. The scheme of fortifying Paris continued, however, to be debated, while
the Orleanist family were still the subjects of futile attentats.

Spain was disturbed, the question of the guardianship of the young Queen giving rise to dissension:
insurrections in the interests of the Queen-mother took place at Pampeluna and Vittoria, and
her pension was suspended by Espartero, the Regent.

In the east, Mehemet Ali surrendered the whole of the Turkish fleet, and he was subsequently
guaranteed the hereditary Pashalik of Egypt by the four European Powers who had intervened
in the affairs of the Levant.

In Afghanistan, an insurrection broke out, and Sir Alexander Burnes was murdered; our envoy
at Cabul, Sir William Macnaghten, in an unfortunate moment entered into negotiations with Akbar
Khan, a son of Dost Mahommed, who treacherously assassinated him. Somewhat humiliating terms
were arranged, and the English force of 4,000 soldiers, with 12,000 camp-followers, proceeded
to withdraw from Cabul, harassed by the enemy; after endless casualties, General Elphinstone,
who was in command, with the women and children, became captives, and one man alone, of the
16,000--Dr Brydon--reached Jellalabad to tell the tale.

In China, operations were continued, Sir Henry Pottinger superseding Captain Elliot, and Canton
soon lying at the mercy of the British arms; the new Superintendent co-operated with Sir Hugh
Gough and Admiral Sir William Parker, in the capture of Amoy, Chusan, Chintu, and Ningpo.

In America, the union of the two Canadas was carried into effect, but a sharp dispute with
the United States arose out of the Upper Canada disturbances of 1837. Some Canadian loyalists
had then resented the interference of a few individual Americans in favour of the rebels, and
an American named Durfee had been killed. One M'Leod, a British subject, was now arrested in
the State of New York, on a charge of having been concerned in the affray. He was acquitted,
reprisals were made by Canadians, and international feeling was for a time highly acute.

Much interest naturally attaches to Lord Melbourne's continued correspondence with the Queen,
after the change of Government. Baron Stockmar's remonstrance on the subject shows that he
misunderstood the character of the correspondence, and over-estimated its momentousness.

These letters dealt chiefly with social and personal matters, and although full of interest
from the light which they throw on Lord Melbourne's relations with the Queen, they show him
to have behaved with scrupulous honour and delicacy, and to have tried to augment, rather than
undermine, Peel's growing influence with the Queen and Prince. There are comparatively few
of Peel's letters in the collection. He wrote rarely at first, and only on strictly official
matters. But before long his great natural reserve was broken through, and his intercourse
with the Prince, to whom his character was particularly sympathetic, became very close and
intimate.

Of all the English Ministers with whom the Prince was brought in contact, it is known that
he preferred the stately and upright Commoner, who certainly, of all English Ministers, estimated
and appreciated the Prince's character most truly and clearly.

CHAPTER X

1841

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

5th January 1841.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I have to thank you for two very kind letters, of the 26th December and
1st January, and for all your very kind and good wishes. I am sorry to hear you have all been
plagued with colds; we have as yet escaped them, and I trust will continue to do so. I think,
dearest Uncle, you cannot really wish me to be the "Mamma d'une nombreuse famille," for I think
you will see with me the great inconvenience a large family would be to us all, and particularly
to the country, independent of the hardship and inconvenience to myself; men never think, at
least seldom think, what a hard task it is for us women to go through this very often. God's
will be done, and if He decrees that we are to have a great number of children, why we must
try to bring them up as useful and exemplary members of society. Our young lady flourishes
exceedingly, and I hope the Van de Weyers (who have been here for three days), who have seen
her twice, will give you a favourable description of her. I think you would be amused to see
Albert dancing her in his arms; he makes a capital nurse (which I do not, and she is much too
heavy for me to carry), and she already seems so happy to go to him.

The christening will be at Buckingham Palace on the 10th of February, our dear marriage-day.

Affairs are certainly still precarious, but I feel confident all will come right....

Ever your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

LAEKEN, 8th January 1841.

... I trust also that affairs will come right; what is to be feared is the chapter of accidents.
Your name bears glorious fruits in all climes; this globe will soon be too small for you, and
something must be done to get at the other planets....

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S EDUCATION]

Memorandum--Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 15th January 1841.

Lord Melbourne said, "The Prince is bored with the sameness of his chess every evening. He
would like to bring literary and scientific people about the Court, vary the society, and infuse
a more useful tendency into it. The Queen however has no fancy to encourage such people. This
arises from a feeling on her part that her education has not fitted her to take part in such
conversation; she would not like conversation to be going on in which she could not take her
fair share, and she is far too open and candid in her nature to pretend to one atom more knowledge
than she really possesses on such subjects; and yet, as the world goes, she would, as any girl,
have been considered accomplished, for she speaks German well and writes it; understands Italian,
speaks French fluently, and writes it with great elegance. In addition to this old Davys instilled
some Latin into her during his tutorship. The rest of her education she owes to her own natural
shrewdness and quickness, and this perhaps has not been the proper education for one who was
to wear the Crown of England.

"The Queen is very proud of the Prince's utter indifference to the attractions of all ladies.
I told Her Majesty that these were early days to boast, which made her rather indignant. I
think she is a little jealous of his talking much even to men."

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S SPEECH]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

19th January 1841. Lord Melbourne is very sorry not to come down to Windsor, but he really
thinks that his absence from London at this moment might be prejudicial.

Lord Melbourne will do his utmost to have the Speech worded in the most calm manner, and so
as in no respect to offend or irritate any feelings. Some mention of the good conduct and gallantry
of the Navy there must be--to omit it would be injurious and disheartening--but as to any expressions
complimentary to France or expressive of regret at our separation from it, it will be hardly
possible to introduce anything of that nature.[1] It is quite unusual in our Speeches from
the Throne to express either approbation or disapprobation of the conduct of foreign nations
and foreign Governments. It is surprising how very seldom it has been done, and the wisdom
and prudence of abstaining from it is very manifest. It would be giving an opinion upon that
which does not belong to us. Anything which would have the effect of producing satisfaction
in France must be of an apologetic character, which there is no ground for, and for which neither
the Government nor the country is prepared.

The best course will be a total reserve upon this head, certainly abstaining from anything
that can be in the slightest degree offensive.

    [Footnote 1: France was not mentioned, though the Convention
    with the other Powers, and the naval operations in conjunction
    with Austria, were referred to.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

Lord Melbourne is very sorry that your Majesty is compelled to come to London contrary to your
inclinations; but Lord Melbourne much rejoices that your Majesty expresses that reluctance,
as there is no surer sign of complete happiness and contentment in the married life than a
desire to remain quietly in the country, and there is nothing on the earth Lord Melbourne desires
more anxiously than the assurance of your Majesty's happiness.

[Pageheading: THE QUEEN'S INFANCY]

The King of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

BRUSSELS, 22nd January 1841.

MY DEAREST VICTORIA,--I thank you very sincerely for your kind letter of the 19th, which I
hasten to answer. I should not have bored you by my presence, but the act of the christening
is, in my eyes, a sort of closing of the first cyclus of your dear life. I was shooting at
the late Lord Craven's in Berkshire, when I received the messenger who brought me the horrifying
news of your poor father's deadly illness. I hastened in bitter cold weather to Sidmouth, about
two days before his death. His affairs were so much deranged that your Mother would have had
no means even of leaving Sidmouth if I had not taken all this under my care and management.
That dreary journey, undertaken, I think, on the 26th of January, in bitter cold and damp weather,
I shall not easily forget. I looked very sharp after the poor little baby, then about eight
months old. Arrived in London we were very unkindly treated by George IV., whose great wish
was to get you and your Mamma out of the country, and I must say without my assistance you
could not have remained.... I state these facts, because it is useful to remember through what
difficulties and hardships one had to struggle. You will also remember that though there existed
the possibility of your eventually succeeding to the Crown, that possibility was very doubtful,
the then Duchess of Clarence having been confined after your Mother, and there being every
reason to think that, though poor little Princess Elizabeth did not live more than some months,
other children might appear.[2]

It was a long time from 1820 to 1837! We got over it, however, and, as far as you are concerned,
God be praised! safely and happily. You are married, with every prospect of many happy years
to come, and your happiness is crowned, and consolidated, as it were, by the birth of the dear
little lady. Having from motives of discretion, perhaps carried even too far, not assisted
at your coming to the throne, nor at your Coronation, nor afterwards at your marriage, I wished
to assist at the christening of the little Princess, an event which is of great importance....

    [Footnote 2: Two children were born to the Duke and Duchess of
    Clarence--Charlotte Augusta Louisa, born and died 29th March
    1819, and Elizabeth Georgina Adelaide, born 10th December
    1820, and died 4th March 1821.]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

CARLTON TERRACE, 1st February 1841.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and in submitting this letter
from Earl Granville, which coupled with the despatches from Sir Robert Stopford virtually show
that the Turkish Question is brought to a close, begs most humbly to congratulate your Majesty
upon this rapid and peaceful settlement of a matter which at different periods has assumed
appearances so threatening to the peace of Europe.[3]

    [Footnote 3: See ante, pp. 252, 254.
      (Ch. IX, Footnote 58; Intro. Note to Ch. X)]

[Pageheading: ILLNESS OF DUKE OF WELLINGTON]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

Lord Melbourne will speak to Lord Palmerston about Lord John Russell.

Lord Melbourne does not see the name of the Archbishop of Canterbury as a subscriber to this
"Parker" Society, and if your Majesty will give him leave, he will ask him about it before
he gives your Majesty an answer. It is in some degree a party measure, and levelled against
these new Oxford doctrines. The proposal is to republish the works of the older divines up
to the time of the death of Queen Elizabeth. Up to that period the doctrines of the Church
of England were decidedly Calvinistic. During the reign of James II.,[4] and particularly after
the Synod of Dort (1618-1619), the English clergy very generally adopted Arminian opinions.

It is proposed to republish the works of the divines who wrote during the first period, and
to stop short when they come to the second. There is meaning in this. But, after all, the object
is not a bad one, and it may not be worth while to consider it so closely.

    [Footnote 4: Lord Melbourne must have meant James I.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

5th February 1841 (6 o'clock). Lord Brougham, who was standing opposite to the Duke and addressing
the House, observed the Duke's face to be drawn and distorted, and soon afterwards the Duke
rose from his seat and walked staggeringly towards the door. He walked down the gallery, supported
on each side, but never spoke. A medical man was procured to attend him; he was placed in his
carriage and driven home....

[Pageheading: THE UNITED STATES]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

6th March 1841. Indeed the chief fault found with the Army Estimates was that they are not
large enough.

Sir Robert Peel made a remarkable speech. Adverting to the present state of our affairs with
the United States,[5] he said that much as he disliked war, yet if the honour or interests
of the country required it, he should sink all internal differences, and give his best support
to the Government of his country.

This declaration was received with loud cheers. It must be considered as very creditable to
Sir Robert Peel.

    [Footnote 5: See Introductory Note, ante, p. 254.
      (Intro Note to Ch. X)]

[Pageheading: CHINA]

Viscount Palmerston to Queen Victoria.

FOREIGN OFFICE, 10th April 1841.

Viscount Palmerston presents his humble duty to your Majesty, and has the honour to submit
the accompanying letters, which he received yesterday, about the operations in China, and which
have just been returned to him by Viscount Melbourne, whose letter he also transmits.[6]

Viscount Palmerston has felt greatly mortified and disappointed at this result of the expedition
to China, and he much fears that the sequel of the negotiation, which was to follow the conclusion
of these preliminary conditions, will not tend to render the arrangement less objectionable.
Captain Elliot seems to have wholly disregarded the instructions which had been sent to him,
and even when, by the entire success of the operations of the Fleet, he was in a condition
to dictate his own terms, he seems to have agreed to very inadequate conditions.[7] The amount
of compensation for the opium surrendered falls short of the value of that opium, and nothing
has been obtained for the expenses of the expedition, nor for the debts of the bankrupt Hong[8]
merchants. The securities which the plenipotentiaries were expressly ordered to obtain for
British residents in China have been abandoned; and the Island of Chusan which they were specifically
informed was to be retained till the whole of the pecuniary compensation should have been paid,
has been hastily and discreditably evacuated. Even the cession of Hong Kong has been coupled
with a condition about the payment of duties, which would render that island not a possession
of the British Crown, but, like Macao, a settlement held by sufferance in the territory of
the Crown of China.

Viscount Palmerston deems it his duty in laying these papers before your Majesty, to state
some few of the objections which he feels to the arrangement, but the Cabinet will have to
consider, as soon as they meet after the Recess, what advice they may wish humbly to tender
to your Majesty upon these important matters. There is no doubt, however, that much has been
accomplished, but it is very mortifying to find that other things which the plenipotentiaries
were ordered to obtain, and which the force placed at their command was amply sufficient to
enable them to accomplish, have not been attained.

Viscount Palmerston has sent a small map of the Canton River, which your Majesty may like to
keep for future reference.

    [Footnote 6: Captain Elliot, after capturing the Chinese
    position at the mouth of Canton River, concluded a preliminary
    treaty with the Chinese Government, which did not satisfy the
    Chinese, and which was strongly disapproved of by the English
    Ministry, as containing no mention of the opium traffic,
    which had been the cause of all the difficulties; Elliot was
    accordingly recalled, and succeeded by Sir Henry Pottinger.]

    [Footnote 7: They were the cession of Hong-Kong, and payment
    of an indemnity of 6,000,000 dollars to Great Britain,
    with provision for commercial facilities and collection of
    customs.]

    [Footnote 8: The native Canton merchants,--Hong here probably
    meaning a "row of houses," a "street." Hong Kong (Hiang Kiang)
    means the "fragrant lagoon."]

Queen Victoria to the King of the Belgians.

13th April 1841.

MY DEAREST UNCLE,--I thank you much for your kind letter of the 9th, received yesterday. I
have just heard from Stockmar (who, I hope, reported favourably of us all) that your Ministry
is at last settled, of which I wish you joy. I think, dear Uncle, that you would find the East
not only as "absurd" as the West, but very barbarous, cruel, and dangerous into the bargain.

The Chinese business vexes us much, and Palmerston is deeply mortified at it. All we wanted
might have been got, if it had not been for the unaccountably strange conduct of Charles Elliot
(not Admiral Elliot,[9] for he was obliged to come away from ill-health), who completely disobeyed
his instructions and tried to get the lowest terms he could.... The attack and storming of
the Chorempee Forts on the 7th of January was very gallantly done by the Marines, and immense
destruction of the Chinese took place.[10] The accounts of the cruelty of the Chinese to one
another are horrible. Albert is so much amused at my having got the Island of Hong Kong, and
we think Victoria ought to be called Princess of Hong Kong in addition to Princess Royal.

She drives out every day in a close carriage with the window open, since she has been here,
which does her worlds of good, and she is to have a walk to-day.

Stockmar writes me word that Charlotte[11] is quite beautiful. I am very jealous.

I think Vecto quite right not to travel without Nemours; for it would look just as if she was
unhappy, and ran to her parents for help. I am sure if Albert ever should be away (which, however,
will and shall never happen, for I would go with him even if he was to go to the North Pole),
I should never think of travelling; but I can't make mamma understand this. Now farewell. Ever
your devoted Niece,

VICTORIA R.

    [Footnote 9: They were both cousins of Lord Minto, the First
    Lord of the Admiralty.]

    [Footnote 10: Commodore Bremer very speedily reduced some of
    the forts, but his further operations were stopped.]

    [Footnote 11: Daughter of King Leopold, who married in
    1857 the Archduke Ferdinand of Austria (afterwards Emperor
    Maximilian of Mexico).]

[Pageheading: LORD CARDIGAN]

[Pageheading: ARMY DISCIPLINE]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

24th April 1841.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. Mr Labouchere[12] has desired that
the five-pound piece which is about to be issued from the Mint should be submitted for your
Majesty's inspection and approbation.

We have had under our consideration at the Cabinet the unfortunate subject of the conduct of
Lord Cardigan.[13] The public feeling upon it is very strong, and it is almost certain that
a Motion will be made in the House of Commons for an Address praying your Majesty to remove
him from the command of his regiment. Such a Motion, if made, there is very little chance of
resisting with success, and nothing is more to be apprehended and deprecated than such an interference
of the House of Commons with the interior discipline and government of the Army. It was also
felt that the general order issued by the Horse Guards was not sufficient to meet the case,
and in these circumstances it was thought proper that Lord Melbourne should see Lord Hill,
and should express to him the opinion of the Cabinet, that it was necessary that he should
advise your Majesty to take such measures as should have the effect of removing Lord Cardigan
from the command of the 11th Hussars. The repeated acts of imprudence of which Lord Cardigan
has been guilty, and the repeated censures which he has drawn down upon himself, form a ground
amply sufficient for such a proceeding, and indeed seem imperiously to demand it.[14]

Lord Melbourne has seen Lord Hill and made to him this communication, and has left it for his
consideration. Lord Hill is deeply chagrined and annoyed, but will consider the matter and
confer again with Lord Melbourne upon it to-morrow.

    [Footnote 12: President of the Board of Trade, afterwards
    created Lord Taunton.]

    [Footnote 13: "Within the space of a single twelvemonth, one
    of his [Lord Cardigan's] captains was cashiered for writing
    him a challenge; he sent a coarse and insulting verbal message
    to another, and then punished him with prolonged arrest,
    because he respectfully refused to shake hands with the
    officer who had been employed to convey the affront; he fought
    a duel with a lieutenant who had left the corps, and shot him
    through the body; and he flogged a soldier on Sunday, between
    the Services, on the very spot where, half an hour before, the
    man's comrades had been mustered for public worship."--SIR G.
    TREVELYAN, Life and Letters of Lord Macaulay, chap. viii.]

    [Footnote 14: In February he had been acquitted on technical
    grounds by the House of Lords of shooting a Captain Harvey
    Garnett Phipps Tuckett. He had accused Tuckett of being the
    author of letters which had appeared in the papers reflecting
    on his character; a duel on Wimbledon Common followed, and
    Tuckett was wounded. The evidence, consisting in part of a
    visiting card, showed that a Captain Harvey Tuckett had
    been wounded, which was held to be insufficient evidence of
    identity.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He is most anxious upon all subjects to be put in possession
of Your Majesty's full and entire opinions. It is true that this question may materially affect
the discipline of the Army, by subjecting the interior management of regiments to be brought
continually under the inspection and control of the House of Commons upon complaints of officers
against their superiors, or even of private men against the officers.

The danger of the whole of Lord Cardigan's proceedings has been lest a precedent of this nature
should arise out of them. The question is whether it is not more prudent to prevent a question
being brought forward in the House of Commons, than to wait for it with the certainty of being
obliged to yield to it or of being overpowered by it. But of course this cannot be done unless
it is consistent with justice and with the usage and prestige of the Service.

Lord Melbourne has desired the Cabinet Ministers to assemble here to-day at four o'clock, in
order to consider the subject. Lord Melbourne has seen Lord Hill again this morning, and Lord
Hill has seen and consulted the Duke of Wellington, who has stated his opinion very fully.

The opinion of the Duke is that the Punishment on Sunday was a great impropriety and indiscretion
upon the part of Lord Cardigan, but not a Military offence, nor a breach of the Mutiny Act
or of the Articles of War; that it called for the censure of the Commander-in-Chief, which
censure was pronounced by the General Order upon which the Duke was consulted before it was
issued, and that according to the usage of the Service no further step can be taken by the
Military Authorities. This opinion Lord Melbourne will submit to-day to the Cabinet Ministers.

Lord Melbourne perceives that he has unintentionally written upon two sheets of paper, which
he hopes will cause your Majesty no inconvenience.

[Pageheading: THE NOTTINGHAM ELECTION]

Lord Melbourne to Queen Victoria. He has himself seen the result of the election at Nottingham[15]
without the least surprise, from his knowledge of the place and his observation of the circumstances
of the contest. What John Russell reported to your Majesty was the opinion of those who act
for us in that place, but as soon as Lord Melbourne saw that there was a disposition upon the
part of the violent party, Radicals, Chartists, and what not, to support the Tory candidate,
he knew that the contest was formidable and dubious. The Tory party is very strong, naturally,
at Nottingham, and if it received any accession of strength, was almost certain to prevail.
This combination, or rather this accession of one party to the Tories, which has taken place
at Nottingham, is very likely, and in Lord Melbourne's opinion almost certain, to take place
in many other parts of the country in the case of a general election, and forms very serious
matter for consideration as to the prudence of taking such a step as a dissolution of the Parliament.

Lord Melbourne will wait upon your Majesty after the Levée. It signifies not how late, as there
is no House of Lords.

    [Footnote 15: Where Mr Walter, a Tory, was elected with a
    majority of 238.]

[Pageheading: THE BUDGET]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

The changes in the duties on Sugar and Timber,[16] and the announcement made by Lord John Russell
of a proposal for a fixed duty on Corn, seemed to surprise and irritate the Opposition.

Sir Robert Peel refused to give any opinion on these propositions, and satisfied himself with
attacking the Government on the state of the finances.

The supporters of the Government were greatly pleased with Mr Baring's plan, and loud in their
cheers.

It is the general opinion that Lord Stanley will not proceed with his Bill,[17] and there seems
little doubt of this fact.

But the two parties are now evenly balanced, and the absence or defection of some two or three
of the Ministerial party may at any time leave the Government in a minority.

    [Footnote 16: The proposals were to increase the duty on
    colonial timber from 10s. to 20s. a load, reducing it on
    foreign timber from 55s. to 50s., to leave the duty on
    colonial sugar unloaded at 24s. a cwt., reducing that on
    foreign sugar from 63s. to 36s. a cwt.]

    [Footnote 17: On Irish Registration.]

Viscount Melbourne to Queen Victoria.

3rd May 1841.

Lord Melbourne presents his humble duty to your Majesty. We decided at the Cabinet on Friday
that we could not sanction the agreement which Captain Elliot has probably by this time concluded
with the Government of China, but that it would be necessary to demand a larger amount of indemnity
for the past injury, and also a more complete security for our trade in future. For this purpose
it was determined to send out instructions, in case the armament should not have left the Chinese
coasts and have been dispersed, to reoccupy the Island of Chusan,[18] a measure which appears
to have had a great effect upon the minds of the Chinese Government. It was also determined
to recall Captain Elliot, and to send out as soon as possible another officer with full instructions
from hence as to the views and intentions of your Majesty's Government. Sir Henry Pottinger,[19]
an officer in the East India Company's Service, much distinguished in the recent operations
in Afghanistan, is designated with your Majesty's approbation for this service, which he has
signified his willingness to undertake. It was also thought that it would be proper to entrust
Lord Auckland[20] with general discretionary powers as to the further conduct of the expedition.
These determinations Lord Melbourne hopes that your Majesty will approve.

Lord John Russell informed Lord Melbourne yesterday that he knew that it was not the intention
of the Opposition to press Lord Stanley's Bill; but it is not to be expected in the present
position of affairs that they will not determine upon taking some decisive and united measure
in advance.

In the present state of public measures and of public feeling, when debate may arise at any
moment, it would not be fitting for Lord Melbourne to absent himself on any sitting day from
the House of Lords. But unless there should be anything so urgent as to prevent him, he will
come down after the House on Tuesday evening and stay until Thursday morning.

Fanny is highly delighted and immeasurably grateful for your Majesty's offer of the Lodge in
Richmond Park, and most desirous to avail herself of your Majesty's kindness, and so is Jocelyn.
Lord Melbourne has little doubt that they will thankfully accept it.[21]

    [Footnote 18: The Island of Chusan, off the coast of China,
    had been occupied in July 1840 as a base of operations, but
    evacuated by Elliot in 1841. It was retaken in September 1841,
    after Elliot's recall, by Sir Henry Pottinger.]

    [Footnote 19: He had served in the Mahratta War, and been
    political agent in Scinde.]

    [Footnote 20: Governor-General of India.]

    [Footnote 21: Lady Fanny Cowper, Lord Melbourne's niece, was
    married to Lord Jocelyn on 27th April.]

[Pageheading: CHRISTENING OF COMTE DE PARIS]

The Queen of the Belgians to Queen Victoria.

PARIS, 3rd May 1841.

MY BELOVED VICTORIA,--As you know surely already, the day of yesterday went off very well.
The christening[22] was very splendid, the weather beautiful, and everything extremely well
managed.... The arrival at Notre-Dame, and the coup d'[oe]il of the old church, all hung interiorly
with crimson velvet draperies and trophies of flags, was very splendid. There was in the church
three rows de tribunes all full of well-dressed people. Les grands corps de l'État étaient
rangés de chaque côté et dans le ch[oe]ur; l'Autel était placé au centre de l'église. Les cardinaux
et tout le clergé étaient alentour. When my father arrived, the Archbishop of Paris received
him at the door of the church, and we all walked in state. My father ouvrait la marche with
the Queen. Prie-dieu and chairs were disposed for us en demi-cercle before the altar, or rather
before the baptismal font, which was placed in front of it, in the very middle of the Church.
My father and mother stood in the centre of the row near each other. Your uncle, Chartres,
and all the Princes followed on the side of my father, and the princesses on the side of my
mother. Paris remained with Hélène till the moment of the christening. When the ceremony began
he advanced near the font with my father and mother (sponsors), and was taken up in the arms
of his nurse. After the christening a Mass and Te Deum were read, and when we came back to
the Tuileries the corps municipal brought the sword which the City of Paris has given to the
Comte de Paris....

    [Footnote 22: Of the Comte de Paris, at this time nearly three
    years old, son of the Duc d'Orléans.]

[Pageheading: THE SUGAR DUTIES]

Lord John Russell to Queen Victoria.

On the other hand, Lord Sandon gave a notice for Friday for a Resolution on Sugar Duties.

If, as is probable, this Motion is made as a party movement, it is probable that, with the
addition of those on the Ministerial side who have an interest in the West Indies, the Motion
will be successful.

The whole scheme of finance for the year will thus be overturned.

The Tory party seem to expect a dissolution of Parliament, but your Majesty's advisers will
hardly be able to recommend to your Majesty such a step.

The cry against the Poor Law is sure to be taken up by the worst politicians of the Tory party,
and, as at Nottingham, may be successful against that most useful law.

The friends of Government who represent counties will be taunted with the proposal to alter
the Corn Law.

Bribery is sure to be resorted to beyond anything yet seen.

A defeat of the Ministry on a dissolution would be final and irreparable.

On the other hand, their successors in the Government would have to provide for the excess
in the expenditure pledged against the best measures that could be resorted to for the purpose.
It would be a difficulty of their own seeking, and their want of candour and justice to their
opponents would be the cause of their own embarrassments.

The moment is a very important one, and the consequences of the vote of Friday, or probably
Monday, cannot fail to be serious.

[Pageheading: A MINISTERIAL CRISIS]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

"The Ministry in jeopardy." (Heading in the Prince Albert's hand.)

WINDSOR CASTLE, 4th May 1841.

Lord Melbourne came down from town after the House of Lords. I went with him to his room for
an hour after the Queen had retired. He said the main struggle would take place on the Sugar
Duties on Friday. His impression was that the Government would be beat, and he must then decide
whether to go out or dissolve. He leaned to the former. I said, "I trusted he would not dissolve
unless he thought there was some prospect of increasing his strength, and begged him to remember
what was done would not be considered the act of the Government but that of himself and the
Queen, and that he individually would be held as the responsible person."

He said he had not written to the Queen to prepare H.M. for coming events and the course that
it would be incumbent upon her to take, for he felt it extremely difficult and delicate, especially
as to the use she should make of the Prince, and of her mode of communication when she required
it with Lord Melbourne. He thought she ought never to ask his advice direct, but if she required
his opinion there would be no objection to her obtaining it through the Prince.

He said H.M. had relied so implicitly upon him upon all affairs, that he felt that she required
in this emergency advice upon almost every subject. That he would tell H.M. that she must carefully
abstain from playing the same part she did, again, on Sir R. Peel's attempt to form a Ministry,
for that nothing but the forbearance of the Tories had enabled himself and his colleagues to
support H.M. at that time. He feared Peel's doggedness and pertinacity might make him insist,
as a point of honour, on having all discretion granted to him in regard to the removal of Ladies.
I told him of the Prince's suggestion that before the Queen saw Sir R. Peel some negotiation
might be entered into with Sir Robert, so that the subject might be avoided by mutual consent,
the terms of which might be that Sir Robert should give up his demand to extort the principle.
The Queen, on the other hand, should require the resignation of those Ladies objected to by
Sir Robert. Lord Melbourne said, however, that the Prince must not have personal communication
with Sir Robert on this subject, but he thought that I might through the medium of a common friend.

[Pageheading: LORD MELBOURNE'S ADVICE]

Memorandum by Mr Anson.

WINDSOR CASTLE, 5th May 1841.

Saw Lord Melbourne after his interview this morning with the Queen. He says Her Majesty was
perfectly calm and reasonable, and seemed quite prepared for the resignation of the Government.
He said she was prepared to give way upon the Ladies if required, but much wished that that
point might be previously settled by negotiation with Sir R. Peel, to avoid any discussion
or difference. Lord Melbourne thinks I might do this. He would also like Peel to be cautioned
not to press Her Majesty to decide hastily, but to give Her Majesty time, and that he should
feel that if he acted fairly he would be met in the same spirit by the Queen.

With regard to future communication with Lord Melbourne, the Queen said she did not mean that
a change should exclude her from Lord Melbourne's society, and when Lord Melbourne said that
in society Her Majesty could not procure Lord Melbourne's opinion upon any subject, and suggested
that that should be obtained through the Prince, Her Majesty said that that could pass in writing
under cover to me, but that she must communicate direct.

The Queen, he says, leans to sending for the Duke of Wellington. Lord Melbourne advised that
Her Majesty should make up her mind at once to send for Sir Robert. He told me that it would
not be without precedent to send for both at once; this it appears to me would obviate every
objection. The Queen, he thinks, has a perfect right to exercise her judgment upon the selection
of all persons recommended to Her Majesty for Household appointments, both as to liking, but
chiefly as to their character and as to the character of the husband or wife of the person
selected. He would advise the Queen to adopt the course which King William did with Lord Melbourne
in 1835, viz. desiring Lord Melbourne, before His Majesty approved of any appointments, to
send a list of those proposed even to the members of every Board, and the King having them
all before him expressed his objections to certain persons, which Lord Melbourne yielded to.

