This is very fine; but we can assure our friendly critic, that we feel no call whatever to
undertake the gratuitous direction of the American conscience. Our ambition to "do the thinking"
of our Yankee cousins is materially damped by the unpleasant necessity which it involves, of
being "done" ourselves. They seem, however, to claim a prescriptive right to the works of the
British press, as well as to the funds of the British public. They read our books, on the same
principle as they borrow our money, and abuse their benefactors into the bargain with more
than Hibernian asperity. After all, however, we believe that the candour of Maga has as much
to do with their larcenous admiration of her pages, as the "cheapness" to which our New York
editor alludes. To use their own phrase, "they go in for excitement considerable;" and, to
be told of their faults, is an excitement which they seldom enjoy at the hands of their own
authors. Now, we are accustomed to treat our own public as a rational, but extremely fallible
personage, and to think that we best deserve his support, by administering to his failings
the language of unpalatable truth. And we greatly mistake the character of Demus, and even
of that conceited monster the American Demus,--

    [Greek: agroikos orgên, kuamotrôx, akracholos upokôphos--]

if this be not the direction in which the interest, as well as the duty, of the public writer
lies. Certain it is, that even in the United States those books circulate most freely, which
lash most vigorously the vices of the Republic. Honest Von Raumer's dull encomium fell almost
still-born from the press, while the far more superficial pages of Dickens and Trollope were
eagerly devoured by a people who are daily given to understand, by their own authors, that
they are the greatest, the wisest, the most virtuous nation under the sun. Let a European author
be never so well disposed towards them, his partial applause contributes but little to their
full-blown complacency. But, when they hear that the Republic has been traduced by a foreign,
and especially a British pen, their vanity is piqued, their curiosity excited, and their conscience
smitten. Every one denounces the libel in public, and every one admits its truth to himself--"What!"
say they, "does the Old World in truth judge us thus harshly? Is it really scandalised by such
trifles as the repudiation of our debts, and the enslavement of our fellow creatures? Must
we give up our playful duels, and our convenient spittoons, before we can hope to pass muster
as Christians and gentlemen beyond our own borders? O free Demus! O wise Demus! O virtuous
Demus! Will you betake yourself to cleanly, and well-ordered ways at the bidding of this scribbler?"
Thus "they eat, and eke they swear;" vowing all the time that they "will horribly revenge."
No doubt, however, the bitter pill of foreign animadversion, though distasteful to the palate,
relieves the inflation of their stomachs, and leaves them better and lighter than before. But
when will a native Aristophanes arise to purge the effeminacy of the American press, and show
up the sausage-venders and Cleons of the Republic in their true light? How long will the richest
field of national folly in the world remain unreaped, save by the crotchety sickles of dull
moralists and didactic pamphleteers?

Not that moral courage is entirely wanting in the United States; but it is a kind of courage
altogether too moral, and sadly deficient in animal spirits. The New Englanders especially,
set up, in their solemn way, to admonish the vices of the Republic, and to inoculate them with
the virulent virtues of the Puritanical school. The good city of Boston alone teems with transcendental
schemes for the total and immediate regeneration of mankind. There we find Peace Societies,
and New Moral World Societies, and Teetotal Societies, and Anti-Slavery Societies, all "in
full blast," each opposing to its respective bane the most sweeping and exaggerated remedies.
The Americans never do things by halves; their vices and their virtues are alike in extremes,
and the principles of the second book of the Ethics of Aristotle[5] are altogether unknown
to their philosophy. At one moment they are all for "brandy and bitters," at the next, tea
and turn-out is the order of the day, Here, you must "liquor or fight"--there, a little wine
for the stomach's sake is sternly denied to a fit of colic, or an emergency of gripes. The
moral soul of Boston thrills with imaginings of perpetual peace, while St Louis and New Orleans
are volcanoes of war. Listen to the voice of New England, and you would think that negro slavery
was the only crime of which a nation ever was, or could by possibility be guilty; go to South
Carolina, and you are instructed that "the Domestic Institution" is the basis of democratic
virtue, the cornerstone of the Republican edifice. Cant, indeed, in one form or other, is the
innate vice of the "earnest" Anglo-Saxon mind, on both sides of the Atlantic, and ridicule
is the weapon which the gods have appointed for its mitigation. You must lay on the rod with
a will, and throw "moral suasion" to the dogs. Above all, your demagogue dreads satire as vermin
the avenging thumb--'Any thing but that,' squeaks he, 'an you love me. Liken me to Lucifer,
or Caius Gracchus; charge me with ambition, and glorious vices; let me be the evil genius of
the commonwealth, the tinsel villain of the political melodrama; but don't threaten me with
the fool's cap, or write me down with Dogberry; above all, don't quote me in cold blood, that
the foolish people may see, after the fever heat has subsided, what trash I have palmed upon
them in the name of liberty!' Yet this is the way, Jonathan, to deal with demagogues. You make
too much of yours, man. You are not the blockhead we take you for after all; but you delight
to see your public men in motley, and the rogues will fool you to the top of your bent, till
it is your pleasure to put down the show. So now that the piper has to be paid, and a lucid
interval appears to be dawning upon you, to the pillory at once with these "stump" orators,
and pot-house politicians, who have led you into such silly scrapes; turn them about, and look
at them well in the rough, that you may know them again when you see them, and learn to avoid
for the future their foolish and mischievous counsels.

It is remarkable that while a perception of the ridiculous, perhaps to excess, is characteristic
of the British mind, and is at the bottom of many defects in the national manners, commonly
attributed to less venial feelings, our Transatlantic descendants err in just the opposite
direction. The Americans seldom laugh at any body, or any thing--never at themselves; and this,
next to an unfortunate trick of insolvency, and a preternatural abhorrence of niggers, is perhaps
the besetting sin of an otherwise "smart" people. As individuals, their peculiarities are not
very marked; in truth there is a marvellous uniformity of bad habits amongst them; but when
viewed in their collective capacity, whenever two or three of them are gathered together, shades
of Democritus! commend us to a seven-fold pocket-handkerchief. The humours of most nations
expend themselves on carnivals and feast-days, at the theatre, the ball-room, or the public
garden; but the fun of the United States is to be looked for at public meetings, and philanthropical
gatherings, in the halls of lyceums, female academies, and legislative bodies. There they spout,
there they swell, and cover themselves with adulation as with a garment. From the inauguration
of a President, to the anniversary of the fair graduates of the Slickville female Institute,
no event is allowed to pass without a grand palaver, in which things in general are extensively
discussed, and their own things in particular extensively praised. They got the trick no doubt
from us, whose performances in this line are quite unrivalled in the Old World, but they have
added to our platform common-places a variety and "damnable iteration" entirely their own.
Besides, when Bull is called upon to make an ass of himself on such occasions, he seems for
the most part to have a due appreciation of the fact, while Jonathan's imperturbability and
apparent good faith are quite sublime. The things that we have been compelled to hear of that
"star-spangled banner!"--and all as if they were spoken in real earnest, and meant to be so
understood. We look back upon those side-rending moments with a kind of Lucretian pleasure,
and indemnify ourselves for past constraint by a hearty guffaw. All this magniloquence and
bad taste, however, is intelligible enough. It springs partly from a want of discipline in
their society, and partly from the absence of those studies which purify the taste, enlighten
the judgment, and make, even dulness respectable. American audiences are not critical--not
merely because they are not learned, but because they all take it in turns to be orators, as
they do to be colonels of militia and justices of the peace. Thus they learn to bear each other's
burdens, and Dulness is fully justified of her children. In a country where all men, at least
in theory, are equal, and where every man does in fact exercise a certain influence on public
affairs, it is not surprising that a large number of persons should possess a certain facility
of public speaking, which even in England is far from universal, and is elsewhere possessed
by very few. No man in the United States is deterred from offering his views upon matters of
state, by the feeling that neither his education nor his position justify his interference.
It is difficult in England to realise the practical equality which obtains as a fundamental
principle in the Republic. There every man feels himself to be, and in fact is, or at least
may be, a potential unit in the community. As a man, he is a citizen--as a citizen, a sovereign,
whose caprices are to be humoured, and whose displeasure is to be deprecated. Judge Peddle,
for instance, from the backwoods, is not perhaps as eloquent as Webster, nor as subtile as
Calhoun, but he has just as good a right to be heard when he goes up to Congress for all that.
Is he not accounted an exemplary citizen "and a pretty tall talker" in his own neighbourhood,
and where on "the univarsal airth" would you find a more enlightened public opinion? It would
never do to put Peddle down; that would be leze-majesté against his constituents, the sovereign
people who dwell in Babylon, which is in the county of Lafayette, on the banks of the Chattawichee.
Thus endorsed, Peddle soon lays aside his native bashfulness, and makes the walls of Congress
vocal to that bewitching eloquence which heretofore captivated the Babylonish mind. He was
"raised a leettle too far to the west of sun-down" to be snubbed by Down-easters, any how;
he's a cock of the woods, he is; an "etarnal screamer," "and that's a fact"--with a bowie knife
under his waistcoat, and a patent revolver in his coat pocket, both very much at the service
of any gentleman who may dispute his claims to popular or personal consideration.

To meet the case of these volcanic statesmen,

    "Aw'd by no shame, by no respect controll'd,"

and in order that the noble army of dunces (a potent majority, of course) may have no reason
to complain that the principles of equality are violated in their persons, the House of Representatives
has adopted a regulation, commonly called "the one-hour rule." Upon this principle, whenever
a question of great interest comes up, each member is allotted one hour by the Speaker's watch--as
much less as he pleases, but no more on any consideration. Of course it occasionally happens
that a man who has something to say, is not able to say it effectively within the hour; but
then, for one such, there are at least a dozen who would otherwise talk for a week without
saying any thing at all. Upon the whole, therefore, this same one-hour rule is deserving of
all praise--the time of the country is saved by it, the sufferings of the more sensible members
are abbreviated, while the dunces, to do them justice, make the most of their limited opportunities.
Who knows, but that the peace of the world may be owing to it? For as there are about 230 representatives,
we should have had, but for it, just as many masterly demonstrations of the title of the Republic
to the whole of Oregon--and something more. In such a cause, they would make nothing of beginning
with the creation of the world, and ending with the last protocol of Mr Buchanan! Decidedly,
but for "the one-hour rule" we Britishers should have been "everlastingly used up--and no two
ways about it." Poor old Adams actually did begin his Oregon speech with the first chapter
of Genesis. The title-deeds of the Republic, he said, were to be found in the words, "Be fruitful
and multiply and replenish the earth!" Happily, the fatal hammer of the Speaker put down the
venerable antediluvian, before he got to the end of the chapter.

In the Senate, on the other hand, which is a less numerous, and somewhat more select body,
things still go on in the old-fashioned way. There, when a member has once caught the Speaker's
eye, his fortune is made for the day--perhaps for the week. Accordingly, he takes things easy
from the very first--kicks his spittoon to a convenient angle, offers a libation of cold water
to his parched entrails, and begins. When he leaves off, is another matter altogether--but
not generally till he has gone through the round of human knowledge, explored the past, touched
lightly upon the present, and cast a piercing glance into the darkness of the future. Soon
after three, the Senate adjourns for dinner, and the orator of the day goes to his pudding
with the rest, happy in the reflection that he has done his duty by his country, and will do
it again on the morrow. We have somewhere read of a paradise of fools. Undoubtedly, Congress
is that place. There they enjoy a perfect impunity, and revel in the full gratification of
their instincts. Nobody thinks of coughing them down, or swamping them with ironical cheers.

Indeed, all the arrangements of Congress favour the influence of the sable goddess. In the
first place, the members are paid by the day--eight dollars each. Permit us to observe, Jonathan,
that you scarcely display your usual "smartness" here. It would be much better to contract
with them by the scrape. As for instance--To involving the country in a war with Mexico, so
much--To ditto with Great Britain, so much more. One year you might lay down a lumping sum
for a protective tariff, with an understanding, that it was to be repealed the next at a moderate
advance. You would thus insure the greatest possible variety of political catastrophes, with
the least possible friction and expense. Again, the furniture of the Capitol is altogether
too luxurious. Each member is provided with a private desk, stationery ad lib., a stuffed arm-chair,
and a particular spittoon. No wonder, then, that your Simmses and Chipmans are listened to
with complacency. It's all in the day's work--it's considered in the wages. While these worthies
hold forth for the benefit of distant Missouri and Michigan, their colleagues write their letters,
read the newspapers, chew tobacco, as little boys do toffy in England, and expectorate at leisure.
No one cheers, no one groans, no one cries Oh! Oh!--all the noise that is made is on private
account, and not at all personal to the gentleman on his legs. Yet, such is the deceitfulness
of the human heart, that the Americans are much given to boast of the dignity and decorum of
their Legislature, and to thank God that it is not a bear-garden like another place of the
kind that they wot of. We must have been asked at least six times a-day during our visit at
Washington, "How Congress compared with the British Parliament?" To which we used to reply,
"That they did not compare at all," an answer which fully met the truth of the case, without
in the least wounding the self-love of the querist.

When these malignant pages arrive in New York, every inhabitant of that good city will abuse
us heartily, except our publisher. But great will be the joy of that furacious individual,
as he speculates in secret on the increased demand of his agonised public. Immediately he will
put forth an advertisement, notifying the men of "Gotham," that he has on hand a fresh sample
of BRITISH INSOLENCE, and hinting that, although he knows they care nothing about such things,
the forthcoming piracy of Maga will be on the most extensive scale. Then, all the little newspapers
will take us in hand, and bully us in their little way. It is perhaps a shame to forestall
the acerbities of these ingenious gentlemen, but we know they will call us "anonymous scribbler,"
and "bagman," amongst the rest. They called us "bagman" for our last article, and we were sure
they would. The fact is, that since Lord Morpeth's visit to the United States, the Americans
have taken a very high tone indeed. Their gratitude to that amiable nobleman for not writing
a book about them, is unbounded, and they put him down (why, it is difficult to say) as the
aristocratic, and therefore impartial champion of Demus. Whenever we fell into the bilious
moods to which our plebeian nature is addicted, we were gravely admonished of his bright example,
and assured that to speak evil of the Republic was the infirmity of vulgar minds. There is,
it would appear, a sympathy betwixt "great ones;" a kind of free-masonry betwixt the sovereign
people and the British peerage, which neither party suspected previously, but which is confessed
on the slightest acquaintance.

As generally happens in such cases, the conceit of the Americans takes the most perverse direction.
It is certain that they do many things better than any people under the sun. Their merchant
navy is the finest in the world--their river steamers are miracles of ingenuity,--at felling
timber and packing pork they are unrivalled; and their smartness in the way of trade is acknowledged
by those who know them best. All this, and much more to the same effect, may be admitted without
demur, but all these admissions will avail the traveller nothing. He will be expected to congratulate
them on the elegance of their manners, the copiousness of their literature, and the refinement
of their tastes. He will be confidentially informed that "Lord Morpeth's manners were much
improved by mixing with our first circles, sir;" and what is worse, he will be expected to
believe it, and to carry himself accordingly. "Ripe scholars" who make awful false quantities,
second-rate demagogues passing for "distinguished statesmen," literary empirics, under the
name of "men of power," will claim his suffrages at every turn; and in vain will he draw upon
his politeness to the utmost, in vain assent, ejaculate, and admire--no amount of positive
praise will suffice, till America Felix is admitted to be the chosen home of every grace and
every muse. "Did Mr Bull meet with any of our literary characters at Boston?" Mr Bull had that
happiness. "Well, he was very much pleased of course?" Bull hastens to lay his hand upon his
heart, and to reply with truth that he was pleased. "Yes, sir, we do expect that our Boston
literature is about first-rate. We are a young people, sir, but we are a great people, and
we are bound to be greater still. There is a moral power, sir, an elevation about the New England
mind, which Europeans can scarcely realise. Did you hear Snooks lecture, sir? the Rev. Amos
Snooks of Pisgah? Well, sir, you ought to have heard Snooks. All Europeans calculate to hear
Snooks--he's a fine man, sir, a man of power--one of the greatest men, sir, in this, or perhaps
any other country."

    "Semper ego auditor tantum, nunquam ne reponam,
    Vexatus toties."----

You leave Boston somewhat snubbed and subdued, and betake yourself to the more cosmopolitan
regions of New York. Here, too, "men of power" are to be found in great numbers--but "our first
circles" divide the attention and abuse the patience of the traveller. Boston writes the books,
but New York sets the fashions of the Republic, and is the Elysium of mantua-makers and upholders.
We doubt whether any city in the world of its size can boast so many smart drawing rooms and
so many pretty young women. Indeed, from the age of fifteen to that of five-and-twenty, female
beauty is the rule rather than the exception in the United States, and neither cost nor pains
are spared to set it forth to the best advantage. The American women dress well, dance well,
and in all that relates to what may be called the mechanical part of social intercourse, they
appear to great advantage. Nothing can exceed the self-possession of these pretty creatures,
whose confidence is never checked by the discipline of society, or the restraints of an education
which is terminated almost as soon as it is begun. There is no childhood in America--no youth--no
freshness.

    DANIEL.

There is scarcely a step from the school to the forum--from the nursery to the world. Young
girls, who in England would be all blushes and bread and butter, boldly precede their mammas
into the ball-room; and the code of a mistaken gallantry supplies no corrective to their caprice,
for youth and beauty are here invested with regal prerogatives, and can do no wrong. In short,
the Americans carry their complaisance to the sex beyond due bounds--at least in little things--for
we by no means think that the real influence of their women is great, notwithstanding the tame
and submissive gallantry with which the latter are treated in public. We doubt whether the
most limited gynocracy would tolerate the use of tobacco as an article of daily diet, or permit
ferocious murders to go unwhipped of justice under the name of duels. But the absorbing character
of the pursuits of the men forbids any strong sympathy betwixt the sexes; and perhaps the despotism
which the women exercise in the drawing-room arises from the fact that all that relates to
the graces and embellishments of life is left entirely to them. We do not know that this can
be avoided under the circumstances of the country, but it has a most injurious effect upon
social intercourse. The Americans of both sexes want tact and graciousness of manner, and that
prompt and spontaneous courtesy which is the child of discipline and self-restraint. They are
seldom absolutely awkward, because they are never bashful; they have no mauvaise honte, because
they are all on an equality; hence they never fail to display a certain dry composure of bearing,
which, though not agreeable, is less ludicrous than the gaucherie so commonly observed in all
classes of English society, except the very highest.

It is curious to observe how the manners of two nations of the same origin, and, in a great
degree, of similar instincts, are modified by their political institutions. Neither the British
nor the Americans are distinguished for that natural politeness and savoir vivre, which is
to be found more or less in all other civilised countries. They are both too grave, too busy,
and too ambitious to lay themselves out for trifles, which, after all, go far to make up the
sum of human happiness. As for the Americans, the general aspect of their society is dreary
and monotonous in the extreme. Whatever "our first circles" may say to the contrary, there
is a great equality of manners, as of other things, amongst them; but if the standard is nowhere
very high, it never falls so low as with us; if there is less refinement and cultivation amongst
the higher classes, (we beg Demus' pardon for the expression,) there is on the other hand less
grossness, certainly less clownishness, among the mass. Of course there are many individuals
in this, as in other countries, remarkable for natural grace and genteel bearing; but the class
which is pre-eminent in these respects, is very small and ill-defined. The great national defect
is a want of sprightliness and vivacity, and an impartial insouciance in their intercourse
with all classes and conditions of men. For if inequality has its evils, it has also its charms;
as the prospect of swelling mountains and lowly vales is more pleasing to the eye than that
of the monotonous, though more fertile champaign. Now, as the relation of patrician and plebeian,
of patron and client, of master and servant, of superior and inferior, can scarcely be said
to exist in the United States, so all the nice gradations of manner which are elicited by those
relations, are wanting also. The social machine rubs on with as little oil as possible--there
is but small room for the exercise of the amenities and charities of life. The favours of the
great are seldom rewarded by the obsequiousness of the small. No leisure and privileged class
exists to set an example of refined and courtly bearing; but there are none, however humble,
who may not affect the manners of their betters without impertinence, and aspire to the average
standard of the Republic. Hence, almost every native American citizen is capable of conducting
himself with propriety, if not with ease, in general society. What are fine ladies and gentlemen
to him, that he should stand in awe of them? Simply persons who have been smarter or earlier
in the field of fortune than himself, who will "burst up" some fine morning, and leave the
road open to others. The principle of rotation[6] is not confined to the political world of
the United States, but obtains in every department of life. It is throughout the same song--

    "Here we go up, up, up,
    And here we go down, down, down."

Law and opinion, and the circumstances of the country, are alike opposed to the accumulation
of property, so that it is rare for two successive generations of the same family to occupy
the same social position. The ease with which fortunes are made, or repaired, is only equalled
by the recklessness with which they are lost. Prosperity, at some time or other, appears to
be the birth-right of every citizen; and, where all are parvenus alike, there are none to assume
the airs of exclusiveness, or to crush the last comer beneath the weight of traditional and
time-honoured grandeur.

It is not easy to dismiss the peculiarities of our British society in a paragraph. Bull, however,
to be appreciated, must be seen in the midst of his own household gods, with his family and
bosom friends about him. This is what may be called the normal state of that fine fellow--and
here Jonathan can't hold a candle to him. American interiors want relief and variety of colouring.
Their children are not like the children of the Old World: they don't romp, or prattle, or
get into mischief, or believe in Bogie. They seem to take brevet rank, from the first, as men
and women, and are quite inaccessible to nursery humbug of any kind. They are never whipped,
and eat as much pastry as they think proper; whereby they grow up dyspeptic and rational beyond
their years. Parents don't appear to exercise any particular functions, masters (we again beg
Demus's pardon for the poverty of the vernacular) have nothing magisterial about them, and
servants won't stomach even the name, at least if they wear white skins, and know it. After
the first burst of admiration at the philosophy of the thing, it grows tiresome to live amongst
people who are all so much alike. Now in England the distinctions of age, and rank, and sex,
are much more strongly marked; while in those countries of Europe which are still less under
the influence of the equalising spirit of the age, the social landscape is still more variegated
and picturesque. With us, two adverse principles are at work; and this is the reason why our
British society is so anomalous to ourselves, and so entirely beyond the comprehension of foreigners.
Whenever our brave Bull is thrown into a mixed company abroad, or even at home, where the social
position of those with whom he is brought into contact is unknown to him, there is no end to
the blundering and nonsense of the worthy fellow. Go where he will, he is haunted by the traditions
of his eccentric island, and desperately afraid of placing himself in what he calls a false
position. At home, he has one manner for his nobleman, another for his tradesman, another for
his valet; and he would rather die than fail in the orthodox intonation appropriate to each.
Who has not observed the strange mixture of petulance and mauvaise honte which distinguishes
so many of our English travellers on the Continent? Decidedly, we appear to less advantage
in public than any people in the world. Place a Briton and an American, of average parts and
breeding, on board a Rhine steam-boat, and it is almost certain that the Yankee will mix up,
so to speak, the better of the two. The gregarious habits of our continental neighbours are
more familiar to him than to his insular kinsman, and he is not tormented like the latter by
the perpetual fear of failing, either in what is due to himself or to others. His manners will
probably want polish and dignity; he will be easy rather than graceful, communicative rather
than affable; but he will at least preserve his Republican composure, alike in his intercourse
with common humanity, or in the atmosphere of more courtly and exclusive circles.

The art of pleasing is nowhere well understood in the United States: but the beauty of the
women, though transient, is unrivalled while it lasts, and perhaps in no country is the standard
of female virtue so high. The formal and exaggerated attention which the sex receives from
all classes in public, is at least a proof of the high estimation in which it is held, and
must, we think, be put down as an amiable trait in the American character.

We are quite sure, for instance, that females may travel unattended in the United States with
far more ease and security than in any country of the Old World: and the deference paid to
them is quite irrespective of the rank of the fair objects--it is a tribute paid to the woman
and not to the lady. Some travellers we believe have denied this. We can only say, that during
a pretty extensive tour we do not recollect a single instance in which even the unreasonable
wishes of women were not complied with as of course. We did remark with less satisfaction the
ungracious manner in which civilities were received by these spoilt children of the Republic--the
absence of apologetic phrases, and those courtesies of voice and expression, with which women
usually acknowledge the deference paid to their weakness and their charms. But this is a national
failing. The Americans are too independent to confess a sense of obligation, even in the little
conventional matters of daily intercourse. They have almost banished from the language such
phrases as, "Thank you," "If you please," "I beg your pardon," and the like. The French, who
are not half so attentive to women as the Americans, pass for the politest nation in Europe,
because they know how to veil their selfishness beneath a profusion of bows and pretty speeches.
Now, when your Yankee is invited to surrender his snug seat in a stage or a railroad carriage
in favour of a fair voyager, he does not hesitate for a moment. He expectorates, and retires
at once. But no civilities are interchanged; no smiles or bows pass betwixt the parties. The
gentleman expresses no satisfaction--the lady murmurs no apologies.

Even now we see in our mind's eye the pert, pretty little faces, and the loves of bonnets which
flirt and flutter along Broadway in the bright sunshine--Longum Vale! In the flesh we shall
see them no more. No more oysters at Downing's, no more terrapins at Florence's, no more fugacious
banquets at the Astor House. We have traduced the State, and for us there is no return. The
commercial house which we represent, has offered to renew its confidence, but it has failed
to restore ours. No amount of commission whatever, will tempt us to affront the awful majesty
of Lynch, or to expose ourselves to the tar-and-feathery tortures which he prepares for those
who blaspheme the Republic. We have ordered our buggy for the Home Circuit, and propose, by
a course of deliberate mastication, and unlimited freedom of speech, to repair the damage which
our digestion, and we fear our temper, has sustained during our travels in "the area of freedom."

FOOTNOTES:

[5] [Greek: Estig ara ê aretê exisproaixetikt, en mesotêtizusa tê pros êmas ôrismenê dogô]

[6] The principle of rotation in office is a favourite crochet of the Democratic party, and
is founded upon the Republican jealousy of power. General Jackson went so far as to recommend
that all official appointments whatever should be limited by law to the Presidential term of
four years. As it is, whenever a change of parties occurs, a clean sweep is made of all the
officers of government, from the highest to the lowest. Custom-house officers, jailers, &c.,
all share the fate of their betters. It is only surprising that the business of the country
is carried on as well as it is, under the influence of this corrupting system.

HORÆ CATULLIANÆ.

LETTER TO EUSEBIUS.

You are far more anxious, my dear Eusebius, to know somewhat of the progress or the result
of the Curate's misfortune, than to read his or my translations from Catullus. I have a great
mind to punish that love of mischief in you, by burying the whole affair in profound secresy.
It is fortunate for him that you are not here, or you would surely indulge your propensity,
and with malicious invention put the whole parish, with the Curate, into inextricable confusion.
It is bad enough as it is. There!--it cannot be helped--I must tell you at once the condition
we are in, if I would have you read the rest of my letter with any patience.

A committee has been sitting these two days, to sift, as they pronounce them, "the late disgraceful
proceedings;" so that you see, they are of the school of Rhadamanthus,--condemn first, and
hear afterwards. We have, in this little township, two "general shopkeepers," dealers in groceries,
mops, calicoes, candles, and the usual "omnium-gatherum" of household requirements.

These are great rivals--envious rivals--back-biting rivals; both, in the way of tale-bearing,
what Autolicus calls himself, "pickers-up of unconsidered trifles." And truly, in the trade
of this commodity, if in no other, this may be called a "manufacturing district." Now the Curate,
unhappily, can buy his tea and sugar, and trifling matters, but of one--for to patronise both,
would be to make enemies of both; the poor Curate, then, in preferring the adulterated goods
of Nicolas Sandwell, to the adulterated goods of Matthew Miffins, has made an implacable enemy.
Really, Eusebius, here is machinery enough for a heroic poem: for Virgil's old Lady Fame on
the top of the roof we have three, active and lusty--and you may make them the Fates or the
Furies, or what you please, except the Graces. Prateapace, Gadabout, and Brazenstare--there
are characters enough for episodes; and a hero--but what, you will say, are we to do for a
heroine? Here is one, beat out of the brain of Mathew Miffins, a ready-armed Minerva. You will
smile, but it is so. The three above-named ladies first made their way to the shop of Mr Miffins,
narrated what had passed and what had not. Having probably just completed "sanding the sugar
and watering the tobacco," he raised both his hands and his eyes, and, to lose no time in business,
dropped them as soon as he decently could, and, pressing both palms strongly on the counter,
he asked, if they entertained any suspicion of a particular person as being the object of the
Curate's most unbecoming passion? Lydia Prateapace remembered, certainly, a name being mentioned--it
was Lesby or Lisby, or something like that. "Indeed!" said Miffins, arching his brows, and
significantly touching the tip of his nose with his forefinger--"ah! indeed! a foreigner, depend
upon it--a Lisbon lady; that, Miss, is the capital of Portugal, where them figs comes from.
Only think, a foreign lady--a lady from Lisbon--that is too bad!" to which the three readily
assented. "I doubt not, ladies," he continued, "it's one of them foreigners as lives near Ashford,
about five miles off--where I knows the Curate goes two or three times in a week."

Thus, Eusebius, is Catullus's Lesbia, who herself stood for another, converted into a Portuguese
lady, whom the Curate visits some five miles off--or, as the three ladies say, protects.

If you ask how I came by this accurate information, learn that our Gratian's Jahn was at the
further counter, making a purchase of mole-traps, and saw and heard, and reported. The first
meeting was held in Miffins' back-parlour; but fame had beat up for recruits, and that was
found far too small; so they have adjourned to the Blue Boar, where, the tap being good, and
the landlord a busybody, they are likely to remain a little longer than Muzzle-brains can see
to draw up a report. The Curate's door is chalked, and adjacent walls--"No Kissing," "The Clerical
Judas," "Who Kissed the School-mistress?" and many such-like morsels. But if fame has thus
been playing with the kaleidoscope of lies, multiplying and giving every one its match, she
has likewise shown them about through her magnifying glass, and brought the most distantly
circulated home to the poor Curate. In a little town a few miles off, it has been reported
that Miss Lydia Prateapace has been obliged to "swear the peace against him," which "swearing
the peace" is, in most cases, a declaration of war.

Meanwhile the Curate has taken his cue, to do nothing and say nothing upon the subject; and,
as in all his misadventures, that was the part taken by Yorick, if his friends do not rescue
him, he may have Yorick's penalty. Thus much at present, my dear Eusebius; I will occasionally
report progress, but it is now time that we resume our translations, hoping you will find amusement
in our

HORÆ CATULLIANÆ.

I told you Gratian, worthy veracious Gratian, had hastened away to an Agricultural meeting,
to vindicate the character of his Belgian carrots. This vindication inundated us for some days
with agricultural visitors. And Gratian was proud, and, like Virgil, "tossed about the dung
with dignity." We saw little of him, and when he did appear, "his talk was of bullocks;" so
how could he "have understanding," at least for Catullus? Had not a neighbouring fair taken
off the agriculturists after a few days, his ideas, like his stick, would have become porcine.
He rode his hobby, and at a brisk pace; and, when a little tired of him, stabled him and littered
him, and seemed glad of a little quiet and leg-tapping in his easy-chair. He had worked off
the lessened excitement by an evening's nap, and awoke recruited; and, with a pleasant smile,
asked the Curate if he had had recently any communication with his friend Catullus.

CURATE.--We left him, I believe, in the very glory of kissing--his insatiable glory. He now
comes to a check--Lesbia is weary, if he is not.

AQUILIUS.--It is a mere lovers' quarrel, and is only the prelude to more folly, like the blank
green baize curtain, between the play and the farce. He affects anger--a thin disguise: he
would give worlds to "kiss and be friends again." His vexation is evident.

GRATIAN.--Ah! it is an old story--and not the worse for that--come, Mr Curate, show up Catullus
in his true motley. He was privileged at his age to play the fool--so are we all at one time
or another, if we do it not too wisely. A wise fool is the only Asinine.--Now for Catullus's folly.

CURATE.--Thus, then, to himself:--

    AD CATULLUM.

    Sad Catullus, cease your moan,
      Or your folly you'll deplore;
    What you see no more your own,
      Think of as your own no more.

    Once the suns shone on you clearly,
      When it was your wont to go
    Seeking her you loved so dearly,--
      Will you e'er love woman so?

    Then those coquetries amusing
      Were consented to by both--
    Done at least of your free choosing,
      Nor was she so very loth.

    Then, indeed, the suns shone clearly,
      Now their light is half gone out;
    She is loth--and you can merely
      Learn the way to do without.

    Cease, then, your untimely wooing,
      Steel your purpose, and be strong;
    If she flies you, why, pursuing,
      Make your sorrow vain and long?

    Farewell, Fair!--Catullus hardens;
      Where he is, will he remain;
    He is not a man who pardons
      One that must be asked again.

    She'll be sad in turn, the charmer,
      When the shades of eventide
    Bring no gallants to alarm her,
      No Catullus to her side.

    Lost to every sense of duty,
      Say, what can you, will you do?
    Who'll find out that you have beauty?
      Who'll be loved in turn by you?

    Whose will you be called of right?
      Whom will you in future kiss?
    Whose lips will you have to bite?--
      O Catullus, keep to this!

GRATIAN.--Well, now, I think your choice of metre a little too much of the measured elegiac,
for the bursts of alternate passion, love, and anger--those sudden breaks of vexation, which
I see, or fancy I see, in the original Latin. Now, Aquilius, let us hear you personate the
"vexed lover."

AQUILIUS.

    AD SEIPSUM.

    Foolish Catullus--trifling ever--
    Dismiss so fruitless an endeavour;
    Let by-gone days be days by-gone,
    Though fine enough some days have shone,--
    When if she but held up her finger
    Whom you so loved--and still you linger,
    Nor dare to part with--you observant,
    Were at her beck her humble servant;
    Follow'd her here and there: and did
    Such things! which she would not forbid--
    Love's follies, without stint or doubt:
    Oh! then your days shone finely out.
    But now 'tis quite another thing,--
    She likes not your philandering:
    And you yourself! But be it over--
    Act not again the silly lover--
    But let her go--be hard as stone;
    So let her go--and go alone.
    Adieu, sweet lady! 'Tis in vain!
    Catullus is himself again--
    Will neither love, want, nor require,
    But gives you up as you desire.
    Wretch! you will grieve for this full sore,
    When lovers come to you no more.
    For think you, false one, to what pass,
    Your wretched days will come? Alas!
    No beauty yours--not one to say
    How beautiful she looks to-day!
    Whom will you have to love--to hear
    Yourself called by his name, his dear?
    Whom will you have to kiss,--be kiss'd
    And bind your names, in true-love twist?
    Whose lips to bite so?--yes--to bite.}
    --Catullus, spare thy love or spite:}
    Be firm as rock--or conquered quite.}

CURATE.--I protest against this as a translation. He has indeed, as he professed, brought his
puppet Catullus upon the stage, and, like Shakspeare's bad actor, has put more words in his
mouth than the author bargained for. The very last words are quite contradicted by the text.
Catullus does not hint at the possibility of being conquered, of giving in.

GRATIAN.--Oh! that, is always implied in these cases. Besides Catullus evidently doubts, or
he would not have so enforced the caution; "At tu, Catulle"--the translation may be a little
free, but still admissible.

AQUILIUS.--My friend the Curate has committed the fault himself, if it be one: his "O Catullus,
keep to this!" so evidently means, If you do not, it is all over with you.

GRATIAN.--Give me the book.--Oh!--I see we have next that very elegant and very affectionate
welcome home to his friend Verannius, on his return from Spain, whither he had gone with Caius
Piso. There is much heart in it, and true joy and gratulation. This is the sort of welcome
that throws a sunshine upon the path of the days of human life. There is no trouble when friend
greets friend. Have you translated this?

AQUILIUS.--I fear your commendation will resemble too rich a frame to a poor picture, and make
all more dingy by the glow of the genuine gold.

But here I venture to offer, my translation:--the warmth of the original--the tenderness, is
not perhaps in it:

    AD VERANNIUM.

    Sweet friend, Verannius, welcome home at last!
    Had I a thousand friends, all were surpass'd
    By my Verannius! Art thou home return'd,
    To thine own household gods, and hearts that yearn'd
    To greet thee--brothers happy in one mind,
    And thy dear mother, too,--all fond, all kind?
    O happy, happy news! and now again
    To see thee safe! and hear thee talk of Spain--
    Its history, places, people, and array,
    Telling of all in thy old pleasant way!
    And shall I hold thee in a friend's embrace,
    Gaze on thy mouth, and in thine eyes, and trace
    The features of the well-remember'd face!
    Oh, if one happiest man on earth there be,
    Amongst the happy, I, dear friend, am he!

CURATE.--This Verannius, and his friend Fabullus, seem to have been upon the most intimate
and familiar terms with our poet. Little presents, pledges of their mutual friendship, had
doubtless been given and received. Catullus elsewhere complains against Marrucinus Asinius,
that he had stolen a handkerchief, sent him out of Spain by Verannius and Fabullus.

AQUILIUS.--Have you not translated it?

CURATE.--No.

AQUILIUS.--I have, and will read it, after yours to Verannius: and it is curious as showing
that the Romans had the practice of using handkerchiefs, or napkins, of value,--perhaps such
a fashion as is now revived by the other sex,--and embroidered with lace.

GRATIAN.--Now, Mr Curate.--If you let our friend digress thus, we shall never have your version.

CURATE.--

    AD VERANNIUM.

    My friend, the dearest and the best,
    E'en though ten thousand I possess'd!--
    My own Verannius! art thou come
    To greet again thy gods of home,
    And brethren that so well agree
    Together, and in loving thee--
    And come to thy sweet mother, too?
    O blessed news! and it is true,
    That I shall see thee safe at last;
    And hear thee tell thy travel pass'd--
    Of Spanish places, things, and tribes,
    (While every word my heart imbibes,)
    In thine old way: shall I embrace
    Thy neck--and kiss thy pleasant face?
    Find me the happy where you can,
    I still shall be the happiest man.

GRATIAN.--What are we to have next?

AQUILIUS.--An invitation to dinner, or, as the Romans made it, supper--and a curious invitation
it is. Fabullus, to whom it was addressed, was companion to his friend Verannius--and both
were with the pestilent Piso, in Spain.

CURATE.--And brought little out of it; but returned poorer than they went--as did, it should
seem, Catullus himself from Bithynia. So that I should imagine the invitation to Fabullus was
a mere jest upon their mutual poverty. For it does not appear that Fabullus was in a condition
to indulge in luxuries.

AQUILIUS.--Perhaps, when the invitation was sent, Catullus was not aware that his friend had
been as unsuccessful, under Piso, as he had himself been, under Memmius. Thus stands the invitation:--

    AD FABULLUM.

    A few days hence, my dear Fabullus,
      If the gods grant you that high favour,
    You shall sup well with your Catullus;
      For, to ensure the dishes' savour,
    Yourself shall cater, and shall cull us
      Best fruits--and wines of choicest flavour.
    And with you bring your lass--fun--laughter--
      All plenty: nor confine your wishes
      To supernumerary dishes;--
    Bring all--and pay the piper after.
    Rich be your fare--and all fruition,
      Taste, elegance, and sweet discourses
    Familiar, on that one condition.
      For, truth to tell, my wretched purse is
    In its last stage of inanition,
      And not a single coin disburses:
    A cobweb's over it, and in it--
    That Spider Want there loves to spin it.

    Setting aside this lack of coffer,
      Which you can supply, Fabullus,
    Accept good welcome--and I offer,
      For company, your friend Catullus.
    Yet, though so hard my purse's case is,
      With such rare unguents I'll present you,
    Compounded by the Loves and Graces
      For my dear girl, that you shall scent you
    With perfume more divine than roses;
      And after, pray the gods, within you,
      To change sense, nerve, bone, muscle, sinew,
    And make you all compact of noses.

CURATE.--There you are again bolting out of the course. Sending poor Fabullus to market, without
money in his purse,--not a word in the original of fruit-culling and "paying the piper."

AQUILIUS.--If Gratian had not the book in his hand, I would boldly assert that it is all there.
He will admit it is the entire meaning.

CURATE.--With the elegant diction, "paying the piper," indeed! "Hæc si, inquam, attuleris,
venuste noster."

GRATIAN.--Well, I almost think "venuste noster," "my good fellow," or "my pleasant fellow,"
will allow the freedom of the translation, for it is a free and easy appellative. Come, then,
Curate, let us have your accurate version.

CURATE.--Perhaps you may think, when you hear it, that I am in the same predicament of blame
with Aquilius, and that my criticism was a ruse, to divide the censure pretty equally.

    AD FABULLUM.

    Fabullus, if the gods will let you,
    Before a table I will set you,
    A few days hence, with welcome hearty,
    To my domestic dinner-party.
    That is to say--you bring the food,
    (Which must be plentiful and good,)
    With wine--remembering, I presume,
    For one fair girl I've always room.
    On these conditions you shall dine
    Luxurious, boon-companion mine.
    Seeing that your Catullus' purse
    Has nought but cobwebs left to nurse,
    I can but give you in return
    The loves that undiluted burn;
    And, something sweeter, neater still--
      A scented unguent I'll impart,
    Which Venus and her Loves distil
      To please the girl that owns my heart:
    Which when you smell, this boon--this solely
      You'll ask the gods to recompose;
    And metamorphose you, and wholly,
      To one extensive Roman nose.

AQUILIUS.--What nose would a Roman wish to have? I object to Roman, though it is not a bad
one for the purpose. The metamorphosed would certainly have a ballad written on him and sung
about the streets. Write it, and call him "The Man-mountain, or real and undoubted Promontory
of Noses."

GRATIAN.--It should seem they were like enough to feast--like their gods they so irreverently
prayed to--on the smell and the smoke only; so they needed good noses and bad appetites. There
is something a little abrupt in the latter part, which I doubt if I like: the Loves and Graces
should not be made parties to the making of such a monster; and as monster is now-a-days all
adopted adjective, follow the fashion of speech, and call it "One extensive Monster-Nose."--Well,
what next?

AQUILIUS.--A little piece of extravagant badinage. It seems Calvus Licinius had sent Catullus
a collection of miserable poems, and that, too, on commencement of the Saturnalia, dedicated
to joy, and freedom from care and annoyance. Our author writes to complain of the malicious
present. There is some force, and a fair fling of contempt at the bad poets of the day in it.

    AD CALVUM LICINIUM, ORATOREM.

    Now if I loved you less, my friend,
    Facetious Calvus, than these eyes,
    You merit hatred in such wise
    As men Vatinius hate. To send
    Such stuff to me! Have I been rash
    In word or deed? The gods forfend!
    That you should kill me with such trash,
    Of vile and deleterious verse--
    Volumes on volumes without end,
    Of ignominious poets, worse
    Than their own works. May gods be pliant,
    And grant me this: that poison--pest
    Light on 'em all, and on that client
    Who sent 'em you; and you in jest
    Transfer them, odious, and mephitic,
    And execrable. I suspect 'em
    Sent you by that grammarian critic,
    Sulla. If so, and you have lost
    No precious labour to collect 'em,
    'Tis well indeed; and little cost
    To you, with malice aforethought,
    To send (and with intent to kill him,
    And on this blessed day, when nought
    But Saturnalian joys should fill him)
    Your friend Catullus such a set
    Of murderous authors; but the debt
    I'll pay, be even with you yet--
    For no perfidious friend I spare.
    At early dawn, ere the sun shine, I
    Will rise, and ransack shop and stall,
    Collect your Cæsii and Aquini,
    And that Suffenus: and with care
    And diligence, will have all sent
    To you, for a like punishment.
    Hence, poets! with your jingling chimes:
    Hence, miserables! halt and lame;
    Be off, ye troublers of our times!
    I send you packing whence ye came.

GRATIAN.--Kicking about the volumes, doubtless, as the "Friend of Humanity" did the "Needy
Knife-grinder."

CURATE.--I did not translate that--for I thought the authors might easily have been burned
for writing bad verses (no hint to you, Aquilius; nothing personal); and that Calvus Licinius,
having that remedy, need not have written about them. And I confess I don't see much in what
he has written. This Suffenus, however, was no fool, but a man of wit and sense.

AQUILIUS.--Yes,--and Catullus writes to Varrus specially about him. I have translated that
too. Here it is:--

    AD VARRUM.

    This man Suffenus, whom you know,
    Varrus, is not without some show
    Of parts, and gift of speech befitting
    A man of sense. Yet he mistakes
    His talents wondrously, and makes
    His thousand verses at a sitting.
    And troth, he makes them look their best:
    For, not content with palimpsest,
    He has them writ on royal vellum,
    Emboss'd and gilded, rubb'd and polish'd:
    But read 'em, and you wish abolish'd
    The privilege to make or sell 'em.
    You read them, and the man is quite
    Another man: no more polite--
    No more "the man about the town,"
    But metamorphosed to a clown--
    Milker of goats, a hedger, digger,
    So thoroughly is changed his figure,
    So quite unlike himself. 'Tis odd,
    Most strange, the man for wit so noted,
    Whose repartees so much were quoted,
    Is changed into a very clod!
    And stranger still--he never seems
    Quite to himself to be himself,
    As when of poetry he dreams,
    And writes and writes, and fills his reams
    With poems destined for the shelf.
    We are deceived--in this twin-brothers
    All. There's one vanity between us,
    And our self-knowledge stands to screen us
    From our true portraits. Knowing others,
    We ticket each man with his vice;
    And find, most accurately nice,
    In all a something of Suffenus.
    Thus every man one knowledge lacks;
    Our error is--we read the score
    Of each man as he walks before,
    And bear our tickets at our backs.

GRATIAN.--True, indeed--as old fables mostly are. There is in them the depth of wisdom acquired
by experience.

CURATE.--I fear experience alone won't do much. It seems thrown away upon most people. They
continue follies to the end. I suppose Cicero thought himself a poet; though it may be doubted
if he wrote the line as Juvenal gives it,

    "O fortunatam natam me consule Romam."

Perhaps most men's natural common sense has a less wide range than they think. For there are
some things obvious to all besides, that the wisest cannot see.

AQUILIUS.--Cicero was less likely to see any defect in himself than most men. He had consummate
vanity--which must have led him into many a ridiculous position. But there were no Boswells
in those days. I never could understand how it is that so great an admiration of Cicero has
come over mankind. Even in language he has had an evil influence; and our literature for a
long period was tainted with it. Sensible himself, he taught the art of writing fluently without
sense. The flow and period--the esse videatur--a style too common with us less than half a
century ago--you might read page after page, and pause to wonder what you had been reading
about. The upper current of the book did not disturb the under current of your own thoughts,
perhaps aided by the lulling music.

CURATE.--The vanity of Cicero was too manifest. It is a pity, for the sake of his reputation,
that the letter to his friend, in which he requested him to write his life, is extant. To tell
him plainly that it is the duty of a friend to exaggerate his virtues, is a mean vanity--unworthy
such a man.

GRATIAN.--Come, come! let him rest; our business is with Catullus. Curate, let us have your
translation.

CURATE.--I pass by the account of Suffenus, as well as some other pieces, and come to that
very short one in which he complains of the mortgage which is on his villa. It is a wretched
pun on the word "opponere," and was scarcely worth translating;--take it, however:

    AD FURIUM.

    You, Furius, ask against what wind
      My little villa stands--
    If Auster, or Favonius kind
      Who comes o'er western lands,
    Or cruel Boreas, or that one
    That rises with the morning sun?

    Alas--it stands against a breeze
      Which beats against the door,
    Of fifteen thousand sesterces,
      And twice a hundred more.
    I challenge you on earth to find
    So foul and pestilent a wind.

AQUILIUS.--What! do you look for a wind on earth,--it blows over it; and catch it who can.

GRATIAN.--It blows every where. The worst I know is that which blows down the chimney. And
that reminds me to tell you what a town-bred chimney-sweeper said, the other day, to a friend
of mine, in the valley yonder, who wanted to have a smoky chimney cured. My friend inquired
if he could teach it not to smoke. "How can I tell?" said he, "I must take out a brick first
and look into his intellects."

CURATE.--Not the march--but the sweep of intellect spoke there.

AQUILIUS.--And spoke not amiss; it was merely to see if he had a mind to be cured.

GRATIAN.--Perhaps you have translated that sweep's language better than your passages from
Catullus.

AQUILIUS.--I did not attempt to translate that little piece,--but ran quite out of course,
as the Curate would tell me, in a long paraphrase. The idea is, however, furnished by Catullus,--so
I dedicate it

    AD FURIUM.

    You ask me if my villa lies
      Exposed to north, east, west, or south:
    I answer,--every wind that flies,
      Flies at it, and with open mouth.

    From every quarter winds assail,
      But that which comes from quarter-day,
    Though it four times a-year prevail,
      It does but whistle, and not pay.

    Some blow from far, and some hard by;
      One, mortgage-wind, takes shortest journey,
    Only across the way from Sly,
      And blasts with "power of attorney."

    But what is worse than windy racks is,
      My windows leak at every pane,
    And are not tight 'gainst rates and taxes.
      My roof and doors let in the rain--

    The only let my villa knows.
      So that with taxes, wind, and wet,
    From whatsoever point it blows,
      My house is blown upon unlet.

Now, I hope my friend the Curate will admit so far to be rather a lengthy translation. I say
nothing of addenda--thus:--

    "Winds blow, and crack your cheeks,"--alack,
      Who said it, wanted house and halls,
    Nor knew winds have no cheeks to crack,
      In short crack nothing but my walls.

    My friends console--"the winds will drop:"
      'Tis equal trouble to my mind;
    For if it tumbles on the top,
      You know I cannot raise the wind.

    To sum up all--for its location;--
      The question's of importance vital;--
    In Chancery--wretched situation;
      A rascal there disputes my title.

CURATE.--You are coming it pretty strong, and quite blowing up Catullus with your hurricane
of winds. After all the household miseries in your lines, a cheering glass may set things to
rights a little. Here, then, is what he says to his wine-server:--

    AD PUERUM.

    Boy, that at my drinking-bout
    Servest old Falernian out,
    Fill me faster cups, and quicker,
    With the spirit-stirring liquor.
    So Posthumia's law doth say,--
    Mistress of the feast to-day;
    She more vinous than the grape.
    Springs of water--bane of wine--
    Where ye please for me and mine,
    Avaunt, begone, escape!
    Emigrate to men demure.
    My bumper is Thyonian pure.

GRATIAN.--I am afraid, Curate, that if you were to take what you please to call "the cheering
glass," such as the jade Posthumia would recommend, we should have to put you to bed pretty
early. It was the custom, it should seem, of the ancients to make a throw of the dice to determine
the arbiter of the feast--to appoint the drinking. Who threw Venus (three sixes) was the magister;
but the magistra is a novelty; a "Venus Ebria," whose drinking law would throw all; for "wine
is a wrestler, and a shrewd one too." Doesn't Shakspeare say so? Now for your version, Aquilius.

AQUILIUS.--Curate will say, I am not so close to the original. But, on such a subject, we may
be allowed to walk not quite straight;--a little zig-zaggy. Spite the coming criticism I venture:--

    AD PUERUM SUUM,

    (To his Wine-server.)

    Pour me out, boy, the generous juice.
      The racy, true, the old Falernus;
    Such wines as, to Posthumia's thinking,
      Are only fit for mortals' use;
    When in her glory, drunk, and winking,
    The dame would quaff, and wisely learn us
      The good old simple law of drinking.

    But water shun;--Hence, waters! go,
      E'en as ye will, to chill Avernus,
    Or whereso'er ye please to flow;--
    Be drink for all the dull, the slow,
    The sad, the serious, the phlegmatic;
    But leave this juice, this pure stomachic,
      Its own, its unadulterate glow;--
    This--this alone is genuine Bacchic!

GRATIAN.--Well, then, that must be our parting cup for the night, and a pretty good "night-cap"
it is. I was afraid, Aquilius, when you came to the "phlegmatic" you would rhyme it to "rheumatic,"
and so on to the "water-cure." You know that is recommended in rheumatic cases; but perhaps
you don't know that I tried it. I had the water-drinking, the wet sheets, and all the rest of it.

AQUILIUS.--And are here to tell of it!

GRATIAN.--Yes, and return to the old tap, (tapping his thigh and leg pretty smartly;) and I
suppose I must stick to it.

CURATE.--A medical friend told me the other day of a discussion upon this subject, which I
thought very amusing, as he narrated it remarkably well, imitating the tones and dialect (Somersetshire)
of at least one of the speakers. He had some years before attended an old man in the country--a
farmer well to do in the world--a man of very strong natural understanding, but entirely uneducated.
He had lost sight of him for some years, when, not long since, he was sent for to the old farm-house.
Instead of the old stone floor, there was a carpet laid down, and an air of smartness over
every thing, which he had never seen before. It turned out, that the old man's daughter had
married: a smartish man, the husband, was in the room, and to show his general knowledge of
things, and acquaintance with the world, he advocated the water-cure, and questioned my medical
friend as to his opinion. A voice from the chimney-corner (the settle in it) cried out, "It
ain't na'tral." My friend had not before seen the old man, he was so retired into the recess.
After having given his opinion to the bridegroom, he turned to his old acquaintance, and said
"You remarked that it is not natural. What do you mean by natural?" "Why," replied the old
man, "I do think, most dumb critturs knows what's good for 'em; and when a dog's sick doesn't
he eat grass? If a sheep's ill, don't he lick chalk or salt if he can get it? And if a beast's
ill," (I forget what he said was the cure for a beast);--"but did you ever see any of them
go and lie down in the water, or fill themselves wi' it? There's plenty of it in ditches, and
every where else, too, hereabouts. No, you never did." Then, looking up in the face of his
orator son-in-law, he added, "And you don't know why you never see'd it, nor why they don't
do it. No, I know you don't. Vy, I do--because they ha' got more zense." This was said with
a kind of contempt which was quite a floorer to the new wiseacre.

GRATIAN.--Thanks for the story! now that is just the sense that I have acquired at some cost,
and no cure; but I didn't get at it naturally as your old friend did. So now for sleep, and
good-night.

The Curate and I did not part so soon. Time flew, and we seemed to shorten the night--"noctem
vario sermone," as sayeth Virgil of poor Dido, who must have found the conversation considerably
flag with the stupid Æneas.

"Noctem vario sermone trahebat--it was a sad drag. It must have become very tiresome, a little
while before that, when ill-mannered Bitias drank up all the wine, and buried his face in the
cup, "pleno se proluit auro." And they had been obliged to resort to singing, always the refuge
from the visible awkwardness of nothing to say. And here I cannot but remark, Eusebius, what
dull things their songs must have been on natural philosophy, sun, moon, and stars--songs,
Virgil tells you, edited by the old Astronomer-general Atlas. But as this was before the foundation
of Rome, they had not that variety for their selection, which was as much in fashion afterwards
in Rome as Moore's Melodies in England, as we learn from Mr Macaulay, and his version and edition
of the "Lays." They had no piccolo pianofortes in those days, or they would have had something
lighter than the Lays, as the better after-supper Poet calls it--a

    "Something more exquisite still."

But I am apparently, Eusebius, leaving the Curate to sleep or to meditate upon his own unhappy
condition while I thus turn the current of my talk upon you. Unhappy condition, did I say?
He seems to bear it wonderfully lightly; and once or twice, when the subject has been mentioned,
indulged in an irreverend laugh. Now, I know you will ask how a laugh can be irreverend. Don't
you know the world well enough, Eusebius, to know, that before a very great number of men,
women, and children, a curate must not laugh, dare not laugh--blessed indeed, and divested
of the wretched rags of humanity, if he cannot laugh. None but a Bishop, or a Dean, who, in
the eyes of the many, is a kind of extra-parochial nonentity, can really, in these times of
severe reprobation for trifling peccadillos, afford to laugh; and they had better do it in
private, and with aprons off--never before the Chapter, who all, themselves, laugh in private.
Man, you know, is the only risible creature; but a Curate must begin to know, from the moment
he has put on his surplice, that he is to discard at once, and for ever, this human and irreverend
instinct. Had you lived in the triumphal days of the Puritans, what penalties would you not
have had to undergo, what buffetings and duckings, ere you could finally have overcome your
strong natural wicked propensity, and have sobered down, and riveted in iron gravity and moroseness
those flexible, those mockingly flexible features of yours. As it is, in these days of "revival,"
you only meet with considerable contempt, and evil opinion, which, as it comes rather late
upon you, comes as an amusing novelty and additional provocative. But you may be sure what
you can afford to do, the Curate cannot. For the present, therefore, let his few indulgences
that way be a secret. He will mend in time. For so it happens, that though the longer we live
the more we have to laugh at, we lose considerably our power of laughing. And that--between
ourselves be it said, Eusebius--is, I think, a strong proof of our deterioration. A man, to
laugh well, must be an honest man--mind, I say laugh: when Shakspeare says

                "A man may smile and smile,
    And be a villain,"

he purposely says smile, in contradistinction to laugh. He cannot laugh and be a villain. A
man cannot plot and laugh. A man may be much less innocent even when he thinks himself devout,
than in his hour of merriment, when he assuredly has no guile; but a man may even pray with
a selfish and a narrow mind, and his very prayers partake of his iniquity: no bad argument
for a prescribed form. A man that laughs well is your half-made friend, Eusebius, from the
moment you hear him. It is better to trust the ear than the eye in this matter--such a man
is a man after your own heart. After your own heart, did I say, Eusebius? Words are the ignes
fatui to thoughts, and lead to strange vagaries--of which you have here a specimen; but these
few words remind me to tell you an anecdote, in this lull of the Horæ Catullianæ, which I would
on no account keep from you. And you will see at once in it a large history in the epitome
and the very pith of a fable--such as Æsop's. But I assure you it is no fable, but the simple
plain truth; and I will vouch for it, for I had it from the month of our friend S., the truest,
honestest of men, who saw with his own eyes, and heard with his own ears, the persons and the
sayings. S. was travelling some time ago, beyond the directions of railroads, in a coach. There
were two companions--preachers as he found, self-dubb'd Reverends of some denomination or other,
besides that reverend one of their own. Their conversation, as is usual with them, was professional,
and they spoke of their brethren. In speaking of different preachers, one was mentioned, of
whom one of the speakers said emphatically--"Now that's what I call a really good man--that's
a man after my own heart--a man quite after my own heart!" The other said with rather doubtful
and hesitating confirmation, "Ye-s." "You don't seem to think so highly of him as I do," said
the first speaker. "Why," replied the doubter, "I can't say I do; you remember some time ago
he failed, and certainly upon that occasion he behaved very ill to, not to say cheated, his
creditors." "Ah!" said the first commendator again, "that is very likely--I should have expected
that of him."--Henceforth, Eusebius, whenever I hear such a commendation, I shall look out
for a map of the gentleman's heart who ventures upon this mode of expressing his admiration.
Oh! what a world we live in! This is a fact which would have been immortal, because true and
from nature, in the hands of Le Sage; and is worthy of a place in a page of a modern "Gil Blas."

And so all this digression has arisen from a laugh of the Curate's, to whom it is time to turn;
or you will think we have been but bad company to each other. I will, however, end this passage
with the remark, that a man may do a worse thing than laugh, and happy is he that can do a better.

The Curate and I, then, for the rest of the night conversed upon the affair of his, which so
unaccountably was making no little stir in the place. The Curate told me, he was quite sure
that his movements had been watched; for that only yesterday, as he was entering the gate of
his friends, the family at Ashford, he saw Miffins's boy not far behind him on a poney; and
he thinks he came out for the purpose of watching him, for he had scarcely reached the door,
when he saw the lad ride hastily back. The Curate likewise confessed to me, that he did entertain
some tender sentiments towards one of the inmates, Miss Lydia ----, that the family had lived
much abroad, and that they had a French lady's-maid, whom on one or two occasions he had certainly
seen in this township. You see the thread, Eusebius, which will draw out innumerable proofs
for such a mind as Miffins's. Taking a paper out of his pocket, he said it was put into his
hands as he was coming away, and he had not opened it. "Perhaps," said he, "it may throw some
light on the affair, as it was given me by one who is, I know, on the all-important committee."
He broke the seal, read, laughed immoderately for five minutes, and put it into my hands:--

"REV. SIR,--Wishing to do the handsome to you, and straightforward and downright honest part,
the committee inform you that they have reported your misconduct to the Lord Bishop, and I
am desired accordingly to send you a copy of their letter. By order of committee.--I am, sir,

    "JAMES JONES."

Enclosed was the following, which these wiseacres had concocted--and I have no doubt it was
their pride in the composition, and in the penmanship, which induced them to send the copy
to the Curate.

"TO MY LORD, YOUR LORDSHIP THE BISHOP.

"We the undersigned, the respectable inhabitants parishioners, approach most dutifully our
Bishop's worshipful Lordship. Hoping humbly that you will be pleased to dismiss our curate,
who, we are credibly informed, and particularly by three exemplary and virtuous ladies, they
having been cautioned against him by one who knows him well, and is a friend likewise to said
ladies, and doing all the good kindness he can. We learn with sorrow, that our curate has confessed
to unbecomingly behaviour, and that he has been seen even kissing. My Lord, our wives and daughters
are not safe--we implore your Honour's Lordship to dismiss the curate, and take them under
your protection and keeping: We are informed the curate has a foreign lady, not far from this,
whom he almost daily visits--and a Papist, which is an offence to your Lordship, and the glorious
Protestant cause, to which we are uniformly and respectfully attached, and to your worshipful
Lordship very devoted--" here follow the names, headed by Matthew Miffins.

"And what steps do you intend to take?" said I.

"None whatever," said he.

"Let it wear itself out. I won't lengthen the existence of this scandal by the smallest patronage.
I will not take it up, so it will die."

"But the Bishop?" said I.

"Is a man of sense," he replied, "and good feeling; so all is safe, in his hands."

We parted for the night.

The Curate called rather early the following morning, and we thought to have an hour over Catullus,
and went to seek our host Gratian. We found him in his library in consultation with his factotum
Jahn. He was eloquent on the salting, and not burning his weeds, on Dutch clover--"and mind,
Jahn," said he, "every orchard should have a pig-stye: where pigs are kept, there apple-trees
will thrive well, and bear well, if there be any fruit going:" and he moved his stick on the
floor from habit, as if he were rubbing his pigs' backs; and then turning to us he said,--"Why,
Jahn has been telling me strange things: Prateapace and Gadabout have gone over to the chapel--left
the church; not there last Sunday. But I saw that Brazenstare there, trying, as she sat just
before you, to put you, Mr Curate, out of countenance. Well, Jahn tells me that the Reverend
the Cow-doctor preached last evening a stirring sermon on the occasion, and was very hot upon
the impurities and idolatries of the 'Establishment.' And Jahn tells me they don't speak quite
so well of me as they should; for when he plainly told Miffins in his own shop, that he was
sure his master would not countenance any thing wrong, the impudent fellow only said, 'May
be not; but he and his master might not be of the same opinion as to what is wrong.' The rogue!
I should like to have put all his weights in the inspector's scales."

"Yes," quoth Jahn, "but I am 'most ashamed to tell your honour what Tom Potts, the exciseman,
said, who happened to be present."

"Out with it, by all means, Jahn," said our friend.

"Well then, sir, as true as you are there, he said that your honour was a very kind gentleman,
and your word was worth any other ten men's in most things; but where it might be to get a
friend out of trouble, and, for aught he knew, foe either, why then, he thought your honour
might fib a bit."

"Surely," said Gratian, "he didn't say quite that?"

"Yes," quoth Jahn, "quite that, and more; something remarkable."

"Remarkable!" said I,--"what could that be?"

"Why, something I shan't forget; and I don't think it was religious and proper," said Jahn;
and lowering his voice, and addressing me and the Curate rather than his master, he added,--"He
thought his honour had a kind heart, too kind; for that if Belzebub should come of a wet and
dark night, and knock at his honour's door, and just say in a humble voice that he was weary
and foot-sore, that his honour would be sure to take him in, give him a bed, and a stiff tumbler
of brandy and water, and send for the farrier in the morning to fresh shoe him unknowingly;
for he would make him stoop, put his claws on the ground, and throw a blanket over him, and
make the farrier believe that, out of a whim, he was only a shoeing a great big goat."

Gratian laughed at the whimsical idea of the exciseman, called him a true and good spirit-gauger;
then giving some sharp taps to his hip, his knee, and his legs with his stick, rose from his
seat, and said, "Come, Curate, you and I must take a walk amongst these people, and see what
we can do: it is most time to put a stop to this mischievous absurdity, and, I fear me, of
our own making."

Away they went, and I put up my remaining translations from Catullus, took down a book, read
awhile, and then meditated this letter to you. And now, my dear Eusebius, when you publish
it in Maga, as you did my last, folk will say--"Why, what is all this about? Horæ Catullianæ!
It is no such thing." Be it, then, I say, what you will. Do you think I am writing an essay?--no,
a letter; and I may, if I please, entitle it, as Montaigne did--"On coach horses," and still
make it what I please. It shall be a novel, if they please, for that is what they look for
now: so let the Curate be the hero,--and the heroine--but must it be a love story? Then I won't
forestall the interest, so wait to the end; and in my next, Eusebius, we will repeat Catullus
for the play, and say with the announcing actor, "to conclude with an after-piece which will
be expressed in the bills."

    My dear Eusebius, ever yours,

    AQUILIUS.

LESSONS FROM THE FAMINE.

The two great parties into which the country was divided on the subject of our commercial relations
with foreign states, maintained principles diametrically opposite on the effects to be anticipated
from the adoption of their respective systems. The Free-Traders constantly alleged, that the
great thing was to increase our importations; and that, provided this was done, government
need not disquiet themselves about our exportations. Individuals, it was said, equally with
nations, do not give their goods for nothing: if foreign produce of some sort comes in, British
produce of some sort must go out. Both parties will gain by the exchange. The inhabitants of
this country will devote their attention to those branches of industry in which we can undersell
foreign nations, and they will devote their attention to those branches of industry in which
they can undersell us. Neither party will waste their time, or their labour, upon vain attempts
to raise produce for which nature has not given them the requisite facilities. Both will buy
cheaper than they could have done if an artificial system of protection had forced the national
industry into a channel which nature did not intend, and experience does not sanction. We may
be fed by the world, but we will clothe the world. The abstraction of the precious metals is
not to be dreaded under such a system, for how are the precious metals got but in exchange
for manufactures? Their existence in this country presupposes the exit of a proportionate amount
of the produce of British industry. Nobody gives dollars, any more than corn, for nothing.
Our farmers must take to dairy and pasture cultivation to a greater extent than heretofore.
A certain number of agricultural labourers, may, it is true, be thrown out of employment by
the displacing of rural industry in making the transition from the one species of country labour
to the other; but the evil will only be temporary, and they will speedily be absorbed in the
vast extension of our manufacturing industry. High prices need never be feared under such a
system: a bad season is never universal over the world at the same time; and free-trade will
permanently let in the superfluity of those countries where food is abundant, to supply the
deficiencies of those in which, from native sources, it is scanty.

The Protectionists reasoned after an entirely different manner. The doctrines of free-trade,
they observed, perfectly just in their application to different provinces of the same empire,
are entirely misplaced if extended to different countries of the world, the more especially
if placed in similar, or nearly similar, circumstances. The state of smothered or open hostility
in which they are in general placed to each other, if their interests are at all at variance;
the necessity of sheltering infant manufacturing industry from the dangerous competition of
more advanced civilisation, or protecting old-established agricultural industry from the ruinous
inroad of rude produce from poorer states, in which it is raised cheaper because money is less
plentiful, render it indispensable that protection should exist on both sides. If it does not,
the inevitable result will be, that the cultivators of the young state will destroy the agriculture
of the old one, and the manufacturers of the old one extinguish the fabrics of the young. This
effect is necessary, and, to all appearance, will ever continue; for the experience of every
age has demonstrated that, so great is the effect of capital and civilisation applied to manufactures,
and so inconsiderable, comparatively speaking, their influence upon agriculture, that the old
state can always undersell the new one in the industry of towns, and the new one undersell
the old one in the industry of the country. The proof of this is decisive. England, by the
aid of the steam-engine, can undersell the inhabitants of Hindostan in the manufacture of muslins
from cotton growing on the banks of the Ganges; but with all the advantages of chemical manure
and tile draining, it is undersold in the supply of food by the cultivators on the Mississippi.

This being a fixed law of nature, evidently intended to check the growth of old states, and
promote the extension of mankind in the uncultivated parts of the earth, it is in vain to contend
against it. So violently does free-trade displace industry on both sides, where it is fully
established, that it is scarcely possible to conceive that two nations should at the same time
run into the same glaring mistake; and thence the common complaint that no benefit is gained,
but an infinite loss sustained, by its establishment in any one country, and that reciprocity
is on one side only. As no adequate exchange of manufactures for subsistence is thus to be
looked for, there must arise, in the old state, a constant exportation of the precious metals,
attended by frequent commercial crises, and a constant increase in the weight of direct taxation.
Should it prove otherwise, and two nations both go into the same system, it could lead to no
other result but the stoppage of the growth of civilisation in the young one, and the destruction
of national independence in the old. The former would never succeed in establishing commerce
or manufactures, from the competition of the steam-engine in its aged neighbour; the latter
would become dependent for subsistence on the plough of the young one. The rising agricultural
state would be chained for ever to the condition of the serfs in Poland, or the boors in America;
the stationary commercial state would fall into the degrading dependence of ancient Rome on
the harvests of Egypt and Lybia.

Had it not been for the calamitous issue of the last harvest, in a part of the empire, it might
have been difficult to say, to which side the weight of reason preponderated in these opposite
arguments; and probably the people of the country would have continued permanently divided
on them, according as their private interests or wishes were wound up with the buying and selling,
or raising and producing classes in society. But an external calamity has intervened;--Providence
has denied for a season, to one of the fruits of the earth, its wonted increase. The potato-rot
has appeared; and nearly the whole subsistence of the people in the south and west of Ireland,
and in the western Highlands of Scotland, has been destroyed. Between the failure in the potato
crop, and the deficiency in that of oats, at least £15,000,000 worth of the wonted agricultural
produce has disappeared in the British Islands. And the appearances which we now see around
us are solely and entirely to be ascribed to that deficiency. No one need be told what these
appearances are, or how deeply they have trenched upon the usual sources of prosperity in the
empire: they have been told again and again, in parliament, at public meetings, and in the
press, usque ad nauseam. Government has acted, if not judiciously, at least in the right spirit;
its errors have been those of information, not of intention. The monster meetings, the flagrant
ingratitude, the broken promises of the Irish Catholics, have been forgotten. England, as a
nation, has acted nobly; she has overlooked her wrongs: she saw only her fellow-subjects in
distress. £10,000,000 sterling have been voted by parliament in a single year for the relief
of Irish suffering. Magnificent subscriptions, from the throne downwards, have attested the
sympathy of the British heart with the tale of Irish and Highland suffering. But, notwithstanding
all these astonishing exertions, and notwithstanding the existence of an unprecedented demand
for labour in most parts of the country, in consequence of vast railway undertakings being
on foot, on which at least £30,000,000 a-year must be expended for three or four years to come,
distress is in many places most acute, in all severely felt. And what is very remarkable, and
may be considered, as a distinctive sign of the times, specially worthy of universal attention,
the suffering has now spread to those classes which are furthest removed from the blight of
nature, and fastened upon those interests which, according to the generally received opinion,
should have been benefited rather than injured by the calamity which has occurred.

That some millions of cultivators in the southwest of Ireland, and some hundred thousand in
the west Highlands of Scotland, should be involved, literally speaking, in the horrors of famine,
in consequence of the universal failure of the crop which constituted at once their sole object
of labour and only means of subsistence, may easily be understood. That this alarming failure
should raise prices of every sort of food to the scarcity-level in every part of the empire,
is equally intelligible; and that government, in conformity with the universal sense of the
nation, should, in such an extremity, throw open the ports to all kinds of food, and thereby
let in an unexampled amount of foreign produce to supply the failure of that usually raised
at home, is an equally intelligible consequence. It may not be considered surprising, that
starving multitudes should issue in all directions from the scene of wo in the Emerald Isle,
to seek relief in the industry or charity of Great Britain; and that all the great towns in
the west of the island should be overwhelmed with pauperism and typhus fever, in consequence
of their being the first to be reached by the destructive flood; although it was hardly to
be expected that a hundred and thirty-two thousand applications for relief were to be made
to the parochial authorities of Liverpool in a single week; and that they returned thanks to
Heaven when the influx of Irish paupers was reduced to two thousand a-week! But the remarkable
thing, and the thing which the commercial classes certainly did not expect, is this:--The calamity
has now reached themselves, although the hand of Providence has only stricken the producing
agricultural classes. Trade never was lower, monied distress never more severe, markets of
all sorts never were more rapidly DECLINING, than during a period when IMPORTATIONS of all
sorts have been MOST RAPIDLY INCREASING. Nearly all the manufactories in Lancashire and Lanarkshire
are put on short time; the public funds and stocks of all sorts are falling; the rate of bankers'
advances in Scotland is raised to six per cent;[7] seven per cent is charged in Liverpool and
Glasgow on railway advances, and permanent loans are taken on railway debentures by the most
experienced persons for three years at five per cent; the Bank of England has raised its discounts;
our exports are rapidly declining; and all at a time, when the importation of all sorts of
rude produce is on an unprecedented scale of magnitude, and the warehouses of Liverpool and
Glasgow are literally bursting with the prodigious mass of grain stored in them from all parts
of the world!

Fortunately, statistical documents exist, derived from official sources, which demonstrate
beyond the possibility of doubt the coexistence of this vast increase in the amount of subsistence
imported, and vast diminution in the amount of manufactures raised or exported in all parts
of the British empire. A paper has lately been presented to parliament, showing the amount
of imports, exports, and shipping during the year 1846, compared with 1845; from which this
important and luminous fact is decisively established, how hard soever it may be to comprehend
on the part of a large and influential portion of our politicians. From it it appears that
the amount of subsistence imported in 1846 was six times greater than in 1845, although free-trade
only commenced in the middle of the former year. It had reached the unparalleled amount in
the latter year, of grain or flour, equal to five millions and a half quarters of grain. The
tonnage inwards had turned five millions of tons; the custom-house duties, notwithstanding
the numerous reductions of duties on imported articles, had risen £700,000 above the preceding
year, and still kept above £22.000,000 sterling. Here, then, were all the sources and marks
of prosperity, so far as they depended on importations, in a state of unexampled vigour and
efficiency. Was this attended, as we were constantly told it would be, by a corresponding impulse
given to our fabrics? Has the increased activity of our manufacturing cities compensated for
the sterility of so large a part of our fields? The fact is just the reverse. Though free-trade
has only been in operation for the last six months of 1846, they were signalised by a universal
decline in all the principal articles of our exportation; and, by the unanimous voice of all
practical men, trade, so far as exports or production is concerned, never was in a more depressed
state than when, so far as imports are concerned, it had attained an unprecedented extension.

Never was a truer observation than is made by the Free-Traders, when they assert that goods
will not be sent into a nation for nothing; and that, if our imports increase, something that
goes out must have received a proportional augmentation. They forget only one circumstance,
which, however, is of some little consequence, namely, that two things may go out, goods or
SPECIE. We have melancholy proof, in the present state of the money market, that the latter
occurrence has taken place to an inconvenient and distressing extent, and that that is the
direct cause of the extravagant rate of interest charged on bankers' advances, and the general
scarcity of money felt throughout the country. That the capital of the country is not only
sufficient, but abundant, is decisively proved by the fact that, notwithstanding the vast extent
of the railway and other undertakings of a public character going on both in Great Britain
and Ireland, government has borrowed the loan of £8,000,000 for the relief of Ireland at £3,
7s. 6d. per cent. The three per cents are about 90, yielding about the same return for money.
But is currency equally abundant? So far from it, the bankers are charging six, and the persons
making advances on railway concerns seven per cent. The holder of capital is glad if he can
get three and a half per cent; but the holder of currency will not let his notes or sovereigns
out of his hand for less than six or seven per cent. Can there be a more convincing proof that
the currency of the country has been unduly drained away, and that the present monetary system,
which forbids any extension of it in paper when the specie is abstracted, is based on a wrong
foundation? Nor is it surprising that the currency should be straitened when it is notorious
that every packet which goes out to America takes out vast sums to that continent to pay for
the immense quantities of grain which are brought in. That drain only began to be felt in a
serious manner within the last two months, because the great shipments from America took place
in November and December last, when the failure of the potato crop in this country was fully
ascertained; and consequently, the payments made in bills at three months, required to be made
in February and March. And when it is recollected that the quantity of grain imported in seven
months only--viz. from 5th July 1846, to 5th February 1847--exceeded six millions of quarters,
at the very time that all our exports were diminishing; it may be imagined how prodigious must
have been the drain upon the metallic resources of the country to make up the balance.[8]

Sorely perplexed with results so diametrically opposite to all their doctrines as to an increase
of importation being necessarily attended with a proportionate increase of exportation, and
of all apprehension of an undue pressure thence arising on the money market being chimerical,
the Free-Traders lay it all upon the famine at home or abroad. The potato-rot, it is said,
has concealed the effects of free-trade: distress in foreign nations has disabled them to purchase
our manufactures in return for their rude produce; the increase of British importation has
come too soon to operate as yet on their purchase of our manufactures. Here again the facts
come decisively to disprove the theoretical anticipations. So far has the increase of our importations
been from being sudden, and come last year for the first time on foreign nations, it has been
remarkably gradual, and has gone on for years, having received only a great impulse in the
articles on which the duty was lessened or removed last summer. Our general imports have steadily
advanced for the last three years; and in particular articles the same progress has been conspicuous.[9]
How, then, has it happened that this general, continued, and steady increase of imports has
issued only in a diminution to an alarming extent of exports? And observe, the countries from
which we have imported so largely last year of grain and articles of subsistence, have not
only not suffered by the scarcity general on the Continent, but have profited immensely by
it. America has been blessed with a splendid crop of every species of grain; and, in consequence
of the famine in Ireland and severe scarcity in France, prices of grain have risen to triple
their former amount in the United States. It has risen so much in the southern states of Russia,
that the Emperor of Russia has prohibited the farther exportation of it from the Black Sea.
But all these floods of wealth flowing into the great grain states from the failure of the
crops in France and Ireland, have been unavailing to produce any increased activity in our
manufactures. On the contrary, they are all declining; and our immense importations of food
are almost all paid for in direct exportations of the precious metals.

In truth, the general depression of manufactures in all the chief seats of our fabrics is so
serious, that it is evidently owing to a much more general and stringent cause than the decline,
considerable as it is, in our exports. It is not a decrease of two millions out of fifty-three
millions--in other words, of less than a five-and-twentieth part--which will explain the general
putting of mills in Lancashire and Lanarkshire on short time, the fall in the value of all
kinds of stock and general decline in the vent for all kinds of manufactured produce. It is
in the home markets that the real and blighting deficiency is experienced. And what is the
cause of this decline in the home market? The Free-Traders are the first to tell us what has
done it. It is the famine in Ireland. The total manufactured produce of the island is certainly
not under £200,000,000[10] annually, of which somewhat above £51,000,000 is for the foreign
markets of the world. What is a deficiency of £2,000,000 in such a mass? If that had been the
only decline that had taken place, it would have been scarcely perceptible, and would have
left no visible effects on our commercial activity or general prosperity. It is clear that
the great falling off must have been in the home market. Nor is it difficult to see how this
has happened. Fifteen millions' worth of agricultural produce has disappeared; prices of wheat
have risen in consequence to 80s. a-quarter, and oats in a still higher proportion; and an
alarming drain upon the metallic resources of the country taken place. It is this which has
paralysed the manufactures and depressed the commerce of the country. And when it is recollected
that the home market now consumes little short of £150,000,000 a-year, it may easily be conceived
what a serious check to industry a diminution to the amount of even an eighth or a tenth of
the usual domestic purchases must occasion.

The Free-Traders say, that the famine in Ireland has concealed the effects of the adoption
of their system of policy; and that all the distress and suffering which has ensued is to be
ascribed to that cause. From the observations now made, however, it is apparent that the effect
of the famine has been, not to conceal the effects of free-trade, but to accelerate them. For
what has the famine done? It has simply caused fifteen millions' worth of domestic agricultural
produce to be exchanged for fifteen millions' worth of foreign agricultural produce. The potato
crop, which has perished in Ireland, is estimated at fifteen millions' worth; and, supposing
that statement is a little exaggerated, it is probable that, taking into account the simultaneous
failure in the crop of oats, both there and in Great Britain, the total amount of home agricultural
produce that is deficient may amount to that value. But foreign agricultural produce, to an
equal or greater amount, has been imported. Six millions of quarters, between grain of all
sorts and flour, have been entered for home consumption in seven months preceding 5th February
1847. Taking these quarters, on an average, as worth fifty shillings to the consumer--which
is certainly no extravagant estimate, seeing wheat is up at seventy-nine shillings--we shall
have, then, six millions of quarters, worth fifteen millions sterling. The home agricultural
produce that has failed is just equal in value to the foreign agricultural produce that has
been imported. The distress that prevails, therefore, is not owing to any deficiency of food
for man or animals in the United Kingdom, for as much has come in, of foreign produce, as has
disappeared of domestic. It is entirely to be ascribed to the supplanting, in the national
subsistence, of a large part of home produce by an equally large part of foreign produce. And
in the social, commercial, and national effects which we see around us, we may discern, as
in a mirror, not merely the probable but certain effects of such a substitution if perpetuated
to future times.

This view of the subject is of such vast importance that we deem it impossible to impress it
too strongly on our readers. We have been always told that the great thing is to secure a great
importation; that such a thing must necessarily lead to a corresponding increase of exportation;--that
all apprehension about the imports being paid in gold, and not in manufactures, are chimerical;--that
the sooner the inferior lands in the British islands go out of cultivation the better;--that
ample food for the inhabitants will be obtained from foreign states; and that the agriculturists
thrown out of employment by the change will be rapidly absorbed, and more profitably employed
in sustaining our extended manufactures. Well, the thing has been done, and the desired consummation
has taken place, from an extraneous cause, even more rapidly than was anticipated. The Free-Traders
contemplated the substitution of foreign for British agricultural produce to the extent of
fifteen or twenty millions as a most desirable result; but they only lamented it could not
be looked for for three or four years. It would take that time to beat down the British farmer;
to convince the cultivators of inferior lands of the folly of attempting a competition with
the great grain districts of the Continent. Providence has done the thing at once. We have
got on at railway speed to the blessings of the new system. Free-trade was to lead to the much-desired
substitution of six million quarters of home for six million quarters of foreign grain in three
years. But the potato-rot has done it in one. The free-trade rot could not have done it nearly
so expeditiously, but it would have done it as effectually. It is a total mistake, therefore,
to represent the famine in Ireland and the West of Scotland, as an external calamity which
has concealed the natural effects of free-trade. It has only brought them to light at once.

Had British agriculture, instead of being stricken with sterility by the hand of Providence,
in the poorest and worst cultivated part of the two islands, been suffered gradually to waste
away, under the effects of a great and increasing foreign importation in all parts of the empire,
the destruction of home produce would have been equally extensive, but it would have been more
general. It would have risen to as great an amount, but it would not have been so painfully
concentrated in particular districts. Hundreds would not have been dying of famine in Skibbereen;
seed-corn would not have been awanting in Skye and Mull; cultivation would not have been abandoned
in Tipperary; but the cessation of agricultural produce over the whole empire would have been
quite as great. Low prices would have done the business as effectually, though not quite so
speedily, as the pestilence which has smitten the potato-field. Whoever casts his eye on the
table of prices given below[11] for twenty years in London and Dantzic, must at once see that,
under a free-trade system, as large an importation of foreign produce, and as extensive a contraction
of home, as has taken place this year is to be permanently looked for. The exportation and
return of the precious metals, and contraction of credit now felt as so distressing, may be
expected to be permanent. Providence has given us a warning of the effects of our policy, before
they have become irreparable. We have only to suppose the present state of commerce and manufactures
lasting, and we have a clear vision of the blessings of free-trade.

Nor is there any difficulty in understanding how it happens that the substitution of a large
portion of foreign, for an equal amount of home-grown produce, occasions such disastrous effects,
and in particular proves so injurious to the commercial classes, who in the first instance
generally suppose they are to be benefited by the change. If two or three millions of rural
labourers in the poorest and worst cultivated districts of the island, are thrown out of employment,
either by a failure in the vegetable on which alone, in their rude state, they can employ their
labour, or by the gradual substitution of foreign for home produce in the supply of food for
the people, it is a poor compensation to them to say that an equal amount of foreign grain
has been brought into the commercial emporiums of the empire--that if they will leave Skibbereen
or Skye, and come to Liverpool or Glasgow, they will find warehouses amply stored with grain,
which at the highest current prices they will obtain to any extent they desire. The plain answer
is, that they are starving; that their employment as well as subsistence is gone; that they
have neither the means of transport, nor any money to buy grain when they reach the neighbourhood
of the bursting warehouses. But then they will be absorbed in the great manufacturing districts,
where their labour will be more profitable to themselves and others, than in their native wilds!
Yes, there is a process of absorption goes on, on the occurrence of such a crisis; but it is
not the absorption of labour by capital, but of capital by pauperism. Floods of starving destitutes
inundate every steam-boat, harbour, and road, on the route to the scene of wo; and while the
interior of the warehouses in the great commercial cities are groaning beneath the weight of
foreign grain, the streets in their vicinity are thronged by starving multitudes, who spread
typhus fever wherever they go, and fall as a permanent burden on the poor-rates of the yet
solvent portions of the community.

And the effect of this importation of foreign grain, from whatever cause it arises, necessarily
is to prevent this absorption of rural pauperism by manufacturing capital, to which the Free-traders
so confidently look for the adjustment of society after the change has been made. The nations
who supply us with grain do not want our manufactures. They will not buy them. What they want,
is our money. They have not, and will not have, the artificial wants requisite for the general
purchase of manufactures for a century to come. Generations must go to their graves during
the transition from rustic content to civilised wants. America has sent us some millions of
quarters of grain this year, but there is no increase in her orders for our manufactures. On
the contrary, they are diminishing. Even the Free Trade Journals now admit this; constrained
by the evidence of their senses to admit the entire failure of all their predictions.[12] The
reason is evident. They want our money, and our money they will have; and if they find our
manufactures are beginning to flow in, in enlarged quantities, in consequence of our purchase
of their grain, they will soon stop the influx by a tariff. This is what we did, when situated
as they are--it is what all mankind will, and must do, in similar circumstances. It was distinctly
perceived and foretold by the Protectionists that this effect would follow from free-trade,
and that, unless something was done to enlarge the currency to meet it, a commercial crisis
would ensue. These words published a year ago might pass for the history of the time in which
we now live:--"Under the proposed reduced duties during the next three years, and trifling
duty after that period on all sorts of grain, there can be no doubt that a very great impulse
will be given to the corn-trade. It being now ascertained, by a comparison of the prices during
the last twenty years, that there is annually a difference of from twenty to thirty shillings
a-quarter between the price that wheat bears in the British islands and at the shores of the
Baltic, while the cost of importation is only five or six shillings a-quarter, there can be
no question that the opening of the ports will occasion a very large importation of foreign
grain. It may reasonably be expected that, in the space of a few years, the quantity imported
will amount to four or five millions of quarters annually, for which the price paid by the
importers cannot be supposed to be less, on the most moderate calculation, than seven or eight
millions sterling. The experience of the year 1839 sufficiently tells us what will be the effect
of such an importation of grain, paid for, as it must be, for the most part in specie, upon
the general monetary concerns and commercial prosperity of the empire. It is well known that
it was this condition of things which produced the commercial crisis in this country, led to
three years of unprecedented suffering in the manufacturing districts, and, as is affirmed,
destroyed property in the manufacturing districts of Lancashire, to the amount of £40,000,000."[13]

Lastly, the famine has taught the empire an important lesson as to Irish Repeal. For many years
past, that country has been convulsed, and the empire harassed by the loud and threatening
demand for the Repeal of the Union, and the incessant outcry that the Irish people are perfectly
equal to the duties of self-government, and that all their distresses have been owing to the
oppression of the Saxon. The wind of adversity has blown, and where are these menaces now?
Had Providence punished them by granting their prayer--had England cut the rope, as Mr Roebuck
said, and let them go, where would Ireland have been at this moment? Drifting away on the ocean
of starvation. Let this teach them their dependence upon their neighbours, and let another
fact open their eyes to what those neighbours are. England has replied to the senseless clamour,
the disgraceful ingratitude, by voting ten millions sterling in a single year to relieve the
distresses which the heedlessness and indolence of the Irish had brought upon themselves. We
say advisedly, brought upon themselves. For, mark-worthy circumstance! the destruction of the
potato crop has been just as complete, and the food of the people has been just as entirely
swept away in the West Highlands of Scotland, as in Ireland, but there has been no grant of
public money to Scotland. The cruel Anglo-Saxons have given IT ALL to the discontented, untaxed
Gael in the Emerald isle.

Printed by William Blackwood & Sons, Edinburgh.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] Viz. 5-1/2 per cent on all advances on cash or current accounts, and 1/2 per cent commission
on all sums overdrawn.

[8] Table showing the quantity of grain, including flour and meal, entered for home consumption,
from 5th July 1846, to 5th February 1847, from the London Gazette official returns:--

Quarters of grain (including flour and meal) entered for         qrs.
  home consumption, in the months from 5th July to 5th
  January as reported, 1st February,                        5,148,449
Quantity duty paid in month ending 5th Feb.        539,418
  Do. do. flour and meal, 427,036 cwts.            142,345
                                                       681,763

Quantity duty paid up to 5th January,                       5,830,212

   In bond, 5th February,                           68,939
     Do. do. flour and meal, 318,240 cwts.         106,080
                                                       175,019

   Quantity in qrs. of duty paid and presently in bond,}    6,005,231
                 from month ending 5th July to 5th Feb.}    

[9]
                                       1844.          1845.           1846.
Imports,    total official value,    £75,441,555   £85,281,958
Sugar, cwts.       "                   4,139,983     4,880,780    5,231,818
Tea, lbs.          "                  41,369,351    44,195,321   46,728,208
Coffee, lbs.       "                  31,391,297    34,318,121   36,781,391
Butter, cwts.      "                     180,965       240,118      255,130
Cheese, cwts.      "                     212,286       258,246      327,490
Live animals, No.  "                       8,007        34,426      140,752
Brandy,            "                   1,033,650     1,058,777    1,515,954
Geneva,            "                      14,937        15,536       40,266
Rum,               "                   2,198,870     2,469,485    2,683,515

[10] In 1840, the total amount was estimated at £180,000,000, of which £47,000,000, at that
period, was for exportation, and £133,000,000 for the home market. As this £47,000,000 had
swelled, in 1846, to £53,000,000, it is reasonable to suppose that those for the home market
had undergone a similar increase, and are now about £200,000 annually.--See Speckman's Stat.
Tables for 1842, p. 45.

[11]

Table of Average Prices of Wheat in Prussia and in England, from 1816 to 1837.

    |Average prices  |Average prices|Average   |Difference     |Foreign Wheat |
    |in Prussia      |in Brandenburg|prices per|between English|and Flour     |
    |Proper including|and Pomerania |London    |Prices and Mean|consumed in   |
    |Dantzig and     |              |Gazette.  |of Prussian    |Great Britain.|
    |Konigsburg.     |              |          |Prices.        |              |
----+----------------+--------------+----------+---------------+--------------+
    |     s. d.      |     s. d.    |   s. d.  |    s. d.      | Qrs.         |
1816|     36 9       |     44 6     |   76 2   |    35 6       |   225,263    |
1817|     52 7       |     60 9     |   94 0   |    37 8       | 1,020,949    |
1818|     49 6       |     53 5     |   83 8   |    32 2       | 1,593,518    |
1819|     34 3       |     37 6     |   72 3   |    36 4       |   122,133    |
1820|     27 3       |     30 0     |   65 10  |    37 2       |    34,274    |
1821|     25 6       |     28 9     |   54 5   |    27 3       |         2    |
1822|     26 0       |     26 8     |   43 3   |    16 11      |    ----      |
1823|     24 2       |     26 9     |   51 9   |    26 5       |    12,137    |
1824|     18 6       |     20 0     |   62 0   |    43 3       |    15,777    |
1825|     17 3       |     17 9     |   66 6   |    49 0       |   525,231    |
1826|     18 6       |     21 0     |   56 11  |    37 2       |   315,892    |
1827|     22 3       |     25 9     |   56 9   |    32 9       |   572,733    |
1828|     27 2       |     28 9     |   60 5   |    32 5       |   842,050    |
1829|     32 3       |     35 0     |   66 3   |    32 7       | 1,364,220    |
1830|     29 6       |     34 0     |   64 3   |    32 6       | 1,701,885    |
1831|     39 6       |     39 0     |   66 4   |    27 1       | 1,491,631    |
1832|     34 0       |     33 6     |   58 8   |    24 11      |   325,435    |
1833|     25 0       |     23 6     |   52 11  |    28 8       |    82,346    |
1834|     23 9       |     23 0     |   46 2   |    21 10      |    64,653    |
1835|     23 0       |     24 0     |   39 4   |    15 10      |    28,483    |
1836|     21 0       |     23 0     |   48 6   |    26 6       |    30,046    |
1837|     22 6       |     26 0     |   56 10  |    32 7       |   244,085    |

[12] "The excessive consumption of these and other articles has, however, only led to a drain
of bullion to the extent of three millions and a half, while, upon a moderate computation,
they would appear to call for three times that amount. This is to be accounted for by two facts--The
first being that we have not imported, and paid for as much as we have consumed, since, conjointly
with our importations, we have been steadily eating up former reserves, so that our stock of
all kinds--coffee, sugar, rice, &c., are low; and, next, because we have diminished our importations
of raw material in a remarkable degree, and hence, while paying for provisions, have lessened
our usual payments on this score. Here, too, in like manner, we have been drawing upon our
reserves. Our manufactures have been carried on with hemp, flax, and cotton, which had been
paid for in former years, and we have left ourselves at the present moment short of all these
articles, the stock of the latter alone, on the 1st of January last, as compared with the preceding
year, being 545,790 against 1,060,560 bales. We are not only poorer, therefore, by all the
bullion we have lost, but by all the stock we have thus consumed.

"This process cannot go on any longer. We have now no accumulations to eat into, and must,
consequently, pay for what we use. Concurrently, therefore, with our importations of corn and
other provisions, (which are now going on at a much greater rate, and at much higher prices
than in 1846,) and just in proportion as they beget a demand for our manufactures, we must
have importations of raw material. Large purchases of hemp and flax are alleged to have been
made in the north of Europe, for spring shipment, and cotton from the United States is only
delayed by the want of ships. Wool from Spain, and the Mediterranean, saltpetre, oil-seeds,
&c., from India, and a host of minor articles, have also been kept back by the same cause,
and will pour in upon us to make up our deficiencies directly any relaxation shall take place
(if such could be foreseen) of the universal influx of grain. In this way, just as one cause
of demand diminishes the other will increase, and the balance will be kept up against us for
a period to which at present it is impossible to fix a limit.

"We thus see that no call that can possibly arise for our manufactures can have the effect
of preventing a continuous drain of bullion. That a large trade will occur no one can doubt,
but at present it is scarcely even in prospect. From India and China each account comes less
favourable than before; from Russia we are told that 'no great demand can be expected for British
goods under the present high duties' in that country; while even from the United States, the
point from whence relief will most rapidly come, we hear of a shrewd conviction that we are
approaching a period of low prices, and that, consequently, for the present 'the less they
order from us the better.'"--Times, March 10, 1847.

[13] England in 1815 and 1845, pp. v-vii. Preface to third edition, published in June 1846.