  To it feet and fists they wint,
  As though foighting agin rint,
    Says the Sassenach, "By golly, I'm perplext;
  For when pathriots, don't ye see,
  Foight like schoolboys on a spree,
    Why, ye niver know what they'll be up to next.
  There seems little to be said;
  Let each break the other's head:
    I'll mix no more in pathriot affairs.
  Ere that paper shall appear,
  Many an Oirish head and ear
    Must be 'closed for alterations and repairs.'"

  Chorus.--Ye may talk of J. McCARTHY, &c.

  "If to help poor PAT you'd try,
  Or would raise the Home Rule cry,
    And change the Constitution--just for fun;
  There's one thing ye've got to do,--
  Just prepare for Phillaloo,
    For the PATS will raise it--every mother's son.
  It may be very fine,
  PAT's no enemy of mine,
    But, as I think, ye'll aisily suppose,
  Whatever line we take
  Peace is mighty hard to make,
    When 'United Ireland' punches its own nose!"

    Chorus.

    Ye may talk about McCARTHY,
    As a pathriot pure and hearthy,
    For to lead the Home-Rule Parthy;
      And to keep the Liberals thrue.
    But it's anything but aisy
    (Ask DICK POWER and Misther DEASY)
          To rule the Pats
          (Those fighting cats)
      Widout a Phillaloo!

       *       *       *       *       *

A STUDY FROM THE LIFE.

(PROPHETICALLY COMMUNICATED BY AN INTERVIEWER OF THE FUTURE.)

Having to describe the person and abode of the Poet PODGERS, I cannot do better than jot down
in my note-book what I know about those objects on my road to the abode of genius--otherwise,
126, Bolingbroke Square, South Belgravia. That useful work, Men of the Time, tells me that
the Poet was educated at Westminster and Christ Church--facts that in themselves suggest a
column of copy about Football at Vincent Square, the mysteries of Seniors, Juniors, and Second
Election, and the glories and humours of Tom's Quad. Not much trouble about that. So far, plain
sailing. Bolingbroke Square, too, helps one along. Historical reminiscences, Pimlico in time
of Romans, ditto Normans, ditto when ELIZABETH was Queen. All this can be worked up comfortably
and conveniently in the Reading Room of the British Museum. Then the PODGERS' family history
should give a good third. Father made a fortune in blacking, so daresay he recollects his grandfather.
No doubt latter settled in London with the employment of junior office-sweeper, and the capital
of an eleemosynary half-crown. Need not trouble about the Heraldic Visitations, or the coat
and crest. Keep those items for an interview characterised more by "blood" than "brains." Suppose
he has received presentation copies of works of poetical rivals. This will give an opportunity
for introducing contemporary biographical sketches, varying from three lines to half a column.
Know his house, too--once occupied by a foreign fiddler, next a Cabinet Minister, lastly, a
successful artist, hints (if required) for scenes on the Continent, in Parliament, and the
Royal Academy. Wife and children. Domestic scene--good for two-thirds. Wife playing piano as
the children spin their tops, or gambol with Collie dog. There now, I think I have got enough
material for the present. And here we are at Bolingbroke Square, South Kensington.

What's this! PODGERS' servant says PODGERS declines to see literary gents! He won't be interviewed!

Won't he! With my materials, soon arrange about that! After all, seeing him was only an empty form!

Tell Cabman to drive back to my house--Butterfly Gardens. He doesn't know it! On second thoughts,
he says he supposes I mean "the place that used to be called Grub Street?" Yes, I do!

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRISTMAS AND CLEOPATRA.

