I studied Andy's head. Normally it looks as though he had been mopping out a rusty drain with
it. It was quite normal, every hair on end and pointing in a different direction.

"Well, what of Florazora?" I asked. "It's evident she has never entered into your life, at
any rate."

"That's all you know about it," said Andy. "They're sitting up for me with blunderbusses and
brickbats at home, and 'Florazora' is the cause."

"But how?" I asked.

"Ye'll discover if ye'll let me speak for a half a minute. I may admit to you I was very sweet
on a little girl that was staying with the MacManuses a while back, so I bought a bottle of
that stuff to keep my hair down while I was pitching her the yarn. I cornered the lass alone
in the MacManus' drawing-room, went down on my knees and threw off a dandy proposal I had learnt
by heart out of a book. The girl curled about all over the sofa with emotion, and for a bit
I thought my eloquence was doing it. Then I perceived she was near shaken to pieces with laughter.
Couldn't think why till I happened to catch sight of myself in a mirror and saw that my darned
old hair had come unstuck again and was bobbing up all over my head, not singly as it is now,
but a cockatoo tuft at a time, thanks to 'Florazora.' I rose up off the MacManus carpet and
ran all the way home."

"Still I don't see--" I began.

"Ye never will if ye don't give me a chance to tell ye," said Andy.

"Do ye remember that greasy divil Peter Flynn that owns a draper's shop in Ballinknock main
street? A fat man he is with the flowing locks of a stump orator, given to fancy waistcoats
and a frock-coat--very dressy. Ye'd see him standing at the shop-door on fair-days, bobbing
to the women and how-dy-doin' the country boys the way he'd tout a vote or two, he being the
leading Sinn Fein organiser down our way now. Anyhow he and his raparees got after me and the
hunt, on account of me evicting a tenant that hadn't paid a penny of rent for seven years and
didn't ever intend to. They hinted to the decent poor farmers round about that there'd be ricks
fired and cows ripped if they allowed me to hunt their lands, so I got stopped everywhere.
I had land enough of my own to carry on with, so I hunted there till the foxes and hares gave
out, which they precious soon did, seeing that half the neighbourhood was out shooting, trapping,
poisoning and lurching them.

"I bought a stag from a feller in Limerick and chased that for a bit; then on a 'tween day,
when I was away and the deer out grazing in the demesne, somebody slipped a brace of Mauser
bullets into it, and that form of diversion was likewise at an end. As far as I could see an
animal wouldn't stand a ten minutes' chance in my country unless it were an armadillo.

"I wrote to the War Office, asking them could they kindly oblige me with the loan of a lively
little tank for pursuing purposes, but got no answer. I guess WINSTON had a liver on him that
morning. So there was nothing for it but to give up the hounds. I went and broke the sad news
to Patsey Mike, who was mixing stirabout at the time. 'Oh, God save us, don't be doing that,
Sor,' says he. 'Hoult hard a day or so and I'll be afther findin' some little object to hunt,
that them dirthy blagyards won't shoot at all.'

"Two mornings later he turned up, dragging something in an oat-sack.

"I have it here that'll course out before the houn's like a shootin'-star,' says he.

"'What is it?' says I.

"The rogue put his hand in the sack and drew out a yellow mongrel dog.

"'Where did ye get that?' says I.

"'Shure didn't I borry it?' says he.

"'And who did ye borrow it from?' says I.

"'From Misther Flynn, no less,' says he. ''Tis his little foxey pet dog.'

"'Does Mr. Flynn know you borrowed it from him?' says I.

"'Begob that he does not,' says he. 'Mr. Flynn is beyond in Youghal and I borryed it in the
dark dead of night over the yard wall. Faith, he'll run home like a flick of lightning, he's
that scared, the same dog.'

"'Ye did well,' said I; 'but will the hounds chase him?'

"'That they will, Sor. What with foxes one day, stags the next and hares the next, there's
sorra a born thing they wouldn't hunt given there's smell enough in it,' says the lad. 'Have
ye the laste little trace of aniseed in the house that you could drench the crature with the
way the houn's would folly him?'

"Divil a drop of aniseed or anything else had I on the place, and I stood there scratching
my ear with my crop wondering what to do, when suddenly I remembered that relic of my courting
days, 'Florazora.' 'I have it,' I said; 'I've got something that'll fix that hare all right.'

"I fetched the bottle and rubbed a handful or so of the stuff well into Mr. Flynn's pet dog
and let him go with a flip of my whip lash to help him on his way. He lit out for home as though
the devil had kicked him, yelling blue murder and laying a trail of flowers and honey across
the country so thick you could pretty nigh eat it. I gave him a fair start, then laid the hounds
on and we had a five-mile point, going like a steeplechase all the way. Flynn lives in a lonely
house about half a mile out of Ballinknock, and the 'bag-man' got home to it and through the
wee dog-hole into the yard with just six inches to spare.

"Patsey went over the wall and borrowed the dog three times after that. It was no trouble at
all. Flynn was still away in Youghal, and his housekeeper was that deaf Gabriel would have
to announce the Crack of Doom to her on his fingers. But it was too good to last. On the fourth
day we were nearing Flynn's house, the dog leading the pack by not fifty yards, when I saw
him cut across a field to the left, while the hounds tumbled into a little boreen that runs
up from the railway-station and went streaking down it singing out as if they were on a breast-high
scent and in view.

"'Begob,' says I to Patsey, 'they've changed; they're running a hare, I believe.'

"'Tis a hare in a frock-coat then, Sor,' says he, pointing with his whip.

"Sure enough it was a man they were after. I saw him then galloping down the boreen for dear
life, coat-tails flying, hair streaming, terror in his big white face. Flynn! I did my damdest,
but I had no hope of stopping them, not in that little lane. When I came out on the high-road
I found what was left of the politician half-way up a telegraph post, like a treed cat, screeching
and scrambling and calling on the Saints, with old Actress swinging by her teeth to the tails
of his shirt, Cruiskeen ripping the trousers off him a leg at a time, and the rest of the pack
leaping under him like the surf of the sea.

"I nearly rolled off my mare with laughter, though well I knew the screeching scarecrow up
the pole would have me drawn and quartered for that day's work. I whipped the hounds off in
the end, took 'em by road to Fermoy that same evening and boxed 'em to my brother-in-law in
Carlow. 'Twas fortunate I did, for my kennels were burnt to the ground that night."

Andy sighed, drained his glass and gazed regretfully at the bottom.

"H-m, ye-es, but there's still a point I would like cleared up," said I. "What made the pack
change and chase Flynn?"

"Appears he was strongly addicted to 'Florazora' too," said Andy.

PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

From the account of a farewell meeting in honour of a retiring Minister:--

    "It was altogether a notable gathering, and perhaps the congregational
    repetition of the General Thanksgiving at the opening of the meeting
    gave the keynote to the whole proceedings."--Christian World.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "An immediate advance of 10s. a week for adult workers and 5s. for
    juniors is being made to employers by the National Transport Workers'
    Federation."--Evening Paper.

We have always contended that the motto "For others" is the guiding principle of Labour.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "There are Germans still in the Baltic Provinces--which is full of
    uuuuuuuuuuuuuu eaoi aoa."--Daily Paper.

Very suspicious.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LABOUR AND ART;

OR, THE CONVERSION OF BINKS.

  You have stood at some time, I suppose, with a sense of disaster
    And gazed at a picture resembling an egg on a mat,
  Or a sideslip of squares in the mode of a Pimlico master?--
    Well, Binks's "Rebellion" and "Afternoon Tea in my Flat"
              Were extremely like that.

  He was nuts upon Beauty was Binks, and from boyhood acquainted
    With Art, and so bound to her side with such delicate links
  That I doubt if the soul of her, much as we've written and painted,
    Had ever been fathomed (for is she not strange as the Sphinx?)
              Till she got to know Binks.

  He had hundreds of phases, and all of them highly sensational,
    A Cubist unbending, a Vorticist equally stout;
  Scorned one thing, he said, and one only, the Representational,
    Meaning, I take it, a school where there isn't much doubt
              What the whole thing's about.

  And at times he would say, as I stared at his riotous scrimmages
    And asked what on earth was the meaning, "You must have regard
  To the mind of the artist, for Art is a matter of images,"
    And it seemed that he thought all these things when he gazed very hard
              At a tub in a yard.

  But at times he would tell me that Art was a mere interweaving
    Of hues and designs; he had done what he could to expel
  All thoughts and all visual objects, for these were deceiving,
    And I told him, so far as an ignorant layman could tell,
              He had done that quite well.

  But I think that of all of his phases the last was most funny;
    He was vestured in white when I met him by chance in the town;
  He had shaved off his beard, his beard, like Apollo's, of honey;
    His hair was quite short, he had lost his habitual frown,
              He was looking quite brown.

  He told me he never exhibited now in a gallery;
    Commissions were filling his time and engaging his heart;
  What was more, he observed, he was making a regular salary,
    So I asked him to tell me the worst and explain from the start
              What had happened to Art.

  "I have banished Design," he informed me, "and thoughts are all duller
    Than Beauty, and Beauty is Art; but no critic can grouse
  At the notion of Absolute Pure Indivisible Colour
    As calm as Eternity, smooth as omnipotent nous--
              I am painting a house."

  EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BEST OF THINGS.

"The New Poor?" said Holder, like myself, one of them. "Nonsense. There are none. There are
people who will not use their imaginations, of course. They are poor, but not newly so. This
so-called new poverty doesn't touch me. True, the money I make will not go so far as it used
to, but my imagination goes very much farther. I have trained it, encouraged it, my wife's
and boy's too. We have cast off the absurd restraints imposed by the law of probability. In
the old days, when I used to think, say, of motors, I was invariably badgered by the spectre
of improbability. I used to think of a four-hundred-pound car, or perhaps, in a daring moment,
my thoughts would creep timidly, like mice out into a still kitchen, on to the six-hundred-
pound plane, only to scurry back to the lower plane almost instantly. Now I've thrown all that
overboard. Rubbish! When I think of motors I think in terms of Rolls-Royces. Why think cheaply?
It's a poor imagination that won't run to a six-cylinder car at least. Strictly, I shall never
own a real motor scooter. What of it? In my mind I use Rolls-Royces. We've rather worked the
thing up at home. Come and dine with us and see for yourself."

We had sausages and mashed potatoes, with water. And I may say that never have I enjoyed a
meal more. You see, Holder kept on telling us all the time about the famous dinner which now,
owing to the War, we should never really eat, but which we were at perfect liberty to imagine
we were eating. I am sorry you were not there. The hors d'oeuvres! Holder describes hors d'oeuvres
better than any man I know. Oh, masterly, the colour ... RUSKIN, perhaps. Anyhow, he carried
us quite away.

His wife chose oysters. His description of oysters, instantly furnished, was a little gem--a
pearl, silver-grey, so much so that I too chose oysters. His little boy, Dickie, chose caviare;
but he really did not care for it. He bit on a piece of button in his sausage, poor child.
That was why he did not appreciate the caviare. But Holder distracted his mind with some very
remarkable mushroom soup--potage de champignons--a brilliant word-sketch. We all chose it.

For fish there was saus--pardon me, sole. The little lad, Dickie, chose salmon; but Holder
reminded him that he had had salmon the previous evening; it was out of season in any case,
and he described how the sole tasted that probably Dickie will never touch. The boy appeared
to enjoy it immensely.

I think it was the game, simple roast partridges, exquisitely cooked, which Mrs. Holder enjoyed
most. Her eyes were frankly shining as she pensively chewed the third quarter of her sausage,
and she thrilled to the juices of the partridge of the dinner she could no longer hope really
to eat, but which Holder, thank God, would often describe, at any rate until a tax is put on
conversation. Even then something might be done--deaf and dumb language, possibly--an evasion,
I admit, but even the New Poor must eat occasionally.

We all enjoyed the game course most, with the exception of Dickie. The lad had finished his
sausage, and mashed potato alone is not inspiring. But that great man, Holder, noticed it in
time, and he satisfied the child with a word-painting of the brown crisp skin of cooked goose.
Then we drank some magnificent wine. Holder ransacked the English language for it. A vivifying
champagne.

But enough of food, or you will think we were gourmands. None of us cared for any sweets after
such a meal. And that is what I like about the Holders: with them enough is as good as the
feast they will never have.

After dinner we smoked a very fine cigar in the imaginary conservatory which Holder has just
run up, and I have rarely, if ever, heard a better description of men smoking cigars in a conservatory.
Next, Holder played me a fast game of billiards. He allowed me to choose my own table, and
I picked the most expensive in the catalogue. Dickie marked for us. Then he went to bed. I
heard his father whisper a most convincing description of eiderdowns and real wool blankets
when he kissed him. He is only a very little boy--big blue eyes, you know, like a girl's; they
watered a little. Excitement....

