Between ourselves, the number of those who still believe in the American Republic can be counted
on one's fingers. One has either pierced through the lie, all for the people and by the people--in
that case one must become a Revolutionist; or, one has succeeded in putting one's bounty in
safety--then he is a conservative. "No disturbances, please. We are about to close a profitable
contract." Modern bourgeoisie is absolutely indifferent as to who is to be their political
boss, just so they are given opportunity to store their profits, and accumulate great wealth.
Besides, the cry about the decline of the great Republic is really meaningless. As far as it
ever stood for liberty and well-being of the people, it has long ceased to be. Therefore lamentations
come too late. True, the American Republic has not given birth to an aristocracy. It has produced
the power of the parvenu, not less brutal than European aristocracy, only narrower in vision
and not less vulgar in taste.

Instead of mourning one ought to rejoice that the latest display of disgusting servility has
completely thrown off the mantle of liberty and independence of Dame Columbia, now exposed
before the civilized world in all her slavish submissiveness.

       *       *       *       *       *

+The storm in Russia+ has frightened many out of their warm bed-clothes.

A real Revolution in these police-regulated times. More than one voice was raised against the
possibility of a Revolution, and they who dared to predict it were considered fit for the lunatic
asylum.

The workingmen, peasants and students of Russia, however, have proven that the calculations
of the "wise" contained a hitch somewhere. A Revolution swept across the country and did not
even stop to ask permission of those in authority.

Authority and Power are now taking revenge on their daring sons and daughters. The Cossacks,
at the command of the "good Czar" are celebrating a bloody feast--knouting, shooting, clubbing
people to death, dragging great masses to prisons and into exile, and it is not the fault of
that vicious idiot on the throne, nor that of his advisors, Witte and the others, if the Revolution
still marches on, head erect. Were it in their power, they would break her proud neck with
one stroke, but they cannot put the heads of a hundred million people on the block, they cannot
deport eighty millions of Peasants to Siberia, nor can they order all the workingmen in the
industrial districts shot. Were the working bees to be killed, the drones would perish of starvation--that
is why the Czar of the Peace Treaty still suffers some of his people to live?----

       *       *       *       *       *

+In Mayville, Wis.+, a transvaluation society has been formed, the purpose of which is, to
bring about the transvaluation of all values in matters of love and the relations of the sexes.
The members of this society are to contribute by word and deed towards the breaking of all
barriers that prevent an ideal and healthy conception of love.

The president of this society, Emil Ruedebusch, known in this country through his work, "The
Old and New Ideal," which, by the way, was confiscated upon the grounds of obscenity and the
author put on trial. It is an undisputed fact that robust, graft-greedy Columbia abhors every
free expression on love or marriage. Emil Ruedebusch, like many others who have dared to lift
the veil of hypocrisy, was condemned to a heavy fine. A second work of the author, "Die Eigenen,"
was published in Germany.

His idea, that the relation of the sexes must be freed from the oppressing fetters of a lame
morality that degrades every human emotion to the plane of utility and purpose, I heartily
endorse. His method of achieving the ideal seems to me too full of red tape. However, I welcome
every effort against the conspiracy of ignorance, hypocrisy and stupid prudery, against the
simplest manifestation of nature. That alone can fill the emptiness and replace the tragedy
of woman's emancipation with joy, limitless joy.

TRY LOVE

By GRACE POTTER

In the human heart it lies. The key to happiness Men call the key love. In the sweet time of
youth, every man and every maid knows where lies the key that will unlock happiness. Sometimes,
they, laughing, hold the key in eager, willing hands and will not put it in the door for very
bliss and waiting. Just outside they laugh and play and blow wild kisses to the world. The
whole world of men and women, who in their youth found happiness in just that way, is gathered
round to see it found again.

When at last the man and maid unlock the door and go in joy to find their happiness, the men
and women who have been watching them bury their faces in their hands and weep. Why do they
weep? Because they are thinking that soon other doors in life will be met by this man and maid
and that there will be no keys to unlock them. They, themselves, could find no key.

They never thought of trying the key of love in all the doors of life. Long and wearily, eyes
searching wide, hands eagerly groping, they have spent their time trying to find other keys.
They have looked for and found knowledge. And tried that. Looked for and found fame. And tried
that. Looked for and found wealth. And tried that. Looked for and found many, many other keys.
And tried them all. And when at last they have lain down on their deathbeds, they have turned
gray hopeless faces to the world and died saying, "We could not find the right key."

Some few, some very few, there are, who try the key of love in all life's doors. Radiant, they
turn to the men and women about and cry, "Try love! It unlocks all other doors as surely as
it does the first in life. Try love!"

And though their fellow beings see that these are the only ones in all the world who find happiness,
they turn doubting from them. "It cannot be," they say, "that the key we used in youth should
be used again in all the other doors of life." And so they keep on trying the keys that every
disappointed, dying man calls out in warning voice will fail.

Only a few there are who learn--a very few--that love unlocks all other doors in life as surely
as it does the first. Try love!

+Japan.+--A new civilization. The land of a new culture! was the cry of every penny-a-liner
at the time when she began to display her battleships, cannon, and her accomplished method
of drilling her soldiers. They were mocking themselves and did not know how. They talk of culture
and civilization and their criterion thereof is the development of the technique of murder.
Again, Japan a modern state. She can take her place in the ranks of other civilized countries.
Rejoice! and then learn that victorious Japan is on the threshold of a famine. Nearly a million
people, it is laconically reported, are in danger of dying of starvation. Surely, no one will
possibly doubt now that Japan is a civilized country.

WITHOUT GOVERNMENT

By MAX BAGINSKI

The gist of the anarchistic idea is this, that there are qualities present in man, which permit
the possibilities of social life, organization, and co-operative work without the application
of force. Such qualities are solidarity, common action, and love of justice. To-day they are
either crippled or made ineffective through the influence of compulsion; they can hardly be
fully unfolded in a society in which groups, classes, and individuals are placed in hostile,
irreconcilable opposition to one another. In human nature to-day such traits are fostered and
developed which separate instead of combining, call forth hatred instead of a common feeling,
destroy the humane instead of building it up. The cultivation of these traits could not be
so successful if it did not find the best nourishment in the foundations and institutions of
the present social order.

On close inspection of these institutions, which are based upon the power of the State that
maintains them, mankind shows itself as a huge menagerie, in which the captive beasts seek
to tear the morsels from each other's greedy jaws. The sharpest teeth, the strongest claws
and paws vanquish the weaker competitors. Malice and underhand dealing are victorious over
frankness and confidence. The struggle for the means of existence and for the maintenance of
achieved power fill the entire space of the menagerie with an infernal noise. Among the methods
which are used to secure this organized bestiality the most prominent ones are the hangman,
the judge with his mechanical: "In the name of the king," or his more hypocritical: "In the
name of the people I pass sentence"; the soldier with his training for murder, and the priest
with his: "Authority comes from God."

The exteriors of prisons, armories, and churches show that they are institutions in which the
body and soul are subdued. He whose thoughts reach beyond this philosophy of the menagerie
sees in them the strongest expression of the view, that it is not possible to make life worth
living the more with the help of reason, love, justice, solidarity. The family and school take
care to prepare man for these institutions. They deliver him up to the state, so to speak,
blindfolded and with fettered limbs. Force, force. It echoes through all history. The first
law which subjected man to man was based upon force. The private right of the individual to
land was built up by force; force took way the claims upon homesteads from the majority and
made them unsettled and transitory. It was force that spoke to mankind thus: "Come to me, humble
yourself before me, serve me, bring the treasures and riches of the earth under MY roof. You
are destined by Providence to always be in want. You shall be allowed just enough to maintain
strength with which to enrich me infinitely by your exertions and to load me down with superfluity
and luxury."

What maintains the material and intellectual slavery of the masses and the insanity of the
autocracy of the few? Force. Workingmen produce in the factories and workshops the most varied
things for the use of man. What is it that drives them to yield up these products for speculation's
sake to those who produce nothing, and to content themselves with only a fractional part of
the values which they produce? It is force.

What is it that makes the brain-worker just as dependent in the intellectual realm as the artisan
in the material world? Force. The artist and the writer being compelled to gain a livelihood
dare not dream of giving the best of their individuality. No, they must scan the market in
order to find out what is demanded just then. Not any different than the dealer in clothes
who must study the style of the season before he places his merchandise before the public.
Thus art and literature sink to the level of bad taste and speculation. The artistic individuality
shrinks before the calculating reckoner. Not that which moves the artist or the writer most
receives expression; the vacillating demands of mediocrity of every-day people must be satisfied.
The artist becomes the helper of the dealer and the average men, who trot along in the tracks
of dull habit.

The State Socialists love to assert that at present we live in the age of individualism; the
truth, however, is that individuality was never valued at so low a rate as to-day. Individual
thinking and feeling are incumbrances and not recommendations on the paths of life. Wherever
they are found on the market they meet with the word "adaptation." Adapt yourself to the demands
of the reigning social powers, act the obedient servant before them, and if you produce something
be sure that it does not run against the grain of your "superiors," or say adieu to success,
reputation and recompense. Amuse the people, be their clown, give them platitudes about which
they can laugh, prejudices which they hold as righteousness and falsehoods which they hold
as truths. Paint the whole, crown it with regard for good manners, for society does not like
to hear the truth about itself. Praise the men in power as fathers of the people, have the
devourers of the common wealth parade along as benefactors of mankind.

Of course, the force which humbles humanity in this manner is far from openly declaring itself
as force. It is masked, and in the course of time it has learned to step forward with the least
possible noise. That diminishes the danger of being recognized.

The modern republic is a good example. In it tyranny is veiled so correctly, that there are
really great numbers of people who are deceived by this masquerade, and who maintain that what
they perceive is a true face with honest eyes.

No czar, no king. But right in line with these are the landowners, the merchants, manufacturers,
landlords, monopolists. They all are in possession, which is as strong a guarantee for the
continuance of their power, as a castle surrounded by thick walls. Whoever possesses can rob
him who possesses nothing of his independence. If I am dependent for a living on work, for
which I need contrivances and machines, which I my self cannot procure, because I am without
means, I must sacrifice my independence to him who possesses these contrivances and machines.
You may work here, he will tell me, but only under the condition that you will deliver up the
products of your labor to me, that I may trade with and make profit on them.

The one without possessions has no choice. He may appeal to the declaration of human rights;
he may point to his political rights, the equality before the law, before God and the archangels--if
he wants to eat, drink, dress and have a home he must choose such work as the conditions of
the industrial mercantile or agricultural plants impose upon him.

Through organized opposition the workingmen can somewhat improve this condition; by the help
of trade unions they can regulate the hours of work and hinder the reduction of wages to a
level too low for mere living. The trade unions are a necessity for the workingmen, a bulwark
against which the most unbearable demands of the class of possessors rebound; but a complete
freeing of labor--be it of an intellectual or of a physical nature--can be brought about only
through the abolition of wage work and the right of private ownership of land and the sources
of maintenance and nourishment of mankind. There are heart-rending cries over the blasphemous
opinion that property is not as holy a thing as its possessors would like to make it. They
declare that possessions must not be less protected than human life, for they are necessary
foundations of society. The case is represented as though everybody were highly interested
in the maintenance of the right of private property, whereas conditions are such that non-possession
is the normal condition of most people.

Because few possess everything, therefore the many possess nothing. So far as possession can
be considered as an oppressive measure in the hands of a few, it is a monopoly. Set in a paradox
it would read: The abolition of property will free the people from homelessness and non-possession.
In fact, this will happen when the earth with its treasures shall cease to be an object of
trade for usurers; when it shall vouchsafe to all a home and a livelihood. Then not only the
bent bodies will straighten; the intellect free itself as might the bound Prometheus rid himself
of his fetters and leave the rock to which he is chained, but we shall look back on the institutions
of force, the state, the hangman, et al, as ghosts of an anxious fantasy.

