  "MEXICANS! The late events of the war and the measures
  adopted in consequence by our Government make it my duty to address
  you, in order to lay before you truths of which you are ignorant,
  because they have been criminally concealed from you. I do not ask
  you to believe me simply on my word--though he who has not been
  found false has a claim to be believed--but to judge for yourselves
  of these truths from facts within the view and scrutiny of you all.
  Whatever may have been the origin of this war, which the United
  States was forced to undertake by insurmountable causes, we regard
  it as an evil. War is ever such to both belligerents, and the reason
  and justice of the case, if not known on both sides, are in dispute
  and claimed by each. You have proof of this truth as well as we, for
  in Mexico, as in the United States, there have existed and do exist
  two opposite parties, one desiring peace and the other war.
  Governments have, however, sacred duties to perform from which they
  can not swerve; and these duties frequently impose, from national
  considerations, a silence and reserve that displeases at all times
  the majority of those who, from views purely personal or private,
  are formed in opposition, to which Governments can pay little
  attention, expecting the nation to repose in them the confidence due
  to a magistracy of its own selection--considerations of high policy
  and of continental American interests precipitated even in spite of
  circumspection of the Cabinet at Washington. This Cabinet, ardently
  desiring to terminate all differences with Mexico, spared no effort
  compatible with honor and dignity. It cherished the most flattering
  hopes of attaining this end by frank explanations and reasonings
  addressed to the judgment and prudence of the virtuous and patriotic
  government of General Herrera. An unexpected misfortune dispelled
  these hopes and closed every avenue of an honorable adjustment. Your
  new Government disregarded your national interests, as well as those
  of continental America, and yielded, moreover, to foreign influences
  the most opposed to these interests, the most fatal to the future of
  Mexican liberty and of that republican system which the United
  States holds it a duty to preserve and protect. Duty, honor, and
  dignity placed us under the necessity of not losing a season of
  which the monarchical party was fast taking advantage. As not a
  moment was to be lost, we acted with a promptness and decision
  suited to the urgency of the case, in order to avoid a complication
  of interests which might render our relations more difficult and
  involved. Again, in the course of civil war, the Government of
  General Paredes was overthrown. We could not but look upon this as a
  fortunate event, believing that any other administration
  representing Mexico would be less deluded, more patriotic, and more
  prudent, looking to the common good, weighing probabilities,
  strength, resources, and, above all, the general opinion as to the
  inevitable results of a national war. We were deceived, and perhaps
  you Mexicans were also deceived, in judging of the real intentions
  of General Santa Anna when you recalled and when your Government
  permitted him to return. Under this state of things the Mexican
  nation has seen the results lamented by all, and by us most
  sincerely, for we appreciate as is due the valor and noble decision
  of those unfortunate men who go to battle ill-conducted, worse cared
  for, and almost always enforced by violence, deceit, or perfidy. We
  are witnesses, and we shall not be taxed with partiality as a party
  interested when we lament with surprise that the heroic behavior of
  the garrison at Vera Cruz in its valiant defense has been aspersed
  by the general who has just been routed and put to shameful flight
  at Buena Vista by a force far inferior to his own. The same general
  rewarded the insurgents of the capital, promoters of civil war, and
  heaped outrage upon those who had just acquired for themselves
  singular distinction by a resistance beyond expectation and of
  admirable decision. Finally, the bloody events of Cerro Gordo have
  plainly shown the Mexican nation what it may reasonably expect if it
  is no longer blind to its real situation--a situation to which it
  has been brought by some of its generals whom it has most
  distinguished and in whom it has most confidence. The hardest heart
  would have been moved to grief in contemplating any battlefield in
  Mexico a moment after the last struggle. Those generals whom the
  nation has paid without service rendered for so many years, have, in
  the day of need, with some honorable exceptions, but served to
  injure her by their bad example or unskillfulness. The dead and
  wounded on those battlefields received no marks of military
  distinction, sharing alike the sad fate which has been the same from
  Palo Alto to Cerro Gordo; the dead remained unburied and the wounded
  abandoned to the clemency and charity of the victor. Soldiers who go
  to battle knowing they have such reward to look for deserve to be
  classed with the most heroic, for they are stimulated by no hope of
  glory, nor remembrance, nor a sigh, nor even a grave! Again,
  contemplate, honorable Mexicans, the lot of peaceful and industrious
  citizens in all classes of your country. The possessions of the
  Church menaced and presented as an allurement to revolution and
  anarchy; the fortunes of rich proprietors pointed out for plunder of
  armed ruffians; and merchants and the mechanic, the husbandman and
  the manufacturer, burdened with contributions, excises, monopolies,
  duties on consumption, surrounded by officers and collectors of
  these odious internal customs; the man of letters and the
  legislator, the freeman of knowledge who dares to speak, persecuted
  without trial by some faction or by the very rulers who abuse their
  power; and criminals unpunished are set at liberty, as were those of
  Perote. What, then, Mexicans, is the liberty of which you boast? I
  do not believe that Mexicans at the present day want the courage to
  confess errors which do not dishonor them, or to adopt a system of
  true liberty--one of peace and union with their brethren and
  neighbors of the North. Neither can I believe the Mexicans ignorant
  of the infamy of the calumnies put forth by the press in order to
  excite hostility against us. No, public spirit can not be created or
  animated by falsehood. We have not profaned your temples, nor abused
  your women, nor seized your property, as they could have you
  believe. We say it with pride, and we confirm it by an appeal to
  your bishops and the curates of Tampico, Tuzpan, Matamoros,
  Monterey, Vera Cruz, and Jalapa; to all clergy, civil authorities,
  and inhabitants of all places we have occupied. We adore the same
  God, and a large portion of our army, as well as of the people of
  the United States, are Catholics, like yourselves. We punish crime
  wherever we find it, and reward merit and virtue. The army of the
  United States respects, and will ever respect, private property of
  every class, and the property of the Mexican Church. Woe to him who
  does not where we are! Mexicans, the past is beyond remedy, but the
  future may yet be controlled. I have repeatedly declared to you that
  the Government and the people of the United States desire peace,
  desire your sincere friendship. Abandon, then, state prejudices;
  cease to be the sport of private ambition, and conduct yourselves
  like a great American nation. Abandon at once these old colonial
  habits, and learn to be truly free, truly republican. You may then
  soon attain prosperity and happiness, of which you possess all the
  elements; but remember that you are Americans, and that your
  happiness is not to come from Europe. I desire, in conclusion, to
  say to you with equal frankness that, were it necessary, an army of
  one hundred thousand Americans would soon be among you, and that the
  United States, if forced to terminate by arms their differences with
  you, would not do it in an uncertain or precarious, or, still less,
  in a dishonorable manner. It would be an insult to the intelligent
  people of their country to doubt their knowledge of your power. The
  system of forming guerrilla parties to annoy us will, I assure you,
  produce only evil to this country and none to our army, which knows
  how to protect itself and how to proceed against such cut-throats;
  and if, so far from calming resentments and passion, you try to
  irritate, you will but force upon us the hard necessity of
  retaliation. In that event, you can not blame us for the
  consequences which will fall upon yourselves. I shall march with
  this army upon Puebla and Mexico. I do not conceal this from you.
  From those capitals I may again address you. We desire peace,
  friendship, and union; it is for you to choose whether you prefer
  continued hostilities. In either case, be assured, I will keep my
  word.                                            WINFIELD SCOTT."

Worth's division, now preceded by Harney's cavalry, moved from San Augustin on the main road
toward the City of Mexico. These were followed by the other divisions of the army. On this
route was situated the pedregal, which is a field of volcanic rock of very uneven surface.
It is between the roads leading to the capital from San Augustin and Padierna. A reconnoissance
of the pedregal was made by Lieutenants Robert E. Lee and Pierre G.T. Beauregard, who reported
that there was a passage for wagons of only a mile, and the remainder might be crossed by infantry,
carefully picking the way. The enemy were in position beyond the pedregal with considerable
artillery.

General Scott, on the night of the 18th, ordered a movement in the direction of Padierna. Worth
was ordered to cover San Antonio, Quitman to hold San Augustin, and Pillow to march over the
pedregal, while Twiggs was to cover and support Pillow's movement. On the morning of this movement
the Mexican General Blanco was ordered to construct batteries, and General Mejia to take position
on the Pelon Cuauhtitlan to command the expected movements of the American army. General Santa
Anna wrote from San Antonio through the Minister of War to General Valencia, at San Angel:
"The general in chief directs me to say to your Excellency that the enemy having now [August
18th, 3 P.M.] taken up a position on our left in front of San Antonio with a part of his forces,
it is clear that to-morrow at the latest he will undertake the attack of this fortification,
although it appears there is a movement going on at the same time on our right. His Excellency
therefore directs you at daylight to-morrow morning to fall back with your forces to Coyoacan,
and send forward your artillery to the fort and the tête-de-pont at Churubusco."

General Valencia declined to obey this order, giving his reason as follows: "I should like
much to be able to obey this order, but, in view of present circumstances, my conscience as
a military man and my patriotism will not permit me. I believe the national cause will be lost
if I should abandon these positions and the road leading from San Augustin through Padierna
to these points. To me it is as clear as the light of day that the enemy will undertake his
attack, if not to-morrow, the day after, and that he desires to make two attacks at the same
time, the one true and the other false, and that, should he find at the commencement of his
movements one of the points of attack abandoned, as this, for instance, he will pass by this
route with all his forces, and thus be enabled to assail our flank and turn our rear; or, if
he prefer it, he may pass on without obstruction to the City of Mexico."

General Valencia, however, ordered a thorough reconnoissance by General Mendoza, an engineer
officer, who reported "that Padierna was absolutely indefensible, and that it was believed
best to retire for reasons expressed in his note." General Valencia ordered Colonel Barreiro
to Zacatepetl to watch and report the movements of the enemy. He further ordered Colonel Mendoza
to occupy with his regiment the edge of the pedregal, having in his front a detachment of infantry
under Captain Solos, and beyond him a detachment of cavalry. To the left of Padierna was posted
the corps of San Luis Potosi, to the right the brigade of Lieutenant-Colonel Cabrera, and on
the ridge were the batteries and brigade of General Mejia. The supporting line were three battalions.
The reserve at Anzaldo, a mixed company of infantry and cavalry, was the command of General
Solos, supported on the right by two regiments of infantry.

Pillow's and Twiggs's divisions were observed by Colonel Barreiro to be moving over the mountain
of Zacatepetl and the pedregal. On an open ridge commanding the pedregal General Valencia had
planted guns which commanded the pedregal in the direction of San Augustin. On the morning
of August 19th General Santa Anna ordered two battalions to move from Churubusco to San Antonio,
Pillow's division of the American army having moved out from San Augustin on the road to Padierna,
which was to be covered by Twiggs's division. Twiggs moved, following Quitman, and passed beyond
San Augustin. General Alvarez closed on his rear. A working party of five hundred men under
engineer officers was detailed from Pillow's division to make the road to Padierna practicable
for artillery. While work was progressing on this road General Scott notified General Pillow
that Valencia was placing heavy guns in position, and ordered that the work be pushed forward
as rapidly as possible. Before the road was finished half the distance Twiggs's division passed
Pillow's command, and its advance was fired upon by the Mexicans. General Persifor F. Smith
ordered the mounted rifle regiment under Major William Wing Loring, aided by a section of Magruder's
battery, to drive in the Mexican pickets. Lieutenant George B. McClellan placed the artillery
in position, but before it was ready for action it received a fire from the guns on the elevated
ridge beyond Padierna. The remainder of Smith's brigade and the other section of Lieutenant
John Bankhead Magruder's battery were ordered forward, and the Mexicans were driven back. General
Bennet Riley's brigade was ordered to the right, and to pass over the pedregal and take possession
in the enemy's rear. General Cadwallader's brigade was ordered to support Riley's movement.
General Scott, perceiving that re-enforcements were approaching Valencia from the City of Mexico,
ordered a regiment of General Franklin Pierce's brigade to move forward and occupy San Geronimo,
and General James Shields with two regiments (New York, and Palmetto, South Carolina) was ordered
forward as a support. General Persifor F. Smith now moved to the front across the pedregal,
having left detachments as supports to the artillery of Magruder and Callender, which were
ordered to open fire on the beginning of General Smith's movement. This movement of General
Persifor F. Smith was led and conducted by Lieutenant Gustavus W. Smith. When this force reached
the village or town of San Geronimo a large force of the enemy came in sight. Pierce's brigade
was at once ordered to the front, and was met by a heavy fire. General Pierce having been disabled,
Colonel Robert Ransom, of the Ninth Infantry, was in command of the forces, which were conducted
by Lieutenant Isaac Ingles Stevens, and moved to the right and front of Magruder's battery.
Ransom, uniting with the detachment left by General Smith, took possession of Padierna, driving
the Mexican General Mendoza. Riley's command was the first to pass the pedregal, when it occupied
the road on the opposite side with Captain Simon Henry Drum's company of the Fourth Artillery.
A detachment of Mexican lancers escorting a train was encountered and captured.

Riley's command continued its advance, when a company of Mexican lancers was met and repulsed
by Captain Silas Casey's company. A mounted force, under the Mexican General Frontera, consisting
of two regiments, was met and repulsed by the Second Infantry under Captain Charles T. Morris
and the Seventh Infantry under Lieutenant-Colonel Joseph Plympton. General Frontera was killed
while leading a charge. Riley now withdrew to San Geronimo, which he found occupied by Cadwallader's
and Smith's brigades, and a regiment of Pierce's brigade under command of Colonel George Washington
Morgan. When General Valencia's advanced forces were driven in by Twiggs's division on the
pedregal, Valencia announced (August 19th, 2 P.M.) to General Santa Anna at San Antonio that
the enemy were approaching Padierna, the artillery had opened fire, and the battle had begun.
General Santa Anna at once, on receipt of this information, sent an officer to Coyoacan with
orders to General Perez to move at once to Padierna, and himself with two regiments and five
pieces of artillery proceeded to join him. He arrived at Coyoacan just at the time when the
command of Perez was moving, and he ordered it to move rapidly.

On the evening of August 19th General P.F. Smith was in San Geronimo with three brigades of
infantry, but without cavalry or artillery. His communications with the main army were cut
off except through the pedregal. He determined to attack, however, the next morning at daylight,
carry the enemy's works, and establish his communications with the main army. His disposition
of troops was as follows for the night: Cadwallader's command in the outer edge of the village
of San Geronimo, Riley's brigade parallel to it, the Rifles on the right, and the Third Infantry
in the churchyard. In the night Captain R.E. Lee arrived, bearing a letter from General Scott
asking to be informed of affairs beyond the pedregal. The information sought for was given,
and Captain Lee was requested to inform General Scott of General Smith's intention to attack
Valencia next morning, and asking that a diversion be made on Valencia's front. General Shields
arrived at midnight, and was left to hold the village and cut off the enemy's retreat. In the
meantime Colonel Ransom abandoned Padierna, which was soon afterward occupied by General Valencia's
forces, but not without stout resistance by the small detachment left there.

At nightfall General Santa Anna fell back to San Angel, but failed to give notice of the movement
to General Valencia. Mexican history states that at 9 P.M. Ramero and Del Rio arrived at Valencia's
headquarters and delivered an order from Santa Anna to Valencia to retire. General Solos, however,
who was present, denies this, saying that the order was qualified by one to spike the guns,
destroy the ammunition, and saving only what could be safely transported. General Valencia
declined to obey the order. At 2.30 P.M. of August 20th Smith's troops moved to reach Valencia's
rear. Riley's brigade and Cadwallader's followed this movement. General Shields with the New
York regiment of Colonel Ward B. Burnett and the South Carolina regiment under Colonel Pierce
M. Butler remained at the village, to intercept and cut off the enemy's retreat and to prevent
re-enforcements from reaching the Mexicans.

The night was intensely dark, and the streets of the village were very narrow, cut into gullies
and very muddy. A heavy rain was pouring down, and the march was made under difficulties and
necessarily slow. General Smith's position was on an eminence about one thousand yards from
the enemy's works, from which point he made the attack. Riley moved up the ravine to a slope
leading to a high point of the ridge and attacked the enemy some eight hundred yards distant.
Cadwallader followed Riley, and the Mounted Rifles and Engineer Company moved to a position
in rear of the force confronting Riley. The Third Infantry and First Artillery were held in
reserve. The attack was made as ordered by General Smith, and the enemy fled, pursued by Riley,
the Mounted Rifles, and Engineers.

The Third Infantry and First Artillery, held in reserve, were attacked by a force of cavalry,
which was driven off, and Valencia was completely routed. General Shields, who held the village,
seized the main road and cut off retreat in that direction. The enemy fled in the greatest
confusion. The battle of Contreras was one of the most brilliant victories of the war. It opened
the road to the City of Mexico. Seven hundred of the enemy were killed, eight hundred and thirteen
prisoners were captured, including eighty-eight officers, of whom four were generals; many
standards, twenty-two pieces of brass cannon, a large number of stands of small arms, seven
hundred pack mules, many horses, and large quantities of ordnance stores were added to the
outfit of the American army.

General Scott had planned to open up the way for the march of his army to the City of Mexico
by the way of Padierna. Knowing or believing that a stubborn defense would be made by the Mexicans,
he had ordered General Worth to march from San Antonio on the morning of August 20th, with
Garland's brigade, by way of San Augustin to Padierna, to be followed by General Quitman, who
was ordered to leave a cavalry force to hold San Antonio. But General Persifor F. Smith had
won the battle before these troops arrived.

A sufficient guard having been left with the prisoners, General Persifor F. Smith was ordered
with his brigade, the Mounted Rifles and Engineers, in pursuit of the fleeing enemy. They were
attacked at San Angel, but the attacking party were soon driven off. General Pillow joined
these forces at San Angel, and General Scott came up with them at Coyoacan, where he had ordered
the army to halt.

From this point in the direction of the capital, Churubusco was one mile; two miles to the
southeast was San Antonio. Churubusco is about six miles south of the City of Mexico, on a
river of the same name, and on the road from San Angel and San Antonio from San Augustin. General
Scott on his arrival ordered Captain Lee, with Captain Phil Kearney's company of the First
Dragoons and a company of the Mounted Rifles, to make a reconnoissance. In the meantime Pillow
and Cadwallader were to attack San Antonio in the rear, General Worth assailing it in front.
A reconnoissance having been made of the convent of San Pablo, in the town of Churubusco, a
brigade from Twiggs's division, a part of Smith's brigade, Riley's brigade, and Taylor's battery
were ordered to attack. After the defeat of General Valencia at Contreras, General Worth returned
with Garland's brigade in front of San Antonio. His orders were to attack as soon as Pillow
and Twiggs, moving from Contreras, approached in the rear. Worth ordered Clarke's brigade to
move over the pedregal and turn the right flank of the fortifications at San Antonio and cut
the enemy's line of communication. Henry Francis Clarke's brigade was attacked on its march,
but dispersed the attacking force, and soon encountered the rear of the Mexicans from San Antonio
and engaged them. Pillow with Cadwallader's brigade, joined Worth in pursuit of the fleeing
Mexican troops and both attacked the tête-de-pont in their front. Riley's brigade having been
ordered forward, General Scott ordered Pierce's brigade to move by the road leading north from
Coyoacan across the Churubusco River by a bridge, turn to the right, and seize the causeway
in the rear of the tête-de-pont. General Scott, learning that General Shields, in the rear
of the Mexican lines, was in danger of being cut off and captured, ordered Major E.V. Sumner
with the Mounted Rifles under Major W.W. Loring, and the Second Dragoons under Captain Henry
Hastings Sibley, to his support. The attack of the Americans being persistently pressed on
all sides, the Mexicans gave way and made a precipitous retreat, pursued by the victorious
Americans.

There remained yet to be captured the convent of San Pablo. This building, having very thick
walls, was impervious to the attack of field pieces. It was defended by a well-constructed
bastion, with flooded ditches, and guns placed in the embrasure. The attack was made by the
First Artillery, followed by the Third Infantry. During the attack the enemy made several sallies
from the convent, which were repulsed. The troops in the convent consisted of the Independencia
and Bravo battalions, about six hundred and fifty each, with the necessary cannoneers for six
guns, and in the tête-de-pont cannoneers for five guns, the San Patricio companies, and the
battalion of Tlapa. Along the Rio Churubusco, on the north side, was the brigade of General
Perez, some twenty-five hundred strong. The Mexicans made a brave and gallant defense, but
were compelled to succumb. The battles of Contreras and Churubusco were fought on the same
day, and were really one battle. In both actions the American loss was one hundred and thirty-nine
killed and nine hundred and twenty-six wounded. The Mexican loss was near four thousand killed
and wounded, with the loss of three hundred prisoners, thirty-seven cannon, and a large number
of small arms with ammunition.

General Scott could easily have occupied the Mexican capital on the same day, but meanwhile
Mr. Nicholas P. Trist had arrived from Washington with instructions from the President to endeavor
to make a treaty of peace, and both he and General Scott thought it best to await the turn
of events looking to that end. On the next morning, August 27, 1847, General Scott set out
on the San Antonio road, and was met near Churubusco by a deputation bearing a white flag from
the Mexican Government, proposing an armistice of thirty hours for burying the dead and collecting
the wounded, which he at once rejected. The deputation accompanying the flag consisted of Señores
Basadre, Mora y Villamil and Aranjos, who had been sent by Pacheco, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
General Santa Anna expressed great dissatisfaction at the action of the Minister, on which
he resigned. General Scott addressed a communication to the head of the Mexican Government
and general in chief, in which he said that too much blood had already been spilled, and suggested
that it was time the differences between the two republics should be settled. He mentioned
(what was known to the Mexican authorities) that a commissioner on the part of the United States,
clothed with full power to that end, was with his army. He expressed his willingness on reasonable
terms to agree to a short armistice. While he proposed to wait until the next morning for a
reply, he announced his intention "in the meantime to seize and occupy such positions outside
of the capital as I may deem necessary to the shelter and comfort of this army."

The Mexican authorities, through Alcorta, Secretary of War and of the Navy, named two brigadier
generals of the Mexican army, Mora y Villamil and Benito Quijano, to act as commissioners.

General Scott appointed as commissioners Major General John A. Quitman, Brigadier-General Franklin
Pierce, and Brevet Brigadier-General Persifor F. Smith. The convention concluded its work on
the 24th of August. It was agreed that hostilities should cease at once within thirty leagues
of the Mexican capital. No work of a military character was to be done, and any re-enforcements
or munitions of war except that now on its way to either army was to be stopped at a distance
of twenty-eight leagues from the capital. The American army was not to obstruct the passage
from the surrounding country into the capital of the ordinary supplies of food necessary for
the subsistence of the Mexican army and the inhabitants within the city, nor were the Mexican
authorities to obstruct the passage of supplies of subsistence from the city or country necessary
for the supply of the American army. The armistice was to continue pending negotiations or
until the commander of either army should give notice to the other of its cessation; and forty-eight
hours after such notice General Worth, on the night of the 21st, moved his division to Tacubaya,
where he was preceded by General Scott, and established his headquarters in the Bishop's Palace.
General Quitman remained at San Augustin, to which point General Shields returned with his
command. General Twiggs was at San Angel, and General Pillow at Mexcoac.

Previous to the occurrences just narrated, Major Folliot Thornton Lally had on August 6th marched
with a force of about one thousand men from Vera Cruz. He was joined en route by a company
of mounted Georgia volunteers, one of Louisiana mounted men, and two six-pounders, under command
of Lieutenant Henry B. Sears, of the Second Artillery. General Don Juan Soto, Governor of the
State of Vera Cruz, organized a force between one thousand and two thousand strong, a part
of which were paroled prisoners, with the purpose of attacking Major Lally and capturing his
wagon train, which was supposed to carry a large amount of silver coin. An attack was made
by this force on Major Lally at the pass of Ovejas, the engagement lasting an hour and a half.
Captains James Nelson Caldwell, of the Voltigeurs, and Arthur C. Cummings, Eleventh Infantry,
were severely wounded. Nine enlisted men were wounded, one mortally. The Mexican loss is not
known. On August 12th the command reached Puente Nacional and found the Mexicans in considerable
force, strongly barricaded. An artillery fire was opened on them and they were driven back.
The American loss in this affair was sixty killed and wounded. On approaching the battlefield
of Cerro Gordo they were again attacked, and sustained a loss of one killed and eight wounded.
Several other attacks of a similar character were made, but without success. Major Lally, with
his troops and wagon train, arrived at Jalapa thirteen days out from Vera Cruz, when without
interruption five days would have been sufficient for the march. Mr. Trist notified the Mexican
Minister of Foreign Affairs, August 25th, of the object of his mission, and requested a meeting.
He was advised that commissioners would meet him on the 27th at Azapotzalco, which was between
the two armies. General Santa Anna, after appointing several persons who declined, named General
Herrera, Señor Conto, General Mora y Villamil, Señor Atristain, and Secretary Miguel Arroyo.
On the morning of the 27th, before the meeting of the commissioners, a train of wagons sent
into the city to obtain supplies for the American army was met by a mob, stoned and driven
away. Subsequently an apology was offered for this gross infraction of the armistice, and the
wagons returned and secured their stores.

On meeting the commissioners, Mr. Trist exhibited his powers, which were ample, but that of
the Mexicans was simply confined to hearing propositions from Mr. Trist. Mr. Trist objected
to this limitation, but was assured that when it became necessary to sign the treaty they would
exhibit full powers. The American commissioners presented the project of a treaty the leading
feature of which related to the boundary line between the two countries. It was also a part
of the project that Mexico was to concede to the United States the right of transport across
the Isthmus of Tehuantepec free from tolls. These and all else asked by Mr. Trist were refused.
The Mexican commissioners asked for further instructions from their Government, which were
given--that they should neither exceed nor modify the former instructions given them. They
asked to be relieved, as these instructions placed them in an embarrassing position. A council
of ministers was called, and their former instructions were changed so as to authorize them
"to approximate to them as much as possible, agreeing to some modifications which the circumstances
of the country may exact, as well as to things of minor importance which may arise during the
discussion."

On September 1st, when the third meeting was held, the Mexican commissioners exhibited plenary
powers. No agreement being reached, it was proposed to extend the armistice for forty-five
days. But on September 5th the Mexican commissioners were informed that the Government would
not consent to the extension or to the cession of New Mexico, which Mr. Trist had insisted
on. The Mexican commissioners then submitted a counter project on the 6th, which in effect
refused all of the more important concessions asked by the United States. With this the diplomatic
conferences terminated. General Scott at once called a conference with his general officers.
He stated to them the bad faith of the enemy, who commenced the work of repair on their fortifications.
He recited the incident of the mobbing of teamsters. He closed by saying: "I have therefore
called you to headquarters to advise upon the propriety of dissolving the armistice, or [after
a pause] to inform you that I have dissolved it, and to read to you my letter to General Santa
Anna notifying him of the fact." Looking for the letter, he said, "I have torn it up." He at
once wrote a note and dispatched it to General Santa Anna, as follows:

          "HEADQUARTERS, ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

                              "TACUBAYA, September 6, 1847.

  "To his Excellency the President and General in Chief of the
  Mexican Republic.

  "SIR: The seventh article, as also the twelfth, that
  stipulates that trade shall remain unmolested--of the armistice
  or military convention which I had the honor to ratify and to
  exchange with your Excellency the 24th ultimo--has been repeatedly
  violated, beginning soon after date, on the part of Mexico; and I
  now have good reasons to believe that within the last forty-eight
  hours, if not earlier, the third article of that convention has been
  equally violated by the same party. These direct breaches of faith
  give to this army the most perfect right to resume hostilities
  against Mexico, without any notice whatever; but, to allow time for
  possible apology or reparation, I now give formal notice that,
  unless full satisfaction on these allegations should be received by
  me by 12 o'clock meridian to-morrow, I shall consider the said
  armistice at an end from and after that hour.

  "I have the honor to be your Excellency's most obedient servant,

                                                     "WINFIELD SCOTT."

General Santa Anna replied in an insolent note, denying General Scott's charges and making
counter charges.

Many newspapers throughout the United States criticised General Scott in the severest terms
for being duped by General Santa Anna into an armistice which the latter only desired to recruit
his army. There is the strongest evidence--that of Mr. Trist and the Mexican commissioners--that
Santa Anna was really desirous to make peace. The manifesto which he issued to the nation is
itself sufficient proof on this score; and certainly it reflects the highest credit on General
Scott, that when he was at the very gates of the capital, which he could have entered in a
few hours, he was willing to spare not only the lives of his own gallant army, but those of
the enemy. Santa Anna now called a meeting of the principal officers and governmental civilians
to meet him in the palace, and it was agreed to continue resistance.

A force was at once sent out under cover of the guns of Chapultepec to strengthen the position
and resist the advance of the Americans. At this point was a number of very large buildings
known as Molino del Rey, which had formerly been used for the manufacture of ordnance stores.
Chapultepec was a strong, well-fortified and well-armed fort. Molino del Rey was occupied by
a brigade of the National Guards, under General Leon. These were re-enforced on the morning
of the 7th by a brigade under General Rangel. The Casta Mata, a large storehouse surrounded
by a wide ditch and inclosed by a bastioned fort, was occupied by the brigade of General Perez,
and between these two positions was posted General Ramirez's brigade with six pieces of artillery.
In the rear occupying some woods were the reserves.

