SISTER TERESA had wept bitterly for two days. The vanity for which she did penance whenever
her madonna loveliness, consummated by the white robe and veil of her novitiate, tempted her
to one of the little mirrors in the pupil's dormitory, was powerless to check the blighting
flow. There had been moments when she had argued that her vanity had its rights, for had it
not played its part in weaning her from the world?--that wicked world of San Francisco, whose
very breath, accompanying her family on their monthly visits to Benicia, made her cross herself
and pray that all good girls whom fate had stranded there should find the peace and shelter
of Saint Catherine of Siena. It was true that before Sister Dominica toiled up Rincon Hill
on that wonderful day--here her sobs became so violent that Sister María Sal, praying beside
her with a face as swollen as her own, gave her a sharp poke in the ribs, and she pressed her
hands to her mouth lest she be marched away. But her thoughts flowed on; she could pray no
more. Sister Dominica, with her romantic history and holy life, her halo of fame in the young
country, and her unconquerable beauty--she had never seen such eyelashes, never, never!--what
was she thinking of at such a time? She had never believed that such divine radiance could
emanate from any mortal; never had dreamed that beauty and grace could be so enhanced by a
white robe and a black veil----Oh, well! Her mind was in a rebellious mood; it had been in
leash too long. And what of it for once in a way? No ball dress she had ever seen in the gay
disreputable little city--where the good citizens hung the bad for want of law--was half as
becoming as the habit of the Dominican nun, and if it played a part in weaning frivolous girls
from the world, so much more to the credit of Rome. God knew she had never regretted her flight
up the bays, and even had it not been for the perfidy of--she had forgotten his name; that
at least was dead!--she would have realized her vocation the moment Sister Dominica sounded
the call. When the famous nun, with that passionate humility all her own, had implored her
to renounce the world, protested that her vocation was written in her face--she really looked
like a juvenile mater dolorosa, particularly when she rolled up her eyes--eloquently demanded
what alternative that hideous embryo of a city could give her--that rude and noisy city that
looked as if it had been tossed together in a night after one of its periodical fires, where
the ill-made sidewalks tripped the unwary foot, or the winter mud was like a swamp, where the
alarm bell summoned the Vigilance Committee day and night to protect or avenge, where a coarse
and impertinent set of adventurers stared at and followed an inoffensive nun who only left
the holy calm of the convent at the command of the Bishop to rescue brands from the burning;
then had Teresa, sick with the tragedy of youth, an enchanting vision of secluded paths, where
nuns--in white--walked with downcast eyes and folded hands; of the daily ecstasy of prayer
in the convent chapel misty with incense.

And in some inscrutable way Sister Dominica during that long conversation, while Mrs. Grace
and her other daughters dispensed egg-nog in the parlor--it was New Year's Day--had made the
young girl a part of her very self, until Teresa indulged the fancy that without and within
she was a replica of that Concha Argüello of California's springtime; won her heart so completely
that she would have followed her not only into the comfortable and incomparably situated convent
of the saint of Siena, but barefooted into that wilderness of Soledad where the Indians still
prayed for their lost "Beata." It was just eight months tonight since she had taken her first
vows, and she had been honestly aware that there was no very clear line of demarcation in her
fervent young mind between her love of Sister Dominica and her love of God. Tonight, almost
prostrate before the coffin of the dead nun, she knew that so far at least all the real passion
of her youth had flowed in an undeflected tide about the feet of that remote and exquisite
being whose personal charm alone had made a convent possible in the chaos that followed the
discovery of gold. All the novices, many of the older nuns, the pupils invariably, worshipped
Sister Dominica; whose saintliness without austerity never chilled them, but whose tragic story
and the impression she made of already dwelling in a heaven of her own, notwithstanding her
sweet and consistent humanity, placed her on a pinnacle where any display of affection would
have been unseemly. Only once, after the beautiful ceremony of taking the white veil was over,
and Teresa's senses were faint from incense and hunger, ecstasy and a new and exquisite terror,
Sister Dominica had led her to her cell and kissing her lightly on the brow, exclaimed that
she had never been happier in a conquest for the Church against the vileness of the world.
Then she had dropped the conventional speech of her calling, and said with an expression that
made her look so young, so curiously virginal, that the novice had held her breath: "Remember
that here there is nothing to interrupt the life of the imagination, nothing to change its
course, like the thousand conflicting currents that batter memory and character to pieces in
the world. In this monotonous round of duty and prayer the mind is free, the heart remains
ever young, the soul unspotted; so that when----" She had paused, hesitated a moment, then
abruptly left the room, and Teresa had wept a torrent in her disappointment that this first
of California's heroines--whose place in history and romance was assured--had not broken her
reserve and told her all that story of many versions. She had begged Sister María Sal--the
sister of Luis Argüello's first wife--to tell it her, but the old nun had reproved her sharply
for sinful curiosity and upon one occasion boxed her ears. But tonight she might be in a softer
mood, and Teresa resolved that when the last rites were over she would make her talk of Concha
Argüello.

A few moments later she was lifted to her feet by a shaking but still powerful arm.

"Come!" whispered Sister María. "It is time to prepare. The others have gone. It is singular
that the oldest and the youngest should have loved her best. Ay! Dios de mi alma! I never thought
that Concha Argüello would die. Grow old she never did, in spite of the faded husk. We will
look at her once more."

The dead nun in her coffin lay in the little parlor where she had turned so many wavering souls
from fleeting to eternal joys. Her features, wasted during years of delicate health, seemed
to regain something of their youth in the soft light of the candles. Or was it the long black
eyelashes that hid the hollows beneath the eyes?--or the faint mysterious almost mocking smile?
Had the spirit in its eternal youth paused in its flight to stamp a last sharp impress upon
the prostrate clay? Never had she looked so virginal, and that had been one of the most arresting
qualities of her always remarkable appearance; but there was something more--Teresa held her
breath. Somehow, dead and in her coffin, she looked less saintly than in life; although as
pure and sweet, there was less of heavenly peace on those marble features than of some impassioned
human hope. Teresa excitedly whispered her unruly thoughts to Sister María, but instead of
the expected reproof the old nun lifted her shoulders.

"Perhaps," she said. "Who knows?"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Christmas eve and all the inmates of the convent paused in their sorrow to rejoice in
the happy portent of the death and burial of one whom they loyally believed to be no less entitled
to beatification than Catherine herself. Her miracles may not have been of the irreducible
protoplastic order, but they had been miracles to the practical Californian mind, notwithstanding,
and worthy of the attention of consistory and Pope. Moreover, this was the season when all
the vivacity and gaiety of her youth had revived, and she made merry, not only for the children
left at the convent by their nomadic parents, but for all the children of the town, whatever
the faith of their somewhat anxious elders.

An hour after sundown they carried the bier on which her coffin rested into the chapel. It
was a solemn procession that none, taking part, was likely to forget, and stirred the young
hearts at least with an ecstatic desire for a life as saintly as this that hardly had needed
the crown of death.

Following the bier was the cross-bearer, holding the emblem so high it was half lost in the
shadows. Behind her were the young scholars dressed in black, then the novices in their white
robes and veils, carrying lighted tapers to symbolize the eternal radiance that awaited the
pure in spirit. The nuns finished the procession that wound its way slowly through the long
ill-lighted corridors, chanting the litany of the dead. From the chapel, at first almost inaudible,
but waxing louder every moment, came the same solemn monotonous chant; for the Bishop and his
assistants were already at the altar....

Teresa, from the organ loft, looked eagerly down upon the beautiful scene, in spite of the
exaltation that filled her: her artistic sense was the one individuality she possessed. The
chapel was aglow with the soft radiance of many wax candles. They stood in high candelabra
against the somber drapery on the walls, and there were at least a hundred about the coffin
on its high catafalque before the altar; the Argüellos were as prodigal as of old. About the
catafalque was an immense mound of roses from the garden of the convent, and palms and pampas
from the ranch of Santiago Argüello in the south. The black-robed scholars knelt on one side
of the dead, the novices on the other, the relatives and friends behind. But art had perfected
itself in the gallery above the lower end of the chapel. This also was draped with black which
seemed to absorb, then shed forth again the mystic brilliance of the candles; and kneeling,
well apart, were the nuns in their ivory white robes and black veils, their banded softened
features as composed and peaceful as if their own reward had come.

The Bishop and the priests read the Requiem Mass, the little organ pealed the De Profundis
as if inspired; and when the imperious triumphant music of Handel followed, Teresa's fresh
young soprano seemed, to her excited imagination, to soar to the gates of heaven itself. When
she looked down again the lights were dim in the incense, her senses swam in the pungent odor
of spices and gum. The Bishop was walking about the catafalque casting holy water with a brush
against the coffin above. He walked about a second time swinging the heavy copper censer, then
pronounced the Requiescat in pace, "dismissing," as we find inscribed in the convent records,
"a tired soul out of all the storms of life into the divine tranquillity of death."

The bier was again shouldered, the procession reformed, and marched, still with lighted tapers
and chanting softly, out into the cemetery of the convent. It was a magnificent, clear night
and as mild as spring. Below the steep hill the little town of Benicia celebrated the eve of
Christmas with lights and noise. Beyond, the water sparkled like running silver under the wide
beams of the moon poised just above the peak of Monte Diablo, the old volcano that towered
high above this romantic and beautiful country of water and tule lands, steep hillsides and
canons, rocky bluffs overhanging the straits. In spite of the faint discords that rose from
the town and the slow tolling of the convent bell, it was a scene of lofty and primeval grandeur,
a fit setting for the last earthly scene of a woman whose lines had been cast in the wilderness,
but yet had found the calm and the strength and the peace of the old mountain, with its dead
and buried fires.

The grave closed, the mourners returned to the convent, but not in order. At the door Teresa
felt her arm taken possession of by a strong hand with which she had had more than one disconcerting
encounter.

"Let us walk," said Sister María Sal in her harsh but strong old voice. "I have permission.
I must talk of Concha tonight or I should burst. It is not for nothing one keeps silent for
years and years. I at least am still human. And you loved her the best and have spoiled your
pretty face with weeping. You must not do that again, for the young love a pretty nun and will
follow her into the one true life on earth far sooner than an ugly old phiz like mine."

Sister María, indeed, retained not an index of the beauty with which tradition accredited her
youth. She was a stout unwieldy old woman with a very red face covered half over with black
down, and in the bright moonlight Teresa could see the three long hairs that stood out straight
from a mole above her mouth and scratched the girls when she kissed them. Tonight her nose
was swollen and her eyes looked like appleseeds. Teresa hastily composed her features and registered
a vow that in her old age she would look like Sister Dominica, not like that. She had heard
that Concha, too, had been frivolous in her youth, and had not she herself a tragic bit of
a story? True, her youthful love-tides had turned betimes from the grave beside the Mission
Dolores to the lovely nun and the God of both, and she had heard that Doña Concha had proved
her fidelity to a wonderful Russian throughout many years before she took the veil. Perhaps--who
knew?--her more conformable pupil might have restored the worthless to her heart before he
was knifed in the full light of day on Montgomery Street by one from whom he had won more than
thousands the night before; perhaps have consoled herself with another less eccentric, had
not Sister Dominica sought her at the right moment and removed her from the temptations of
the world. Well, never mind, she could at least be a good nun and an amiable instructor of
youth, and if she never looked like a living saint she would grow soberer and nobler with the
years and take care that she grew not stout and red.

For a time Sister María did not speak, but walked rapidly and heavily up and down the path,
dragging her companion with her and staring out at the beauty of the night. But suddenly she
slackened her pace and burst into speech.

"Ay yi! Ay de mi! To think that it is nearly half a century--forty-two years to be precise--for
will it not be 1858 in one more week?--since Rezánov sailed out through what Frémont has called
'The Golden Gate'! And forty-one in March since he died--not from the fall of a horse, as Sir
George Simpson (who had not much regard for the truth anyway, for he gave a false picture of
our Concha), and even Doctor Langsdorff, who should have known better, wrote it, but worn out,
worn out, after terrible hardships, and a fever that devoured him inch by inch. And he was
so handsome when he left us! Dios de mi alma! never have I seen a man like that. If I had I
should not be here now, perhaps, so it is as well. But never was I even engaged, and when permission
came from Madrid for the marriage of my sister Rafaella with Luis Argüello--he was an officer
and could not marry without a special license from the King, and through some strange oversight
he was six long years getting it--; well, I lived with them and took care of the children until
Rafaella--Ay yi! what a good wife she made him, for he 'toed the mark,' as the Americans say--;
well, she died, and one of those days he married another; for will not men be men? And Luis
was a good man in spite of all, a fine loyal clever man, who deserves the finest monument in
the cemetery of the Mission Dolores--as they call it now. The Americans have no respect for
anything and will not say San Francisco de Assisi, for it is too long and they have time for
nothing but the gold. Were it not a sin, how I should hate them, for they have stolen our country
from us--but no, I will not; and, to be sure, if Rezánov had lived he would have had it first,
so what difference? Luis, at least, was spared. He died in 1830--and was the first Governor
of Alta California after Mexico threw off the yoke of Spain. He had power in full measure and
went before these upstart conquerors came to humble the rest of us into the dust. Peace to
his ashes--but perhaps you care nothing for this dear brother of my youth, never heard of him
before--such a giddy thing you were; although at the last earthquake the point of his monument
flew straight into the side of the church and struck there, so you may have heard the talk
before they put it back in its place. It is of Sister Dominica you think, but I think not only
of her but of those old days--Ay, Dios de mi! Who remembers that time but a few old women like
myself?

"Concha's father, Don José Dario Argüello, was Commandante of the Presidio of San Francisco
then; and there was nothing else to call San Francisco but the Mission. Down at Yerba Buena,
where the Americans flaunt themselves, there was but a Battery that could not give even a dance.
But we had dances at the Presidio; day and night the guitar tinkled and the fiddles scraped;
for what did we know of care, or old age, or convents or death? I was many years younger than
Rafaella and did not go to the grand balls, but to the little dances, yes, many and many. When
the Russians came--it was in 1806--I saw them every day, and one night danced with Rezánov
himself. He was so gay--ay de mi! I remember he swung me quite off my feet and made as if he
would throw me in the air. I was angry that he should treat me like a baby, and then he begged
me so humbly to forgive him, although his eyes laughed, that of course I did. He had come down
from Sitka to try and arrange for a treaty with the Spanish government that the poor men in
the employ of the Russian-American Company might have breadstuffs to eat and not die of scurvy,
nor toil through the long winter with no flesh on their bones. He brought a cargo with him
to exchange for our corn and flour meanwhile. We had never seen any one so handsome and so
grand and he turned all our heads, but he had a hard time with the Governor and Don José--there
are no such Californians now or the Americans would never have got us--and it took all his
diplomacy and all the help Concha and the priests could give him before he got his way, for
there was a law against trading with foreigners. It was only when he and Concha became engaged
that Governor Arillaga gave in--how I pick up vulgar expressions from these American pupils,
I who should reform them! And did I not stand Ellen O'Reilley in the corner yesterday for calling
San Francisco 'Frisco'?--San Francisco de Assisi! But all the saints have fled from California.

"Where was I? Forgive an old woman's rambling, but I have not told stories since Rafaella's
children grew up, and that was many years ago. What do I talk here? You know. And I that used
to love to talk. Ay yi! But no one can say that I am not a good nun. Bishop Alemany has said
it and no one knows better than he, the holy man. But for him I might be sitting all day on
a corridor in the south sunning myself like an old crocodile, for we had no convent till he
came eight years ago; and perhaps but for Concha, whom I always imitated, I might have a dozen
brats of my own, for I was pretty and had my wooers and might have been persuaded. And God
knows, since I must have the care of children, I prefer they should be mothered by some one
else for then I have always the hope to be rid of them the sooner. Well, well! I am not a saint
yet, and when I go to heaven I suppose Concha will still shake her finger at me with a smile.
Not that she was ever self-righteous, our Concha. Not a bit of it. Only after that long and
terrible waiting she just naturally became a saint. Some are made that way and some are not.
That is all.

"Did I tell you about the two young lieutenants that came with Baron Rezánov? Davidov and Khostov
their names were. Well, well, I shall tell all tonight. I was but fourteen, but what will you?
Was I not, then, Spanish? It was Davidov. He always left the older people to romp with the
children, although I think there was a flame in his heart for Concha. Perhaps had I been older--who
knows? Do not look at my whiskers! That was forty-two years ago. Well, I dreamed of the fair
kind young Russian for many a night after he left, and when my time came to marry I would look
at none of the caballeros, but nursed Rafaella's babies and thought my thoughts. And then--in
1815 I think it was--the good--and ugly--Dr. Langsdorff sent Luis a copy of his book--he had
been surgeon to his excellency--and alas! it told of the terrible end of both those gay kind
young men. They were always too fond of brandy; we knew that, but we never--well, hear me!
One night not so many years after they sailed away from California, they met Dr. Langsdorff
and another friend of their American days, Captain D'Wolf, by appointment in St. Petersburg
for a grand reunion. They were all so happy! Perhaps it was that made them too much 'celebrate,'
as the Americans say in their dialect. Well, alas! they celebrated until four in the morning,
and then my two dear young Russians--for I loved Khostov as a sister, so devoted he was to
my friend--well, they started--on foot--for home, and that was on the other side of the Neva.
They had almost crossed the bridge when they suddenly took it into their heads that they wanted
to see their friends again, and started back. Alas, in the middle of the bridge was a section
that opened to permit the passage of boats with tall masts. The night was dark and stormy.
The bridge was open. They did not see it. The river was roaring and racing like a flood. A
sailor saw them fall, and then strike back for the coming boat. Then he saw them no more. That
was the last of my poor friends.

"And we had all been so gay, so gay! For how could we know? All the Russians said that never
had they seen a people so light-hearted and frolicking as the Californians, so hospitable,
so like one great family. And we were, we were. But you know of that time. Was not your mother
Conchitita Castro, if she did marry an American and has not taught you ten words of Spanish?
It is of Concha you would hear, and I ramble. Well, who knows? perhaps I hesitate. Rezánov
was of the Greek Church. No priest in California would have married them even had Don José--el
santo we called him--given his consent. It was for that reason Rezánov went to obtain a dispensation
from His Holiness and a license from the King of Spain. Concha knew that he could not return
for two years or nearly that, nor even send her a letter; for why should ships come down from
Sitka until the treaty was signed? Only Rezánov could get what he wanted, law or no law. And
then too our Governor had forbidden the British and Bostonians--so we called the Americans
in those days--to enter our ports. This Concha knew, and when one knows one can think in storeys,
as it were, and put the last at the top. It is not so bad as the hope that makes the heart
thump every morning and the eyes turn into fountains at night. Dios! To think that I should
ever have shed a tear over a man. Chinchosas, all of them. However--I think Concha, who was
never quite as others, knew deep down in her heart that he would not come back, that it was
all too good to be true. Never was a man seen as handsome as that one, and so clever--a touch
of the devil in his cleverness, but that may have been because he was a Russian. I know not.
And to be a great lady in St. Petersburg, and later--who can tell?--vice-Tsarina of all this
part of the world! No, it could not be. It was a fairy tale. I only wonder that the bare possibility
came into the life of any woman,--and that a maiden of New Spain, in an unknown corner, that
might as well have been on Venus or Mars.

"But Concha had character. She was not one to go into a decline--although I am woman enough
to know that her pillow was wet many nights; and besides she lost the freshness of her beauty.
She was often as gay as ever, but she cared less and less for the dance, and found more to
do at home. Don José was made Commandante of the Santa Barbara Company that same year, and
it was well for her to be in a place where there were no memories of Rezánov. But late in the
following year as the time approached for his return, or news of him, she could not contain
her impatience. We all saw it--I was visiting the Pachecos in the Presidio of Santa Barbara.
She grew so thin. Her eyes were never still. We knew. And then!--how many times she climbed
to the fortress--it was on that high bluff beside the channel--and stared out to sea--when
1808 and the Spring had come--for hours together: Rezánov was to return by way of Mexico. Then,
when I went back to San Francisco soon after, she went with me, and again she would watch the
sea from the summit of Lone Mountain, as we call it now. In spite of her reason she hoped,
I suppose; for that is the way of women. Or perhaps she only longed for the word from Sitka
that would tell her the worst and have done with it. Who knows? She never said, and we dared
not speak of it. She was always very sweet, our Concha, but there never was a time when you
could take a liberty with her.

"No ship came, but something else did--an earthquake! Ay yi, what an earthquake that was! Not
a temblor but a terremoto. The whole Presidio came down. I do not know now how we saved all
the babies, but we always flew to the open with a baby under each arm the moment an earthquake
began, and in the first seconds even this was not so bad. The wall about the Presidio was fourteen
feet high and seven feet thick and there were solid trunks of trees crossed inside the adobe.
It looked like a heap of dirt, nothing more. Luis was riding up from the Battery of Yerba Buena
and his horse was flung down and he saw the sand-dunes heaving toward him like waves in a storm
and shiver like quicksilver. And there was a roar as if the earth had dropped and the sea gone
after. Ay California! And to think that when Luis wrote a bitter letter to Governor Arillaga
in Monterey, the old Mexican wrote back that he had felt earthquakes himself and sent him a
box of dates for consolation! Well--we slept on the ground for two months and cooked out-of-doors,
for we would not go even into the Mission--which had not suffered--until the earthquakes were
over; and if the worst comes first there are plenty after--and, somehow, harder to bear. Perhaps
to Concha that terrible time was a God-send, for she thought no more of Rezánov for a while.
If the earthquake does not swallow your body it swallows your little self. You are a flea.
Just that and nothing more.

"But after a time all was quiet again; the houses were rebuilt and Concha went back to Santa
Barbara. By that time she knew that Rezánov would never come, although it was several years
before she had a word. Such stories have been told that she did not know of his death for thirty
years! Did not Baránhov, Chief-manager of the Russian-Alaskan Company up there at Sitka, send
Koskov--that name was so like!--to Bodega Bay in 1812, and would he fail to send such news
with him? Was not Dr. Langsdorff's book published in 1814? Did not Kotzbue, who was on his
excellency's staff during the embassy to Japan, come to us in 1816, and did we not talk with
him every day for a month? Did not Rezánov's death spoil all Russia's plans in this part of
the world--perhaps, who knows? alter the course of her history? It is likely we were long without
hearing the talk of the North! Such nonsense! Yes, she knew it soon enough, but as that good
Padre Abella once said to us, she had the making of the saint and the martyr in her, and even
when she could hope no more she did not die, nor marry some one else, nor wither up and spit
at the world. Long before the news came, indeed, she carried out a plan she had conceived,
so Padre Abella told us, even while Rezánov was yet here. There were no convents in California
in those days--you may know what a stranded handful we were--but she joined the Tertiary or
Third Order of Franciscans, and wore always the grey habit, the girdle, and the cross. She
went among the Indians christianizing them, remaining a long while at Soledad, a bleak and
cheerless place, where she was also a great solace to the wives of the soldiers and settlers,
whose children she taught. The Indians called her 'La Beata,' and by that name she was known
in all California until she took the veil, and that was more than forty years later. And she
was worshipped, no less. So beautiful she was, so humble, so sweet, and at the same time so
practical; she had what the Americans call 'hard sense,' and something of Rezánov's own way
of managing people. When she made up her mind to bring a sinner or a savage into the Church
she did it. You know.

"But do not think she had her way in other things without a struggle. Don José and Doña Ignacia--her
mother--permitted her to enter upon the religious life, for they understood; and Luis and Santiago
made no protest either, for they understood also and had loved Rezánov. But the rest of her
family, the relations, the friends, the young men--the caballeros! They went in a body you
might say to Don José and demanded that Concha, the most beautiful and fascinating and clever
girl in New Spain, should come back to the world where she belonged,--be given in marriage.
But Concha had always ruled Don José, and all the protests went to the winds. And William Sturgis--the
young Bostonian who lived with us for so many years? I have not told you of him, and your mother
was too young to remember. Well, never mind. He would have taken Concha from California, given
her just a little of what she would have had as the wife of Rezánov--not in himself; he was
as ugly as my whiskers; but enough of the great world to satisfy many women, and no one could
deny that he was good and very clever. But to Concha he was a brother--no more. Perhaps she
did not even take the trouble to refuse him. It was a way she had. After a while he went home
to Boston and died of the climate. I was very sorry. He was one of us.

"And her intellect? Concha put it to sleep forever. She never read another book of travel,
of history, biography, memoirs, essays, poetry--romance she had never read, and although some
novels came to California in time she never opened them. It was peace she wanted, not the growing
mind and the roving imagination. She brought her conversation down to the level of the humblest,
and perhaps--who knows?--her thoughts. At all events, although the time came when she smiled
again, and was often gay when we were all together in the family--particularly with the children,
who came very fast, of course--well, she was then another Concha, not that brilliant dissatisfied
ambitious girl we had all known, who had thought the greatest gentleman from the Viceroy's
court not good enough to throw gold at her feet when she danced El Son.

"There were changes in her life. In 1814 Don José was made Gobernador Propietario of Lower
California. He took all of his unmarried children with him, and Concha thought it her duty
to go. They lived in Loreto until 1821. But Concha never ceased to pray that she might return
to California--we never looked upon that withered tongue of Mexico as California; and when
Don José died soon after his resignation, and her mother went to live with her married daughters,
Concha returned with the greatest happiness she had known, I think, since Rezánov went. Was
not California all that was left her?

"She lived in Santa Barbara for many years, in the house of Don José de la Guerra--in that
end room of the east wing. She had many relations, it is true, but Concha was always human
and liked relations better when she was not surrounded by them. Although she never joined in
any of the festivities of that gay time she was often with the Guerra family and seemed happy
enough to take up her old position as Beata among the Indians and children, until they built
a school for her in Monterey. How we used to wonder if she ever thought of Rezánov any more.
From the day the two years were over she never mentioned his name, and everybody respected
her reserve, even her parents. And she grew more and more reserved with the years, never speaking
of herself at all, except just after her return from Mexico. But somehow we knew. And did not
the very life she had chosen express it? Even the Church may not reach the secret places of
the soul, and who knows what heaven she may have found in hers? And now? I think purgatory
is not for Concha, and he was not bad as men go, and has had time to do his penance. It is
true the Church tells us there is no marrying in heaven--but, well, perhaps there is a union
for mated spirits of which the Church knows nothing. You saw her expression in her coffin.

"Well! The time arrived when we had a convent. Bishop Alemany came in 1850, and in the first
sermon he preached in Santa Barbara--I think it was his first in California--he announced that
he wished to found a convent. He was a Dominican, but one order was as another to Concha; she
had never been narrow in anything. As soon as the service was over, before he had time to leave
the church, she went to him and asked to be the first to join. He was glad enough, for he knew
of her and that no one could fill his convent as rapidly as she. Therefore was she the first
nun, the first to take holy vows, in our California. For a little, the convent was in the old
Hartnell house in Monterey, but Don Manuel Ximéno had built a great hotel while believing,
with all the rest, that Monterey would be the capital of the new California as of the old,
and he was glad to sell it to the Bishop. We were delighted--of course I followed when Concha
told me it was my vocation--that the Americans preferred Yerba Buena.

"Concha took her first vows in April, soon after the Bishop's arrival, choosing the name Sister
María, Dominica. On the 13th of April 1852 she took the black veil and perpetual vows. Of course
the convent had a school at once. Concha's school had been a convent of a sort and the Bishop
merely took it over. All the flower of California have been educated by Concha Argüello, including
Chonita Estenega who is so great a lady in Mexico today. Two years later we came here, and
here we shall stay, no doubt. I think Concha loved Benicia better than any part of California
she had known, for it was still California without too piercing reminders of the past: life
at the other Presidios and Missions was but the counterpart of our San Francisco, and here
the priests and military had never come. In this beautiful wild spot where the elk and the
antelope and the deer run about like rabbits, and you meet a bear if you go too far--Holy Mary!--where
she went sometimes in a boat among the tules on the river, and where one may believe the moon
lives in a silver lake in the old crater of Monte Diablo--Ay, it was different enough and might
bring peace to any heart. What she must have suffered for years in those familiar scenes! But
she never told. And now she lies here under her little cross and he in Krasnoiarsk--under a
stone shaped like an altar, they say. Well! who knows? That is all. I go in now; my old bones
ache with the night damp. But my mind is lighter, although never I shall speak of this again.
And do you not think of it any more. Curiosity and the world and such nonsense as love and
romance are not for us. Go to bed at once and tie a stocking round your throat that you have
not a frog in it tomorrow morning when you sing 'Glory be to God on High.' Buen Dias!"

THE FORD OF CRÈVECOEUR

BY

MARY AUSTIN

Reprinted from Out West by permission.

YES. I understand; you are M'siu the Notary, M'siu the Sheriff has told me. You are come to
hear how by the help of God I have killed Filon Geraud at the ford of Crèvecoeur. By the help
of God, yes. Think you if the devil had a hand in it, he would not have helped Filon? For he
was the devil's own, was Filon. He was big, he was beautiful, he had a way--but always there
was the devil's mark. I see that the first time ever I knew him at Agua Caliente. And Filon,
he know that I see, so he make like he not care; but I think he care a little, else why he
make for torment me all the time? Ever since I see him at that shearing at Agua Caliente eight,
ten year gone, he not like for let me be. I have been the best shearer in that shed, snip--snip--quick,
clean. Ah, it is beautiful! All the sheepmen like for have me shear their sheep. Filon is new
man at that shearing, Lebecque is just hire him then; but yes, M'siu, to see him walk about
that Agua Caliente you think he own all those sheep, all that range. Ah--he had a way! Pretty
soon that day Filon is hearing all sheepmen say that Raoul is the best shearer; then he come
lean on the rail by my shed and laugh softly like he talk with himself, and say, "See the little
man; see him shear." But me, I can no more. The shears turn in my hand so I make my sheep all
bleed same like one butcher. Then I look up and see the devil in Filon Geraud's eye. It is
always so after that, all those years until I kill Filon. If I make a little game of poker
with other shepherds then he walks along and say:

"Ah, you, Raoul, you is one sharp fellow. I not like for play with you." Then is my play all
gone bad.

But if Filon play, then he say, "Come, you little man, and bring me the good luck."

It is so, M'siu! If I go stand by that game, Filon is win, win all the time. That is because
of the devil. And if there are women--no, M'siu, there was never one woman. What would a shepherd,
whose work is always toward the hills, do with a woman? Is it to plant a vineyard that others
may drink wine? Ah, non! But me, at shearings and at Tres Piños where we pay the tax, there
I like to talk to pretty girl same as other shepherds, then Filon come make like he one gran'
friend. All the time he make say the compliments, he make me one mock. His eyes they laugh
always, that make women like to do what he say. But me, I have no chance.

