[Footnote 113: A haggis, (according to Burns, "the chieftain of the pudding-race,") is an olio,
composed of the liver, heart, &c. of a sheep, minced down with oatmeal, onions, and spices,
and boiled in the stomach of the animal, by way of bag. When the bag is cut, the contents,
(if this savoury dish be well made) should spout out with the heated air. This will explain
the allusion.]

[Footnote 114: A Muffled Man means a person in disguise; a very necessary precaution for the
guide's safety; for, could the outlaws have learned who played them this trick, beyond all
doubt it must have cost him dear.]

They had their scoutes on the tops of hills, on the English side, to give them warning if at
any time any power of men should come to surprise them. The three ambushes were safely laid,
without being discovered, and, about four o'clock in the morning, there were three hundred
horse, and a thousand foote,[115] that came directly to the place where the scoutes lay. They
gave the alarm; our men brake down as fast as they could into the wood. The outlawes thought
themselves safe, assuring themselves at any time to escape; but they were so strongly set upon,
on the English side, as they were forced to leave their goodes, and betake themselves to their
passages towards Scotland. There was presently five taken of the principall of them. The rest,
seeing themselves, as they thought, betrayed, retired into the thicke woodes and bogges,[116]
that our men durst not follow them for fear of loosing themselves. The principall of the five,
that were taken, were two of the eldest sonnes of Sim of Whitram. These five they brought to
mee to the fort, and a number of goodes, both of sheep and kine, which satisfied most part
of the countrey, that they had stolen them from.

[Footnote 115: From this it would appear, that Carey, although his constant attendants in his
fort consisted only of 200 horse, had, upon this occasion by the assistance, probably, of the
English and Scottish royal garrisons, collected a much greater force.]

[Footnote 116: There are now no trees in Liddesdale, except on the banks of the rivers, where
they are protected from the sheep. But the stumps and fallen timber, which are every where
found in the morasses, attest how well the country must have been wooded in former days.]

"The five, that were taken, were of great worth and value amongst them; insomuch, that, for
their liberty, I should have what conditions I should demand or desire. First, all English
prisoners were set at liberty. Then had I themselves, and most part of the gentlemen of the
Scottish side, so strictly bound in bondes to enter to mee, in fifteen dayes warning, any offendour,
that they durst not, for their lives, break any covenant that I made with them; and so, upon
these conditions, I set them at liberty, and was never after troubled with these kind of people.
Thus God blessed me in bringing this great trouble to so quiet an end; wee brake up our fort,
and every man retired to his owne house."--Carey's Memoirs, p. 151.

The people of Liddesdale have retained, by tradition, the remembrance of Carey's Raid, as they
call it. They tell, that, while he was besieging the outlaws in the Tarras they contrived,
by ways known only to themselves, to send a party into England, who plundered the warden's
lands. On their return, they sent Carey one of his own cows, telling him, that, fearing he
might fall short of provision during his visit to Scotland, they had taken the precaution of
sending him some English beef. The anecdote is too characteristic to be suppressed.

From this narrative, the power and strength of the Armstrongs, at this late period, appear
to have been very considerable. Even upon the death of Queen Elizabeth, this clan, associated
with other banditti of the west marches to the number of two or three hundred horse, entered
England in a hostile manner, and extended their ravages as far as Penrith. James VI., then
at Berwick, upon his journey to his new capital, detached a large force, under Sir William
Selby, captain of Berwick, to bring these depredators to order. Their raid, remarkable for
being the last of any note occurring in history, was avenged in an exemplary manner. Most of
the strong-holds upon the Liddel were razed to the foundation, and several of the principal
leaders executed at Carlisle; after which we find little mention of the Armstrongs in history.
The precautions, adopted by the Earl of Dunbar, to preserve peace on the borders, bore peculiarly
hard upon a body of men, long accustomed to the most ungoverned licence. They appear, in a
great measure, to have fallen victims to the strictness of the new enactments.--Ridpath, p.
703.--Stow, 819.--Laing, Vol. I. The lands, possessed by them in former days, have chiefly
come into the hands of the Buccleuch family, and of the Elliots; so that, with one or two exceptions,
we may say, that, in the country which this warlike clan once occupied, there is hardly left
a land-holder of the name. One of the last border reivers was, however, of this family, and
lived within the beginning of the last century. After having made himself dreaded over the
whole country, he at last came to the following end: One--, a man of large property, having
lost twelve cows in one night, raised the country of Tiviotdale, and traced the robbers into
Liddesdale, as far as the house of this Armstrong, commonly called Willie of Westburnflat,
from the place of his residence, on the banks of the Hermitage water. Fortunately for the pursuers
he was then asleep; so that he was secured, along with nine of his friends, without much resistance.
He was brought to trial at Selkirk; and, although no precise evidence was adduced to convict
him of the special fact (the cattle never having been recovered), yet the jury brought him
in guilty on his general character, or, as it is called in our law, on habite and repute. When
sentence was pronounced, Willie arose; and, seizing the oaken chair in which he was placed,
broke it into pieces by main strength, and offered to his companions, who were involved in
the same doom, that, if they would stand behind him, he would fight his way out of Selkirk
with these weapons. But they held his hands, and besought him to let them die like Christians.
They were accordingly executed in form of law. This was the last trial at Selkirk. The people
of Liddesdale, who (perhaps not erroneously) still consider the sentence as iniquitous, remarked,
that--, the prosecutor, never throve afterwards, but came to beggary and ruin, with his whole
family.

Johnie Armstrong, of Gilnockie, the hero of the following ballad, is a noted personage, both
in history and tradition. He was, it would seem from the ballad, a brother of the laird of
Mangertoun, chief of the name. His place of residence (now a roofless tower) was at the Hollows,
a few miles from Langholm, where its ruins still serve to adorn a scene, which, in natural
beauty, has few equals in Scotland. At the head of a desperate band of freebooters, this Armstrong
is said to have spread the terror of his name almost as far as Newcastle, and to have levied
black mail, or protection and forbearance money, for many miles around. James V., of whom it
was long remembered by his grateful people, that he made the "rush-bush keep the cow," about
1529, undertook an expedition through the border counties, to suppress the turbulent spirit
of the marchmen. But, before setting out upon his journey, he took the precaution of imprisoning
the different border chieftains, who were the chief protectors of the marauders. The Earl of
Bothwell was forfeited, and confined in Edinburgh castle. The lords of Home and Maxwell, the
lairds of Buccleuch, Fairniherst, and Johnston, with many others, were also committed to ward.
Cockburn of Henderland, and Adam Scott of Tushielaw, called the King of the Border, were publicly
executed.--Lesley, p. 430. The king then marched rapidly forward, at the head of a flying army
of ten thousand men, through Ettrick Forest, and Ewsdale. The evil genius of our Johnie Armstrong,
or, as others say, the private advice of some courtiers, prompted him to present himself before
James, at the head of thirty-six horse, arrayed in all the pomp of border chivalry, Pitscottie
uses nearly the words of the ballad, in describing the splendour of his equipment, and his
high expectations of favour from the king. "But James, looking upon him sternly, said to his
attendants, 'What wants that knave that a king should have?' and ordered him and his followers
to instant execution."--"But John Armstrong," continues this minute historian, "made great
offers to the king. That he should sustain himself, with forty gentlemen, ever ready at his
service, on their own cost, without wronging any Scottishman: Secondly, that there was not
a subject in England, duke, earl, or baron, but, within a certain day, he should bring him
to his majesty, either quick or dead.[117] At length he, seeing no hope of favour, said very
proudly, 'It is folly to seek grace at a graceless face; but,' said he, 'had I known this,
I should have lived upon the borders in despite of King Harry and you both; for I know King
Harry would down-weigh my best horse with gold, to know that I were condemned to die this day.'--Pitscottie's
History, p. 145. Johnie, with all his retinue, was accordingly hanged upon growing trees, at
a place called Carlenrig chapel, about ten miles above Hawick, on the high road to Langholm.
The country people believe, that, to manifest the injustice of the execution, the trees withered
away. Armstrong and his followers were buried in a deserted church-yard, where their graves
are still shewn.

[Footnote 117: The borderers, from their habits of life, were capable of most extraordinary
exploits of this nature. In the year 1511, Sir Robert Ker of Cessford, warden of the middle
marches of Scotland, was murdered at a border-meeting, by the bastard Heron, Starhead, and
Lilburn. The English monarch delivered up Lilburn to justice in Scotland, but Heron and Starhead
escaped. The latter chose his residence in the very centre of England, to baffle the vengeance
of Ker's clan and followers. Two dependants of the deceased, called Tait, were deputed by Andrew
Ker of Cessford to revenge his father's murder. They travelled through England in various disguises
till they discovered the place of Starhead's retreat, murdered him in his bed, and brought
his head in triumph to Edinburgh, where Ker caused it to be exposed at the cross. The bastard
Heron would have shared the same fate, had he not spread abroad a report of his having died
of the plague, and caused his funeral obsequies to be performed.--Ridpath's History, p. 481.--See
also Metrical Account of the Battle of Flodden, published by the Rev. Mr. Lambe.]

As this border hero was a person of great note in his way, he is frequently alluded to by the
writers of the time. Sir David Lindsay of the Mount, in the curious play published by Mr. Pinkerton,
from the Bannatyne MS., introduces a pardoner, or knavish dealer in reliques, who produces,
among his holy rarities--

  --The cordis, baith grit and lang,
  Quhilt hangit Johnnie Armistrang,
  Of gude hempt, soft and sound,
  Gude haly pepill, I stand ford,
  Wha'evir beis hangit in this cord,
  Neidis nevir to be drowned!

Pinkerton's Scottish Poems, Vol. II. p. 69.

In The Complaynt of Scotland, John Armistrangis's dance, mentioned as a popular tune, has probably
some reference to our hero.

The common people of the high parts of Tiviotdale, Liddesdale, and the country adjacent, hold
the memory of Johnie Armstrong in very high respect. They affirm also, that one of his attendants
broke through the king's guard, and carried to Gilnockie Tower the news of the bloody catastrophe.

This song was first published by Allan Ramsay, in his Evergreen, who says, he copied it from
the mouth of a gentleman, called Armstrong, who was in the sixth generation from this John.
The reciter assured him, that this was the genuine old ballad; the common one false. By the
common one, Ramsay means an English ballad upon the same subject, but differing in various
particulars, which is published in Mr. Ritson's English Songs, Vol. II. It is fortunate for
the admirers of the old ballad, that it did not fall into Ramsay's hands, when he was equipping
with new sets of words the old Scottish tunes in his Tea-Table Miscellany. Since his time it
has been often reprinted.

JOHNIE ARMSTRANG

       *       *       *       *       *

  Sum speikis of lords, sum speikis of lairds,
  And sick lyke men of hie degrie;
  Of a gentleman I sing a sang,
  Sum tyme called laird of Gilnockie.

  The king he wrytes a luving letter,
  With his ain hand sae tenderly,
  And he hath sent it to Johnie Armstrang,
  To cum and speik with him speedily.

  The Eliots and Armstrangs did convene;
  They were a gallant cumpanie--
  "We'll ride and meit our lawful king,
  And bring him safe to Gilnockie."

  "Make kinnen[118] and capon ready then,
  And venison in great plentie;
  We'll wellcum here our royal king;
  I hope he'll dine at Gilnockie!"

  They ran their horse on the Langhome howm,
  And brak their speirs wi' mickle main;
  The ladies lukit frae their loft windows--
  "God bring our men weel back agen!"

  When Johnie cam before the king,
  Wi' a' his men sae brave to see,
  The king he movit his bonnet to him;
  He ween'd he was a king as well as he.

  "May I find grace, my sovereign liege,
  Grace for my loyal men and me?
  For my name it is Johnie Armstrang,
  And subject of your's, my liege," said he.

  "Away, away, thou traitor strang!
  Out o' my sight soon may'st thou be!
  I grantit nevir a traitor's life,
  And now I'll not begin wi' thee."

  "Grant me my life, my liege, my king!
  "And a bonny gift I'll gie to thee--
  "Full four and twenty milk-white steids,
  "Were a' foaled in ae yeir to me.

  "I'll gie thee a' these milk-white steids,
  "That prance and nicker[119] at a speir;
  "And as mickle gude Inglish gilt[120],
  "As four of their braid backs dow[121] bear."

  "Away, away, thou traitor strang!
  "Out o' my sight soon may'st thou be!
  "And a great gift I'll gie to thee--
  "Bauld four and twenty sister's sons,
  "Sall for thee fecht, tho' a' should flee!"
  "And a brave gift I'll gie to thee--
  "All between heir and Newcastle town
  "Sall pay their yeirly rent to thee."

  "Ye lied[123], ye lied, now king," he says.
  "Altho' a king and prince ye be!
  For I've luved naething in my life,
  "I weel dare say it, but honesty--

  "Save a fat horse," and a fair woman,
  "Twa bonny dogs to kill a deir;
  "But England suld have found me meal and mault,
  "Gif I had lived this hundred yeir!

  "Sche suld have found me meal and mault,
  "And beif and mutton in a' plentie;
  "But nevir a Scots wyfe could have said,
  "That e'er I skaithed her a pure flee.

  "To seik het water beneith cauld ice,
  "Surely it is a greit folie--
  "I have asked grace at a graceless face,
  "But there is mine for my men and me!

  "But, had I kenn'd ere I cam frae hame,
  "How thou unkind wadst been to me!
  "I wad have keepit the border side,
  "In spite of al thy force and thee.

  "Wist England's king that I was ta'en,
  "O gin a blythe man he wad be!
  "For anes I slew his sister's son,
  "And on his breist bane brake a trie."

  John wore a girdle about his middle,
  Imbroidered ower wi' burning gold,
  Bespangled wi' the same metal;
  Maist beautiful was to behold.

  There hang nine targats[124] at Johnie's hat,
  And ilk are worth three hundred pound--
  "What wants that knave that a king suld have,
  But the sword of honour and the crown!

  "O whair got thou these targats, Johnie,
  "That blink[125] sae brawly abune thy brie?"
  "I gat them in the field fechting,
  "Where, cruel king, thou durst not be.

  "Had I my horse, and harness gude,
  "And riding as I wont to be,
  "It suld have been tald this hundred yeir,
  "The meeting of my king and me!

  "God be with thee, Kirsty,[126] my brother!
  "Lang live thou laird of Mangertoun!
  "Lang may'st thou live on the border syde,
  "Ere thou see thy brother ride up and down!

  "Farewell! my bonny Gilnock hall,
  "Where on Esk side thou stand est stout!
  "Gif I had lived but seven yeirs mair,
  "I wad hae gilt thee round about."

  John murdered was at Carlinrigg,
  And all his gallant cumpanie;
  But Scotland's heart was ne'er sae wae,
  To see sae mony brave men die--

  Because they saved their countrey deir,
  Frae Englishmen! Nane were sae bauld,
  Whyle Johnie lived on the border syde,
  Nane of them durst cum neir his hauld.

[Footnote 118: Kinnen--Rabbits.]

[Footnote 119: Nicker--Neigh.]

[Footnote 120: Gilt--Gold.]

[Footnote 121: Dow--Able to.]

[Footnote 122: Ganging--Going.]

[Footnote 123: Lied--Lye.]

[Footnote 124: Targats--Tassels.]

[Footnote 125: Blink sae brawly--Glance so bravely.]

[Footnote 126: Christopher.]

SUPPLEMENT TO THE BALLAD OF JOHNIE ARMSTRANG.

       *       *       *       *       *

The editor believes, his readers will not be displeased to see a Bond of Manrent, granted by
this border freebooter to the Scottish warden of the west marches, in return for the gift of
a feudal casualty of certain lauds particularized. It is extracted from Syme's Collection of
Old Writings, MS. penes Dr. Robert Anderson, of Edinburgh.

BOND OF MANRENT.

