This unexpected turn in the debate was quickly communicated to Adrian. He hurried in, and witnessed
the termination of my impassioned harangue. I did not see him: my soul was in my words,--my
eyes could not perceive that which was; while a vision of Adrian's form, tainted by pestilence,
and sinking in death, floated before them. He seized my hand, as I concluded-- "Unkind!" he
cried, "you have betrayed me!" then, springing forwards, with the air of one who had a right
to command, he claimed the place of deputy as his own. He had bought it, he said, with danger,
and paid for it with toil. His ambition rested there; and, after an interval devoted to the
interests of his country, was I to step in, and reap the profit? Let them remember what London
had been when he arrived: the panic that prevailed brought famine, while every moral and legal
tie was loosened. He had restored order--this had been a work which required perseverance,
patience, and energy; and he had neither slept nor waked but for the good of his country.--Would
they dare wrong him thus? Would they wrest his hard-earned reward from him, to bestow it on
one, who, never having mingled in public life, would come a tyro to the craft, in which he
was an adept. He demanded the place of deputy as his right. Ryland had shewn that he preferred
him. Never before had he, who was born even to the inheritance of the throne of England, never
had he asked favour or honour from those now his equals, but who might have been his subjects.
Would they refuse him? Could they thrust back from the path of distinction and laudable ambition,
the heir of their ancient kings, and heap another disappointment on a fallen house.

No one had ever before heard Adrian allude to the rights of his ancestors. None had ever before
suspected, that power, or the suffrage of the many, could in any manner become dear to him.
He had begun his speech with vehemence; he ended with unassuming gentleness, making his appeal
with the same humility, as if he had asked to be the first in wealth, honour, and power among
Englishmen, and not, as was the truth, to be the foremost in the ranks of loathsome toils and
inevitable death. A murmur of approbation rose after his speech. "Oh, do not listen to him,"
I cried, "he speaks false--false to himself,"--I was interrupted: and, silence being restored,
we were ordered, as was the custom, to retire during the decision of the house. I fancied that
they hesitated, and that there was some hope for me--I was mistaken--hardly had we quitted
the chamber, before Adrian was recalled, and installed in his office of Lord Deputy to the
Protector.

We returned together to the palace. "Why, Lionel," said Adrian, "what did you intend? you could
not hope to conquer, and yet you gave me the pain of a triumph over my dearest friend."

"This is mockery," I replied, "you devote yourself,--you, the adored brother of Idris, the
being, of all the world contains, dearest to our hearts--you devote yourself to an early death.
I would have prevented this; my death would be a small evil--or rather I should not die; while
you cannot hope to escape."

"As to the likelihood of escaping," said Adrian, "ten years hence the cold stars may shine
on the graves of all of us; but as to my peculiar liability to infection, I could easily prove,
both logically and physically, that in the midst of contagion I have a better chance of life
than you.

"This is my post: I was born for this--to rule England in anarchy, to save her in danger--to
devote myself for her. The blood of my forefathers cries aloud in my veins, and bids me be
first among my countrymen. Or, if this mode of speech offend you, let me say, that my mother,
the proud queen, instilled early into me a love of distinction, and all that, if the weakness
of my physical nature and my peculiar opinions had not prevented such a design, might have
made me long since struggle for the lost inheritance of my race. But now my mother, or, if
you will, my mother's lessons, awaken within me. I cannot lead on to battle; I cannot, through
intrigue and faithlessness rear again the throne upon the wreck of English public spirit. But
I can be the first to support and guard my country, now that terrific disasters and ruin have
laid strong hands upon her.

"That country and my beloved sister are all I have. I will protect the first--the latter I
commit to your charge. If I survive, and she be lost, I were far better dead. Preserve her--for
her own sake I know that you will--if you require any other spur, think that, in preserving
her, you preserve me. Her faultless nature, one sum of perfections, is wrapt up in her affections--if
they were hurt, she would droop like an unwatered floweret, and the slightest injury they receive
is a nipping frost to her. Already she fears for us. She fears for the children she adores,
and for you, the father of these, her lover, husband, protector; and you must be near her to
support and encourage her. Return to Windsor then, my brother; for such you are by every tie--fill
the double place my absence imposes on you, and let me, in all my sufferings here, turn my
eyes towards that dear seclusion, and say--There is peace."

[1] Shakespeare's Sonnets.

CHAPTER VII.

I DID proceed to Windsor, but not with the intention of remaining there. I went but to obtain
the consent of Idris, and then to return and take my station beside my unequalled friend; to
share his labours, and save him, if so it must be, at the expence of my life. Yet I dreaded
to witness the anguish which my resolve might excite in Idris. I had vowed to my own heart
never to shadow her countenance even with transient grief, and should I prove recreant at the
hour of greatest need? I had begun my journey with anxious haste; now I desired to draw it
out through the course of days and months. I longed to avoid the necessity of action; I strove
to escape from thought--vainly--futurity, like a dark image in a phantasmagoria, came nearer
and more near, till it clasped the whole earth in its shadow.

A slight circumstance induced me to alter my usual route, and to return home by Egham and Bishopgate.
I alighted at Perdita's ancient abode, her cottage; and, sending forward the carriage, determined
to walk across the park to the castle. This spot, dedicated to sweetest recollections, the
deserted house and neglected garden were well adapted to nurse my melancholy. In our happiest
days, Perdita had adorned her cottage with every aid art might bring, to that which nature
had selected to favour. In the same spirit of exaggeration she had, on the event of her separation
from Raymond, caused it to be entirely neglected. It was now in ruin: the deer had climbed
the broken palings, and reposed among the flowers; grass grew on the threshold, and the swinging
lattice creaking to the wind, gave signal of utter desertion. The sky was blue above, and the
air impregnated with fragrance by the rare flowers that grew among the weeds. The trees moved
overhead, awakening nature's favourite melody--but the melancholy appearance of the choaked
paths, and weed-grown flower-beds, dimmed even this gay summer scene. The time when in proud
and happy security we assembled at this cottage, was gone--soon the present hours would join
those past, and shadows of future ones rose dark and menacing from the womb of time, their
cradle and their bier. For the first time in my life I envied the sleep of the dead, and thought
with pleasure of one's bed under the sod, where grief and fear have no power. I passed through
the gap of the broken paling--I felt, while I disdained, the choaking tears--I rushed into
the depths of the forest. O death and change, rulers of our life, where are ye, that I may
grapple with you! What was there in our tranquillity, that excited your envy--in our happiness,
that ye should destroy it? We were happy, loving, and beloved; the horn of Amalthea contained
no blessing unshowered upon us, but, alas!

  la fortuna
  deidad barbara importuna,
  oy cadaver y ayer flor,
  no permanece jamas![1]

As I wandered on thus ruminating, a number of country people passed me. They seemed full of
careful thought, and a few words of their conversation that reached me, induced me to approach
and make further enquiries. A party of people flying from London, as was frequent in those
days, had come up the Thames in a boat. No one at Windsor would afford them shelter; so, going
a little further up, they remained all night in a deserted hut near Bolter's lock. They pursued
their way the following morning, leaving one of their company behind them, sick of the plague.
This circumstance once spread abroad, none dared approach within half a mile of the infected
neighbourhood, and the deserted wretch was left to fight with disease and death in solitude,
as he best might. I was urged by compassion to hasten to the hut, for the purpose of ascertaining
his situation, and administering to his wants.

As I advanced I met knots of country-people talking earnestly of this event: distant as they
were from the apprehended contagion, fear was impressed on every countenance. I passed by a
group of these terrorists, in a lane in the direct road to the hut. One of them stopped me,
and, conjecturing that I was ignorant of the circumstance, told me not to go on, for that an
infected person lay but at a short distance.

"I know it," I replied, "and I am going to see in what condition the poor fellow is."

A murmur of surprise and horror ran through the assembly. I continued:-- "This poor wretch
is deserted, dying, succourless; in these unhappy times, God knows how soon any or all of us
may be in like want. I am going to do, as I would be done by."

"But you will never be able to return to the Castle--Lady Idris--his children--" in confused
speech were the words that struck my ear.

"Do you not know, my friends," I said, "that the Earl himself, now Lord Protector, visits daily,
not only those probably infected by this disease, but the hospitals and pest houses, going
near, and even touching the sick? yet he was never in better health. You labour under an entire
mistake as to the nature of the plague; but do not fear, I do not ask any of you to accompany
me, nor to believe me, until I return safe and sound from my patient."

So I left them, and hurried on. I soon arrived at the hut: the door was ajar. I entered, and
one glance assured me that its former inhabitant was no more--he lay on a heap of straw, cold
and stiff; while a pernicious effluvia filled the room, and various stains and marks served
to shew the virulence of the disorder.

I had never before beheld one killed by pestilence. While every mind was full of dismay at
its effects, a craving for excitement had led us to peruse De Foe's account, and the masterly
delineations of the author of Arthur Mervyn. The pictures drawn in these books were so vivid,
that we seemed to have experienced the results depicted by them. But cold were the sensations
excited by words, burning though they were, and describing the death and misery of thousands,
compared to what I felt in looking on the corpse of this unhappy stranger. This indeed was
the plague. I raised his rigid limbs, I marked the distortion of his face, and the stony eyes
lost to perception. As I was thus occupied, chill horror congealed my blood, making my flesh
quiver and my hair to stand on end. Half insanely I spoke to the dead. So the plague killed
you, I muttered. How came this? Was the coming painful? You look as if the enemy had tortured,
before he murdered you. And now I leapt up precipitately, and escaped from the hut, before
nature could revoke her laws, and inorganic words be breathed in answer from the lips of the
departed.

On returning through the lane, I saw at a distance the same assemblage of persons which I had
left. They hurried away, as soon as they saw me; my agitated mien added to their fear of coming
near one who had entered within the verge of contagion.

At a distance from facts one draws conclusions which appear infallible, which yet when put
to the test of reality, vanish like unreal dreams. I had ridiculed the fears of my countrymen,
when they related to others; now that they came home to myself, I paused. The Rubicon, I felt,
was passed; and it behoved me well to reflect what I should do on this hither side of disease
and danger. According to the vulgar superstition, my dress, my person, the air I breathed,
bore in it mortal danger to myself and others. Should I return to the Castle, to my wife and
children, with this taint upon me? Not surely if I were infected; but I felt certain that I
was not--a few hours would determine the question--I would spend these in the forest, in reflection
on what was to come, and what my future actions were to be. In the feeling communicated to
me by the sight of one struck by the plague, I forgot the events that had excited me so strongly
in London; new and more painful prospects, by degrees were cleared of the mist which had hitherto
veiled them. The question was no longer whether I should share Adrian's toils and danger; but
in what manner I could, in Windsor and the neighbourhood, imitate the prudence and zeal which,
under his government, produced order and plenty in London, and how, now pestilence had spread
more widely, I could secure the health of my own family.

I spread the whole earth out as a map before me. On no one spot of its surface could I put
my finger and say, here is safety. In the south, the disease, virulent and immedicable, had
nearly annihilated the race of man; storm and inundation, poisonous winds and blights, filled
up the measure of suffering. In the north it was worse--the lesser population gradually declined,
and famine and plague kept watch on the survivors, who, helpless and feeble, were ready to
fall an easy prey into their hands.

I contracted my view to England. The overgrown metropolis, the great heart of mighty Britain,
was pulseless. Commerce had ceased. All resort for ambition or pleasure was cut off--the streets
were grass-grown--the houses empty--the few, that from necessity remained, seemed already branded
with the taint of inevitable pestilence. In the larger manufacturing towns the same tragedy
was acted on a smaller, yet more disastrous scale. There was no Adrian to superintend and direct,
while whole flocks of the poor were struck and killed. Yet we were not all to die. No truly,
though thinned, the race of man would continue, and the great plague would, in after years,
become matter of history and wonder. Doubtless this visitation was for extent unexampled--more
need that we should work hard to dispute its progress; ere this men have gone out in sport,
and slain their thousands and tens of thousands; but now man had become a creature of price;
the life of one of them was of more worth than the so called treasures of kings. Look at his
thought-endued countenance, his graceful limbs, his majestic brow, his wondrous mechanism--the
type and model of this best work of God is not to be cast aside as a broken vessel--he shall
be preserved, and his children and his children's children carry down the name and form of
man to latest time.

