PREFATORY NOTE.

The present volume is an elaboration and amplification of lectures on "The Child in Folk-Thought,"
delivered by the writer at the summer school held at Clark University in 1894. In connection
with the interesting topic of "Child-Study" which now engages so much the attention of teachers
and parents, an attempt is here made to indicate some of the chief child-activities among primitive
peoples and to point out in some respects their survivals in the social institutions and culture-movements
of to-day. The point of view to be kept in mind is the child and what he has done, or is said
to have done, in all ages and among all races of men.

For all statements and citations references are given, and the writer has made every effort
to place himself in the position of those whose opinion he records,--receiving and reporting
without distortion or alteration.

He begs to return to his colleagues in the University, especially to its distinguished president,
the genius of the movement for "Child-Study" in America, and to the members of the summer school
of 1894, whose kind appreciation of his efforts has mainly led to the publication of this work,
his sincerest gratitude for the sympathy and encouragement which they have so often exhibited
and expressed with regard to the present and allied subjects of study and investigation in
the field of Anthropology, pedagogical and psychological.

A. F. CHAMBERLAIN

CLARK UNIVERSITY, WORCESTER, Mass., April, 1895.

CONTENTS.

I. CHILD-STUDY

II. THE CHILD'S TRIBUTE TO THE MOTHER

III. THE CHILD'S TRIBUTE TO THE MOTHER (Continued)

IV. THE CHILD'S TRIBUTE TO THE FATHER

V. THE NAME CHILD

VI. THE CHILD IN THE PRIMITIVE LABORATORY

VII. THE BRIGHT SIDE OF CHILD-LIFE: PARENTAL AFFECTION

VIII. CHILDHOOD THE GOLDEN AGE

IX. CHILDREN'S FOOD

X. CHILDREN'S SOULS

XI. CHILDREN'S FLOWERS, PLANTS, AND TREES

XII. CHILDREN'S ANIMALS, BIRDS, ETC.

XIII. CHILD-LIFE AND EDUCATION IN GENERAL

XIV. THE CHILD AS MEMBER AND BUILDER OF SOCIETY

XV. THE CHILD AS LINGUIST

XVI. THE CHILD AS ACTOR AND INVENTOR

XVII. THE CHILD AS POET AND MUSICIAN

XVIII. THE CHILD AS TEACHER AND WISEACRE

XIX. THE CHILD AS JUDGE

XX. THE CHILD AS ORACLE-KEEPER AND ORACLE-INTERPRETER

XXI. THE CHILD AS WEATHER-MAKER

XXII. THE CHILD AS HEALER AND PHYSICIAN

XXIII. THE CHILD AS SHAMAN AND PRIEST

XXIV. THE CHILD AS HERO, ADVENTURER, ETC.

XXV. THE CHILD AS FETICH AND DIVINITY

XXVI. THE CHILD AS GOD: THE CHRIST-CHILD

XXVII. PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT PARENTS, FATHER AND MOTHER

XXVIII. PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT THE CHILD, MANKIND, GENIUS

XXIX. PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT MOTHER AND CHILD

XXX. PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT FATHER AND CHILD

XXXI. PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT CHILDHOOD, YOUTH, AND AGE

XXXII. PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT THE CHILD AND CHILDHOOD

INDEX TO PROVERBS

XXXIII. CONCLUSION

BIBLIOGRAPHY

SUBJECT-INDEX TO SECTION A OF BIBLIOGRAPHY

SUBJECT-INDEX TO SECTION B OF BIBLIOGRAPHY

INDEX I.--AUTHORITIES

INDEX II.--PLACES, PEOPLES, TRIBES, LANGUAGES

INDEX III.--SUBJECTS

CHAPTER I.

CHILD-STUDY.

Oneness with Nature is the glory of Childhood; oneness with Childhood is the glory of the Teacher.--G.
Stanley Hall.

  Homes ont l'estre comme metaulx,
  Vie et augment des vegetaulx,
  Instinct et sens comme les bruts,
  Esprit comme anges en attributs.
  [Man has as attributes: Being like metals,
  Life and growth like plants,
  Instinct and sense like animals,
  Mind like angels.]--Jehan de Meung.

The Child is Father of the Man.--Wordsworth.

And he [Jesus] called to him a little child, and set him in the midst of them.--Matthew xviii. 2.

It was an Oriental poet who sang:--

  "On parent knees, a naked, new-born child,
  Weeping thou sat'st, while all around thee smiled;
  So live, that, sinking in thy last, long sleep,
  Calm thou mayst smile, while all around thee weep,"

and not so very long ago even the anthropologist seemed satisfied with the approximation of
childhood and old age,--one glance at the babe in the cradle, one look at the graybeard on
his deathbed, gave all the knowledge desired or sought for. Man, big, burly, healthy, omniscient,
was the subject of all investigation. But now a change has come over the face of things. As
did that great teacher of old, so, in our day, has one of the ministers of science "called
to him a little child and set him in the midst of them,"--greatest in the kingdom of anthropology
is assuredly that little child, as we were told centuries ago, by the prophet of Galilee, that
he is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. The child, together with woman, who, in so many respects
in which the essential human characteristics are concerned, so much resembles him, is now beyond
doubt the most prominent figure in individual, as well as in racial, anthropology. Dr. D. G.
Brinton, in an appreciative notice of the recent volume on Man and Woman, by Havelock Ellis,
in which the secondary sexual differences between the male and the female portions of the human
race are so well set forth and discussed, remarks: "The child, the infant in fact, alone possesses
in their fulness 'the chief distinctive characters of humanity. The highest human types, as
represented in men of genius, present a striking approximation to the child-type. In man, from
about the third year onward, further growth is to some extent growth in degeneration and senility.'
Hence the true tendency of the progressive evolution of the race is to become child-like, to
become feminine." (Psych. Rev. I. 533.)

As Dr. Brinton notes, in this sense women are leading evolution--Goethe was right: Das Ewig-weibliche
zieht uns hinan. But here belongs also the child-human, and he was right in very truth who
said: "A little child shall lead them." What new meaning flashes into the words of the Christ,
who, after declaring that "the kingdom of God cometh not with observation: neither shall they
say, Lo, here! or, There! for lo, the kingdom of God is within you," in rebuke of the Pharisees,
in rebuke of his own disciples, "called to him a little child and set him in the midst of them,
and said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye turn, and become as little children, ye shall in
no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven." Even physically, the key to the kingdom of heaven
lies in childhood's keeping.

Vast indeed is now the province of him who studies the child. In Somatology,--the science of
the physical characteristics and constitution of the body and its members,--he seeks not alone
to observe the state and condition of the skeleton and its integuments during life, but also
to ascertain their nature and character in the period of prenatal existence, as well as when
causes natural, or unnatural, disease, the exhaustion of old age, violence, or the like, have
induced the dissolution of death.

In Linguistics and Philology, he endeavours to discover the essence and import of those manifold,
inarticulate, or unintelligible sounds, which, with the long flight of time, develop into the
splendidly rounded periods of a Webster or a Gladstone, or swell nobly in the rhythmic beauties
of a Swinburne or a Tennyson.

In Art and Technology, he would fain fathom the depths of those rude scribblings and quaint
efforts at delineation, whence, in the course of ages, have been evolved the wonders of the
alphabet and the marvellous creations of a Rubens and an Angelo.

In Psychology, he seeks to trace, in childish prattlings and lore of the nursery, the far-off
beginnings of mythology, philosophy, religion. Beside the stories told to children in explanation
of the birth of a sister or a brother, and the children's own imaginings concerning the little
new-comer, he may place the speculations of sages and theologians of all races and of all ages
concerning birth, death, immortality, and the future life, which, growing with the centuries,
have ripened into the rich and wholesome dogmas of the church.

Ethnology, with its broad sweep over ages and races of men, its
searchings into the origins of nations and of civilizations, illumined
by the light of Evolution, suggests that in the growth of the child from
helpless infancy to adolescence, and through the strong and trying
development of manhood to the idiosyncrasies of disease and senescence,
we have an epitome in miniature of the life of the race; that in
primitive tribes, and in those members of our civilized communities,
whose growth upward and onward has been retarded by inherited tendencies
which it has been out of their power to overcome, or by a milieu
and environment, the control and subjugation of which required faculties
and abilities they did not possess, we see, as it were, ethnic children;
that in the nursery, the asylum, the jail, the mountain fastnesses of
earth, or the desert plains, peopled by races whose ways are not our
ways, whose criteria of culture are far below ours, we have a panorama
of what has transpired since, alone and face to face with a new
existence, the first human beings partook of the fruit of the tree of
knowledge and became conscious of the great gulf, which, after
millenniums of struggle and fierce competition, had opened between the
new, intelligent, speaking anthropoids and their fellows who straggled
so far behind.
 ["The childhood of to-day
   Is the manhood of to-morrow,
   The childhood of to-day
   Is the manhood of yesterday."]

In brief, the child is father of the man and brother of the race.

In all ages, and with every people, the arcana of life and death, the mysteries of birth, childhood,
puberty, adolescence, maidenhood, womanhood, manhood, motherhood, fatherhood, have called forth
the profoundest thought and speculation. From the contemplation of these strange phenomena
sprang the esoteric doctrines of Egypt and the East, with their horrible accompaniments of
vice and depravity; the same thoughts, low and terrible, hovered before the devotees of Moloch
and Cybele, when Carthage sent her innocent boys to the furnace, a sacrifice to the king of
gods, and Asia Minor offered up the virginity of her fairest daughters to the first-comer at
the altars of the earth-mother. Purified and ennobled by long centuries of development and
unfolding, the blossoming of such conceptions is seen in the great sacrifice which the Son
of Man made for the children of men, and in the cardinal doctrine of the religion which he
founded,--"Ye must be born again,"--the regeneration, which alone gave entrance into Paradise.

The Golden Age of the past of which, through the long lapse of years, dreamers have dreamt
and poets sung, and the Golden City, glimpses of whose glorious portal have flashed through
the prayers and meditations of the rapt enthusiast, seem but one in their foundation, as the
Eden of the world's beginning and the heaven that shall open to men's eyes, when time shall
be no more, are but closely allied phases, nay, but one and the same phase, rather, of the
world-old thought,--the ethnic might have been, the ought to be of all the ages. The imagined,
retrospect childhood of the past is twin-born with the ideal, prospective childhood of the
world to come. Here the savage and the philosopher, the child and the genius, meet; the wisdom
of the first and of the last century of human existence is at one. Childhood is the mirror
in which these reflections are cast,--the childhood of the race is depicted with the same colours
as the childhood of the individual. We can read a larger thought into the words of Hartley
Coleridge:--

 "Oh what a wilderness were this sad world,
  If man were always man, and never child."

Besides the anthropometric and psycho-physical investigations of the child carried on in the
scientific laboratory with exact instruments and unexceptionable methods, there is another
field of "Child-Study" well worthy our attention for the light it can shed upon some of the
dark places in the wide expanse of pedagogical science and the art of education.

Its laboratory of research has been the whole wide world, the experimenters and recorders the
primitive peoples of all races and all centuries,--fathers and mothers whom the wonderland
of parenthood encompassed and entranced; the subjects, the children of all the generations
of mankind.

The consideration of "The Child in Folk-Thought,"--what tribe upon tribe, age after age, has
thought about, ascribed to, dreamt of, learned from, taught to, the child, the parent-lore
of the human race, in its development through savagery and barbarism to civilization and culture,--can
bring to the harvest of pedagogy many a golden sheaf.

The works of Dr. Ploss, Das kleine Kind, Das Kind, and Das Weib, encyclopadic in character
as the two last are, covering a vast field of research relating to the anatomy, physiology,
hygiene, dietetics, and ceremonial treatment of child and mother, of girl and boy, all over
the world, and forming a huge mine of information concerning child-birth, motherhood, sex-phenomena,
and the like, have still left some aspects of the anthropology of childhood practically untouched.
In English, the child has, as yet, found no chronicler and historian such as Ploss. The object
of the present writer is to treat of the child from a point of view hitherto entirely neglected,
to exhibit what the world owes to childhood and the motherhood and the fatherhood which it
occasions, to indicate the position of the child in the march of civilization among the various
races of men, and to estimate the influence which the child-idea and its accompaniments have
had upon sociology, mythology, religion, language; for the touch of the child is upon them
all, and the debt of humanity to the little children has not yet been told. They have figured
in the world's history and its folk-lore as magi and "medicine-men," as priests and oracle-keepers,
as physicians and healers, as teachers and judges, as saints, heroes, discoverers, and inventors,
as musicians and poets, actors and labourers in many fields of human activity, have been compared
to the foolish and to the most wise, have been looked upon as fetiches and as gods, as the
fit sacrifice to offended Heaven, and as the saviours and regenerators of mankind. The history
of the child in human society and of the human ideas and institutions which have sprung from
its consideration can have here only a beginning. This book is written in full sympathy with
the thought expressed in the words of the Latin poet Juvenal: Maxima debetur pueris reverentia,
and in the declaration of Jean Paul: "I love God and every little child."

CHAPTER II.

THE CHILD'S TRIBUTE TO THE MOTHER.

A good mother is worth a hundred schoolmasters.--English Proverb.

The first poet, the first priest, was the first mother. The first empire was a woman and her
children.--O. T. Mason.

When society, under the guidance of the "fathers of the church," went almost to destruction
in the dark ages, it was the "mothers of the people" who saved it and set it going on the new
right path. --Zmigrodski (adapted).

The story of civilization is the story of the mother. --Zmigrodski.

One mother is more venerable than a thousand fathers. --Laws of Manu.

If the world were put into one scale, and my mother into the other, the world would kick the
beam.--Lord Langdale.

Names of the Mother.

In A Song of Life,--a book in which the topic of sex is treated with such delicate skill,--occurs
this sentence: "The motherhood of mammalian life is the most sacred thing in physical existence"
(120. 92), and Professor Drummond closes his Lowell Institute Lectures on the Evolution of
Man in the following words: "It is a fact to which too little significance has been given,
that the whole work of organic nature culminates in the making of Mothers--that the animal
series end with a group which even the naturalist has been forced to call the Mammalia. When
the savage mother awoke to her first tenderness, a new creative hand was at work in the world"
(36. 240). Said Henry Ward Beecher: "When God thought of Mother, he must have laughed with
satisfaction, and framed it quickly,--so rich, so deep, so divine, so full of soul, power,
and beauty, was the conception," and it was unto babes and sucklings that this wisdom was first
revealed. From their lips first fell the sound which parents of later ages consecrated and
preserved to all time. With motherhood came into the world song, religion, the thought of immortality
itself; and the mother and the child, in the course of the ages, invented and preserved most
of the arts and the graces of human life and human culture. In language, especially, the mother
and the child have exercised a vast influence. In the names for "mother," the various races
have recognized the debt they owe to her who is the "fashioner" of the child, its "nourisher"
and its "nurse." An examination of the etymologies of the words for "mother" in all known languages
is obviously impossible, for the last speakers and interpreters of many of the unwritten tongues
of the earth are long since dead and gone. How primitive man--the first man of the race--called
his mother, we can but surmise. Still, a number of interesting facts are known, and some of
these follow.

The word mother is one of the oldest in the language; one of the very few words found among
all the great branches of the widely scattered Aryan race, bearing witness, in ages far remote,
before the Celt, the Teuton, the Hellene, the Latin, the Slav, and the Indo-Iranian were known,
to the existence of the family, with the mother occupying a high and honourable place, if not
indeed the highest place of all. What the etymological meaning was, of the primitive Aryan
word from which our mother is descended, is uncertain. It seems, however, to be a noun derived,
with the agent-suffix -t-r, from the root ma, "to measure." Skeat thinks the word meant originally
"manager, regulator [of the household]," rejecting, as unsupported by sufficient evidence,
a suggested interpretation as the "producer." Kluge, the German lexicographer, hesitates between
the "apportioner, measurer," and the "former [of the embryo in the womb]." In the language
of the Klamath Indians of Oregon, p'gishap, "mother," really signifies the "maker."

The Karankawas of Texas called "mother," kaninma, the "suckler," from kanin, "the female breast."
In Latin mamma, seems to signify "teat, breast," as well as "mother," but Skeat doubts whether
there are not two distinct words here. In Finnish and some other primitive languages a similar
resemblance or identity exists between the words for "breast" and "mother." In Lithuanian,
mote--cognate with our mother--signifies "wife," and in the language of the Caddo Indians of
Louisiana and Texas sassin means both "wife" and "mother." The familiar "mother" of the New
England farmer of the "Old Homestead" type, presents, perhaps, a relic of the same thought.
The word dame, in older English, from being a title of respect for women--there is a close
analogy in the history of sire--came to signify "mother." Chaucer translates the French of
the Romaunt of the Rose, "Enfant qui craint ni pere ni mere Ne pent que bien ne le comperre,"
by "For who that dredeth sire ne dame Shall it abie in bodie or name," and Shakespeare makes
poor Caliban declare: "I never saw a woman, But only Sycorax, my dam." Nowadays, the word dam
is applied only to the female parent of animals, horses especially. The word, which is one
with the honourable appellation dame, goes back to the Latin domina, "mistress, lady," the
feminine of dominus, "lord, master." In not a few languages, the words for "father" and "mother"
are derived from the same root, or one from the other, by simple phonetic change. Thus, in
the Sandeh language of Central Africa, "mother" is n-amu, "father," b-amu; in the Cholona of
South America, pa is "father," pa-n, "mother"; in the PEntlate of British Columbia, "father"
is maa, "mother," taa, while in the Songish man is "father" and tan "mother" (404. 143).

Certain tongues have different words for "mother," according as it is a male or a female who
speaks. Thus in the Okanak.en, a Salish dialect of British Columbia, a man or a boy says for
"mother," sk'oi, a woman or a girl, tom; in Kalispelm the corresponding terms for "my mother"
are isk'oi and intoop. This distinction, however, seems not to be so common as in the case
of "father."

In a number of languages the words for "mother" are different when the latter is addressed
and when she is spoken of or referred to. Thus in the Kwakiutl, Nootka, and Catloltq, three
British Columbia tongues, the two words for "mother" are respectively at, abouk; at, abEmp;
nikH, tan. It is to be noted, apparently, that the word used in address is very often simpler,
more primitive, than the other. Even in English we find something similar in the use of ma
(or mama) and mother.

In the Gothic alone, of all the great Teutonic dialects,--the language into which Bishop Wulfila
translated the Scriptures in the fourth century,--the cognate equivalent of our English mother
does not appear. The Gothic term is aithiei, evidently related to atta, "father," and belonging
to the great series of nursery words, of which our own ma, mama, are typical examples. These
are either relics of the first articulations of the child and the race, transmitted by hereditary
adaptation from generation to generation, or are the coinages of mother and nurse in imitation
of the cries of infancy.

These simple words are legion in number and are found over the whole inhabited earth,--in the
wigwam of the Redskin, in the tent of the nomad Bedouin, in the homes of cultured Europeans
and Americans. Dr. Buschmann studied these "nature-sounds," as he called them, and found that
they are chiefly variations and combinations of the syllables ab, ap, am, an, ad, at, ba, pa,
ma, na, da, ta, etc., and that in one language, not absolutely unrelated to another, the same
sound will be used to denote the "mother" that in the second signifies "father," thus evidencing
the applicability of these words, in the earliest stages of their existence, to either, or
to both, of the parents of the child (166. 85). Pott, while remarking a wonderful resemblance
in the names for parents all over the world, seeks to establish the rather doubtful thesis
that there is a decided difference in the nature of the words for "father" and those for "mother,"
the former being "man-like, stronger," the latter "woman-like, mild" (517. 57).

Some languages apparently do not possess a single specialized word for "mother." The Hawaiian,
for example, calls "mother and the sisters of the mother" makua wahine, "female parent," that
being the nearest equivalent of our "mother," while in Tonga, as indeed with us to-day, sometimes
the same term is applied to a real mother and to an adopted one (100. 389). In Japan, the paternal
aunt and the maternal aunt are called "little mother." Similar terms and appellations are found
in other primitive tongues. A somewhat extended discussion of names for "mother," and the questions
connected with the subject, will be found in Westermarck (166. 85). Here also will be found
notices of the names among various peoples for the nearest relatives of the mother and father.
Incidentally it is worth noting that Westermarck controverts Professor Vambery's opinion that
the Turko-Tartar words for "mother," ana, ene, originally meant "nurse" or "woman" (from the
root an, en), holding that exactly the reverse is the fact, "the terms for mother being the
primitive words." He is also inclined to think that the Aryan roots pa, "to protect, to nourish,"
and ma, "to fashion," came from pa, "father," and ma, "mother," and not vice versa. Mr. Bridges,
the missionary who has studied so well the Yahgans of Tierra del Fuego, states that "the names
imu and dabi--father and mother--have no meaning apart from their application, neither have
any of their other very definite and ample list of terms for relatives, except the terms macu
[cf. magu, "parturition"] and macipa [cf. cipa, "female"], son and daughter." This statement
is, however, too sweeping perhaps (166. 88).

According to Colonel Mallery, the Ute Indians indicate "mother" by placing the index finger
in the mouth (497a. 479). Clark describes the common Indian sign as follows: "Bring partially
curved and compressed right hand, and strike with two or three gentle taps right or left breast,
and make sign for female; though in conversation the latter is seldom necessary. Deaf mutes
make sign for female, and cross hands as in their sign for baby, and move them to front and
upwards" (420. 262). Somewhat similar is the sign for "father": "Bring the compressed right
hand, back nearly outwards, in front of right or left breast, tips of fingers few inches from
it; move the hand, mostly by wrist action, and gently tap the breast with tips of fingers two
or three times, then make sign for male. Some Indians tap right breast for 'father,' and left
for 'mother.' Deaf-mutes make sign for male, and then holding hands fixed as in their sign
for baby, but a little higher, move the hands to front and upwards" (420. 167).

Interesting is the following statement of Mr. Codrington, the well-known missionary to the
Melanesians:--

"In Mota the word used for 'mother' is the same that is used for the division [tribe?] veve,
with a plural sign ra veve. And it is not that a man's kindred are so called after his mother,
but that his mother is called his kindred, as if she were the representative of the division
to which he belongs; as if he were not the child of a particular woman, but of the whole kindred
for whom she brought him into the world." Moreover, at Mota, in like fashion, "the word for
'consort,' 'husband,' or 'wife,' is in a plural form ra soai, the word used for members of
a body, or the component parts of a canoe" (25. 307-8).

Mother-Right.

Since the appearance of Bachofen's famous book on the matriarchate, "mother-right," that system
of society in which the mother is paramount in the family and the line of inheritance passes
through her, has received much attention from students of sociology and primitive history.

Post thus defines the system of mother-right:--

"The matriarchate is a system of relationship according to which the child is related only
to his mother and to the persons connected with him through the female line, while he is looked
upon as not related to his father and the persons connected with him through the male line.
According to this system, therefore, the narrowest family circle consists not, as with us to-day,
of father, mother, and child, but of mother, mother's brother, and sister's child, whilst the
father is completely wanting, and the mother's brother takes the father's place with the sister's
children. The real father is not the father of his own children, but of his nephews and nieces,
whilst the brother of his wife is looked upon as father to his children. The brothers and sisters
of the mother form with her a social group, to which belong also the children of the sisters,
the children of the daughters of the sisters, etc., but not the children of the brothers, the
children of the sisters' sons, etc. With every husband the relationship ceases" (127. I. 13-14).

The system of mother-right prevails widely over the whole globe; in some places, however, only
in fragmentary condition. It is found amongst nearly all the native tribes of America; the
peoples of Malaysia, Melanesia, Australia, Micronesia, and Polynesia, the Dravidian tribes
of India; in Africa it is found in the eastern Sahara, the Soudan, the east and west coast,
and in the centre of the continent, but not to the exclusion, altogether, of father-right,
while in the north the intrusion of Europeans and the followers of Islam has tended to suppress
it. Traces of its former existence are discovered among certain of the ancient tribes of Asia
Minor, the old Egyptians, Arabs, Greeks, Romans, Teutons, the Aryans of India, the Chinese,
Japanese, etc.

Mother-right has been recognized by many sociologists as a system of family relationship, perhaps
the most widespread, perhaps the most primitive of all. Dr. Brinton says:--

"The foundation of the gentile system, as of any other family life, is ... the mutual affection
between kindred. In the primitive period this is especially between children of the same mother,
not so much because of the doubt of paternity, as because physiologically and obviously, it
is the mother in whom is formed, and from whom alone proceeds, the living being" (412. 47).

Professor O. T. Mason, in the course of his interesting address on "Woman's Share in Primitive
Culture," remarks (112. 10):--

"Such sociologists as Morgan and McLennan affirm that the primitive society had no family organization
at all. They hypothecate a condition in which utter promiscuity prevailed. I see no necessity
for this. There is some organization among insects. Birds mate and rear a little family. Many
animals set up a kind of patriarchal horde. On the other hand, they err greatly who look among
savages for such permanent home life as we enjoy. Marriages are in groups, children are the
sons and daughters of these groups; divorces are common. The fathers of the children are not
known, and if they were, they would have no authority on that account. The mother never changes
her name, the children are named after her, or, at least, are not named after the father. The
system of gentes prevails, each gens consisting of a hypothetical female ancestress, and all
her descendants through females. These primitive men and women, having no other resort, hit
upon this device to hold a band of kin together. Here was the first social tie on earth; the
beginning of the state. The first empire was a woman and her children, regardless of paternity.
This was the beginning of all the social bonds which unite us. Among our own Indians mother-right
was nearly universal. Upon the death of a chief whose office was hereditary, he was succeeded,
not by his son, but by the son of a sister, or an aunt, or a niece; all his property that was
not buried with him fell to the same parties, could not descend to his children, since a child
and the father belonged to different gentes." McLennan has discussed at some length the subject
of kinship in ancient Greece (115. 193-246), and maintains that "the system of double kinship,
which prevailed in the time of Homer, was preceded by a system of kinship through females only,"
referring to the cases of Lycaon, Tlepolemus, Helen, Arnaeus, Glaucus, and Sarpedon, besides
the evidence in the Orestes of Euripides, and the Eumenides of Aeschylus. In the last, "the
jury are equally divided on the plea [that Orestes was not of kin to his mother, Clytemnestra,
whom he had killed, --"Do you call me related by blood to my mother?"], and Orestes gains his
cause by the casting vote of Athene." According to tradition, "in Greece, before the time of
Cecrops, children always bore the name of their mothers," in marked contrast to tha state of
affairs in Sparta, where, according to Philo, "the marriage tie was so loose that men lent
their wives to one another, and cared little by whom children were begotten, provided they
turned out strong and healthy."

We have preserved for us, by Plutarch and others, some of the opinions of Greek philosophers
on the relation of the father and the mother to the child. Plato is represented as calling
"mind the conception, idea, model, and father; and matter the mother, nurse, or seat and region
capable of births." Chrysippus is said to have stated: "The foetus is nourished in the womb
like a plant; but, being born, is refrigerated and hardened by the air, and its spirit being
changed it becomes an animal," a view which, as McLennan points out, "constitutes the mother
the mere nurse of her child, just as a field is of the seed sown in it."

The view of Apollo, which, in the council of the gods, influenced Athene to decide for Orestes,
is this:--

"The bearer of the so-called offspring is not the mother of it, but only the nurse of the newly
conceived foetus. It is the male who is the author of its being; while she, as a stranger,
for a stranger, preserves the young plant for those for whom the god has not blighted it in
the bud. And I will show you a proof of this assertion; one may become a father without a mother.
There stands by a witness of this in the daughter of Olympian Zeus, who was not even nursed
[much less engendered or begotten] in the darkness of the womb" (115. 211). "This is akin to
the wild discussion in the misogynistic Middle Ages about the possibility of lucina sine concubitu.
The most recent and most scholarly discussion of all questions involved in "mother-right" will
be found people in the world; for it stands on record that the five companies (five hundred
men) recruited from the Iroquois of New York and Canada during our civil war stood first on
the list among all the recruits of our army for height, vigour, and corporeal symmetry" (412.
82). And it was this people too who produced Hiawatha, a philosophic legislator and reformer,
worthy to rank with Solon and Lycurgus, and the founder of a great league whose object was
to put an end to war, and unite all the nations in one bond of brotherhood and peace.

Among the Choctaw-Muskogee tribes, women-chiefs were also known; the Yuchis, Chetimachas, had
"Queens"; occasionally we find female rulers elsewhere in America, as among the Winnebagos,
the Nah-ane, etc. Scattered examples of gynocracy are to be found in other parts of the world,
and in their later development some of the Aryan races have been rather partial to women as
monarchs, and striking instances of a like predilection are to be met with among the Semitic
tribes,--Boadicea, Dido, Semiramis, Deborah are well-known cases in point, to say nothing of
the Christian era and its more enlightened treatment of woman.

The fate of women among those peoples and in those ages where extreme exaltation of the male
has been the rule, is sketched by Letourneau in his chapter on The Condition of Women (100.
173-185); the contrast between the Australians, to whom "woman is a domestic animal, useful
for the purposes of genesic pleasure, for reproduction, and, in case of famine, for food,"
the Chinese, who can say "a newly-married woman ought to be merely as a shadow and as an echo
in the house," the primitive Hindus, who forbade the wife to call her husband by name, but
made her term him "master, lord," or even "god," and even some of our modern races in the eye
of whose law women are still minors, and the Iroquois, is remarkable. Such great differences
in the position and rights of women, existing through centuries, over wide areas of the globe,
have made the study of comparative pedagogy a most important branch of human sociology. The
mother as teacher has not been, and is not now, the same the world over.

As men holding supreme power have been termed "father," women have in like manner been called
"mother." The title of the queen-mother in Ashanti is nana, "Grandmother" (438. 259), and to
some of the Indian tribes of Canada Queen Victoria is the "Great White Mother," the "Great
Mother across the Sea." In Ashanti the "rich, prosperous, and powerful" are termed oman enna,
"mothers of the tribe," and are expected to make suitably large offerings to the dead, else
there will be no child born in the neglectful family for a certain period (438. 228).

With the Romans, mater and its derivative matrona, came to be applied as titles of honour;
and beside the rites of the parentalia we find those of the matronalia (492. 454).

In the ancient Hebrew chronicles we find mention of Deborah, that "mother in Israel."

With us, off whose tongues "the fathers," "forefathers," "ancestors" (hardly including ancestresses)
and the like rolled so glibly, the "Pilgrim Fathers" were glorified long before the "Pilgrim
Mothers," and hardly yet has the mother of the "father of his country" received the just remembrance
and recognition belonging to her who bore so noble and so illustrious a son. By and by, however,
it is to be hoped, we shall be free from the reproach cast upon us by Colonel Higginson, and
wake up to the full consciousness that the great men of our land have had mothers, and proceed
to re-write our biographical dictionaries and encyclopadias of life-history.

In Latin mater, as does mother with us, possessed a wide extent of meaning, "mother, parent,
producer, nurse, preparer, cause, origin, source," etc. Mater omnium artium necessitas, "Necessity
is the mother of invention," and similar phrases were in common use, as they are also in the
languages of to-day. Connected with mater is materia, "matter,"--mother-stuff, perhaps,--and
from it is derived matrimonium, which testifies concerning primitive Roman sociology, in which
the mother-idea must have been prominent, something we cannot say of our word marriage, derived
ultimately from the Latin mas, "a male."

Westermarck notes the Nicaraguans, Dyaks, Minahassers, Andaman Islanders, Padam, Munda Kols,
Santals, Moors of the Western Soudan, Tuaregs, Teda, among the more or less primitive peoples
with whom woman is held in considerable respect, and sometimes, as among the Munda Kols, bears
the proud title "mistress of the house" (166. 500, 501). As Havelock Ellis remarks, women have
shown themselves the equals of men as rulers, and most beneficial results have flowed from
their exercise of the great political wisdom, and adaptation to statecraft which seems to belong
especially to the female sex. The household has been a training-school for women in the more
extended spheres of human administrative society.

Alma Mater.

The college graduate fondly calls the institution from which he has obtained his degree Alma
Mater, "nourishing, fostering, cherishing mother," and he is her alumnus (foster-child, nourished
one). For long years the family of the benign and gracious mother, whose wisdom was lavished
upon her children, consisted of sons alone, but now, with the advent of "sweeter manners, purer
laws," daughters have come to her also, and the alumnae, "the sweet girl-graduates in their
golden hair," share in the best gifts their parent can bestow. To Earth also, the term Alma
Mater has been applied, and the great nourishing mother of all was indeed the first teacher
of man, the first university of the race.

Alma, alumnus, alumna, are all derived from alo, "I nourish, support." From the radical al,
following various trains of thought, have come: alesco, "I grow up"; coalesco, "I grow together";
adolesco, "I grow up,"--whence adolescent, etc.; obsolesco, "I wear out"; alimentum, "food";
alimonium, "support"; altor, altrix, "nourisher"; altus, "high, deep" (literally, "grown");
elementum, "first principle," etc. Connected With adolesco is adultus, whence our adult, with
the radical of which the English word old (eld) is cognate. From the root al, "to grow, to
make to grow, to nourish," spring also the Latin words proles, "offspring," suboles, "offspring,
sprout," indoles, "inborn or native quality."

"Mother's Son."

The familiar expression "every mother's son of us" finds kin in the Modern High German Muttersohn,
Mutterkind, which, with the even more significant Muttermensch (human being), takes us back
to the days of "mother-right." Rather different, however, is the idea called up by the corresponding
Middle Low German modersone, which means "bastard, illegitimate child."

Lore of Motherhood

A synonym of Muttermensch is Mutterseele, for soul and man once meant pretty much, the same.
The curious expression mutterseelenallein, "quite alone; alone by one's self," is given a peculiar
interpretation by Lippert, who sees in it a relic of the burial of the dead (soul) beneath
the hearth, threshold, or floor of the house; "wessen Mutter im Hause ruht, der kann daheim
immer nur mit seiner Mutterseele selbander allein sein." Or, perhaps, it goes back to the time
when, as with the Seminoles of Florida, the babe was held over the mouth of the mother, whose
death resulted from its birth, in order that her departing spirit might enter the new being.

In German, the "mother-feeling" makes its influence felt in the nomenclature of the lower brute
creation. As contrasted with our English female donkey (she-donkey), mare, ewe, ewe-lamb, sow,
doe-hare (female hare), queen-bee, etc., we find Mutteresel, "mother-donkey "; Mutterpferd,
"mother-horse"; Mutterschaf, "mother-sheep"; Mutterlamm, "mother lamb"; Mutterschwein, "mother
swine"; Mutterhase, "mother-hare"; Mutterbiene, "mother-bee."

Nor is this feeling absent from the names of plants and things inanimate. We have Mutterbirke,
"birch"; Mutterblume, "seed-flower"; Mutternelke, "carnation"; Mutternagelein (our "mother-clove");
Mutterholz. In English we have "mother of thyme," etc. In Japan a triple arrangement in the
display of the flower-vase--a floral trinity--is termed chichi, "father"; haha, "mother"; ten,
"heaven" (189. 74).

In the nursery-lore of all peoples, as we can see from the fairy-tales and child-stories in
our own and other languages, this attribution of motherhood to all things animate and inanimate
is common, as it is in the folk-lore and mythology of the adult members of primitive races
now existing.

Mother Poet.

The arts of poetry, music, dancing, according to classic mythology, were presided over by nine
goddesses, or Muses, daughters of Mnemosyne, goddess of memory, "Muse-mother," as Mrs. Browning
terms her. The history of woman as a poet has yet to be written, but to her in the early ages
poetry owed much of its development and its beauty. Mr. Vance has remarked that "among many
of the lowest races the only love-dances in vogue are those performed by the women" (545a.
4069). And Letourneau considers that "there are good grounds for supposing that women may have
especially participated in the creation of the lyric of the erotic kind." Professor Mason,
in the course of his remarks upon woman's labour in the world in all ages, says (112. 12):--

"The idea of a maker, or creator-of-all-things found no congenial soil in the minds of savage
men, who manufactured nothing. But, as the first potters, weavers, house-builders were women,
the idea of a divine creator as a moulder, designer, and architect originated with her, or
was suggested by her. The three Fates, Clotho, who spins the thread of life; Lachesis, who
fixes its prolongation; and Atropos, who cuts this thread with remorseless shears, are necessarily
derived from woman's work. The mother-goddess of all peoples, culminating in the apotheosis
of the Virgin Mary, is an idea, either originated by women, or devised to satisfy their spiritual
cravings."

And we have, besides the goddesses of all mythologies, personifying woman's devotion, beauty,
love. What shall we say of that art, highest of all human accomplishments, in the exercise
of which men have become almost as gods? The old Greeks called the singer [Greek: poiaetaes],
"maker," and perhaps from woman the first poets learned how to worship in noble fashion that
great maker of all, whose poem is the universe. Religion and poetry have ever gone hand in
hand; Plato was right when he said: "I am persuaded, somehow, that good poets are the inspired
interpreters of the gods." Of song, as of religion, it may perhaps be said: Dux foemina facti.

To the mother beside the cradle where lies her tender offspring, song is as natural as speech
itself to man. Lullabies are found in every land; everywhere the joyous mother-heart bursts
forth into song. The German proverb is significant: "Wer ein saugendes Kind hat, der hat eine
singende Frau," and Fischer, a quaint poet of the sixteenth century, has beautifully expressed
a like idea:--

"Wo Honig ist, da sammlen sieb die Fliegen, Wo Kinder sind, da singt man um die Wiegen."

Ploss, in whose book is to be found a choice collection of lullabies from all over the globe,
remarks: "The folk-poetry of all peoples is rich in songs whose texts and melodies the tender
mother herself imagined and composed" (326. II. 128).

The Countess Martinengo-Cesaresco devotes an interesting chapter of her Essays in the Study
of Folk-Song to the subject of lullabies. But not cradle-songs alone have sprung from woman's
genius. The world over, dirges and funeral-laments have received their poetical form from the
mother. As name-giver, too, in many lands, the mother exercised this side of her imaginative
faculty. The mother and the child, from whom language received its chief inspiration, were
also the callers forth of its choicest and most creative form.

Mother-Wit.

"An ounce o' mother-wit is worth a pound o' clergy," says the Scotch proverb, and the "mother-wit,"
Muttergeist and Mutterwitz, that instructive common-sense, that saving light that make the
genius and even the fool, in the midst of his folly, wise, appear in folk-lore and folk-speech
everywhere. What the statistics of genius seem to show that great men owe to their mothers,
no less than fools, is summed up by the folk-mind in the word mother-wit.

Shakespeare makes Petruchio tell the shrewish Katherine that his "goodly speech" is "extempore
from my mother-wit," and Emerson calls "mother-wit," the "cure for false theology." Quite appropriately
Spenser, in the Faerie Queene, speaks of "all that Nature by her mother-wit could frame in
earth." It is worth noting that when the ancient Greeks came to name the soul, they personified
it in Psyche, a beautiful female, and that the word for "soul" is feminine in many European
languages.

Among the Teton Indians, according to the Rev. J. Owen Dorsey, the following peculiar custom
exists: "Prior to the naming of the infant is the ceremony of the transfer of character; should
the infant be a boy, a brave and good-tempered man, chosen beforehand, takes the infant in
his arms and breathes into his mouth, thereby communicating his own disposition to the infant,
who will grow up to be a brave and good-natured man. It is thought that such an infant will
not cry as much as infants that have not been thus favoured. Should the infant be a girl, it
is put into the arms of a good woman, who breathes into its mouth" (433. 482).

Here we have father-wit as well as mother-wit.

Mother-Tongue.

Where women have no voice whatever in public affairs, and are subordinated to the uttermost
in social and family matters, little that is honourable and noble is named for them. In East
Central Africa, a Yao woman, asked if the child she is carrying is a boy or a girl, frequently
replies: "My child is of the sex that does not speak" (518. XLIII. 249), and with other peoples
in higher stages of culture, the "silent woman" lingers yet. Taceat mulier in ecclesia still
rings in our ears to-day, as it has rung for untold centuries. Though the poet has said:--

  "There is a sight all hearts beguiling--
  A youthful mother to her infant smiling,
  Who, with spread arms and dancing feet,
  And cooing voice, returns its answer sweet,"

and mothers alone have understood the first babblings of humanity, they have waited long to
be remembered in the worthiest name of the language they have taught their offspring.

The term mother-tongue, although Middle English had "birthe-tonge," in the sense of native
speech, is not old in our language; the Century Dictionary gives no examples of its early use.
Even immortal Shakespeare does not know it, for, in King Richard II., he makes Mowbray say:--

  "The language I have learned these forty years
  (My native English) now must I forego."

The German version of the passage has, however, mein mutterliches Englisch.

Cowper, in the Task, does use "mother-tongue," in the connection following:--

  "Praise enough
  To fill the ambition of a private man,
  That Chatham's language was his mother-tongue."

Mother-tongue has now become part and parcel of our common speech; a good word, and a noble one.

In Modern High German, the corresponding Mutterzunge, found in Sebastian Franck (sixteenth
century) has gradually given way to Muttersprache, a word whose history is full of interest.
In Germany, as in Europe generally, the esteem in which Latin was held in the Middle Ages and
the centuries immediately following them, forbade almost entirely the birth or extension of
praiseworthy and endearing names for the speech of the common people of the country. So long
as men spoke of "hiding the beauties of Latin in homely German words," and a Bacon could think
of writing his chief work in Latin, in order that he might be remembered after his death, it
were vain to expect aught else.

Hence, it does not surprise us to learn that the word Muttersprache is not many centuries old
in German. Dr. Lubben, who has studied its history, says it is not to be found in Old High
German or Middle High German (or Middle Low German), and does not appear even in Luther's works,
though, judging from a certain passage in his Table Talk, it was perhaps known to him. It was
only in the seventeenth century that the word became quite common. Weigand states that it was
already in the Dictionarium latino-germanicum (Zurich, 1556), and in Maaler's Die Teutsch Spraach
(Zurich, 1561), in which latter work (S. 262 a) we meet with the expressions vernacula lingua,
patrius sermo, landspraach, muoterliche spraach, and muoterspraach (S. 295 c). Opitz (1624)
uses the word, and it is found in Schottel's Teutsche Haupt-Sprache (Braunschweig, 1663). Apparently
the earliest known citation is the Low German modersprake, found in the introduction of Dietrich
Engelhus' (of Einbeck) Deutsche Chronik (1424).

Nowadays Muttersprache is found everywhere in the German book-language, but Dr. Lubben, in
1881, declared that he had never heard it from the mouth of the Low German folk, with whom
the word was always lantsprake, gemene sprake. Hence, although the word has been immortalized
by Klaus Groth, the Low German Burns, in the first poem of his Quickborn:--

  "Min Modersprak, so slicht un recht,
  Du ole frame Red!
  Wenn blot en Mund 'min Vader' seggt,
  So klingt mi't as en Bed,"

and by Johann Meyer, in his Ditmarscher Gedichte:--

  "Vaderhus un Modersprak!
  Lat mi't nom'n un lat mi't rop'n;
  Vaderhus, du belli Sted,
  Modersprak, da frame Red,
  Schonres klingt der Nix tohopen,"

it may be that modersprak is not entirely a word of Low German origin; beautiful though it
is, this dialect, so closely akin to our own English, did not directly give it birth. Nor do
the corresponding terms in the other Teutonic dialects,--Dutch moederspraak, moedertaal, Swedish
modersmal, etc.,--seem more original. The Romance languages, however, offer a clue. In French,
langue mere is a purely scientific term of recent origin, denoting the root-language of a number
of dialects, or of a "family of speech," and does not appear as the equivalent of Muttersprache.
The equivalents of the latter are: French, langue maternelle; Spanish, lengua materna; Italian,
lingua materna, etc., all of which are modifications or imitations of a Low Latin lingua materna,
or lingua maternalis. The Latin of the classic period seems not to have possessed this term,
the locutions in use being sermo noster, patrius sermo, etc. The Greek had [Greek: ae egchorios
glossa ae idia glossa,] etc. Direct translations are met with in the moderlike sprake of Daniel
von Soest, of Westphalia (sixteenth century), and the muoterliche spraach of Maaler (1561).
It is from an Italian- Latin source that Dr. Lubben supposes that the German prototypes of
modersprak and Muttersprache arose. In the Bok der Byen, a semi-Low German translation (fifteenth
century) of the Liber Apium of Thomas of Chantimpre, occurs the word modertale in the passage
"Christus sede to er [the Samaritan woman] mit sachte stemme in erre modertale." A municipal
book of Treuenbrietzen informs us that in the year 1361 it was resolved to write in the ydeoma
maternale--what the equivalent of this was in the common speech is not stated--and in the Relatio
of Hesso, we find the term materna lingua (105 a).

The various dialects have some variants of Muttersprache, and in Gottingen we meet with moimen
spraken, where moime (cognate with Modern High German Muhme, "aunt"), signifies "mother," and
is a child-word.

From the mother-tongue to the mother-land is but a step. As the speech she taught her babe
bears the mother's name, so does also the land her toil won from the wilderness.

Mother-Land.

As we say in English most commonly "native city," so also we say "native land."

Scott's far-famed lines:--

  "Breathes there a man with soul so dead,
  Who never to himself has said,
  This is my own, my native land!"

and Smith's national hymn, "My country,'tis of thee," know no mother-land.

In the great Century Dictionary, the only illustration cited of the use of the word mother-land
is a very recent one, from the Century Magazine (vol. xxix. p. 507).

Shakespeare, however, comes very near it, when, in King John (V. ii.), he makes the Bastard
speak of "your dear Mother-England," --but this is not quite "mother-land."

In German, though, through the sterner influences which surrounded the Empire in its birth
and reorganization, Vaterland is now the word, Mutterland was used by Kant, Wieland, Goethe,
Herder, Uhland, etc. Lippert suggests an ingenious explanation of the origin of the terms Mutterland,
Vaterland, as well as for the predominance of the latter and younger word. If, in primitive
times, man alone could hold property,--women even and children were his chattels,--yet the
development of agriculture and horticulture at the hands of woman created, as it were, a new
species of property, property in land, the result of woman's toil and labour; and this new
property, in days when "mother-right" prevailed, came to be called Mutterland, as it was essentially
"mothers' land." But when men began to go forth to war, and to conquer and acquire land that
was not "mothers' land," a new species of landed property,--the "land of the conquering father,"--came
into existence (and with it a new theory of succession, "father-right"), and from that time
forward "Vaterland" has extended its signification, until it has attained the meaning which
it possesses in the German speech of to-day (492. 33, 36).

The inhabitants of the British colonies scattered all over the world speak of Britain as the
"mother country," "Mother England"; and R. H. Stoddard, the American poet, calls her "our Mother's
Mother." The French of Canada term France over-sea "la mere patrie" (mother fatherland).

Even Livy, the Roman historian, wrote terra quam matrem appellamus,--"the land we call mother,"--and
Virgil speaks of Apollo's native Delos as Delum maternum. But for all this, the proud Roman
called his native land, not after his mother, but after his father, patria; so also in corresponding
terms the Greek, [Greek: patris], etc. But the latter remembered his mother also, as the word
metropolis, which we have inherited, shows. [Greek: Maetropolis] had the meanings: "mother-state"
(whence daughter-colonies went forth); "a chief city, a capital, metropolis; one's mother-city,
or mother-country." In English, metropolis has been associated with "mother-church," for a
metropolis or a metropolitan city, was long one which was the seat of a bishopric.

Among the ancient Greeks the Cretans were remarkable for saying not [Greek: patris] (father-land),
but [Greek: maetris] (mother-land), by which name also the Messenians called their native land.
Some light upon the loss of "mother-words" in ancient Greece may be shed from the legend which
tells that when the question came whether the new town was to be named after Athene or Poseidon,
all the women voted for the former, carrying the day by a single vote, whereupon Poseidon,
in anger, sent a flood, and the men, determining to punish their wives, deprived them of the
power of voting, and decided that thereafter children were not to be named after their mothers
(115. 235).

In Gothic, we meet with a curious term for "native land, home," gabaurths (from gabairan "to
bear"), which signifies also "birth." As an exemplification of the idea in the Sophoclean phrase
"all-nourishing earth," we find that at an earlier stage in the history of our own English
tongue erd (cognate with our earth) signified "native land," a remembrance of that view of
savage and uncivilized peoples in which earth, land are "native country," for these are, in
the true sense of the term, Landesleute, homines.

In the language of the Hervey Islands, in the South Pacific, "the place in which the placenta
of an infant is buried is called the ipukarea, or native soil" (459. 26).

Our English language seems still to prefer "native city, native town, native village," as well
as "native land," "mother-city" usually signifying an older town from which younger ones have
come forth. In German, though Vaterstadt in analogy with Vaterland seems to be the favorite,
Mutterstadt is not unknown.

Besides Mutterland and Mutterstadt, we find in German the following:--

Mutterboden, "mother-land." Used by the poet Uhland. Muttergefilde, "the fields of mother-earth."
Used by Schlegel. Muttergrund, "the earth," as productive of all things. Used by Goethe. Mutterhimmel,
"the sky above one's native land." Used by the poet Herder. Mutterluft, "the air of one's native
land." Mutterhaus, "the source, origin of anything." Uhland even has:--

  "Hier ist des Stromes Mutterhaus,
  Ich trink ihn frisch vom Stein heraus."

More far-reaching, diviner than "mother-land," is "mother-earth."

CHAPTER III.

THE CHILD'S TRIBUTE TO THE MOTHER (Continued).

To the child its mother should be as God.--G. Stanley Hall.

A mother is the holiest thing alive.--Coleridge.

God pardons like a mother, who kisses the offence into everlasting forgetfulness.--Henry Ward
Beecher.

When the social world was written in terms of mother-right, the religious world was expressed
in terms of mother-god.

There is nothing more charming than to see a mother with a child in her arms, and nothing more
venerable than a mother among a number of her children.--Goethe.

Mother-Earth.

"Earth, Mother of all," is a world-wide goddess. Professor O.T. Mason, says: "The earth is
the mother of all mankind. Out of her came they. Her traits, attributes, characteristics, they
have so thoroughly inherited and imbibed, that, from any doctrinal point of view regarding
the origin of the species, the earth may be said to have been created for men, and men to have
been created out of the earth. By her nurture and tuition they grow up and flourish, and, folded
in her bosom, they sleep the sleep of death. The idea of the earth-mother is in every cosmogony.
Nothing is more beautiful in the range of mythology than the conception of Demeter with Persephone,
impersonating the maternal earth, rejoicing in the perpetual return of her daughter in spring,
and mourning over her departure in winter to Hades" (389 (1894). 140).

Dr. D.G. Brinton writes in the same strain (409. 238): "Out of the earth rises life, to it
it returns. She it is who guards all germs, nourishes all beings. The Aztecs painted her as
a woman with countless breasts; the Peruvians called her 'Mama Allpa,' mother Earth; in the
Algonkin tongue, the words for earth, mother, father, are from the same root. Homo, Adam, chamaigenes,
what do all these words mean but earth-born, the son of the soil, repeated in the poetic language
of Attica in anthropos, he who springs up like a flower?"

Mr. W. J. McGee, treating of "Earth the Home of Man," says (502. 28):--

"In like manner, mankind, offspring of Mother Earth, cradled and nursed through helpless infancy
by things earthly, has been brought well towards maturity; and, like the individual man, he
is repaying the debt unconsciously assumed at the birth of his kind, by transforming the face
of nature, by making all things better than they were before, by aiding the good and destroying
the bad among animals and plants, and by protecting the aging earth from the ravages of time
and failing strength, even as the child protects his fleshly mother. Such are the relations
of earth and man."

The Roman babe had no right to live until the father lifted him up from "mother-earth" upon
which he lay; at the baptism of the ancient Mexican child, the mother spoke thus: "Thou Sun,
Father of all that live, and thou Earth, our Mother, take ye this child and guard it as your
son" (529. 97); and among the Gypsies of northern Hungary, at a baptism, the oldest woman present
takes the child out, and, digging a circular trench around the little one, whom she has placed
upon the earth, utters the following words: "Like this Earth, be thou strong and great, may
thy heart be free from care, be merry as a bird" (392 (1891). 20). All of these practices have
their analogues in other parts of the globe.

In another way, infanticide is connected with "mother-earth." In the book of the "Wisdom of
Solomon" (xiv. 23) we read: "They slew their children in sacrifices." Infanticide--"murder
most foul, as in the best it is, but this most foul, strange, and unnatural"--has been sheltered
beneath the cloak of religion. The story is one of the darkest pages in the history of man.
A priestly legend of the Khonds of India attributes to child-sacrifice a divine origin:--

"In the beginning was the Earth a formless mass of mud, and could not have borne the dwelling
of man, or even his weight; in this liquid and ever-moving slime neither tree nor herb took
root. Then God said: 'Spill human blood before my face!' And they sacrificed a child before
Him. ... Falling upon the soil, the bloody drops stiffened and consolidated it."

But too well have the Khonds obeyed the command: "And by the virtues of the blood shed, the
seeds began to sprout, the plants to grow, the animals to propagate. And God commanded that
the Earth should be watered with blood every new season, to keep her firm and solid. And this
has been done by every generation that has preceded us."

More than once "the mother, with her boys and girls, and perhaps even a little child in her
arms, were immolated together,"--for sometimes the wretched children, instead of being immediately
sacrificed, were allowed to live until they had offspring whose sad fate was determined ere
their birth. In the work of Reclus may be read the fearful tale of the cult of "Pennou, the
terrible earth-deity, the bride of the great Sun-God" (523. 315).

In Tonga the paleness of the moon is explained by the following legend: Vatea (Day) and Tonga-iti
(Night) each claimed the first-born of Papa (Earth) as his own child. After they had quarrelled
a great deal, the infant was cut in two, and Vatea, the husband of Papa, "took the upper part
as his share, and forthwith squeezed it into a ball and tossed it into the heavens, where it
became the sun." But Tonga-iti, in sullen humour, let his half remain on the ground for a day
or two. Afterward, however, "seeing the brightness of Vatea's half, he resolved to imitate
his example by compressing his share into a ball, and tossing it into the dark sky during the
absence of the sun in Avaiki, or netherworld." It became the moon, which is so pale by reason
of "the blood having all drained out and decomposition having commenced," before Tonga-iti
threw his half up into the sky (458. 45). With other primitive peoples, too, the gods were
infanticidal, and many nations like those of Asia Minor, who offered up the virginity of their
daughters upon the altars of their deities, hesitated not to slay upon their high places the
first innocent pledges of motherhood.

The earth-goddess appears again when the child enters upon manhood, for at Brahman marriages
in India, the bridegroom still says to the bride, "I am the sky, thou art the earth, come let
us marry" (421. 29).

And last of all, when the ineluctable struggle of death is over, man returns to the "mother-earth"--dust
to dust. One of the hymns of the Rig-Veda has these beautiful words, forming part of the funeral
ceremonies of the old Hindus:--

 "Approach thou now the lap of Earth, thy mother,
    The wide-extending Earth, the ever-kindly;
  A maiden soft as wool to him who comes with gifts,
    She shall protect thee from destruction's bosom.

 "Open thyself, O Earth, and press not heavily;
    Be easy of access and of approach to him,
  As mother with her robe her child,
    So do thou cover him, O Earth!" (421. 31).

The study of the mortuary rites and customs of the primitive peoples of all ages of the world's
history (548) reveals many instances of the belief that when men, "the common growth of mother-earth,"
at last rest their heads upon her lap, they do not wholly die, for the immortality of Earth
is theirs. As of old, the story ran that man grew into being from the dust, or sprang forth
in god-like majesty, so, when death has come, he sinks to dust again, or triumphantly scales
the lofty heights where dwell the immortal deities, and becomes "as one of them."

With the idea of the earth-mother are connected the numerous myths of the origin of the first
human beings from clay, mould, etc., their provenience from caves, holes in the ground, rocks
and mountains, especially those in which the woman is said to have been created first (509.
110). Here belong also not a few ethnic names, for many primitive peoples have seen fit to
call themselves "sons of the soil, terrae filii, Landesleute."

Muller and Brinton have much to say of the American earth-goddesses, Toci, "our mother," and
goddess of childbirth among the ancient Mexicans (509. 494); the Peruvian Pachamama, "mother-earth,"
the mother of men (509. 369); the "earth-mother" of the Caribs, who through earthquakes manifests
her animation and cheerfulness to her children, the Indians, who forthwith imitate her in joyous
dances (509. 221); the "mother-earth" of the Shawnees, of whom the Indian chief spoke, when
he was bidden to regard General Harrison as "Father": "No, the sun yonder is my father, and
the earth my mother; upon her bosom will I repose," etc. (509. 117).

Among the earth-goddesses of ancient Greece and Rome are Demeter, Ceres, Tellus, Rhea, Terra,
Ops, Cybele, Bona Dea, Bona Mater, Magna Mater, Gaea, Ge, whose attributes and ceremonies are
described in the books of classical mythology. Many times they are termed "mother of the gods"
and "mother of men"; Cybele is sometimes represented as a woman advanced in pregnancy or as
a woman with many breasts; Rhea, or Cybele, as the hill-enthroned protectress of cities, was
styled Mater turrita.

The ancient Teutons had their Hertha, or Erdemutter, the Nertha of Tacitus, and fragments of
the primitive earth-worship linger yet among the folk of kindred stock. The Slavonic peoples
had their "earth-mother" also.

The ancient Indian Aryans worshipped Prithivi-matar, "earth-mother," and Dyaus pitar, "sky-father,"
and in China, Yang, Sky, is regarded as the "father of all things," while Yu, Earth, is the
"mother of all things."

Among the ancient Egyptians the "earth-mother," the "parent of all things born," was Isis,
the wife of the great Osiris. The natal ceremonies of the Indians of the Sia Pueblo have been
described at great length by Mrs. Stevenson (538. 132-143). Before the mother is delivered
of her child the priest repeats in a low tone the following prayer:--

"Here is the child's sand-bed. May the child have good thoughts and know its mother-earth,
the giver of food. May it have good thoughts and grow from childhood to manhood. May the child
be beautiful and happy. Here is the child's bed; may the child be beautiful and happy. Ashes
man, let me make good medicine for the child. We will receive the child into our arms, that
it may be happy and contented. May it grow from childhood to manhood. May it know its mother
Ct'set [the first created woman], the Ko'pishtaia, and its mother-earth. May the child have
good thoughts and grow from childhood to manhood. May it be beautiful and happy" (538. 134).

On the fourth morning after the birth of the child, the doctress in attendance, "stooping until
she almost sits on the ground, bares the child's head as she holds it toward the rising sun,
and repeats a long prayer, and, addressing the child, she says: 'I bring you to see your Sun-father
and Ko'pishtaia, that you may know them and they you'" (538. 141).

Mother-Mountain.

Though we are now accustomed, by reason of their grandeur and sublimity, to personify mountains
as masculine, the old fable of Phadrus about the "mountain in labour, that brought forth a
mouse,"--as Horace has it, Montes laborabant et parturitur ridiculus mus,--shows that another
concept was not unknown to the ancients. The Armenians call Mount Ararat "Mother of the World"
(500. 39), and the Spaniards speak of a chief range of mountains as Sierra Madre. In mining
we meet with the "mother-lode," veta, madre, but, curiously enough, the main shaft is called
in German Vaterschacht.

We know that the Lapps and some other primitive peoples "transferred to stones the domestic
relations of father, mother, and child," or regarded them as children of Mother-Earth (529.
64); "eggs of the earth" they are called in the magic songs of the Finns. In Suffolk, England,
"conglomerate is called 'mother of stones,' under the idea that pebbles are born of it"; in
Germany Mutterstein. And in litholatry, in various parts of the globe, we have ideas which
spring from like conceptions.

Mother-Night.

Milton speaks of the "wide womb of uncreate night," and some of the ancient classical poets
call Nox "the mother of all things, of gods as well as men." "The Night is Mother of the Day,"
says Whittier, and the myth he revives is an old and wide-spread one. "Out of Night is born
day, as a child comes forth from the womb of his mother," said the Greek and Roman of old.
As Bachofen (6. 16, 219) remarks: "Das Mutterthum verbindet sich mit der Idee der den Tag aus
sich gebierenden Nacht, wie das Vaterrecht dem Reiche des Lichts, dem von der Sonne mit der
Mutter Nacht gezeugten Tage." Darkness, Night, Earth, Motherhood, seem all akin in the dim
light of primitive philosophy. Yet night is not always figured as a woman. James Ferguson,
the Scotch poet, tells us how

  "Auld Daddy Darkness creeps frae his hole,
  Black as a blackamoor, blin' as a mole,"

and holds dominion over earth till "Wee Davie Daylicht comes keekin' owre the hill" (230. 73).

An old Anglo-Saxon name for Christinas was modra-neht, "mother's night."

Mother-Dawn.

In Sanskrit mythology Ushas, "Dawn," is daughter of Heaven, and poetically she is represented
as "a young wife awakening her children and giving them new strength for the toils of the new day."

Sometimes she is termed gavam ganitri, "the mother of the cows," which latter mythologists
consider to be either "the clouds which pour water on the fields, or the bright mornings which,
like cows, are supposed to step out one by one from the stable of the night" (510. 431). (421. 29).

This daughter of the sky was the "lengthener of life, the love of all, the giver of food, riches,
blessings." According to Dr. Brinton, the Quiche Indians of Guatemala speak of Xmucane and
Xpiyacoc as being "the great ancestress and the great ancestor" of all things. The former is
called r'atit zih, r'atit zak, "primal mother of the sun and light" (411. 119).

Mother-Days.

In Russia we meet with the days of the week as "mothers." Perhaps the most remarkable of these
is "Mother Friday," a curious product of the mingling of Christian hagiology and Slavonic mythology,
of St. Prascovia and the goddess Siwa. On the day sacred to her, "Mother Friday" wanders about
the houses of the peasants, avenging herself on such as have been so rash as to sew, spin,
weave, etc., on a Friday (520. 206).

In a Wallachian tale appear three supernatural females,--the holy mothers Friday, Wednesday,
and Sunday,--who assist the hero in his quest of the heroine, and in another Wallachian story
they help a wife to find her lost husband.

"Mother Sunday" is said "to rule the animal world, and can collect her subjects by playing
on a magic flute. She is represented as exercising authority over both birds and beasts, and
in a Slovak story she bestows on the hero a magic horse" (520. 211). In Bulgaria we even find
mother-months, and Miss Garnett has given an account of the superstition of "Mother March"
among the women of that country (61.I. 330). William Miller, the poet-laureate of the nursery,
sings of Lady Summer:--

  "Birdie, birdie, weet your whistle!
     Sing a sang to please the wean;
   Let it be o' Lady Summer
     Walking wi' her gallant train!
   Sing him how her gaucy mantle,
     Forest-green, trails ower the lea,
   Broider'd frae the dewy hem o't
     Wi' the field flowers to the knee!

  "How her foot's wi' daisies buskit,
    Kirtle o' the primrose hue,
   And her e'e sae like my laddie's,
     Glancing, laughing, loving blue!
   How we meet on hill and valley,
     Children sweet as fairest flowers,
   Buds and blossoms o' affection,
     Rosy wi' the sunny hours" (230. 161).

Mother-Sun.

In certain languages, as in Modern German, the word for "sun" is feminine, and in mythology
the orb of day often appears as a woman. The German peasant was wont to address the sun and
the moon familiarly as "Frau Sonne" and "Herr Mond," and in a Russian folk-song a fair maiden
sings (520. 184):--

  "My mother is the beauteous Sun,
   And my father, the bright Moon;
   My brothers are the many Stars,
   And my sisters the white Dawns."

Jean Paul beautifully terms the sun "Sonne, du Mutterauge der Welt!" and Holty sings: "Geh
aus deinem Gezelt, Mutter des Tags hervor, und vergulde die wache Welt"; in another passage
the last writer thus apostrophizes the sun: "Heil dir, Mutter des Lichts!" These terms "mother-eye
of the world," "mother of day," "mother of light," find analogues in other tongues. The Andaman
Islanders have their chan-a bo-do, "mother-sun" (498. 96), and certain Indians of Brazil call
the sun coaracy, "mother of the day or earth." In their sacred language the Dakota Indians
speak of the sun as "grandmother" and the moon as "grandfather." The Chiquito Indians "used
to call the sun their mother, and, at every eclipse of the sun, they would shoot their arrows
so as to wound it; they would let loose their dogs, who, they thought, went instantly to devour
the moon" (100. 289).

The Yuchi Indians called themselves "children of the sun." Dr. Gatschet tells us: "The Yuchis
believe themselves to be the offspring of the sun, which they consider to be a female. According
to one myth, a couple of human beings were born from her monthly efflux, and from, these the
Yuchis afterward originated." Another myth of the same people says: "An unknown mysterious
being once came down upon the earth and met people there who were the ancestors of the Yuchi
Indians. To them this being (Hi'ki, or Ka'la hi'ki) taught many of the arts of life, and in
matters of religion admonished them to call the sun their mother as a matter of worship" (389
(1893). 280).

Mother-Moon. The moon-goddesses of the Orient--Diana (Juno), Astarte, Anahita, etc.--preside
over the beginnings of human life. Not a few primitive peoples have thought of the moon as
mother. The ancient Peruvians worshipped Mama-Quilla, "mother-moon," and the Hurons regarded
Ataensic, the mother or grandmother of Jouskeha, the sun, as the "creatress of earth and man,"
as well as the goddess of death and of the souls of the departed (509. 363). The Tarahumari
Indians of the Sierra of Chihuahua, Mexico, call the sun au-nau-ru-a-mi, "high father," and
the moon, je-ru-a-mi, "high mother." The Tupi Indians of Brazil term the moon jacy, "our mother,"
and the same name occurs in the Omagua and other members of this linguistic stock. The Muzo
Indians believe that the sun is their father and the moon their mother (529. 95).

Horace calls the moon siderum regina, and Apuleius, regina coeli, and Milton writes of

  "mooned Ashtaroth,
  Heaven's queen and mother both."

Froebel's verses, "The Little Girl and the Stars," are stated to be based upon the exclamation
of the child when seeing two large stars close together in the heavens, "Father-Mother-Star,"
and a further instance of like nature is cited where the child applied the word "mother" to
the moon.

Mother-Fire.

An ancient Greek philosopher, Heraclitus of Ephesus, taught that the world was created from
fire, the omnipotent and omniscient essence, and with many savage and barbaric peoples fire-worship
has nourished or still flourishes. The Indie Aryans of old produced fire by the method of the
twirling stick, and in their symbolism "the turning stick, Pramanta, was the father of the
god of fire; the immovable stick was the mother of the adorable and luminous Agni [fire]"--a
concept far-reaching in its mystic and mythological relations (100. 564).

According to Mr. Gushing the Zuni Indians term fire the "Grandmother of Men."

In their examination of the burial-places of the ancient Indian population of the Salado River
Valley in Arizona, the Hemenway Exploring Expedition found that many children were buried near
the kitchen hearths. Mr. Cushing offers the following explanation of this custom, which finds
analogies in various parts of the world: "The matriarchal grandmother, or matron of the household
deities, is the fire. It is considered the guardian, as it is also, being used for cooking,
the principal 'source of life' of the family. The little children being considered unable to
care for themselves, were placed, literally, under the protection of the family fire that their
soul-life might be nourished, sustained, and increased" (501. 149). Boecler tells us that the
Esthonian bride "consecrates her new home and hearth by an offering of money cast into the
fire, or laid on the oven, for Tule-ema, [the] Fire Mother" (545. II. 285). In a Mongolian
wedding-song there is an invocation of "Mother Ut, Queen of Fire," who is said to have come
forth "when heaven and earth divided," and to have issued "from the footsteps of Mother-Earth."
She is further said to have "a manly son, a beauteous daughter-in-law, bright daughters" (484. 38).

Mother-Water.

The poet Homer and the philosopher Thales of Miletus agreed in regarding water as the primal
element, the original of all existences, and their theory has supporters among many primitive
peoples. At the baptism festivals of their children, the ancient Mexicans recognized the goddess
of the waters. At sunrise the midwife addressed the child, saying, among other things: "Be
cleansed with thy mother, Chalchihuitlicue, the goddess of water." Then, placing her dripping
finger upon the child's lips, she continued: "Take this, for on it thou must live, grow, become
strong, and flourish. Through it we receive all our needs. Take it." And, again, "We are all
in the hands of Chalchihuitlicue, our mother"; as she washed the child she uttered the formula:
"Bad, whatever thou art, depart, vanish, for the child lives anew and is born again; it is
once more cleansed, once more renewed through our mother Chalchihuitlicue." As she lifted the
child up into the air, she prayed, "O Goddess, Mother of Water, fill this child with thy power
and virtue" (326. I. 263).

In their invocation for the restoration of the spirit to the body, the Nagualists,--a native
American mystic sect,--of Mexico and Central America, make appeal to "Mother mine, whose robe
is of precious gems," i.e. water, regarded as "the universal mother." The "robe of precious
stones" refers to "the green or vegetable life" resembling the green of precious stones. Another
of her names is the "Green Woman,"--a term drawn from "the greenness which follows moisture"
(413. 52-54).

The idea of water as the source of all things appears also in the cosmology of the Indie Aryans.
In one of the Vedic hymns it is stated that water existed before even the gods came into being,
and the Rig-veda tells us that "the waters contained a germ from which everything else sprang
forth." This is plainly a myth of the motherhood of the waters, for in the Brahmanas we are
told that from the water arose an egg, from which came forth after a year Pragapati, the creator
(510. 248). Variants of this myth of the cosmic egg are found in other quarters of the globe.

Mother-Ocean.

The Chinchas of Peru looked upon the sea as the chief deity and the mother of all things, and
the Peruvians worshipped Mama-Cocha, "mother sea" (509. 368), from which had come forth everything,
even animals, giants, and the Indians themselves. Associated with Mama-Cocha was the god Vira-Cocha,
"sea-foam." In Peru water was revered everywhere,--rivers and canals, fountains and wells,--and
many sacrifices were made to them, especially of certain sea-shells which were thought to be
"daughters of the sea, the mother of all waters." The traditions of the Incas point to an origin
from Lake Titicaca, and other tribes fabled their descent from fountains and streams (412.
204). Here belong, doubtless, some of the myths of the sea-born deities of classical mythology
as well as those of the water-origin of the first of the human race, together with kindred
conceits of other primitive peoples.

In the Bengalese tale of "The Boy with the Moon on his Forehead," recorded by Day, the hero
pleads: "O mother Ocean, please make way for me, or else I die" (426. 250), and passes on in
safety. The poet Swinburne calls the sea "fair, white mother," "green-girdled mother," "great,
sweet mother, mother and lover of men, the sea."

Mother-River.

According to Russian legend "the Dnieper, Volga, and Dvina used once to be living people. The
Dnieper was a boy, and the Volga and Dvina his sisters." The Russians call their great river
"Mother Volga," and it is said that, in the seventeenth century, a chief of the Don Cossacks,
inflamed with wine, sacrificed to the mighty stream a Persian princess, accompanying his action
with these words: "O Mother Volga, thou great River! much hast thou given me of gold and of
silver, and of all good things; thou hast nursed me and nourished me, and covered me with glory
and honor. But I have in no way shown thee my gratitude. Here is somewhat for thee; take it!"
(520. 217-220).

In the Mahabharata, the great Sanskrit epic, King Santanu is said to have walked by the side
of the river one day, where "he met and fell in love with a beautiful girl, who told him that
she was the river Ganges, and could only marry him on condition he never questioned her conduct.
To this he, with a truly royal gallantry, agreed; and she bore him several children, all of
whom she threw into the river as soon as they were born. At last she bore him a boy, Bhishma;
and her husband begged her to spare his life, whereupon she instantly changed into the river
Ganges and flowed away" (258. 317). Similar folk-tales are to be met with in other parts of
the world, and the list of water-sprites and river-goddesses is almost endless. Greater than
"Mother Volga," is "Mother Ganges," to whom countless sacrifices have been made. In the language
of the Caddo Indians, the Mississippi is called bahat sassin, "mother of rivers."

Mother-Plant.

The ancient Peruvians had their "Mother Maize," Mama Cora, which they worshipped with a sort
of harvest-home having, as Andrew Lang points out, something in common with the children's
last sheaf, in the north-country (English and Scotch) "kernaby," as well as with the "Demeter
of the threshing-floor," of whom Theocritus speaks (484. 18).

An interesting legend of the Indians of the Pueblos of Arizona and New Mexico is recorded by
Muller (509. 60). Ages ago there dwelt on the green plains a beautiful woman, who refused all
wooers, though they brought many precious gifts. It came to pass that the land was sore distressed
by dearth and famine, and when the people appealed to the woman she gave them maize in plenty.
One day, she lay asleep naked; a rain-drop falling upon her breast, she conceived and bore
a son, from whom are descended the people who built the "Casas Grandes." Dr. Fewkes cites a
like myth of the Hopi or Tusayan Indians in which appears ko-kyan-wuq-ti, "the spider woman,"
a character possessing certain attributes of the Earth-Mother. Speaking of certain ceremonies
in which Ca-li-ko, the corn-goddess, figures, he calls attention to the fact that "in initiations
an ear of corn is given to the novice as a symbolic representation of mother. The corn is the
mother of all initiated persons of the tribe" (389 (1894). 48).

Mr. Lummis also speaks of "Mother Corn" among the Pueblos Indians: "A flawless ear of pure
white corn (type of fertility and motherhood) is decked out with a downy mass of snow-white
feathers, and hung with ornaments of silver, coral, and the precious turquoise" (302. 72).

Concerning the Pawnee Indians, Mr. Grinnell tells us that after the separation of the peoples,
the boy (medicine-man) who was with the few who still remained at the place from which the
others had departed, going their different ways, found in the sacred bundle--the Shekinah of
the tribe--an ear of corn. To the people he said: "We are to live by this, this is our Mother."
And from "Mother Corn" the Indians learned how to make bows and arrows. When these Indians
separated into three bands (according to the legend), the boy broke off the nub of the ear
and gave it to the Mandans, the big end he gave to the Pawnees, and the middle to the Rees.
This is why, at the present time, the Pawnees have the best and largest corn, the Rees somewhat
inferior, and the Mandans the shortest of all--since they planted the pieces originally given
them (480 (1893). 125).

The old Mexicans had in Cinteotl a corn-goddess and deity of fertility in whose honour even
human sacrifices were made. She was looked upon as "the producer," especially of children,
and sometimes represented with a child in her arms (509. 491).

In India there is a regular cult of the holy basil (Ocymum sanetum), or Tulasi, as it is called,
which appears to be a transformation of the goddess Lakshmi. It may be gathered for pious purposes
only, and in so doing the following prayer is offered: "Mother Tulasi, be thou propitious.
If I gather thee with care, be merciful unto me. O Tulasi, mother of the world, I beseech thee."
This plant is worshipped as a deity,--the wife of Vishnu, whom the breaking of even a little
twig grieves and torments,--and "the pious Hindus invoke the divine herb for the protection
of every part of the body, for life and for death, and in every action of life; but above all,
in its capacity of ensuring children to those who desire to have them." To him who thoughtlessly
or wilfully pulls up the plant "no happiness, no health, no children." The Tulasi opens the
gates of heaven; hence on the breast of the pious dead is placed a leaf of basil, and the Hindu
"who has religiously planted and cultivated the Tulasi, obtains the privilege of ascending
to the palace of Vishnu, surrounded by ten millions of parents" (448. 244).

In Denmark, there is a popular belief that in the elder (Sambucus) there lives a spirit or
being known as the "elder-mother" (hylde-moer), or "elder-woman" (hilde-qvinde), and before
elder-branches may be cut this petition is uttered: "Elder-mother, elder-mother, allow me to
cut thy branches." In Lower Saxony the peasant repeats, on bended knees, with hands folded,
three times the words: "Lady Elder, give me some of thy wood; then will I also give thee some
of mine, when it grows in the forest" (448. 318-320). In Huntingdonshire, England, the belief
in the "elder-mother" is found, and it is thought dangerous to pluck the flowers, while elder-wood,
in a room, or used for a cradle, is apt to work evil for children. In some parts of England,
it is believed that boys beaten with an elder stick will be retarded in their growth; in Sweden,
women who are about to become mothers kiss the elder. In Germany, a somewhat similar personification
of the juniper, "Frau Wachholder," exists. And here we come into touch with the dryads and
forest-sprites of all ages, familiar to us in the myths of classic antiquity and the tales
of the nursery (448. 396).

In a Bengalese tale, the hero, on coming to a forest, cries: "O mother kachiri, please make
way for me, or else I die," and the wood opens to let him pass through (426. 250).

Perhaps the best and sweetest story of plant mythology under this head is Hans Christian Andersen's
beautiful tale of "The Elder-Tree Mother,"--the Dryad whose name is Remembrance (393. 215).

Mother-Thumb.

Our word thumb signifies literally "thick or big finger," and the same idea occurs in other
languages. With not a few primitive peoples this thought takes another turn, and, as in the
speech of the Karankawas, an extinct Indian tribe of Texas, "the biggest, or thickest finger
is called 'father, mother, or old'" (456. 68). The Creek Indians of the Southeastern United
States term the "thumb" ingi itchki, "the hand its mother," and a like meaning attaches to
the Chickasaw ilbak-ishke, Hichiti ilb-iki, while the Muskogees call the "thumb," the "mother
of fingers." It is worthy of note, that, in the Bakairi language of Brazil, the thumb is called
"father," and the little finger, "child," or "little one" (536. 406). In Samoa the "thumb"
is named lima-matua, "forefather of the hand," and the "first finger" lima-tama, "child of
the hand." In the Tshi language of Western Africa a finger is known as ensah-tsia-abbah, "little
child of the hand," and in some other tongues of savage or barbaric peoples "fingers" are simply
"children of the hand."

Professor Culin in his notes of "Palmistry in China and Japan," says: "The thumb, called in
Japanese, oya-ubi, 'parent-finger,' is for parents. The little finger, called in Japanese,
ko-ubi, 'child-finger,' is for children; the index-finger is for uncle, aunt, and elder brother
and elder sister. The third finger is for younger brother and younger sister" (423a). A short
little finger indicates childlessness, and lines on the palm of the hand, below the little
finger, children. There are very many nursery-games and rhymes of various sorts based upon
the hand and fingers, and in not a few of these the thumb and fingers play the role of mother
and children. Froebel seized upon this thought to teach the child the idea of the family. His
verses are well-known:--

 "Das ist die Groszmama,
  Das ist der Groszpapa,
  Das ist der Vater,
  Das ist die Mutter,
  Das ist's kleine Kindchen ja;
  Seht die ganze Familie da.
  Das ist die Mutter lieb und gut,
  Das ist der Vater mit frohem Muth;
  Das ist der Bruder lang und grosz;
  Das ist die Schwester mit Puppchen im Schoosz;
  Und dies ist das Kindchen, noch klein und zart,
  Und dies die Familie von guter Art."

Referring to Froebel's games, Elizabeth Harrison remarks:--

"In order that this activity, generally first noticed in the use of the hands, might be trained
into right and ennobling habits, rather than be allowed to degenerate into wrong and often
degrading ones, Froebel arranged his charming set of finger-games for the mother to teach her
babe while he is yet in her arms; thus establishing the right activity before the wrong one
can assert itself. In such little songs as the following:--

 'This is the mother, good and dear;
  This the father, with hearty cheer;
  This is the brother, stout and tall;
  This is the sister, who plays with her doll;
  And this is the baby, the pet of all.
  Behold the good family, great and small,'

the child is led to personify his fingers and to regard them as a small but united family over
which he has control." (257 a. 14).

Miss Wiltse, who devotes a chapter of her little volume to "Finger-songs related to Family
Life and the Imaginative Faculty," says:--

"The dawning consciousness of the child so turned to the family relations is surely better
than the old nursery method of playing 'This little pig went to market'" (384. 45).

And from the father and mother the step to God is easy.

Dr. Brewer informs us that in the Greek and Roman Church the Trinity is symbolized by the thumb
and first two fingers: "The thumb, being strong, represents the Father; the long, or second
finger, Jesus Christ; and the first finger, the Holy Ghost, which proceedeth from the Father
and the Son" (Dict. of Phrase and Fable, P. 299).

Mother-God.

The "Motherhood of God" is an expression that still sounds somewhat strangely to our ears.
We have come to speak readily enough of the "Fatherhood of God" and the "Brotherhood of Man,"
but only a still small voice has whispered of the "Motherhood of God" and the "Sisterhood of
Woman." Yet there have been in the world, as, indeed, there are now, multitudes to whom the
idea of Heaven without a mother is as blank as that of the home without her who makes it. If
over the human babe bends the human mother who is its divinity,--

  "The infant lies in blessed ease
    Upon his mother's breast;
  No storm, no dark, the baby sees
    Invade his heaven of rest.
  He nothing knows of change or death--
    Her face his holy skies;
  The air he breathes, his mother's breath--
    His stars, his mother's eyes,"--

so over the infant-race must bend the All-Mother, das Ewigweibliche. Perhaps the greatest service
that the Roman Catholic Church has rendered to mankind is the prominence given in its cult
of the Virgin Mary to the mother-side of Deity. In the race's final concept of God, the embodiment
of all that is pure and holy, there must surely be some overshadowing of a mother's tender
love. With the "Father-Heart" of the Almighty must be linked the "Mother-Soul." To some extent,
at least, we may expect a harking back to the standpoint of the Buddhist Kalmuck, whose child
is taught to pray: "O God, who art my father and my mother."

In all ages and over the whole world peoples of culture less than ours have had their "mother-gods,"
all the embodiments of motherhood, the joy of the Magnificat, the sacrosanct expression of
the poet's truth:--

  "Close to the mysteries of God art thou,
  My brooding mother-heart,"

the recognition of that outlasting secret hope and love, of which the Gospel writer told in
the simple words: "Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother," and faith in which was
strong in the Mesopotamians of old, who prayed to the goddess Istar, "May thy heart be appeased
as the heart of a mother who has borne children." The world is at its best when the last, holiest
appeal is ad matrem. Professor O.T. Mason has eloquently stated the debt of the world's religions
to motherhood (112. So we may go through the pantheons of all peoples, finding counterparts
of Rhea, mother-earth, goddess of fertility; Hera, queen of harvests, feeder of mankind; Hestia,
goddess of the hearth and home, of families and states, giving life and warmth; Aphrodite,
the beautiful, patron of romantic love and personal charms; Hera, sovereign lady, divine caciquess,
embodiment of queenly dignity; Pallas Athene, ideal image of that central inspiring force that
we learn at our mother's knee, and that shone in eternal splendour; Isis, the goddess of widowhood,
sending forth her son Horus, to avenge the death of his father, Osiris; as moon-goddess, keeping
alive the light until the sun rises again to bless the world."

The All-Mother.

In Polynesian mythology we find, dwelling in the lowest depths of Avaiki (the interior of the
universe), the "Great Mother,"--the originator of all things, Vari-ma-te-takere, "the very
beginning,"--and her pet child, Tu-metua, "Stick by the parent," her last offspring, inseparable
from her. All of her children were born of pieces of flesh which she plucked off her own body;
the first-born was the man-fish Vatea, "father of gods and men," whose one eye is the sun,
the other the moon; the fifth child was Raka, to whom his mother gave the winds in a basket,
and "the children of Raka are the numerous winds and storms which distress mankind. To each
child is allotted a hole at the edge of the horizon, through which he blows at pleasure." In
the songs the gods are termed "the children of Vatea," and the ocean is sometimes called "the
sea of Vatea." Mr. Gill tells us that "the Great Mother approximates nearest to the dignity
of creator"; and, curiously enough, the word Vari, "beginning," signifies, on the island of
Rarotonga, "mud," showing that "these people imagined that once the world was a 'chaos of mud,'
out of which some mighty unseen agent, whom they called Vari, evolved the present order of
things" (458. 3, 21).

Another "All-Mother" is she of whom our own poets have sung, "Nature," the source and sustainer
of all.

Mother-Nature.

"So ubt Natur die Mutterpflicht," sang the poet Schiller, and "Mother Nature" is the key-word
of those modern poets who, in their mystic philosophy, consciously or unconsciously, revive
the old mythologies. With primitive peoples the being, growing power of the universe was easily
conceived as feminine and as motherly. Nature is the "great parent," the "gracious mother,"
of us all. In "Mother Nature," woman, the creator of the earliest arts of man, is recognized
and personified, and in a wider sense even than the poet dreamt of: "One touch of Nature makes
the whole world kin."

Pindar declared that "gods and men are sons of the same mother," and with many savage and barbaric
tribes, gods, men, animals, and all other objects, animate and inanimate, are akin(388.210).
As Professor Robertson Smith has said: "The same lack of any sharp distinction between the
nature of different kinds of visible beings appears in the old myths in which all kinds of
objects, animate and inanimate, organic and inorganic, appear as cognate with one another,
with men, and with the gods" (535.85). Mr. Hartland, speaking of this stage of thought, says:
"Sun and moon, the wind and the waters, perform all the functions of living beings; they speak,
they eat, they marry and have children" (258.26). The same idea is brought out by Count D'Alviella:
"The highest point of development that polytheism could reach, is found in the conception of
a monarchy or divine family, embracing all terrestrial beings, and even the whole universe"
(388.211). Mr. Frank Cushing attributes like beliefs in the kinship of all existences to the
Zuni Indians (388.66), and Mr. im Thurn to the Indians of Guiana (388.99).

This feeling of kinship to all that is, is beautifully expressed in the words of the dying
Greek Klepht: "Do not say that I am dead, but say that I am married in the sorrowful, strange
countries, that I have taken the flat stone for a mother-in-law, the black earth for my wife,
and the little pebbles for brothers-in-law." (Lady Verney, Essays, II. 39.)

In the Trinity of Upper Egypt the second person was Mut, "Mother Nature." the others being
Armin, the chief god, and their son, Khuns.

Among the Slavs, according to Mone, Ziwa is a nature-goddess, and the Wends regard her as "many-breasted
Mother Nature," the producing and nourishing power of the earth. Her consort is Zibog, the
god of life (125. II. 23).

Curiously reminiscent of the same train of ideas which has given to the moderson of Low German
the signification of "bastard," is our own equivalent term "natural son."

Through the long centuries Nature has been the mother, nurse, and teacher of man.

Other Mother-Goddesses.

Among other "mother-goddesses" of ancient Italy we find Maia Mater, Flora Mater, both deities
of growth and reproduction; Lua Mater, "the loosing mother," a goddess of death; Acca Larentia,
the mother of the Lares (Acca perhaps = Atta, a child-word for mother, as Lippert suggests);
Mater matuta, "mother of the dawn," a goddess of child-birth, worshipped especially by married
women, and to whom there was erected a temple at Care.

The mother-goddesses of Germany are quite numerous. Among those minor ones cited by Grimm and
Simrock, are: Haulemutter, Mutter Holle, the Klagemutter or Klagemuhmen, Pudelmutter (a name
applied to the goddess Berchta), Etelmutter, Kornmutter, Roggenmutter, Mutterkorn, and the
interesting Buschgroszmutter, "bush grandmother," as the "Queen of the Wood-Folk" is called.
Here the mother-feeling has been so strong as to grant to even the devil a mother and a grandmother,
who figure in many proverbs and folk-locutions. When the question is asked a Mecklenburger,
concerning a social gathering: "Who was there?" he may answer: "The devil and his mother (mom)";
when a whirlwind occurs, the saying is: "The Devil is dancing with his grandmother."

In China the position of woman is very low, and, as Mr. Douglas points out: "It is only when
a woman becomes a mother that she receives the respect which is by right due to her, and then
the inferiority of her sex disappears before the requirements of filial love, which is the
crown and glory of China" (434. 125).

In Chinese cosmogony and mythology motherhood finds recognition. Besides the great Earth-Mother,
we meet with Se-wang-moo, the "Western Royal Mother," a goddess of fairy-land, and the "Mother
of Lightning," thunder being considered the "father and teacher of all living beings." Lieh-tze,
a philosopher of the fifth century B.C., taught: "My body is not my own; I am merely an inhabitant
of it for the time being, and shall resign it when I return to the 'Abyss Mother'" (434. 222,
225, 277).

In the Flowery Kingdom there is also a sect "who worship the goddess Pity, in the form of a
woman holding a child in her arms."

Among the deities and semi-deities of the Andaman Islanders are chan.a.e.lewadi, the "mother
of the race,"--Mother E.lewadi; chan.a.erep, chan.a.cha.ria, chan.a.te.liu, chan.a.li.mi, chan.a.jar.a.ngud,
all inventors and discoverers of foods and the arts. In the religious system of the Andaman
Islanders, Pu.luga-, the Supreme Being, by whom were created "the world and all objects, animate
and inanimate, excepting only the powers of evil," and of whom it is said, "though his appearance
is like fire, yet he is (nowadays) invisible," is "believed to live in a large stone house
in the sky with a wife whom he created for himself; she is green in appearance, and has two
names, chan.a.au.lola (Mother Freshwater Shrimp) and chan.a.pa.lak---(Mother Eel); by her he
has a large family, all except the eldest being girls; these last, known as mo.ro-win-- (sky-spirits
or angels), are said to be black in appearance, and, with their mother, amuse themselves from
time to time by throwing fish and prawns into the streams and sea for the use of the inhabitants
of the world" (498. 90). With these people also the first woman was chan.a.e.lewadi (Mother
E-lewadi), the ancestress of the present race of natives. She was drowned, while canoeing,
and "became a small crab of a description still named after her e.lewadi" (498. 96):

Quite frequently we find that primitive peoples have ascribed the origin of the arts or of
the good things of life to women whom they have canonized as saints or apotheosized into deities.

We may close our consideration of motherhood and what it has given the world with the apt words
of Zmigrodzki:--

"The history of the civilization (Kulturgeschichte) of our race, is, so to speak, the history
of the mother-influence. Our ideas of morality, justice, order, all these are simply mother-ideas.
The mother began our culture in that epoch in which, like the man, she was autodidactic. In
the epoch of the Church Fathers, the highly educated mother saved our civilization and gave
it a new turn, and only the highly educated mother will save us out of the moral corruption
of our age. Taken individually also, we can mark the ennobling, elevating influence which educated
mothers have exercised over our great men. Let us strive as much as possible to have highly
accomplished mothers, wives, friends, and then the wounds which we receive in the struggle
for life will not bleed as they do now" (174. 367).

The history of civilization is the story of the mother, a story that stales not with repetition.
Richter, in his Levana, makes eloquent appeal:--

"Never, never has one forgotten his pure, right-educating mother! On the blue mountains of
our dim childhood, towards which we ever turn and look, stand the mothers who marked out for
us from thence our life; the most blessed age must be forgotten ere we can forget the warmest
heart. You wish, O woman, to be ardently loved, and forever, even till death. Be, then, the
mothers of your children."

Tennyson in The Foresters uses these beautiful words: "Every man for the sake of the great
blessed Mother in heaven, and for the love of his own little mother on earth, should handle
all womankind gently, and hold them in all honour." Herein lies the whole philosophy of life.
The ancient Germans were right, who, as Tacitus tells us, saw in woman sanctum aliquid et providum,
as indeed the Modern German Weib (cognate with our wife) also declares, the original signification
of the word being "the animated, the inspirited."

CHAPTER IV.

THE CHILD'S TRIBUTE TO THE FATHER.

To you your father should be as a god.--Shakespeare.

Our Father, who art in Heaven.--Jesus.

Names of the Father.

Father, like mother, is a very old word, and goes back, with the cognate terms in Italic, Hellenic,
Teutonic, Celtic, Slavonic, and Indo-Aryan speech, to the primitive Indo-European language,
and, like mother, it is of uncertain etymology.

An English preacher of the twelfth century sought to derive the word from the Anglo-Saxon fedan,
"to feed," making the "father" to be the "feeder" or "nourisher," and some more modern attempts
at explanation are hardly better. This etymology, however incorrect, as it certainly is, in
English, does find analogies in the tongues of primitive peoples. In the language of the Klamath
Indians, of Oregon, the word for "father" is t'shishap (in the Modoc dialect, p'tishap), meaning
"feeder, nourisher," from a radical tshi, which signifies "to give somebody liquid food (as
milk, water)." Whether there is any real connection between our word pap,--with its cognates
in other languages,--which signifies "food for infants," as well as "teat, breast," and the
child-word papa, "father," is doubtful, and the same may be said of the attempt to find a relation
between teat, tit, etc., and the widespread child-words for "father," tat, dad. Wedgewood (Introd.
to Dictionary), however, maintained that: "Words formed of the simplest articulations, ma and
pa, are used to designate the objects in which the infant takes the earliest interest,--the
mother, the father, the mother's breast, the act of taking or sucking food." Tylor also points
out how, in the language of children of to-day, we may find a key to the origin of a mass of
words for "father, mother, grandmother, aunt, child, breast, toy, doll," etc. From the limited
supply of material at the disposal of the early speakers of a language, we can readily understand
how the same sound had to serve for the connotation of different ideas; this is why "mama means
in one tongue mother, in another father, in a third, uncle; dada in one language father, in
a second nurse, in another breast; tata in one language father, in another son," etc. The primitive
Indo-European p-tr, Skeat takes to be formed, with the agent-suffix tr, from the radical pa,
"to protect, to guard,"--the father having been originally looked upon as the "protector,"
or "guarder." Max Muller, who offers the same derivation, remarks: "The father, as begetter,
was called in Sanskrit ganitar, as protector and supporter of his posterity, however, pitar.
For this reason, in the Veda both names together are used in order to give the complete idea
of 'father.' In like manner, matar, 'mother,' is joined with ganit, 'genetrix,' and this shows
that the word matar must have soon lost its etymological signification and come to be a term,
of respect and caress. With the oldest Indo-Europeans, matar meant 'maker,' from ma, 'to form.'"

Kluge, however, seems to reject the interpretation "protector, defender," and to see in the
word a derivative from the "nature-sound" pa. So also Westermarck (166. 86-94). In Gothic,
presumably the oldest of the Teutonic dialects, the most common word for "father" is atta,
still seen in the name of the far-famed leader of the Huns, Attila, i.e. "little father," and
in the atti of modern Swiss dialects. To the same root attach themselves Sanskrit atta, "mother,
elder sister"; Ossetic adda, "little father (Vaterchen)"; Greek arra, Latin atta, "father";
Old Slavonic oti-ci, "little father"; Old Irish aite, "foster-father." Atta belongs to the
category of "nature-words" or "nursery-words" of which our dad (daddy) is also a member.

Another member is the widespread papa, pa. Our word papa, Skeat thinks, is borrowed, through
the French, from Latin papa, found as a Roman cognomen. This goes back in all probability to
ancient Greek, for, in the Odyssey (vi. 57), Nausicaa addresses her father as [Greek: pappa
phile], "dear papa." The Papa of German is also borrowed from French, and, according to Kluge,
did not secure a firm, place in the language until comparatively late in the eighteenth century.

In some of the Semitic languages the word for "father" signifies "maker," and the same thing
occurs elsewhere among primitive people (166. 91).

As with "mother," so with "father"; in many languages a man (or a boy) does not employ the
same term as a woman (or a girl). In the Haida, Okanak'en, and Kootenay, all Indian languages
of British Columbia, the words used by males and by females are, respectively: kun, qat; lEe'u,
mistm; tito, so.

In many languages the word for "father," as is also the case with "mother," is different when
the parent is addressed from that used when he is spoken of or referred to. In the Tsimshian,
Kwakiutl, Nootka, Ntlakyapamuq, four Indian languages of British Columbia, the words for "father"
when addressed, are respectively a'bo, ats, no'we, pap, and for "father" in other cases, nEgua'at,
au'mp, nuwe'k'so, ska'tsa. Here, again, it will be noticed that the words used in address seem
shorter and more primitive in character.

In the Chinantee language of Mexico, nuh signifies at the same time "father" and "man." In
Gothic aba means both "father" and "husband" (492. 33). Here belongs also perhaps the familiar
"father" with which the New England housewife was wont to address her husband.

With many peoples the name "father" is applied to others than the male parent of the child.
The following remarks of McLennan, regarding the Tamil and Telugu of India, will stand for
not a few other primitive tribes: "All the brothers of a father are usually called fathers,
but, in strictness, those who are older than the father are called great fathers, and those
who are younger, little fathers. With the Puharies, all the brothers of a father are equally
fathers to his children." In Hawaii, the term "male parent" "applied equally to the father,
to the uncles, and even to distant relations." In Japan, the paternal uncle is called "little
father" and the maternal uncle "second little father" (100. 389, 391).

A lengthy discussion of these terms, with a wealth of illustration from many primitive languages,
will be found in Westermarck (166. 86-94).

Father-Right.

Of the Roman family it has been said: "It was a community comprising men and things. The members
were maintained by adoption as well as by consanguinity. The father was before all things the
chief, the general administrator. He was called father even when he had no son; paternity was
a question of law, not one of persons. The heir is no more than the continuing line of the
deceased person; he was heir in spite of himself for the honour of the defunct, for the lares,
the hearth, the manes, and the hereditary sepulchre" (100. 423). In ancient Rome the paterfamilias
and the patina potestas are seen in their extreme types. Letourneau remarks further: "Absolute
master, both of things and of people, the paterfamilias had the right to kill his wife and
to sell his sons. Priest and king in turn, it was he who represented the family in their domestic
worship; and when, after his death, he was laid by the side of his ancestors in the common
tomb, he was deified, and helped to swell the number of the household gods" (100. 433).

Post thus defines the system of "father-right":--

"In the system of 'father-right' the child is related only to the father and to the persons
connected with him through the male line, but not with his mother and the persons connected
with him through the female line. The narrowest group organized according to father-right consists
of the father and his children. The mother, for the most part, appears in the condition of
a slave to the husband. To the patriarchal family in the wider sense belong the children of
the sons of the father, but not the children of his daughters; the brothers and sisters of
the same father, but not those merely related to the same mother; the children of the brother
of the same father, but not the children of the sisters of the same father, etc. With every
wife the relationship ceases every time" (127. I. 24).

The system of father-right is found scattered over the whole globe. It is found among the Indo-European
peoples (Aryans of Asia, Germans, Slavs, Celts, Romans), the Mongol-Tartar tribes, Chinese,
Japanese, and some of the Semitic nations; in northern Africa and scattered through the western
part of the continent, among the Kaffirs and Hottentots; among some tribes in Australia and
Polynesia and the two Americas (the culture races).

The position of the father among those peoples with whom strict mother-right prevails is thus
sketched by Zmigrodski (174.206):--

"The only certain thing was motherhood and the maternal side of the family,--mother, daughter,
granddaughter, that was the fixed stem continuing with certainty. Father, son, grandson, were
only the leaves, which existed only until the autumnal wind of death tore them away, to hurl
them into the abyss of oblivion. In that epoch no one said, 'I am the son of such a father
and the grandson of such a grandfather,' but 'I am the son of such a mother and the grandson
of such a grandmother.' The inheritance went not to the son and grandson, but to the daughter
and to the granddaughter, and the sons received a dowry as do the daughters in our society
of to-day. In marriage the woman did not assume the name of the man, but vice versa. The husband
of a woman, although the father of her children, was considered not so near a relative of them
as the wife's brother, their uncle."

Dr. Brinton says, concerning mother-right among the Indians of North America (412. 48):--

"Her children looked upon her as their parent, but esteemed their father as no relation whatever.
An unusually kind and intelligent Kolosch Indian was chided by a missionary for allowing his
father to suffer for food. 'Let him go to his own people,' replied the Kolosch, 'they should
look after him.' He did not regard a man as in any way related or bound to his paternal parent."

In a certain Polynesian mythological tale, the hero is a young man, "the name of whose father
had never been told by his mother," and this has many modern parallels (115. 97). On the Gold
Coast of West Africa there is a proverb, "Wise is the son that knows his own father" (127.1.
24), a saying found elsewhere in the world,--indeed, we have it also in English, and Shakespeare
presents but another view of it when he tells us: "It is a wise father that knows his own child."

In many myths and folk-and fairy-tales of all peoples the discovery by the child of its parent
forms the climax, or at least one of the chief features of the plot; and we have also those
stories which tell how parents have been killed unwittingly by their own children, or children
have been slain unawares by their parents.

Father-King.

In his interesting study of "Royalty and Divinity" (75), Dr. von Held has pointed out many
resemblances between the primitive concepts "King" and "God." Both, it would seem, stand in
close connection with "Father." To quote from Dr. von Held: "Fathership (Vaterschaft, patriarcha),
lordship (Herrentum), and kingship (Konigtum) are, therefore (like rex and [Greek: Basileus]),
ideas not only linguistically, but, to even a greater degree really, cognate, having altogether
very close relationship to the word and idea 'God.' Of necessity they involve the existence
and idea of a people, and therefore are related not only to the world of faith, but also to
that of intellect and of material things."

The Emperor of China is the "father and mother of the empire," his millions of subjects being
his "children"; and the ancient Romans had no nobler title for their emperor than pater patrice,
the "father of his country," an appellation bestowed in these later days upon the immortal
first President of the United States.

In the Yajnavalkya, one of the old Sanskrit law-books, the king is bidden to be "towards servants
and subjects as a father" (75. 122), and even Mirabeau and Gregoire, in the first months of
the States-General, termed the king "le pere de tous les Franqais," while Louis XII. and Henry
IV. of France, as well as Christian III. of Denmark, had given to them the title "father of
the people." The name pater patrice was not borne by the Caesars alone, for the Roman Senate
conferred the title upon Cicero, and offered it to Marius, who refused to accept it. "Father
of his Country" was the appellation of Cosmo de' Medici, and the Genoese inscribed the same
title upon the base of the statue erected to Andrea Doria. One of the later Byzantine Emperors,
Andronicus Palaologus, even went so far as to assume this honoured title. Nor has the name
"Father of the People" been confined to kings, for it has been given also to Gabriel du Pineau,
a French lawyer of the seventeenth century.

The "divinity that doth hedge a king" and the fatherhood of the sovereign reach their acme
in Peru, where the Inca was king, father, even god, and the halo of "divine right" has not
ceased even yet to encircle the brows of the absolute monarchs of Europe and the East.

Landesvater (Vater des Volkes) is the proudest designation of the German Kaiser. "Little Father"
is alike the literal meaning of Attila, the name of the far-famed leader of the "Huns," in
the dark ages of Europe, and of batyushka, the affectionate term by which the peasant of Russia
speaks of the Czar.

Nana, "Grandfather," is the title of the king of Ashanti in Africa, and "Sire" was long in
France and England a respectful form of address to the monarch.

Some of the aboriginal tribes of America have conferred upon the President of the United States
the name of the "Great Father at Washington," the "Great White Father," and "Father" was a
term they were wont to apply to governors, generals, and other great men of the whites with
whom they came into contact.

The father as head of the family is the basis of the idea of "father-king." This is seen among
the Matchlapis, a Kaffir tribe, where "those who own a sufficient number of cattle to maintain
a family have the right to the title of chief"; this resembles the institution of the pater
familias in ancient Latium (100. 459,533).

Dr. von Held thus expresses himself upon this point: "The first, and one may say also the last,
naturally necessary society of man is the family in the manifold forms out of which it has
been historically developed. Its beginning and its apex are, under given culture-conditions,
the man who founds it, the father. What first brought man experientially to creation as a work
of love was fatherhood. This view is not altered by the fact that the father, in order to preserve,
or, what is the same, to continue to produce, to bring up, must command, force, punish. If
the family depends on no higher right, it yet appears as the first state, and then the father
appears not only as father, but also as king" (75. 119).

The occurrence to-day of "King" as a surname takes us back to a time when the head of the family
enjoyed the proud title, which the Romans conferred upon Casar Augustus, Pater et Princeps,
the natural development from Ovid's virque paterque gregis.

The Romans called their senators patres, and we now speak of the "city fathers," aldermen,
eldermen, in older English, and the "fathers" of many a primitive people are its rulers and
legislators. The term "father" we apply also to those who were monarchs and chiefs in realms
of human activity other than that of politics. Following in the footsteps of the Latins, who
spoke of Zeno as Pater stoicorum, of Herodotus as Pater historioe, and even of the host of
an inn as Pater cenoe, we speak of "fathering" an idea, a plot, and the like, and denominate
"father," the pioneer scientists, inventors, sages, poets, chroniclers of the race.

From pater the Romans derived patrimonium, patrimony, "what was inherited from the father,"
an interesting contrast to matrimonium; patronus, "patron, defender, master of slaves"; patria
(terra), "fatherland,"--Ovid uses paterna terra, and Horace speaks of paternum flumen; patricius,
"of fatherly dignity, high-born, patrician," etc. Word after word in the classic tongues speaks
of the exalted position of the father, and many of these have come into our own language through
the influence of the peoples of the Mediterranean.

Father-Priest.

Said Henry Ward Beecher: "Look at home, father-priest, mother-priest; your church is a hundred-fold
heavier responsibility than mine can be. Your priesthood is from God's own hands." The priesthood
of the father is widespread. Mr. Gomme tells us: "Certainly among the Hindus, the Greeks, the
Romans, and, so late down as Tacitus, the Germans, the house-father was priest and judge in
his own clan" (461.104). Max Muller speaks to the same effect: "If we trace religion back to
the family, the father or head of the family is ipso facto the priest. When families grew into
clans, and clans into tribes and confederacies, a necessity would arise of delegating to some
heads of families the performance of duties which, from having been the spontaneous acts of
individuals, had become the traditional acts of families and clans" (510.183). Africa, Asia,
America, furnish us abundant evidence of this. Our own language testifies to it also. We speak
of the "Fathers of the Church,"--patres, as they were called,--and the term "Father" is applied
to an ecclesiastic of the Roman Catholic Church, just as in the Romance languages of Europe
the descendants of the Latin pater (French pere, Spanish padre, Italian padre, etc.) are used
to denote the same personage. In Russian an endearing term for "priest" is batyushka, "father
dear"; the word for a village-priest, sometimes used disrespectfully, is pop. This latter name
is identical with the title of the head of the great Catholic Church, the "Holy Father," at
Rome, viz. papa, signifying literally "papa, father," given in the early days of Latin Christianity,
and the source of our word Pope and its cognates in the various tongues of modern Europe. The
head of an abbey we call an abbot, a name coming, through the Church-Latin abbas, from the
Syriac abba, "father"; here again recurs the correlation of priest and father. It is interesting
to note that both the words papa and abba, which we have just discussed, and which are of such
importance in the history of religion, are child-words for "father," bearing evidence of the
lasting influence of the child in this sphere of human activity. Among the ancient Romans we
find a pater patratus, whose duty it was to ratify treaties with the proper religious rites.
Dr. von Held is of opinion that, "in the case of a special priesthood, it is not so much the
character of its members as spiritual fathers, as their calling of servants of God, of servants
of a Father-God, which causes them to be termed fathers, papas" (75. 120).

Father-God.

Shakespeare has aptly said, in the words which Theseus addresses to the fair Hermia:--

 "To you your father should be as a god;
  One that composed your beauties, yea, and one
  To whom you are but as a form in wax,
  By him imprinted, and within his power
  To leave the figure or disfigure it,"

and widespread indeed, in the childhood of the race, has been the belief in the Fatherhood
of God. Concerning the first parents of human kind the ancient Hebrew Scripture declares: "And
God created man in His own image," and long centuries afterwards, in his memorable oration
to the wise men of Athens upon Mars' Hill, the Apostle Paul quoted with approval the words
of the Greek poet, Cleanthes, who had said: "For we are all His off-spring." Epictetus, appealing
to a master on behalf of his slaves, asked: "Wilt thou not remember over whom thou rulest,
that they are thy relations, thy brethren by nature, the offspring of Zeus?" (388.210).

At the battle of Kadshu, Rameses II., of Egypt, abandoned by his soldiers, as a last appeal,
exclaimed: "I will call upon thee, O my father Amon!" (388. 209).

Many prophets and preachers have there been who taught to men the doctrine of "God, the Father,"
but last and best of all was the "Son of Man," the Christ, who taught his disciples the world-heard
prayer: "Our Father, who art in Heaven," who pro-claimed that "in my Father's house are many
mansions," and whose words in the agony of Gethsemane were: "Abba, Father, all things are possible
unto Thee; remove this cup from me: howbeit not what I will, but what Thou wilt."

Between the Buddhist Kalmucks, with whom the newly married couple reverently utter these words:
"I incline myself this first time to my Lord God, who is my father and my mother" (518. I.
423), and the deistic philosophers of to-day there is a vast gulf, as there is also between
the idea of Deity among the Cakchiquel Indians of Guatemala, where the words for God alom and
achalom signify respectively "begetter of children," and "begetter of sons," and the modern
Christian concept of God, the Father, with His only begotten Son, the Saviour of the world.

The society of the gods of human creation has everywhere been modelled upon that of man. He
was right who said Olympus was a Greek city and Zeus a Greek father. The divine monarch or
father, however, might still be no more than the first among his peers. For the supreme god
to become the Only God, he must rise above all beings, superhuman as well as human, not only
in his power, but in his very nature" (388. 211).

Though the mythology of our Teutonic forefathers knew of the "All-Father,"--the holy Odin,--it
is from those children-loving people, the Hebrews, that our Christian conception of "God the
Father," with some modifications, is derived. As Professor Robertson Smith has pointed out,
among the Semites we find the idea of the tribal god as father strongly developed: "But in
heathen religions the fatherhood of the gods is a physical fatherhood. Among the Greeks, for
example, the idea that the gods fashioned men out of clay, as potters fashion images, is relatively
modern. The older conception is that the races of men have gods for their ancestors, or are
the children of the earth, the common mother of gods and men, so that men are really of the
same stock or kin of the gods. That the same conception was familiar to the older Semites appears
from the Bible. In the ancient poem, Num. xxi. 29, the Moabites are called the sons and daughters
of Chemosh, and, at a much more recent date, the prophet Malachi calls a heathen woman, 'the
daughter of a strange god'" (535. 41-43).

Professor Smith cites also the evidence furnished by genealogies and personal names: "The father
of Solomon's ally, Hiram, King of Tyre, was called Abibaal, 'my father is Baal'; Ben-Hadad,
of Damascus, is 'the son of the god Hadad'; in Aramaan we find names like Barlaha, 'son of
God,' Barba'shmin, 'son of the Lord of Heaven,' Barate, 'son of Ate,' etc." We have also that
passage in Genesis which tells how the "sons of God saw the daughters of men that were fair;
and they took them wives of all which they chose" (vi. 2), while an echo of the same thought
dwells with the Polynesians, who term illegitimate children tamarika na te Atua, "children
of the gods" (458. 121). D'Alviella further remarks: "Presently these family relations of the
gods were extended till they embraced the whole creation, and especially mankind. The confusion
between the terms for creating and begetting, which still maintained itself in half-developed
languages, must have led to a spontaneous fusion of the ideas of creator and father." But there
is another aspect of this question. Of the Amazulu Callaway writes: "Speaking generally, the
head of each house is worshipped by the children of that house; for they do not know the ancients
who are dead, nor their laud-giving names, nor their names. But their father whom they knew
is the head by whom they begin and end in their prayer, for they know him best, and his love
for his children; they remember his kindness to them whilst he was living; they compare his
treatment of them whilst he was living, support themselves by it, and say, 'He will treat us
in the same way now he is dead. We do not know why he should regard others beside us; he will
regard us only.'" Of these people it is true, as they themselves say: "Our father is a great
treasure to us, even when he is dead" (417.144).

Here we pass over to ancestor worship, seen at its height in China, whose great sage, Confucius,
taught: "The great object of marriage is to beget children, and especially sons, who may perform
the required sacrifices at the tombs of their parents" (434. 126).

In this connection, the following passage from Max Muller is of interest: "How religious ideas
could spring from the perception of something infinite or immortal in our parents, grandparents,
and ancestors, we can see even at the present day. Among the Zulus, for instance, Unkulunkulu
or Ukulukulu, which means the great-great-grandfather, has become the name of God. It is true
that each family has its own Unkulunkulu, and that his name varies accordingly. But there is
also an Unkulunkulu of all men (unkulunladu wabantu bonke), and he comes very near to being
a father of all men. Here also we can watch a very natural process of reasoning. A son would
look upon his father as his progenitor; he would remember his father's father, possibly his
father's grandfather. But beyond that his own experience could hardly go, and therefore the
father of his own great-grandfather, of whom he might have heard, but whom he had never seen,
would naturally assume the character of a distant unknown being; and, if the human mind ascended
still further, it would almost by necessity be driven to a father of all fathers, that is to
a creator of mankind, if not of the world" (510. 156). An Eastern legend of the child Abraham
has crystallized the idea. It is said that one morning, while with his mother in the cave in
which they were hiding from Nimrod, he asked his mother, "Who is my God?" and she replied,
"It is I." "And who is thy God?" he inquired farther. "Thy father" (547.69). Hence also we
derive the declaration of Du Vair, "Nous devons tenir nos peres comme des dieux en terre,"
and the statement of another French writer, of whom Westermarck says: "Bodin wrote, in the
later part of the sixteenth century, that, though the monarch commands his subjects, the master
his disciples, the captain his soldiers, there is none to whom nature has given any command
except the father, 'who is the true image of the great sovereign God, universal father of all
things'" (166. 238).

Father-Sky. As many cosmologies tell, Day and Dawn were born of the embraces of Earth and Sky.
Ushas, Eos, Aurora, is the daughter of heaven, and one story of the birth is contained in the
Maori myth of Papa and Rangi. Ushas, Max Muller tells us, "has two parents, heaven and earth,
whose lap she fills with light" (510. 431). From Rangi, "Father-Sky," and Papa, "Mother-Earth,"
say the Maoris of New Zealand, sprang all living things; and, in like manner, the Chinese consider
the Sky or Heaven,--Yang, the masculine, procreative, active element,--to be the "father of
all things," while the Earth,--Yu, the feminine, conceiving, passive element,--is the "mother
of all things." From the union of these two everything in existence has arisen, and consequently
resembles the one or the other (529. 107).

Among the primitive Aryans, the Sky, or Heaven God, was called "Father," as shown by the Sanskrit
Dyaus Pitar, Greek Zeus Patar, Latin Jupiter, all of which names signify "sky father." Dyaus
is also called janitar, "producer, father," and Zeus, the "eternal father of men," the "father
of gods and men, the ruler and preserver of the world." In the Vedic hymns are invocations
of Dyaus (Sky), as "our Father," and of Prithivi (Earth), as "our Mother" (388. 210).

Dyaus symbolizes the "bright sky"; from the same primitive Indo-European root come the Latin
words dies (day), deus or divus (god); the dark sombre vault of heaven is Varuna, the Greek
[Greek: Ouranos], Latin Uranus.

Other instances of the bridal of earth and sky,--of "mother earth," and "father sky,"--are
found among the tribes of the Baltic, the Lapps, the Finns (who have Ukko, "Father Heaven,"
Akka, "Mother Earth"), and other more barbaric peoples.

In Ashanti, the new deity, which the introduction of Christianity has added to the native pantheon,
is called Nana Nyankupon, "Grandfather-sky" (438. 24).

The shaman of the Buryats of Alarsk prays to "Father Heaven"; in the Altai Mountains the prayer
is to

  "Father Yulgen, thrice exalted,
  Whom the edge of the moon's axe shuns,
  Who uses the hoof of the horse.
  Thou, Yulgen, hast created all men,
  Who are stirring round about us,
  Thou, Yulgen, hast endowed us with all cattle;
  Let us not fall into sorrow!
  Grant that we may resist the evil one!" (504. 70, 77).

We too have recollections of that "Father-Sky," whom our far-off ancestors adored, the bright,
glad, cheerful sky, the "ancestor of all." Max Muller has summed up the facts of our inheritance
in brief terms:--

"Remember that this Dyaush Pitar is the same as the Greek [Greek: Zeus Patar], and the Latin
Jupiter, and you will see how this one word shows us the easy, the natural, the almost inevitable
transition from the conception of the active sky as a purely physical fact, to the Father-Sky
with all his mythological accidents, and lastly to that Father in heaven whom Aschylus meant
when he burst out in his majestic prayer to Zeus, whosoever he is" (510. 410).

Unnumbered centuries have passed, but the "witchery of the soft blue sky" has still firm hold
upon the race, and we are, as of old, children of "our Father, who art in Heaven."

Father-Sea.

Montesinos tells us that Viracocha, "sea-foam," the Peruvian god of the sea, was regarded as
the source of all life and the origin of all things,--world-tiller, world-animator, he was
called (509. 316). Xenophanes of Kolophon, a Greek philosopher of the sixth century B.C., taught
that "the mighty sea is the father of clouds and winds and rivers." In Greek mythology Oceanus
is said to be the father of the principal rivers of earth. Neptune, the god of the sea,--"Father
Neptune," he is sometimes called,--had his analogue in a deity whom the Libyans looked upon
as "the first and greatest of the gods." To Neptune, as the "Father of Streams," the Romans
erected a temple in the Campus Martius and held games and feasts in his honour. The sea was
also spoken of as pater aequoreus.

Father-River.

The name "Father of Waters" is assigned, incorrectly perhaps, to certain American Indian languages,
as an appellation of the Mississippi. From Macaulay's "Lay of Horatius," we all know

  "O Tiber, Father Tiber,
  To whom the Romans pray,"

and "Father Thames" is a favourite epithet of the great English river.

Father-Frost.

In our English nursery-lore the frost is personified as a mischievous boy, "Jack Frost," to
whose pranks its vagaries are due. In old Norse mythology we read of the terrible "Frost Giants,"
offspring of Ymir, born of the ice of Niflheim, which the warmth exhaled from the sun-lit land
of Muspelheim caused to drop off into the great Ginnunga-gap, the void that once was where
earth is now. In his "Frost Spirit" Whittier has preserved something of the ancient grimness.

We speak commonly of the "Frost-King," whose fetters bind the earth in winter.

In Russia the frost is called "Father Frost," and is personified as a white old man, or "a
mighty smith who forges strong chains with which to bind the earth and the waters," and on
Christmas Eve "the oldest man in each family takes a spoonful of kissel (a sort of pudding),
and then, having put his head through the window, cries: 'Frost, Frost, come and eat kissel!
Frost, Frost, do not kill our oats! Drive our flax and hemp deep into the ground'" (520.223-230).

Quite different is the idea contained in Grimm's tale of "Old Mother Frost,"--the old woman,
the shaking of whose bed in the making causes the feathers to fly, and "then it snows on earth."

Father Fire.

Fire has received worship and apotheosis in many parts of the globe. The Muskogee Indians of
the southeastern United States "gave to fire the highest Indian title of honour, grandfather,
and their priests were called 'fire-makers'" (529. 68). The ancient Aztecs called the god of
fire "the oldest of the gods, Huehueteotl, and also 'our Father,' Tota, as it was believed
that from him all things were derived." He was supposed "to govern the generative proclivities
and the sexual relations," and he was sometimes called Xiuhtecutli, "'God of the Green Leaf,'
that is, of vegetable fecundity and productiveness." He was worshipped as "the life-giver,
the active generator of animate existence,"--the "primal element and the immediate source of
life" (413). These old Americans were in accord with the philosopher, Heraclitus of Ephesus,
who held that "fire is the element, and all things were produced in exchange for fire"; and
Heraclitus, in the fragments in which he speaks of "God," the "one wise," that which "knows
all things," means "Fire." In the rites of the Nagualists occurs a "baptism by fire," which
was "celebrated on the fourth day after the birth of the child, during which time it was deemed
essential to keep the fire burning in the house, but not to permit any of it to be carried
out, as that would bring bad luck to the child," and, in the work of one of the Spanish priests,
a protest is made: "Nor must the lying-in women and their assistants be permitted to speak
of Fire as the father and mother of all things, and the author of nature; because it is a common
saying with them that Fire is present at the birth and death of every creature." It appears
also that the Indians who followed this strange cult were wont to speak of "what the Fire said
and how the Fire wept" (413. 45-46).

Among various other peoples, fire is regarded as auspicious to children; its sacred character
is widely recognized. In the Zend-Avesta, the Bible of the ancient Persians, whose religion
survives in the cult of the Parsees, now chiefly resident in Bombay and its environs, we read
of Ahura-Mazda, the "Wise Lord," the "Father of the pure world," the "best thing of all, the
source of light for the world." Purest and most sacred of all created things was fire, light
(421. 32). In the Sar Dar, one of the Parsee sacred books, the people are bidden to "keep a
continual fire in the house during a woman's pregnancy, and, after the child is born, to burn
a lamp [or, better, a fire] for three nights and days, so that the demons and fiends may not
be able to do any damage and harm." It is said that when Zoroaster, the founder of the ancient
religion of Persia, was born, "a demon came at the head of a hundred and fifty other demons,
every night for three nights, to slay him, but they were put to flight by seeing the fire,
and were consequently unable to hurt him" (258. 96).

In ancient Rome, among the Lithuanians on the shores of the Baltic, in Ireland, in England,
Denmark, Germany, "while a child remained unbaptized," it was, or is, necessary "to burn a
light in the chamber." And in the island of Lewis, off the northwestern coast of Scotland,
"fire used to be carried round women before they were churched, and children before they were
christened, both night and morning; and this was held effectual to preserve both mother and
infant from evil spirits, and (in the case of the infant) from being changed."

In the Gypsy mountain villages of Upper Hungary, during the baptism of a child, the women kindle
in the hut a little fire, over which the mother with the baptized infant must step, in order
that milk may not fail her while the child is being suckled (392. II. 21).

In the East Indies, the mother with her new-born child is made to pass between two fires.

Somewhat similar customs are known to have existed in northern and western Europe; in Ireland
and Scotland especially, where children were made to pass through or leap over the fire.

To Moloch ("King"), their god of fire, the Phoenicians used to sacrifice the first-born of
their noblest families. A later development of this cult seems to have consisted in making
the child pass between two fires, or over or through a fire. This "baptism of fire" or "purification
by fire," was in practice among the ancient Aztecs of Mexico. To the second water-baptism was
added the fire-baptism, in which the child was drawn through the fire four times (509. 653).

Among the Tarahumari Indians of the Mexican Sierra Madre, the medicine-man "cures" the infant,
"so that it may become strong and healthy, and live a long life." The ceremony is thus described
by Lumholtz: "A big fire of corn-cobs, or of the branches of the mountain-cedar, is made near
the cross [outside the house], and the baby is carried over the smoke three times towards each
cardinal-point, and also three times backward. The motion is first toward the east, then toward
the west, then south, then north. The smoke of the corn-cobs assures him of success in agriculture.
With a fire-brand the medicine-man makes three crosses on the child's forehead, if it is a
boy, and four, if a girl" (107. 298).

Among certain South American tribes the child and the mother are "smoked" with tobacco (326.
II. 194).

With marriage, too, fire is associated. In Yucatan, at the betrothal, the priest held the little
fingers of bridegroom and bride to the fire (509. 504), and in Germany, the maiden, on Christmas
night, looks into the hearth-fire to discover there the features of her future husband (392.
IV. 82). Rademacher (130a) has called attention to the great importance of the hearth and the
fireplace in family life. In the Black Forest the stove is invoked in these terms: "Dear oven,
I beseech thee, if thou hast a wife, I would have a man" (130 a. 60). Among the White Russians,
before the wedding, the house of the bridegroom and that of the bride are "cleansed from evil
spirits," by burning a heap of straw in the middle of the living-room, and at the beginning
of the ceremonies, after they have been elevated upon a cask, as "Prince" and "Princess," the
guests, with the wedding cake and two tapers in their hands, go round the cask three times,
and with the tapers held crosswise burn them a little on the neck, the forehead, and the temples,
so that the hair is singed away somewhat. At church the wax tapers are of importance: if they
burn brightly and clearly, the young couple will have a happy, merry married life; if feeble,
their life will be a quiet one; if they flicker, there will be strife and quarrels between
them (392 (1891). 161).

Writing of Manabozho, or Michabo, the great divinity of the Algonkian tribes of the Great Lakes,
Dr. D. G. Brinton says: "Michabo, giver of life and light, creator and preserver, is no apotheosis
of a prudent chieftain, still less the fabrication of an idle fancy, or a designing priestcraft,
but, in origin, deeds, and name, the not unworthy personification of the purest conceptions
they possessed concerning the Father of All" (409. 469).

To Agni, fire, light, "in whom are all the gods," the ancient Hindu prayed: "Be unto us easy
of access, as a father to his son" (388. 210), and later generations of men have seen in light
the embodiment of God. As Max Muller says, "We ourselves also, though we may no longer use
the name of Morning-Light for the Infinite, the Beyond, the Divine, still find no better expression
than Light when we speak of the manifestations of God, whether in nature or in our mind" (510.
434).

In the Christian churches of to-day hymns of praise are sung to God as "Father of Light and
Life," and their neophytes are bidden, as of old, to "walk as Children of Light."

Father-Sun. A common affirmation with them was: "By the life of the Sun, and of our Lady, the
Earth" (529. 97).

Many primitive tribes have the custom of holding the newborn child up to the sun.

Not a few races and peoples have called themselves "children of the sun." The first of the
Incas of Peru--a male and a female--were children of the Sun "our Father," who, "seeing the
pitiable condition of mankind, was moved to compassion, and sent to them, from Heaven, two
of his children, a son and a daughter, to teach them how to do him honour, and pay him divine
worship "; they were also instructed by the sun in all the needful arts of life, which they
taught to men (529. 102). When the "children of the Sun" died, they were said to be "called
to the home of the Sun, their Father" (100. 479).

The Comanche Indians, who worship the sun with dances and other rites, call him taab-apa, "Father
Sun," and the Sarcees speak of the sun as "Our Father," and of the earth as "Our Mother" (412.
122, 72).

With the Piute Indians "the sun is the father and ruler of the heavens. He is the big chief.
The moon is his wife, and the stars are their children. The sun eats his children whenever
he can catch them. They fall before him, and are all the time afraid when he is passing through
the heavens. When he (their father) appears in the morning, you see all the stars, his children,
fly out of sight,--go away back into the blue of the above,--and they do not wake to be seen
again until he, their father, is about going to his bed" (485. I. 130).

Dr. Eastman says of the Sioux Indians: "The sun was regarded as the father, and the earth as
the mother, of all things that live and grow; but, as they had been married a long time and
had become the parents of many generations, they were called the great-grandparents" (518 (1894).
89).

Widespread over the earth has been, and still is, the worship of the sun; some mythologists,
indeed, would go too far and explain almost every feature of savage and barbarous religion
as a sun-myth or as smacking of heliolatry.

Imagery and figurative language borrowed from the consideration of the aspect and functions
of the great orb of day have found their way into and beautified the religious thought of every
modern Christian community. The words of the poet Thomson:

 "Prime cheerer light!
  Of all material beings first and best!
  Efflux divine! Nature's resplendent robe!
  Without whose vesting beauty all were wrapt
  In unessential gloom; and thou, O Sun!
  Soul of surrounding worlds! in whom best seen
  Shines out thy Maker!"

find briefer expression in the simple speech of the dying Turner: "The sun is God."

Father-Earth.

Though, in nearly every portion of the globe the apotheosis of earth is as a woman, we find
in America some evidences of a cult of the terrestrial Father-God. Concerning the cave-worship
of the Mexican aborigines, Dr. Brinton says (413. 38, 50): "The intimate meaning of this cave-cult
was the worship of the Earth. The Cave-God, the Heart of the Hills, really typified the Earth,
the Soil, from whose dark recesses flow the limpid streams and spring the tender shoots of
the food-plants as well as the great trees. To the native Mexican the Earth was the provider
of food and drink, the common Father of All; so that, to this day, when he would take a solemn
oath, he stoops to the earth, touches it with his hand, and repeats the solemn formula: 'Cuix
amo nechitla in toteotzin? Does not our Great God see me?'"

Father-Wind.

Dr. Berendt, when travelling through the forests of Yucatan, heard his Maya Indian guide exclaim
in awe-struck tones, as the roar of a tornado made itself heard in the distance: He catal nohoch
yikal nohoch tat, "Here comes the mighty wind of the Great Father." As Dr. Brinton points out,
this belief has analogues all over the world, in the notion of the wind-bird, the master of
breath, and the spirit, who is father of all the race, for we learn also that "the whistling
of the wind is called, or attributed to, tat acmo, words which mean 'Father Strong-Bird'" (411.
175).

The cartography of the Middle Ages and the epochs of the great maritime discoveries has made
us familiar with the wind-children, offspring of the wind-father, from whose mouths came the
breezes and the storms, and old Boreas, of whom the sailors sing, has traces of the fatherhood
about him. More than one people has believed that God, the Father, is Spirit, breath, wind.

Other Father-Gods.

The ancient Romans applied the term Pater to many of their gods beside the great Jove. Vulcan
was called Lemnus Pater, the "Lemnian Father"; Bacchus, Pater Lenaus; Janus, the "early god
of business," is termed by Horace, Matutinus Pater, "Early-morning Father"; Mars is Mars Pater,
etc. The Guarayo Indians, of South America, prayed for rain and bountiful harvests to "Tamoi,
the grandfather, the old god in heaven, who was their first ancestor and had taught them agriculture"
(100. 288).

The Abipones, of Paraguay, called the Pleiades their "Grandfather" and "Creator." When the
constellation was invisible, they said: "Our Grandfather, Keebet, is ill" (509. 274, 284).

In his account of the folk-lore of Yucatan, Dr. Brinton tells us that the giant-beings known
as Hbalamob, or balams, are sometimes "affectionately referred to as yum balam, or 'Father
Balam.'" The term yum is practically the equivalent of the Latin pater, and of the "father,"
employed by many primitive peoples in addressing, or speaking of, their great male divinities
(411. 176).

In his acute exposition of the philosophy of the Zuni Indians, Mr. Gushing tells us (424. 11)
that "all beings, whether deistic and supernatural, or animistic and mortal, are regarded as
belonging to one system; and that they are likewise believed to be related by blood seems to
be indicated by the fact that human beings are spoken of as the 'children of men,' while all
other beings are referred to as 'the Fathers,' the 'All-Fathers (A-ta-tchu),' and 'Our Fathers.'"
The "Priest'of the Bow," when travelling alone through a dangerous country, offers up a prayer,
which begins: "Si! This day, My Fathers, ye Animal Beings, although this country be filled
with enemies, render me precious" (424. 41). The hunter, in the ceremonial of the "Deer Medicine,"
prays: "Si! This day, My Father, thou Game Animal, even though thy trail one day and one night
hast (been made) round about; however, grant unto me one step of my earth-mother. Wanting thy
life-blood, wanting that flesh, hence I address to thee good fortune, address to thee treasure,"
etc. When he has stricken down the animal, "before the 'breath of life' has left the fallen
deer (if it be such), he places its fore feet back of its horns, and, grasping its mouth, holds
it firmly, closely, while he applies his lips to its nostrils and breathes as much wind into
them as possible, again inhaling from the lungs of the dying animal into his own. Then, letting
go, he exclaims: 'Ah! Thanks, my father, my child. Grant unto me the seeds of earth ('daily
bread') and the gift of water. Grant unto me the light of thy favour, do" (424. 36).

Something of a like nature, perhaps, attaches to the bear-ceremonials among the Ainu and other
primitive peoples of northeastern Asia, with whom that animal is held in great respect and
reverence, approaching to deification.

Of Po-shai-an-k'ia, "the God (Father) of the Medicine Societies, or sacred esoteric orders
of the Zunis," Mr. Gushing tells us: "He is supposed to have appeared in human form, poorly
clad, and therefore reviled by men; to have taught the ancestors of the Zuni, Taos, Oraibi,
and Coconino Indians their agricultural and other arts; their systems of worship by means of
plumed and painted prayer-sticks; to have organized their medicine societies, and then to have
disappeared toward his home in Shi-pa-pu-li-ma (from shi-pa-a = mist, vapour; u-lin, surrounding;
and i-mo-na = sitting-place of; 'The mist-enveloped city'), and to have vanished beneath the
world, whence he is said to have departed for the home of the Sun. He is still the conscious
auditor of the prayers of his children, the invisible ruler of the spiritual Shi-pa-pu-li-ma,
and of the lesser gods of the medicine orders, the principal 'Finisher of the Paths of our
Lives.' He is, so far as any identity can be established, the 'Montezuma' of popular and usually
erroneous Mexican tradition" (424. 16). Both on the lowest steps of civilization and on the
highest, we meet with this passing over of the Father into the Son, this participation of God
in the affairs and struggles of men.

CHAPTER V.

THE NAME CHILD.

  Liebe Kinder haben viele Namen
  [Dear children have many names].--German Proverb.

  Child or boy, my darling, which you will.--Swinburne.

  Men ever had, and ever will have, leave
  To coin new words well-suited to the age.
  Words are like leaves, some wither every year,
  And every year a younger race succeeds.--Roscommon.

Child and its Synonyms.

Our word child--the good old English term; for both babe and infant are borrowed--simply means
the "product of the womb" (compare Gothic kilthei, "womb"). The Lowland-Scotch dialect still
preserves an old word for "child" in bairn, cognate with Anglo-Saxon bearn, Icelandic, Swedish,
Danish, and Gothic barn (the Gothic had a diminutive barnilo, "baby"), Sanskrit bharna, which
signifies "the borne one," "that which is born," from the primitive Indo-European root bhr,
"to bear, to carry in the womb," whence our "to bear" and the German "ge-baren." Son, which
finds its cognates in all the principal Aryan dialects, except Latin, and perhaps Celtic,--the
Greek [Greek: yios] is for [Greek: syios], and is the same word,--a widespread term for "male
child, or descendant," originally meant, as the Old Irish suth, "birth, fruit," and the Sanskrit
su, "to bear, to give birth to," indicate, "the fruit of the womb, the begotten"--an expression
which meets us time and again in the pages of the Hebrew Bible. The words offspring, issue,
seed, used in higher diction, explain themselves and find analogues all over the world. To
a like category belong Sanskrit garbha, "brood of birds, child, shoot"; Pali gabbha, "womb,
embryo, child"; Old High German chilburra, "female lamb"; Gothic kalbo, "female lamb one year
old"; German Kalb; English calf; Greek [Greek: delphus], "womb"; whence [Greek: adelphus],
"brother," literally "born of the same womb." Here we see, in the words for their young, the
idea of the kinship of men and animals in which the primitive races believed. The "brought
forth" or "born" is also the signification of the Niskwalli Indian ba'-ba-ad, "infant"; de-bad-da,
"infant, son"; Maya al, "son or daughter of a woman"; Cakchiquel 4ahol, "son," and like terms
in many other tongues. Both the words in our language employed to denote the child before birth
are borrowed. Embryo, with its cognates in the modern tongues of Europe, comes from the Greek
[Greek: embruon], "the fruit of the womb before delivery; birth; the embryo, foetus; a lamb
newly born, a kid." The word is derived from eu, "within"; and bruo, "I am full of anything,
I swell or teem with"; in a transitive sense, "I break forth." The radical idea is clearly
"swelling," and cognates are found in Greek [Greek: bruon], "moss"; and German Kraut, "plant,
vegetable." Foetus comes to us from Latin, where it meant "a bearing, offspring, fruit; bearing,
dropping, hatching,--of animals, plants, etc.; fruit, produce, offspring, progeny, brood."
The immediate derivation of the word is feto, "I breed," whence also effetus, "having brought
forth young, worn out by bearing, effete." Feto itself is from an old verb feuere, "to generate,
to produce," possibly related to fui and our be. The radical signification of foetus then is
"that which is bred, or brought to be"; and from the same root fe are derived feles, "cat"
(the fruitful animal); fe-num, "hay"; fe-cundus, "fertile"; fe-lix, "happy" (fruitful). The
corresponding verb in Greek is [Greek: phuein], "to grow, to spring forth, to come into being,"
whence the following: [Greek: phusis], "a creature, birth, nature,"--nature is "all that has
had birth"; [Greek: phuton] "something grown, plant, tree, creature, child"; [Greek: phulae,
philon] "race, clan, tribe,"--the "aggregate of those born in a certain way or place"; [Greek:
phus], "son"; [Greek: phusas], "father," etc.

In English, we formerly had the phrase "to look babies in the eyes," and we still speak of
the pupil of the eye, the old folk-belief having been able to assert itself in the every-day
speech of the race,--the thought that the soul looked out of the windows of the eyes. In Latin,
pupilla pupila, "girl, pupil of the eye," is a diminutive of pupa (puppa), "girl, damsel, doll,
puppet"; other related words are pupulus, "little boy"; pupillus, "orphan, ward," our pupil;
pupulus, "little child, boy"; pupus, "child, boy." The radical of all these is pu, "to beget";
whence are derived also the following: puer, "child, boy"; puella (for puerula), a diminutive
of puer, "girl"; pusus, "boy"; pusio, "little boy," pusillus; "a very little boy"; putus, "boy";
putillus, "little boy"; putilla, "little girl,"--here belongs also pusillanimus, "small-minded,
boy-minded"; pubis, "ripe, adult"; pubertas, "puberty, maturity"; pullus, "a young animal,
a fowl," whence our pullet. In Greek we find the cognate words [Greek: polos] "a young animal,"
related to our foal, filly; [Greek: polion], "pony," and, as some, perhaps too venturesome,
have suggested, [Greek: pais], "child," with its numerous derivatives in the scientifical nomenclature
and phraseology of to-day. In Sanskrit we have putra, "son," a word familiar as a suffix in
river-names,--Brahmaputra, "son of Brahma,"--pota, "the young of an animal," etc. Skeat thinks
that our word boy, borrowed from Low German and probably related to the Modern High German
Bube, whence the familiar "bub" of American colloquial speech, is cognate with Latin pupus.

To this stock of words our babe, with its diminutive baby, seems not akin. Skeat, rejecting
the theory that it is a reduplicative child-word, like papa, sees in it merely a modification
(infantine, perhaps) of the Celtic maban, diminutive of mab, "son," and hence related to maid,
the particular etymology of which is discussed elsewhere.

Infant, also, is a loan-word in English. In Latin, infans was the coinage of some primitive
student of children, of some prehistoric anthropologist, who had a clear conception of "infancy"
as "the period of inability to speak,"--for infans signifies neither more nor less than "not
speaking, unable to speak." The word, like our "childish," assumed also the meanings "child,
young, fresh, new, silly," with a diminutive infantulus. The Latin word infans has its representatives
in French and other Romance languages, and has given rise to enfanter, "to give birth to a
child," enfantement, "labour," two of the few words relating to child-birth in which the child
is directly remembered. The history of the words infantry, "foot-soldiers," and Infanta, "a
princess of the blood royal" in Spain (even though she be married), illustrates a curious development
of thought.

Our word daughter, which finds cognates in Teutonic, Slavonic, Armenian, Zend, Sanskrit, and
Greek, Skeat would derive from the root dugh, "to milk," the "daughter" being primitively the
"milker," --the "milkmaid,"--which would remove the term from the list of names for "child"
in the proper sense of the word. Kluge, however, with justice perhaps, considers this etymology
improbable.

A familiar phrase in English is "babes and sucklings," the last term of which, cognate with
German Saugling, meets with analogues far and wide among the peoples of the earth. The Latin
words for children in relation to their parents are filius (diminutive filiolus), "son," and
filia (diminutive filiola), "daughter," which have a long list of descendants in the modern
Neo-Latin or Romance languages,--French fils, fille, filleul, etc.; Italian figlio, figlia,
etc. According to Skeat, filius signified originally "infant," perhaps "suckling," from felare,
"to suck," the radical of which, fe (Indo-European dhe), appears also in femina, "woman," and
femella, "female," the "sucklers" par excellence. In Greek the cognate words are [Greek: titthae],
"nurse," thaelus, "female," thaelae, "teat," etc.; in Lithuanian, dels, "son." With nonagan,
"teat, breast," are cognate in the Delaware Indian language nonoshellaan, "to suckle," nonetschik,
"suckling," and other primitive tongues have similar series.

The Modern High German word for child is Kind, which, as a substantive, finds representatives
neither in Gothic nor in early English, but has cognates in the Old Norse kunde, "son," Gothic
-kunds, Anglo-Saxon -kund, a suffix signifying "coming from, originating from." The ultimate
radical of the word is the Indo-European root gen (Teutonic ken), "to bear, to produce," whence
have proceeded also kin, Gothic kuni; queen, Gothic qvens, "woman"; king, Modern High German
Konig, originally signifying perhaps "one of high origin"; Greek genos and its derivatives;
Latin genus, gens, gigno; Lithuanian gentis, "relative"; Sanskrit janas, "kin, stock," janus,
"creature, kin, birth," jantu, "child, being, stock," jata, "son." Kind, therefore, while not
the same word as our child, has the same primitive meaning, "the produced one," and finds further
cognates in kid and colt, names applied to the young of certain animals, and the first of which,
in the slang of to-day, is applied to children also. In some parts of Germany and Switzerland
Kind has the sense of boy; in Thuringia, for example, people speak of zwei Kinder und ein Madchen,
"two boys and a girl." From the same radical sprang the Modern High German Knabe, Old High
German chnabo, "boy, youth, young fellow, servant," and its cognates, including our English
knave, with its changed meaning, and possibly also German Knecht and English knight, of somewhat
similar import originally.

To the same original source we trace back Greek [Greek: genetaer], Latin genitor, "parent,"
and their cognates, in all of which the idea of genesis is prominent. Here belong, in Greek:
[Greek: genesis], "origin, birth, beginning"; [Greek: gynae], "woman"; [Greek: genea], "family,
race"; [Greek: geinomai], "I beget, produce, bring forth, am born"; [Greek: gignomai], "I come
into a new state of being, become, am born." In Latin: gigno, "I beget, bring forth"; gens,
"clan, race, nation,"--those born in a certain way; ingens, "vast, huge, great,"--"not gens,"
i.e. "born beyond or out of its kind"; gentilis, "belonging to the same clan, race, tribe,
nation," then, with various turns of meaning, "national, foreign," whence our gentile, genteel,
gentle, gentry, etc.; genus, "birth, race, sort, kind"; ingenium, "innate quality, natural
disposition"; ingeniosus, "of good natural abilities, born well-endowed," hence ingenious;
ingenuus, "native, free-born, worthy of a free man," hence "frank, ingenuous"; progenies, "descent,
descendants, offspring, progeny"; gener, "son-in-law"; genius, "innate superior nature, tutelary
deity, the god born to a place," hence the genius, who is "born," not "made"; genuinus, "innate,
born-in, genuine"; indigena, "native, born-there, indigenous"; generosus, "of high, noble birth,"
hence "noble-minded, generous"; genero, "I beget, produce, engender, create, procreate," and
its derivatives degenero, regenero, etc., with the many words springing from them. From the
same radical gen comes the Latin (g)nascor, "I am born," whose stem (g)na is seen also in natio,
"the collection of those born," or "the birth," and natura, "the world of birth,"--like Greek
[Greek: phnsis],--for "nations" and "nature" have both "sprung into being." The Latin germen
(our germ), which signified "sprig, offshoot, young bud, sprout, fruit, embryo," probably meant
originally simply "growth," from the root ker, "to make to grow." From the same Indo-European
radical have come the Latin creare, "to create, make, produce," with its derivatives procreare
and creator, which we now apply to the Supreme Being, as the "maker" or "producer" of all things.
Akin are also crescere, "to come forth, to arise, to appear, to increase, to grow, to spring,
to be born," and Ceres, the name of the goddess of agriculture (growth and creation), whence
our word cereal; and in Greek [Greek: Kronos], the son of Uranus (Heaven) and Gaa (Earth),
[Greek: kratos], "strength," and its derivatives ("democracy," etc.).

Another interesting Latin word is pario, "I bring forth, produce," whence parens, "producer,
parent," partus, "birth, bearing, bringing forth; young, offspring, foetus, embryo of any creature,"
parturio, parturitio, etc. Pario is used alike of human beings, animals, birds, fish, while
parturio is applied to women and animals, and, by Virgil, even to trees,--parturit arbos, "the
tree is budding forth,"--and by other writers to objects even less animate.

In the Latin enitor, "I bring forth or bear children or young,"--properly, "I struggle, strive,
make efforts,"--we meet with the idea of "labour," now so commonly associated with child-bearing,
and deriving from the old comparison of the tillage of the soil and the bearing of the young.
This association existed in Hebrew also, and Cain, the first-born of Adam, was the first agriculturist.
We still say the tree bears fruit, the land bears crops, is fertile, and the most characteristic
word in English belonging to the category in question is "to bear" children, cognate with Modern
High German ge-baren, Gothic gabairan, Latin ferre (whence fertilis), Greek [Greek: ferein],
Sanskrit bhri, etc., all from the Indo-European root bher, "to carry"--compare the use of tragen
in Modern High German: sie tragt ein Kind unter dem Herzen. The passive verb is "to be born"
literally, "to be borne, to be carried, produced," and the noun corresponding, birth, cognate
with German Geburt, and Old Norse burthr, which meant "embryo" as well. Related ideas are seen
in burden, and in the Latin, fors, fortuna, for "fortune" is but that which is "borne" or "produced,
brought forth," just as the Modern High German Heil, "fortune, luck," is probably connected
with the Indo-European radical gen, "to produce."

Corresponding to the Latin parentes, in meaning, we have the Gothic berusjos, "the bearers,"
or "parents"; we still use in English, "forbears," in the sense of ancestors. The good old
English phrase "with child," which finds its analogues in many other languages, has, through
false modesty, been almost driven out of literature, as it has been out of conversational language,
by pregnant, which comes to us from the Latins, who also used gravidus,--a word we now apply
only to animals, especially dogs and ants,--and enceinte, borrowed from French, and referring
to the ancient custom of girding a woman who was with child. Similarly barren of direct reference
to the child are accouchement, which we have borrowed from French, and the German Entbindung.

In German, Grimm enumerates, among other phrases relating to child-birth, the following, the
particular meanings and uses of which are explained in his great dictionary: Schwanger, gross
zum Kinde, zum Kinde gehen, zum Kinde arbeiten, um's Kind kommen, mit Kinde, ein Kind tragen,
Kindesgrosz, Kindes schwer, Kinder haben, Kinder bekommen, Kinder kriegen, niederkommen, entbinden,
and the quaint and beautiful eines Kindes genesen,--all used of the mother. Applied to both
parents we find Kinder machen, Kinder bekommen (now used more of the mother), Kinder erzeugen
(more recently, of the father only), Kinder erzielen.

Our English word girl is really a diminutive (from a stem gir, seen in Old Low German gor,
"a child") from some Low German dialect, and, though it now signifies only "a female child,
a young woman," in Middle English gerl (girl, gurl) was applied to a young person of either
sex. In the Swiss dialects to-day gurre, or gurrli, is a name given to a "girl" in a depreciatory
sense, like our own "girl-boy." In many primitive tongues there do not appear to be special
words for "son" and "daughter," or for "boy" and "girl," as distinguished from each other,
these terms being rendered "male-child (man-child)," and "female-child (woman-child)" respectively.
The "man-child" of the King James' version of the Scriptures belongs in this category. In not
a few languages, the words for "son" and "daughter" and for "boy" and "girl" mean really "little
man," and "little woman"--a survival of which thought meets us in the "little man" with which
his elders are even now wont to denominate "the small boy." In the Nahuatl language of Mexico,
"woman" is ciuatl, "girl" ciuatontli; in the Niskwalli, of the State of Washington, "man" is
stobsh, "boy" stotomish, "woman" slane, "girl" chachas (i.e. "small") slane; in the Tacana,
of South. America, "man" is dreja, "boy" drejave, "woman" epuna, "girl" epunave. And but too
often the "boys" and "girls" even as mere children are "little men and women" in more respects
than that of name.

In some languages the words for "son," "boy," "girl" are from the same root. Thus, in the Mazatec
language, of Mexico, we find indidi "boy," tzadi "girl," indi "son," and in the Cholona, of
Peru, nun-pullup "boy," ila-pullup "girl," pul "son,"--where ila means "female," and nun "male."

In some others, as was the case with the Latin puella, from puer, the word for "girl" seems
derived from that for "boy." Thus, we have in Maya, mehen "son," ix-mehen "daughter,"-- -ix
is a feminine prefix; and in the Jivaro, of Ecuador, vila "son," vilalu, "daughter."

Among very many primitive peoples, the words for "babe, infant, child," signify really "small,"
"little one," like the Latin parvus, the Scotch wean (for wee ane, "wee one"), etc. In Hawaiian,
for example, the "child" is called keiki, "the little one," and in certain Indian languages
of the Western Pacific slope, the Wiyot kusha'ma "child," Yuke unsil "infant," Wintun cru-tut
"infant," Niskwalli cha chesh "child (boy)," all signify literally "small," "little one."

Some languages, again, have diminutives of the word for "child," often formed by reduplication,
like the wee wean of Lowland Scotch, and the pilpil, "infant" of the Nahuatl of Mexico.

In the Snanaimuq language, of Vancouver Island, the words k.a'ela, "male infant," and k.a'k.ela,
"female infant," mean simply "the weak one." In the Modoc, of Oregon, a "baby" is literally,
"what is carried on one's self." In the Tsimshian, of British Columbia, the word wok.a'uts,
"female infant," signifies really "without labrets," indicating that the creature is yet too
young for the lip ornaments. In Latin, liberi, one of the words for "children," shows on its
face that it meant only "children, as opposed to the slaves of the house, servi"; for liberi
really denotes "the free ones." In "the Galibi language of Brazil, tigami signifies 'young
brother, son, and little child,' indiscriminately." The following passage from Westermarck
recalls the "my son," etc., of our higher conversational or even officious style (166.93):--

"Mr. George Bridgman states that, among the Mackay blacks of Queensland, the word for 'daughter'
is used by a man for any young woman belonging to the class to which his daughter would belong
if he had one.

Similar phenomena meet us in the language of the criminal classes, and the slang of the wilder
youth of the country.

Among the Andaman Islanders: "Parents, when addressing or referring to their children, and
not using names, employ distinct terms, the father calling his son dar o-dire, i.e. 'he that
has been begotten by me,' and his daughter, dar o-dire-pail-; while the mother makes use of
the word dab e-tire, i.e. 'he whom I have borne,' for the former, and dab e-tire pail- for
the latter; similarly, friends, in speaking of children to their parents, say respectively,
ngar o-dire, or ngab e-tire (your son), ngar o-dire-pail-, or ngab e-tire-pail- (your daughter)"
(498. 59).

In the Tonkawe Indian language of Texas, "to be born" is nikaman yekewa, literally, "to become
bones," and in the Klamath, of Oregon, "to give birth," is nkacgi, from nkak, "the top of the
head," and gi, "to make," or perhaps from kak'gi, "to produce bones," from the idea that the
seat of life is in the bones. In the Nipissing dialect of the Algonkian tongue, ni kanis, "my
brother," signifies literally, "my little bone," an etymology which, in the light of the expressions
cited above, reminds one of the Greek [Greek: adelphos], and the familiar "bone of my bone,"
etc. A very interesting word for "child" is Sanskrit toka, Greek [Greek: teknon], from the
Indo-European radical tek, "to prepare, make, produce, generate." To the same root belong Latin
texere, "to weave," Greek [Greek: technae] "art"; so that the child and art have their names
from the same primitive source--the mother was the former of the child as she was of the chief
arts of life.

"Flower-Names."

The people who seem to have gone farthest in the way of words for "child" are the Andaman Islanders,
who have an elaborate system of nomenclature from the first year to the twelfth or fifteenth,
when childhood may be said to end. There are also in use a profusion of "flower-names" and
complimentary terms. The "flower-names" are confined to girls and young women who are not mothers.
The following list shows the peculiarity of the name-giving:--

1. Proper name chosen before birth of child: .do'ra.

2. If child turns out to be a boy, he is called: .do'ra-o'ta; if a girl, .do'ra-ka'ta; these
names (o'ta and ka'ta refer to the genital organs of the two sexes) are used during the first
two or three years only.

3. Until he reaches puberty, the boy is called: .do'ra da'la, and the girl, .do'ra-po'il'ola.

4. When she reaches maturity, the girl is said to be un-la-wi, or a'ka-la-wi, and receives
a "flower-name" chosen from the one of "the eighteen prescribed trees which blossom in succession"
happening to be in season when she attains womanhood.

5. If this should occur in the middle of August, when the Pterocarpus dalbergoides, called
cha'langa, is in flower, ".do'ra-po-ilola would become .cha'garu do'ra, and this double name
would cling to the girl until she married and was a mother, then the 'flower' name would give
way to the more dignified term chan'a (madam or mother).do'ra; if childless, a woman has to
pass a few years of married life before she is called chan'a, after which no further change
is made in her name."

Much other interesting information about name-giving may be found in the pages of Mr. Man's
excellent treatise on this primitive people (498. 59-61; 201-208).

Sign Language.

Interesting details about signs and symbols for "child" may be found in the elaborate article
of Colonel Mallery on "Sign Language among North American Indians" (497a), and the book of
Mr. W. P. Clark on Indian Sign Language (420).

Colonel Mallery tells us that "the Egyptian hieroglyphists, notably in the designation of Horus,
their dawn-god, used the finger in or on the lips for 'child.' It has been conjectured in the
last instance that the gesture implied, not the mode of taking nourishment, but inability to
speak, in-fans." This conjecture, however, the author rejects (497a. 304). Among the Arapaho
Indians "the sign for child, baby, is the forefinger in the mouth, i.e. a nursing child, and
a natural sign of a deaf-mute is the same;" related seem also the ancient Chinese forms for
"son" and "birth," as well as the symbol for the latter among the Dakota Indians (494 a. 356).
Clark describes the symbol for "child," which is based upon those for "parturition" and "height,"
thus: "Bring the right hand, back outwards, in front of centre of body, and close to it, fingers
extended, touching, pointing outwards and downwards; move the hands on a curve downwards and
outwards; then carry the right hand, back outwards, well out to front and right of body, fingers
extended and pointing upwards, hand resting at supposed height of child; the hand is swept
into last position at the completion of first gesture. In speaking of children generally, and,
in fact, unless it is desired to indicate height or age of the child, the first sign is all
that is used or is necessary. This sign also means the young of any animal. In speaking of
children generally, sometimes the signs for different heights are only made. Deaf-mutes make
the combined sign for male and female, and then denote the height with right hand held horizontally"
(420. 109).

For "baby," deaf-mutes "hold extended left hand back down, in front of body, forearm about
horizontal and pointing to right and front; then lay the back of partially compressed right
hand on left forearm near wrist" (420. 57).

Names.

The interesting and extensive field of personal onomatology--the study of personal names--cannot
be entered upon exhaustively here. Shakespeare has said:--

  "What's in a name? That which we call a rose
  By any other name would smell as sweet,"--

and the same remark might be made of the children of some primitive peoples. Not infrequently
the child is named before it is born. Of the Central Eskimo we read that often before the birth
of the child, "some relative or friend lays his hand upon the mother's stomach, and decides
what the infant is to be called; and, as the name serves for either sex, it is of no consequence
whether it be a girl or a boy" (402. 612, 590). Polle has a good deal to say of the deep significance
of the name with certain peoples--"to be" and "to be named" appearing sometimes as synonymous
(517. 99). "Hallowed be Thy name" expresses the ideas of many generations of men. With the
giving of a name the soul and being of a former bearer of it were supposed to enter into and
possess the child or youth upon whom it was conferred. Kink says of the Eskimo of East Greenland,
that "they seemed to consider man as consisting of three independent parts,--soul, body, name"
(517. 122). One can easily understand the mysterious associations of the name, the taboos of
its utterance or pronunciation so common among primitive peoples--the reluctance to speak the
name of a dead person, as well as the desire to confer the name of such a one upon a new-born
child, spring both from the same source.

The folk-lore and ceremonial of name-giving are discussed at length in Ploss, and the special
treatises on popular customs. In several parts of Germany, it is held to be ominous for misfortune
or harm to the child, if the name chosen for it should be made known before baptism. Sometimes,
the child is hardly recognized as existing until he has been given a name. In Gerbstadt in
Mansfeld, Germany, the child before it receives its name is known as "dovedung," and, curiously
enough, in far-off Samoa, the corresponding appellation is "excrement of the family-god" (517.103).

The following statement, regarding one of the American Indian tribes, will stand for many other
primitive peoples: "The proper names of the Dakotas are words, simple and compounded, which
are in common use in the language. They are usually given to children by the father, grandfather,
or some other influential relative. When young men have distinguished themselves in battle,
they frequently take to themselves new names, as the names of distinguished ancestors of warriors
now dead. The son of a chief when he comes to the chieftainship, generally takes the name of
his father or grandfather, so that the same names, as in other more powerful dynasties, are
handed down along the royal lines" (524. 44-45).

Of the same people we are also told: "The Dakotas have no family or surnames. But the children
of a family have particular names which belong to them, in the order of their birth up to the
fifth child. These names are for boys, Caske, Hepan, Hepi, Catan, and Hake. For girls they
are, Windna, Hapan, Hapistinna, Wanske, and Wihake."

Terms applied to Children.

An interesting study might be made of the words we apply to children in respect of size, little,
small, wee, tiny, etc., very many of which, in their etymology, have no reference to childhood,
or indeed to smallness. The derivation of little is uncertain, but the word is reasonably thought
to have meant "little" in the sense of "deceitful, mean," from the radical lut, "to stoop"
(hence "to creep, to sneak"). Curiously enough, the German klein has lost its original meaning,--partly
seen in our clean,--"bright, clear." Small also belongs in the same category, as the German
schmal, "narrow, slim," indicates, though perhaps the original signification may have been
"small" as we now understand it; a cognate word is the Latin macer, "thin, lean," which has
lost an s at the beginning. Even wee, as the phrase "a little wee bit" hints, is thought (by
Skeat) to be nothing more than a Scandinavian form of the same word which appears in our English
way. Skeat also tells us that "a little teeny boy," meant at first "a little fractious (peevish)
boy," being derived from an old word teen, "anger, peevishness." Analogous to tiny is pettish,
which is derived from pet, "mama's pet," "a spoiled child." Endless would the list of words
of this class be, if we had at our disposal the projected English dialect dictionary; many
other illustrations might be drawn from the numerous German dialect dictionaries and the great
Swiss lexicon of Tobler.

Still more interesting, perhaps, would be the discussion of the special words used to denote
the actions and movements of children of all ages, and the names and appellatives of the child
derived from considerations of age, constitution, habits, actions, speech, etc., which are
especially numerous in Low German dialects and such forms of English speech as the Lowland
Scotch. Worthy of careful attention are the synonyms of child, the comparisons in which the
child figures in the speech of civilized and uncivilized man; the slang terms also, which,
like the common expression of to-day, kid, often go back to a very primitive state of mind,
when "children" and "kids" were really looked upon as being more akin than now. Beside the
terms of contempt and sarcasm,--goose, loon, pig, calf, donkey, etc.,--those figures of speech
which, the world over, express the sentiment of the writer of the Wisdom of Solomon regarding
the foolishness of babes,--we, like the ancient Mexicans and many another lower race, have
terms of praise and endearment,--"a jewel of a babe," and the like,--legions of caressives
and diminutives in the use of which some of the Low German dialects are more lavish even than
Lowland Scotch.

In Grimm's great Deutsches Worterbuch, the synonymy of the word Kind and its semasiology are
treated at great length, with a multitude of examples and explanations, useful to students
of English, whose dictionaries lag behind in these respects. The child in language is a fertile
subject for the linguist and the psychologist, and the field is as yet almost entirely unexplored.

CHAPTER VI.

THE CHILD IN THE PRIMITIVE LABORATORY.

As if no mother had made you look nice.--Proverbial Saying of Songish Indians.

Spare the rod and spoil the child.--Hebrew Proverb.

Thou art weighed in the balance and found wanting.--Daniel v. 27.

He has lost his measure.--German Saying.

"Licking into Shape."

Pope, in the Dunciad, has the well-known lines:--

  "So watchful Bruin forms, with plastic care,
   Each growing lump, and brings it to a bear,"

a conceit found in Burton, Montaigne, Byron, and other writers, and based upon an old folk-belief
that the cubs are born a formless lump which the mother-bear has to "lick into shape." The
same idea gave rise to the "ours mal leche" of French, and our own colloquial expression "an
ill-licked cub." In an Alemanian lullaby sung while washing and combing the child, occurs the
following curious passage:--

  "I bin e chleine Pumpernickel,
   I bin e chleine Bar,
   Und wie mi Gott erschaffe hat,
   So wagglen ich derher,"
 ["I am a little Pumpernickel,
   I am a little bear,
   And just as God has fashioned me
   I wiggle about,"]

which, perhaps, contains the same thought. In a recent article, Professor E. W. Fay offers
an etymology of the word "livid" which facilitates the passage from animal to man: "Lividus
meant 'licked.' The word derives from an animal's licking hurts and sores on the young. A mother
of the human species still kisses (licks) a child's hurt to make it well" (Mod. Lang. Notes,
IX. 263). Who has not had his mother say: "Does it hurt? Come and let me kiss it, and make
it well."

Moreover, Reclus tells us, "There are Esquimaux who go further in their demonstrations of affection,
and carrying their complaisance as far as Mamma Puss and Mamma Bruin, lick their babies to
clean them, lick them well over from head to foot" (523. 38). Nor is it always the mother who
thus acts. Mantegazza observes: "I even know a very affectionate child, who, without having
learnt it from any one, licks the people to whom he wishes to show friendship" (499. 144).

Massage.

Che nasce bella nasce maritata,--"the girl born pretty is born married,"--says the Italian
proverb, and many devices there are among primitive races to ensure the beauty which custom
demands, but which nature has failed to provide.

Among the Songish Indians of British Columbia, there is a saying: Tou o'wuna tans ksEtctca'ai,--"as
if no mother had made you look nice." Doctor Boas describes the "making the child look nice"
as follows (404. 20):--

"As soon as it is born, the mother rubs it from the mouth towards the ears, so as to press
the cheek-bones somewhat upward. The outer corners of the eyes are pulled outward that they
may not become round, which is considered ill-looking. The calves of the legs are pressed backward
and upward, the knees are tied together to prevent the feet from turning inward, the forehead
is pressed down." Among the Nootka Indians, according to the same authority: "Immediately after
birth, the eyebrows of the babe are pressed upward, its belly is pressed forward, and the calves
of the legs are squeezed from the ankles upward. All these manipulations are believed to improve
the appearance of the child. It is believed that the pressing of the eyebrows will give them
the peculiar shape that may be noticed in all carvings of the Indians of the North Pacific
Coast. The squeezing of the legs is intended to produce slim ankles" (404. 39).

The subject of the human physiognomy and physical characteristics in folk-lore and folk-speech
is a very entertaining one, and the practices in vogue for beautifying these are legion and
found all over the world (204).

Face-Games.

Some recollection of such procedure as that of the Songish Indians seems to linger, perhaps,
in the game, which Sicilian nurses play on the baby's features. It consists in "lightly touching
nose, mouth, eyes, etc., giving a caress or slap to the chin," and repeating at the same time
the verses:--

  "Varvaruttedu
  Vucca d'aneddu,
  Nasu affilatu,
  Ocehi di stiddi
  Frunti quatrata
  E te 'cca 'na timpulata."

In French we have corresponding to this:--

  "Beau front
  Petits yeux,
  Nez can can,
  Bouche d'argent,
  Menton fleuri,
  Chichirichi."

In Scotch:--

  "Chin cherry,
  Moo merry,
  Nose nappie,
  Ee winkie,
  Broo brinkie,
  Cock-up jinkie."

In English:--

  "Eye winker,
  Tom Tinker,
  Nose dropper,
  Mouth eater.
  Chin chopper."

And cognate practices exist all over the globe (204. 21).

Primitive Weighing.

"Worth his weight in gold" is an expression which has behind it a long history of folk-thought.
Professor Gaidoz, in his essay on Ransom by Weight (236), and Haberlandt, in his paper on the
Tulapurusha, Man-Weighing (248) of India, have shown to what extent has prevailed in Europe
and Asia the giving of one's weight in gold or other precious substances by prisoners to their
captors, in order to secure their liberty, by devotees to the church, or to some saint, as
a cure for, or a preventitive of disease, or as an act of charity or of gratitude for favours
received.

The expression used of Belshazzar in Daniel v. 27, "Thou art weighed in the balance, and found
wanting" (and the analogue in Job xxxi. 6), has been taken quite literally, and in Brittany,
according to the Abbot of Soissons, there was a Chapel of the Balances, "in which persons who
came to be cured miraculously, were weighed, to ascertain whether their weight diminished when
prayer was made by the monks in their behalf." Brewer informs us that "Rohese, the mother of
Thomas Becket, used to weigh her boy every year on his birthday, against the money, clothes,
and provisions which she gave to the poor" (191.41). From Gregory of Tours we learn that Charicus,
King of the Suevi, when his son was ill, "hearing of the miraculous power of the bones of St.
Martin, had his son weighed against gold and silver, and sent the amount to his sepulchre and
sanctuary at Tours" (236. 60).

Weighing of infants is looked upon with favour in some portions of western Europe, and to the
same source we may ultimately trace the modern baby's card with the weight of the newcomer
properly inscribed upon it,--a fashion which bids fair to be a valuable anthropometric adjunct.
"Hefting the baby" has now taken on a more scientific aspect than it had of yore.

The following curious custom of the eastern Eskimo is perhaps to be mentioned here, a practice
connected with their treatment of the sick. "A stone weighing three or four pounds, according
to the gravity of the sickness, is placed by a matron under the pillow. Every morning she weighs
it, pronouncing meanwhile words of mystery. Thus she informs herself of the state of the patient
and his chances of recovery. If the stone grows constantly heavier, it is because the sick
man cannot escape, and his days are numbered" (523. 39).

It is a far cry from Greenland to England, but there are connecting links in respect of folk-practice.
Mr. Dyer informs us that in the parish church of Wingrove, near Ailesbury, as late as 1759,
a certain Mrs. Hammokes was accused of witchcraft, and her husband demanded the "trial by the
church Bible." So "she was solemnly conducted to the parish church, where she was stript of
all her clothes to her shift, and weighed against the great parish Bible in the presence of
all her neighbours. The result was that, to the no small mortification of her accuser, she
outweighed the Bible, and was triumphantly acquitted of the charge" (436. 307, 308).

How often has not woman, looked upon in the light of a child, been subjected to the same practices
and ceremonies!

Primitive Measurements.

The etymology and original significance of our common English words, span, hand, foot, cubit,
fathom, and their cognates and equivalents in other languages, to say nothing of the self-explanatory
finger's breadth, arm's length, knee-high, ankle-deep, etc., go back to the same rude anthropometry
of prehistoric and primitive times, from which the classic peoples of antiquity obtained their
canons of proportion and symmetry of the human body and its members. Among not a few primitive
races it is the child rather than the man that is measured, and we there meet with a rude sort
of anthropometric laboratory. From Ploss, who devotes a single paragraph to "Measurements of
the Body," we learn that these crude measurements are of great importance in folk-medicine:--

"In Bohemia, the new-born child is usually measured by an old woman, who measures all the limbs
with a ribbon, and compares them with one another; the hand, e.g., must be as long as the face.
If the right relations do not subsist, prayers and various superstitious practices are resorted
to in order to prevent the devil from injuring the child, and the evil spirits are driven out
of the house by means of fumigation. In the case of sick children in Bohemia the measuring
is resorted to as a sympathetic cure. In other parts of Germany, on the other hand, in Schleswig-Holstein,
Thuringia, Oldenburg, it is thought that measuring and weighing the new-born child may interfere
with its thriving and growth" (326. I. 302).

Sibree states that in Madagascar, at circumcision, the child is measured and sprinkled with
water (214. 6), and Ellis, in his history of that island, gives the following details of the
ceremony (History of Madagascar, Vol. I. p. 182):--

"The children on whom the rite is to be performed are next led across the blood of the animal
just killed, to which some idea of sacredness is attached. They are then placed on the west
side of the house, and, as they stand erect, a man holding a light cane in his hand, measures
the first child to the crown of the head, and at one stroke cuts off a piece of the cane measured
to that height, having first carefully dipped the knife in the blood of the slaughtered sheep.
The knife is again dipped in the blood, and the child measured to the waist, when the cane
is cut to that height. He is afterwards measured to the knee with similar results. The same
ceremony is performed on all the children successively. The meaning of this, if indeed any
meaning can be attached to it, seems to be the symbolical removal of all evils to which the
children might be exposed,--first from the head to the waist, then from the waist to the knees,
and finally, from the knees to the sole of the foot."

The general question of the measurement of sick persons (not especially children), and of the
payment of an image or a rod of precious metal of the height of a given person, or the height
of his waist, shoulders, knee, etc., of the person, in recompense for some insult or injury,
has been treated of by Grimm, Gaidoz, and Haberlandt. Gaidoz remarks (236. 74): "It is well
known that in Catholic countries it is customary to present the saints with votive offerings
in wax, which are representative of the sicknesses for which the saints are invoked; a wax
limb, or a wax eye, for instance, are representative of a sore limb or of a sore eye, the cure
of which is expected from the saint. Wax bodies were offered in the same way, as we learn from
a ludicrous story told by Henri Estienne, a French writer of the sixteenth century. The story
is about a clever monk who made credulous parents believe he had saved their child by his prayers,
and he says to the father, 'Now your son is safe, thanks to God; one hour ago I should not
have thought you would have kept him alive. But do you know what you are to do? You ought to
have a wax effigy of his own size made for the glory of God, and put it before the image of
the holy Ambrose, at whose intercession our Lord did this favour to you.'" Even poorer people
were in the habit of offering wax candles of the height or of the weight of the sick person.

In 1888, M. Letourneau (299) called attention to the measurement of the neck as a test of puberty,
and even of the virginity of maidens. In Brittany, "According to popular opinion, there is
a close relation between the volume of the neck and puberty, sometimes even the virginity of
girls. It is a common sight to see three young girls of uncertain age measure in sport the
circumference of the neck of one of them with a thread. The two ends of this thread are placed
between the teeth of the subject, and the endeavour is made to make the loop of the thread
pass over the head. If the operation succeeds, the young girl is declared 'bonne a marier.'"
MM. Hanoteau and Letourneau state that among the Kabyles of Algeria a similar measurement is
made of the male sex. In Kabylia, where the attainment of the virile state brings on the necessity
of paying taxes and bearing arms, families not infrequently endeavour to conceal the puberty
of their young men. If such deceit is suspected, recourse is had to the test of neck-measurement.
Here again, as in Brittany, if the loop formed by the thread whose two ends are held in the
teeth passes over the head, the young man is declared of age, and enrolled among the citizens,
whilst his family is punished by a fine. M. Manouvrier also notes that the same test is also
employed to discover whether an adolescent is to be compelled to keep the fast of Rhamadan.

Measurements of Limbs and Body.

M. Mahoudeau cites from Tillaux's Anatomie topographique, and MM. Perdrizet and Gaidoz in Melusine
for 1893, quote from the Secrets merveilleux de la magie naturette et cabalistique du Petit
Albert (1743) extracts relating to this custom, which is also referred to by the Roman writers
C. Valerius, Catullus, Vossius, and Scaliger. The subject is an interesting one, and merits
further investigation. Ellis (42. 233) has something to say on the matter from a scientific
point of view. Grimm has called attention to the very ancient custom of measuring a patient,
"partly by way of cure, partly to ascertain if the malady were growing or abating." This practice
is frequently mentioned in the German poems and medical books of the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries. In one case a woman says of her husband, "I measured him till he forgot everything,"
and another, desirous of persuading hers that he was not of sound mind, took the measure of
his length and across his head. In a Zurich Ms. of 1393, "measuring" is included among the
unchristian and forbidden things of sorcery. In the region about Treves, a malady known as
night-grip (Nachtgriff) is ascertained to be present by the following procedure: "Draw the
sick man's belt about his naked body lengthwise and breadthwise, then take it off and hang
it on a nail with the words 'O God, I pray thee, by the three virgins, Margarita, Maria Magdalena,
and Ursula, be pleased to vouchsafe a sign upon the sick man, if he have the nightgrip or no';
then measure again, and if the belt be shorter than before, it is a sign of the said sickness."
In the Liegnitz country, in 1798, we are told there was hardly a village without its messerin
(measuress), an old woman, whose modus operandi was this: "When she is asked to say whether
a person is in danger from consumption, she takes a thread and measures the patient, first
from head to heel, then from tip to tip of the outspread arms; if his length be less than his
breadth then he is consumptive; the less the thread will measure his arms, the farther has
the disease advanced; if it reaches only to the elbow, there is no hope for him. The measuring
is repeated from time to time; if the thread stretches and reaches its due length again, the
danger is removed. The wise woman must never ask money for her trouble, but take what is given."
In another part of Germany, "a woman is stript naked and measured with a piece of red yarn
spun on a Sunday." Sembrzycki tells us that in the Elbing district, and elsewhere in that portion
of Prussia, the country people are firmly possessed by the idea that a decrease in the measure
of the body is the source of all sorts of maladies. With an increase of sickness the hands
and feet are believed to lose more and more their just proportional relations one with another,
and it is believed that one can determine how much measure is yet to be lost, how long the
patient has yet to live. This belief has given rise to the proverbial phrase das Maas verlieren--"to
lose one's measure" (462. III. 1163-5).

Not upon adults alone, however, were these measurements carried out, but upon infants, children,
and youths as well. Even in the New World, among the more conservative of the population of
Aryan origin, these customs still nourish, as we learn from comparatively recent descriptions
of trustworthy investigators. Professor J. Howard Gore, in the course of an interesting article
on "The Go-Backs," belief in which is current among the dwellers in the mountain regions of
the State of Virginia, tells us that when some one has suggested that "the baby has the 'go-backs,'"
the following process is gone through: "The mother then must go alone with the babe to some
old lady duly instructed in the art or science of curing this blighting disease. She, taking
the infant, divests it of its clothing and places it on its back. Then, with a yarn string,
she measures its length or height from the crown of the head to the sole of the heel, cutting
off a piece which exactly represents this length. This she applies to the foot, measuring off
length by length, to see if the piece of yarn contains the length of the foot an exact number
of times. This operation is watched by the mother with the greatest anxiety, for on this coincidence
of measure depends the child's weal or woe. If the length of the string is an exact multiple
of the length of the foot, nothing is wrong, but if there is a remainder, however small, the
baby has the go-backs, and the extent of the malady is proportional to this remainder. Of course
in this measuring, the elasticity of the yarn is not regarded, nor repetitions tried as a test
of accuracy" (244. 108). Moreover, "the string with which the determination was made must be
hung on the hinge of a gate on the premises of the infant's parents, and as the string by gradual
decay passes away, so passes away the 'go-backs.' But if the string should be lost, the ailment
will linger until a new test is made and the string once more hung out to decay. Sometimes
the cure is hastened by fixing the string so that wear will come upon it."

Professor Gore aptly refers to the Latin proverb ex pede Herculem, which arose from the calculation
of Pythagoras, who from the stadium of 6000 feet laid out by Hercules for the Olympian games,
by using his own foot as the unit, obtained the length of the foot of the mighty hero, whence
he also deduced his height. We are not told, however, as the author remarks, whether or not
Hercules had the "go-backs."

Among the white settlers of the Alleghanies between southwestern Georgia and the Pennsylvania
line, according to Mr. J. Hampden Porter, the following custom is in vogue: "Measuring an infant,
whose growth has been arrested, with an elastic cord that requires to be stretched in order
to equal the child's length, will set it right again. If the spell be a wasting one, take three
strings of similar or unlike colours, tie them to the front door or gate in such a manner that
whenever either are opened there is some wear and tear of the cords. As use begins to tell
upon them, vigour will recommence" (480. VII. 116). Similar practices are reported from Central
Europe by Sartori (392 (1895). 88), whose article deals with the folk-lore of counting, weighing,
and measuring.

Tests of Physical Efficiency.

That certain rude tests of physical efficiency, bodily strength, and power of endurance have
been and are in use among primitive peoples, especially at the birth of children, or soon after,
or just before, at, or after, puberty, is a well-known fact, further testified to by the occurrence
of these practices in folk-tales and fairy-stories. Lifting stones, jumping over obstacles,
throwing stones, spears, and the like, crawling or creeping through holes in stones, rocks,
or trees, have all been in vogue, and some of them survive even to-day in England and in other
parts of Europe as popular tests of puberty and virginity. Mr. Dyer, in his Church Lore Gleanings,
mentions the "louping," or "petting" stone at Belford, in Northumberland (England), a stone
"placed in the path outside the church porch, over which the bridal pair with their attendants
must leap"--the belief is that "the bride must leave all her pets and humours behind her when
she crosses it." At High-Coquetdale, according to Mr. Henderson, in 1868, a bride was made
to jump over a stick held by two groomsmen at the church door (436. 125). Another very curious
practice is connected with St. Wilfrid's "needle" at Ripon Cathedral--said to be an imitation
of the Basilican transenna. Through this passage maidens who were accused of unchastity crept
in order to prove their innocence. If they could not pass through, their guilt was presumed.
It is also believed that "poor palsied folk crept through in the expectation of being healed."
At Boxley Church in Kent, there was a "small figure of St. Rumbold, which only those could
lift who had never sinned in thought or deed" (436. 312, 313).

At a marriage among the Nootka Indians of Vancouver Island, the groom's party essay feats like
these: "Heavy weights are lifted; they try who is the best jumper. A blanket with a hole in
the centre is hung up, and men walk up to it blindfolded from a distance of about twenty steps.
When they get near it they must point with their fingers towards the blanket, and try to hit
the hole. They also climb a pole, on top of which an eagle's nest, or something representing
an eagle's nest, is placed. The winner of each game receives a number of blankets from the
girl's father. When the games are at an end, the groom's father distributes blankets among
the other party" (404. 43). This reminds us of the games at picnics and social gatherings of
our own people.

In the Gentleman's Magazine for January, 1895, S. O. Addy, in an article entitled "English
Surnames and Heredity," points out how the etymologies give us some indications of the physical
characteristics of the persons on whom the names were conferred. In primitive times and among
the lower races names are even of more importance in this respect.

Clark says: "I have seen a baby not two days old snugly tied up in one of these little sacks;
the rope tied to the pommel of the saddle, the sack hanging down alongside of the pony, and
mother and child comfortably jogging along, making a good day's march in bitter cold winter
weather, easily keeping up with a column of cavalry which was after hostile Indians. After
being carefully and firmly tied in the cradle, the child, as a rule, is only taken out to be
cleaned in the morning, and again in the evening just before the inmates of a lodge go to sleep;
sometimes also in the middle of the day, but on the march only morning and evening" (420. 57).

In his account of the habits of the Tarahumari Indians, Lumholtz observes: "Heat never seems
to trouble them. I have seen young babies sleeping with uncovered heads on the backs of their
mothers, exposed to the fierce heat of the summer sun." The same writer tells us that once
he pulled six hairs at once from a sleeping child, "without causing the least disturbance,"
and only when twenty-three had been extracted at once did the child take notice, and then only
scratched its head and slept on (107. 297).

Colonel Dodge notes the following practice in vogue among the wild Indians of the West:--

"While the child, either boy or girl, is very young, the mother has entire charge, control,
and management of it. It is soon taught not to cry by a very summary process. When it attempts
to 'set up a yell,' the mother covers its mouth with the palm of her hand, grasps its nose
between her thumb and forefinger, and holds on until the little one is nearly suffocated. It
is then let go, to be seized and smothered again at the first attempt to cry. The baby very
soon comprehends that silence is the best policy" (432.187).

Of the Indians of Lower California, who learn to stand and walk before they are a year old,
we are told on the authority of the missionary Baegert: "When they are born they are cradled
in the shell of a turtle or on the ground. As soon as the child is a few months old, the mother
places it perfectly naked astraddle on her shoulders, its legs hanging down on both sides in
front. In this guise the mother roves about all day, exposing her helpless charge to the hot
rays of the sun and the chilly winds that sweep over the inhospitable country" (306. 185).

Sleep.

Curious indeed are some of the methods in use among primitive peoples to induce sleep. According
to Mr. Fraser, the natives of a village near the banks of the Girree, in the Himalayan region
of India, had the following custom (Quart. Rev. XXIV. 109):--

"The mother, seizing the infant with both arms and aided by the knees, gives it a violent whirling
motion, that would seem rather calculated to shake the child in pieces than to produce the
effect of soft slumber; but the result was unerring, and in a few seconds the child was fast
asleep."

Somewhat akin to this procedure is the practice our modern mothers and nurses have of swinging
the baby through a sort of semicircle in their arms, accompanying it with the familiar song,--

  "This way,
  And that way," etc.

This song and action, their dolls doing duty as children, have been introduced into the kindergarten,
and even figure now in "doll-drills" on the stage, and at church festivals and society entertainments.

Of the same village the author goes on to say:--

"Several straw sheds are constructed on a bank, above which a cold clear stream is led to water
their fields, and a small portion of this, probably of three fingers' breadth, is brought into
the shed by a hollow stick or piece of bark, and falls from this spout into a small drain,
which carries it off about two feet below. The women bring their children to these huts in
the heat of the day, and having lulled them to sleep and wrapt their bodies and feet warm in
a blanket, they place them on a small bench or tray horizontally, in such a way that the water
shall fall upon the crown of the head, just keeping the whole top wet with its stream. We saw
two under this operation, and several others came in while we remained, to place their children
in a similar way. Males and females are equally used thus, and their sleep seemed sound and
unruffled."

"Heroic Treatment."

The Andamanese baby "within a few hours of its birth has its head shaved and painted with kovob--(an
ochre-mixture), while its diminutive face and body are adorned with a design in tiela-og--(white
clay); this latter, as may be supposed, is soon obliterated, and requires therefore to be constantly
renewed." We are further informed that before shaving an infant, "the mother usually moistens
the head with milk which she presses from her breast," while with older children and adults
water serves for this purpose (498. 114).

The "heroic treatment," meted out by primitive peoples to children, as they approach puberty,
has been discussed in detail by Ploss, Kulischer, Daniels. Religion and the desire to attract
the affection or attention of the other sex seem to lie very close to the fundamental reasons
for many of these practices, as Westermarck points out in his chapter on the "Means of Attraction."
(166. 165-212). A divine origin is often ascribed to these strange mutilations. "The Australian
Dieyerie, on being asked why he knocks out two front teeth of the upper jaw of his children,
can answer only that, when they were created, the Muranaura, a good spirit, thus disfigured
the first child, and, pleased at the sight, commanded that the like should be done to every
male or female child for ever after. The Pelew Islanders believe that the perforation of the
septum of the nose is necessary for winning eternal bliss; and the Nicaraguans say that their
ancestors were instructed by the gods to flatten their children's heads. Again, in Fiji it
is supposed that the custom of tattooing is in conformity with the appointment of the god Dengei,
and that its neglect is punished after death. A similar idea prevails among the Kingsmill Islanders
and Ainos; and the Greenlanders formerly believed that the heads of those girls who had not
been deformed by long stitches made with a needle and black thread between the eyes, on the
forehead, and upon the chin, would be turned into train tubs and placed under the lamps in
heaven, in the land of souls" (165. 170, 171).

Were all the details of the fairy-tales true, which abound in every land, the cruelty meted
out to the child suspected of being a changeling would surpass human belief. Hartland enumerates
the following procedures as having been in use, according to legend, to determine the justice
of the suspicion: Flinging the child on a dung-heap; putting in the oven; holding a red-hot
shovel before the child's face; heating a poker red-hot to mark a cross on its forehead; heating
the tongs red-hot to seize it by the nose; throwing on, or into, the fire; suspending over
the fire in a pot; throwing the child naked on the glowing embers at midnight; throwing into
lake, river, or sea (258. 120-123). These and many more figure in story, and not a few of them
seem to have been actually practised upon the helpless creatures, who, like the heathen, were
not supposed to call for pity or love. Mr. Hartland cites a case of actual attempt to treat
a supposed changeling in a summary manner, which occurred no later than May 17,1884, in the
town of Clonmel, Ireland. In the absence of the mother of a three-year-old child (fancied by
the neighbours to be a changeling), two women "entered her house and placed the child naked
on a hot shovel, 'under the impression that it would break the charm,'"--the only result being,
of course, that the infant was very severely burned (258. 121).

On the other hand, children of true Christian origin, infants who afterwards become saints,
are subject to all sorts of torment at the hands of Satan and his angels, at times, but come
forth, like the "children" of the fiery furnace in the time of Daniel, in imitation of whose
story many of the hagiological legends have doubtless been put forth, unscathed from fire,
boiling water, roaring torrents, and other perilous or deadly situations (191. 9,122).

CHAPTER VII.

THE BRIGHT SIDE OF CHILD-LIFE: PARENTAL AFFECTION.

These are my jewels.--Cornelia (mother of the Gracchi).

Children always turn towards the light.--Hare.

  That I could bask in Childhood's sun
  And dance o'er Childhood's roses!--Praed.

Grief fills the room up of my absent child.--Shakespeare.

Parental Love.

In his essay on The Pleasures of Home, Sir John Lubbock makes the following statement (494.

How unfortunately inaccurate, how entirely unjustifiable, such a declaration is, may be seen
from the study of the words for love in two of the Algonkian dialects,--Cree and Chippeway,--which
Dr. Brinton has made in one of his essays, The Conception of Love in some American Languages.
Let us quote the ipsissima verba (411. 415):--

(1) "In both of them the ordinary words for love and friendship are derived from the same monosyllabic
root, sak. On this, according to the inflectional laws of the dialects, are built up the terms
for the love of man to woman, a lover, love in the abstract, a friend, friendship, and the
like. It is also occasionally used by the missionaries for the love of man to God and of God
to man."

(2) "The Cree has several words which are confined to parental and filial love, and to that
which the gods have for men."

(3) "In the Chippeway there is a series of expressions for family love and friendship which
in their origin carry us back to the same psychological process which developed the Latin amare
from the Sanscrit sam."

(4) "The highest form of love, however, that which embraces all men and all beings, that whose
conception is conveyed in the Greek [Greek: agapa], we find expressed in both the dialects
by derivatives from a root different from any I have mentioned. It is in its dialectic forms
kis, keche, or kiji, and in its origin it is an intensive interjectional expression of pleasure,
indicative of what gives joy. Concretely, it signifies what is completed, permanent, powerful,
perfected, perfect. As friendship and love yield the most exalted pleasure, from this root
the natives drew a fund of words to express fondness, attachment, hospitality, charity; and
from the same worthy source they selected that adjective [kije, kise], which they applied to
the greatest and most benevolent divinity."

Surely this people cannot be charged with a lack of words for love, whose language enables
them so well to express its every shade of meaning. Nay, they have even seen from afar that
"God is Love," as their concept of Michabo tells us they had already perceived that He was "Light."

Motherhood and Fatherhood.

The nobility and the sanctity of motherhood have found recognition among the most primitive
of human races. A Mussulman legend of Adam and Eve represents the angel Gabriel as saying to
the mother of mankind after the expulsion from Paradise: "Thou shalt be rewarded for all the
pains of motherhood, and the death of a woman in child-bed shall be accounted as martyrdom"
(547. 38). The natives of the Highlands of Borneo hold that to a special hereafter, known as
"Long Julan," go those who have suffered a violent death (been killed in battle, or by the
falling of a tree, or some like accident), and women who die in child-birth; which latter become
the wives of those who have died in battle. In this Paradise everybody is rich, with no need
for labour, as all wants are supplied without work (475. 199).

Somewhat similar beliefs prevailed in ancient Mexico and among the Eskimo.

Even so with the father. Zoroaster said in the book of the law: "I name the married before
the unmarried, him who has a household before him who has none, the father of a family before
him who is childless" (125. I. 108). Dr. Winternitz observes of the Jews: "To possess children
was always the greatest good-fortune that could befall a Jew. It was deemed the duty of every
man to beget a son; the Rabbis, indeed, considered a childless man as dead. To the Cabbalists
of the Middle Ages, the man who left no posterity behind him seemed one who had not fulfilled
his mission in this world, and they believed that he had to return once more to earth and complete
it" (385. 5).

Ploss (125. I. 108) and Lallemand (286. 21) speak in like terms of this children-loving people.
The Talmud ranks among the dead "the poor, the leprous, the blind, and those who have no children,"
and the wives of the patriarchs of old cheerfully adopted as their own the children born to
their husband by slave or concubine. To be the father of a large family, the king of a numerous
people, was the ideal of the true Israelite. So, also, was it in India and China.

Ploss and Haberlandt have a good deal to say of the ridicule lavished upon old maids and bachelors
among the various peoples and races, and Rink has recorded not a few tales on this head from
the various tribes of the Eskimo--in these stories, which are of a more or less trifling and
outre character, bachelors are unmercifully derided (525. 465).

With the Chippeways, also, the bachelor is a butt for wit and sarcasm. A tale of the Mississagas
of Skugog represents a bachelor as "having gone off to a certain spot and built a lot of little
'camps.' He built fires, etc., and passed his time trying to make people believe he was not
alone. He used to laugh and talk, and pretend that he had people living there." Even the culture-heroes
Gluskap and Naniboju are derided in some of the tales for not being married (166. 376).

According to Barbosa (67. 161), a writer of the early part of the sixteenth century, the Nairs,
a Dravidian people of the Malabar coast (523. 159), believed that "a maiden who refused to
marry and remained a virgin would be shut out of Paradise." The Fijians excluded from Paradise
all bachelors; they were smashed to pieces by the god Nangganangga (166. 137).

In the early chronicles and mythic lore of many peoples there are tales of childless couples,
who, in their quaint fashion, praying to the gods, have been blest with the desired offspring.
There is, however, no story more pathetic, or more touching, than the Russian folk-tale cited
by Ralston, in which we read concerning an old childless couple (520. 176): "At last the husband
went into the forest, felled wood, and made a cradle. Into this his wife laid one of the logs
he had cut, and began swinging it, crooning the while a tune beginning:--

  'Swing, blockie dear, swing.'

After a little time, behold! the block already had legs. The old woman rejoiced greatly, and
began swinging anew, and went on swinging until the block became a babe."

The rude prayers and uncouth aspirations of barbarous and savage peoples, these crude ideas
of the uncivilized races of men, when sounded in their deepest depths, are the folk-expression
of the sacredness of the complete family, the forerunners of the poet's prayer:--

  "Seigneur! preservez-moi, preservez ceux que j'aime,
  Freres, parents, amis, et ennemis meme
  Dans le mal triomphants,
  De jamais voir, Seigneur! l'ete sans fleurs vermeilles,
  La cage sans oiseaux, la ruche sans abeilles,
  La maison sans enfants."

The affection of the ancient Egyptians for their children is noted by Erman. The child is called
"mine," "the only one," and is "loved as the eyes of its parents"; it is their "beauty," or
"wealth." The son is the "fair-come" or "welcome"; at his birth "wealth comes." At the birth
of a girl it is said "beauty comes," and she is called "the lady of her father" (441. 216-230).
Interesting details of Egyptian child-life and education may be read in the recently edited
text of Amelineau (179), where many maxims of conduct and behaviour are given. Indeed, in the
naming of children we have some evidence of motherly and fatherly affection, some indication
of the gentle ennobling influence of this emotion over language and linguistic expression.

Parental affection is nowhere more strongly brought out than in the lamentations for the dead
among some of the lowest tribes of Californian Indians. Of the Yokaia, Mr. Powers tells us
(519. 166):--

"It is their custom to 'feed the spirits of the dead' for the space of one year, by going daily
to places which they were accustomed to frequent while living, where they sprinkle pinole upon
the ground. A Yokaia mother who has lost her babe goes every day for a year to some place where
her little one played while alive, or to the spot where its body was burned, and milks her
breasts into the air. This is accompanied by plaintive mourning and weeping and piteous calling
upon her little one to return, and sometimes she sings a hoarse and melancholy chant, and dances
with a wild, ecstatic swaying of the body."

Of the Miwok the same authority says:--

"The squaws wander off into the forest, wringing their arms piteously, beating the air, with
eyes upturned, and adjuring the departed one, whom they tenderly call 'dear child,' or 'dear
cousin' (whether a relative or not), to return."

Of the Niskwaili Indians, of the State of Washington, Dr. Gibbs observes (457. 205):--

"They go out alone to some place a little distant from the lodge or camp, and in a loud, sobbing
voice, repeat a sort of stereotyped formula, as, for instance, a mother on the loss of her child:--

  'Ah seahb! shed-da bud-dah ah-ta-bud! ad-de-dah!
   Ah chief  my  child  dead!  alas!'

When in dreams they see any of their deceased friends this lamentation is renewed."

Very beautiful and touching in the extreme is the conduct of the Kabinapek of California:--

"A peculiarity of this tribe is the intense sorrow with which they mourn for their children
when dead. Their grief is immeasurable. They not only burn up everything that the baby ever
touched, but everything that they possess, so that they absolutely begin life over again--naked
as they were born, without an article of property left" (519. 206).

Besides the custom of "feeding the spirits of the dead," just noticed, there exists also among
certain of the Californian Indians the practice of "whispering a message into the ear of the
dead." Mr. Powers has preserved for us the following most beautiful speech, which, he tells
us, was whispered into the ear of a child by a woman of the Karok ere the first shovelful of
earth was cast upon it (519. 34): "O, darling, my dear one, good-bye! Never more shall your
little hands softly clasp these old withered cheeks, and your pretty feet shall print the moist
earth around my cabin never more. You are going on a long journey in the spirit-land, and you
must go alone, for none of us can go with you. Listen then to the words which I speak to you
and heed them well, for I speak the truth. In the spirit-land there are two roads. One of them
is a path of roses, and it leads to the Happy Western Land beyond the great water, where you
shall see your dear mother. The other is a path strewn with thorns and briars, and leads, I
know not whither, to an evil and dark land, full of deadly serpents, where you wander forever.
O, dear child, choose you the path of roses, which leads to the Happy Western Land, a fair
and sunny land, beautiful as the morning. And may the great Kareya [the Christ of these aborigines]
help you to walk in it to the end, for your little tender feet must walk alone. O, darling,
my dear one, good-bye!"

This whispering to the dead is found in other parts of the world. Mr. Hose, describing the
funeral of a boy, which he witnessed in Borneo, says (475. 198):--

"As the lid of the coffin was being closed, an old man came out on the verandah of the house
with a large gong (Tetawak) and solemnly beat it for several seconds. The chief, who was sitting
near, informed me that this was done always before closing the lid, that the relations of the
deceased might know that the spirit was coming to join them; and upon his arrival in Apo Leggan
[Hades] they would probably greet him in such terms as these: 'O grandchild, it was for you
the gong was beating, which we heard just now; what have you brought? How are they all up above?
Have they sent any messages?'" The new arrival then delivers the messages entrusted to him,
and gives the cigarettes--which, rolled up in a banana-leaf, have been placed in his hand--as
proof of the truth of what he says. These cigarettes retain the smell of the hand that made
them, which the dead relations are thought to be able to recognize.

Motherhood and Infanticide.

The intimate relationship recognized as existing between the infant and its mother has been
among many primitive peoples a frequent cause of infanticide, or has been held at least to
excuse and justify that crime. Of the natives of Ashanti, Ellis says:--

"Should the mother die in childbirth, and the child itself be born alive, it is customary to
bury it with the mother.... The idea seems to be that the child belongs to the mother, and
is sent to accompany her to Srahmanadzi [ghost-land], so that her srahman [ghost] may not grieve
for it" (438. 234). Post states that in Unyoro, when the mother dies in childbirth, the infant
is killed; among the Hottentots it was exposed (if the mother died during the time of suckling,
the child was buried alive with her); among the Damara, "when poor women die and leave children
behind them, they are often buried with the mother" (127. I. 287).

According to Collins and Barrington, among certain native tribes of Australia, "when the mother
of a suckling dies, if no adoptive parents can be found, the child is placed alive in the arms
of the corpse and buried together with it" (125. II. 589). Of the Banians of Bombay, Niebuhr
tells us that children under eighteen months old are buried when the mother dies, the corpse
of the latter being burned at ebb tide on the shore of the sea, so that the next tide may wash
away the ashes (125. II. 581). In certain parts of Borneo: "If a mother died in childbirth,
it was the former practice to strap the living babe to its dead mother, and bury them both,
together. 'Why should it live?' say they. 'It has been the death of its mother; now she is
gone, who will suckle it?'" (481 (1893). 133).

In certain parts of Australia, "children who have caused their mother great pain in birth are
put to death" (127. I. 288), and among the Sakalavas of Madagascar, the child of a woman dying
in childbed is buried alive with her, the reason given being "that the child may thus be punished
for causing the death of its mother" (125. II. 590).

As has been noted elsewhere, not a few primitive peoples have considered that death, in consequence
of giving birth to a child, gained for the mother entrance into Paradise. But with some more
or less barbarous tribes quite a different idea prevails. Among the Ewe negroes of the slave
coast of West Africa, women dying in childbirth become blood-seeking demons; so also in certain
parts of Borneo, and on the Sumatran island of Nias, where they torment the living, plague
women who are with child, and kill the embryo in the womb, thus causing abortion; in Java,
they make women in labour crazy; in Amboina, the Uliase and Kei Islands, and Gilolo, they become
evil spirits, torturing women in labour, and seeking to prevent their successful delivery;
in Gilolo, the Kei group, and Celebes, they even torment men, seeking to emasculate them, in
revenge for the misfortune which has overtaken them (397.19).

Of the Doracho Indians of Central America, the following statement is made: "When a mother,
who is still suckling her child, dies, the latter is placed alive upon her breast and burned
with her, so that in the future life she may continue to suckle it with her own milk" (125.
II. 589). Powers remarks concerning the Korusi (Patwin) Indians of California (519. 222): "When
a woman died, leaving her infant very young, the friends shook it to death in a skin or blanket.
This was done even with a half-breed child." Of the Nishinam Indians, the same authority informs
us: "When a mother dies, leaving a very young infant, custom allows the relatives to destroy
it. This is generally done by the grandmother, aunt, or other near relative, who holds the
poor innocent in her arms, and, while it is seeking the maternal fountain, presses it to her
breast until it is smothered. We must not judge them too harshly for this. They knew nothing
of bottle nurture, patent nipples, or any kind of milk whatever, other than the human" (519. 328).

Among the Wintun, also, young infants are known to have been buried when the mother had died
shortly after confinement (519. 232).

The Eskimo, Letourneau informs us, were wont to bury the little child with its dead mother,
for they believed that unless this were done, the mother herself would call from Killo, the
other world, for the child she had borne (100. 147, 148).

The Dead Mother.

To none of the saintly dead, to none of our race who have entered upon the life beyond the
grave, is it more meet to pray than to the mother; folk-faith is strong in her power to aid
and bless those left behind on earth. That sympathetic relation existing between mother and
child when both are living, is often believed to exist when one has departed into the other
world. By the name wa-hde ca-pi, the Dakota Indians call the feeling the (living) mother has
for her absent (living) child, and they assert that "mothers feel peculiar pain in their breasts
when anything of importance happens to their absent children, or when about to hear from them.
This feeling is regarded as an omen." That the mother, after death, should feel the same longing,
and should return to help or to nourish her child, is an idea common to the folk-belief of
many lands, as Ploss (125. II. 589) and Zmigrodzki have noted.

"Amid the song of the angels," says Zmigrodzki (174. 142), "the plaint of her child on earth
reaches the mother's ear, and pierces her heart like a knife. Descend to earth she must and
does." In Brittany she is said to go to God Himself and obtain permission to visit earth. Her
flight will be all the easier, if, before burial, her relatives have loosed her hair. In various
parts of Germany and Switzerland, the belief is that for six weeks the dead mother will come
at night to suckle her child, and a pair of slippers or shoes are always put into the coffin
with the corpse, for the mother has to travel over thistles, thorns, and sharp stones to reach
her child. Widespread over Europe is this belief in the return of the mother, who has died
in giving life to her little one. Till cock-crow in the morning she may suckle it, wash it,
fondle it; the doors open of themselves for her. If the child is being well treated by its
relatives, the mother rejoices, and soon departs; but if it has been neglected, she attends
to it, and waits till the last moment, making audible her unwillingness to depart. If the neglect
continues, the mother descends to earth once more, and, taking the child with her, returns
to heaven for good. And when the mother with her offspring approaches the celestial gates,
they fly wide open to receive them. Never, in the folk-faith, was entrance readier granted,
never was Milton's concept more completely realized, when

  "Heaven open'd wide
  Her ever-during gates, harmonious sound,
  On golden hinges moving."

In a modern Greek folk-song three youths plot to escape from Hades, and a young mother, eager
to return to earth to suckle her infant child, persuades them to allow her to accompany them.
Charon, however, suddenly appears upon the scene and seizes them just as they are about to
flee. The beautiful young woman then appeals to him: "Let go of my hair, Charon, and take me
by the hand. If thou wilt but give my child to drink, I will never try to escape from thee
again" (125. II. 589).

The watchful solicitude of the mother in heaven over her children on earth appears also in
the Basque country (505. 73), and Ralston, noting its occurrence in Russia, observes (520. 265):--

"Appeals for aid to a dead parent are of frequent occurrence in the songs still sung by the
Russian peasantry at funerals or over graves; especially in those in which orphans express
their grief, calling upon the grave to open, and the dead to appear and listen and help. So,
in the German tale, Cinderella is aided by the white bird, which dwells in the hazel-tree growing
out of her mother's grave."

Crude and savage, but born of a like faith in the power of the dead mother, is the inhuman
practice of the people of the Congo, where, it is said, "the son often kills his mother, in
order to secure the assistance of her soul, now a formidable spirit" (388. 81).

Heavy upon her offspring weighs the curse of a mother. Ralston, speaking of the Russian folk-tales,
says (520. 363):--

"Great stress is laid in the skazkas and legends upon the terrible power of a parent's curse.
The 'hasty word' of a father or a mother will condemn even an innocent child to slavery among
devils, and, when it has once been uttered, it is irrevocable," The same authority states,
however, that "infants which have been cursed by their mothers before their birth, or which
are suffocated during their sleep, or which die from any causes unchristened or christened
by a drunken priest, become the prey of demons," and in order to rescue the soul of such a
babe from the powers of evil "its mother must spend three nights in a church, standing within
a circle traced by the hand of a priest; when the cocks crow on the third morning the demons
will give her back her dead child."

Fatherly Affection.

That the father, as well as the mother, feels for his child after death, and appears to him,
is an idea found in fairy-story and legend, but nowhere so sweetly expressed as in the beautiful
Italian belief that "the kind, dear spirits of the dead relatives and parents come out of the
tombs to bring presents to the children of the family,--whatever their little hearts most desire."
The proverb,--common at Aci,--Veni me patri?--Appressu, "Is my father coming?--By and by,"
used "when an expected friend makes himself long waited for," is said to have the following
origin:--

"There was once a little orphan boy, who, in his anxiety to see his dead father once again,
went out into the night when the kind spirits walk, and, in spite of all the fearful beating
of his little heart, asked of every one whom he met: Veni me patri? and each one answered:
Appressu. As he had the courage to hold out to the end, he finally had the consolation of seeing
his father and having from him caresses and sweetmeats" (449. 327).

Rev. Mr. Grill speaks highly of the affection for children of the Polynesians. Following is
the translation of a song composed and sung by Rakoia, a warrior and chief of Mangaia, in the
Hervey Archipelago, on the death of his eldest daughter Enuataurere, by drowning, at the age
of fifteen (459. 32):--

  "My first-born; where art thou?
  Oh that my wild grief for thee,
  Pet daughter, could be assuaged!
  Snatched away in time of peace.

  Thy delight was to swim,
  Thy head encircled with flowers,
  Interwoven with fragrant laurel
  And the spotted-leaved jessamine.

  Whither is my pet gone--
  She who absorbed all my love--
  She whom I had hoped
  To fill with ancestral wisdom?

  Red and yellow pandanus drupes
  Were sought out in thy morning rambles,
  Nor was the sweet-scented myrtle forgotten.

  Sometimes thou didst seek out
  Fugitives perishing in rocks and caves.

  Perchance one said to thee,
  'Be mine, be mine, forever;
  For my love to thee is great.'

  Happy the parent of such a child!
  Alas for Enuataurere! Alas for Enuataurere!

  Thou wert lovely as a fairy!
  A husband for Enuataurere!

  Each envious youth exclaims:
  'Would that she were mine!'

  Enuataurere now trips o'er the ruddy ocean.
  Thy path is the foaming crest of the billow.

  Weep for Enuataurere--
  For Enuataurere."

This song, though, published in 1892, seems to have been composed about the year 1815, at a
fete in honour of the deceased. Mr. Gill justly calls attention to the beauty of the last stanza
but one, where "the spirit of the girl is believed to follow the sun, tripping lightly over
the crest of the billows, and sinking with the sun into the underworld (Avaiki), the home of
disembodied spirits."

Among others of the lower races of men, we find the father, expressing his grief at the loss
of a child, as tenderly and as sincerely as, if less poetically than, the Polynesian chief,
though often the daughter is not so well honoured in death as is the son. Our American Indian
tribes furnish not a few instances of such affectionate lamentation.

Much too little has been made of the bright side of child-life among the lower races. But from
even the most primitive of tribes all traces of the golden age of childhood are not absent.
Powers, speaking of the Yurok Indians of California, notes "the happy cackle of brown babies
tumbling on their heads with the puppies" (519. 51), and of the Wintun, in the wild-clover
season, "their little ones frolicked and tumbled on their heads in the soft sunshine, or cropped
the clover on all-fours like a tender calf" (519. 231). Of the Pawnee Indians, Irving says
(478. 214): "In the farther part of the building about a dozen naked children, with faces almost
hid by their tangled hair, were rolling and wrestling upon the floor, occasionally causing
the lodge to re-echo with their childish glee." Mr. im Thurn, while among the Indians of Guiana,
had his attention "especially attracted by one merry little fellow of about five years old,
whom I first saw squatting, as on the top of a hill, on top of a turtle-shell twice as big
as himself, with his knees drawn up to his chin, and solemnly smoking a long bark cigarette"
(477. 39). Of the wild Indians of the West, Colonel Dodge tells us: "The little children are
much petted and spoiled; tumbling and climbing, unreproved, over the father and his visitors
in the lodge, and never seem to be an annoyance or in the way" (432. 189). Mr. MacCauley, who
visited the Seminole Indians of Florida, says: "I remember seeing, one day, one jolly little
fellow, lolling and rollicking on his mother's back, kicking her and tugging away at the strings
of beads which hung temptingly between her shoulders, while the mother, hand-free, bore on
one shoulder a log, which, a moment afterwards, still keeping her baby on her back as she did
so, she chopped into small wood for the camp-fire." (496. 498).

There is a Zuni story of a young maiden, "who, strolling along, saw a beautiful little baby
boy bathing in the waters of a spring; she was so pleased with his beauty that she took him
home, and told her mother that she had found a lovely little boy" (358. 544). Unfortunately,
it turned out to be a serpent in the end.

Kissing.

As Darwin and other authorities have remarked, there are races of men upon the face of the
earth, in America, in Africa, in Asia, and in the Island world, who, when first seen of white
discoverers, knew not what it meant to kiss (499. 139). The following statement will serve
for others than the people to whom it refers: "The only kiss of which the Annamite woman is
cognizant is to place her nose against the man's cheek, and to rub it gently up and down, with
a kind of canine sniff."

Mantegazza tells us that Raden-Saleh, a "noble and intelligent" Javanese painter, told him
that, "like all Malays, he considered there was more tenderness in the contact of the noses
than of the lips," and even the Japanese, the English of the extreme Orient, were once ignorant
of the art of kissing (499. 139).

Great indeed is the gulf between the Javanese artist and the American, Benjamin West, who said:
"A kiss from my mother made me a painter." To a kiss from the Virgin Mother of Christ, legend
says, St. Chrysostom owed his "golden mouth." The story runs thus: "St. Chrysostom was a dull
boy at school, and so disturbed was he by the ridicule of his fellows, that he went into a
church to pray for help to the Virgin. A voice came from the image: 'Kiss me on the mouth,
and thou shalt be endowed with all learning.' He did this, and when he returned to his schoolfellows
they saw a golden circle about his mouth, and his eloquence and brilliancy astounded them"
(347. 621).

Among the natives of the Andaman Islands, Mr. Man informs us, "Kisses are considered indicative
of affection, but are only bestowed upon infants" (498. 79).

Tears.

Thus sang the great English laureate, and to the simple folk--the treasure-keepers of the lore
of the ages--his words mean much.

Pliny, the Elder, in his Natural History, makes this statement: "Man alone at the very moment
of his birth, cast naked upon the naked earth, does she [Nature] abandon to cries and lamentations;"
the writer of the Wisdom of Solomon, in the Apocrypha, expresses himself in like manner: "When
I was born, I drew in the common air, and fell upon the earth, which is of like nature, and
the first voice I uttered was crying, as all others do." Burton, in his Anatomy of Melancholy,
bluntly resumes both: "He is born naked, and falls a-whining at the first."

The Spaniards have a proverb, brusque and cynical:--

  "Des que naei llore, y cada dia nace porque.
  [I wept as soon as I was born, and every day explains why.]"

A quaint legend of the Jewish Rabbis, however, accounts for children's tears in this fashion:--

"Beside the child unborn stand two angels, who not only teach it the whole Tora [the traditional
interpretation of the Mosaic law], but also let it see all the joys of Paradise and all the
torments of Hell. But, since it may not be that a child should come into the world endowed
with such knowledge, ere it is born into the life of men an angel strikes it on the upper lip,
and all wisdom vanishes. The dimple on the upper lip is the mark of the stroke, and this is
why new-born babes cry and weep" (385. 6).

Curiously enough, as if to emphasize the relativity of folk-explanations, a Mussulman legend
states that it is "the touch of Satan" that renders the child "susceptible of sin from its
birth," and that is the reason why "all children cry aloud when they are born" (547. 249).

Henderson tells us that in the north and south of England "nurses think it lucky for the child
to cry at its baptism; they say that otherwise the baby shows that it is too good to live."
But there are those also who believe that "this cry betokens the pangs of the new birth," while
others hold that it is "the voice of the Evil Spirit as he is driven out by the baptismal water"
(469. 16).

Among the untaught peasantry of Sicily, the sweet story goes that "Mary sends an angel from
Heaven one day every week to play with the souls of the unbaptized children [in hell]; and
when he goes away, he takes with him, in a golden chalice, all the tears which the little innocents
have shed all through the week, and pours them into the sea, where they become pearls" (449. 326).

Here again we have a borrowing from an older myth. An Eastern legend has it that when Eden
was lost, Eve, the mother of all men, wept bitterly, and "her tears, which flowed into the
ocean, were changed into costly pearls, while those which fell on the earth brought forth all
beautiful flowers" (547. 34). In the classic myth, the pearl is said to have been born of the
tears of Venus, just as a Greek legend makes alektron come from the tears of the sisters of
Phaethon, the daughters of the sun, and Teutonic story turns the tears of the goddess Freyja
into drops of gold (462. III. 1218).

In the Kalevala we read how, after the wonderful harping of Wainamoinen, the great Finnish
hero, which enchanted beasts, birds, and even fishes, was over, the musician shed tears of
gratitude, and these, trickling down his body and through his many garments, were transmuted
into pearls of the sea.

Shakespeare, in King Henry V., makes Exeter say to the King,--

  "But all my mother came into mine eyes,
  And gave me up to tears,"--

and the tears of the mother-god figures in the folk-lore of many lands. The vervain, or verbena,
was known as the "Tears of Isis," as well as the "Tears of Juno,"--a name given also to an
East Indian grass (Coix lacryma). The lily of the valley, in various parts of Europe, is called
"The Virgin's Tears," "Tears of Our Lady," "Tears of St. Mary." Zmigrodzki notes the following
belief as current in Germany: "If the mother weeps too much, her dead child comes to her at
night, naked and trembling, with its little shirt in its hand, and says: 'Ah, dearest mother,
do not weep! See! I have no rest in the grave; I cannot put on my little shirt, it is all wet
with your tears.'" In Cracow, the common saying is, "God forbid that the tears of the mother
should fall upon the corpse of her child." In Brittany the folk-belief is that "the dead child
has to carry water up a hill in a little bucket, and the tears of the mother increase its weight"
(174. 141).

The Greeks fabled Eos, the dawn-goddess, to have been so disconsolate at the death of Memnon,
her son, that she wept for him every morning, and her tears are the dewdrops found upon the
earth. In the mythology of the Samoans of the Pacific, the Heaven-god, father of all things,
and the Earth-goddess, mother of all things, once held each other in firm embrace, but were
separated in the long ago. Heaven, however, retains his love for earth, and, mourning for her
through the long nights, he drops many tears upon her bosom,--these, men call dewdrops. The
natives of Tahiti have a like explanation for the thick-falling rain-drops that dimple the
surface of the ocean, heralding an approaching storm,--they are tears of the heaven-god. The
saying is:--

 "Thickly falls the small rain on the face of the sea,
  They are not drops of rain, but they are tears of Oro."
  (Tylor, Early Hist. of Mankind, p. 334.)

An Indian tribe of California believe that "the rain is the falling tears of Indians sick in
heaven," and they say that it was "the tears of all mankind, weeping for the loss of a good
young Indian," that caused the deluge, in which all were drowned save a single couple (440. 488).

Oriental legend relates, that, in his utter loneliness after the expulsion from Paradise, "Adam
shed such an abundance of tears that all beasts and birds satisfied their thirst therewith;
but some of them sunk into the earth, and, as they still contained some of the juices of his
food in Paradise, produced the most fragrant trees and spices." We are further told that "the
tears flowed at last in such torrents from Adam's eyes, that those of his right started the
Euphrates, while those of his left set the Tigris in motion" (547. 34).

These are some of the answers of the folk to the question of Shakespeare:--

 "What's the matter,
  That this distempered messenger of wet,
  The many-coloured Iris, rounds thine eye?"

And many more are there that run along the lines of Scott's epigrammatic summation:--

 "A child will weep a bramble's smart,
  A maid to see her sparrow part,
  A stripling for a woman's heart:
  But woe betide a country, when
  She sees the tears of bearded men."

Cradles.

According to Mr. Powers: "The conspicuous painstaking which the Modok squaw expends upon her
baby-basket is an index of her maternal love. And indeed the Modok are strongly attached to
their offspring,--a fact abundantly attested by many sad and mournful spectacles witnessed
in the closing scenes of the war of 1873. On the other hand, a California squaw often carelessly
sets her baby in a deep, conical basket, the same in which she carries her household effects,
leaving him loose and liable to fall out. If she makes a baby-basket, it is totally devoid
of ornament; and one tribe, the Miwok, contemptuously call it 'the dog's nest.' It is among
Indians like these that we hear of infanticide" (519. 257).

The subject of children's cradles, baby-baskets, baby-boards, and the methods of manipulating
and carrying the infant in connection therewith, have been treated of in great detail by Ploss
(325), Pokrovski, and Mason (306), the second of whom has written especially of the cradles
in use among the various peoples of European and Asiatic Eussia, with a general view of those
employed by other races, the last with particular reference to the American aborigines. The
work is illustrated, as is also that of Ploss, with many engravings. Professor Mason thus briefly
sums up the various purposes which the different species of cradle subserve (306. 161-162):--

"(1) It is a mere nest for the helpless infant.

"(2) It is a bed so constructed and manipulated as to enable the child to sleep either in a
vertical or a horizontal position.

"(3) It is a vehicle in which the child is to be transported, chiefly on the mother's back
by means of a strap over the forehead, but frequently dangling like a bundle at the saddle-bow.
This function, of course, always modifies the structure of the cradle, and, indeed, may have
determined its very existence among nomadic tribes. On many--nearly all--specimens may be seen
dangling objects to evoke the senses, foot-rests by means of which the little one may exercise
its legs, besides other conveniences anticipatory of the child's needs.

"(6) The last set of functions to which the frame is devoted are those relating to what we
may call the graduation of infancy, when the papoose crawls out of its chrysalis little by
little, and then abandons it altogether. The child is next seen standing partly on the mother's
cincture and partly hanging to her neck, or resting like a pig in a poke within the folds of
her blanket."

Professor Mason sees in the cradle-board or frame "the child of geography and of meteorology,"
and in its use "a beautiful illustration of Bastian's theory of 'great areas.'" In the frozen
North, for example, "the Eskimo mother carries her infant in the hood of her parka whenever
it is necessary to take it abroad. If she used a board or a frame, the child would perish with
the cold."

The varieties of cradles are almost endless. We have the "hood" (sometimes the "boot") of the
Eskimo; the birch-bark cradle (or hammock) of several of the northern tribes (as in Alaska,
or Cape Breton); the "moss-bag" of the eastern Tinne, the use of which has now extended to
the employes of the Hudson's Bay Company; the "trough-cradle" of the Bilqula; the Chinook cradle,
with its apparatus for head-flattening; the trowel-shaped cradle of the Oregon coast; the wicker-cradle
of the Hupas; the Klamath cradle of wicker and rushes; the Pomo cradle of willow rods and wicker-work,
with rounded portion for the child to sit in; the Mohave cradle, with ladder-frame, having
a bed of shredded bark for the child to lie upon; the Yaqui cradle of canes, with soft bosses
for pillows; the Nez Perce cradle-board with buckskin sides, and the Sahaptian, Ute, and Kootenay
cradles which resemble it; the Moki cradle-frame of coarse wicker, with an awning; the Navajo
cradle, with wooden hood and awning of dressed buckskin; the rude Comanche cradle, made of
a single stiff piece of black-bear skin; the Blackfoot cradle of lattice-work and leather;
the shoe-shaped Sioux cradle, richly adorned with coloured bead-work; the Iroquois cradle (now
somewhat modernized), with "the back carved in flowers and birds, and painted blue, red, green,
and yellow." Among the Araucanians of Chili we meet with a cradle which "seems to be nothing
more than a short ladder, with cross-bars," to which the child is lashed. In the tropical regions
and in South America we find the habit of "carrying the children in the shawl or sash, and
bedding them in the hammock." Often, as in various parts of Africa, the woman herself forms
the cradle, the child clinging astride her neck or hips, with no bands or attachments whatever.
Of woman as carrier much may be read in the entertaining and instructive volume of Professor
Mason (113). The primitive cradle, bed, and carrier, was the mother.

Father and Child.

With many of the more primitive races, the idea so tritely expressed in our familiar saying,
"He is a chip of the old block,"--patris est filius, "he is the son of his father,"--and so
beautifully wrought out by Shakespeare,--

 "Behold, my lords,
  Although the print be little, the whole matter
  And copy of the father: eye, nose, lip,
  The trick of his frown, his forehead; nay, the valley,
  The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek; his smiles,
  The very mould and frame of hand, nail, finger,"

has a strong hold, making itself felt in a thousand ways and fashions. The many rites and ceremonies,
ablutions, fastings, abstentions from certain foods and drinks, which the husband has to undergo
and submit to among certain more or less uncivilized peoples, shortly before, or after, or
upon, the occasion of the birth of a child, or while his wife is pregnant, arise, in part at
least, from a firm belief in the influence of parent upon child and the intimate sympathy between
them even while the latter is yet unborn. Of the Indians of British Guiana, Mr. im Thurn says,
they believe that if the father should eat the flesh of the capybara, the child would have
large protruding teeth like that animal, while if he should eat that of the labba, the child's
skin would be spotted. "Apparently there is also some idea that for the father to eat strong
food, to wash, to smoke, to handle weapons, would have the same result as if the new-born baby
ate such food, washed, smoked, or played with edged tools." The connection between the father
and the child, the author thinks, is thought by these Indians to be much closer than that existing
between the mother and her offspring (477. 218). Much has been written about, and many explanations
suggested for, this ancient and widespread custom. The investigations of recent travellers
seem to have cast some light upon this difficult problem in ethnology.

Dr. Karl von den Steinen (536. 331-337) tells us that the native tribes of Central Brazil not
only believe that the child is "the son of the father," but that it is the father. To quote
his own significant words: "The father is the patient in so far as he feels himself one with
the new-born child. It is not very difficult to see how he arrives at this conclusion. Of the
human egg-cell and the Graafian follicle the aborigine is not likely to know anything, nor
can he know that the mother lodges the thing corresponding to the eggs of birds. For him the
man is the bearer of the eggs, which, to speak plainly and clearly, lays in the mother, and
which she hatches during the period of pregnancy. In the linguistic material at hand we see
how this very natural attempt to explain generation finds expression in the words for 'father',
'testicle,' and 'egg.' In Guarani tub means 'father, spawn, eggs,' tupia 'eggs,' and even tup-i,
the name of the people (the -i is diminutive) really signifies 'little father,' or 'eggs,'
or 'children,' as you please; the 'father' is 'egg,' and the 'child' is 'the little father.'
Even the language declares that the 'child' is nothing else than the 'father.' Among the Tupi
the father was also accustomed to take a new name after the birth of each new son; to explain
this, it is in no way necessary to assume that the 'soul' of the father proceeds each time
into the son. In Karaibi we find exactly the same idea; imu is 'egg,' or 'testicles,' or 'child.'"

Among other cognate tribes we find the same thoughts:--

In the Ipurucoto language imu signifies "egg."

In the Bakairi language imu signifies "testicles."

In the Tamanako language imu signifies "father."

In the Makusi language imu signifies "semen."

In several dialects imu-ru signifies "child."

Dr. von den Steinen further observes: "Among the Bakairi 'child' and 'small' are both imeri,
'the child of the chief,' pima imeri; we can translate as we please, either 'the child of the
chief,' or 'the little chief,' and in the case of the latter form, which we can use more in
jest of the son, we are not aware that to the Indian the child is really nothing more than
the little chief, the miniature of the big one. Strange and hardly intelligible to us is this
idea when it is a girl that is in question. For the girl, too, is 'the little father,' and
not 'the little mother'; it is only the father who has made her. In Bakairi there are no special
words for 'son' and 'daughter,' but a sex-suffix is added to the word for child when a distinction
is necessary; pima imeri may signify either the son or the daughter of the chief. The only
daughter of the chief is the inheritrix of possession and rank, both of which pass over with
her own possession to the husband." The whole question of the "Couvade" and like practices
finds its solution in these words of the author: "The behaviour of the mother, according as
she is regarded as more or less suffering, may differ much with the various tribes, while the
conduct of the father is practically the same with all She goes about her business, if she
feels strong enough, suckles her child, etc. Between the father and the child there is no mysterious
correlation; the child is a multiplication of him; the father is duplicated, and in order that
no harm may come to the helpless, irrational creature, a miniature of himself, he must demean
himself as a child" (536. 338).

The close relationship between father and child appears also in folk-medicine, where children
(or often adults) are preserved from, or cured of, certain ailments and diseases by the application
of blood drawn from the father.

In Bavaria a popular remedy against cramps consisted in "the father pricking himself in the
finger and giving the child in its mouth three drops of blood out of the wound," and at Rackow,
in Neu Stettin, to cure epilepsy in little children, "the father gives the child three drops
of blood out of the first joint of his ring-finger" (361. 19). In Annam, when a physician cures
a small-pox patient, it is thought that the pocks pass over to his children, and among the
Dieyerie of South Australia, when a child has met with an accident, "all the relatives are
beaten with sticks or boomerangs on the head till the blood flows over their faces. This is
believed to lessen the pain of the child" (397. 60, 205).

Among some savage and uncivilized peoples, the father is associated closely with the child
from the earliest days of its existence. With the Mincopies of the Andaman Islands, it is the
father who, "from the day of its birth onwards presses the skull and body of the child to give
them the proper form," and among the Macusi Indians of Guiana, the father "in early youth,
pierces the ear-lobe, the lower lip, and the septum of the nose," while with the Pampas Indians
of the Argentine, in the third year of the child's life, the child's ears are pierced by the
father in the following fashion: "A horse has its feet tied together, is thrown to the ground,
and held fast. The child is then brought out and placed on the horse, while the father bores
its ears with a needle" (326.1.296,301).

With some primitive peoples the father evinces great affection for his child. Concerning the
natives of Australia whom he visited, Lumholtz observes: "The father may also be good to the
child, and he frequently carries it, takes it in his lap, pats it, searches its hair, plays
with it, and makes little boomerangs which he teaches it to throw. He, however, prefers boys
to girls, and does not pay much attention to the latter" (495.193). Speaking of another region
of the world where infanticide prevailed,--the Solomon Islands,--Mr. Guppy cites not a few
instances of parental regard and affection. On one occasion "the chief's son, a little shapeless
mass of flesh, a few months old, was handed about from man to man with as much care as if he
had been composed of something brittle." Of chief Gorai and his wife, whose child was blind,
the author says: "I was much struck with the tenderness displayed in the manner of both the
parents towards their little son, who, seated in his mother's lap, placed his hand in that
of his father, when he was directed to raise his eyes towards the light for my inspection"
(466. 47).

Of the Patwin Indians of California, who are said to rank among the lowest of the race, Mr.
Powers tells us: "Parents are very easygoing with their children, and never systematically
punish them, though they sometimes strike them in momentary anger. On the Sacramento they teach
them how to swim when a few weeks old by holding them on their hands in the water. I have seen
a father coddle and teeter his baby in an attack of crossness for an hour with the greatest
patience, then carry him down to the river, laughing good-naturedly, gently dip the little
brown smooth-skinned nugget in the waves clear under, and then lay him on the moist, warm sand.
The treatment was no less effectual than harmless, for it stopped the perverse, persistent
squalling at once" (519. 222). Such demonstrations of tenderness have been supposed to be rare
among the Indians, but the same authority says again: "Many is the Indian I have seen tending
the baby with far more patience and good-nature than a civilized father would display" (519.
23). Concerning the Eskimo, Eeclus observes: "All over Esquimaux Land fathers and mothers vie
with one another in spoiling their offspring, never strike, and rarely rebuke them" (523. 37).

Among the Indians of British Guiana, according to Mr. im Thurn, both mother and father are
"very affectionate towards the young child." The mother "almost always, even when working,
carries it against her hip, slung in a small hammock from her neck or shoulder," while the
father, "when he returns from hunting, brings it strange seeds to play with, and makes it necklaces
and other ornaments." The young children themselves "seem fully to reciprocate the affection
of their parents; but as they grow older, the affection on both sides seems to cool, though,
in reality, it perhaps only becomes less demonstrative" (477. 219).

Everywhere we find evidence of parental affection and love for children, shining sometimes
from the depths of savagery and filling with sunshine at least a few hours of days that seem
so sombre and full of gloom when viewed afar off.

Mr. Scudder has treated at considerable length the subject of "Childhood in Literature and
Art" (350), dealing with it as found in Greek, Roman, Hebrew, Early Christian, English, French,
German, American, literature, in mediaval art, and in Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tales.
Of Greek the author observes: "There is scarcely a child's voice to be heard in the whole range
of Greek poetic art. The conception is universally of the child, not as acting, far less as
speaking, but as a passive member of the social order. It is not its individual so much as
its related life which is contemplated." The silent presence of children in the roles of the
Greek drama is very impressive (350. 21). At Rome, though childhood is more of a "vital force"
than in Greece, yet "it is not contemplated as a fine revelation of nature." Sometimes, in
its brutal aspects, "children are reckoned as scarcely more than cubs," yet with refinement
they "come to represent the more spiritual side of the family life." The folktale of Romulus
and Remus and Catullus' picture of the young Torquatus represent these two poles (350. 32).
The scant appearances of children in the Old Testament, the constant prominence given to the
male succession, are followed later on by the promise which buds and flowers in the world-child
Jesus, and the childhood which is the new-birth, the golden age of which Jewish seers and prophets
had dreamt. In early Christianity, it would appear that, with the exception of the representation
in art of the child, the infant Christ, "childhood as an image had largely faded out of art
and literature" (350. 80). The Renaissance "turned its face toward childhood, and looked into
that image for the profoundest realization of its hopes and dreams" (350. 102), and since then
Christianity has followed that path. And the folk were walking in these various ages and among
these different peoples humbly along the same road, which their geniuses travelled. Of the
great modern writers and poets, the author notes especially Wordsworth, through whom the child
was really born in our literature, the linker together of the child and the race; Rousseau,
who told of childhood as "refuge from present evil, a mournful reminiscence of a lost Paradise,
who (like St. Pierre) preached a return to nature, and left his own offspring to the tender
mercy of a foundling asylum"; Luther, the great religious reformer, who was ever "a father
among his children"; Goethe, who represents German intellectualism, yet a great child-artist;
Froebel, the patron saint of the kindergarten; Hans Andersen, the "inventor" of fairy-tales,
and the transformer of folk-stories, that rival the genuine, untouched, inedited article; Hawthorne,
the child-artist of America.

CHAPTER VIII.

CHILDHOOD THE GOLDEN AGE.

  Heaven lies about us in our infancy.--Wordsworth.

  Die Kindheit ist ein Augenblick Gottes.--Achim v. Arnim.

  Wahre dir den Kindersinn,
  Kindheit bluht in Liebe bin,
  Kinderzeit ist heil'ge Zeit,
  Heidenkindheit--Christenheit.
  --B. Goltz.

  Happy those early days, when I Shined in my angel infancy.
  --Henry Vaughan.

  Childhood shall be all divine.--B. W. Proctor.

  But Heaven is kind, and therefore all possess,
  Once in their life, fair Eden's simpleness.--H. Coleridge.

  But to the couch where childhood lies,
    A more delicious trance is given,
  Lit up by rays from seraph eyes,
    And glimpses of remembered heaven.--W. M. Praed.

    O for boyhood's time of June,
  Crowding years in one brief moon!--Whittier.

Golden Age.

The English word world, as the Anglo-Saxon weorold, Icelandic verold, and Old High German weralt
indicate, signified originally "age of man," or "course of man's life," and in the mind of
the folk the life of the world and the life of man have run about the same course. By common
consent the golden age of both was at the beginning, ab ovo. With Wordsworth, unlettered thousands
have thought:--

  "Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive,
  But to be young was very heaven!"

Die Kindheit ist ein Augenblick Gottes, "childhood is a moment of God," said Achim Ton Arnim,
and Hartley Coleridge expresses the same idea in other words:--

  "But Heaven is kind, and therefore all possess,
  Once in their life, fair Eden's simpleness."

This belief in the golden age of childhood,--die heilige Kinderzeit, the heaven of infancy,--is
ancient and modern, world-wide, shared in alike by primitive savage and nineteenth-century
philosopher. The peasant of Brittany thinks that children preserve their primal purity up to
the seventh year of their age, and, if they die before then, go straight to heaven (174. 141),
and the great Chinese philosopher, linking together, as others have done since his time, the
genius and the child, declared that a man is great only as he preserves the pure ideas of his
childhood, while Coleridge, in like fashion tells us: "Genius is the power of carrying the
feelings of childhood into the power of manhood."

Everywhere we hear the same refrain:--

  "Aus der Jugendzeit, aus der Jugendzeit,
  Klingt ein Lied immerdar;
  O wie liegt so weit, o wie liegt so weit,
  Was mein einst war!"

The Paradise that man lost, the Eden from which he has been driven, is not the God-planted
Garden by the banks of Euphrates, but the "happy days of angel infancy," and "boyhood's time
of June," the childhood out of which in the fierce struggle--for existence the race has rudely
grown, and back to which, for its true salvation, it must learn to make its way again.

When we speak of "the halcyon days of childhood," we recall an ancient myth, telling how, in
an age when even more than now "all Nature loved a lover," even the gods watched over the loves
of Ceyx and Halcyone. Ever since the kingfisher has been regarded as the emblem, of lasting
fidelity in love. As Ebers aptly puts it: "Is there anywhere a sweeter legend than that of
the Halcyons, the ice-birds who love each other so tenderly that, when the male becomes enfeebled
by age, his mate carries him on her outspread wings whithersoever he wills; and the gods desiring
to reward such faithful love cause the sun to shine more kindly, and still the winds and waves
on the 'Halcyon Days' during which these birds are building their nests and brooding over their
young" (390. II. 269).

Of a special paradise for infants, something has been said elsewhere. Of Srahmanadzi, the other
world, the natives of Ashanti say: "There an old man becomes young, a young man a boy, and
a boy an infant. They grow and become old. But age does not carry with it any diminution of
strength or wasting of body. When they reach the prime of life, they remain so, and never change
more" (438. 157).

The Kalmucks believe that some time in the future "each child will speak immediately after
its birth, and the next day be capable of undertaking its own management" (518. I. 427). But
that blissful day is far off, and the infant human still needs the overshadowing of the gods
to usher him into the real world of life.

Guardian Angels and Deities. In the hagiology of the Christian churches, and in the folk-lore
of modern Europe, the idea contained in our familiar expression "guardian angel" has a firm
hold; by celestial watchers and protectors the steps of the infant are upheld, and his mind
guided, until he reaches maturity, and even then the guardian spirit often lingers to guide
the favoured being through all the years of his life (191. 8). The natives of Ashanti believe
that special spirits watch over girls until they are married, and in China there is a special
mother-goddess who guards and protects childhood.

Walter Savage Landor has said:--

  "Around the child bend all the three
  Sweet Graces,--Faith, Hope, Charity,"

and the "three Fates" of classic antiquity, the three Norns of Scandinavian mythology, the
three Sudieicky or fate-goddesses of the Czechs of Bohemia, the three fate- and birth-goddesses
of the other Slavonic peoples, the three [Greek: Moirai] of Modern Greece, the three Phatite
of Albania, the three white ladies, three virgins, three Mary's, etc., of German legend of
to-day, have woven about them a wealth of quaint and curious lore (326. I. 42-47).

The survival of the old heathen belief alongside the Christian is often seen, as, e.g., at
Palermo, in Sicily, where "the mother, when she lifts the child out of the cradle, says aloud:
'Nuome di Dio, In God's name,' but quickly adds sotto voce: 'Cu licenzi, signuri mui, By your
leave, Ladies.'" The reference is to the "three strange ladies," representing the three Fates,
who preside over the destiny of human beings.

Ploss has discussed at length the goddesses of child-birth and infancy, and exhibited their
relations to the growing, fertilizing, regenerative powers of nature, especially the earth,
sun, moon, etc.; the Hindu Bhavani (moon-goddess); the Persian Anahita; the Assyrian Belit,
the spouse of Bel; the Phoenician Astarte; the Egyptian Isis; the Etruscan Mater matuta; the
Greek Hera Eileithyia, Artemis,; the Roman Diana, Lucina, Juno; the Phrygian Cybele; the Germanic
Freia, Holla, Gude, Harke; the Slavonic Siwa, Libussa, Zlata Baba ("the golden woman"); the
ancient Mexican Itzcuinam, Yohmaltcitl, Tezistecatl; the Chibchan rainbow-goddess Cuchavira;
the Japanese Kojasi Kwanon, and hundreds more.

The number of gods and goddesses presiding over motherhood and childhood is legion; in every
land divine beings hover about the infant human to protect it and assure the perpetuity of
the race. In ancient Rome, besides the divinities who were connected with generation, the embryo,
etc., we find, among others, the following tutelary deities of childhood:--

Parca or Partula, the goddess of child-birth; Diespiter, the god who brings the infant to the
light of day; Opis, the divinity who takes the infant from within the bosom of mother-earth;
Vaticanus, the god who opens the child's mouth in crying; Cunina, the protectress of the cradle
and its contents; Rumina, the goddess of the teat or breast; Ossipaga, the goddess who hardens
and solidifies the bones of little children; Carna, the goddess who strengthens the flesh of
little children; Diva potina, the goddess of the drink of children; Diva edusa, the goddess
of the food of children; Cuba, the goddess of the sleep of the child; Levana, the goddess who
lifts the child from the earth; Statanus, the god, and Dea Statina, the goddess, of the child's
standing; Fabulinus, the god of the child's speech; Abeona and Adiona, the protectresses of
the child in its goings out and its comings in; Deus catus pater, the father-god who "sharpens"
the wits of children; Dea mens, the goddess of the child's mind; Minerva, the goddess who is
the giver of memory to the child; Numeria, the goddess who teaches the child to count; Voleta,
the goddess, and Volumnus the god, of will or wishing; Venilia, the goddess of hope, of "things
to come"; Deus conus, the god of counsel, the counsel-giver; Peragenor or Agenona, the deity
of the child's action; Camona, the goddess who teaches the child to sing, etc. (398.188).

In line with the poet's thought, though of a ruder mould, is the belief of the Iroquois Indians
recorded by Mrs. Smith: "When a living nursing child is taken out at night, the mother takes
a pinch of white ashes and rubs it on the face of the child so that the spirits will not trouble,
because they say that a child still continues to hold intercourse with the spirit-world whence
it so recently came" (534. 69).

Birth-Myths.

President Hall has treated of "The Contents of Children's Minds on Entering School" (252),
but we yet lack a like elaborate and suggestive study of "The Contents of Parents' Minds on
Entering the Nursery." We owe to the excellent investigation carried on by Principal Russell
and his colleagues at the State Normal School in Worcester, Mass., "Some Records of the Thoughts
and Reasonings of Children" (194), and President Hall has written about "Children's Lies" (252a),
but we are still without a correspondingly accurate and extensive compilation of "The Thoughts
and Reasonings of Parents," and a plain, unbiassed register of the "white lies" and equivoques,
the fictions and epigrammatic myths, with which parents are wont to answer, or attempt to answer,
the manifold questions of their tender offspring. From time immemorial the communication between
parent (and nurse) and child, between the old of both sexes and little children, far from being
yea and nay, has been cast in the mould of the advice given in the German quatrain:--

 "Ja haltet die Aequivocabula nur fest,
  Sind sie doch das einzige Mittel,
  Dem Kind die Wahrheit zu bergen und doch
  Zu brauchen den richtigen Titel."

  ["Hold fast to the words that we equivoques call;
  For they are indeed the only safe way
  To keep from the children the truth away,
  Yet use the right name after all."]

Around the birth of man centres a great cycle of fiction and myth. The folk-lore respecting
the provenience of children may be divided into two categories. The first is represented by
our "the doctor brought it," "God sent it," and the "van Moor" of the peasantry of North Friesland,
which may signify either "from the moor," or "from mother." The second consists of renascent
myths of bygone ages, distorted, sometimes, it is true, and recast. As men, in the dim, prehistoric
past, ascribed to their first progenitors a celestial, a terrestrial, a subterranean, a subaqueous
origin, a coming into being from animals, birds, insects, trees, plants, rocks, stones, etc.,--for
all were then akin,--so, after long centuries have rolled by, father, mother, nurse, older
brother or sister, speaking of the little one in whom they see their stock renewed, or their
kinship widened, resurrect and regild the old fables and rejuvenate and reanimate the lore
that lay sunk beneath the threshold of racial consciousness. Once more "the child is father
of the man"; his course begins from that same spring whence the first races of men had their
remotest origins. George Macdonald, in the first lines of his poem on "Baby" (337. 182):--

  "Where did you come from, baby dear?
  Out of the everywhere into here,"

has expressed a truth of folk-lore, for there is scarcely a place in the "everywhere" whence
the children have not been fabled to come. Children are said to come from heaven (Germany,
England, America, etc.); from the sea (Denmark); from lakes, ponds, rivers (Germany, Austria,
Japan); from moors and sand-hills (northeastern Germany); from gardens (China); from under
the cabbage-leaves (Brittany, Alsace), or the parsley-bed (England); from sacred or hollow
trees, such as the ash, linden, beech, oak, etc. (Germany, Austria); from inside or from underneath
rocks and stones (northeastern Germany, Switzerland, Bohemia, etc.). It is worthy of note how
the topography of the country, its physiographic character, affects these beliefs, which change
with hill and plain, with moor and meadow, seashore and inland district. The details of these
birth-myths may be read in Ploss (326. I. 2), Schell (343), Sundermann (366). Specially interesting
are the Kindersee ("child-lake"), Kinderbaum ("child-tree"), and Kinderbrunnen ("child-fountain")
of the Teutonic lands,--offering analogies with the "Tree of Life" and the "Fountain of Eternal
Youth" of other ages and peoples; the Titistein, or "little children's stone," and the Kindertruog
("child's trough") of Switzerland, and the "stork-stones" of North Germany.

Dr. Haas, in his interesting little volume of folk-lore from the island of Rugen, in the Baltic,
records some curious tales about the birth of children. The following practice of the children
in that portion of Germany is significant: "Little white and black smooth stones, found on
the shore, are called 'stork-stones.' These the children are wont to throw backwards over their
heads, asking, at the same time, the stork to bring them a little brother or sister" (466 a.
144). This recalls vividly the old Greek deluge-myth, in which we are told, that, after the
Flood, Deucalion was ordered to cast behind him the "bones of his mother." This he interpreted
to mean the "stones," which seemed, as it were, the "bones" of "mother-earth." So he and his
wife Pyrrha picked up some stones from the ground and cast them over their shoulders, whereupon
those thrown by Deucalion became men, those thrown by Pyrrha, women. Here belongs, also, perhaps,
the Wallachian custom, mentioned by Mr. Sessions (who thinks it was "probably to keep evil
spirits away"), in accordance with which "when a child is born every one present throws a stone
behind him."

On the island of Rugen erratic blocks on the seashore are called Adeborsteine, "stork-stones,"
and on such a rock or boulder near Wrek in Wittow, Dr. Haas says "the stork is said to dry
the little children, after he has fetched them out of the sea, before he brings them to the
mothers. The latter point out these blocks to their little sons and daughters, telling them
how once they were laid upon them by the stork to get dry." The great blocks of granite that
lie scattered on the coast of Jasmund are termed Schwansteine, "swan-stones," and, according
to nursery-legend, the children to be born are shut up in them. When a sister or brother asks:
"Where did the little swan-child"--for so babies are called--"come from?" the mother replies:
"From the swan-stone. It was opened with a key, and a little swan-child taken out." The term
"swan-child" is general in this region, and Dr. Haas is inclined to think that the swan-myth
is older than the stork-myth (466 a. 143, 144).

Curious indeed is the belief of the Hidatsa Indians, as reported by Dr. Matthews, in the "Makadistati,
or house of infants." This is described as "a cavern near Knife River, which, they supposed,
extended far into the earth, but whose entrance was only a span wide. It was resorted to by
the childless husband or the barren wife. There are those among them who imagine that in some
way or other their children come from the Makadistati; and marks of contusion on an infant,
arising from tight swaddling or other causes, are gravely attributed to kicks received from
his former comrades when he was ejected from his subterranean home" (433. 516).

In Hesse, Germany, there is a children's song (326. I. 9):--

  Bimbam, Glockchen,
  Da unten steht ein Stockchen,
  Da oben steht ein golden Haus,
  Da gucken viele schone Kinder raus.

The current belief in that part of Europe is that "unborn children live in a very beautiful
dwelling, for so long as children are no year old and have not yet looked into a mirror, everything
that comes before their eyes appears to be gold." Here folk-thought makes the beginnings of
human life a real golden age. They are Midases of the eye, not of the touch.

Children's Questions and Parents' Answers.

Another interesting class of "parents' lies" consists in the replies to, or comments upon,
the questionings and remarks of children about the ordinary affairs of life. The following
examples, selected from Dirksen's studies of East-Frisian Proverbs, will serve to indicate
the general nature and extent of these.

1. When a little child says, "I am hungry," the mother sometimes answers, "Eat some salt, and
then you will be thirsty, too."

2. When a child, seeing its mother drink tea or coffee, says, "I'm thirsty," the answer may
be, "If you're thirsty, go to Jack ter Host; there's a cow in the stall, go sit under it and
drink." Some of the variants of this locution are expressed in very coarse language (431. I. 22).

3. If a child asks, when it sees that its parent is going out, "Am I not going, too?" the answer
is, "You are going along, where nobody has gone, to Poodle's wedding," or "You are going along
on Stay-here's cart." A third locution is, "You are going along to the Kukendell fair" (Kukendell
being a part of Meiderich, where a fair has never been held). In Oldenburg the answer is: "You
shall go along on Jack-stay-at-home's (Janblievtohus) cart." Sometimes the child is quieted
by being told, "I'll bring you back a little silver nothing (enn silwer Nickske)" (431. I. 33).

4. If, when he is given a slice of bread, he asks for a thinner one, the mother may remark,
"Thick pieces make fat bodies" (431. I. 35).

5. When some one says in the hearing of the father or mother of a child that it ought not to
have a certain apple, a certain article of clothing, or the like, the answer is, "That is no
illegitimate child." The locution is based upon the fact that illegitimate children do not
enjoy the same rights and privileges as those born in wedlock (431. I. 42).

6. Of children's toys and playthings it is sometimes said, when they are very fragile, "They
will last from twelve o'clock till midday" (431.1.43).

7. When any one praises her child in the presence of the mother, the latter says, "It's a good
child when asleep" (431. I. 51).

8. In the winter-time, when the child asks its mother for an apple, the latter may reply, "the
apples are piping in the tree," meaning that there are no longer any apples on the tree, but
the sparrows are sitting there, crying and lamenting. In Meiderich the locution is "Apples
have golden stems," i.e. they are rare and dear in winter-time (431. I. 75).

9. When the child says, "I can't sit down," the mother may remark, "Come and sit on my thumb;
nobody has ever fallen off it" (i.e. because no one has ever tried to sit on it) (431. I. 92).

10. When a lazy child, about to be sent out upon an errand, protests that it does not know
where the person to whom the message is to be sent lives, and consequently cannot do the errand,
the mother remarks threateningly, "I'll show where Abraham ground the mustard," i.e. "I give
you a good thrashing, till the tears come into your eyes (as when grinding mustard)" (431. I. 105).

11. When a child complains that a sister or brother has done something to hurt him, the mother's
answer is, "Look out! He shall have water in the cabbage, and go barefoot to bed" (431. I. 106).

12. Sometimes their parents or elders turn to children and ask them "if they would like to
be shown the Bremen geese." If the child says yes, he is seized by the ears and head with both
hands and lifted off the ground. In some parts of Germany this is called "showing Rome," and
there are variants of the practice in other lands (431. II. 14).

13. When a child complains of a sore in its eye, or on its neck, the answer is: "That will
get well before you are a great-grandmother" (431. II. 50).

14. When one child asks for one thing and another for something else, the mother exclaims petulantly,
"One calls out 'lime,' the other 'stones.'" The reference is to the confusion of tongues at
Babel, which is assumed to have been of such a nature that one man would call out "lime," and
another "stones" (431. II. 53).

15. When a child asks for half a slice of bread instead of a whole one, the mother may say,
"Who doesn't like a whole, doesn't like a half either" (431. II. 43).

16. When a child says, "That is my place, I sat there," the reply is, "You have no place; your
place is in the churchyard" (i.e. a grave) (431. II. 76).

When the child says "I will," the mother says threateningly, "Your 'will' is in your mother's
pocket." It is in her pocket that she carries the rope for whipping the child. Another locution
is, "Your will is in the corner" (i.e. the corner of the room in which stands the broomstick)
(431. II. 81).

These specimens of the interchange of courtesies between the child and its parent or nurse
might be paralleled from our own language; indeed, many of the correspondences will suggest
themselves at once. The deceits practised in the Golden Age of childhood resemble those practised
by the gods in the Golden Age of the world, when divine beings walked the earth and had intercourse
with the sons and daughters of men.

"Painted Devils."

Even as the serpent marred the Eden of which the sacred legends of the Semites tell, so in
the folk-thought does some evil sprite or phantom ever and anon intrude itself in the Paradise
of childhood and seek its ruin.

Shakespeare has well said:--

 "Tis the eye of childhood
  That fears a painted devil,"

and the chronicle of the "painted devils," bogies, scarecrows, et id genus omne, is a long
one, whose many chapters may be read in Ploss, Hartland, Henderson, Gregor, etc. Some of the
"devils" are mild and almost gentlemen, like their lord and master at times; others are fierce,
cruel, and bloodthirsty; their number is almost infinite, and they have the forms of women
as well as of men.

Over a large portion of western Europe is found the nursery story of the "Sand-Man," who causes
children to become drowsy and sleepy; "the sand-man is coming, the sand-man has put dust in
your eyes," are some of the sayings in use. By and by the child gets "so fast asleep that one
eye does not see the other," as the Frisian proverb puts it. When, on a cold winter day, her
little boy would go out without his warm mittens on, the East Frisian mother says, warningly:
De Fingerbiter is buten, "the Finger-biter is outside."

Among the formidable evil spirits who war against or torment the child and its mother are the
Hebrew Lilith, the long-haired night-flier; the Greek Strigalai, old and ugly owl-women; the
Roman Caprimulgus, the nightly goat-milker and child-killer, and the wood-god Silvanus; the
Coptic Berselia; the Hungarian "water-man," or "water-woman," who changes children for criples
or demons; the Moravian Vestice, or "wild woman," able to take the form of any animal, who
steals away children at the breast, and substitutes changelings for them; the Bohemian Polednice,
or "noon-lady," who roams around only at noon, and substitutes changelings for real children;
the Lithuanian and Old Prussian Laume, a child-stealer, whose breast is the thunderbolt, and
whose girdle is the rainbow; the Servian Wjeschtitza, or witches, who take on the form of an
insect, and eat up children at night; the Russian "midnight spirit," who robs children of rest
and sleep; the Wendish "Old mountain-woman"; the German (Brunswick) "corn-woman," who makes
off with little children looking for flowers in the fields; the Roggenmuhme ( "rye-aunt"),
the Tremsemutter, who walks about in the cornfields; the Katzenveit, a wood spirit, and a score
of bogies called Popel, Popelmann, Popanz, Butz, etc.; the Scotch "Boo Man," "Bogie Man," "Jenny
wi' the Airn Teeth," "Jenny wi' the lang Pock "; the English and American bogies, goblins,
ogres, ogresses, witches, and the like; besides, common to all peoples, a host of werwolves
and vampires, giants and dwarfs, witches, ogres, ogresses, fairies, evil spirits of air, water,
land, inimical to childhood and destructive of its peace and enjoyment. The names, lineage,
and exploits of these may be read in Ploss, Grimm, Hartland, etc.

In the time of the Crusades, Richard Cour de Lion, the hero-king of England, became so renowned
among the Saracens that (Gibbon informs us) his name was used by mothers and nurses to quiet
their infants, and other historical characters before and after him served to like purpose.
To the children of Rome in her later days, Attila, the great Hun, was such a bogy, as was Narses,
the Byzantian general (d. 568 A.D.), to the Assyrian children. Bogies also were Matthias Corvinus
(d. 1490 A.D.), the Hungarian king and general, to the Turks; Tamerlane (Timur), the great
Mongolian conqueror (d. 1405 A.D.), to the Persians; and Bonaparte, at the close of the eighteenth
and the beginning of the nineteenth century, in various parts of the continent of Europe. These,
and other historical characters have, in part, taken the place of the giants and bogies of
old, some of whom, however, linger, even yet, in the highest civilizations, together with fabulous
animals (reminiscent of stern reality in primitive times), with which, less seriously than
in the lands of the eastern world, childhood is threatened and cowed into submission.

The Ponka Indian mothers tell their children that if they do not behave themselves the Indacinga
(a hairy monster shaped like a human being, that hoots like an owl) will get them; the Omaha
bogy is Icibaji; a Dakota child-stealer and bogy is Anungite or "Two Faces" (433. 386, 473).
With the Kootenay Indians, of south-eastern British Columbia, the owl is the bogy with which
children are frightened into good behaviour, the common saying of mothers, when their children
are troublesome, being, "If you are not quiet, I'll give you to the owl" (203).

Among the Nipissing Algonkian Indians, koko is a child-word for any terrible being; the mothers
say to their children, "beware of the koko." Champlain and Lescarbot, the early chroniclers
of Canada, mention a terrible creature (concerning which tales were told to frighten children)
called gougou, supposed to dwell on an island in the Baie des Chaleurs (200. 239). Among the
bogies of the Mayas of Yucatan, Dr. Brinton mentions: the balams (giant beings of the night),
who carry off children; the culcalkin, or "neckless priest"; besides giants and witches galore
(411. 174, 177).

Among the Gualala Indians of California, we find the "devil-dance," which Powers compares to
the haberfeldtreiben of the Bavarian peasants,--an institution got up for the purpose of frightening
the women and children, and keeping them in order. While the ordinary dances are going on,
there suddenly stalks forth "an ugly apparition in the shape of a man, wearing a feather mantle
on his back, reaching from the arm-pits down to the mid-thighs, zebra-painted on his breast
and legs with black stripes, bear-skin shako on his head, and his arms stretched out at full
length along a staff passing behind his neck. Accoutred in this harlequin rig, he dashes at
the squaws, capering, dancing, whooping; and they and the children flee for life, keeping several
hundred yards between him and themselves." It is believed that, if they were even to touch
his stick, their children would die (519. 194).

Among the Patwin, Nishinam, and Pomo Indians, somewhat similar practices are in vogue (519.
157, 160, 225). From the golden age of childhood, with its divinities and its demons, we may
now pass to the consideration of more special topics concerning the young of the races of men.

CHAPTER IX.

CHILDREN'S FOOD.

  Der Mensch ist, was er isst.--Feuerbach.

  Man did eat angels' food.--Psalm ixxviii. 25.

Honey.

Der Mensch ist, was er isst,--"man is what he eats,"--says Feuerbach, and there were food-philosophies
long before his time. Among primitive peoples, the food of the child often smacks of the Golden
Age. Tennyson, in Eleanore, sings:--

 "Or, the yellow-banded bees,
  Through half-open lattices
  Coming in the scented breeze,
  Fed thee, a child lying alone,
  With white honey, in fairy gardens cull'd--
  A glorious child dreaming alone,
  In silk-soft folds, upon yielding down,
  With the hum of swarming bees
  Into dreamful slumber lull'd."

This recalls the story of Cretan Zeus, fed, when an infant, by the nymphs in a cave on Mount
Ida with the milk of the goat Amalthaa and honey brought by the bees of the mountain.

In the sacred books of the ancient Hindus we read: "The father puts his mouth to the right
ear of the new-born babe, and murmurs three times, 'Speech! Speech!' Then he gives it a name.
Then he mixes clotted milk, honey, and butter, and feeds the babe with it out of pure gold"
(460.129). Among the ancient Frisians and some other Germanic tribes, the father had the right
to put to death or expose his child so long as it had not taken food; but "so soon as the infant
had drunk milk and eaten honey he could not be put to death by his parents" (286. 69). The
custom of giving the new-born child honey to taste is referred to in German counting-out rhymes,
and the ancient Germans used to rub honey in the mouth of the new-born child. The heathen Czechs
used to drop honey upon the child's lips, and in the Eastern Church it was formerly the custom
to give the baptized child milk and honey to taste (392. II. 35). When the Jewish child, in
the Middle Ages, first went to school, one of the ceremonial observances was to have him lick
a slate which had been smeared with honey, and upon which the alphabet, two Bible verses, and
the words "The Tora shall be my calling" were written; this custom is interestingly explanative
of the passage in Ezekiel (iii. 3) where we read "Then I did eat it [the roll of a book given
the prophet by God]; and it was in my mouth as honey for sweetness." There were also given
to the child sweet cakes upon which Bible verses were written. Among the Jews of Galicia, before
a babe is placed in the cradle for the first time, it is customary to strew into the latter
little pieces of honey-comb. Among the Wotjaks we find the curious belief that those who, in
eating honey, do not smear their mouth and hands with it, will die. With children of an older
growth,--the second Golden Age,--honey and cakes again appear. Magyar maidens at the new moon
steal honey and cakes, cook them, and mix a part in the food of the youth of their desires;
among the White Russians, the bridal couple are fed honey with a spoon. Even with us "the first
sweet month of matrimony," after the "bless you, my children" has been spoken by parents, church,
and state, is called the "honey-moon," for our Teutonic ancestors were in the habit of drinking
honey-wine or mead for the space of thirty days after marriage (392. IV. 118,211). In wedding-feasts
the honey appears again, and, as Westermarck observes, the meal partaken of by the bride and
bridegroom practically constitutes the marriage-ceremony among the Navajos, Santal, Malays,
Hovas, and other primitive peoples (166. 419).

In Iceland, in ancient times, "the food of sucklings was sweetened by honey," and "in the mouths
of weakly children a slice of meat was placed at which they sucked." Among other interesting
items from Scandinavia, Ploss (326. II. 182) gives the following: "In Iceland, if the child
has been suckled eight (at most, fourteen) days, it is henceforth placed upon the ground; near
it is put a vessel with luke-warm whey, in which a reed or a quill is stuck, and a little bread
placed before it. If the child should wake and show signs of hunger, he is turned towards the
vessel, and the reed is placed in his mouth. When the child is nine months old, it must eat
of the same food as its parents do."

In Shropshire, England, the first food given a child is a spoonful of sugar and butter, and,
in the Highlands of Scotland, "at the birth of an infant the nurse takes a green stick of ash,
one end of which she puts into the fire, and, while it is burning, receives in a spoon the
sap that oozes from the other, which she administers to the child as its first food." This
recalls the sap of the sacred ash of Scandinavian mythology. Solinus states that the ancient
Irish mother "put the first food of her newborn son on the sword of her husband, and, lightly
introducing it into his mouth, expressed a wish that he might never meet death otherwise than
in war and amid arms," and a like custom is said "to have been kept up, prior to the union,
in Annandale and other places along the Scottish border" (460. 129, 131).

Salt.

Among the Negritos of the Philippine Islands, when a child is born, one of the other children
immediately gives it to eat some salt on the point of a knife (326. I. 258). The virtues of
salt are recognized among many peoples. In the Middle Ages, when mothers abandoned their infants,
they used to place beside them a little salt in token that they were unbaptized (326. I. 284);
in Scotland, where the new-born babe is "bathed in salted water, and made to taste it three
times, because the water was strengthening and also obnoxious to a person with the evil eye,"
the lady of the house first visited by the mother and child must, with the recital of a charm,
put some salt in the little one's mouth. In Brabant, during the baptismal ceremony, the priest
consecrates salt, given him by the father, and then puts a grain into the child's mouth, the
rest being carefully kept by the father. The great importance of salt in the ceremonies of
the Zuni and related Indians of the Pueblos has been pointed out by Mr. Gushing.

Salt appears also at modern European wedding-feasts and prenuptial rites, as do also rice and
meal, which are also among the first foods of some primitive races. Among the Badagas of the
Nilgiri Hills, when the child is named (from twenty to thirty days after birth), the maternal
uncle places three small bits of rice in its mouth (326. I. 284).

Folk-Medicine.

Among the Tlingit Indians, of Alaska, the new-born infant "is not given the breast until all
the contents of its stomach (which are considered the cause of disease) are removed by vomiting,
which is promoted by pressing the stomach" (403. 40), and among the Hare Indians, "the infant
is not allowed food until four days after birth, in order to accustom it to fasting in the
next world" (396. I. 121). The Songish Indians do not give the child anything to eat on the
first day (404. 20); the Kolosh Indians, of Alaska, after ten to thirty months "accustom their
children to the taste of a sea-animal," and, among the Arctic Eskimo, Kane found "children,
who could not yet speak, devouring with horrible greediness, great lumps of walrus fat and
flesh." Klutschak tells us how, during a famine, the Eskimo of Hudson's Bay melted and boiled
for the children the blood-soaked snow from the spot where a walrus had been killed and cut
up (326. II. 181).

In Culdaff, in the county of Donegal, Ireland, "an infant at its birth is forced to swallow
spirits, and is immediately afterwards [strange anticipation of Dr. Robinson] suspended by
the upper jaw on the nurse's forefinger. Whiskey is here the representative of the Hindu soma,
the sacred juice of the ash, etc., and the administration of alcoholic liquors to children
of a tender age in sickness and disease so common everywhere but a few years ago, founded itself
perhaps more upon this ancient belief than upon anything else" (401. 180).

The study of the food of sick children is an interesting one, and much of value may be read
of it in Zanetti (173), Black (401), and other writers who have treated of folk-medicine. The
decoctions of plants and herbs, the preparations of insects, reptiles, the flesh, blood, and
ordure of all sorts of beasts (and of man), which the doctrines of signatures and sympathies,
the craze of similia similibus, forced down the throat of the child, in the way of food and
medicine, are legion in number, and must be read in Folkard and the herbalists, in Bourke (407),
Strack, etc.

In some parts of the United States even snail-water and snail-soup are not unknown; in New
England, as Mrs. Earle informs us (221. 6), much was once thought of "the admirable and most
famous snail-water."

Milk and Honey.

As we have abundantly seen, the first food of the child is the "food of the gods," for so were
honey and milk esteemed among the ancient Germans, Greeks, Slavs, Hindus, etc., and of the
Paradise where dwelt the Gods, and into which it was fabled children were born, we have some
recollection, as Ploss suggests, in the familiar "land flowing with milk and honey," into the
possession of which the children of Israel entered after their long wandering in the wilderness
(462. II. 696). Of the ancient Hindu god Agni, Letourneau (100. 315) observes: "After being
for a long time fed upon melted butter and the alcoholic liquor from the acid asclepias, the
sacred Soma, he first became a glorious child, then a metaphysical divinity, a mediator living
in the fathers and living again in the sons." It was the divine Soma that, like the nectar
of the Greeks, the elixirs of the Scandinavians, conferred youth and immortality upon those
who drank it.

According to Moslem legend, after his birth, Abraham "remained concealed in a cave during fifteen
months, and his mother visited him sometimes to nurse him. But he had no need of her food,
for Allah commanded water to flow from one of Abraham's fingers, milk from another, honey from
the third, the juice of dates from the fourth, and butter from the fifth" (547. 69).

Poison.

In the Gesta Romanorum (Cap. XI.) we read of the "Queen of the North," who "nourished her daughter
from the cradle upon a certain kind of deadly poison; and when she grew up, she was considered
so beautiful, that the sight of her alone affected one with madness." Hawthorne's story of
"Rappaccini's Daughter,"--"who ever since infancy had grown and blossomed with the plants whose
fatal properties she had imbibed with the air she breathed,"--comes from the same original
source (390. II. 172). Here we are taken back again to the Golden Age, when even poisons could
be eaten without harm.

Priest and Food.

With the giving of the child's food the priest is often associated. In the Fiji Islands, at
Vitilevu, on the day when the navel-string falls off, a festival is held, and the food of the
child is blest by the priest with prayers for his life and prosperity. In Upper Egypt, a feast
is held at the house of the father and the child consecrated by the cadi or a priest, to whom
is brought a plate with sugar-candy. The priest chews the candy and lets the sweet juice fall
out of his mouth into that of the child, and thus "gives him his name out of his mouth" (326.
I. 284).

The over-indulgence of children in food finds parallels at a later period of life, when, as
with the people of southern Nubia and the Sahara between Talifet and Timbuktu, men fatten girls
before marriage, making them consume huge quantities of milk, butter, etc.

For children, among many primitive peoples, there are numerous taboos of certain classes and
kinds of food, from religious or superstitious motives. This taboo-system has not lost all
its force even to-day, as no other excuse can reasonably be offered for the refusal of certain
harmless food to the young.

Tobacco.

Concerning certain Australian tribes, Lumholtz remarks: "Before the children are big enough
to hold a pipe in their mouth they are permitted to smoke, and the mother will share her pipe
with the nursing babe" (495. 193). In like manner, among the natives of the Solomon Islands,
Mr. Guppy witnessed displays of precocity in this regard: "Bright-looking lads, eight or nine
years of age, stood smoking their pipes as gravely as Haununo [a chief] himself; and even the
smallest babe in its father's arms caught hold of his pipe and began to suck instinctively"
(466.42). With the Jivaro Indians of Ecuador, according to Simson, the child, when three or
four years old, is initiated into the mysteries of tobacco-smoking, amid great festivities
and ceremonies (533. 388).

Drink of Immortality.

Feeding the dead has been in practice among many primitive peoples. The mother, with some of
the Indian tribes of New Mexico, used to drop milk from her breast on the lips of her dead
babe; and in many parts of the world we meet with the custom of placing food near the grave,
so that the spirits may not hunger, or of placing it in the grave or coffin, so that on its
way to the spirit-land the soul of the deceased may partake of some refreshment. Among the
ancient natives of Venezuela, "infants who died a few days after their birth, were seated around
the Tree of Milk, or Celestial Tree, that distilled milk from the extremity of its branches";
and kindred beliefs are found elsewhere (448. 297).

We have also the tree associated beautifully with the newborn child, as Reclus records concerning
the Todas of the Nilgiri Hills, in India: "Immediately the deliverance has taken place--it
always happens in the open air--three leaves of the aforementioned tree [under which the mother
and father have passed the night] are presented to the father, who, making cups of them, pours
a few drops of water into the first, wherewith he moistens his lips; the remainder he decants
into the two other leaves; the mother drinks her share, and causes the baby to swallow his.
Thus, father, mother, and child, earliest of Trinities, celebrate their first communion, and
drink the living water, more sacred than wine, from the leaves of the Tree of Life" (523. 201).

The sacred books of the Hebrews tell us that the race of man in its infancy became like the
gods by eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge, and in the legends of other peoples immortality
came to the great heroes by drinking of the divine sap of the sacred tree, or partaking of
some of its fruit. The ancient Egyptians believed that milk from the breast of the divine mother
Isis conferred divinity and immortality upon him who drank of it or imbibed it from the sacred
source. Wiedemann aptly compares with this the Greek story of the infancy of Hercules. The
great child-hero was the son of the god Jupiter and Alcmena, daughter of Electryon, King of
Argos. He was exposed by his mother, but the goddess Athene persuaded Hera to give him her
breast (another version says Hermes placed Hercules on the breast of Hera, while she slept)
and the infant Hercules drew so lustily of the milk that he caused pain to the goddess, who
snatched him away. But Hercules had drunk of the milk of a goddess and had become immortal,
and as one of the gods (167. 266).

CHAPTER X.

CHILDREN'S SOULS.

  And rest at last where souls unbodied dwell
  In ever-flowing meads of Asphodel.
  --Homer (Pope's Transl.).

Baptism.

With certain Hindu castes, the new-born child is sprinkled with cold water, "in order that
the soul, which, since its last existence, has remained in a condition of dreamy contemplation,
may be brought to the consciousness that it has to go through a new period of trial in this
corporeal world" (326. II. 13). Perhaps, among the myriad rites and ceremonies of immersion
and sprinkling to which the infant is submitted with other primitive peoples, some traces of
similar beliefs may be found.

When the new world-religion was winning its way among the gentiles, baptism was the great barrier
erected between the babe and the power of ill, spirits of air, earth, and water, survivals
of old heathenism antagonistic to Christianity. Before that holy rite was performed, the child
lay exposed to all their machinations. Baptism was the armour of the infant against the assaults
of Satan and his angels, against the cunning of the wanderers from elfin-land, the fairy-sprites,
with their changelings and their impish tricks.

Hence, the souls of still-born and unbaptized children came into the power of these evil ones
and were metamorphosed into insects, birds, beasts, and the like, whose peculiar notes and
voices betray them as having once been little children, or were compelled to join, the train
of the wild huntsman, or mingle in the retinue of some other outcast, wandering sprite or devil;
or, again, as some deceitful star, or will-o'-the-wisp, mislead and torment the traveller on
moor and in bog and swamp, and guide him to an untimely death amid desert solitudes. Ploss,
Henderson, and Swainson have a good deal to say on the subject of Frau Berctha and her train,
the Wild Huntsman, the "Gabble Retchet," "Yeth Hounds," etc. Mr. Henderson tells us that, "in
North Devon the local name is 'yeth hounds,' heath and heathen being both 'yeth' in the North
Devon dialect. Unbaptized infants are there buried in a part of the churchyard set apart for
the purpose called 'Chrycimers,' i.e. Christianless, hill, and the belief seems to be that
their spirits, having no admittance into Paradise, unite in a pack of 'Heathen' or 'yeth' hounds,
and hunt the Evil One, to whom they ascribe their unhappy condition" (469. 131, 132). The prejudice
against unbaptized children lingers yet elsewhere, as the following extract from a newspaper
published in the year 1882 seems to indicate (230. 272):--

"There is in the island of Mull a little burial-ground entirely devoted to unbaptized children,
who were thus severed in the grave from those who had been interred in the hope of resurrection
to life. Only one adult lies with the little babes--an old Christian woman--whose last dying
request it was that she should be buried with the unbaptized children." The Rev. Mr. Thorn
has given the facts poetic form and made immortal that mother-heart whose love made holy--if
hallowed it needed to be--the lonely burial-ground where rest the infant outcasts:--

  "A spot that seems to bear a ban,
  As if by curse defiled:
  No mother lies there with her babe,
  No father by his child."

Among primitive peoples we find a like prejudice against still-born children and children who
die very young. The natives of the Highlands of Borneo think that still-born infants go to
a special spirit-land called Tenyn lallu, and "the spirits of these children are believed to
be very brave and to require no weapon other than a stick to defend themselves against their
enemies. The reason given for this idea is, that the child has never felt pain in this world
and is therefore very daring in the other" (475. 199). In Annam the spirits of children still-born
and of those dying in infancy are held in great fear. These spirits, called Con Ranh, or Con
Lon (from lon, "to enter into life"), are ever seeking "to incorporate themselves in the bodies
of others, though, after so doing, they are incapable of life." Moreover, "their names are
not mentioned in the presence of women, for it is feared they might take to these, and a newly-married
woman is in like manner afraid to take anything from a woman, or to wear any of the clothing
of one, who has had such a child. Special measures are necessary to get rid of the Con Ranh"
(397. 18-19). The Alfurus, of the Moluccas, "bury children up to their waists and expose them
to all the tortures of thirst until they wrench from them the promise to hurl themselves upon
the enemies of the village. Then they take them out, but only to kill them on the spot, imagining
that the spirits of the victims will respect their last promise" (388. 81). On the other hand,
Callaway informs us that the Zulu diviner may divine by the Amatongo (spirit) of infants, "supposed
to be mild and beneficent" (417. 176).

Transmigration. In their strangely poetical language, the Tupi Indians, of Brazil, term a child
pitanga, "suck soul," from piter, "to suck," anga, "soul." The Seminole Indians, of Florida,
"held the baby over the face of the woman dying in child-birth, so that it might receive her
parting spirit" (409. 271). A similar practice (with the father) is reported from Polynesia.
In a recently published work on "Souls," by Mrs. Mary Ailing Aber, we read:--

"Two-thirds of all the babies that are born in civilized lands to-day have no souls attached
to them. These babies are emanations from their parents,--not true entities; and, unless a
soul attaches itself, no ordinary efforts can carry one of them to the twentieth year. Souls
do attach themselves to babies after birth sometimes so late as the third year. On the other
hand, babies who have souls at birth sometimes lose them because the soul finds a better place,
or is drawn away by a stronger influence; but this rarely occurs after the third year."

This somewhat outre declaration of modern spiritualism finds kindred in some of the beliefs
of primitive peoples, concerning which there is much in Ploss, Frazer, Bastian, etc.

In one of the Mussulman stories of King Solomon, the Angel of Death descends in human form
to take the soul of an aged man, whose wish was to die when he had met the mightiest prophet.
He dies talking to the wise Hebrew king. Afterwards the Angel says to Solomon:--

"He [the angel, whose head reaches ten thousand years beyond the seventh heaven, whose feet
are five hundred years below the earth, and upon whose shoulders stands the Angel of Death]
it is who points out to me when and how I must take a soul. His gaze is fixed on the tree Sidrat
Almuntaha, which bears as many leaves inscribed with names as there are men living on the earth.

"At each new birth a new leaf, bearing the name of the newly-born, bursts forth; and when any
one has reached the end of his life, his leaf withers and falls off, and at the same instant
I am with him to receive his soul....

"As often as a believer dies, Gabriel attends me, and wraps his soul in a green silken sheet,
and then breathes it into a green bird, which feeds in Paradise until the day of the resurrection.
But the soul of the sinner I take alone, and, having wrapped it in a coarse, pitch-covered,
woollen cloth, carry it to the gates of Hell, where it wanders among abominable vapours until
the last day" (547. 213, 214).

According to the belief of the Miao-tse, an aboriginal tribe of the province of Canton, in
China, the souls of unborn children are kept in the garden of two deities called "Flower-Grandfather"
and "Flower-Grandmother," and when to these have been made by a priest sacrifices of hens or
swine, the children are let out and thus appear among men. As a charm against barrenness, these
people put white paper into a basket and have the priest make an invocation. The white paper
represents the deities, and the ceremony is called kau fa; i.e. "Flower Invocation."

In Japan, a certain Lake Fakone, owing its origin to an earthquake, and now surrounded by many
temples, is looked upon as the abode of the souls of children about to be born (326. I. 3).

Certain Californian Indians, near Monterey, thought that "the dead retreated to verdant islands
in the West, while awaiting the birth of the infants whose souls they were to form" (396. III.
525).

In Calabria, Italy, when a butterfly flits around a baby's cradle, it is believed to be either
an angel or a baby's soul, and a like belief prevails in other parts of the world; and we have
the classic personification of Psyche, the soul, as a butterfly.

Among the uneducated peasantry of Ireland, the pure white butterfly is thought to be the soul
of the sinless and forgiven dead on the way to Paradise, whilst the spotted ones are the embodiments
of spirits condemned to spend their time of purgatory upon earth, the number of the sins corresponding
with the number of spots on the wings of the insect (418. 192).

In early Christian art and folk-lore, the soul is often figured as a dove, and in some heathen
mythologies of Europe as a mouse, weasel, lizard, etc.

In various parts of the world we find that children, at death, go to special limbos, purgatories,
or heavens, and the folk-lore of the subject must be read at length in the mythological treatises.

The Andaman Islanders "believe that every child which is conceived has had a prior existence,
but only as an infant. If a woman who has lost a baby is again about to become a mother, the
name borne by the deceased is bestowed on the fetus, in the expectation that it will prove
to be the same child born again. Should it be found at birth that the babe is of the same sex
as the one who died, the identity is considered to be sufficiently established; but, if otherwise,
the deceased one is said to be under the rau- (Ficus laccifera), in cha-itan- (Hades)." Under
this tree, upon the fruit of which they live, also dwell "the spirits and souls of all children
who die before they cease to be entirely dependent on their parents (i.e. under six years of
age)" (498. 86, 93). There was a somewhat similar myth in Venezuela (448. 297).

Mr. Codrington gives some interesting illustrations of this belief from Melanesia (25. 311):--

"In the island of Aurora, Maewo, in the New Hebrides, women sometimes have a notion that the
origin, beginning, of one of their children is a cocoanut or a bread-fruit, or something of
that kind; and they believe, therefore, that it would be injurious to the child to eat that
food. It is a fancy of the woman, before the birth of the child, that the infant will be the
nunu, which may be translated the echo, of such an object. Women also fancy that a child is
the nunu of some dead person. It is not a notion of metempsychosis, as if the soul of the dead
person returned in the new-born child; but it is thought that there is so close a connection
that the infant takes the place of the deceased. At Mota, also, in the Banks Islands, there
was the belief that each person had a source of his being, his origin, in some animate or inanimate
thing, which might, under some circumstances, become known to him." As Mr. Codrington suggests,
such beliefs throw light upon the probable origin of totemism and its development.

Spirit-World.

Mrs. Stevenson informs us that "although the Sia do not believe in a return of the spirits
of their dead when they have once entered Shipapo [the lower world], there was once an exception
to this." The priestly tale, as told to Mrs. Stevenson, is as follows (538. 143):--

"When the years were new, and this village had been built perhaps three years, all the spirits
of our dead came here for a great feast. They had bodies such as they had before death; wives
recognized husbands, husbands wives, children parents, and parents children. Just after sundown
the spirits began arriving, only a few passing over the road by daylight, but after dark they
came in great crowds and remained until near dawn. They tarried but one night; husbands and
wives did not sleep together; had they done so, the living would have surely died. When the
hour of separation came, there was much weeping, not only among the living, but the dead. The
living insisted upon going with the dead, but the dead declared they must wait,--that they
could not pass through the entrance to the other world; they must first die or grow old and
again become little children to be able to pass through the door of the world for the departed.
It was then that the Sia first learned all about their future home. They learned that the fields
were vast, the pastures beautiful, the mountains high, the lakes and rivers clear like crystal,
and the wheat and cornfields flourishing. During the day the spirits sleep, and at night they
work industriously in the fields. The moon is father to the dead as the sun is father to the
living, the dead resting when the sun travels, for at this time they see nothing; it is when
the sun returns to his home at night that the departed spirits work and pass about in their
world below. The home of the departed spirits is in the world first inhabited by the Sia."

We learn further: "It is the aim of the Sia to first reach the intermediate state at the time
the body ceases to develop, and then return gradually back to the first condition of infancy;
at such periods one does not die, but sleeps to awake in the spirit-world as a little child.
Many stories have come to the Sia by those who have died only for a time; the heart becomes
still and the lips cold, and the spirit passes to the entrance of the other world and looks
in, but does not enter, and yet it sees all, and in a short time returns to inhabit its earthly
body. Great alarm is felt when one returns in this way to life, but much faith is put in the
stories afterwards told by the one who has passed over the road of death."

Certain Siouan Indians think: "The stars are all deceased men. When a child is born, a star
descends and appears on earth in human form; after death it reascends and appears as a star
in heaven" (433. 508).

CHAPTER XI

CHILDREN'S FLOWERS, PLANTS, AND TREES. 15.

  A child at play in meadows green,
  Plucking the fragrant flowers,
  Chasing the white-winged butterflies,--
  So sweet are childhood's hours.

  We meet wi' blythesome and kythesome cheerie weans,
  Daffin' and laughin' far adoon the leafy lanes,
  Wi' gowans and buttercups buskin' the thorny wands--
  Sweetly singin' wi' the flower-branch wavin' in their hands.

  O who can tell
  The hidden power of herbs, and might of magic spell?--Spenser.

Plant Life and Human Life.

Flowers, plants, and trees have ever been interwoven with the fate of man in the minds of poets
and folk-thinkers. The great Hebrew psalmist declared: "As for man, his days are as grass;
as a flower of the field so he flourisheth," and the old Greeks said beautifully, [greek: oiaper
phyllon genea, toiade kai andron], "as is the generation of leaves, so is also that of men";
or, to quote the words of Homer (Iliad, vi. 146):--

  "Like as the generation of leaves, so also is that of men;
  For the wind strews the leaves on the ground; but the forest,
  Putting forth fresh buds, grows on, and spring will presently return.
  Thus with the generation of men; the one blooms, the other fades away."

One derivation (a folk-etymology, perhaps) suggested for the Greek [Greek: anthropos] connects
it with [Greek: anthos], making man to be "that which springs up like a flower." We ourselves
speak of the "flower of chivalry," the "bloom of youth," "budding youth"; the poets call a
little child a "flower," a "bud," a "blossom,"--Herrick even terms an infant "a virgin flosculet."
Plants, beasts, men, cities, civilizations, grow and flourish; the selfsame words are applied
to them all.

The same idea comes out strongly in the words relating to birth and childhood in the languages
of many primitive peoples. With the Cakchiquel Indians of Guatemala the term boz has the following
meanings: "to issue forth; (of flowers) to open, to blow; (of a butterfly) to come forth from
the cocoon; (of chicks) to come forth from the egg; (of grains of maize) to burst; (of men)
to be born"; in Nahuatl (Aztec), itzmolini signifies "to sprout, to grow, to be born"; in Delaware,
an Algonkian Indian dialect, mehittuk, "tree," mehittgus, "twig," mehittachpin, "to be born,"
seem related, while gischigin means "to ripen, to mature, to be born."

In many tongues the words for "young" reveal the same flow of thought. In Maya, an Indian language
of Yucatan, yax signifies "green, fresh, young"; in Nahuatl, yancuic, "green, fresh, new,"
and yancuic pilla, "a new-born babe"; in Chippeway, oshki, "new, fresh, young," whence oshkigin,
"young shoot," oshkinawe, "lad, youth," oshkinig, "newly born," oshkinaiaa, "a new or young
object," oshkiaiaans, "a young animal or bird," oshkiabinodji, "babe, infant, new-born child";
in Karankawa, an Indian language of Texas, kwa'-an, "child, young," signifies literally "growing,"
from ka'-awan, "to grow" (said of animals and plants).

Our English words lad and lass, which came to the language from Celtic sources, find their
cognate in the Gothic jugga-lauths, "young lad, young man," where jugga means "young," and
lauths is related to the verb liudan, "to grow, to spring up," from which root we have also
the German Leute and the obsolete English leet, for "people" were originally "the grown, the
sprung up."

Maid (maiden), Anglo-Saxon moegd, Modern High German Magd, Gothic magaths (and here belongs
also old English may) is an old Teutonic word for "virgin, young girl." The Gothic magaths
is a derivative from magus, "son, boy, servant," cognate with Old Irish mac, "boy, son, youth,"
mog (mug), "slave," Old Norse mqgr, "son," Anglo-Saxon mago, "son, youth, servant, man," the
radical of all these terms being mag, "to have power, to increase, to grow,"--the Gothic magus
was properly "a growing (boy)," a "maid" is "a growing (girl)." The same idea underlies the
month-name May, for, to the Romans, this was "the month of growth,"--flowery, bounteous May,--and
dedicated to Maia, "the increaser," but curiously, as Ovid tells us, the common people considered
it unlucky to marry in May, for then the rites of Bona Dea, the goddess of chastity, and the
feasts of the dead, were celebrated.

Plant-Lore.

The study of dendanthropology and human florigeny would lead us wide afield. The ancient Semitic
peoples of Asia Minor had their "Tree of Life," which later religions have spiritualized, and
more than one race has ascribed its origin to trees. The Carib Indians believed that mankind--woman
especially--were first created from two trees (509. 109). According to a myth of the Siouan
Indians, the first two human beings stood rooted as trees in the ground for many ages, until
a great snake gnawed at the roots, so that they got loose and became the first Indians. In
the old Norse cosmogony, two human beings--man and woman--were created from two trees--ash
and elm--that stood on the sea-shore; while Tacitus states that the holy grove of the Semnones
was held to be the cradle of the nation, and in Saxony, men are said to have grown from trees.
The Maya Indians called themselves "sons of the trees" (509. 180, 264).

Doctor Beauchamp reports a legend of the Iroquois Indians, according to which a god came to
earth and sowed five handfuls of seed, and these, changing to worms, were taken possession
of by spirits, changed to children, and became the ancestors of the Five Nations (480. IV. 297).

Classical mythology, along with dryads and tree-nymphs of all sorts, furnishes us with a multitude
of myths of the metamorphosis of human beings into trees, plants, and flowers. Among the most
familiar stories are those of Adonis, Crocus, Phyllis, Narcissus, Leucothea, Hyacinthus, Syrinx,
Clytie, Daphne, Orchis, Lotis, Philemon and Baucis, Atys, etc. All over the world we find myths
of like import.

A typical example is the Algonkian Indian legend of the transformation of Mishosha, the magician,
into the sugar-maple,--the name aninatik or ininatik is interpreted by folk-etymology as "man-tree,"
the sap being the life-blood of Mishosha. Gluskap, the culture-hero of the Micmacs, once changed
"a mighty man" into the cedar-tree.

Many of the peculiarities of trees and plants are explained by the folk as resulting from their
having once been human creatures.

Grimm and Ploss have called attention to the widespread custom of planting trees on the occasion
of the birth of a child, the idea being that some sort of connection between the plant and
the human existed and would show itself sympathetically. In Switzerland, where the belief is
that the child thrives with the tree, or vice versa, apple-trees are planted for boys and pear-
or nut-trees for girls. Among the Jews, a cedar was planted for a boy and a pine for a girl,
while for the wedding canopy, branches were cut from both these trees (385. 6). Here belong
also "flourishing like a green bay-tree," and the remark of the Captain in Shakespeare's King
Richard Second:--

  "'Tis thought the king is dead. We will not stay;
  The bay-trees in our country are all withered."

Child-Flowers and -Plants.

The planting of trees for the hero or the heroine and the belief that these wither when a death
is near, blossom when a happy event approaches, and in many ways react to the fate and fortune
of their human fellows, occur very frequently in fairy-tales and legends.

There is a sweet Tyrolian legend of "a poor idiot boy, who lived alone in the forest and was
never heard to say any words but 'Ave Maria.' After his death a lily sprang up on his grave,
on whose petals 'Ave Maria' might be distinctly read." (416. 216).

An old Greek myth relates that the Crocus "sprang from the blood of the infant Crocus, who
was accidentally struck by a metal disc thrown by Mercury, whilst playing a game" (448.299).
In Ossianic story, "Malvina, weeping beside the tomb of Fingal, for Oscar and his infant son,
is comforted by the maids of Morven, who narrate how they have seen the innocent infant borne
on a light mist, pouring upon the fields a fresh harvest of flowers, amongst which rises one
with golden disc, encircled with rays of silver, tipped with a delicate tint of crimson." Such,
according to this Celtic legend, was the origin of the daisy (448. 308).

The peasants of Brittany believe that little children, when they die, go straight to Paradise
and are changed into beautiful flowers in the garden of heaven (174. 141). Similar beliefs
are found in other parts of the world, and a like imagery is met with among our poets. Well
known is Longfellow's little poem "The Reaper and the Flowers," in which death, as a reaper,
reaps not alone the "bearded grain," but also "the flowers [children] that grow between," for:--

 "'My Lord has need of these flowerets gay,'
  The reaper said, and smiled;
  'Dear tokens of the earth are they,
  Where he was once a child.'"

And so:--

 "The mother gave, in tears and pain,
  The flowers she most did love;
  She knew she should find them all again
  In the field of light above."

According to a myth of the Chippeway Indians, a star once came down from heaven to dwell among
men. Upon consulting with a young man in a dream as to where it should live, it was told to
choose a place for itself, and, "at first, it dwelt in the white rose of the mountains; but
there it was so buried that it could not be seen. It went to the prairie; but it feared the
hoof of the buffalo. It next sought the rocky cliff; but there it was so high that the children
whom it loved most could not see it." It decided at last to dwell where it could always be
seen, and so one morning the Indians awoke to find the surface of river, lake, and pond covered
with thousands of white flowers. Thus came into existence the beautiful water-lilies (440.
68-70). (393.341).

Star-Flowers.

Beside this, however, we may perhaps place the following quaint story of "The Devils on the
Meadows of Heaven," of which a translation from the German of Rudolph Baumbach, by "C. F. P.,"
appears in the Association Record (October, 1892), published by the Young Women's Christian
Association of Worcester, Mass.:--

"As you know, good children, when they die, come to Heaven and become angels. But if you perhaps
think they do nothing the sweet, long day but fly about and play hide-and-seek behind the clouds,
you are mistaken. The angel-children are obliged to go to school like the boys and girls on
the earth, and on week days must be in the angel-school three hours in the forenoon and two
in the afternoon. There they write with golden pens on silver slates, and instead of ABC-books
they have story-books with gay-coloured pictures. They do not learn geography, for of what
use in Heaven is earth-knowledge; and in eternity one doesn't know the multiplication table
at all. Dr. Faust is the angel-school teacher. On earth he was an A.M., and on account of a
certain event which does not belong here, he is obliged to keep school in Heaven three thousand
years more before the long vacation begins for him. Wednesday and Saturday afternoons the little
angels have holiday; then they are taken to walk on the Milky Way by Dr. Faust. But Sunday
they are allowed to play on the great meadow in front of the gate of Heaven, and that they
joyfully anticipate during the whole week.

"The meadow is not green, but blue, and on it grow thousands and thousands of silver and golden
flowers. They shine in the night and we men call them stars.

"When the angels are sporting about before the gate of Heaven, Dr. Faust is not present, for
on Sunday he must recover from the toil of the past week. St. Peter, who keeps watch at the
Heavenly gate, then takes charge. He usually sees to it that the play goes on properly, and
that no one goes astray or flies away; but if one ever gets too far away from the gate, then
he whistles on his golden key, which means 'Back!'

"Once--it was really very hot in Heaven--St. Peter fell asleep. When the angels noticed this,
they ceased swarming hither and thither and scattered over the whole meadow. But the most enterprising
of them went out on a trip of discovery, and came at last to the place where the world is surrounded
by a board fence. First they tried to find a crack somewhere through which they might peep,
but as they found no gap, they climbed up the board fence and hung dangling and looking over.
Yonder, on the other side, was hell, and before its gate a crowd of little devils were just
running about. They were coal-black, and had horns on their heads and long tails behind. One
of them chanced to look up and noticed the angels, and immediately begged imploringly that
they would let them into Heaven for a little while; they would behave quite nice and properly.
This moved the angels to pity, and because they liked the little black fellows, they thought
they might perhaps allow the poor imps this innocent pleasure.

"One of them knew the whereabouts of Jacob's ladder. This they dragged to the place from the
lumber-room (St. Peter had, luckily, not waked up), lifted it over the fence of boards, and
let it down into hell. Immediately the tailed fellows clambered up its rounds like monkeys,
the angels gave them their hands, and thus came the devils upon Heaven's meadows.

"At first they behaved themselves in a quite orderly manner. Modestly they stepped along and
carried their tails on their arms like trains, as the devil grandmother, who sets great value
on propriety, had taught them. But it did not last long; they became frolicsome, turned wheels
and somersaults, and shrieked at the same time like real imps. The beautiful moon, who was
looking kindly out of a window in Heaven, they derided, thrust out their tongues and made faces
(German: long noses) at her, and finally began to pluck up the flowers which grew on the meadow
and throw them down on the earth. Now the angels grew frightened and bitterly repented letting
their evil guests into Heaven. They begged and threatened, but the devils cared for nothing,
and kept on in their frolic more madly. Then, in terror, the angels waked up St. Peter and
penitently confessed to him what they had done. He smote his hands together over his head when
he saw the mischief which the imps had wrought. 'March in!' thundered he, and the little ones,
with drooping wings, crept through the gate into Heaven. Then St. Peter called a few sturdy
angels. They collected the imps and took them where they belonged.

"The little angels did not escape punishment. Three Sundays in succession they were not allowed
in front of Heaven's gate, and, if they were taken to walk, they were obliged to first unbuckle
their wings and lay aside their halos; and it is a great disgrace for an angel to go about
without wings and halo.

"But the affair resulted in some good, after all. The flowers which the devils had torn up
and thrown upon the earth took root and increased from year to year. To be sure, the star-flower
lost much of its heavenly beauty, but it is still always lovely to look at, with its golden-yellow
disk, and its silvery white crown of rays.

"And because of its Heavenly origin, a quite remarkable power resides in it. If a maiden, whose
mind harbours a doubt, pulls off, one by one, the white petals of the flower-star, whispering
meanwhile a certain sentence at the fall of the last little petal, she is quite sure of what
she desires to know."

The very name Aster is suggestive of star-origin and recalls the lines of Longfellow:--

  "Spake full well, in language quaint and olden,
    One who dwelleth by the castled Rhine,
  When he called the flowers, so blue and golden,
    Stars, that in earth's firmament do shine."

The reference seems to be to Friedrich Wilhelm Carove, of Coblentz, in whose Marchen ohne Ende,
a forget-me-not is spoken of as "twinkling as brightly as a blue star on the green firmament
of earth" (390. II. 149).

Another contribution to floral astrology is the brief poem of H. M. Sweeny in the Catholic
World for November, 1892:--

  "The Milky Way is the foot-path
    Of the martyrs gone to God;
  Its stars are the flaming jewels
    To show us the way they trod.

  "The flowers are stars dropped lower,
    Our daily path to light,
  In daylight to lead us upward
    As those jewels do at night."

Flower-oracles are discussed in another section, and the "language of flowers" of which the
poet tells,--

  "In Eastern lands they talk in flowers,
    And they tell in a garland their loves and cares;
  Each blossom that blooms in their garden bower
    On its leaves a mystic language bears,"

must be studied in Dyer, Friend, and Folkard, or in the various booklets which treat of this
entertaining subject.

Though in Bohemia it is believed that "seven-year-old children will become beautiful by dancing
in the flax," and in some parts of Germany "when an infant seems weakly and thrives slowly,
it is placed naked upon the turf on Midsummer Day, and flax-seed is sprinkled over it; the
idea being, that, as the flax-seed grows, so the child will gradually grow stronger" (435.
278, 279); flowers and plants are sometimes associated with ill-luck and death. In Westphalia
and Thuringia the superstition prevails that "any child less than a year old, who is permitted
to wreathe himself with flowers, will soon die." In the region about Cockermouth, in the county
of Cumberland, England, the red campion (Lychnis diurna) is known as "mother-die," the belief
being that, if children gather it, some misfortune is sure to happen to the parents. Dyer records
also the following: "In West Cumberland, the herb-robert (Geranium robertianum) is called 'death
come quickly,' from a like reason, while in parts of Yorkshire, the belief is that the mother
of a child who has gathered the germander speedwell (Veronica chamoedrys) will die ere the
year is out" (435. 276).

Children's Plant-Names.

Mr. H. C. Mercer, discussing the question of the presence of Indian corn in Italy and Europe
in early times, remarks (Amer. Naturalist, Vol. XXVIII., 1894, p. 974):--

"An etymology has been suggested for the name Grano Turco [Turkish grain], in the antics of
boys when bearded and moustached with maize silk, they mimic the fierce looks of Turks in the
high 'corn.' We cannot think that the Italian lad does not smoke the mock tobacco that must
tempt him upon each ear. If he does, he apes a habit no less American in its origin than the
maize itself. So the American lad playing with a 'shoe-string bow' or a 'corn-stalk fiddle'
would turn to Italy for his inspiration."

In the interesting lists of popular American plant-names, published by Mrs. Fanny D. Bergen
(400), are found the following in which the child is remembered:--

Babies' breath, Galium Mollugo. In Eastern Massachusetts. Babies' breath, Muscari botryoides.
In Eastern Massachusetts. Babies' feet, Polygala paucifolia. In New Hampshire. Babies' slippers,
Polygala paucifolia. In Western Massachusetts. Babies' toes, Polygala paucifolia. In Hubbardston,
Mass. Baby blue-eyes, Nemophila insignis. In Sta. Barbara, Cal. Blue-eyed babies, Houstonia
coerulea. In Springfield, Mass. Boys and girls, Dicentra cucullaria. In New York. Boys' love,
Artemisia absinthium. In Wellfleet, Mass. Death-baby, Phallus sp. (?). In Salem, Mass. Girls
and boys, Dicentra cucullaria. In Vermont. Little boy's breeches, Dicentra cucullaria. In Central
Iowa.

"Blue-eyed babies" is certainly an improvement upon "Quaker ladies," the name by which the
Houstonia is known in some parts of New England; "death-baby" is a term that is given, Mrs.
Bergen tells us, "from the fancy that they foretell death in the family near whose house they
spring up. I have known of intelligent people rushing out in terror and beating down a colony
of these as soon as they appeared in the yard."

The parents have not been entirely forgotten, as the following names show:--

  Mother's beauties, Calandrina Menziesii. In Sta. Barbara, Cal.
  Mother of thousands, Tradescantia crassifolia (?). In Boston, Mass.
  Daddy-nuts, Tilia sp. (?). In Madison, Wis.

At La Crosse, Wis., the Lonicera talarica, is called "twin sisters," a name which finds many
analogues.

As we have seen, the consideration of children as flowers, plants, trees, traverses many walks
of life. Floral imagery has appealed to many primitive peoples, perhaps to none more than to
the ancient Mexicans, with whom children were often called flowers, and the Nagualists termed
Mother-Earth "the flower that contains everything," and "the flower that eats everything"--being
at once the source and end of life (413. 54).

A sweet old German legend has it that the laughter of little children produced roses, and the
sweetest and briefest of the "good-night songs" of the German mothers is this:--

  "Guten Abend, gute Nacht!
   Mit Rosen bedacht,
   Mit Naglein besteckt;
   Morgen fruh, wenn's Gott will,
   Wirst du wieder geweckt."

CHAPTER XII.

CHILDREN'S ANIMALS, BIRDS, ETC.

  My brother, the hare, ... my sisters, the doves.
  --St. Francis of Assisi.

  Love of animals is inborn. The child that has had no pets is to
  be pitied.--G. Stanley Hall.

  For what are the voices of birds--
  Aye, and of beasts,--but words, our words,
  Only so much more sweet?--Browning.

  I know not, little Ella, what the flowers
    Said to you then, to make your cheek so pale;
  And why the blackbird in our laurel bowers
    Spoke to you, only: and the poor pink snail
  Fear'd less your steps than those of the May-shower
    It was not strange those creatures loved you so,
    And told you all. 'Twas not so long ago
  You were yourself a bird, or else a flower.
    --Lord Lytton (Owen Meredith).

Children and Young Animals.

The comparisons sometimes made of children with various of the lower animals, such as monkeys,
bears, pigs, etc., come more naturally to some primitive peoples, who, as Ploss has pointed
out, suckle at the breast the young of certain animals simultaneously with their own offspring.
In this way, the infant in the Society Islands comes early into association with puppies, as
he does also among several of the native tribes of Australia and America; so was it likewise
in ancient Rome, and the custom may yet be found among the tent-gypsies of Transylvania, in
Persia, and even within the present century has been met with in Naples and Gottingen. The
Maori mother, in like manner, suckles young pigs, the Arawak Indian of Guiana young monkeys
(as also do the Siamese), the natives of Kamtschatka young bears. An old legend of the city
of Breslau has it that the fashion certain ladies have of carrying dogs around with them originated
in the fact that Duke Boleslau, in the last quarter of the eleventh century, punished the women
of Breslau, for some connubial unfaithfulness, by taking away their suckling children and making
them, carry instead puppies at the breast (392. I. 61).

Of the Arekuna of Guiana, Schomburgk tells us:--"They bring up children and monkeys together.
The monkeys are members of the family, eat with the other members, are suckled by the women,
and have great affection for their human nurses. Oftentimes a woman is to be seen with a child
and a monkey at the breast, the two nurselings quarrelling" (529. 13).

The young children of the less nomadic tribes grow up in close association with the few domestic
animals possessed by their parents, tumbling about with the puppies on the wigwam-floor or
racing with them around the camp-stead.

The history of totemism and fetichism, primitive medicine, and the arts connected therewith,
their panaceas, talismans, and amulets, show early association of the child with animals. In
the village of Issapoo, on the island of Fernando Po, in Western Africa, there is fastened
to a pole in the market-place a snake-skin, to touch which all infants born the preceding year
are brought by their mothers during an annual festival (529. 32). In various parts of the world,
novices and neophytes are put to dream or fast in seclusion until they see some animal which
becomes their tutelary genius, and whose form is often tattooed upon their body.

Sir John Maundeville, the veracious mediaeval chronicler, reported that in Sicily serpents
were used to test the legitimacy of children; "if the children be illegitimate, the serpents
bite and kill them." Hartland cites, on the authority of Thiele, "a story in which a wild stallion
colt is brought in to smell two babes, one of which is a changeling. Every time he smells one
he is quiet and licks it; but, on smelling the other, he is invariably restive and strives
to kick it. The latter, therefore, is the changeling" (258. 111).

Animal Nurses.

Akin to these practices are many of the forms of exposure and abandonment all over the world.
Shakespeare, in The Winter's Tale, makes Antigonus say:--

  "Come on (poor Babe).
  Some powerful Spirit instruct the Kites and Ravens
  To be thy Nurses. Wolves and Bears, they say
  (Casting their savageness aside), have done
  Like offices of pity."

An old Egyptian painting represents a child and a calf being suckled by the same cow, and in
Palestine and the Canary Islands, goats are used to suckle children, especially if the mother
of the little one has died (125. II. 393). The story of Psammetichus and the legend of Romulus
and Remus find parallels in many lands. Gods, heroes, saints, are suckled and cared for in
their infancy by grateful beasts.

Wild Children.

Doctor Tylor has discussed at some length the subject of "wild men and beast children" (376),
citing examples from many different parts of the globe. Procopius, the chronicler of the Gothic
invasion of Italy, states (with the additional information that he saw the child in question
himself), that, after the barbarians had ravaged the country, "an infant, left by its mother,
was found by a she-goat, which suckled and took care of it. When the survivors came back to
their deserted homes, they found the child living with its adopted mother, and called it Aegisthus."
Doctor Tylor calls attention to the prevalence of similar stories in Germany after the destruction
and devastation of the Napoleonic wars; there appears to be record of several children wild
or animal-reared having, during this period, been received into Count von Recke's asylum at
Overdyke. Many of these tales we need not hesitate to dismiss as purely fabulous, though there
may be truth in some of the rest. Among the best-known cases (some of which are evidently nothing
more than idiots, or poor wandering children) are: Peter, the "Wild Boy" of Hameln (in 1724);
the child reported in the Hessian Chronicle as having been found by some hunters living with
wolves in 1341; the child reported by Bernard Connor as living with she-bears, and the child
found with bears at Grodno in Poland; the wolf-child of the Ardennes, mentioned by Koenig,
in his treatise on the subject; the Irish boy said to feed on grass and hay, found living among
the wild sheep; the girl found living wild in Holland in 1717; the two goat-like boys of the
Pyrenees (in 1719); the amphibious wild girl of Chalons sur Marne (in 1731); the wild boy of
Bamberg, who lowed like an ox; and, the most renowned of all, Kaspar Hauser. This celebrated
"wild boy" has recently been made the subject of a monograph by the Duchess of Cleveland (208),
of which the first words are these: "The story of Kaspar Hauser is both curious and instructive.
It shows on how commonplace and unpromising a foundation a myth of European celebrity may rest."
Sir William Sleeman has something to say of "beast-children" in the Kingdom of Oude (183),
and Mr. Ball, who writes of wolf-reared children in India, calls attention to the fact that
in that country there seems to have been no instance of a wolf-reared girl (183. 474).

In the Katha sarit sagara ("Ocean of the River of Story"), a work belonging to the twelfth
century, there is the story of the immoral union of a yaksha, or jin, and the daughter of a
holy man, who was bathing in the Granges. The relatives of the girl by magic changed the two
guilty persons into a lion and a lioness. The latter soon died, but gave birth to a human child,
which the lion-father made the other lionesses suckle. The baby grew up and became "the world-ruling
king, Satavahana" (376. 29). Another Hindu story tells how the daughter of a Brahman, giving
birth to a child while on a journey, was forced to leave it in a wood, where it was suckled
and nursed by female jackals until rescued by merchants who happened to pass by.

Herodotus repeats the tales that Cyrus was nursed and suckled by a bitch; Zeus figures as suckled
by a goat; Romulus and Remus, the founders of Rome according to the ancient legend, were nursed
by a she-wolf; and others of the heroes and gods of old were suckled by animals whose primitive
kinship with the race of man the folk had not forgotten.

Professor Rauber of Dorpat, in his essay on "Homo Sapiens Ferus" (335), discusses in detail
sixteen cases of wild children (including most of those treated by Tylor) as follows: the two
Hessian wolf-children, boys (1341-1344); the Bamberg boy, who grew up among the cattle (at
the close of the sixteenth century); Hans of Liege; the Irish boy brought up by sheep; the
three Lithuanian bear-boys (1657, 1669, 1694); the girl of Oranienburg (1717); the two Pyrenaan
boys (1719); Peter, the wild boy of Hameln (1724); the girl of Songi in Champagne (1731); the
Hungarian bear-girl (1767); the wild man of Cronstadt (end of eighteenth century); the boy
of Aveyron (1795). It will be noticed that in this list of sixteen cases but two girls figure.

As a result of his studies Professor Rauber concludes: "What we are wont to call reason does
not belong to man as such; in himself he is without it. The appellation Homo sapiens does not
then refer to man as such, but to the ability under certain conditions of becoming possessed
of reason. It is the same with language and culture of every sort. The title Homo sapiens ferus
(Linnaus) is in a strict sense unjustifiable and a contradiction in itself." To prehistoric
man these wild children are like, but they are not the same as he; they resemble him, but cannot
be looked upon as one and the same with him. From the stand-point of pedagogy, Professor Rauber,
from the consideration of these children, feels compelled to declare that "the ABC-school must
be replaced by the culture-school." In other words: "The ABC is not, as so many believe, the
beginning of all wisdom. In order to be able to admeasure this sufficiently, prehistoric studies
are advisable, nay, necessary. Writing is a very late acquisition of man. In the arrangement
of a curriculum for the first years of the culture-school, reading and writing are to be placed
at the end of the second school year, but never are they to begin the course ... Manual training
ought also to be taken up in the schools; it is demanded by considerations of culture-history"
(335.133).

Animal Stories.

Professor W. H. Brewer of New Haven, discussing the "instinctive interest of children in bear
and wolf stories," observes (192): "The children of European races take more interest in bear
and wolf stories than in stories relating to any other wild animals. Their interest in bears
is greater than that in wolves, and in the plays of children bears have a much more conspicuous
part. There is a sort of fascination in everything relating to these animals that attracts
the child's attention from a very early age, and 'Tell me a bear story' is a common request
long before it learns to read." After rejecting, as unsatisfactory, the theory that would make
it a matter of education with each child,--"the conservative traditions of children have preserved
more stories about bears and wolves, parents and nurses talk more about them, these animals
have a larger place in the literature for children; hence the special interest,"--Professor
Brewer expresses his own belief that "the special interest our children show towards these
two animals is instinctive, and it is of the nature of an inherited memory, vague, to be sure,
yet strong enough to give a bend to the natural inclinations." He points out that the bear
and the wolf are the two animals "which have been and still are the most destructive to human
life (and particularly to children) in our latitude and climate," and that "several of the
large breeds of dogs,--the wolf-hound proper, the mastiff (particularly the Spanish mastiff),
and even the St. Bernard,--were originally evolved as wolf-dogs for the protection of sheep
and children." His general conclusion is: "The fear inspired by these animals during the long
ages of the childhood of our civilization, and the education of the many successive generations
of our ancestors in this fear, descends to us as an inherited memory, or, in other words, an
instinct. While not strong, it is of sufficient force to create that kind of fascination which
stories of bears and wolves have in children before the instincts are covered up and obscured
by intellectual education. The great shaggy bear appeals more strongly to the imagination of
children, hence its superior value to play 'boo' with."

Rabbit and Hare.

The rabbit and the hare figure in many mythologies, and around them, both in the Old World
and the New, has grown up a vast amount of folk-lore. The rabbit and the child are associated
in the old nursery-rhyme:--

  "Bye, bye, Baby Bunting,
  Papa's gone a-hunting,
  To get a rabbit-skin,
  To wrap Baby Bunting in,"

which reminds us at once of the Chinook Indians and the Flat Heads of the Columbia, with whom
"the child is wrapped in rabbit-skins and placed in this little coffin-like cradle, from which
it is not in some instances taken out for several weeks" (306.174).

An Irish belief explains hare-lip as having been caused, before the birth of the child, by
the mother seeing a hare. The Chinese think that "a hare or a rabbit sits at the foot of the
cassia-tree in the moon, pounding the drugs out of which the elixir of immortality is compounded"
(401. 155).

The Ungava Eskimo, according to Turner, have a legend that the hare was once a little child,
abused by its elders; "it ran away to dwell by itself. The hare has no tail, because as a child
he had none; and he lays back his ears, when he hears a shout, because he thinks people are
talking about him" (544. 263).

In a myth of the Menomoni Indians, reported by Dr. W. J. Hoffman, we read that Manabush [the
great culture-hero] and a twin brother were born the sons of the virgin daughter of an old
woman named Nokomis. His brother and mother died. Nokomis wrapped Manabush in dry, soft grass,
and placed a wooden bowl over him. After four days a noise proceeded from the bowl, and, upon
removing it, she saw "a little white rabbit with quivering ears." Afterwards, when grown up,
and mourning for the death of his brother, Manabush is said to have hid himself in a large
rock near Mackinaw, where he was visited by the people for many years. When he did not wish
to see them in his human form, he appeared to them as "a little white rabbit with trembling
ears" (389. (1890) 246). Of the white rabbit, the Great Hare, Manabush, Naniboju, etc., more
must be read in the mythological essays of Dr. Brinton.

Among the tales of the Ainu of Yezo, Japan, recorded by Professor B. H. Chamberlain, is the
following concerning the Hare-god:--

"Suddenly there was a large house on top of a hill, wherein were six persons beautifully arrayed,
but constantly quarrelling. Whence they came was not known. Thereupon [the god] Okikurumi came,
and said: 'Oh, you bad hares! you wicked hares! Who should not know your origin? The children
in the sky were pelting each other with snowballs, and the snowballs fell into this world of
men. As it would have been a pity to waste heaven's snow, the snowballs were turned into hares,
and those hares are you. You who live in this world of mine, this world of human beings, must
be quiet. What is it that you are brawling about?' With these words, Okikurumi seized a fire-brand,
and beat each of the six with it in turn. Thereupon all the hares ran away. This is the origin
of the hare-god, and for this reason the body of the hare is white, because made of snow, while
its ears, which are the part which was charred by the fire, are black" (471. 486).

The Mayas of Yucatan have a legend of a town of hares under the earth (411. 179).

In Germany we meet with the "Easter-Hare" (Oster-Hase). In many parts of that country the custom
prevails at or about Easter-tide of hiding in the garden, or in the house, eggs, which, the
children are told, have been laid by the "Easter-hare." Another curious term met with in northeastern
Germany is "hare-bread" (Hasenbrod). In Quedlinburg this name is given to bread (previously
placed there intentionally by the parents) picked up by children when out walking with their
parents or elders. In Luneburg it is applied to dry bread given a hungry child with an exhortation
to patience. In the first case, the little one is told that the hare has lost it, and in the
second, that it has been taken away from him. The name "hare-bread" is also given to bread
brought home by the parents or elders, when returning from a journey, the children being told
that it has been taken away from the hare.

In the shadow-pictures made on the wall for the amusement of children the rabbit again appears,
and the hare figures also in children's games.

Squirrel.

According to the belief of certain Indians of Vancouver Island, there once lived "a monstrous
old woman with wolfish teeth, and finger-nails like claws." She used to entice away little
children whom she afterwards ate up. One day a mother, who was about to lose her child thus,
cried out to the spirits to save her child in any way or form. Her prayer was answered, and
"The Great Good Father, looking down upon the Red Mother, pities her; lo! the child's soft
brown skin turns to fur, and there slides from the ogress's grip, no child, but the happiest,
liveliest, merriest little squirrel of all the West,--but bearing, as its descendants still
bear, those four dark lines along the back that show where the cruel claws ploughed into it
escaping" (396. III. 52-54).

Elsewhere, also, the squirrel is associated with childhood.

Seals.

Those noble and indefatigable missionaries, the Moravians, have more than once been harshly
criticised in certain quarters, because, in their versions of the Bible, in the Eskimo language,
they saw fit to substitute for some of the figurative expressions employed in our rendering,
others more intelligible to the aborigines. In the New Testament Christ is termed the "Lamb
of God," but since, in the Arctic home of the Innuit, shepherds and sheep are alike unknown,
the translators, by a most felicitous turn of language, rendered the phrase by "little seal
of God," a figure that appealed at once to every Eskimo, young and old, men and women; for
what sheep were to the dwellers on the Palestinian hillsides, seals are to this northernmost
of human races. Rink tells us that the Eskimo mother "reserves the finest furs for her new-born
infant," while the father keeps for it "the daintiest morsels from the chase," and, "to make
its eyes beautiful, limpid, and bright, he gives it seal's eyes to eat" (523. 37).

Fish.

Mrs. Bramhall tells us how in Japan the little children, playing about the temples, feed the
pet fishes of the priests in the temple-lake. At the temple of the Mikado, at Kioto, she saw
"six or eight little boys and girls ... lying at full length on the bank of the pretty lake."
The fishes were called up by whistling, and the children fed them by holding over the water
their open hands full of crumbs (189. 65). Other inhabitants of the sea and the waters of the
earth are brought into early relation with children.

Crabs and Crawfishes.

Among the Yeddavanad, of the Congo, a mother tells her children concerning three kinds of crabs:
"Eat kallali, and you will become a clever man; eat hullali, and you will become as brave as
a tiger; eat mandalli, and you will become master of the house" (449. 297).

In the Chippeway tale of the "Raccoon and the Crawfish," after the former, by pretending to
be dead, has first attracted to him and then eaten all the crawfish, we are told:--

"While he was engaged with the broken limbs, a little female crawfish, carrying her infant
sister on her back, came up seeking her relations. Finding they had all been devoured by the
raccoon, she resolved not to survive the destruction of her kindred, but went boldly up to
the enemy, and said: 'Here, Aissibun (Raccoon), you behold me and my little sister. We are
all alone. You have eaten up our parents and all our friends. Eat us, too!' And she continued
to say: 'Eat us, too! Aissibun amoon, Aissibun amoon!' The raccoon was ashamed. 'No!' said
he,' I have banqueted on the largest and fattest; I will not dishonour myself with such little
prey.' At this moment, Manabozbo [the culture-hero or demi-god of these Indians] happened to
pass by. 'Tyau,' said he to the raccoon, 'thou art a thief and an unmerciful dog. Get thee
up into trees, lest I change thee into one of these same worm-fish; for thou wast thyself a
shell-fish originally, and I transformed thee.' Manabozho then took up the little supplicant
crawfish and her infant sister, and cast them into the stream. 'There,' said he, 'you may dwell.
Hide yourselves under the stones; and hereafter you shall be playthings for little children'"
(440. 411, 412).

Games.

The imitation of animals, their movements, habits, and peculiarities in games and dances, also
makes the child acquainted at an early age with these creatures.

In the section on "Bird and Beast," appropriately headed by the words of the good St. Francis
of Assisi--"My brother, the hare, ... my sisters, the doves,"--Mr. Newell notices some of the
children's games in which the actions, cries, etc., of animals are imitated. Such are "My Household,"
"Frog-Pond," "Bloody Tom," "Blue-birds and Yellow-birds," "Ducks fly" (313. 115).

Doves.

Not at Dodona and in Arcadia alone has the dove been associated with religion, its oracles,
its mysteries, and its symbolism. In the childhood of the world, according to the great Hebrew
cosmologist, "the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters," and a later bard and seer
of our own race reanimated the ancient figure of his predecessor in all its pristine strength,
when in, the story of Paradise lost and found again, he told how, at the beginning, the creative
spirit

  "Dove-like sat brooding o'er the vast abyss."

In the childhood of the race, it was a dove that bore to the few survivors of the great flood
the branch of olive, token that the anger of Jahveh was abated, and that the waters no longer
covered the whole earth. In the childhood of Christianity, when its founder was baptized of
John in the river Jordan, "Lo, the heavens were opened unto Him, and the Spirit of God descended
like a dove, and lighted on Him,"--and the "Heavenly Dove" Still beautifies the imagery of
oratory and song, the art and symbolism of the great churches, its inheritors. In the childhood
of man the individual, the dove has also found warm welcome. At the moment of the birth of
St. Austrebertha (630-704 A.D.), as the quaint legend tells, "the chamber was filled with a
heavenly odour, and a white dove, which hovered awhile above the house, flew into the chamber
and settled on the head of the infant," and when Catherine of Racconigi (1486-1547 A.D.) was
only five years old "a dove, white as snow, flew into her chamber and lighted on her shoulder";
strange to relate, however, the infant first took the bird for a tool of Satan, not a messenger
of God. When St. Briocus of Cardigan, a Welsh saint of the sixth century, "was receiving the
communion for the first time, a dove, white as snow, settled on his head, and the abbot knew
that the young boy was a chosen vessel of honour" (191. 107, 108).

In a Swedish mother's hymn occurs the following beautiful thought:--

  "There sitteth a dove so white and fair,
    All on the lily spray,
  And she listeneth how to Jesus Christ
    The little children pray.

  "Lightly she spreads her friendly wings,
    And to Heaven's gate hath sped,
  And unto the Father in Heaven she bears
    The prayers which the children have said.

  "And back she comes from Heaven's gate,
    And brings, that dove so mild,
  From the Father in Heaven, who hears her speak,
    A blessing on every child.

  "Then, children, lift up a pious prayer!
    It hears whatever you say;
  That heavenly dove so white and fair,
    All on the lily spray" (379. 255).

The bird-messenger of childhood finds its analogue in the beliefs of some primitive tribes
that certain birds have access to the spirit-land, and are the bearers of tidings from the
departed. Into the same category fall the ancient practice of releasing a dove (or some other
winged creature) at the moment of death of a human being, as a means of transport of his soul
to the Elysian fields, and the belief that the soul itself took its flight in the form and
semblance of a dove (509. 257).

The Haida Indians, of British Columbia, think that, "in the land of light, children often transform
themselves into bears, seals, and birds," and wonderful tales are told of their adventures.

Hartley Coleridge found for the guardian angel of infancy, no apter figure than that of the dove:--

  "Sweet infant, whom thy brooding parents love
  For what thou art, and what they hope to see thee,
  Unhallow'd sprites, and earth-born phantoms flee thee;
  Thy soft simplicity, a hovering dove,
  That still keeps watch from blight and bane to free thee,
  With its weak wings, in peaceful care outspread,
  Fanning invisibly thy pillow'd head,
  Strikes evil powers with reverential dread,
  Beyond the sulphurous bolts of fabled Jove,
  Or whatsoe'er of amulet or charm
  Fond ignorance devised to save poor souls from harm."

Perhaps the sweetest touch of childhood in all Latin literature is that charming passage in
Horace (Carm. Lib. III. 4):--

  "Me fabulosa Vulture in Apulo,
  Nutrices extra limen Apulia,
  Ludo fatigatoque somno
  Fronde nova puerum palumbes
  Texere,"

which Milman thus translates:--

  "The vagrant infant on Mount Vultur's side,
   Beyond my childhood's nurse, Apulia's bounds,
   By play fatigued and sleep,
   Did the poetic doves
   With young leaves cover."

The amativeness of the dove has lent much to the figurative language of that second golden
age, that other Eden where love is over all. Shenstone, in his beautiful pastoral, says:--

 "I have found out a gift for my fair;
  I have found where the wood-pigeons breed,"

and the "love of the turtle," "billing and cooing," are now transferred to human affection.
Venus, the goddess of love, and the boy-god Cupid ride in a chariot drawn by doves, which birds
were sacred to the sea-born child of Uranus. In the springtime, when "the voice of the turtle
is heard in the land," then "a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love." If, from
the sacred oaks of Dodona, to the first Greeks, the doves disclosed the oracles of Jove, so
has "the moan of doves in immemorial elms" divulged to generation after generation of lovers
the mission of his son of the bow and quiver.

Robin.

What the wood-pigeon was to Horace, the robin-redbreast has been to the children of old England.
In the celebrated ballad of the "Children in the Wood", we are told that, after their murder
by the cruel uncle,--

  "No burial these pretty babes
  Of any man receives,
  Till Robin Redbreast piously
  Did cover them with leaves."

Dr. Robert Fletcher (447) has shown to what extent the redbreast figures in early English poetry,
and the belief in his pious care for the dead and for children is found in Germany, Brittany,
and other parts of the continent of Europe. In England the robin is the children's favourite
bird, and rhymes and stories in his honour abound,--most famous is the nursery song, "Who killed
Cock Robin?"

A sweet legend of the Greek Church tells us that "Our Lord used to feed the robins round his
mother's door, when a boy; moreover, that the robin never left the sepulchre till the Resurrection,
and, at the Ascension, joined in the angels' song." The popular imagination, before which the
robin appears as "the pious bird with the scarlet breast," found no difficulty in assigning
a cause for the colour of its plumage. One legend, current amongst Catholic peoples, has it
that "the robin was commissioned by the Deity to carry a drop of water to the souls of unbaptized
infants in hell, and its breast was singed in piercing the flames." In his poem The Robin,
Whittier has versified the story from a Welsh source.

Another popular story, however, relates that when Christ was on His way to Calvary, toiling
beneath the burden of the cross, the robin, in its kindness, plucked a thorn from the crown
that oppressed His brow, and the blood of the divine martyr dyed the breast of the bird, which
ever since has borne the insignia of its charity. A variant of the same legend makes the thorn
wound the bird itself and its own blood dye its breast.

According to a curious legend of the Chippeway Indians, a stern father once made his young
son undergo the fasting necessary to obtain a powerful guardian spirit. After bravely holding
out for nine days, he appealed to his father to allow him to give up, but the latter would
not hear of it, and by the eleventh day the boy lay as one dead. At dawn the next morning,
the father came with the promised food. Looking through a hole in the lodge, he saw that his
son had painted his breast and shoulders as far as he could reach with his hands. When he went
into the lodge, he saw him change into a beautiful bird and fly away. Such was the origin of
the first robin-redbreast (440. 210). Whittier, in his poem, How the Robin Came, has turned
the tale of the Red Men into song.

Stork.

The Lieblingsvogel of German children is the stork, who, as parents say, brings them their
little brothers and sisters, and who is remembered in countless folk and children's rhymes.
The mass of child-literature in which the stork figures is enormous. Ploss has a good deal
to say of this famous bird, and Carstens has made it the subject of a brief special study,--"The
Stork as a Sacred Bird in Folk-Speech and Child-Song" (198). The latter says: "It is with a
sort of awe (Ehrfurcht) that the child looks upon this sacred bird, when, returning with the
spring he settles down on the roof, throwing back his beak and greeting the new home with a
flap of his wings; or when, standing now on one foot, now on the other, he looks so solemnly
at things, that one would think he was devoutly meditating over something or other; or, again,
when, on his long stilt-like legs, he gravely strides over the meadows. With great attention
we listened as children to the strange tales and songs which related to this sacred bird, as
our mother told them to us and then added with solemn mien, 'where he keeps himself during
the winter is not really known,' or, 'he flies away over the Lebermeer, whither no human being
can follow.' 'Storks are enchanted (verwunscht) men,' my mother used to say, and in corroboration
told the following story: 'Once upon a time a stork broke a leg. The owner of the house upon
which the stork had its nest, interested himself in the unfortunate creature, took care of
it and attended to it, and soon the broken leg was well again. Some years later, it happened
that the kind-hearted man, who was a mariner, was riding at anchor near the North Sea Coast,
and the anchor stuck fast to the bottom, so that nothing remained but for the sailor to dive
into the depths of the sea. This he did, and lo! he found the anchor clinging to a sunken church-steeple.
He set it free, but, out of curiosity, went down still deeper, and far down below came to a
magnificent place, the inhabitants of which made him heartily welcome. An old man addressed
him and informed him that he had been the stork whose leg the sailor had once made well, and
that the latter was now in the real home of the storks.'" Carstens compares this story with
that of Frau Holle, whose servant the stork, who brings the little children out of the child-fountain
of the Gotterburg, would seem to be. In North Germany generally the storks are believed to
be human beings in magical metamorphosis, and hence no harm must be done them. Between the
household, upon whose roof the stork takes up his abode, and the family of the bird, a close
relation is thought to subsist. If his young ones die, so will the children of the house; if
no eggs are laid, no children will be born that year; if a stork is seen to light upon a house,
it is regarded by the Wends of Lusatia as an indication that a child will be born there the
same year; in Switzerland the peasant woman about to give birth to a child chants a brief appeal
to the stork for aid. A great variety of domestic, meteorological, and other superstitions
are connected with the bird, its actions, and mode of life. The common Low German name of the
stork, Adebar, is said to mean "luck-bringer"; in Dutch, he is called ole vaer, "old father."
After him the wood-anemone is called in Low German Hannoterblume, "stork's-flower." An interesting
tale is "The Storks," in Hans Christian Andersen.

Bird-Language.

In the Golden Age, as the story runs, men were able to hold converse with the birds of the
air and the beasts of the field, nor had a diversity of dialects yet sprung up among them.
In Eden of old the whole world was of one tongue and one speech; nay more, men talked with
the gods and with God. Many legends of primitive peoples there are telling how confusion first
arose,--every continent has its Babel-myth,--and how men came at last to be unable to comprehend
each other's speech. The Indians of Nova Scotia say that this occurred when Gluskap, the culture-hero
of the Micmacs, after giving a parting banquet to all creatures of earth, sea, and air, "entered
his canoe in the Basin of Minas, and, sailing westward in the moonlight, disappeared. Then
the wolves, bears, and beavers, who had before been brothers, lost the gift of common language,
and birds and beasts, hating one another, fled into the distant forests, where, to this day,
the wolf howls and the loon utters its sad notes of woe" (418. 185).

The Mexican legend of the deluge states that the vessel in which were Coxcox,--the Mexican
Noah,--and his wife, Xochiquetzal, stranded on a peak of Colhuacan. To them were born fifteen
sons, who, however, all came into the world dumb, but a dove gave them fifteen tongues, and
thence are descended the fifteen languages and tribes of Anahuac (509. 517).

In later ages, among other peoples, the knowledge of the forgotten speech of the lower creation
was possessed by priests and seers alone, or ascribed to innocent little children,--some of
the power and wisdom of the bygone Golden Age of the race is held yet to linger with the golden
age of childhood. In the beautiful lines,--

  "O du Kindermund, o du Kindermund,
  Unbewuszter Weisheit froh,
  Vogelsprachekund, vogelsprachekund,
  Wie Salamo!"

the poet Ruckert attributes to the child that knowledge of the language of birds, which the
popular belief of the East made part of the lore of the wise King Solomon. Weil (547. 191)
gives the Mussulman version of the original legend:--

"In him [Solomon] David placed implicit confidence, and was guided by him in the most difficult
questions, for he had heard, in the night of his [Solomon's] birth, the angel Gabriel exclaim,
'Satan's dominion is drawing to its close, for this night a child is born, to whom Iblis and
all his hosts, together with all his descendants, shall be subject. The earth, air, and water
with all the creatures that live therein, shall be his servants. He shall be gifted with nine-tenths
of all the wisdom and knowledge which Allah has granted to mankind, and understand not only
the languages of men, but those also of beasts and birds.'" Some recollection of this appears
in Ecclesiastes (x. 20), where we read, "For a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that
which hath wings shall tell the matter," and in our own familiar saying "a little bird told
me," as well as in the Bulbul-hezar or talking bird of the Arabian Nights, and its imitation
"the little green bird who tells everything," in the Fairy Tales of the Comtesse d'Aunoy. The
interpretation of the cries of birds and animals into human speech has also some light thrown
upon it from this source. Various aspects of this subject have been considered by Hopf (474),
Swainson (539), Treichel (372), Brunk, Grimm (462). The use of certain birds as oracles by
children is well known. A classical example is the question of the Low German child:--

  "Kukuk van Hewen,
    "Wi lank sail ik lewen?'
  ["Cuckoo of Heaven,
    How long am I to live?"]

Of King Solomon we are told: "He conversed longest with the birds, both on account of their
delicious language, which he knew as well as his own, as also for the beautiful proverbs that
are current among them." The interpretation of the songs of the various birds is given as follows:--

The cook: "Ye thoughtless men, remember your Creator." The dove: "All things pass away; Allah
alone is eternal." The eagle: "Let our life be ever so long, yet it must end in death." The
hoopoo: "He that shows no mercy, shall not obtain mercy." The kata: "Whosoever can keep silence
goes through life most securely." The nightingale: "Contentment is the greatest happiness."
The peacock: "As thou judgest, so shalt thou be judged." The pelican: "Blessed be Allah in
Heaven and Earth." The raven: "The farther from mankind, the pleasanter." The swallow: "Do
good, for you shall be rewarded hereafter." The syrdak: "Turn to Allah, O ye sinners." The
turtle-dove: "It were better for many a creature had it never been born."

The King, it appears, chose the hoopoo and the cock for his companions, and appointed the doves
to dwell in the temple which he was to erect (547. 200, 201). In fairy-tale and folk-lore bird-speech
constantly appears. A good example is the story "Wat man warm kann, wenn man blot de Vageln
richti verstan deit," included by Klaus Groth in his Quickborn.

In the Micmac legend of the Animal Tamers, by collecting the "horns" of the various animals
a youthful hero comes to understand their language (521. 347).

In the Middle Ages the understanding of the language of birds, their Latin, as it was called,
ranked as the highest achievement of human learning, the goal of wisdom and knowledge, and
the thousand rhyming questions asked of birds by children to-day are evidence of a time when
communication with them was deemed possible. Some remembrance of this also lingers in not a
few of the lullabies and nursery-songs of a type corresponding to the following from Schleswig-Holstein:--

  "Hor mal, lutje Kind
  Wo dut lutje Vagel singt
  Baben in de Hai!
  Loop, lut Kind, un hal mi dat lut Ei."

Among the child-loving Eskimo we find many tales in which children and animals are associated;
very common are stories of children metamorphosed into birds and beasts. Turner has obtained
several legends of this sort from the Eskimo of the Ungava district in Labrador. In one of
these, wolves are the gaunt and hungry children of a woman who had not wherewithal to feed
her numerous progeny, and so they were turned into ravening beasts of prey; in another the
raven and the loon were children, whom their father sought to paint, and the loon's spots are
evidence of the attempt to this day; in a third the sea-pigeons or guillemots are children
who were changed into these birds for having scared away some seals. The prettiest story, however,
is that of the origin of the swallows: Once there were some children who were wonderfully wise,
so wise indeed that they came to be called zulugagnak, "like the raven," a bird that knows
the past and the future. One day they were playing on the edge of a cliff near the village,
and building toy-houses, when they were changed into birds. They did not forget their childish
occupation, however, and, even to this day, the swallows come to the cliff to build their nests
or houses of mud,--"even the raven does not molest them, and Eskimo children love to watch
them" (544. 262, 263). From time immemorial have the life and actions of the brute creation
been associated with the first steps of education and learning in the child.

CHAPTER XIII.

CHILD-LIFE AND EDUCATION IN GENERAL.

  The mother's heart is the child's school-room.--Henry Ward
  Beecher.

  The father is known from the child.--German Proverb.

  Learn young, learn fair,
  Learn auld, learn mair.
  --Scotch Proverb.

  We bend the tree when it is young.--Bulgarian Proverb.

  Fools and bairns should na see things half done.
  --Scotch Proverb.

  No one is born master.--Italian Proverb.

Mother as Teacher.

Nihil est in intellectu quod non prius in sensu is a favourite dictum of philosophy; primitive
peoples might, perhaps, be credited with a somewhat different crystallization of thought: nihil
est in puero quod non prius in parenti, "nothing is in the child which was not before in the
parent," for belief in prenatal influence of parent upon child is widely prevalent. The following
remarks, which were written of the semi-civilized peoples of Annam and Tonquin, may stand,
with suitable change of terms, for very many barbarous and savage races:--

"The education of the children begins even before they come into the world. The prospective
mother is at once submitted to a kind of material and moral regime sanctioned by custom. Gross
viands are removed from her table, and her slightest movements are regarded that they may be
regular and majestic. She is expected to listen to the reading of good authors, to music and
moral chants, and to attend learned societies, in order that she may fortify her mind by amusements
of an elevated character. And she endeavours, by such discipline, to assure to the child whom
she is about to bring into the world, intelligence, docility, and fitness for the duties imposed
by social life" (518. XXXI. 629).

Among primitive peoples these ceremonies, dietings, doctorings, tabooings, number legion, as
may be read in Ploss and Zmigrodzki.

The influence of the mother upon her child, beginning long before birth, continued in some
parts of the world until long after puberty. The Spartan mothers even preserved "a power over
their sons when arrived at manhood," and at the puberty-dance, by which the Australian leaves
childhood behind to enter upon man's estate, his significant cry is: "My mother sees me no
more!" (398. 153). Among the Chinese, "at the ceremony of going out of childhood, the passage
from boyhood into manhood, the goddess of children 'Mother,' ceases to have the superintendence
of the boy or girl, and the individual comes under the government of the gods in general."

That women are teachers born, even the most uncultured of human races have not failed to recognize,
and the folk-faith in their ministrations is world-wide and world-old; for, as Mrs. Browning
tells us:--

  "Women know
  The way to rear up children (to be just);
  They know a simple, merry, tender knack
  Of tying sashes, fitting baby-shoes,
  And stringing pretty words that make no sense,
  And kissing full sense into empty words;
  Which things are corals to cut life upon,
  Although such trifles."

Intellectually, as well as physically,--as the etymology of the name seems to indicate,--the
mother is the "former" of her child. As Henry Ward Beecher has well said, "the mother's heart
is the child's school-room." Well might the Egyptian mother-goddess say (167. 261): "I am the
mother who shaped thy beauties, who suckled thee with milk; I give thee with my milk festal
things, that penetrate thy limbs with life, strength, and youth; I make thee to become the--great
ruler of Egypt, lord of the space which the sun circles round." In the land of the Pharaohs
they knew in some dim fashion that "the hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the
world."

The extensive role of the mother, as a teacher of the practical arts of life, may be seen from
the book of Professor Mason (113). Language, religion, the social arts, house-building, skin-dressing,
weaving, spinning, animal-domestication, agriculture, are, with divers primitive peoples, since
they have in great part originated with her, or been promoted chiefly by her efforts, left
to woman as teacher and instructor, and well has the mother done her work all over the globe.

The function of the mother as priestess--for woman has been the preserver, as, to so large
an extent, she has been the creator, of religion--has been exercised age after age, and among
people after people. Henry Ward Beecher has said: "Every mother is a priestess ordained by
God Himself," and Professor Mason enlarges the same thought: "Scarcely has the infant mind
begun to think, ere this perpetual priestess lights the fires of reverence and keeps them ever
burning, like a faithful vestal" (112. 12).

Though women and mothers have often been excluded from the public or the secret ceremonials
and observations of religion, the household in primitive and in modern times has been the temple,
of whose penetralia they alone have been the ministers.

Imitation.

Tarde, in his monograph on the "Laws of Imitation," has shown the great influence exerted among
peoples of all races, of all grades and forms of culture, by imitation, conscious or unconscious,--a
factor of the highest importance even at the present day and among those communities of men
most advanced and progressive. Speaking a little too broadly, perhaps, he says (541. 15):--

"All the resemblances, of social origin, noticed in the social world are the direct or indirect
result of imitation in all its forms,--custom, fashion, sympathy, obedience, instruction, education,
naive or deliberate imitation. Hence the excellence of that modern method which explains doctrines
or institutions by their history. This tendency can only be generalized. Great inventors and
great geniuses do sometimes stumble upon the same thing together, but these coincidences are
very rare. And when they do really occur, they always have their origin in a fund of common
instruction upon which, independent of one another, the two authors of the same invention have
drawn; and this fund consists of a mass of traditions of the past, of experiments, rude or
more or less arranged, and transmitted imitatively by language, the great vehicle of all imitations."

In her interesting article on "Imitation in Children," Miss Haskell observes: "That the imitative
faculty is what makes the human being educable, that it is what has made progressive civilization
possible, has always been known by philosophical educators. The energy of the child must pass
from potentiality to actuality, and it does so by the path of imitation because this path offers
the least resistance or the greatest attraction, or perhaps because there is no other road.
Whatever new and striking things he sees in the movements or condition of objects about him,
provided he already has the experience necessary to apperceive this particular thing, he imitates"
(260. 31).

In the pedagogy of primitive peoples imitation has an extensive role to play. Of the Twana
Indians, of the State of Washington, Rev. Mr. Eells observes: "Children are taught continually,
from youth until grown, to mimic the occupations of their elders." They have games of ball,
jumping and running races, and formerly "the boys played at shooting with bows and arrows at
a mark, and with spears, throwing at a mark, with an equal number of children on each side,
and sometimes the older ones joined in." Now, however, "the'boys mimic their seniors in the
noise and singing and gambling, but without the gambling." The girls play with dolls, and sometimes
"the girls and boys both play in canoes, and stand on half of a small log, six feet long and
a foot wide, and paddle around in the water with a small stick an inch in thickness; and, in
fact, play at most things which they see their seniors do, both whites and Indians" (437. 90,
91). Concerning the Seminoles of Florida, we are told: "The baby, well into the world, learns
very quickly that he is to make his own way through it as best he may. His mother is prompt
to nourish him, and solicitous in her care for him if he falls ill; but, as far as possible,
she goes her own way and leaves the little fellow to go his." Very early in life the child
learns to help and to imitate its elders. "No small amount," Mr. MacCauley tells us, "of the
labour in a Seminole household is done by children, even as young as four years of age. They
can stir the soup while it is boiling; they can aid in kneading the dough for bread; they can
wash the 'koonti' root, and even pound it; they can watch and replenish the fire; they contribute
in this and many other small ways to the necessary work of the home" (496. 497, 498).

Of the Indians of British Guiana, Mr. im Thurn reports: "As soon as the children can run about,
they are left almost to themselves; or, rather, they begin to mimic their parents. As with
the adults, so with the children. Just as the grown-up woman works incessantly, while the men
alternately idle and hunt, so the boys run wild, playing not such concerted games as in other
parts of the world more usually form child's play, but only with mimic bows and arrows; but
the girls, as soon as they can walk, begin to help the older women. Even the youngest girl
can peel a few cassava roots, watch a pot on the fire, or collect and carry home a few sticks
of firewood. The games of the boy are all such as train him to fish and hunt when he grows
up; the girl's occupations teach her woman's work" (477. 219). The children imitate their elders
in other ways also, for in nearly every Indian house are to be seen toy vessels of clay; for
"while the Indian women of Guiana are shaping the clay, their children, imitating them, make
small pots and goglets" (477. 298). And in like manner have been born, no doubt, among other
peoples, some of the strange freaks of art which puzzle the connoisseurs in the museums of
Europe and America.

Mr. Powers, speaking of the domestic economy of the Achomawi Indians of California, says: "An
Achomawi mother seldom teaches her daughters any of the arts of barbaric housekeeping before
their marriage. They learn them by imitation and experiment after they grow old enough to perceive
the necessity thereof" (519. 271). This peculiar neglect, however, is not entirely absent from
our modern civilization, for until very recently no subject has been so utterly overlooked
as the proper training of young girls for their future duties as mothers and housekeepers.
The Achomawi, curiously enough, have the following custom, which helps, no doubt, the wife
whose education has been so imperfect: "The parents are expected to establish a young couple
in their lodge, provide them with the needful basketry, and furnish them with cooked food for
some months, which indulgent parents sometimes continue for a year or even longer; so that
the young people have a more real honeymoon than is vouchsafed to most civilized people."

Among the Battas of Sumatra, "It is one of the morning duties of women and girls, even down
to children of four and five years old, to bring drinking-water in the gargitis, a water-vessel
made of a thick stalk of bamboo. The size and strength of growing girls are generally measured
by the number of gargitis they can carry" (518. XXII. 110).

Of the Kaffir children Theal informs us: "At a very early age they commence trials of skill
against each other in throwing knobbed sticks and imitation assegais. They may often be seen
enjoying this exercise in little groups, those of the same age keeping together, for there
is no greater tyrant in the world than a big Kaffir boy over his younger fellows; when above
nine or ten years old they practise sham-fighting with sticks; an imitation hunt is another
of their boyish diversions" (543. 220).

Among the Apaches, as we learn from Reclus: "The child remains with its mother until it can
pluck certain fruits for itself, and has caught a rat by its own unaided efforts. After this
exploit, it goes and comes as it lists, is free and independent, master of its civil and political
rights, and soon lost in the main body of the horde" (523. 131).

On the Andaman Islands, "little boys hunt out swarms of bees in the woods and drive them away
by fire. They are also expected regularly to collect wood." From their tenth year they are
"accustomed to use little bows and arrows, and often attain great skill in shooting." The girls
"seek among the coral-reefs and in the swamps to catch little fish in hand-nets." The Solomon
Islands boy, as soon as he can walk a little, goes along with his elders to hunt and fish (326.
I. 6). Among the Somali, of northeastern Africa, the boys are given small spears when ten or
twelve years old and are out guarding the milk-camels (481 (1891). 163).

Of the Eskimo of Baffin Land, Dr. Boas tells us that the children, "when about twelve years
old, begin to help their parents; the girls sewing and preparing skins, the boys accompanying
their fathers in hunting expeditions" (402. 566). Mr. Powers records that he has seen a Wailakki
Indian boy of fourteen "run a rabbit to cover in ten minutes, split a stick fine at one end,
thrust it down the hole, twist it into its scut, and pull it out alive" (519. 118).

Among the games and amusements of the Andamanese children, of whom he says "though not borrowed
from aliens, their pastimes, in many instances, bear close resemblance to those in vogue among
children in this and other lands; notably is this the case with regard to those known to us
as blind-man's buff, leap-frog, and hide-and-seek,"--Mr. Man enumerates the following: mock
pig-hunting (played after dark); mock turtle-catching (played in the sea); going after the
Evil Spirit of the Woods; swinging by means of long stout creepers; swimming-races (sometimes
canoe-races); pushing their way with rapidity through the jungle; throwing objects upwards,
or skimming through the air; playing at "duck-and-drakes"; shooting at moving objects; wrestling
on the sand; hunting small crabs and fish and indulging in sham banquets, comparable to the
"doll's feast" with us; making miniature canoes and floating them about in the water (498. 165).

Education of Boys and Girls.

With the Dakota Indians, according to Mr. Riggs, the grandfather and grandmother are often
the principal teachers of the child. Under the care of the father and grandfather the boy learns
to shoot, hunt, and fish, is told tales of war and daring exploits, and "when he is fifteen
or sixteen joins the first war-party and comes back with an eagle feather in his head, if he
is not killed and scalped by the enemy." Among the amusements he indulges in are foot-races,
horse-racing, ball-playing, etc. Another branch of his education is thus described: "In the
long winter evenings, while the fire burns brightly in the centre of the lodge, and the men
are gathered in to smoke, he hears the folk-lore and legends of his people from the lips of
the older men. He learns to sing the love-songs and the war-songs of the generations gone by.
There is no new path for him to tread, but he follows in the old ways. He becomes a Dakota
of the Dakota. His armour is consecrated by sacrifices and offerings and vows. He sacrifices
and prays to the stone god, and learns to hold up the pipe to the so-called Great Spirit. He
is killed and made alive again, and thus is initiated into the mysteries and promises of the
Mystery Dance. He becomes a successful hunter and warrior, and what he does not know is not
worth knowing for a Dakota. His education is finished. If he has not already done it, he can
now demand the hand of one of the beautiful maidens of the village" (524. 209, 210).

Under the care and oversight of the mother and grandmother the girl is taught the elements
of household economy, industrial art, and agriculture. Mr. Biggs thus outlines the early education
of woman among these Indians: "She plays with her 'made child,' or doll, just as children in
other lands do. Very soon she learns to take care of the baby; to watch over it in the lodge,
or carry it on her back while the mother is away for wood or dressing buffalo-robes. Little
girl as she is, she is sent to the brook or lake for water. She has her little work-bag with
awl and sinew, and learns to make small moccasins as her mother makes large ones. Sometimes
she goes with her mother to the wood and brings home her little bundle of sticks. When the
camp moves, she has her small pack as her mother carries the large one, and this pack is sure
to grow larger as her years increase. When the corn is planting, the little girl has her part
to perform. If she cannot use the hoe yet, she can at least gather off the old corn-stalks.
Then the garden is to be watched while the god-given maize is growing. And when the harvesting
comes, the little girl is glad for the corn-roasting." And so her young life runs on. She learns
bead-work and ornamenting with porcupine quills, embroidering with ribbons, painting, and all
the arts of personal adornment, which serve as attractions to the other sex. When she marries,
her lot and her life (Mr. Riggs says) are hard, for woman is much less than man with these
Dakotas (524. 210).

More details of girl-life among savage and primitive peoples are to be found in the pages of
Professor Mason (113. 207-211). In America, the education varied from what the little girl
could pick up at her mother's side between her third and thirteenth years, to the more elaborate
system of instruction in ancient Mexico, where, "annexed to the temples were large buildings
used as seminaries for girls, a sort of aboriginal Wellesley or Vassar" (113 208).

Games and Plays.

In the multifarious games of children, echoes, imitations, re-renderings of the sober life
of their elders and of their ancestors of the long ago, recur again and again. The numerous
love games, which Mr. Newell (313. 39-62) and Miss Gomme (243) enumerate, such as "Knights
of Spain," "Three kings," "Here comes a Duke a-roving," "Tread, tread the Green Grass," "I'll
give to you a Paper of Pins," "There she stands a lovely Creature," "Green Grow the Rushes,
O!" "The Widow with Daughters to marry," "Philander's March," "Marriage," etc., corresponding
to many others all over the globe, evidence the social instincts of child-hood as well as the
imitative tendencies of youth.

Under "Playing at Work" (313. 80-92), Mr. Newell has classed a large number of children's games
and songs, some of which now find their representatives in the kindergarten, this education
of the child by itself having been so modified as to form part of the infantile curriculum
of study. Among such games are: "Threading the Needle," "Draw a Bucket of Water," "Here I Brew
and here I Bake," "Here we come gathering Nuts of May," "When I was a Shoemaker," "Do, do,
pity my Case," "As we go round the Mulberry Bush," "Who'll be the Binder?" "Oats, Pease, Beans,
and Barley grows." Mr. Newell includes in this category, also, that well-known dance, the "Virginia
Reel," which he interprets as an imitation of weaving, something akin to the "Hemp-dressers'
Dance," of the time of George III., in England.

In a recent interesting and valuable essay, "Education by Plays and Games," by Mr. G. E. Johnson,
of Clark University,--an effort "to present somewhat more correctly than has been done before,
the educational value of play, and to suggest some practical applications to the work of education
in the grades above the kindergarten,"--we have presented to us a list of some five hundred
games, classified according to their value for advancing mental or physical education, for
cultivating and strengthening the various faculties of mind and body. These games have also
been arranged by Mr. Johnson, into such classes and divisions as might be held to correspond
to the needs and necessities of the pupils in each of the eight grades above the kindergarten.
Of the educational value of play and of "playing at work," there can be no doubt in the mind
of any one at all acquainted with the history of the individual and the history of the race.
As Mr. Johnson justly observes (269.100): "The field of the study of play is very wide; the
plays are well-nigh infinite, and as varied as life itself. No one can estimate the value of
them. Given right toys and surroundings, the young child has an almost perfect school. It is
marvellous how well he learns, Preyer does not overestimate the facts when he says the child
in the first three or four years of his life learns as much as the student in his entire university
course. In the making of mud pies and doll dresses, sand-pile farms and miniature roads, tiny
dams and water-wheels, whittled-out boats, sleds, dog-harnesses, and a thousand and one other
things, the child receives an accumulation of facts, a skill of hand, a trueness of eye, a
power of attention and quickness of perception; and in flying kites, catching trout, in pressing
leaves and gathering stones, in collecting stamps, and eggs, and butterflies, a culture also,
seldom appreciated by the parent or teacher."

Upon the banner of the youthful hosts might well be inscribed in hoc ludo vincemus. Yet there
is danger that the play-theory may be carried to excess. Mr. James L. Hughes, discussing "The
Educational Value of Play and the Recent Play-Movement in Germany," remarks: "The Germans had
the philosophy of play, the English had an intuitive love of play, and love is a greater impelling
force than philosophy. English young men never played in order to expand their lungs, to increase
their circulation, to develop their muscles in power and agility, to improve their figures,
to add grace to their bearing, to awaken and refine their intellectual powers, or to make them
manly, courageous, and chivalrous. They played enthusiastically for the mere love of play,
and all these, and other advantages resulted from their play" (265. 328).

Swimming is an art soon learned by the children of some primitive races. Mr. Man says of the
Andaman Islanders: "With the exception of some of the e.rem-tag.a-(inlanders), a knowledge
of the art of swimming is common to members of both sexes; the children even, learning almost
as soon as they can run, speedily acquire great proficiency" (498. 47).

Language.

With some primitive peoples the ideas as to language-study are pretty much on a par with those
prevalent in Europe at a date not so very remote from the present. Of the Kato Pomo Indians
of California, Mr. Powers remarks: "Like the Kai Pomo, their northern neighbours, they forbid
their squaws from studying languages--which is about the only accomplishment possible to them
save dancing--principally, it is believed, in order to prevent them from gadding about and
forming acquaintances in neighbouring valleys, for there is small virtue among the unmarried
of either sex. But the men pay considerable attention to linguistic studies, and there is seldom
one who cannot speak most of the Pomo dialects within a day's journey of his ancestral valley.
The chiefs, especially, devote no little care to the training of their sons as polyglot diplomatists;
and Robert White affirms that they frequently send them to reside several months with the chiefs
of contiguous valleys to acquire the dialects there in vogue" (519. 150).

Nevertheless, as Professor Mason observes, among primitive races, woman's share in the "invention,
dissemination, conservation, and metamorphosis of language" has been very great, and she has
been par excellence the teacher of language, as indeed she is to-day in our schools when expression
and savoir faire in speech, rather than deep philological learning and dry grammatical analysis,
have been the object of instruction.

Geography.

Much has been said and written about the wonderful knowledge of geography and topography possessed
by the Indian of America, and by other primitive peoples as well. The following passage from
Mr. Powers' account of the natives of California serves to explain some of this (519. 109):--

"Besides the coyote-stories with which gifted squaws amuse their children, and which are common
throughout this region, there prevails among the Mattoal a custom which might almost be dignified
with the name of geographical study. In the first place, it is necessary to premise that the
boundaries of all the tribes on Humboldt Bay, Eel River, Van Dusen's Fork, and in fact everywhere,
are marked with the greatest precision, being defined by certain creeks, canons, bowlders,
conspicuous trees, springs, etc., each one of which objects has its own individual name. It
is perilous for an Indian to be found outside of his tribal boundaries, wherefore it stands
him well in hand to make himself acquainted with the same early in life. Accordingly, the squaws
teach these things to their children in a kind of sing-song not greatly unlike that which was
the national furore some time ago in rural singing-schools, wherein they melodiously chanted
such pleasing items of information as this: 'California. Sacramento, on the Sacramento River.'
Over and over, time and again, they rehearse all these bowlders, etc., describing each minutely
and by name, with its surroundings. Then when the children are old enough, they take them around
to beat the bounds like Bumble the Beadle; and so wonderful is the Indian memory naturally,
and so faithful has been their instruction, that the little shavers generally recognize the
objects from the descriptions of them previously given by their mothers. If an Indian knows
but little of this great world more than pertains to boundary bush and bowlder, he knows his
own small fighting-ground infinitely better than any topographical engineer can learn it."

Mr. Powers' reference to "beating the bounds like Bumble the Beadle" is an apt one. Mr. Frederick
Sessions has selected as one of his Folk-Lore Topics the subject of "Beating the Bounds" (352),
and in his little pamphlet gives us much interesting information concerning the part played
by children in these performances. The author tells us: "One of the earliest of my childish
pleasures was seeing the Mayor and Corporation, preceded by Sword-bearer, Beadles, and Blue
Coat School boys, going in procession from one city boundary-stone to another, across the meadows
and the river, or over hedges and gardens, or anything else to which the perambulated border-line
took them. They were followed along the route by throngs of holiday makers. Many of the crowd,
and all the Blue boys, were provided with willow-wands, peeled, if I remember rightly, with
which each boundary mark was well flogged. The youngest boys were bumped against the 'city
stones.'" In the little town of Charlbury in Oxfordshire, "the perambulations seem to have
been performed mostly by boys, accompanied by one or more of their seniors." At Houghton, a
village near St. Ives in Huntingdonshire: "The bounds are still beaten triennially. They are
here marked by holes in some places, and by stones or trees in others. The procession starts
at one of the holes. Each new villager present is instructed in the position of this corner
of the boundary by having his head forcibly thrust into the hole, while he has to repeat a
sort of mumbo-jumbo prayer, and receives three whacks with a shovel. He pays a shilling for
his 'footing' (boys only pay sixpence), and then the forty or fifty villagers march off to
the opposite corner and repeat the process, except the monetary part, and regale themselves
with bread and cheese and beer, paid for by the farmers who now occupy any portion of the old
common lands."

In Russia, before the modern system of land-registration came into vogue, "all the boys of
adjoining Cossack village communes were 'collected and driven like flocks of sheep to the frontier,
whipped at each boundary-stone, and if, in after years two whipped lads, grown into men, disputed
as to the precise spot at which they had been castigated, then the oldest inhabitant carrying
a sacred picture from the church, led the perambulations, and acted as arbitrator."

Here also ought to be mentioned perhaps, as somewhat akin and reminiscent of like practices
among primitive peoples, "the blason populaire (as it is neatly called in French), in which
the inhabitants of each district or city are nicely ticketed off and distinguished by means
of certain abnormalities of feature or form, or certain mental peculiarities attributed to
them" (204.19). In parts of Hungary and Transylvania a somewhat similar practice is in vogue
(392 (1892). 128).

Story-Telling.

Some Indian children have almost the advantages of the modern home in the way of story-telling.
Clark informs us (420.109):--

"Some tribes have regular story-tellers, men who have devoted a great deal of time to learning
the myths and stories of their people, and who possess, in addition to a good memory, a vivid
imagination. The mother sends for one of these, and, having prepared a feast for him, she and
her little 'brood,' who are curled up near her, await the fairy stories of the dreamer, who,
after his feast and smoke, entertains them for hours. Many of these fanciful sketches or visions
are interesting and beautiful in their rich imagery, and have been at times given erroneous
positions in ethnological data."

Knortz refers in glowing terms to the adisoke-winini, or "storyteller" of the Chippeway Indians,
those gifted men, who entertain their fellows with the tales and legends of the race, and who
are not mere reciters, but often poets and transformers as well (Skizzen, 294).

So, too, among the Andaman Islanders, "certain mythic legends are related to the young by okopai-ads
[shamans], parents, and others, which refer to the supposed adventures or history of remote
ancestors, and though the recital not unfrequently evokes much mirth, they are none the less
accepted as veracious" (498. 95).

Morals.

Among some of the native tribes of California we meet with i-wa-musp, or "men-women" (519.
132). Among the Yuki, for example, there were men who dressed and acted like women, and "devoted
themselves to the instruction of the young by the narration of legends and moral tales." Some
of these, Mr. Powers informs us, "have been known to shut themselves up in the assembly-hall
for the space of a month, with brief intermissions, living the life of a hermit, and spending
the whole time in rehearsing the tribal-history in a sing-song monotone to all who chose to
listen."

Somewhat similar, without the hermit-life, appear to be the functions of the orators and "prophets"
of the Miwok and the peace-chiefs, or "shell-men," of the Pomo (519. 157, 352). Of the Indians
of the Pueblo of Tehua, Mr. Lummis, in his entertaining volume of fairy-tales, says: "There
is no duty to which a Pueblo child is trained in which he has to be content with the bare command,
'Do thus'; for each he learns a fairy- tale designed to explain how people first came to know
that it was right to do thus, and detailing the sad results which befell those who did otherwise."
The old men appear to be the storytellers, and their tales are told in a sort of blank verse
(302. 5).

Mr. Grinnell, in his excellent book about the Blackfeet,--one of the best books ever written
about the Indians,--gives some interesting details of child-life. Children are never whipped,
and "are instructed in manners as well as in other more general and more important matters."
188-191).

Of the Delaware Indians we are told that "when a mere boy the Indian lad would be permitted
to sit in the village councilhouse, and hear the assembled wisdom of the village or his tribe
discuss the affairs of state and expound the meaning of the keekg' (beads composing the wampum
belts).... In this way he early acquired maturity of thought, and was taught the traditions
of his people, and the course of conduct calculated to win him the praise of his fellows" (516.
43). This reminds us of the Roman senator who had his child set upon his knee during the session
of that great legislative and deliberative body.

Playthings and Dolls.

As Professor Mason has pointed out, the cradle is often the "play-house" of the child, and
is decked out to that end in a hundred ways (306. 162). Of the Sioux cradle, Catlin says:--"A
broad hoop of elastic wood passes around in front of the child's face to protect it in case
of a fall, from the front of which is suspended a little toy of exquisite embroidery for the
child to handle and amuse itself with. To this and other little trinkets hanging in front of
it, there are attached many little tinselled and tinkling things of the brightest colours to
amuse both the eyes and the ears of the child. While travelling on horseback, the arms of the
child are fastened under the bandages, so as not to be endangered if the cradle falls, and
when at rest they are generally taken out, allowing the infant to reach and amuse itself with
the little toys and trinkets that are placed before it and within its reach" (306. 202). In
like manner are "playthings of various kinds" hung to the awning of the birch-bark cradles
found in the Yukon region of Alaska. Of the Nez Perce, we read: "To the hood are attached medicine-bags,
bits of shell, haliotis perhaps, and the whole artistic genius of the mother is in play to
adorn her offspring." The old chronicler Lafiteau observed of the Indians of New France: "They
put over that half-circle [at the top of the cradle] little bracelets of porcelain and other
little trifles that the Latins call crepundia, which serve as an ornament and as playthings
to divert the child" (306. 167, 187, 207).

And so is it elsewhere in the world. Some of the beginnings of art in the race are due to the
mother's instinctive attempts to please the eyes and busy the hands of her tender offspring.
The children of primitive peoples have their dolls and playthings as do those of higher races.
In an article descriptive of the games and amusements of the Ute Indians, we read: "The boy
remains under maternal care until he is old enough to learn to shoot and engage in manly sports
and enjoyments. Indian children play, laugh, cry, and act like white children, and make their
own play-things from which they derive as much enjoyment as white children" (480. IV. 238).

Of the Seminole Indians of Florida, Mr. MacCauley says that among the children's games are
skipping and dancing, leap-frog, teetotums, building a merry-go-round, carrying a small make-believe
rifle of stick, etc. They also "sit around a small piece of land, and, sticking blades of grass
into the ground, name it a 'corn-field,'" and "the boys kill small birds in the bush with their
bows and arrows, and call it 'turkey-hunting.'" Moreover, they "have also dolls (bundles of
rags, sticks with bits of cloth wrapped around them, etc.), and build houses for them which
they call 'camps'" (496. 506).

Of the Indians of the western plains, Colonel Dodge says: "The little girls are very fond of
dolls, which their mothers make and dress with considerable skill and taste. Their baby houses
are miniature teepees, and they spend as much time and take as much pleasure in such play as
white girls" (432. 190). Dr. Boas tells us concerning the Eskimo of Baffin Land: "Young children
are always carried in their mothers' hoods, but when about a year and a half old they are allowed
to play on the bed, and are only carried by their mothers when they get too mischievous." The
same authority also says: "Young children play with, toys, sledges, kayaks, boats, bow and
arrows, and dolls. The last are made in the same way by all the tribes, a wooden body being
clothed with scraps of deerskin cut in the same way as the clothing of the men" (402. 568,
571). Mr. Murdoch has described at some length the dolls and toys of the Point Barrow Eskimo.
He remarks that "though several dolls and various suits of miniature clothing were made and
brought over for sale, they do not appear to be popular with the little girls." He did not
see a single girl playing with a doll, and thinks the articles collected may have been made
rather for sale than otherwise. Of the boys, Mr. Murdoch says: "As soon as a boy is able to
walk, his father makes him a little bow suited to his strength, with blunt arrows, with which
he plays with the other boys, shooting at marks--for instance the fetal reindeer brought home
from the spring hunt--till he is old enough to shoot small birds and lemmings" (514. 380, 383).

In a recent extensive and elaborately illustrated article, Dr. J. W. Fewkes has described the
dolls of the Tusayan Indians (one of the Pueblo tribes). Of the tihus, or carved wooden dolls,
the author says (226. 45): "These images are commonly mentioned by American visitors to the
Tusayan Pueblos as idols, but there is abundant evidence to show that they are at present used
simply as children's playthings, which are made for that purpose and given to the girls with
that thought in mind." Attention is called to the difficulty of drawing the line between a
doll and an idol among primitive peoples, the connection of dolls with religion, psychological
evidence of which lingers with us to-day in the persistent folk-etymology which connects doll
with idol. The following remarks of Dr. Fewkes are significant: "These figurines [generally
images of deities or mythological personages carved in true archaic fashion] are generally
made by participants in the Ni-man-Ka-tci-na, and are presented to the children in July or
August at the time of the celebration of the farewell of the Ka-tci'-nas [supernatural intercessors
between men and gods]. It is not rare to see the little girls after the presentation carrying
the dolls about on their backs wrapped in their blankets in the same manner in which babies
are carried by their mothers or sisters. Those dolls which are more elaborately made are generally
hung up as ornaments in the rooms, but never, so far as I have investigated the subject, are
they worshipped. The readiness with which they are sold for a proper remuneration shows that
they are not regarded as objects of reverence." But, as Dr. Fewkes himself adds, "It by no
means follows that they may not be copies of images which have been worshipped, although they
now have come to have a strictly secular use." Among some peoples, perhaps, the dolls, images
of deities of the past, or even of the present, may have been used to impart the fundamentals
of theology and miracle-story, and the play-house of the children may have been at times a
sort of religious kindergarten of a primitive type. Worthy of note in this connection is the
statement of Castren that "the Finns manufacture a kind of dolls, or paras, out of a child's
cap filled with tow and stuck at the end of a rod. The fetich thus made is carried nine times
round the church, with the cry 'synny para' (Para be born) repeated every time to induce a
hal'tia--that is to say, a spirit--to enter into it" (388. 108).

A glance into St. Nicholas, or at the returns to the syllabus on dolls sent out by President
Hall, is sufficient to indicate the farreaching associations of the subject, while the doll-congress
of St. Petersburg has had its imitators both in Europe and America. A bibliography of doll-poems,
doll-descriptions, doll-parties, doll-funerals, and the like would be a welcome addition to
the literature of dolls, while a doll-museum of extended scope would be at once entertaining
and of great scientific value.

The familiar phrase "to cry for the moon" corresponds to the French "prendre la lune avec ses
dents." In illustration of this proverbial expression, which Rabelais used in the form Je ne
suis point clerc pour prendre la lune avec les dents, Loubens tells the amusing story of a
servant who, when upbraided by the parents for not giving to a child what it wanted and for
which it had been long crying, answered: "You must give it him yourself. A quarter-of-an-hour
ago, he saw the moon at the bottom of a bucket of water, and wants me to give it him. That's
all." (Prov. et locut. franc., p. 225.)

To-day children cry for the moon in vain, but 'twas not ever thus. In payment for the church,
which King Olaf wanted to have built,--a task impossible, the saint thought,--the giant demanded
"the sun and moon, or St. Olaf himself." Soon the building was almost completed, and St. Olaf
was in great perplexity at the unexpected progress of the work. As he was wandering about "he
heard a child cry inside a mountain, and a giant-woman hush it with these words: 'Hush! hush!
to-morrow comes thy father Wind-and-Weather home, bringing both sun and moon, or saintly Olaf's
self.'" Had not the king overheard this, and, by learning the giant's name, been enabled to
crush him, the child could have had his playthings the next day.

In the course of an incarnation-myth of the raven among the Haida Indians of the Queen Charlotte
Islands, Mr. Mackenzie tells us (497. 53):--

"In time the woman bore a son, a remarkably small child. This child incessantly cried for the
moon to play with, thus--Koong-ah-ah, Koong-ah-ah ('the moon, the moon'). The spirit-chief,
in order to quiet the child, after carefully closing all apertures of the house, produced the
moon, and gave it to the child to play with." The result was that the raven (the child) ran
off with the moon, and the people in consequence were put to no little inconvenience. But by
and by the raven broke the original moon in two, threw half up into the sky, which became the
sun, while of the other half he made the moon, and of the little bits, which were left in the
breaking, all the stars.

In the golden age of the gods, the far-off juventus mundi, the parts of the universe were the
playthings, the Spielzeug of the divine infants, just as peasants and human infants figure
in the folk-tales as the toys of giants and Brobdingnagians. Indeed, some of the phenomena
of nature and their peculiarities are explained by barbarous or semi-barbarous peoples as the
result of the games and sports of celestial and spiritual children.

With barbarous or semi-civilized peoples possessing flocks and herds of domesticated animals
the child is early made acquainted with their habits and uses. Regarding the Kaffirs of South
Africa Theal says that it is the duty of the young boys to attend to the calves in the kraal,
and "a good deal of time is passed in training them to run and to obey signals made by whistling.
The boys mount them when they are eighteen months or two years old, and race about upon their
backs" (543. 220). In many parts of the world the child has played an important role as shepherd
and watcher of flocks and herds, and the shepherd-boy has often been called to high places
in the state, and has even ascended the thrones of great cities and empires, ecclesiastical
as well as political.

Dress.

In his little book on the philosophy of clothing Dr. Schurtz has given us an interesting account
of the development and variation of external ornamentation and dress among the various races,
especially the negro peoples of Africa. The author points out that with not a few primitive
tribes only married persons wear clothes, girls and boys, young women and men even, going about
in puris naturalibus (530. 13). Everywhere the woman is better clothed than the girl, and in
some parts of Africa, as the ring is with us, so are clothes a symbol of marriage. Among the
Balanta, for example, in Portuguese Senegambia, when a man marries he gives his wife a dress,
and so long as this remains whole, the marriage-union continues in force. On the coast of Sierra
Leone, the expression "he gave her a dress," intimates that the groom has married a young girl
(530. 14, 43-49).

Often, with many races the access of puberty leads to the adoption of clothing and to a refinement
of dress and personal adornment. A relic of this remains, as Dr. Schurtz points out, in the
leaving off of knickerbockers and the adoption of "long dresses," by the young people in our
civilized communities of to-day (530. 13).

With others the clothing of the young is of the most primitive type, and children in very many
cases go about absolutely naked.

That the development of the sex-feeling, and entrance upon marriage, have with very many peoples
been the chief incitements to dress and personal ornamentation, has been pointed out by Schurtz
and others (530. 14).

Not alone this, but, sometimes, as among the Bura Negroes of the upper Blue Nile region, the
advent of her child brings with it a modification in the dress of the mother. With these people,
young girls wear an apron in front, married women one in front and one behind, but women who
have already had a child wear two in front, one over the other. A similar remark applies to
tattooing and kindred ornamentations of the body and its members. Among the women of the Bajansi
on the middle Congo, for example, a certain form of tattoo indicated that the woman had borne
a child (530. 78).

Schurtz points out that the kangaroo-skin breast-covering of the Tasmanian women, the shoulder
and arm strips worn by the women of the Monbuttu in Africa, the skin mantles of the Marutse,
the thick hip-girdle of the Tupende, and other articles of clothing of a like nature, seem
to be really survivals of devices for carrying children, and not to have been originally intended
as dress per se (530. 110, 111). Thus early does childhood become a social factor.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE CHILD AS MEMBER AND BUILDER OF SOCIETY.

In great states, children are always trying to remain children, and the parents wanting to
make men and women of them. In vile states, the children are always wanting to be men and women,
and the parents to keep them children.--Ruskin.

Children generally hate to be idle; all the care is then that their busy humour should be constantly
employed in something of use to them.--Locke.

  Look into our childish faces;
  See you not our willing hearts?
  Only love us--only lead us;
  Only let us know you need us,
  And we all will do our parts.--Mary Howitt.

[Greek: Anthropos Phusei zoon politikon] [Man is by nature a political (social) animal].--Aristotle.

Never till now did young men, and almost children, take such a command in human affairs.--Carlyle.

Predestination and Caste.

  "Who can tell for what high cause
  This darling of the Gods was born?"

asks the poet Marvell. But with some peoples the task of answering the question is an easy
one; for fate, or its human side, caste, has settled the matter long before the infant comes
into the world. The Chinese philosopher, Han Wan-Kung, is cited by Legge as saying: "When Shuh-yu
was born, his mother knew, as soon as she looked at him, that he would fall a victim to his
love of bribes. When Yang sze-go was born, the mother of Shuh-he-ang knew, as soon as she heard
him cry, that he would cause the destruction of all his kindred. When Yueh-tseaou was born,
Tzewan considered it was a great calamity, knowing that through him all the ghosts of the Johgaou
family would be famished" (487. 89).

In India, we meet with the Bidhata-Purusha, a "deity that predestines all the events of the
life of man or woman, and writes on the forehead of the child, on the sixth day of its birth,
a brief precis of them" (426. 9). India is par excellence the land of caste, but other lands
know the system that makes the man follow in his father's footsteps, and often ignores the
woman altogether, not even counting her in the census of the people, as was formerly the case
even in Japan and China, where a girl was not worthy to be counted beside the son. Of ancient
Peru, Letourneau says: "Every male inherited his father's profession; he was not allowed to
choose another employment. By right of birth a man was either labourer, miner, artisan, or
soldier" (100. 486). Predestination of state and condition in another world is a common theological
tenet, predestination of state and condition in this world is a common social theory.

Vast indeed is the lore of birth-days, months and years, seasons and skies--the fictions, myths,
and beliefs of the astrologist, the spiritualist, the fortune-teller, and the almanac-maker--which
we have inherited from those ancestors of ours, who believed in the kinship of all things,
who thought that in some way "beasts and birds, trees and plants, the sea, the mountains, the
wind, the sun, the moon, the clouds, and the stars, day and night, the heaven and the earth,
were alive and possessed of the passions and the will they felt within themselves" (258. 25).
Here belongs a large amount of folk-lore and folk-speech relating to the defective, delinquent,
and dependent members of human society, whose misfortunes or misdeeds are assigned to atavistic
causes, to demoniacal influences.

Parenthood.

Among primitive peoples, the advent of a child, besides entailing upon one or both of the parents
ceremonies and superstitious performances whose name and fashion are legion, often makes a
great change in the constitution of society. Motherhood and fatherhood are, in more than one
part of the globe, primitive titles of nobility and badges of aristocracy. With the birth of
a child, the Chinese woman becomes something more than a mere slave and plaything, and in the
councils of uncivilized peoples (as with us to-day) the voice of the father of a family carries
more weight than that of the childless. With the civilized races to-day, more marriages mean
fewer prison-houses, and more empty jails, than in the earlier days, and with the primitive
peoples of the present, this social bond was the salvation of the tribe to the same extent
and in the same way.

As Westermarck points out, there are "several instances of husband and wife not living together
before the birth of a child." Here belong the temporary marriages of the Creek Indians, the
East Greenlanders, the Fuegians, the Essenes, and some other Old World sects and peoples--the
birth of a child completes the marriage--"marriage is therefore rooted in family, rather than
family in marriage," in such cases. With the Ainos of the island of Tezo, the Khyens of Farther
India, and with one of the aboriginal tribes of China, so Westermarck informs us, "the husband
goes to live with his wife at her father's house, and never takes her away till after the birth
of a child," and with more than one other people the wife remains with her own parents until
she becomes a mother (166. 22, 23).

In some parts of the United States we find similar practices among the population of European
ancestry. The "boarding-out" of young couples until a child is born to them is by no means
uncommon.

Adoption.

Adoption is, among some primitive peoples, remarkably extensive. Among the natives of the Andaman
Islands "it is said to be of rare occurrence to find any child above six or seven years of
age residing with its parents, and this, because it is considered a compliment and also a mark
of friendship for a married man, after paying a visit, to ask his hosts to allow him to adopt
one of their children" (498. 57).

Of the Hawaiian Islanders, Letourneau remarks (100. 389, 390): "Adoption was rendered extremely
easy; a man would give himself a father or sons almost ad infinitum." In the Marquesas Islands
"it was not uncommon to see elderly persons being adopted by children." Moreover, "animals
even were adopted. A chief adopted a dog, to whom, he offered ten pigs and some precious ornaments.
The dog was carried about by a kikino, and at every meal he had his stated place beside his
adopted father." Connected with adoption are many curious rites and ceremonies which may be
found described in Ploss and other authorities. Dr. Friedrich S. Krauss (280) has recently
treated at some length of a special form of adoption symbolized by the cutting of the hair,
and particularly known among the southern Slavonians. The cutting off the hair here represents,
the author thinks, the unconditional surrendering of one's body or life to another. The origin
of the sacrifice of the hair is to be sought in the fact that primitive peoples have believed
that the seat of the soul was in the hair and the blood, which were offered to the spirits
or demons in lieu of the whole body. The relation between nurse and child has been treated
of by Ploss and Wiedniann (167), the latter with special reference to ancient Egypt and the
Mohammedan countries. In ancient Egypt the nurse was reckoned as one of the family, and in
the death-steles and reliefs of the Middle Kingdom her name and figure are often found following
those of the children and parents of the deceased. The wet-nurse was held in especial honour.
The milk-relationship sometimes completely takes the place of blood-relationship. The Koran
forbids the marriage of a nurse and a man whom, as a child, she has suckled; the laws of the
Hanafi forbid a man to marry a woman from whose breast he has imbibed even a single drop of
milk. Among the southern Slavonians: "If of two children who have fed at the breast of the
same woman, one is a boy and the woman's own child, and the other (adopted) a girl, these two
must never marry." If they are both girls, they are like real sisters in love and affection;
if both boys, like real brothers. In Dardistan and Armenia also, milk-relationship prevents
marriage (167. 263).

In Mingrelia as soon as a child is given to a woman to nurse, she, her husband, children, and
grandchildren are bound to it by ties more dear even than those of blood-relationship; she
would yield up her life for the child, and the latter, when grown up, is reciprocally dutiful.
It is a curious fact that even grown-up people can contract this sort of relationship. "Thus
peasant-women are very anxious to have grown-up princesses become then foster-children--the
latter simply bite gently the breasts of their foster-mothers, and forthwith a close relationship
subsists between them." It is said also that girls obtain protectors in like manner by having
youths bite at their breasts, which (lately) they cover with a veil (167. 263). Adoption by
the letting or transfusion of blood is also found in various parts of the world and has far-reaching
ramifications; as Trumbull, Robertson Smith, and Daniels have pointed out. The last calls attention
to the Biblical declaration (Proverbs, xxviii. 24): "There is a friend which sticketh closer
than a brother," underlying which seems to be this mystic tie of blood (214. 16).

The mourning for the death of children is discussed in another part of this work. It may be
mentioned here, however, that the death of a child often entails other, sometimes more serious,
consequences. Among the Dyaks of Borneo, "when a father has lost his child, he kills the first
man he meets as he goes out of his house; this is to him an act of duty" (100. 238).

Hereditary Bights.

The hereditary rights of children to share in the property of their parents have been made
the subject of an interesting study by Clement Deneus (215), a lawyer of Ghent, who has treated
in detail of the limitation of the patria potestas in respect to disposition of the patrimony,
and the reservation to the children of a portion of the property of their parents--an almost
inviolable right, of which they can be deprived only in consequence of the gravest offences.
This reservation the author considers "a principle universally recognized among civilized nations,"
and an institution which marks a progress in the history of law and of civilization (215. 49),
while testamentary freedom is unjust and inexpedient. The author discusses the subject from
the points of view of history, statute and natural law, social economy, etc., devoting special
attention to pointing out the defects of the system of the school of Le Play,--primogeniture,
which still obtains in England, in several parts of Germany, in certain localities of the Pyrenees,
and in the Basque provinces.

In the countries of modern Europe, the testamentary power of the father is limited as follows:
Austria (Code of 1812): One-half of parents' property reserved for children. The law of 1889
makes exception in the case of rural patrimonies of moderate size with dwelling attached, where
the father has the right to designate his heir. Denmark (Code of 1845): Father can dispose
of but one-fourth of the property; nobles, however, are allowed to bestow upon one of their
children the half of their fortune. Germany: No uniform civil legislation exists as yet for
the whole empire. In the majority of the smaller states, in a part of Bavaria, Rugen, eastern
Pomerania, Schleswig-Holstein, the Corpus Juris Civilis of Justinian is in force, while the
Napoleonic code obtains in Rhenish Prussia, Hesse, and Bavaria, in Baden, Berg, Alsace-Lorraine.
In Prussia, the reserve is one-third, if there are less than three children; one-half, if there
are three or four. In Saxony, if there are five or more children, the reserve is one-half;
if there are four or less, one-third. Greece: The Justinian novels are followed. Holland: The
Napoleonic code is in force. Italy (Code of 1866): The reserve is one-half. Norway (Code of
1637, modified in 1800, 1811, 1825): The father is allowed free disposal of one-half of the
patrimony, but for religious charities (fondationspieuses) only. Portugal: The legitimate is
two-thirds. Roumania (Code of 1865): The same provision as in the Napoleonic code. Russia (Code
of 1835): The father can dispose at pleasure of the personal property and property acquired,
but the property itself must be divided equally. In Esthonia, this provision also applies to
personal property acquired by inheritance. Spain (Code of 1889): The father can dispose of
one-third of the patrimony to a stranger; to a child he can will two-thirds. He can also, in
the case of farming, industry, or commerce, leave his entire property to one of his children,
except that the legatee has to pecuniarily indemnify his brothers and sisters. Sweden (Code
of 1734): In the towns, the father can dispose of but one-sixth of the patrimony; in the country,
the patrimonial property must go to the children. The rest is at the will of the father, except
that he must provide for the sustenance of his children. Switzerland: At Geneva, the Napoleonic
code is in force; in the Canton of Uri, the younger son is sometimes specially favoured; in
Zurich, the father can dispose of one-sixth in favour of strangers, or one-fifth in favour
of a child; in Bale, he is allowed no disposal; in the cantons of Neuchatel and Vaud, the reserve
is one-half, in Bern and Schaffhausen, two-thirds, and in Eriburg and Soleure, three-fourths.
Turkey: The father can dispose of two-thirds by will, or of the whole by gift (215. 39-41).

In Prance, article 913 of the civil code forbids the father to dispose, by gift while living,
or by will, of more than one-half of the property, if he leaves at his death but one legitimate
child; more than one-third, if he leaves two children; more than one-fourth, if he leave three
or more children. In the United States great testamentary freedom prevails, and the laws of
inheritance belong to the province of the various States.

Among the nations of antiquity,--Egyptians, Persians, Assyrians, Chinese,--according to Deneus
(215. 2), the patria potestas probably prevented any considerable diffusion of the family estates.
By the time of Moses, the Hebrews had come to favour the first-born, and to him was given a
double share of the inheritance. With the ancient Hindus but a slight favouring--of the eldest
son seems to have been in vogue, the principle of co-proprietorship of parent and children
being recognized in the laws of Manu. In Sparta, the constitution was inimical to a reserve
for all the children; in Athens, the code of Solon forbade a man to benefit a stranger at the
expense of his legitimate male children; he had, however, the right to make particular legacies,
probably up to one-half of the property. Deneus considers that the penchant of the Athenians
for equality was not favourable to a cast-iron system of primogeniture, although the father
may have been able to favour his oldest child to the extent of one-half of his possessions.
In ancient Rome (215. 4-16), at first, a will was an exception, made valid only by the vote
of a lex curiata; but afterwards the absolute freedom of testamentary disposition, which was
approved in 450 B.C. by the Law of the Twelve Tables,--Uti legassit super pecunia tutelage
suce rei, ita jus esto,--appears, and the father could even pass by his children in silence
and call upon an utter stranger to enjoy his estate and possessions. By 153 B.C., however,
the father was called upon to nominally disinherit his children, and not merely pass them over
in silence, if he wished to leave his property to a stranger. For some time this provision
had little effect, but a breach in the patria potestas has really been made, and by the time
of Pliny the Younger (61-115 A.D.), who describes the procedure in detail, the disinherited
children were given the right of the querula inoffidosi testamenti, by which the father was
presumed to have died intestate, and his property fell in equal shares to all his children.
Thus it was that the right of children in the property of the father was first really recognized
at Rome, and the pars legitima, the reserve of which made it impossible for the children to
attack the will of the father, came into practice. In the last years of the Republic, this
share was at least one-fourth of what the legitimate heir would have received in the absence
of a will; under Justinian, it was one-third of the part ab intestate, if this was at least
one-fourth of the estate; otherwise, one-half. The father always retained the right to disinherit,
for certain reasons, in law. With this diminution of his rights over property went also a lessening
of his powers over the bodies of his children. Diocletian forbade the selling of children,
Constantine decreed that the father who exposed his new-born child should lose the patria potestas,
and Valentinian punished such action with death. Among the ancient Gauls, in spite of the father's
power of life and death over his offspring, he could not disinherit them, for the theory of
co-proprietorship obtained with these western tribes (215. 16). With the ancient Germans, the
father appears to have been rather the protector of his children than their owner or keeper;
the child is recognized, somewhat rudely, as a being with some rights of his own. Michelet
has aptly observed, as Deneus remarks, that "the Hindus saw in the son the reproduction of
the father's soul; the Romans, a servant of the father; the Germans, a child" (215. 17). At
first wills were unknown among them, for the system of co-proprietorship,--hoeredes successoresgue
sui cuique liberi et nullum testamentum,--and the solidarity of the family and all its members,
did not feel the need of any. The inroad of Roman ideas, and especially, Deneus thinks, the
fervour of converts to Christianity, introduced testamentary legacies.

The Goths and Burgundians, in their Roman laws, allowed the parent to dispose of three-fourths,
the Visigoths one-third or one-fifth, according as the testator disposed of his property in
favour of a child or a stranger. The national law of the Burgundians allowed to the father
the absolute disposal of his acquisitions, but prescribed the equal sharing of the property
among all the children. The ripuarian law of the Franks left the children a reserve of twelve
sons, practically admitting absolute freedom of disposition by will (215. 18). The course of
law in respect to the inheritance of children during the Middle Ages can be read in the pages
of Deneus and the wider comparative aspect of the subject studied in the volumes of Post, Dargun,
Engels, etc., where the various effects of mother-right and father-right are discussed and
interpreted.

Subdivisions of Land.

In some cases, as in Wurtemburg, Switzerland, Hanover, Thuringia, Hesse, certain parts of Sweden,
France, and Russia, the subdivision of property has been carried out to an extent which has
produced truly Lilliputian holdings. In Switzerland there is a certain commune where the custom
obtains of transmitting by will to each child its proportional share of each parcel; so that
a single walnut-tree has no fewer than sixty proprietors. This reminds us of the Maoris of
New Zealand, with whom "a portion of the ground is allotted to the use of each family, and
this portion is again subdivided into individual parts on the birth of each child." It is of
these same people that the story is told that, after selling certain of their lands to the
English authorities, they came back in less than a year and demanded payment also for the shares
of the children born since the sale, whose rights they declared had not been disposed of. On
the islands of the Loire there are holdings "so small that it is impossible to reduce them
any less, so their owners have them each in turn a year"; in the commune of Murs, in Anjou,
there is "a strip of nine hectares, subdivided into no fewer than thirty-one separate parcels."
The limit, however, seems to be reached in Laon, where "it is not rare to find fields scarce
a metre (3 ft. 3.37 in.) wide; here an apple-tree or a walnut-tree covers with its branches
four or five lots, and the proprietor can only take in his crop in the presence of his neighbours,
to whom he has also to leave one-half of the fruit fallen on their lots." No wonder many disputes
and lawsuits arise from such a state of affairs. It puts us in mind at once of the story of
the sand-pile and the McDonogh farm. The exchange or purchase of contiguous parcels sometimes
brings temporary or permanent relief (215. 112, 113).

The following figures show the extent to which this Lilliputian system obtained in France in
1884, according to the returns of the Minister of Finance:--

NATURE OF PROPERTY.                    ABSOLUTE    PER   TOTAL    PER
                                       NUMBER OF  CENT. HECTARES. CENT.
                                       HOLDINGS.
Less than 20 ares
(100 ares = one hectare)             4,115,463  29.00
Less than 50 ares                    6,597,843  47.00  1,147,804  2.31
Less than 1 hectare ( =2-1/2 acres)  8,585,523  61.00  2,574,589  5.19
Less than 2 hectares                10,426,368  74.09  5,211,456 10.53
From 2 to 6 hectares                 2,174,188  15.47  7,543,347 15.26
From 6 to 50 hectares                1,351,499   9.58 19,217,902 38.94
From 50 to 200 hectares                105,070   0.74  9,398,057 19.04
More than 200 hectares                  17,676   0.12  8,017,542 16.23

Totals.....................         14,074,801 100.00 49,388,304 100.00

Deneus gives other interesting figures from Belgium and elsewhere, showing the extent of the
system. Other statistics given indicate that this parcelling-out has reached its lowest point,
and that the reaction has set in. It is a curious fact, noted by M. Deneus, that of the 1,173,724
tenant-farmers in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in the year 1884, no fewer
than 852,438 cultivated an acre or less.

Younger Son.

Mr. Sessions, in his interesting little pamphlet (351) calls attention to the important role
assigned in legend and story to the "younger son," "younger brother," as well as the social
customs and laws which have come into vogue on his account. Sir Henry Maine argued that "primogeniture
cannot be the natural outgrowth of the family, but is a political institution, coming not from
clansmen but from a chief." Hence the youngest son, "who continues longest with the father,
is naturally the heir of his house, the rest being already provided for." Mr. Sessions observes
(351. 2): "Among some primitive tribes, as those of Cape York [Australia] and the adjacent
islands, the youngest son inherited a double portion of his deceased father's goods. Among
the Maoris of New Zealand he takes the whole. Among some hill tribes of India, such as the
Todas of the Neilgherries, he takes the house and maintains the women of the family, whilst
the cattle, which represent the chief personalities, are equally divided. The Mrus and Kolhs
and Cotas have similar customs." Somewhat similar to the code of the Todas was that of the
Hindu Aryans, as embodied in the laws of Manu, for "the youngest son has, from time immemorial,
as well as the eldest, a place in Hindu legislation." The succession of the youngest prevails
among the Mongolian Tartars, and "when in Russia the joint family may be broken up, the youngest
takes the house." The right of the youngest was known among the Welsh, Irish, and some other
Celtic tribes; the old Welsh law gave the youngest son the house and eight acres, the rest
of the land being divided equally between all the sons. Mr. Sessions calls attention to the
fact that, while in Old Testament Palestine primogeniture was the rule, the line of ancestry
of Christ exhibits some remarkable exceptions. And among primitive peoples the hero or demi-god
is very often the younger son.

Under the name of "Borough English," the law by which the father's real property descends to
the youngest son alone, survives in Gloucester and some few other places in England,--Lambeth,
Hackney, part of Islington, Heston, Edmonton, etc.

Another interesting tenure is that of gavelkind, by which the land and property of the father
was inherited in equal portions by all his sons, the youngest taking the house, the eldest
the horse and arms, and so on. This mode of tenure, before the Conquest, was quite common in
parts of England, especially Wales and Northumberland, still surviving especially in the county
of Kent. Many things, indeed, testify of the care which was taken even in primitive times to
secure that the youngest born, the child of old age, so frequently the best-loved, should not
fare ill in the struggle for life.

Child-Nurses.

One important function of the child (still to be seen commonly among the lower classes of the
civilized races of to-day) with primitive peoples is that of nurse and baby-carrier. Even of
Japan, Mrs. Bramhall gives this picture (189. 33):--

"We shall see hundreds of small children, not more than five or six years of age, carrying,
fast asleep on their shoulders, the baby of the household, its tiny smooth brown head swinging
hither and thither with every movement of its small nurse, who walks, runs, sits, or jumps,
flies kites, plays hop-scotch, and fishes for frogs in the gutter, totally oblivious of that
infantile charge, whether sleeping or waking. If no young sister or brother be available, the
husband, the uncle, the father, or grandfather hitches on his back the baby, preternaturally
good and contented."

The extent to which, in America, as well as in Europe, to-day, young children are entrusted
with the care of infants of their family, has attracted not a little attention, and the "beyond
their years" look of some of these little nurses and care-takers is often quite noticeable.
The advent of the baby-carriage has rather facilitated than hindered this old-time employment
of the child in the last century or so. In a recent number (vol. xvii. p. 792) of Public Opinion
we find the statement that from June 17, 1890, to September 15, 1894, the "Little Mothers'
Aid Association," of New York, has been the means of giving a holiday, one day at least of
pleasure in the year, to more than eight thousand little girls, who are "little mothers, in
the sense of having the care of younger children while the parents are at work." In thrifty
New England, children perform not a little of the housework, even the cooking; and "little
mothers" and "little housekeepers" were sometimes left to themselves for days, while their
elders in days gone by visited or went to the nearest town or village for supplies.

Child-Marriages.

"Marriages are made in heaven," says the old proverb, and among some primitive peoples we meet
with numerous instances of their having been agreed upon and arranged by prospective parents
long before the birth of their offspring. Indeed, the betrothal of unborn children by their
parents occurs sporadically to-day in civilized lands. Ploss has called attention to child-marriages
in their sociological and physiological bearings (125.1. 386-402), and Post has considered
the subject in his historical study of family law. In these authorities the details of the
subject may be read. In Old Calabar, men who already possess several wives take to their bosom
and kiss, as their new wife, babes two or three weeks old. In China, Gujurat, Ceylon, and parts
of Brazil, wives of from four to six years of age are occasionally met with. In many parts
of the world wives of seven to nine years of age are common, and wives of from ten to twelve
very common. In China it is sometimes the case that parents buy for their infant son an infant
wife, nursed at the same breast with him (234. xlii.). Wiedemann, in an article on child-marriages
in Egypt (381), mentions the fact that a certain king of the twenty-first dynasty (about 1100
B.C.) seems to have had as one of his wives a child only a few days old. From Dio Cassius we
learn that in Rome, at the beginning of the Empire, marriages of children under ten years occasionally
took place.

In some parts of the world the child-wife does not belong to her child-husband. "Among the
Reddies, of India," Letourneau informs us, "a girl from sixteen to twenty years of age is married
to a boy of five or six. The wife then becomes the real wife of the boy's uncle, or cousin,
or of the father of the reputed husband. But the latter is considered to be the legal father
of the children of his pretended wife." So it is only when the boy has grown up that he receives
his wife, and he, in turn, acts as his relative before him (100. 354). Temple cites the following
curious custom in his tales of the Panjab (542. I. xviii.):-- "When Raja Vasali has won a bride
from Raja Sirkap, he is given a new-born infant and a mango-tree, which is to flower in twelve
years, and when it flowers, the girl is to be his wife." The age prescribed by ancient Hindu
custom (for the Brahman, Tshetria, and Vysia classes) is six to eight years for the girl, and
the belief prevailed that if a girl were to attain her puberty before being married, her parents
and brothers go to hell, as it was their duty to have got her married before that period (317.
56). Father Sangermano, writing of Burma a hundred years ago, notices the "habit of the Burmese
to engage their daughters while young, in real or fictitious marriages, in order to save them
from the hands of the king's ministers, custom having established a rule, which is rarely if
ever violated, that no married woman can be seized, even for the king himself" (234. xlii.).
The child-marriages of India have been a fruitful theme for discussion, as well as the enforced
widowhood consequent upon the death of the husband. Among the most interesting literature on
the subject are the "Papers relating to Infant Marriage and Enforced Widowhood in India" (317),
Schlagintweit (142), etc. The evils connected with the child-marriages of India are forcibly
brought out by Mrs. Steel in several of the short stories in her From the Five Rivers (1893),
and by Richard Garbe in his beautiful little novel The Redemption of the Brahman(1894).

But India and other Eastern lands are not the only countries where "child-marriages" have flourished.
Dr. F. J. Furnivall (234), the distinguished English antiquary and philologist, poring over
at Chester the "Depositions in Trials in the Bishop's Court from November, 1561 to March, 1565-6,"
was astonished to find on the ninth page the record: "that Elizabeth Hulse said she was married
to George Hulse in the Chapel of Knutsford, when she was but three or four years old, while
the boy himself deposed that he was about seven," and still more surprised when he discovered
that the volume contained "no fewer than twenty-seven cases of the actual marriage in church
of the little boys and girls of middle-class folk." The result of Dr. Furnivall's researches
is contained in the one-hundred-and-eighth volume (original series) of the Early English Text
Society's Publications, dealing with child-marriages, divorces, ratifications, etc., and containing
a wealth of quaint and curious sociological lore. Perhaps the youngest couple described are
John Somerford, aged about three years, and Jane Brerton, aged about two years, who were married
in the parish church of Brerton about 1553. Both were carried in arms to the church, and had
the words of the marriage service said for them by those who carried them. It appears that
they lived together at Brerton for ten years, but without sustaining any further marital relations,
and when the husband was about fifteen years, we find him suing for a divorce on account of
his wife's "unkindness, and other weighty causes." Neither party seemed affectionately disposed
towards the other (234.26). Other very interesting marriages are those of Bridget Dutton (aged
under five years) and George Spurstowe (aged six) (234. 38); Margaret Stanley (aged five) and
Roland Dutton (aged nine), brother of Bridget Dutton (234. 41); Janet Parker (aged five) and
Lawrence Parker (aged nine to ten). The rest of the twenty-seven couples were considerably
older, the most of the girls ranging between eight and twelve, the boys between ten and fourteen
(234. 28). It would Seem that for the most part these young married couples were not allowed
to live together, but at times some of the nuptial rites were travestied or attempted to be
complied with. In two only of the twenty-seven cases is there mention of "bedding" the newly-married
children. John Budge, who at the age of eleven to twelve years, was married to Elizabeth Ramsbotham,
aged thirteen to fourteen years, is said to have wept to go home with his father and only by
"compulsion of the priest of the Chapel" was he persuaded to lie with his wife, but never had
any marital relations with her whatever, and subsequently a petition for divorce was filed
by the husband (234. 6). In the case of Ellen Dampart, who at the age of about eight years,
was married to John Andrew aged ten, it appears that they slept in the same bed with two of
the child-wife's sisters between them. No marital relations were entered upon, and the wife
afterwards sues for a divorce (234. 15, 16).

The practice seems to have been for each of the children married to go to live with some relative,
and if the marriage were not ratified by them after reaching years of consent, to petition
for a divorce. In some nine cases the boy is younger than the girl, and Humfrey Winstanley
was under twelve when he was married to Alice Worsley aged over seventeen; in this case no
marital relations were entered upon, though the wife was quite willing; and the husband afterwards
petitions for a divorce (234.2-4). Thomas Dampart, who at the age of ten years, was married
to Elizabeth Page, appears to have lived with his wife about eight years and to have kept up
marital relations with her until she left him of her own motion. Dr. Furnivall (234. 49-52)
cites four cases of ratification of child-marriages by the parties after they have attained
years of discretion, in one of which the boy and the girl were each but ten years old when
married. The most naive account in the whole book is that of the divorce-petition of James
Ballard, who, when about eleven years of age, was married in the parish church of Colne at
ten o'clock at night by Sir Roger Blakey, the curate, to a girl named Anne; the morning after
the ceremony he is said "to have declared unto his uncle that the said Anne had enticed him
with two Apples, to go with her to Colne, and marry her." No marital relations were entered
upon, and the curate was punished for his hasty and injudicious action (234. 45).

Dr. Furnivall (234. xxxv.) quotes at some length the legal opinion--the law on infant marriages--of
Judge Swinburne (died, 1624), from which we learn that "infants" (i.e. children under seven
years of age) could not contract spousals or matrimony, and such contracts made by the infants
or by their parents were void, unless subsequently ratified by the contracting parties by word
or deed,--at twelve the girls ceased to be children, and at fourteen the boys, and were then
fully marriageable, as they are to-day in many parts of the world. Of childhood, Judge Swinburne
says, "During this age, children cannot contract Matrimony de praesenti., but only de futuro";
but their spousals could readily be turned into actual marriages after the girls were twelve
and the boys fourteen, as Dr. Furnivall points out.

The fifth limitation to his general statement, which the learned judge made, is thus strangely
and quaintly expressed: "The fifth Limitation is, when the Infants which do contract Spousals
are of that Wit and Discretion, that albeit they have not as yet accomplished the full Age
of Seven Years, yet doth their supra-ordinary understanding fully supply that small defect
of Age which thing is not rare in these days, wherein Children become sooner ripe, and do conceive
more quickly than in former Ages" (234. xxxvi.).

First among the causes of these child-marriages Dr. Furnivall is inclined to rank "the desire
to evade the feudal law of the Sovereign's guardianship of all infants," for "when a father
died, the Crown had the right to hold the person and estate of the propertied orphan until
it came of age, and it could be sold in marriage for the benefit of the Crown or its grantee."
Moreover, "if the orphan refused such a marriage with a person of its own rank, it had to pay
its guardian a heavy fine for refusing his choice, and selecting a spouse of its own" (234.
xxxix.). Property-arrangement also figures as a cause of these alliances, especially where
the bride is older than the groom: Elizabeth Hulse (aged four) was married to George Hulse
(aged seven) "because her friends thought she should have a living by him" (234. 4). When Elizabeth
Ramsbotham (aged 13-14) married John Bridge (aged 11-12), "money was paid by the father of
the said Elizaboth, to buy a piece of land" (234. 6); according to the father of Joan Leyland
(aged 11-12), who married Ralph Whittall (aged 11-12), "they were married because she should
have had by him a pretty bargain, if they could have loved, one the other" (234.12); Thomas
Bentham (aged twelve) and Ellen Boltoii (aged ten) were married because Richard Bentham, grandfather
of Ellen, "was a very wealthy man, and it was supposed that he would have been good unto them,
and bestowed some good farm upon them" (234. 32); the marriage of Thomas Fletcher (aged 10-11)
and Anne Whitfield (aged about nine) took place because "John Fletcher, father of the said
Thomas, was in debt; and, to get some money of William Whitfield, to the discharge of his debts,
married and bargained his sonne to the said Whitfield's daughter." The "compulsion of their
friends" seems also to have been a cause of the marriages of children; Peter Hope (about thirteen)
married Alice Ellis (aged nine), "because it was his mother's mind, he durst not displease
her" (234. 20, 23).

So far the evidence has related to unsatisfactory and unfortunate marriages, but, as Dr. Furnivall
remarks, "no doubt scores of others ended happily; the child-husband and--wife just lived on
together, and--when they had reached their years of discretion (girls twelve, boys fourteen)
or attained puberty--ratified their marriage by sleeping in one bed and having children" (234.
xix., 203).

Some additional cases of child-marriages in the diocese of Chester are noticed by Mr. J. P.
Earwaker (234. xiv.), a pioneer in this branch of antiquarian research, whose studies date
back to 1885. The case of John Marden, who, at the age of three years, was married to a girl
of five is thus described: "He was carried in the arms of a clergyman, who coaxed him to repeat
the words of matrimony. Before he had got through his lesson, the child declared he would learn
no more that day. The priest answered: 'You must speak a little more, and then go play you.'"
Robert Parr, who, in 1538-9, at the age of three, was married to Elizabeth Rogerson, "was hired
for an apple by his uncle to go to church, and was borne thither in the arms of Edward Bunburie
his uncle ... which held him in arms the time that he was married to the said Elizabeth, at
which time the said Robert could scarce speak." Mr. Earwaker says that in the Inquisitiones
post mortem, "it is by no means unfrequent to read that so and so was heir to his father, and
then aged, say, ten years, and was already married" (234. xxi.-xxxiii.).

A celebrated child-marriage was that at Eynsham, Oxfordshire, in 1541, the contracting parties
being William, Lord Eure, aged 10-11 years, and Mary Darcye, daughter of Lord Darcye, aged
four. The parties were divorced November 3, 1544, and in 1548, the boy took to himself another
wife. Dr. Furnivall cites from John Smith's Lives of the Berkeleys, the statements that Maurice,
third Lord Berkeley, was married in 1289, when eight years old, to Eve, daughter of Lord Zouch,
and, before he or his wife was fourteen years of age, had a son by her; that Maurice, the fourth
Lord Berkeley, when eight years of age, was married in 1338-9, to Elizabeth, daughter of Hugh
Lord Spenser, about eight years old; that Thomas, the fourth Lord Berkeley, when about fourteen
and one-half years of age, was married, in 1366, to Margaret, daughter of Lord de Lisle, aged
about seven. Smith, in quaint fashion, refers to King Josiah (2 Kings, xxiii., xxvi.), King
Ahaz (2 Kings, xvi. 2, xviii. 2), and King Solomon (1 Kings, xi. 42, xiv. 21) as having been
fathers at a very early age, and remarks: "And the Fathers of the Church do tell us that the
blessed Virgin Mary brought forth our Saviour at fifteen years old, or under" (234. xxvii).

Even during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries child-marriages are numerously attested.
Following are noteworthy cases (234. xxiii.): In 1626 Anne Clopton, aged nearly fourteen, was
married to Sir Simonds D'Ewes, aged nearly twenty-four; in 1673, John Power, grandson of Lord
Anglesey, was married at Lambeth, by the Archbishop of Canterbury to Mrs. Catherine Fitzgerald,
his cousin-german, she being about thirteen, and he eight years old; at Dunton Basset, Leicestershire,
in 1669, Mary Hewitt (who is stated to have lived to the good old age of seventy- seven) was
married when but three years old; in 1672, the only daughter (aged five) of Lord Arlington
was married to the Duke of Grafton, and the ceremony was witnessed by John Evelyn, who, in
1679, "was present at the re-marriage of the child couple"; in 1719, Lady Sarah Cadogan, aged
thirteen, was married to Charles, Duke of Eichmond, aged eighteen; in 1721, Charles Powel,
of Carmarthen, aged about eleven, was married to a daughter of Sir Thomas Powel, of Broadway,
aged about fourteen; in 1729, "a girl of nine years and three months was taken from a boarding
school by one of her guardians, and married to his son"; Bridget Clarke, in 1883, is reputed
to have been twenty-five years old, to have had seven children, and to have been married when
only thirteen; at Deeping, Lincolnshire, a young man of twenty-one married a girl of fourteen,
and "it was somewhat of a novelty to observe the interesting bride the following day exhibiting
her skill on the skipping-rope on the pavement in the street." Mr. Longstaff, who has studied
the annual reports of the registrar-general for 1851-81, finds that during these thirtyone
years, "out of 11,058,376 persons married, 154 boys married before 17, and 862 girls before
16. Of these, 11 boys of 15 married girls of 15 (four cases), 16, 18 (two cases), 20, and 21.
Three girls of 14 married men of 18, 21, and 25. Five girls of 15 married boys of 16; in 29
marriages both girl and boy were sixteen" (234. xxxiii).

Further comments upon infant marriages may be found in an article in the Gentleman's Magazine,
for September, 1894, the writer of which remarks: "Within recent years, however, the discovery
has been made, that, so far from being confined, as had been supposed, to royal or aristocratic
houses, infant marriages were, in the sixteenth century, common in some parts of England among
all classes" (367. 322).

It was said "marriages are made in heaven," and that some times children are married before
they are born; it might also be said "marriages are made for heaven," since some children are
married after they are dead. In some parts of China (and Marco Polo reported the same practice
as prevalent in his time among the Tartars) "the spirits of all males who die in infancy or
in boyhood are, in due time, married to the spirits of females who have been cut off at a like
early age" (166. 140).

As Westermarck observes, "Dr. Ploss has justly pointed out that the ruder a people is, and
the more exclusively a woman is valued as an object of desire, or as a slave, the earlier in
life is she chosen; whereas, if marriage becomes a union of souls as well as of bodies, the
man claims a higher degree of mental maturity from the woman he wishes to be his wife."

In so civilized a nation even as the United States, the "age of consent" laws evidence the
tenacity of barbarism. The black list of states, compiled by Mr. Powell (180. 201), in a recent
article in the Arena, reveals the astonishing fact that in three states--Alabama, North Carolina,
South Carolina-the "age of consent" is ten years; in four states, twelve years; in three states,
thirteen years; in no fewer than twenty states, fourteen years; in two states, fifteen years;
in twelve states, sixteen years; and in one state (Florida), seventeen years. In Kansas and
Wyoming alone is the "age of consent" eighteen years, and it is worthy of note that Wyoming
is the only state in the Union in which women have for any considerable length of time enjoyed
the right to vote on exactly the same terms as men. In England, the agitation set going by
Mr. Stead, in 1885, resulted in, the passage of a law raising the "age of consent" from thirteen
to sixteen years. It is almost beyond belief, that, in the State of Delaware, only a few years
ago, the "age of consent" was actually as low as seven years (180.194)! Even in Puritan New
England, we find the "age of consent" fixed at thirteen in New Hampshire, and at fourteen in
Connecticut, Vermont, and Maine (180. 195). It is a sad comment upon our boasted culture and
progress that, as of old, the law protects, and even religion fears to disturb too rudely,
this awful sacrifice to lust which we have inherited from our savage ancestors. There is no
darker chapter in the history of our country than that which tells of the weak pandering to
the modern representatives of the priests of Bacchus, Astarte, and the shameless Venus. The
religious aspect of the horrible immolation may have passed away, but wealth and social attractions
have taken its place, and the evil works out its destroying way as ever. To save the children
from this worse than death, women must fight, and they will win; for once the barbarity, the
enormity, the inhumanity of this child-sacrifice is brought home to men they cannot for their
own children's sake permit the thing to go on. Here, above all places else, apply the words
of Jesus: "Whoso shall cause one of these little ones which believe on me to stumble, it is
profitable that a great millstone should be hanged about his neck, and he should be sunk in
the depths of the sea." The marriage-laws of some of the states savour almost as much of prehistoric
times and primitive peoples. With the consent of her parents, a girl of twelve years may lawfully
contract marriage in no fewer than twenty-two states and territories; and in no fewer than
twenty, a boy of fourteen may do likewise. In some of the Southern States the age seems to
be somewhat higher than in a number of the Northern. The existence of slavery may have tended
to bring about this result; while the same fact in the West is to be accounted for by the vigour
and newness of the civilization in that part of the country.

Children's Rights.

Where, as in ancient Rome, for example, the patria potestas flourished in primitive vigour,--Mommsen
says, "all in the household were destitute of legal rights,--the wife and the child no less
than the bullock or the slave" (166. 229), children could in nowise act as members of society.
Westermarck (166. 213-239) shows to what extent and to what age the mundiwm, or guardianship
of the father over his children, was exercised in Rome, Greece, among the Teutonic tribes,
in France. In the latter country even now "a child cannot quit the paternal residence without
the permission of the father before the age of twenty-one, except for enrolment in the army.
For grave misconduct by his children the father has strong means of correction. A son under
twenty-five and a daughter under-twenty-one cannot marry without the consent of their parents;
and even when a man has attained his twenty-fifth year, and the woman her twenty-first, both
are still bound to ask for it, by a formal notification." Westermarck's observations on the
general subject are as follows:--"There is thus a certain resemblance between the family institution
of savage tribes and that of the most advanced races. Among both, the grown-up son, and frequently
the grown-up daughter, enjoys a liberty unknown among peoples at an intermediate stage of civilization.
There are, however, these vital differences: that children in civilized countries are in no
respect the property of their parents; that they are born with certain rights guaranteed to
them by society; that the birth of children gives parents no rights over them other than those
which conduce to the children's happiness. These ideas, essential as they are to true civilization,
are not many centuries old. It is a purely modern conception the French Encyclopaedist expresses
when he says, 'Le pouvoir paternel est plutot un devoir qu'un pouvoir'" (166. 239).

The Child at School.

It was in this spirit also that Count Czaky (when Minister of Education in Hungary), replying
to the sarcastic suggestion of one of the Deputies, during the debate on the revision of the
curriculum of classical studies, that "the lazy children should be asked whether they liked
to study Greek or not," said that "when it became necessary, he would willingly listen to the
children themselves." That children have some rights in the matter is a view that is slowly
but surely fixing itself in the minds of the people,--that the school should be something more
than an intellectual prison-house, a mental and moral tread-mill, a place to put children in
out of the way of the family, a dark cave into which happy, freedom-loving, joyous childhood
must perforce retire from that communion with nature which makes the health of its body and
the salvation of its soul. This false theory of education is vanishing, however tardily, before
the teachings of the new psychology and the new anthropology, which demand a knowledge of what
the child is, feels, thinks, before they will be party to any attempt to make him be, feel,
think, something different. The school is but a modified form of society, of its fundamental
institution, the family. Dr. Eiccardi, in the introduction to his Antropologia e Pedagogia,-in
which he discusses a mass of psychological, sociological, and anthropological observations
and statistics,--well says (336. 12):--

"The school is a little society, whose citizens are the scholars. The teacher has not merely
to instruct the pupil, but ought also to teach him to live in the little school-society and
thus fitly prepare him to live in the great society of humanity. And just as men are classified
in human society, so ought to be classified the scholars in the little school-society; and
just as the teacher looks upon the great human world in movement upon the earth, so ought he
also to look upon that little world called the school, observing its elements with a positive
eye, without preconceptions and without prejudices. The teacher, therefore, in regard to the
school-organism, is as a legislator in regard to society. And the true and wise legislator
does not give laws to the governed, does not offer security and liberty to the citizens, until
after he has made a profound study of his country and of society. Let the teacher try for some
time to take these criteria into his school; let him try to apply in the school many of those
facts and usages which are commonly employed in human society, and he will see how, little
by little, almost unnoticeably, the primitive idea of the school will be modified in his mind,
and he will see how the school itself will assume the true character which it ought to have,
that is, the character of a microscopic social organism. This legislator for our children,
by making the children and youths clearly see of themselves that the school is nothing else
but a little society, where they are taught to live, and by making them see the points of resemblance
and of contact with the great human society, will engender in the minds of the pupils the conscience
of duty and of right; will create in them the primitive feeling of justice and of equity. And
the pupils, feeling that there is a real association, feeling that they do form part of a little
world, and are not something merely gathered together by chance for a few hours, will form
a compact homogeneous scholastic association, in which all will try to be something, and of
which all will be proud. In this way will the assemblage of disparate, diverse, heterogeneous
elements, with which the school begins the year, be able to become homogeneous and create a
true school organism. And if the teacher will persevere, whether in the direction of the school,
in the classification of the pupils, or in the different contingencies that arise, in applying
those criteria, those ideas, those forms, which are commonly employed in society, he will be
favouring the homogeneity of the little organism which he has to instruct and to educate. He
will thus have always before his mind all the organic, psychic, and moral characteristics of
human society and will see the differences from, and the resemblances to, those of the school-organism.
In so far will he have an example, a law, a criterion, a form to follow in the direction of
the little human society entrusted to him, with its beautiful and its ugly side, its good and
its bad, its vices and its virtues. This idea of the school as an organism, however much it
seems destined to overturn ideas of the past, will be the crucible from which will be turned
out in the near future all the reforms and many new ideas."

This view of the school as an organism, a social microcosm, a little society within the great
human society, having its resemblances to, and its differences from, the family and the nation,
is one that the new development of "child-study" seems bound to promote and advance. Rank paternalism
has made its exit from the great human society, but it has yet a strong hold upon the school.
It is only in comparatively recent times that motherhood, which, as Zmigrodzki says, has been
the basis of our civilization, has been allowed to exercise its best influence upon the scholastic
microcosm. Paternalism and celibacy must be made to yield up the strong grasp which they have
upon the educational institutions of the land, and the early years of the life of man must
be confided to the care of the mother-spirit, which the individual man and the race alike have
deified in their golden age. The mother who laid so well the foundations of the great human
society, the originator of its earliest arts, the warder of its faiths and its beliefs, the
mother, who built up the family, must be trusted with some large share in the building of the
school.

Child-Sociology.

In The Story of a Sand-Pile (255), President G. Stanley Hall has chronicled for us the life-course
of a primitive social community-nine summers of work and play by a number of boys with a sand-pile
in the yard of one of their parents. Here we are introduced to the originality and imitation
of children in agriculture, architecture, industrial arts, trade and commerce, money and exchange,
government, law and justice, charity, etc. The results of this spontaneous and varied exercise,
which, the parents say, "has been of about as much yearly educational value to the boys as
the eight months of school," and in contrast with which "the concentrative methodic unities
of Ziller seem artificial, and, as Bacon said of scholastic methods, very inadequate to subtlety
of nature," Dr. Hall sums up as follows (255. 696):--

"Very many problems that puzzle older brains have been met in simpler terms and solved wisely
and well. The spirit and habit of active and even prying observation has been greatly quickened.
Industrial processes, institutions, and methods of administration and organization have been
appropriated and put into practice. The boys have grown more companionable and rational, learning
many a lesson of self-control, and developed a spirit of self-help. The parents have been enabled
to control indirectly the associations of their boys, and, in a very mixed boy-community, to
have them in a measure under observation without in the least restricting their freedom. The
habit of loafing, and the evils that attend it, have been avoided, a strong practical and even
industrial bent has been given to their development, and much social morality has been taught
in the often complicated modus vivendi with others that has been evolved. Finally, this may
perhaps be called one illustration of the education according to nature we so often hear and
speak of."

This study of child-sociology is a rara avis in terra; it is to be hoped, however, that if
any other parents have "refrained from suggestions, and left the hand and fancy of the boys
to educate each other under the tuition of the mysterious play-instinct," they may be as fortunate
in securing for the deeds of their young off-spring, as observant and as sympathetic a historian
as he who has told the story of the sand-pile in that little New England town.

Bagehot, in the course of his chapter on "Nation-Making," observes (395. 91):--

"After such great matters as religion and politics, it may seem trifling to illustrate the
subject from little boys. But it is not trifling. The bane of philosophy is pomposity: people
will not see that small things are the miniatures of greater, and it seems a loss of abstract
dignity to freshen their minds by object lessons from what they know. But every boarding-school
changes as a nation changes. Most of us may remember thinking,' How odd it is that this half
should be so unlike last half; now we never go out of bounds, last half we were always going;
now we play rounders, then we played prisoner's base,' and so through all the easy life of
that time. In fact, some ruling spirits, some one or two ascendant boys, had left, one or two
others had come, and so all was changed. The models were changed, and the copies changed; a
different thing was praised, and a different thing bullied." It was in the spirit of this extract
(part of which he quotes), that the editor of the "Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical
and Political Science" happily admitted into that series of monographs, Mr. J. H. Johnson's
Rudimentary Society among Boys(272), a sociological study of peculiar interest and importance--"a
microcosm, not only of the agrarian, but of the political and economic history of society."
Mr. Johnson has graphically described the development of society among some fifty boys on the
farm belonging to the McDonogh School, not far from the city of Baltimore, Maryland; land-tenure,
boy-legislation, judicial procedure, boy-economy, are all treated of in detail and many analogies
with the life and habits of primitive peoples brought out, and the author has gone a long way
towards realizing the thesis that "To show a decided resemblance between barbarian political
institutions and those of communities of civilized children, would be a long step towards founding
a science of Social Embryology" (272. 61).

"Gangs."

Mr. Stewart Culin (212) in his interesting account of the "Street Games of Boys in Brooklyn,
N.Y." notices en passant the existence of "gangs" of boys--boys' societies of the ruder and
rougher kind. As evidence of the extent to which these organizations have flourished, the following
somewhat complete list of those known to have existed in the city of Philadelphia is given:--

Badgers, Bed Bugs, Bleeders, Blossoms, Bouncers, Buena Vistas, Buffaloes, Bull Dogs, Bullets,
Bunker Hills, Canaries, Clippers, Corkies, Cow Towners, Cruisers, Darts, Didos, Dirty Dozen,
Dumplingtown Hivers, Dung Hills, Muters, Forest Eose, Forties, Garroters, Gas House Tarriers,
Glassgous, Golden Hours, Gut Gang, Haymakers, Hawk-Towners, Hivers, Killers, Lancers, Lions,
Mountaineers, Murderers, Niggers, Pigs, Pluckers, Pots, Prairie Hens, Railroad Roughs, Rats,
Ramblers, Ravens, Riverside, Eovers, Schuylkill Eangers, Skinners, Snappers, Spigots, Tigers,
Tormentors, War Dogs, Wayne Towners.

Of these Mr. Culin remarks: "They had their laws and customs, their feuds and compacts. The
former were more numerous than the latter, and they fought on every possible occasion. A kind
of half-secret organization existed among them, and new members passed through a ceremony called
'initiation,' which was not confined to the lower classes, from which most of them were recruited.
Almost every Philadelphia boy, as late as twenty years ago, went through some sort of ordeal
when he first entered into active boyhood. Being triced up by legs and arms, and swung violently
against a gate, was usually part of this ceremony, and it no doubt still exists, although I
have no particular information, which indeed is rather difficult to obtain, as boys, while
they remain boys, are reticent concerning all such matters" (212. 236).

These street-organizations exist in other cities also, and have their ramifications in the
school-life of children, who either belong to, or are in some way subject to, these curious
associations. Every ward, nay, every street of any importance, seems to have its "gang," and
it is no small experience in a boy's life to pass the ordeal of initiation, battle with alien
organizations, and retire, as childhood recedes, unharmed by the primitive entourage.

No doubt, from these street-gangs many pass into the junior criminal societies which are known
to exist in many great cities, the training-schools for theft, prostitution, murder, the feeding-grounds
for the "White Caps," "Molly Maguires," "Ku-Klux," "Mafia," "Camorra," and other secret political
or criminal associations, who know but too well how to recruit their numbers from the young.
The gentler side of the social instinct is seen in the formation of friendships among children,
associations born of the nursery or the school-room which last often through life. The study
of these early friendships offers a tempting field for sociological research and investigation.

Secret Societies of the Young.

There are among primitive peoples many secret societies to which children and youth are allowed
to belong, or which are wholly composed of such.

Among the secret societies of the Kwakiutl Indians, of British Columbia, Dr. Boas mentions
the "Keki'qalak--( = the crows)," formed from the children (403. 53). The same author speaks
of the Tsimshians, another British Columbia tribe, in these terms (403. 57):--

"A man who is not a member of a secret society is a 'common man.' He becomes a middle-class
man after the first initiation, and attains higher rank by repeated initiations. The novice
disappears in the same way as among the Kwakiutl. It is supposed that he goes to heaven. During
the dancing season a feast is given, and while the women are dancing the novice is suddenly
said to have disappeared. If he is a child, he stays away four days; youths remain absent six
days, and grown-up persons several months. Chiefs are supposed to stay in heaven during the
fall and entire winter. When this period has elapsed, they suddenly reappear on the beach,
carried by an artificially-made monster belonging to their crest. Then all the members of the
secret society to which the novice is to belong gather and walk down in grand procession to
the beach to fetch the child. At this time the child's parents bring presents, particularly
elk skins, strung on a rope as long as the procession, to be given at a subsequent feast. The
people surround the novice and lead him into every house in order to show that he has returned.
Then he is taken to the house of his parents and a bunch of cedar-bark is fastened over the
door, to show that the place is tabooed, and nobody is allowed to enter." The dance and other
ceremonies which follow may be read of in Dr. Boas' report.

Dr. Daniels, in his study of Regeneration, has called attention to "seclusion" and "disappearance,"
followed by reappearance and adoption as members of society, as characteristic practices in
vogue among many savage and semi-civilized tribes with respect to children and those approaching
the age of puberty--a change of name sometimes accompanies the "entering upon the new life,"
as it is often called. Of the Australians we read: "The boy at eight or ten years of age must
leave the hut of his father and live in common with the other young men of the tribe. He is
called by another name than that which he has borne from birth and his diet is regulated to
some extent." In New Guinea, in Africa, and among some of the tribes of American aborigines
like habits prevail. The custom of certain Indians formerly inhabiting Virginia is thus described:
"After a very severe beating the boys are sent into a secluded spot. There they must stay nine
months and can associate with no human being. They are fed during this time with a kind of
intoxicating preparation of roots to make them forget all about their past life. After their
return home everything must seem strange to them. In this way it is thought that they 'begin
to live anew.' They are thought of as having been dead for a short time and are 'numbered among
the older citizens after forgetting that they once were boys'" (214. 11-13).

In the African district of Quoja existed a secret society called Belly-Paaro, "the members
of which had to spend a long time in a holy thicket. Whoever broke the rules of this society
was seized upon by the Jannanes, or spirits of the dead, who dwelt in the thicket and brought
thither, whence he was unable to return" (127. I. 240). Of this practice Kulischer remarks:
"'It is a death and a new birth, since they are wholly changed in the consecrated thicket,
dying to the old life and existence, and receiving a new understanding.' When the youths return
from the thicket, they act as if they had come into the world for the first time, and had never
known where their parents lived or their names, what sort of people they were, how to wash
themselves" (214. 12).

Of another part of Africa we read: "In the country of Ambamba each person must die once, and
come to life again. Accordingly, when a fetich-priest shakes his calabash at a village, those
men and youths whose hour is come fall into a state of death-like torpor, from which they recover
usually in the course of three days. But if there is any one that the fetich loves, him he
takes into the bush and buries in the fetich-house. Oftentimes he remains buried for a long
series of years. When he comes to life again, he begins to eat and drink as before, but his
reason is gone, and the fetich-man is obliged to train him and instruct him in the simplest
bodily movements, like a little child. At first the stick is only the instrument of education,
but gradually his senses come back to him, and he begins to speak. As soon as his education
is finished, the priest restores him to his parents. They seldom recognize their son, but accept
the express assurance of the feticero, who also reminds them of events in the past. In Ambamba
a man who has not passed through the process of dying and coming to life again is held in contempt,
nor is he permitted to join in the dance" (529. 56).

Some recollection, perhaps, of similar customs and ideas appears in the game of "Ruripsken,"
which, according to Schambach, is played by children in Gottingen: One of the children lies
on the ground, pretending to be dead, the others running up and singing out "Ruripsken, are
you alive yet?" Suddenly he springs up and seizes one of the other players, who has to take
his place, and so the game goes on.

Among the Mandingos of the coast of Sierra Leone, the girls approaching puberty are taken by
the women of the village to an out-of-the-way spot in the forest, where they remain for a month
and a day in strictest seclusion, no one being permitted to see them except the old woman who
has charge of their circumcision. Here they are instructed in religion and ceremonial, and
at the expiration of the time set, are brought back to town at night, and indulge in a sort
of Lady Godiva procession until daybreak. At the beginning of the dry-cool season among the
Mundombe "boys of from eight to ten years of age are brought by the 'kilombola-masters' into
a lonely uninhabited spot, where they remain for ninety days after their circumcision, during
which time not even their own parents may visit them. After the wound heals, they are brought
back to the village in triumph" (127. 1. 292).

With the Kaffirs the circumcision-rites last five months, "and during this whole time the youths
go around with their bodies smeared with white clay. They form a secret society, and dwell
apart from the village in a house built specially for them" (127. I. 292). Among the Susu there
is a secret organization known as the Semo, the members of which use a peculiar secret language,
and "the young people have to pass a whole year in the forest, and it is believed right for
them to kill any one who comes near the wood, and who is not acquainted with this secret tongue"
(127. I. 240). A very similar society exists among the tribes on the Rio Nunez. Here "the young
people live for seven or eight years a life of seclusion in the forest." In Angoy there is
the secret society of the Sindungo, membership in which passes from father to son; in Bomma,
the secret orders of the fetich Undembo; among the Shekiani and the Bakulai, that of the great
spirit Mwetyi, the chief object of which is to keep in subjection women and children, and into
which boys are initiated when between fourteen and eighteen years old; the Mumbo Jumbo society
of the Mandingos, into which no one under sixteen years of age is allowed to enter (127. I.
241-247).

Among the Mpongwe the women have a secret society called Njembe, the object of which is to
protect them against harsh treatment by the men. The initiation lasts several weeks, and girls
from ten to twelve years of age are admissible (127. I. 245).

Of the Indians of the western plains of the United States of America we are told: "At twelve
or thirteen these yearnings can no longer be suppressed; and, banded together, the youths of
from twelve to sixteen years roam over the country; and some of the most cold-blooded atrocities,
daring attacks, and desperate combats have been made by these children in pursuit of fame"
(432. 191).

Among the Mandingos of West Africa, during the two months immediately following their circumcision,
the youths "form a society called Solimana. They make visits to the neighbouring villages,
where they sing and dance and are feted by the inhabitants."

In Angola the boys "live for a month under the care of a fetich-priest, passing their time
in drum-beating, a wild sort of singing, and rat-hunting." Among the Beit Bidel "all the youths
who are to be consecrated as men unite together. They deck themselves out with beads, hire
a guitar-player, and retire to the woods, where they steal and kill goats from the herds of
their tribe, and for a whole week amuse themselves with sport and song. The Wanika youths of
like age betake themselves, wholly naked, to the woods, where they remain until they have slain
a man." On the coast of Guinea, after their circumcision, "boys are allowed to exact presents
from every one and to commit all sorts of excesses" (127. 1.291-4).

"Among the Fulas, boys who have been circumcised are a law unto themselves until the incision
has healed. They can steal or take whatever suits them without its being counted an offence.
In Bambuk, for fourteen days after the circumcision-fete, the young people are allowed to escape
from the supervision of their parents. From sunrise to sunset they can leave the paternal roof
and run about the fields near the village. They can demand meat and drink of whomsoever they
please, but may not enter a house unless they have been invited to do so." In Darfur, "after
their circumcision, the boys roamed around the adjacent villages and stole all the poultry"
(127. I. 291).

Modern Aspects.

These secret societies and outbursts of primitive lawlessness recall at once to our attention
the condition of affairs at some of our universities, colleges, and larger schools. The secret
societies and student-organizations, with their initiations, feasts, and extravagant demonstrations,
their harassing of the uninitiated, their despisal of municipal, collegiate, even parental
authority, and their oftentime contempt and disregard of all social order, their not infrequent
excesses and debauches, carry us back to their analogues in the institutions of barbarism and
savagery, the accompaniments of the passage from childhood to manhood. Of late years, the same
spirit has crept into our high schools, and is even making itself felt in the grammar grades,
so imitative are the school-children of their brothers and sisters in the universities and
colleges. Pennalism and fagging, so prevalent of old time in Germany and England, are not without
their representatives in this country. The "freshman" in the high schools and colleges is often
made to feel much as the savage does who is serving his time of preparation for admission into
the mysteries of Mumbo- Jumbo.

In the revels of "May Day," "Midsummer," "Eogation Week," "Whitsuntide," "All Fools' Day,"
"New Year's Day," "Hallow E'en," "Christmas," "Easter," etc., children throughout England and
in many parts of Europe during the Middle Ages took a prominent part and role in the customs
and practices which survive even to-day, as may be seen in Brand, Grimm, and other books dealing
with popular customs and festivals, social fetes and merry-makings.

In Tennyson's May Queen we read:--

 "You must wake and call me early, call me early, mother dear;
  To-morrow'll be the happiest time of all the glad New Year;
  Of all the glad New Year, mother, the maddest, merriest day;
  For I'm to be Queen o' the May, mother, I'm to be Queen o' the May."

And a "mad, merry day" it certainly was in "merry England," when the fairest lass in the village
was chosen "Queen of the May," and sang merry songs of Robin Hood and Maid Marian.

Polydore Virgil tells us that in ancient Home the "youths used to go into the fields and spend
the Calends of May in dancing and singing in honour of Flora, goddess of fruits and flowers."
Westermarck seems to think some of these popular customs have something to do with the increase
of the sexual function in spring and early summer (166. 30).

In seizing upon this instinct for society-making among children and youth lies one of the greatest
opportunities for the prevention of crime and immorality the world has ever known. To turn
to good ends this spontaneity of action, to divert into channels of usefulness these currents
of child-activity, will be to add immensely to the equipment of mankind in the struggle with
vice. A certain bishop of the early Christian Church is credited with having declared that,
if the authorities only took charge of the children soon enough, there would be no burning
of heretics, no scandalous schisms in the body ecclesiastic; and there is a good deal of truth
in this observation.

The Catholic Church, and many of the other Christian churches have seen the wisdom of appealing
to, and availing themselves of, the child-power in social and socio-religious questions. Not
a little of the great spread of the temperance movement in America and Europe of recent years
is due to the formation of children's societies,--Bands of Hope, Blue Ribbon Clubs, Junior
Temperance Societies and Prohibition Clubs, Young Templars' Associations, Junior Father Matthew
Leagues, and the like,-- where a legitimate sphere is open to the ardour and enthusiasm of
the young of both sexes. The great Methodist Church has been especially quick to recognize
the value of this kind of work, and the junior chapters of the "Epworth League"--whose object
is "to promote intelligence and loyal piety in its young members and friends and to train them
in experimental religion, practical benevolence, and church work"--now numbers some three thousand,
with a membership of about one hundred and twenty thousand. This society was organized at Cleveland,
Ohio, May 15, 1889. The "Young People's Society of Christian Endeavour," the first society
of which was established at Portland, Maine, February 2,1881, with the object of "promoting
an earnest Christian life among its members, increasing their mutual acquaintance, and making
them more useful in the service of God," has now enrolled nearly thirty-four thousand "Companies,"
with a total membership (active and associate) all over the world of over two million; of these
societies 28,696 are in the United States and 2243 in Canada. Another society of great influence,
having a membership in America and the Old World of some thirty-five thousand, is the "Ministering
Children's League," founded by the Countess of Meath in 1885, and having as objects "to promote
kindness, unselfishness, and the habit of usefulness amongst children, and to create in their
minds an earnest desire to help the needy and suffering; to give them some definite work to
do for others, that this desire may be brought to good effect"; there are also the "Lend-a-Hand
Clubs" of the Unitarian Church. The Episcopal Church has its "Girls' Friendly Societies," its
"Junior Auxiliaries to the Board of Missions"; its "Brotherhood of St. Andrew," and "Brotherhood
of Andrew and Philip," for young men. For those of not too youthful years, the "Young Men's
Christian Association," the associations of the "White," "Red," and "Iron Cross" exist in the
various churches, besides many other "Guilds," "Alliances," "Leagues," etc. For those outside
the churches there are "Boys' Clubs," and "Girls' Societies" in the cities and larger towns.
The "Bands of Mercy" and the branches of the "Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals"
exert a widespread influence for good; while several of the secret benevolent associations,
such as the "Foresters," for example, have instituted junior lodges, from which the youth are
later on drafted into the society of their elders. There exist also many social clubs and societies,
more or less under the supervision of the older members of the community, in which phases of
human life other than the purely religious or benevolent find opportunity to display themselves;
and between these and the somewhat sterner church-societies a connecting link is formed by
the "Friday Night Clubs" of the Unitarian Church and the "Young People's Associations" of other
liberal denominations. In the home itself, this society instinct is recognized, and the list
of children's teas, dinners, parties, "receptions," "doll-parties," "doll-shows," etc., would
be a long one. Among all peoples, barbarous as well as civilized, since man is by nature a
social animal, the instinct for society develops early in the young, and the sociology of child-hood
offers a most inviting field for research and investigation both in the Old World and in the New.

CHAPTER XV.

THE CHILD AS LINGUIST.

  Yet she carried a doll as she toddled alone,
  And she talked to that doll in a tongue her own.--Joaquin Miller.

  Among savages, children are, to a great extent, the originators
  of idiomatic diversities.--Charles Rau.

It was as impossible for the first child endowed with this faculty not to speak in the presence
of a companion similarly endowed, as it would be for a nightingale or a thrush not to carol
to its mate. The same faculty creates the same necessity in our days, and its exercise by young
children, when accidentally isolated from the teachings and influence of grown companions,
will readily account for the existence of all the diversities of speech on our globe.--Horatio
Hale.

Some scientists have held that mankind began with the Homo Alalus, speechless, dumb man, an
hypothesis now looked npon by the best authorities as untenable; and the folk have imagined
that, were not certain procedures gone through with upon the new-born child, it would remain
dumb through life, and, if it were allowed to do certain things, a like result would follow.
Ploss informs us that the child, and the mother, while she is still suckling it, must not,
in Bohemia, eat fish, else, since fish are mute, the child would be so also; in Servia, the
child is not permitted to eat any fowl that has not already crowed, or it would remain dumb
for a very long time; in Germany two little children, not yet able to speak, must not kiss
each other, or both will be dumb.

The Frenum.

Our English phrase, "an unbridled tongue," has an interesting history and entourage of folk-lore.
The subject has been quite recently discussed by Dr. Chervin, of the Institute for Stammerers
at Paris (205). Citing the lines of Boileau:--

  "Tout charme en un enfant dont la langue sans fard,
  A peine du filet encore debarrassee
  Sait d'un air innocent begayer sa pensee,"

he notes the wide extension of the belief that the cutting of the filet, or frein, the frenum,
or "bridle" of the tongue of the newborn infant facilitates, or makes possible, articulate
speech. According to M. Sebillot, the cutting of the sublet, as it is called, is quite general
in parts of Brittany (Haute Bretagne), and M. Moisset states that in the Yonne it is the universal
opinion that neglect to do so would cause the new-born child to remain dumb for life; M. Desaivre
cites the belief in Poitou that, unless the lignoux were cut in the child at birth, it would
prevent its sucking, and, later on, its speaking. The operation is usually performed by nurses
and midwives, with the nail of the little finger, which is allowed to grow excessively long
for the purpose (205. 6). Dr. Chervin discusses the scientific aspects of the subject, and
concludes that the statistics of stammering and the custom of cutting the frenum of the tongue
do not stand in any sort of correlation with each other, and that this ancient custom, noted
by Celsus, has no real scientific raison d'etre (205. 9). We say that a child is "tongue-tied,"
and that one "makes too free with his tongue"; in French we find: Il a le filet bien coupe,
"he is a great talker," and in the eighteenth century Il n'a pas de filet was in use; a curious
German expression for "tongue-tied" is mundfaul, "mouth-lazy."

Following up the inquiry of Dr. Chervin in France, M. Hofler of Tolz has begun a similar investigation
for Germany (263). He approves of the suggestion of Dr. Chervin, that the practice of cutting
the frenum of the tongue has been induced by the inept name frenulwm, frein, Bandchen, given
by anatomists to the object in question. According to H. Carstens the frenulum is called in
Low German keekel-reem or kikkel-reem, which seems to be derived from kakeln, "to cry, shriek,"
and reem, "band, cord," so that the word really signifies "speech-band." If it is cut in children
who have difficulty in speaking before the first year of life, or soon after, they will be
cured of stuttering and made to speak well. To a man or woman who does a good deal of talking,
who has "the gift of the gab," the expression Em (ehr) is de keekelreem gut snaden = "His (her)
frenum has been well cut," is applied. In some parts of Low Germany the operation is performed
for quite a different reason, viz., when the child's tongue cannot take hold of the mother's
breast, but always slips off. Hofler mentions the old custom of placing beneath the child's
tongue a piece of ash-bark (called Schwindholz), so that the organ of speech may not vanish
(schwinden); this is done in the case of children who are hard of speech (263.191, 281).

Ploss states that in Konigsberg (Prussia) tickling the soles of the feet of a little child
is thought to occasion stuttering; in Italy the child will learn to stutter, unless, after
it has been weaned, it is given to drink for the first time out of a hand-bell (326. II. 286).

Among the numerous practices in vogue to hasten the child's acquisition of speech, or to make
him ready and easy of tongue, are the following: some one returned from the communion breathes
into the child's mouth (Austrian Silesia); the mother, when, after supper on Good Friday, she
suckles the child for the last time, breathes into its mouth (Bohemia); the, child is given
to drink water out of a cow-bell (Servia); when the child, on the arm of its mother, pays the
first visit to neighbours or friends, it is presented with three eggs, which are pressed three
times to his mouth, with the words, "as the hens cackle, the child learns to prattle" (Thuringia,
the Erzgebirge, Bavaria, Franconia, and the Harz); when a child is brought to be baptized,
one of the relatives must make a christening-letter (Pathenbrief), and, with the poem or the
money contained in it, draw three crosses through the mouth of the child (Konigsberg) (326.
II. 205).

Speech-Exercises.

Ploss has a few words to say about "Volksgebrauchliche Sprach- Exercitien," or "Zungen-Exercitien,"
the folk-efforts to teach the child to overcome the difficulties of speech (326. II. 285, 286),
and more recently Treichel (373) has treated in detail of the various methods employed in Prussia.
In these exercises examples and difficult words are given in several languages, alliteration,
sibilation, and all quips and turns of consonantal and vocalic expression, word-position, etc.,
are in use to test the power of speech alike of child and adult. Treichel observes that in
the schools even, use is made of foreign geographical names, names of mountains in Asia, New
Zealand, and Aztec names in Mexico; the plain of Apapurinkasiquinilschiquasaqua, from Immermann's
Munchhausen, is also cited as having been put to the like use. The title of doctors' dissertations
in chemistry are also recommended (373. 124).

There are alliterative sentences for all the letters of the alphabet, and many others more
or less alliterative, while the humorous papers contain many exaggerated examples of this sort
of thing. Of the last, the following on "Hottentottentaten" will serve as an instance:--

 "In dem wilden Land der Kaftern,
  Wo die Hottentotten trachten
  Holie Hottentottentitel
  Zu erwerben in den Schlachten,
  Wo die Hottentottentaktik
  Lasst ertonen fern und nah
  Auf dem Hottentottentamtam
  Hottentottentattratah;
  Wo die Hottentottentrotteln,
  Eh' sie stampfen stark und kuhn.
  Hottentottentatowirung
  An sioh selber erst vollzieh'n,
  Wo die Hottentotten tuten
  Auf dem Horn voll Eleganz
  Und nachher mit Grazie tanzen
  Hottentottentotentanz,--
  Dorten bin ich mal gewesen
  Und iclh habe schwer gelitten,
  Weil ich Hottentotten trotzte,
  Unter Hottentottentritten;
  So 'ne Hottentottentachtel,
  Die ist namlich furchterlich
  Und ich leid' noch heute
  An dem Hottentottentatterich" (373. 222).

In our older English, and American readers and spelling-books we meet with much of a like nature,
and the use of these test-phrases and sentences has not yet entirely departed from the schools.
Familiar are: "Up the high hill he heaved a huge round stone; around the rugged riven rock
the ragged rascal rapid ran; Peter Piper picked a peck of prickly pears from the prickly-pear
trees on the pleasant prairies," and many others still in use traditionally among the school-children
of to-day, together with linguistic exercises of nonsense-syllables and the like, pronouncing
words backwards, etc.

In French we have: (1) L'origine ne se desoriginalisera jamais de son originalite; (2) A la
sante de celle, qui tient la sentinelle devant la citadelle de votre coeur! (3) Car Didon dina,
dit-on, Du dos d'un dodu dindon.

In Polish: (1) Bydlo bylo, bydlo bedzie (It was cattle, it remains cattle); (2) Podawala baba
babie przez piec malowane grabie (A woman handed the woman over the stove a painted rake);
(3) Chrzaszcz brzmi w trzinie (The beetle buzzes in the pipe). Latin and Greek are also made
use of for similar purpose. Treichel cites, among other passages, the following: (1) Quamuis
sint sub aqua, sub aqua maledicere tentant (Ovid, Metam. VI. 376); (2) At tuba terribili sonitu
taratantara dixit (Virgil, Aen. IX. 503); (3) Quadrupedante putrem sonitu quatit ungula campum
(Virgil, Aen. VIII. 596); (4) [Greek: Aytis epeita pedonde kylindeto laas anchidaes] (Homer,
Odyss. II. 598); (5) [Greek: Trichtha te kai tetrachtha dieschesen is anemoio] (Homer, Odyss.
IX. 71, II. III. 363); (6) [Greek: 'O makar 'Adreidae moiraegenes olbiodaimon] (Homer, Il.
III. 182). These customs are not confined, however, to the civilized nations of Europe. Dr.
Pechuel-Loesche tells us that, among the negroes of the Loango coast of Africa, the mother
teaches the child little verses, just as illogical as the test-sentences often are which are
employed in other parts of the world, and containing intentionally difficult arrangements of
words. The child whose skilful tongue can repeat these without stumbling, is shown to visitors
and is the cause of much admiration and merriment. And this exhibition of the child's linguistic
and mnemonic powers finds vogue among other races than those of the dark continent (373. 125).

Alphabet-Rhymes.

A very curious development of child-linguistics is seen in the so-called ABC Rhymes. H. A.
Carstensen reports from Risummoor in Low Germany the following arrangement and interpretation
of the letters of the alphabet (199. 55):--

  A--Aewel  B--baeget  C(K)--Kaege
  A--Abel   B--bakes   C(K)--cakes.

  D--Detlef  E--et    F--fale.
  D--Detlef  E--eats  F--much.

  G--Grutte  H--Hans  J--jaeget K--Kraege.
  G--Great   H--Jack  J--hunts  K--crows.

  L--Lotte  M--maeget  N--noerne.
  L--Lutje  M--makes   N--names.

  O--Okke  P--plokket  Q--Kuerde.
  O--Okke  P--makes    Q--wool-cards.

  R--Rikkert  S--sait  T--tuffle.
  R--Richard  S--sews  T--slippers

  U--Uethet   V--Volkert  W--waeder?
  U--Fetches  V--Volkert  W--water?

From the North Frisian islands of Silt and Fohr the following ABC rhymes have been recorded,
consisting mostly of personal names (199. 192):--

1. From Silt: Anna Boyken, Christian Dojken, Erkel Fredden, Gondel Hansen, Jens Kuk, Lorenz
Mommen, Niels Otten, Peter Quotten, Rink Swennen, Theide Uwen, Volkert, Wilhelm, exerzere.

2. From Fohr: Arest Buhn, Cike Duhn, Ehlen Frodden, Girre Hayen, Ingke Kayen, Lurenz Munje,
Nahmen Ott, Peter Quott, Rekkert skar, Trintje um, qui weg, x, y, z.

3. From Fohr: Antje brawt; Cisele drug; Ehlen fald; Gontje holp; Ingke knad; Lena mad; Nahmen
Okken; Peter Quast;

Rord Rutjer; Sab Sutjer; Sonk Stein; Thur Ordert; Wogen wuhlet; Yng Zuhlet.

From Ditmarschen we have the following (199. 290):--

1. From Suderstapel in Stapelholm: A-Beeter, C-Deeter, E-Efter, G-Hater, I-Kater, L-Emder,
N-Oter, Peter Ruster sien Swester harr Buxsen von Manchester, harr'n Kleed vun Kattun, weer
Kofft bi Jud'n (Peter Ruster his sister has breeches from Manchester, has a dress of cotton,
who buys of Jews).

2. From Tonningstedt and Feddringen: A-Beeter, C-Deeter, E-Efter, G-Hater, J-Kater, L-Emder,
N-Oter, P-Kuter, L-Ester, T-Uter, V-Weeter, X-Zeeter.

In Polish we have a rather curious rhyme (199. 260): Adam Babkie Cukier Dal, Ewa Figi Gryzla;
Hanko, Jeko, Karol Lerch Nosi Orla Papa Ruskigo (Adam to the old woman sugar gave, Eve figs
nibbled; Hanko, Jeko, Karol, and Lerch carry the eagle of the Ruthenian priest). Another variant
runs: Adam Babi Cucker daje Ewa figi grizi Hala, idzie Kupic' lala mama nie pozwala (199. 150).

At Elberfeld, according to O. Schell, the following rhyme was in use about the middle of this
century (199. 42): Abraham Bockmann; Cepter Dickmann; Engel Fuawenkel; Gretchen Hahn; Isaak
Kreier; Lottchen Meyer; Nikolas Olk; Pitter Quack; Rudolf Simon; Tante Uhler; Vater Wettschreck;
Xerxes York.

From Leipzig, L. Frankel reports the following as given off in a singing tone with falling
rhythm:--

B a ba, b e be, b i bi--babebi; b o bo, b u bu--bobu; ba, be, bi, bo, bu--babebibobu. C a ca
(pron. za, not ka), c e ce, c i ci --caceci; c o co, c u cu--cocu; ca, ce, ci, co, cu-cacecicocu,
etc.

From various parts of Ditmarschen come these rhymes:--
   A-B ab,                 |   A-B ab,
   Mus sitt in't Schapp,   |   Mouse sits in the cupboard,
   Kater darfar,           |   Cat in frount,
   Mak apen de Dar.        |   Open the door.

These child-rhymes and formulae from North Germany find their cognates in our own nursery-rhymes
and explanatory letter-lists, which take us back to the very beginnings of alphabetic writing.
An example is the familiar:--

  "A was an Archer that shot at a frog,
   B was a Butcher that had a big dog," etc., etc.

Letter-Formula.

Here belong also the curious formula known all over the United States and English-speaking
Canada, to which attention has recently been called by Professor Frederick Starr. When the
word Preface is seen, children repeat the words, "Peter Rice Eats Fish and Catches Eels," or
backwards, "Eels Catch Alligators; Father Eats Raw Potatoes." Professor Starr says that the
second formula is not quite so common as the first; the writer's experience in Canada leads
him to express just the opposite opinion. Professor Starr gives also formula for Contents and
Finis as follows: "Five Irish Niggers In Spain," backwards "Six Irish Niggers In France"; "Children
Ought Not To Eat Nuts Till Sunday" (355. 55). Formula like these appear to be widespread among
school-children, who extract a good deal of satisfaction from the magic meaning of these quaint
expressions.

Another series of formula, not referred to by Professor Starr, is that concerned with the interpretation
of the numerous abbreviations and initials found in the spelling-book and dictionary. In the
manufacture of these much childish wit and ingenuity are often expended. In the writer's schoolboy
days there was quite a series of such expansions of the letters which stood for the various
secret and benevolent societies of the country. I. O. G. T. (Independent Order of Good Templars),
for example, was made into "I Often Get Tight (i.e. drunk)," which was considered quite a triumph
of juvenile interpretative skill. Another effort was in the way of explaining the college degrees:
B.A. = "Big Ape," M.A. = "Matured Ape," B.D. = "Bull-Dog," LL.D. = "Long-Legged Devil," etc.
Still another class is represented by the interpretations of the German u. A. w. g. (our R.
S. V. P.), i.e. "um Antwort wird gebeten" (an answer is requested), for which A. Treichel records
the following renderings: um Ausdauer wird gebeten (perseverance requested); und Abends wird
getanzt (and in the evening there is dancing); und Abends wird gegeigt (and in the evening
there is fiddling); und Abends wird gegessen (and in the evening there is eating); und Andere
werden gelastert (and others are abused) (392. V. 114). This side of the linguistic inventiveness
of childhood, with its double-entendre, its puns, its folk-etymologies, its keen discernment
of hidden resemblances and analogies, deserves more study than it has apparently received.

The formulae and expressions belonging to such games as marbles are worthy of consideration,
for here the child is given an opportunity to invent new words and phrases or to modify and
disfigure old ones.

Formulae of Defiance, etc.

The formulae of defiance, insult, teasing, etc., rhymed and in prose, offer much of interest.
Peculiarities of physical constitution, mental traits, social relationships, and the like,
give play to childish fancy and invention. It would be a long list which should include all
the material corresponding to such as the following, well known among English-speaking school-children:--

  1. Georgie Porgie, Puddin' Pie,
     Kissed a girl and made her cry!
  2. Blue-eyed beauty,
     Do your mother's duty!
  3. Black eye, pick a pie,
     Turn around and tell a lie!
  4. Nigger, nigger, never-die,
     Black face and shiny eye!

Interesting is the following scale of challenging, which Professor J. P. Fruit reports from
Kentucky (430. 229):--

  "I dare you; I dog dare you; I double dog dare you.
   I dare you; I black dog dare you; I double black dog dare you."

The language of the school-yard and street, in respect to challenges, fights, and contests
of all sorts, has an atmosphere of its own, through which sometimes the most clear-sighted
older heads find it difficult to penetrate.

The American Dialect Society is doing good work in hunting out and interpreting many of these
contributions of childhood to the great mosaic of human speech, and it is to be hoped that
in this effort they will have the co-operation of all the teachers of the country, for this
branch of childish activity will bear careful and thorough investigation.

Plant-Names.

In the names of some of the plants with which they early come into contact we meet with examples
of the ingenuity of children. In Mrs. Bergen's (400) list of popular American plant-names are
included some which come from this source, for example: "frog-plant (Sedum Telephium)," from
the children's custom of "blowing up a leaf so as to make the epidermis puff up like a frog";
"drunkards (Gaulteria procumbens)," because "believed by children to intoxicate"; "bread-and-butter
(Smilax rotundifolia)," because "the young leaves are eaten by children"; "velvets (Viola pedata),"
a corruption of the "velvet violets" of their elders; "splinter-weed (Antennaria plantaginifolia),"
from "the appearance of the heads"; "ducks (Cypripedium)," because "when the flower is partly
filled with sand and set afloat on water, it looks like a duck"; "pearl-grass (Glyceria Canadensis),"
a name given at Waverley, Massachusetts, "by a few children, some years ago." This list might
easily be extended, but sufficient examples have been given to indicate the extent to which
the child's mind has been at work in this field. Moreover, many of the names now used by the
older members of the community, may have been coined originally by children and then adopted
by the others, and the same origin must probably be sought out for not a few of the folk-etymologies
and word-distortions which have so puzzled the philologists.

"Physonyms."

In an interesting paper on "physonyms,"--i.e. "words to which their signification is imparted
by certain physiological processes, common to the race everywhere, and leading to the creation
of the same signs with the same meaning in totally sundered linguistic stocks"--occurs the
following passage (193. cxxxiii.):--

"One of the best known and simplest examples is that of the widespread designation of 'mother'
by such words as mama, nana, ana; and of 'father' by such as papa, baba, tata. Its true explanation
has been found to be that, in the infant's first attempt to utter articulate sounds, the consonants
m, p, and t decidedly preponderate; and the natural vowel a, associated with these, yields
the child's first syllables. It repeats such sounds as ma-ma-ma or pa-pa-pa, without attaching
any meaning to them; the parents apply these sounds to themselves, and thus impart to them
their signification."

Other physonyms are words of direction and indication of which the radical is k or g; the personal
pronouns radical in n, m (first person), k, t, d (second person); and demonstratives and locatives
whose radical is s. The frequency of these sounds in the language of children is pointed out
also by Tracy in his monograph on the psychology of childhood. In the formation and fixation
of the onomatopes with which many languages abound some share must be allotted to the child.
A recent praiseworthy study of onomatopes in the Japanese language has been made by Mr. Aston,
who defines an onomatope as "the artistic representation of an inarticulate sound or noise
by means of an articulate sound" (394. 333). The author is of opinion that from the analogy
of the lower animals the inference is to be drawn that "mankind occupied themselves for a long
time with their own natural cries before taking the trouble to imitate for purposes of expression
sounds not of their own making" (394. 334). The latter process was gradual and extended over
centuries. For the child or the "child-man" to imitate the cry of the cock so successfully
was an inspiration; Mr. Aston tells us that "the formation of a word like cock-a-doodle-do,
is as much a work of individual genius as Hamlet or the Laocoon" (394. 335). Of certain modern
aspects of onomatopoia the author observes: "There is a kindred art, viz. that of the exact
imitation of animal cries and other sounds, successfully practised by some of our undergraduates
and other young people, as well as by tame ravens and parrots. It probably played some part
in the development of language, but I can only mention it here" (394. 333).

College Yells.

The "college yells" of the United States and Canada offer an inviting field for study in linguistic
atavism and barbaric vocal expression. The New York World Almanac for 1895 contains a list
of the "yells" of some three hundred colleges and universities in the United States. Out of
this great number, in which there is a plenitude of "Rah! rah! rah!" the following are especially
noteworthy:--

Benzonia: Kala, kala, kala! Sst, Boom, Gah! Benzo, Benzon-iah! Whooo!

Buchtel: Ye-ho! Ye-hesa! Hisa! Wow wow! Buchtel!

Dartmouth: Wah, who, wah! wah who wah! da-da-da, Dartmouth! wah who wah! T-i-g-e-r!

Heidelberg: Killi-killick! Rah, rah, Zik, zik! Ha! Ha! Yi! Hoo! Baru! Zoo! Heidelberg!

The "yell" of Ohio Wesleyan University, "O-wee-wi-wow! Ala-ka-zu-ki-zow! Ra-zi-zi-zow! Viva!
Viva! O. W. U.!" is enough to make the good man for whom the institution is named turn uneasily
in his grave. The palm must, however, be awarded to the University of North Dakota, whose remarkable
"yell" is this: "Odz-dzo-dzi! Ri-ri-ri! Hy-ah! Hy-ah! North Dakota! and Sioux War-Cry." Hardly
have the ancestors of Sitting Bull and his people suspected the immortality that awaited their
ancient slogan.

As is the case with other practices in collegiate life, these "yells" seem to be making their
way down into the high and grammar schools, as well as into the private secondary schools,
the popularity and excitement of field-sports and games, baseball, foot-ball, etc., giving
occasion enough for their frequent employment.

Here fall also the spontaneous shouts and cries of children at work and at play, the Ki-yah!
and others of a like nature whose number is almost infinite.

Mr. Charles Ledyard Norton, in his Political Americanisms (New York, 1890), informs us that
"the peculiar staccato cheer, 'rah, rah, rah!'" was probably invented at Harvard in 1864. In
the Blaine campaign of 1884 it was introduced into political meetings and processions together
with "the custom, also borrowed from the colleges, of spelling some temporarily significant
catch-word in unison, as, for instance, 'S-o-a-p!' the separate letters being pronounced in
perfect time by several hundred voices at once." The same authority thinks that the idea of
calling out "Blaine--Blaine--James G. Blaine!" in cadenced measure after the manner of the
drill-sergeants, "Left--left--left--right--left!" an idea which had many imitations and elaborations
among the members of both the great political parties, can be traced back to the Columbia College
students (p. 120).

The Child as an Innovator in Language.

But the role of the child in the development of language is concerned with other things than
physonyms and onomatopes. In his work on Brazilian ethnography and philology, Dr. von Martius
writes (522. 43): "A language is often confined to a few individuals connected by relationship,
forming thus, as it were, a family institute, which isolates those who use it from all neighbouring
or distant tribes so completely that an understanding becomes impossible." This intimate connection
of language with the family, this preservation and growth of language, as a family institution,
has, as Dr. von Martius points out, an interesting result (522. 44):--

"The Brazilians frequently live in small detachments, being kept apart by the chase; sometimes
only a few families wander together; often it is one family alone. Within the family the language
suffers a constant remodelling. One of the children will fail to catch precisely the radical
sound of a word; and the weak parents, instead of accustoming it to pronounce the word correctly,
will yield, perhaps, themselves, and adopt the language of the child. We often were accompanied
by persons of the same band; yet we noticed in each of them slight differences in accentuation
and change of sound. His comrades, however, understood him, and they were understood by him.
As a consequence, their language never can become stationary, but will constantly break off
into new dialects." Upon these words of von Martius (reported by Dr. Oscar Peschel), Dr. Charles
Rau comments as follows (522. 44): "Thus it would seem that, among savages, children are to
a great extent the originators of idiomatic diversities. Dr. Peschel places particular stress
on this circumstance, and alludes to the habit of over-indulgent parents among refined nations
of conforming to the humours of their children by conversing with them in a kind of infantine
language, until they are several years old. Afterward, of course, the rules of civilized life
compel these children to adopt the proper language; but no such necessity exists among a hunter
family in the primeval forests of South America; here the deviating form of speech remains,
and the foundation of a new dialect is laid."

Children's Languages.

But little attention has been paid to the study of the language of children among primitive
people. In connection with a brief investigation of child-words in the aboriginal tongues of
America, Mr. Horatio Hale communicated to the present writer the following observation of M.
l'Abbe Cuoq, of Montreal, the distinguished missionary and linguist: "As far as the Iroquois
in particular are concerned, it is certain that this language [langage enfantin] is current
in every family, and that the child's relatives, especially the mothers, teach it to their
children, and that the latter consequently merely repeat the words of which it is composed"
(201. 322). That these "child-words" were invented by children, the Abbe does not seem to hint.

The prominence of the mother-influence in the child's linguistic development is also accentuated
by Professor Mason, who devotes a chapter of his recent work on woman's part in the origin
and growth of civilization to woman as a linguist. The author points out how "women have helped
to the selection and preservation of language through onomatopoeia," their vocal apparatus
being "singularly adapted to the imitation of many natural sounds," and their ears "quick to
catch the sounds within the compass of the voice" (113. 188-204). To the female child, then,
we owe a good deal of that which is now embodied in our modern speech, and the debt of primitive
races is still greater. Many a traveller has found, indeed, a child the best available source
of linguistic information, when the idling warriors in their pride, and the hard-working women
in their shyness, or taboo-caused fear, failed to respond at all to his requests for talk or song.

Canon Farrar, in his Chapters on Language, makes the statement: "It is a well-known fact that
the neglected children, in some of the Canadian and Indian villages, who are left alone for
days, can and do invent for themselves a sort of lingua franca, partially or wholly unintelligible
to all except themselves" (200. 237). Mr. W. W. Newell speaks of the linguistic inventiveness
of children in these terms (313. 24):--

"As infancy begins to speak by the free though unconscious combination of linguistic elements,
so childhood retains in language a measure of freedom. A little attention to the jargons invented
by children might have been serviceable to certain philologists. Their love of originality
finds the tongue of their elders too commonplace; besides, their fondness for mystery requires
secret ways of communication. They, therefore, often create (so to speak) new languages, which
are formed by changes in the mother-speech, but sometimes have quite complicated laws of structure
and a considerable arbitrary element." The author cites examples of the "Hog Latin" of New
England schoolchildren, in the elaboration of which much youthful ingenuity is expended. Most
interesting is the brief account of the "cat" language:--

"A group of children near Boston invented the cat language, so called because its object was
to admit of free intercourse with cats, to whom it was mostly talked, and by whom it was presumed
to be comprehended. In this tongue the cat was naturally the chief subject of nomenclature;
all feline positions were observed and named, and the language was rich in such epithets, as
Arabic contains a vast number of expressions for lion. Euphonic changes were very arbitrary
and various, differing for the same termination; but the adverbial ending -ly was always -osh;
terribly, terriblosh. A certain percentage of words were absolutely independent, or at least
of obscure origin. The grammar tended to Chinese or infantine simplicity; ta represented any
case of any personal pronoun. A proper name might vary in sound according to the euphonic requirements
of the different Christian names by which it was preceded. There were two dialects, one, however,
stigmatized as provincial. This invention of language must be very common, since other cases
have fallen under our notice in which children have composed dictionaries of such" (313. 25).

This characterization of child-speech offers not a few points of contact with primitive languages,
and might indeed almost have been written of one of them.

More recently Colonel Higginson (262) has given some details of "a language formed for their
own amusement by two girls of thirteen or thereabouts, both the children of eminent scientific
men, and both unusually active-minded and observant." This dialect "is in the most vivid sense
a living language," and the inventors, who keep pruning and improving it, possess a manuscript
dictionary of some two hundred words, which, it is to be hoped, will some day be published.
An example or two from those given by Colonel Higginson will serve to indicate the general
character of the vocabulary:--

bojiwassis, "the feeling you have just before you jump, don't you know--when you mean to jump
and want to do it, and are just a little bit afraid to do it."

spygri, "the way you feel when you have just jumped and are awfully proud of it."

pippadolify, "stiff and starched like the young officers at Washington."

Other information respecting this "home-made dialect," with its revising academy of children
and its standard dictionary, must be sought in the entertaining pages of Colonel Higginson,
who justly says of this triumph of child-invention: "It coins thought into syllables, and one
can see that, if a group of children like these were taken and isolated until they grew up,
they would forget in time which words were their own and which were in Worcester's Dictionary;
and stowish and krono and bojiwassis would gradually become permanent forms of speech" (262. 108).

In his valuable essay on The Origin of Languages (249), Mr. Horatio Hale discusses a number
of cases of invention of languages by children, giving interesting, though (owing to the neglect
of the observers) not very extensive, details of each.

One of the most curious instances of the linguistic inventiveness of children is the case of
the Boston twins (of German descent on the mother's side) born in 1860, regarding whose language
a few details were given by Miss E. H. Watson, who says: "At the usual age these twins began
to talk, but, strange to say, not their 'mother-tongue.' They had a language of their own,
and no pains could induce them to speak anything else. It was in vain that a little sister,
five years older than they, tried to make them speak their native language,--as it would have
been. They persistently refused to utter a syllable of English. Not even the usual first words,
'papa,' 'mamma,' 'father,' 'mother,' it is said, did they ever speak; and, said the lady who
gave this information to the writer,--who was an aunt of the children, and whose home was with
them,--they were never known during this interval to call their mother by that name. They had
their own name for her, but never the English. In fact, though they had the usual affections,
were rejoiced to see their father at his returning home each night, playing with him, etc.,
they would seem to have been otherwise completely taken up, absorbed, with each other.... The
children had not yet been to school; for, not being able to speak their 'own English,' it seemed
impossible to send them from home. They thus passed the days, playing and talking together
in their own speech, with all the liveliness and volubility of common children. Their accent
was German,--as it seemed to the family. They had regular words, a few of which the family
learned sometimes to distinguish; as that, for example, for carriage [ni-si-boo-a], which,
on hearing one pass in the street, they would exclaim out, and run to the window" (249. 11).
We are further informed that, when the children were six or seven years old, they were sent
to school, but for a week remained "perfectly mute"; indeed, "not a sound could be heard from
them, but they sat with their eyes intently fixed upon the children, seeming to be watching
their every motion,--and no doubt, listening to every sound. At the end of that time they were
induced to utter some words, and gradually and naturally they began, for the first time, to
learn their 'native English.' With this accomplishment, the other began also naturally to fade
away, until the memory with the use of it passed from their mind" (249. 12).

Mr. Horatio Hale, who resumes the case just noticed in his address before the Anthropological
Section of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (Buffalo, 1886), gives also
valuable details of the language of a little four-year-old girl and her younger brother in
Albany, as reported by Dr. E. R. Hun (249. 13). The chief facts are as follows: "The mother
observed when she was two years old that she was backward in speaking, and only used the words
'papa' and 'mamma.' After that she began to use words of her own invention, and though she
readily understood what was said, never employed the words used by others. Gradually she extended
her vocabulary until it reached the extent described below [at least twenty-one distinct words,
many of which were used in a great variety of meanings]. She has a brother eighteen months
younger than herself, who has learned her language, so that they talk freely together. He,
however, seems to have adopted it only because he has more intercourse with her than with others;
and in some instances he will use a proper word with his mother, and his sister's word with
her. She, however, persists in using only her own words, though her parents, who are uneasy
about her peculiarity of speech, make great efforts to induce her to use proper words."

More may be read concerning this language in the account of Dr. Hun (published in 1868).

Mr. Hale mentions three other cases, information regarding which came to him. The inventors
in the first instance were a boy between four and five years old, said to have been "unusually
backward in his speech," and a girl a little younger, the children of a widower and a widow
respectively, who married; and, according to the report of an intimate friend: "He and the
little girl soon became inseparable playmates, and formed a language of their own, which was
unintelligible to their parents and friends. They had names of their own invention for all
the objects about them, and must have had a corresponding supply of verbs and other parts of
speech, as their talk was fluent and incessant." This was in Kingston, Ontario, Canada (249. 16).

The second case is that of two young children, twins, a boy and a girl: "When they were three
or four years old they were accustomed, as their elder sister informs me, to talk together
in a language which no one else understood.... The twins were wont to climb into their father's
carriage in the stable, and 'chatter away,' as my informant says, for hours in this strange
language. Their sister remembers that it sounded as though the words were quite short. But
the single word which survives in the family recollection is a dissyllable, the word for milk,
which was cully. The little girl accompanied her speech with gestures, but the boy did not.
As they grew older, they gradually gave up their peculiar speech" (249. 17).

The third case cited by Mr. Hale is that of two little boys of Toronto, Canada,--five or six
years of age, one being about a year older than the other, who attended a school in that city:
"These children were left much to themselves, and had a language of their own, in which they
always conversed. The other children in the school used to listen to them as they chattered
together, and laugh heartily at the strange speech of which they could not understand a word.
The boys spoke English with difficulty, and very imperfectly, like persons struggling to express
their ideas in a foreign tongue. In speaking it, they had to eke out their words with many
gestures and signs to make themselves understood; but in talking together in their own language,
they used no gestures and spoke very fluently. She remembers that the words which they used
seemed quite short" (249. 18).

Mr. Hale's studies of these comparatively uninvestigated forms of human speech led him into
the wider field of comparative philology and linguistic origins. From the consideration of
these data, the distinguished ethnologist came to regard the child as a factor of the utmost
importance in the development of dialects and families of speech, and to put forward in definite
terms a theory of the origin and growth of linguistic diversity and dialectic profusion, to
the idea of which he was led by his studies of the multitude of languages within the comparatively
restricted area of Oregon and California (249. 9). (249. 47). Approaching, in another essay,
one of the most difficult problems in comparative philology, he observes: "There is, therefore,
nothing improbable in the supposition that the first Aryan family--the orphan children, perhaps,
of some Semitic or Accadian fugitives from Arabia or Mesopotamia--grew up and framed their
new language on the southeastern seaboard of Persia." Thus, he thinks, is the Aryo-Semitic
problem most satisfactorily solved (467. 675). In a second paper (250) on The Development of
Language, Mr. Hale restates and elaborates his theory with a wealth of illustration and argument,
and it has since won considerable support from the scientists of both hemispheres.

Professor Romanes devotes not a few pages of his volume on Mental Evolution in Man, to the
presentation of Mr. Hale's theory and of the facts upon which it is based (338. 138-144).

Secret Languages.

That the use of secret languages and the invention of them by children is widespread and prevalent
at home, at school, in the playground, in the street, is evident from the exhaustive series
of articles in which Dr. F. S. Krauss (281) of Vienna has treated of "Secret Languages." Out
of some two hundred forms and fashions there cited a very large proportion indeed belong to
the period of childhood and youth and the scenes of boyish and girlish activity. We have languages
for games, for secret societies, for best friends, for school-fellows, for country and town,
for boys and girls, etc. Dr. Oscar Chrisman (206) has quite recently undertaken to investigate
the nature and extent of use of these secret languages in America, with gratifying results.
A study of the child at the period in which the language-making instinct is most active cannot
be without interest to pedagogy, and it would not be without value to inquire what has been
the result of the universal neglect of language-teaching in the primary and lower grade grammar
schools--whether the profusion of secret languages runs parallel with this diversion of the
child-mind from one of its most healthful and requisite employments, or whether it has not
to some extent atrophied the linguistic sense.

The far-reaching ramifications of "secret languages" are evidenced by the fact that a language
called "Tut" by school-children of Gonzales, Texas, is almost identical in its alphabet with
the "Guitar Language," of Bonyhad, in Hungary, the "Bob Language," of Czernowitz, in Austria,
and another language of the same sort from Berg. The travels of the Texas secret language are
stated by Dr. Chrisman to be as follows: "This young lady ... learned it from her mother's
servant, a negro girl; this girl learned it from a negro girl who got it at a female negro
school at Austin, Texas, where it was brought by a negro girl from Galveston, Texas, who learned
it from a negro girl who had come from Jamaica" (208. 305).

Evidence is accumulating to show that these secret languages of children exist in all parts
of the world, and it would be a useful and instructive labour were some one to collect all
available material and compose an exhaustive scientific monograph on the subject.

Interesting, for comparative purposes, are the secret languages and jargons of adults. As Paul
Sartori (528) has recently shown, the use of special or secret languages by various individuals
and classes in the communities is widespread both in myth and reality. We find peculiar dialects
spoken by, or used in addressing, deities and evil spirits; giants, monsters; dwarfs, elves,
fairies; ghosts, spirits; witches, wizards, "medicine men"; animals, birds, trees, inanimate
objects. We meet also with special dialects of secret societies (both of men and of women);
sacerdotal and priestly tongues; special dialects of princes, nobles, courts; women's languages,
etc.; besides a multitude of jargons, dialects, languages of trades and professions, of peasants,
shepherds, soldiers, merchants, hunters, and the divers slangs and jargons of the vagabonds,
tramps, thieves, and other outcast or criminal classes.

Far-reaching indeed is the field opened by the consideration of but a single aspect of child-speech,
that doll-language which Joaquin Miller so aptly notes:--

  "Yet she carried a doll, as she toddled alone,
   And she talked to that doll in a tongue her own."

Diminutives.

Both the golden age of childhood and the golden age of love exercise a remarkable influence
upon language. Mantegazza, discussing "the desire to merge oneself into another, to abase oneself,
to aggrandize the beloved," etc., observes: "We see it in the use of diminutives which lovers
and sometimes friends use towards each other, and which mothers use to their children; we lessen
ourselves thus in a delicate and generous manner in order that we may be embraced and absorbed
in the circle of the creature we love. Nothing is more easily possessed than a small object,
and before the one we love we would change ourselves into a bird, a canary--into any minute
thing that we might be held utterly in the hands, that we might feel ourselves pressed on all
sides by the warm and loving fingers. There is also another secret reason for the use of diminutives.
Little creatures are loved tenderly, and tenderness is the supreme sign of every great force
which is dissolved and consumes itself. After the wild, passionate, impetuous embrace there
is always the tender note, and then diminutives, whether they belong to expression or to language,
always play a great part" (499. 137). The fondness of boys for calling each other by the diminutives
of their surnames belongs here.

In some languages, such as the Nipissing dialect of Algonkian in North America, the Modern
Greek or Romaic, Lowland Scotch, and Plattdeutsch, the very frequent employment of diminutives
has come to be a marked characteristic of the common speech of the people. The love for diminutives
has, in some cases, led to a charm of expression in language which is most attractive; this
is seen perhaps at its best in Castilian, and some of the Italian dialects (202 and 219). A
careful study of the influence of the child upon the forms of language has yet to be made.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE CHILD AS ACTOR AND INVENTOR.

  The child is a born actor.

  The world's a theatre, the earth a stage,
  Which God and Nature do with actors fill.--Heywood.

  Man is an imitative creature, and the foremost leads the flock.
  --Schiller.

Imitative Games.

In her article on Imitation in Children, Miss Haskell notes the predilection of children for
impersonation and dramatic expression, giving many interesting examples. S. D. Warren, in a
paper read before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, at the Brooklyn
Meeting, 1894 (Proc., Vol. xliii., p. 335), also notes these activities of children, mentioning,
among other instances, "an annual celebration of the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown,"
"playing railroad," playing at pulling hand fire-engines, as the representatives of two rival
villages.

The mention of the celebration of Cornwallis' surrender by children brings up the question
of the child as recorder. As historian and chronicler, the child appears in the countless games
in which he preserves more or less of the acts, beliefs, and superstitions of our ancestors.
Concerning some of these, Miss Alice Gomme says: "It is impossible that they have been invented
by children by the mere effort of imagination, and there is ample evidence that they have but
carried on interchangeably a record of events, some of which belong to the earliest days of
the nation" (242.11).

As Miss Gomme points out, many of the games of English children are simply primitive dramas,--of
the life of a woman ("When I was a Young Girl"), of courtship and marriage ("Here comes Three
Dukes a-Riding," "Poor Mary sits a-Weeping"), of funerals ("Jenny Jones," "Green Gravel"),
of border warfare ("We are the Rovers"), etc. Mr. W. W. Newell had previously remarked the
importance of the dramatic element in children's games, citing as historical plays "Miss Jennia
Jones" (funeral), "Down she comes as White as Milk," "Green Gravel," "Uncle John," "Barbara
Allen," and others more or less partaking of this character, based upon historical ballads,
of some of which traces only are now preserved.

By means of carved or graven images in wood or stone, given to children as playthings or as
targets to practise skill in shooting or striking with miniature bow-and-arrow or spear, an
early acquaintance is formed with many animals. The imitation of animals, their habits and
peculiarities, often forms no small part of the dances and games of children of the lower races.

The Child as Actor.

Wallaschek, in his study of the primitive drama and pantomime (546. 214-229), notes the presence
of children as dancers and performers among the Andaman Islanders, the Tagals of the Philippines,
the Tahitians, Fijis, Polynesians and other more or less primitive races. Of Tibet and some
portions of China Mr. Rockhill, in his Diary of a Journey through Mongolia, and Tibet, in 1891
and 1892 (Washington, D. C., 1894), informs us that the lads in every village give theatrical
performances, the companies of young actors being known as Hsiao sheng huei, "young men's amateur
theatrical company" (p. 68).

Among the aborigines of the New World we find also children as actors and participants in the
ceremonies and ritual performances of various tribes. In certain ceremonials of the Sia, as
Mrs. Stevenson informs us, young children take part. A boy of eight was allowed to hear the
sacred songs on one occasion, and to witness the making of the "medicine-water," but a boy
of four was not permitted to be present; the boy also took part in the dance (538. 79). In
the rain ceremonial of the "Giant Society," a little girl, eight years old, painted the fetiches
quite as dexterously as her elders, and took apparently quite as much interest in the proceedings.
In the rain ceremonial of the "Knife Society," boys assist, and in the rain ceremonial of the
Querranna, a child (boy) with wand and rattle joins in the celebration of the rites, "requiring
no rousing to sing and bend his tiny body to the time of the rattle, and joining in the calls
upon the cloud-people to gather to water the earth, with as much enthusiasm as his elders."
When children, boys or girls, are about ten or twelve years of age, and have, as the Indians
say, "a good head," they are initiated, if they so desire, into some of the mysteries of the
dances of the Ka'tsuna, in charge of the Querranna Society (538. 106-117).

Dr. J. W. Fewkes, in his detailed article on the Flute Observance of the Tusayan Indians of
Walpi, an interesting study of primitive dramatization, notes the part played by children in
these ceremonies. The principal characters are the "Snake Boy," the "Snake Girl," and some
girl carriers of the sacred corn, besides lads as acolytes.

The story of the child as an actor has yet to be written. When the ancient Greeks crowded the
theatres to hear and see the masterpieces of dramatic and histrionic genius, their "women,
slaves, and children" were for the most part left at home, though we do find that later on
in history, front seats were provided for the chief Athenian priestesses. No voices of children
were heard in chorus, and childhood found no true interpreter upon the stage. In France, in
the middle of the seventeenth century, women appear as actors; in England it was not until
long after the death of her greatest dramatist that (in 1660) women could fill a role upon
the stage without serious hindrance or molestation; in Japan, even now, play-acting is not
looked upon as a respectable profession for women. For a long time in England and elsewhere,
female parts were taken by children and youths. Here also we meet with companies of child-actors,
such as the "Boys of the Grammar School at Westminster," "The Children of Paul's," etc. The
influence which produced these survives and flourishes to-day in the fondness of high-school
pupils and university students for dramatic performances and recitations, and the number of
schools of gesture, elocution, and the like, testifies to the abiding interest of the young
in the mimic art. This is also evidenced by the number of child actors and actresses in the
theatrical world, and the remarkable precocity of the members of the profession in all lands.
In England, the pantomime offers a special outlet for this current of expression, and there
the child is a most important factor in stage-life. The precocity of girls in these respects
is noteworthy.

The Child as Inventor.

Borrowing his figure of speech from the environment of child-hood, C. J. Weber has said: "Die
Gesellschaft ist die Grossmutter der Menschkeit durch ihre Tochter, die Erfindungen,--Society
is the grandmother of humanity through her daughters, the inventions," and the familiar proverb--Necessity
is the mother of invention--springs from the same source. Isaac Disraeli aptly says: "The golden
hour of invention must terminate like other hours; and when the man of genius returns to the
cares, the duties, the vexations, and the amusements of life, his companions behold him as
one of themselves,--the creature of habits and infirmities," and not a few of the "golden hours
of invention" seem to belong to the golden age of childhood. Even in these "degenerate" days
the child appears as an inventor. A contributor to the periodical literature of the day remarks:
"Children have taken out a number of patents. The youngest inventor on record is Donald Murray
Murphy, of St. John, Canada, who, at the age of six years, obtained from the United States
exclusive rights in a sounding toy. Mabel Howard, of Washington, at eleven years, invented
an ingenious game for her invalid brother and got a patent for it. Albert Gr. Smith, of Biehwood,
Illinois, at twelve years invented and patented a rowing apparatus" (Current Lit., K T., xiv.
1893, p. 138).

The works of Newell (313), Bolton (187), Gomme (243), amply reveal the riot of childish variation
and invention in games and plays. Mr. Newell observes: "It would be strange if children who
exhibit so much inventive talent [in language] did not contrive new games; and we find accordingly
that in many families a great part of the amusements of the children are of their own devising.
The earliest age of which the writer has authentic record of such ingenuity is two and a half
years" (313. 25). And among the primitive peoples the child is not without like invention;
some, indeed, of the games our children play, were invented by the savage young ones, whose
fathers have been long forgotten in the mist of prehistoric ages--the sports of their children
alone surviving as memorials of their existence.

Theal tells us that the Kaffir children, when not engaged in active exercise, "amuse themselves
by moulding clay into little images of cattle, or by making puzzles with strings. Some of them
are skilful in forming knots with thongs and pieces of wood, which it taxes the ingenuity of
the others to undo. The cleverest of them sometimes practise tricks of deception with grains
of maize" (543. 221). The distinguished naturalist, Mr. A. R. Wallace, while on his visit to
the Malay Archipelago, thought to show the Dyak boys of Borneo something new in the way of
the "cat's cradle," but found that he was the one who needed to learn, for the little brown
aborigines were able to show him several new tricks (377. 25).

Miklucho-Maclay notes that among the Papuans of north-eastern New Guinea, while the women showed
no tendency to ornament pottery, young boys "found pleasure in imprinting with their nails
and a pointed stick a sort of ornamental border on some of the pots" (42. 317).

Paola Lombroso, daughter of Professor Cesare Lombroso, the celebrated criminologist, in her
recent study of child psychology, observes: "Games (and plays) are the most original creation
of the child, who has been able to create them, adapt them to his needs, making of them a sort
of gymnastics which enables him to develop himself without becoming fatigued, and we, with
the aid of memory, can hardly now lay hold of that feeling of infinite, intense pleasure."
Moreover, these popular traditional plays and games, handed down from one generation to another
of children, "show how instinctive are these forms of muscular activity and imitative expression,
which have their roots in a true physiological and psychic necessity, being a species of tirocinium
for the experience of childhood" (301. 136).

The magnum opus, perhaps, of the child as inventor, is the lyre, the discovery of which, classical
mythology attributes to the infant Mercury or Hermes. Four hours after his birth the baby god
is said to have found the shell of a tortoise, through the opposite edges of which he bored
holes, and, inserting into these cords of linen, made the first stringed instrument. The English
poet, Aubrey de Vere, singing of an Athenian girl, thus refers to the quaint myth:--

  "She loves to pace the wild sea-shore--
  Or drop her wandering fingers o'er
  The bosom of some chorded shell:
  Her touch will make it speak as well
  As infant Hermes made
  That tortoise in its own despite
  Thenceforth in Heaven a shape star-bright."

CHAPTER XVII.

THE CHILD AS POET, MUSICIAN, ETC.

  Poeta nascitur, non fit.--Latin Proverb.

  As yet a child, nor yet a fool to fame,
  I lisp'd in numbers, for the numbers came.--Pope.

The Child and Music.

"Music," said quaint old Thomas Puller, "is nothing else but wild sounds civilized into time
and tune," and Wallaschek, in his recent volume on Primitive Music, has shown how every nation
under heaven, even the most savage and barbarous of peoples, have had a share in the work of
civilization. Music has been called "the language of the gods," "the universal speech of mankind,"
and, early in the golden age of childhood, the heaven of infancy, is man made captive by "music's
golden tongue." As Wallaschek has said of the race, Tracy says of the individual, "no healthy,
normal child is entirely lacking in musical 'ear.'" The children of primitive races enjoy music,
as well as their fellows in civilized communities. The lullaby, that quod semper ubique et
ab omnibus of vocal art, early engages and entrances the infantile ear, and from the musical
demonstrations of his elders, the child is not always or everywhere excluded. Indeed, the infant
is often ushered into the world amid the din and clamour of music and song which serve to drown
the mother's cries of pain, or to express the joy of the family or the community at the successful
arrival of the little stranger.

Education in music and the dance begins very early with many peoples. At the school of midwifery
at Abu-Zabel in Egypt, according to Clot-Bey, in cases of difficult childbirth, a child is
made to hop and dance about between the legs of the mother in order to induce the foetus to
imitate it (125. II. 159).

As understudies and assistants to shamans, "medicine-men," and "doctors," children among many
primitive peoples soon become acquainted with dance and song.

In Ashanti, boy musicians, singers, and dancers figure in the processions of welcome of the
chiefs and kings, and young girls are engaged in the service of the fetiches (438. 258). Burchell,
while en route for the Kaffir country, found among certain tribes that "in the evening a whole
army of boys would come to his hut and listen with manifest pleasure to the tones of his violin,
and would repeat the melodies he played with surprising accuracy" (546. 3, 199). The meke-meke,
a dance of the Fiji Islanders, "is performed by boys and girls for whom an old musician plays";
at Tahiti the children "are early taught the 'ubus,' songs referring to the legends or achievements
of the gods," and "Europeans have at times found pleasure in the pretty, plaintive songs of
the children as they sit in groups on the sea-shore" (546. 35, 180, 208). In some of the Polynesian
Islands, young girls are "brought up to dance the timorodea, a most lascivious dance, and to
accompany it with obscene songs" (100. 62). At Tongatabu, according to Labillardiere, a young
girl "sang a song, the simple theme of which she repeated for half-an-hour" (546. 31). Wallaschek
calls attention to the importance of the child in song in the following words (546. 75):--

"In some places the children, separated from the adults, sing choruses among themselves, and
under certain circumstances they are the chief support of the practice of singing. On Hawaii,
Ellis found boys and girls singing in chorus, with an accompaniment of seven drums, a song
in honour of a quondam celebrated chief. Even during supper with the Governor, table-music
was performed by a juvenile bard of some twelve or fourteen summers, who sang a monotonous
song to the accompaniment of a small drum.... In Fiji a man of position deems it beneath him
to sing, and he leaves it to his wife and children, so that women sing with women only, and
children with children."

Speaking of the natives of Australia, with whom he came into contact, Beckler says "the octaves
of the women and children at the performance he attended were perfectly in tune, as one rarely
hears in a modern opera chorus, they were in exact accord." In the Kuri dance, witnessed by
Angas, a number of boys take part (546. 37, 223).

In New Guinea "the Tongala-up, a stick with a string whirled in the air, is played by women
and children." Among the Tagals of the Philippines, Volliner found (with perhaps a little Spanish
influence) "a chorus was performed in a truly charming manner by twelve young girls formed
in a circle, one girl standing in the middle to direct." In the Andaman Islands, where the
men only, as a rule, sing, "the boys were far the best performers" (546.24, 27, 75).

Among the Apache Indians of Arizona and Mexico, "old matrons and small children dance until
no longer able to stand, and stop for very exhaustion" (546. 46).

The Child as Poet.

Victor Hugo, in one of his rhapsodies, exclaims: "The most sublime psalm that can be heard
on this earth is the lisping of a human soul from the lips of childhood," and the rhythm within
whose circle of influence the infant early finds himself, often leads him precociously into
the realm of song. Emerson has said, "Every word was once a poem," and Andrew Lang, in his
facetious Ballade of Primitive Man, credits our Aryan ancestors with speaking not in prose,
but "in a strain that would scan." In the statement of the philosopher there is a good nugget
of truth, and just a few grains of it in the words of the wit.

The analogy between the place and effect of rhythm, music, and poetry in the life of the child
and in the life of the savage has been frequently noted. In his recent study of Rhythm (405
a), Dr. Bolton has touched up some aspects of the subject. With children "the habit of rhyming
is almost instinctive" and universal. Almost every one can remember some little sing-song or
nonsense-verse of his own invention, some rhyming pun, or rhythmic adaptation. The enormous
range of variation in the wording of counting-out rhymes, game-songs, and play-verses, is evidence
enough of the fertility of invention of child-poets and child-poetesses. Of the familiar counting-out
formula Eeny, meeny, miny, mo, the variants are simply legion.

The well-known lines of Pope:--

  "As yet a child, nor yet a fool to fame,
  I lisp'd in numbers, for the numbers came,"

receive abundant illustration from the lives of the great geniuses of song.

Among primitive peoples, if anywhere, poeta nascitur, non fit. In her article on Indian Songs,
Miss Alice C. Fletcher says: "Children make songs for themselves, which are occasionally handed
down to other generations. These juvenile efforts sometimes haunt the memory in maturer years.
An exemplary old man once sang to me a composition of his childhood, wherein he had exalted
the pleasures of disobedience; but he took particular care that his children should not hear
this performance. Young men sing in guessing-games, as they gambol with their companions, tossing
from hand to hand a minute ball of buffalo hair or a small pebble, moving their arms to the
rhythm of the music." This, and the following statement made of the Omaha Indians, will hold
for not a few other savage and barbarous tribes: "Children compose ditties for their games,
and young men add music to give zest to their sports" (445).

Dr. F. Boas says of the Eskimo of Baffin Land (402. 572): "Children tell one another fables
and sing short songs, especially comic and satirical ones." The heroes of the Basque legend
of Aquelarre are thus described by Miss Monteiro (505. 22):--

"Izar and Lanoa were two orphan children; the first was seven years of age, and the latter
nine. These poor children, true wandering bards, frequented the mountains, earning a livelihood
by singing ballads and national airs in sweet, infantile voices, in return for a bed of straw
and a cupful of meal. Throughout the district these children were known and loved on account
of their sad state, as well as for their graceful forms and winning ways."

Mr. Chatelain, in his recent work on African folk-tales, says of the natives of Angola: "No
Angola child finds difficulty at any time in producing extemporaneous song."

Dr. Gatschet, in his study of the Klamath Indians, gives examples of many songs composed and
sung by young people, especially girls; and many other Indian tribes, Algonkian, Iroquois,
etc., possess such as well. When Darwin reached Tahiti, his arrival was "sung by a young girl
in four improvised strophes, which her fellow-maidens accompanied in a pretty chorus"; and
among the song-loving people of the islands of the South Sea, the poetic talent develops quite
early in both sexes. Among the aborigines of Peake River, in Australia, when a youth--at puberty--has
undergone the ceremony of tattooing, and, his wounds having healed, is about to return to his
fellows, "a young girl selected for the purpose, sings in her own way a song which she has
composed, and, amid dancing, merriment, and feasting, the youth is welcomed back to his family
and his kin" (326. 11. 241). Throughout the Orient woman is a dancer and a singer. India has
her bayaderes and nautch-girls, whose dancing and singing talents are world-known.

The Gypsies, too, that wander-folk of the world, are famed for their love-songs and fortune-telling
rhymes, which the youth and girlhood among them so often know how to make and use. Crawford,
who has translated the Kalevala, the great epic of the Finns, tells us, "The natural speech
of this people is poetry. The young men and maidens, the old men and matrons, in their interchange
of ideas unwittingly fall into verse" (423. I. xxvi.). Among the young herdsmen and shepherdesses
of the pastoral peoples of Europe and Asia, the same precocity of song prevails. With songs
of youth and maiden, the hills and valleys of Greece and Italy resound as of old. In his essay
on the Popular Songs of Tuscany, Mr. J. A. Symonds observes (540. I say so many, when I sing
... but now ... one must have them all before one's mind ... if not, they do not come properly."

Lombroso, in his discussion of the man of genius, gives many examples of precocious poetical
and musical talent: Dante (who at nine years of age wrote sonnets), Tasso (wrote at ten years
of age), Wieland (who wrote an epic at 16), Lope de Vega (who wrote verses at 12), Calderoii
(at 13), Metastasio (who composed at 10), Handel (who wrote a mass at 13, and was director
of opera at 19), Eichhorn, Mozart, and Eibler (all three of whom gave concerts at 6), Beethoven
(who wrote sonatas at 13), Weber (who wrote his first opera at 14), Cherubini (who wrote a
mass at 15), etc. (300.15).

Among English poets whose precocity was marked, we find the most noteworthy to be Robert Browning,
whose first poetic effusion is ascribed to his fourth year. It is now known, however, that
poetry is much more common among children than was at first supposed, and early compositions
are not to be expected from geniuses alone, but often from the scions of the ruder commonalty.

In her interesting study of individual psychology, Dr. Caroline Miles informs us that out of
ninety-seven answers to the question, "Did you express yourself in any art-form before eighteen
years of age?" fourteen stated that the person replying used verses alone, fourteen used stories
and poetry, three used poetry and drawing or painting, two used poetry and painting. Dr. Miles
notes that "those who replied 'no' seemed to take pride in the fact that they had been guilty
of no such youthful folly." This is in line with the belief parents sometimes express that
the son or daughter who poetizes early is "loony." Some who were not ashamed of these child-expressions
volunteered information concerning them, and we learn: "Most interesting was one who wrote
a tragedy at ten, which was acted on a little stage for the benefit of her friends; from ten
to thirteen, an epic; at thirteen, sentimental and religious poems" (310. 552, 553).

Dr. H. H. Donaldson, in his essay on the Education of the Nervous System, cites the fact that
of the musicians whose biographies were examined by Sully, 95% gave promise before twenty years
of age, and 100% produced some work before reaching thirty; of the poets, 75% showed promise
before twenty, and 92% produced before they were thirty years of age (216. 118). Precocity
and genius seem to go together.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE CHILD AS TEACHER AND WISEACRE.

  The child is father of the man,--Wordsworth.

  And wiser than the gray recluse
  This child of thine.--Whittier.

Wisdom of Childhood. Browning, in Pippa's Song, has sounded even a deeper note:--

  "Overhead the tree-tops meet,
  Flowers and grass spring 'neath one's feet;
  There was nought above me, nought below,
  My childhood had not learned to know:
  For, what are the voices of birds
  --Aye, and of beasts,--but words, our words,
  Only so much more sweet?
  The knowledge of that with my life begun.
  But I had so near made out the sun,
  And counted your stars, the seven and one,
  Like the fingers of my hand:
  Nay, I could all but understand
  Wherefore through heaven the white moon ranges;
  And just when out of her soft fifty changes
  No unfamiliar face might overlook me--
  Suddenly God took me."

The power and wisdom of the child are quaintly and naively brought out in the legends and folk-lore
of the various races of men, not alone of the present day, but of all eras of the world's history.
As an illustration of the truth contained in the words of a great child-lover, "A little child
shall lead them," and their echo in those of the Quaker poet,--

  "God hath his small interpreters;
  The child must teach the man,"

nothing could be more artless and natural than the following legend of the Penobscot Indians
of Maine, recorded by Mr. Leland, which tells of the origin of the "crowing of babies" (488.
121):--

When Glooskap, the culture-hero of these Indians, had conquered all his enemies, giants, sorcerers,
magicians, evil spirits and ghosts, witches, devils, goblins, cannibals, et id genus omne,
pride rose within him, and he said to a certain woman, that now his work was done, for he had
conquered all. But she told him that he was mistaken; there yet remained "one whom no one has
ever yet conquered or got the better of in any way, and who will remain unconquered to the
end of time." This was Wasis, "the baby," who was sitting contentedly on the floor of the wigwam
chewing a piece of maple-sugar. The great Glooskap, so the story runs, "had never married or
had a child; he knew nought of the way of managing children"--yet he thought he knew all about
it. So he smiled graciously at baby, and, "in a voice like that of a summer bird," bade him
come to him. But baby sat still and went on sucking his sugar. Then Glooskap got angry, and
in a terrible voice, ordered baby to crawl to him at once. But baby merely cried out and yelled,
stirring not. Then Glooskap tried his last resort, magic, "using his most awful spells, and
singing the songs which raise the dead and scare the devils." Still baby only smiled, and never
budged an inch. At last the great Glooskap could do no more; he gave up the attempt in despair,
whereupon "baby, sitting on the floor in the sunshine, went 'goo! goo!' and crowed lustily."
And to this day, the Indians, when they hear "a babe well-contented going 'goo! goo!' and crowing,
and no one can tell why," know that it is because he "remembers the time when he overcame the
great Master, who had conquered all things. For of all beings that have been since the beginning,
baby is alone the invincible one."

Manabozho, the culture-hero of the Chippeways and other Algonkian tribes of the Great Lakes,
and probably identical with his eastern analogue, Gluskap, was, like the latter, discomfited
by a child. This is the legend:--

"One day Manabozho appeared upon the earth in an ill-humour. Walking along, he espied a little
child sitting in the sun, curled up with his toe in his mouth. Somewhat surprised at this,
and being of a dauntless and boastful nature, he set himself down beside the child; and, picking
up his own toe, he essayed to place it in his mouth after the manner of the child. He could
not do it. In spite of all twisting and turning, his toe could not be brought to reach his
mouth. As he was getting up in great discomfiture to get away, he heard a laugh behind him,
and did no more boasting that day, for he had been outwitted by a little child."

This characteristic attitude of the child has also been noted by the folk-historians of India;
for when, after the death of Brahma, the waters have covered all the worlds, "Vishnu [the 'Preserver,'
in the Hindoo Trinity] sits, in the shape of a tiny infant, on a leaf of the pipala (fig-tree),
and floats on the sea of milk, sucking the toe of his right foot" (440. 366), and, as Mrs.
Emerson points out, "the feat that Manabozho sought in vain to perform is accomplished by the
more flexible and lithe Hindoo god, Narayana" (440. 367).

In another Micmac legend, given by Leland, Gluskap appears somewhat more to advantage. Of the
Turtle [Mikchich], the "Uncle" of Gluskap, for whom the latter had obtained a wife, we read
(488. 57):--

"And Turtle lived happily with his wife, and she had a babe. Now it happened in after-days
that Glooskap came to see his uncle, and the child cried. 'Dost thou know what he says?' exclaimed
the Master. 'Truly, not I,' answered Mikchich, 'unless it be the language of the Mu-se-gisk
(spirits of the air), which no man knoweth.' 'Wel,' replied Glooskap, 'he is talking of eggs,
for he says, 'Hoowah! hoowah!' which, methinks, is much the same as 'waw-wun, waw-wun.' And
this in Passamaquoddy means 'egg.' 'But where are there any?' asked Mikchich. Then Glooskap
bade him seek in the sand, and he found many, and admired and marvelled over them greatly;
and in memory of this, and to glorify the jest of Glooskap, the turtle layeth eggs even to
this day."

In Mr. Leland's collection, as in the later volume of Dr. Band, there are many other delicate
touches of childhood that show that these aborigines have a large measure of that love for
children which is present with all races of mankind.

In the legends of the saints and heroes of the Christian Church we meet with numberless instances
of the wisdom and instruction that came to them from the mouths of little children.

Among the stories in the life of St. Augustine is the following: "While St. Augustine was composing
his book On the Trinity, and was at Civita Vecchia, he saw a little child making a hole in
the seashore, and asked him what he was doing. The child replied: 'I am making a hole to contain
the water of the sea.' The doctor smiled, telling the child it would not be possible to do
so; but the child made answer: 'Not so, Augustine. It would be far easier to drain off the
waters of the great deep than for the finite to grasp the Infinite'; and so he vanished. Augustine
then knew that the child was an angel of God, sent to warn him, and he diligently set to work
to revise what he had written" (191. 355).

The best of mankind can still sit at the feet of childhood and learn of its wisdom. But of
many a one must it be said:--

  "He hath grown so foolish-wise
  He cannot see with childhood's eyes;
  He hath forgot that purity
  And lowliness which are the key
  Of Nature's mysteries."

CHAPTER XIX.

THE CHILD AS JUDGE.

  O wise young judge I--Shakespeare.

And in the history of the human race, appeal has often been made to the innocence and imputed
discernment of the child.

Solomon.

The stories told of Solomon--the judgments of the wise Hebrew monarch, when a child, were as
remarkable as those which he made after attaining man's estate--have their counterparts in
other lands. One of the most celebrated decisions was rendered by Solomon when he was but thirteen
years of age. Well gives the story as follows (547.192):--

"The accuser had sold some property to the other, who, in clearing out a cellar, had found
a treasure. He now demanded that the accused should give up the treasure, since he had bought
the property without it; while the other maintained that the accuser possessed no right to
the treasure, since he had known nothing of it, and had sold the property with all that it
contained. After long meditation, David adjudged that the treasure should be divided between
them. But Solomon inquired of the accuser whether he had a son, and, when he replied that he
had a son, he inquired of the other if he had a daughter; and he also answering in the affirmative,
Solomon said: 'If you will adjust your strife so as not to do injustice one to the other, unite
your children in marriage, and give them this treasure as their dowry.'" In many other difficult
cases, David, after the loss of the tube which, according to legend, the angel Gabriel brought
him, was aided in judgment by the wisdom and far-sightedness of his young son. A decision similar
to that of Solomon is attributed to Buddha, when a child, and to Christ.

Child-Judgments.

Mullenhoff records two cases of child-judgments in his collection of the folk-lore of Schleswig-Holstein.
The first is as follows: "A branch of the river Widau, near Tondern, is named Eenzau, from
the little village Eenz in the parish of Burkall. Where the banks are pretty high and steep,
a man fell into the water once upon a time, and would have been drowned had not a certain person,
hearing his cries, hastened to the river, and, holding out a pole, enabled the drowning man
to help himself out. In doing so, however, he put out an eye. The rescued man appeared at the
next thing (court), entered a complaint against the other, and demanded compensation for his
lost eye. The judges, not knowing what to make of the case, put it off till the next thing,
in order to meditate upon it in the meantime. But the third thing came, and the district-judge
had not made up his mind about it. Out of humour, he mounted his horse and rode slowly and
thoughtfully in the direction of Tondern, where the thing was then held. He reached Rohrkarrberg,
and, opposite the house which is still standing there, lay a stone heap, upon which sat three
herd-boys, apparently busy with something of importance. 'What are you doing there, children?'
asked the judge. 'We are playing thing' (court), was the answer. 'What is the matter before
the court?' continued the judge. 'We are trying the case of the man who fell into the Eenzau,'
they answered, and the judge held his horse to await the verdict. The boys did not know him,
for he was well hidden in his cloak, and his presence did not disturb them. The judgment rendered
was, that the man who had been rescued should be thrown into the stream again at the same spot;
if he was able to save himself, then he should receive compensation for the eye he had lost;
if he could not, the decision was to be in favour of the other. Before the district-judge went
away, he put his hand into his pocket and gave the boys some money; then, merrily riding to
Tondern, he rendered the same judgment as the boys had given. The fellow was unable to save
himself without assistance, and was like to have been drowned; consequently, his rescuer won
the case" (508. 87, 88). The other case, said to have occurred at Rapstede, was this:--

"A tailor and a peasant, both possessing nothing more than a wretched hut, made a bargain for
so and so many bushels of corn at such and such a price, although the tailor knew that the
peasant had no money, and the peasant knew that the tailor had a needle, but no corn. Soon
the price of corn rose, and the peasant appeared before the court to demand that the tailor
should fulfil his part of the bargain. The judges were at a loss to decide such a matter. In
this case, also, boys rendered judgment. The decision was, that the agreement was invalid,
for both, being neighbours, had known each other's circumstances, and yet both were culpable
for having entered into such a deceitful bargain" (508. 88).

These decisions belong to the same category as that rendered by Solomon in the case of the
two women, who both claimed the same child,--a judgment which has gone upon record in the Bible
(1 Kings, iii. 16-28),--and a multitude of similar interpretations of justice found all over
the world (191. 290).

Mr. Newell, speaking of children's games in which judicial procedures are imitated, but from
whose decisions no serious results ever come, observes (313. 123):--

"In the ancient world, however, where the courts were a place of resort, and law was not a
specialized profession, the case was different. Maximus of Tyre tells us that the children
had their laws and tribunals; condemnation extended to the forfeiture of toys. Cato the younger,
according to Plutarch, had his detestation of tyranny first awakened by the punishment inflicted
on a playmate by such a tribunal. One of the younger boys had been sentenced to imprisonment;
the doom was duly carried into effect; but Cato, moved by his cries, rescued him."

Children's Ideas of Right.

Mr. Brown, of the formal School at Worcester, Massachusetts, has given us an excellent collection
of Thoughts and Reasonings of Children (194), and Signora Paola Lombroso, in her interesting
and valuable Essays on Child-Psychology, has also contributed to the same subject (301. 45-72).
A very recent study is that of Children's Rights, by Margaret E. Schallenberger (341), of Leland
Stanford, Jr. University, California. The last author has charted the opinions of a large number--some
three thousand papers were collected--of boys and girls from six to sixteen years of age, upon
the following case, the story being employed as specially appealing to children (341. 89):--

"Jennie had a beautiful new box of paints; and, in the afternoon, while her mother was gone,
she painted all the chairs in the parlour, so as to make them look nice for her mother. When
her mother came home, Jennie ran to meet her, and said, 'Oh mamma! come and see how pretty
I have made the new parlour'; but her mamma took her paints away and sent her to bed. If you
had been her mother, what would you have done or said to Jennie?"

From this extensive and most ingenious investigation, the following results are thought to
have been obtained: "Young children are less merciful than older ones. When they appear cruel
and resentful, we know that they are exercising what they honestly consider the right of revenge.
Boys are less merciful than girls. Young children judge of actions by their results, older
ones look at the motives which prompt them. If a young child disobeys a command and no bad
result follows, he doesn't see that he has done wrong. Punishments which, have in them the
idea of restitution are common to all ages. Girls consider the why more than boys; they explain
to Jennie oftener than boys do. Threats and forced promises do not impress children" (341. 96).

Jurisprudence of Child's Play.

Pitre, the great Italian folklorist, has made a special study, though a very brief one, of
the judgments rendered by children in games and plays,--the jurisprudence of child's play (323).
His essay, which is devoted to the island of Sicily, touches upon a field which is likely to
yield a rich harvest all over the world. The rules of the game; who shall play and who shall
not; what is "out," "taw," "in"; when is one "it," "caught," "out"; what can one "bar," and
what "choose,"--all these are matters which require the decisions of the youthful judiciary,
and call for the frequent exercise of judgment, and the sense of justice and equity. Of the
"Boy Code of Honour" some notice is taken by Gregor (246. 21-24). Mr. Newell thus describes
the game of "Judge and Jury," as played at Cambridge, Massachusetts (312.123): "A child is
chosen to be judge, two others for jurors (or, to speak with our little informant, juries),
who sit at his right and left hand. Each child must ask the permission of the judge before
taking any step. A platter is brought in, and a child, rising, asks the judge, 'May I go into
the middle of the room?' 'May I turn the platter?' 'On which side shall it fall?' If the platter
falls on the wrong side, forfeit must be paid." In Germany and Switzerland there is a game
of the trial of a thief. In the former country: "There is a king, a judge, an executioner,
an accuser, and a thief. The parts are assigned by drawing lots, but the accuser does not know
the name of the thief, and, if he makes an error, has to undergo the penalty in his stead.
The judge finally addresses the king, inquiring if his majesty approves of his decision; and
the king replies, 'Yes, your sentence entitles you to my favour'; or, 'No, your sentence entitles
you to so many blows.' Thus we see how modern child's play respects the dignity of the king
as the fountain of law." In the Swiss version, as Mr. Newell remarks, "the memory of the severity
of ancient criminal law is preserved," for "the thief flies, and is chased over stock and stone
until caught, when he is made to kneel down, his cap pushed over his brows, and his head immediately
struck off with the edge of a board" (313.124).

Boy-Moots.

The most interesting section, perhaps, of Mr. Johnson's Rudimentary Society among Boys, is
that devoted to "Judicial Procedure" (272. 35-48). Fighting, arbitration, the ordeal and the
wager have all been in use as modes of settling quarrels at the McDonogh School--such matters
of dispute as arose having been left for the boys to settle among themselves without the control
of the faculty. Indeed, the advice which Polonius gives to Laertes seems to have been ever
present in the earlier days:--

  "Beware
  Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
  Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee."

Following the appeal to fists came the appeal to chance and luck--the "odd or even" marbles,
the "longest straw," and like devices came into vogue. The arbitration of a bystander, particularly
of "a big boy who could whip the others," and the "expedient of laying a wager to secure the
postponement of a quarrel," are very common. But the most remarkable institution at McDonogh
is undoubtedly the boy-moot, one of whose decisions is reported in detail by Mr. Johnson,--an
institution in action "almost daily," and part and parcel of the life of the school. None but
the author's own words can justly portray it (272. 47, 48):--

"The crowd of boys assembled about the contestants, whose verdict decides the controversy,
is, in many respects, the counterpart of a primitive assembly of the people in the folk-moot.
Every boy has the right to express an opinion, and every boy present exercises his privilege,
though personal prowess and great experience in matters of law have their full influence on
the minds of the judges. The primitive idea that dispensing justice is a public trust, which
the community itself must fulfil towards its members, is embodied in this usage of the 'McDonogh
boys.' The judges are not arbitrators chosen by the disputants, nor are they public functionaries
whose sole business is to preside over the courts; but the whole body of the population declares
by word of mouth the right and wrong of the matter. This tumultuous body of school-fellows,
giving decisions in quarrels, and determining questions of custom, reproduces with remarkable
fidelity the essential character of the primitive assembly."

Mr. Johnson was struck with "the peace and good order generally prevalent in the community,"
which speaks well for the judicial system there in vogue.

The editor, in his introductory remarks, observes:--

"Every schoolboy and every college student in his upward way to real manhood represents the
evolution of a primitive savage into a civilized being. Every school and college reproduces
the developmental process of a human society in some of its most interesting aspects, such
as government and law. There are all stages of social development in the student class, from
actual savagery, which frequently crops out in the very best schools and colleges, to effeminate
forms of modern civilization. There are all degrees of institutional government, from total
anarchy and patriarchal despotism to Roman imperialism and constitutional government; although
it must be admitted that self-government among the student class--said to obtain in some American
schools and colleges--is not yet a chartered right. The regulation of student society by itself,
or by all the powers that be, presents all phases of judicature, from the most savage ordeals
to the most humane. Student customs are full of ancient survivals, and some editions of 'College
Laws' are almost as archaic as the Code of Manu. One of these days we shall perhaps find men
investigating college jurisprudence, college government, and college politics from the comparative
point of view, and writing the natural history of the student class" (272. 3).

In the community of the sand-pile studied by Dr. Hall, "a general habit of settling disputes,
often brought to issue with fists, by means of meetings and specifications, arose." There is
room for a volume on the jurisprudence of childhood and youth, and every page would be of intensest
interest and of value in the history of the evolution of the ideas of justice in the human race.

CHAPTER XX.

THE CHILD AS ORACLE-KEEPER AND ORACLE- INTERPRETER.

  Enfants et fous sont devins [Children and fools are soothsayers].
  --French Proverb.

  Children pick up words as chickens peas,
  And utter them again as God shall please.--English Proverb.

  The fresh face of a child is richer in significance than the
  forecasting of the most indubitable seer.--Novalis.

Child-Oracles.

"Children and fools speak the truth," says an old and wide-spread proverb, and another version
includes him who is drunken, making a trinity of truth-tellers. In like manner have the frenzy
of wine and the madness of the gods been associated in every age with oracle and sign, and
into this oracular trinity enters also the child. Said De Quincey: "God speaks to children
also, in dreams and by the oracles that lurk in darkness," and the poet Stoddard has clothed
in exquisite language a similar thought:--

  "Nearer the gate of Paradise than we,
  Our children breathe its air, its angels see;
  And when they pray, God hears their simple prayer,
  Yea, even sheathes his sword in judgment bare."

The passage in Joel ii. The Darien Indians, we are told, "used the seeds of the Datura sanguinea
to bring on in children prophetic delirium in which they revealed hidden treasures" (545. II. 417).

One of the most curious of the many strange practices which the conservatism of the Established
Church of England has continued down to the present is one in vogue at the parish church of
St. Ives, in Huntingdonshire. A certain Dr. Eobert Wilde, who died in 1678, "bequeathed L50,
the yearly interest of which was to be expended in the purchase of six Bibles, not exceeding
the price of 7s. 6d each, which should be 'cast for by dice' on the communion table every year
by six boys and six girls of the town." The vicar was also to be paid 10s. a year for preaching
an appropriate sermon on the Holy Scriptures. Public opinion has within recent years caused
the erection of a table on the chancel steps, where the dice-throwing now takes place, instead
of on the communion table as of old. Every May 26th the ceremony is performed, and in 1888
we are told: "The highest throw this year (three times with three dice) was 37, by a little
girl. The vicar (the Rev. E. Tottenham) preached a sermon from the words, 'From a child thou
hast known the Holy Scriptures'" (390 (1888). 113).

The Child as Vision-Seer.

In the history of the Catholic Church one cannot fail to be struck by the part played by children
in the seeing of visions, especially of the Virgin. To St. Agnes of Monte Pulciano (A.D. 1274-1317),
when fourteen years of age, the Virgin appeared and told her she should build a monastery before
she died (191. 24); Jeanne de Maille (1332-1414) was but eleven when the Virgin Mary with the
infant Jesus came before her in a vision; Catherine of Racconigi (1486-1547) was visited by
the Virgin when only five years of age (191. 108); in 1075, Hermann of Cologne, while still
a boy, saw in a vision the Virgin, who kissed him, and made a secret deposit of food on a certain
stone for his benefit. In 1858 a vision of the Immaculate Conception appeared to Bernadetta
Soubirous, a sickly child of fourteen, at Lourdes, in the Hautes Pyrenees. No one else saw
this vision, said to have occurred on Shrove Tuesday (Feb. 11), four years after Pius IX. had
proclaimed the dogma of the Immaculate Conception. The vision lasted for fourteen successive
days (191. 484). On Jan. 17, 1871, the Virgin is alleged to have appeared at Pontmain to several
children, and a detailed account of the vision has been given by Mgr. Guerin, chamberlain of
Pius IX., in his Vie des Saints, and this is digested in Brewer. The children who saw the apparition
are described as follows: "Eugene Barbedette was the second son of a small farmer living in
the village of Pontmain, in the diocese of Laval. He was twelve years old, and his brother
Joseph was ten. The other two [Francoise Richer, Jeanne Marie Lebosse] were children from neighbouring
cottages, called in to witness the sight. The parents of the children, the pastor of the village,
Sister Vitaline, the abbot Guerin, all present, could see nothing, nor could any of the neighbours
of outlying villages, who flocked to the place. Only the children mentioned, a sick child,
and a babe in the arms of its grandmother, saw the apparition." The description of the Virgin,
as seen by Eugene Barbedette that starlight winter night, is quaint and naive in the extreme:
"She was very tall, robed in blue, and her robe studded with stars. Her shoes were also blue,
but had red rosettes. Her face was covered with a black veil, which floated to her shoulders.
A crown of gold was on her head, but a red line was observed to run round the crown, symbolic
of the blood shed by Christ for the sins of the world. Beneath her feet was a scroll, on which
were written these words: 'Mais priez, mes enfants, Dieu vous exaucera, en peu de temps mon
fils se laisse toucher' (Pray, my children, God will hear you, before long my son will be moved)."
Mgr. Guerin thus comments upon the miracle: "In order to make herself manifest to men, the
Holy Virgin has chosen rather the simple eyes of childhood; for, like troubled waters, sinful
souls would have but ill reflected her celestial image" (191. 26).

Flower- and Animal-Oracles.

Mr. Newell has a chapter on "Flower-Oracles" (313. 105-114), in which he gives many illustrations
of the practice noted in the lines of that nature-loving mediaeval German singer, with which
he prefaces his remarks:--

 "A spire of grass hath made me gay;
  It saith I shall find mercy mild.
  I measured in the self-same way
  I have seen practised by a child."
  "Come look and listen if she really does:
   She does, does not, she does, does not, she does.
   Each time I try, the end so augureth.
   That comforts me,--'tis right that we have faith."

The ox-eye daisy, the common daisy, the marguerite, the corn-flower, the dandelion, the rose,
the pansy, the clover, and a score of other flowers and plants (to say nothing of bushes and
trees) have their leaves and petals pulled off, their seeds counted, their fruit examined,
their seed-tufts blown away, their markings and other peculiarities deciphered and interpreted
to determine the fortune of little questioners, the character of the home they are to live
in, the clothes they are to be married in, what they are to ride in, the profession they are
to adopt, whether they are to marry, remain single, become monk or nun, whether they are to
be drowned or hanged, rich or poor, honest or criminal, whether they are to go to hell, purgatory,
or paradise.

The use of drawing straws or blades of grass from the hand to determine who is "it," or who
shall begin the game, the blowing of the dandelion in seed, the counting of apple-pips, or
the leaves on a twig, and a hundred other expedients belong to the same category. All these
are oracles, whose priest and interpreter is the child; first, in "those sweet, childish days
that were as long as twenty days are now," and then again when love rules the heart and the
appeal to the arbitrament of nature--for not alone all mankind but all nature loves a lover--is
made in deepest faith and confidence. In the golden age of childhood and in the springtime
of love all nature is akin to man. The dandelion is especially favoured as an oracle of children,
and of those who are but "children of a larger growth." To quote from Folkard (448. 309):--

"The dandelion is called the rustic oracle; its flowers always open about 5 A.M. and shut at
8 P.M., serving the shepherd for a clock.

  'Leontodons unfold
  On the swart turf their ray-encircled gold,
  With Sol's expanding beam the flowers unclose,
  And rising Hesper lights them to repose.'--Darwin.

As the flower is the shepherd's clock, so are the feathery seedtufts his barometer, predicting
calm or storm. These downy seedballs, which children blow off to find out the hour of day,
serve for other oracular purposes. Are you separated from the object of your love? Carefully
pluck one of the feathery heads; charge each of the little feathers composing it with a tender
thought; turn towards the spot where the loved one dwells; blow, and the seed-ball will convey
your message faithfully. Do you wish to know if that dear one is thinking of you? blow again;
and if there be left upon the stalk a single aigrette, it is a proof you are not forgotten.
Similarly, the dandelion is consulted as to whether the lover lives east, west, north, or south,
and whether he is coming or not.

  'Will he come? I pluck the flower leaves off,
  And, at each, cry yes, no, yes;
  I blow the down from the dry hawkweed,
  Once, twice--hah! I it flies amiss!'--Scott."

Many interesting details about flower-oracles may be read in the pages of Friend (453) and
Folkard (448) and in Mr. Dyer's chapters on Plants and the Ceremonial Use (435. 145-162), Children's
Rhymes and Games (435. 232-242), etc.

Beasts, birds, and insects are also the child's oracles. Mr. Callaway tells us that among the
Amazulu, when cattle are lost, and the boys see the bird called Isi pungumangati sitting on
a tree, "they ask it where the cattle are, and go in the direction in which it points with
its head." The insect known as the mantis, or "praying insect," is used for a similar purpose
(417. 339). In the Sollinger forest (Germany), on St. Matthew's day, February 24, the following
practice is in vogue: A girl takes a girl friend upon her back and carries her to the nearest
sheep-pen, at the door of which both knock. If a lamb is the first to bleat, the future husbands
of both girls will be young; if an old sheep bleats first, they will both marry old men (391.
II. 10).

The Child as Oracle in the Primitive Community.

In primitive social economy the services of the child, as an unprejudiced or oracular decider
of fates and fortunes, were often in demand. In the community of Pudu-vayal, in the Carnatic
(southeastern India), "when the season for cultivation arrives, the arable land in the village
is allotted to the several shareholders in the following manner: The names of each lot and
each share-holder are written on pieces of the leaf of the palm-tree, such as is used for village
records, and the names of each division of land to be allotted are placed in a row. A child,
selected for the purpose, draws by lot a leaf with the name of the principal share-holder,
and places under it a number, thus,--

  1--Tannappa.  2--Nina.  3--Narrappa.  4--Malliyan.

It is thus settled by lottery that Tannappa and his under-share-holders are to cultivate the
land of the principal share lotted under No. 1. Tannappa next proceeds to settle in the same
way each under-shareholder's portion included in his principal share, and so on, until the
sixty-four shareholders receive each his allotment (461. 32)."

At Haddenham, in the county of Buckingham, England, a somewhat similar practice survived: "The
method of deciding the ownership, after the meadow was plotted out, was by drawing lots. This
was done by cutting up a common dock-weed into the required number of pieces to represent the
lots, a well understood sign being carved on each piece, representing crows' feet, hog-troughs,
and so on. These were placed in a hat and shaken up. Before this could be done, however, notice
must be given by one of the men, calling out, at the top of his voice, 'Harko,' and using some
sort of rigmarole, calling people to witness that the lots were drawn fairly and without favour....
The hat being shaken up, and one of the boys standing by, looking on with the greatest interest,
is pitched upon as a disinterested person to draw the lots, and each owner had to 'sup up'
with the lot that fell to him" (461.270).

In the manor of Aston, in the parish of Bampton, Oxfordshire, a like custom prevailed: "When
the grass was fit to cut, the grass stewards and Sixteens [stewards] summoned the freeholders
and tenants to a general meeting, and the following ceremony took place: Four of the tenants
came forward, each bearing his mark cut on a piece of wood, which, being thrown into a hat,
were shaken up and drawn by a boy. The first drawing entitled its owner to have his portion
of the common meadow in set one, the second drawn in set two, etc., and thus four of the tenants
have obtained their allotments. Four others then came forward, and the same process is repeated
until all the tenants have received their allotments" (461. 166).

In Kilkenny, "when the division is made out, lots are prepared. Each man takes a bit of stick
or particular stone, well marked; these are enveloped in a ball of clay, and a child or stranger
is called to place each ball upon some one of the lots, by which each man's share is determined"
(461. 141).

The Kaffir boy who is to tend the calves in the kraal, while his fellows sport and romp about,
is selected by lot: "As many blades of grass as there are boys are taken, and a knot is made
on the end of one of them. The biggest boy holds the blades between the fingers and thumb of
his closed hand, and whoever draws the blade with the knot has to act as herdsman" (543. 221).
Nowadays, children are employed to turn roulette-wheels, sort cards, pick out lottery-tickets,
select lucky numbers, set machinery going for the first time, and perform other like actions;
for, though men are all "children of fortune," there is something about real children that
brings luck and prospers all enterprises of chance and hazard.

Unconscious action and selection by children have no doubt profoundly influenced individual
men and society at times. The story of the conversion of drunken John Stirling by the naive
remark of his four-year-old boy, as the mother was reading Matthew xxv. 31-33, "Will father
be a goat, then, mother?" finds parallels in other lives and other lands (191.356). Here may
be considered as belonging some of the "guessing-games," certain of which, in forms remarkably
like those in use to-day, were known to the ancients, as Mr. Newell has pointed out, from references
in Xenophon and Petronius Arbiter (313. 147-152).

Oracular Games.

As we of to-day see in the sports and games of children some resemblance to the realities of
life of our ancestors of long ago, and of those primitive peoples who have lingered behind
in the march, of culture, so have the folk seen in them some echo, some oracular reverberation,
of the deeds of absent elders, some forecast of the things to come.

Among the Shushwap Indians of British Columbia, the following belief is current regarding twins:
"While they are children their mother can see by their plays whether her husband, when he is
out hunting, will be successful or not. When the twins play about and feign to bite each other,
he will be successful; if they keep quiet, he will return empty-handed" (404. 92).

In Saxon Transylvania, "when children play games in which dolls and the like are buried, play
church, or sing hymns in the street, it is thought to foretell the approaching death of some
one in the place" (392 (1893).18).

Similar superstitions attach to others of the games and sports of childhood, in which is reproduced
the solemn earnest of an earlier manhood; for, with some peoples, the conviction that what
is acted in pantomime must occur at a later date in all its reality, finds ready acceptance,
and hence children are sometimes even now debarred from carrying out some of their games, from
a vague fear that ill will come of them in the manner indicated.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE CHILD AS WEATHER-MAKER.

  Rain, rain, go away,
  Come again, another day.--Children's Rhyme.

Perhaps the most naive tale in which, the child figures as a weather-maker occurs in the life-story
of St. Vincent Ferrier (1357-1419 A.D.), who is credited with performing, in twenty years,
no fewer than 58,400 miracles. While the saint was not yet a year old, a great dearth prevailed
in Valencia, and one day, while his mother was lamenting over it, "the infant in swaddling-clothes
said to her distinctly, 'Mother, if you wish for rain, carry me in procession.' The babe was
carried in procession, and the rain fell abundantly" (191.356). (191. 344). Saints and witches
had power to stop rains and lay storms as well as to bring them on.

H. F. Feilberg has given us an interesting account of "weather-making," a folk-custom still
in vogue in several parts of Denmark. It would appear that this strange custom exists in Djursland,
Samse, Sejere, Nexele, in the region of Kallundborg. Here "the women 'make weather' in February,
the men in March, all in a fixed order, usually according to the numbers of the tax-register.
The pastor and his wife, each in his and her month, 'make weather' on the first of the month,
after them the other inhabitants of the village. If the married men are not sufficient to fill
out the days of the months, the unmarried ones and the servants are called upon,--the house-servant
perhaps 'making weather' in the morning, the hired boy in the afternoon, and in like manner
the kitchen-maid and the girl-servant" (392 (1891). 56, 58). In this case we have a whole family,
household, community of "weather-makers," old and young, and are really taken back to a culture-stage
similar to that of the Caribs and Chibchas of America, with whom the chief was weather-maker
as well as ruler of his people (101. 57).

The "Bull-Roarer."

In Mr. Andrew Lang's Custom and Myth there is an entertaining chapter on "The Bull Roarer,"
which the author identifies with the [Greek: rombos] mentioned by Clemens of Alexandria as
one of the toys of the infant Dionysus. The "bull-roarer," known to the modern English boy,
the ancient Greek, the South African, the American Indian, etc., is in actual use to-day by
children,--Mr. Lang does not seem to be aware of the fact,--as a "wind-raiser," or "weather-maker."
Mr. Gregor, speaking of northeastern Scotland, says: "During thunder it was not unusual for
boys to take a piece of thin wood a few inches wide and about half a foot long, bore a hole
in one end of it, and tie a few yards of twine into the hole. The piece of wood was rapidly
whirled around the head under the belief that the thunder would cease, or that the thunder-bolt
would not strike. It went by the name of the 'thunner-spell'" (246. 153).

Among the Kaffirs, according to Mr. Theal:--

"There is a kind of superstition connected with the nowidu [the South African 'bull-roarer'],
that playing with it invites a gale of wind. Men will, on this account, often prevent boys
from using it when they desire calm weather for any purpose" (543. 223).

Dr. Boas tells us that the Shushwap Indians of British Columbia attribute supernatural powers
to twins, and believe: "They can make good and bad weather. In order to produce rain they take
a small basket filled with water, which they spill into the air. For making clear weather,
they use a small stick to the end of which a string is tied. A small flat piece of wood is
attached to the end of the string, and this implement is shaken. Storm is produced by strewing
down on the ends of spruce branches" (404. 92).

The Nootka Indians have a like belief regarding twins: "They have the power to make good and
bad weather. They produce rain by painting their faces with black colour and then washing them,
or by merely shaking their heads" (404. 40).

Among some of the Kwakiutl Indians, upon the birth of twins "the father dances for four days
after the children have been born, with a large square rattle. The children, by swinging this
rattle, can cure disease and procure favourable winds and weather" (404. 62).

In Prussia, when it snows, the folk-belief is "the angels are shaking their little beds," and
Grimm's story of "Old Mother Frost" has another rendering of the same myth: "What are you afraid
of, my child! Stop with me: if you will put all things in order in my house, then all shall
go well with you; only you must take care that you make my bed well, and shake tremendously,
so that the feathers fly; then it snows upon earth. I am Old Mother Frost."

An Eskimo legend states that thunder and lightning are caused by an adult person and a child,
who went up in the sky long, long ago; they carry a dried seal-skin, which, when rattled, makes
the thunder, and torches of tar, which, when waved, cause the lightning.

The Mississaga Indians explain a fierce storm of thunder and lightning by saying that "the
young thunder-birds up in the sky are making merry and having a good time." In like manner,
the Dakotas account for the rumbling of thunder, "because the old thunder-bird begins the peal
and the young ones take it up and continue."

In the poetry of the ancient Aryans of Asia the wind is called "the heavenly child," some idea
of which survives in the old pictures in books representing the seasons, and in maps, where
infants or cherubs are figured as blowing at the various points of the compass. But to return
to rain-making. Grimm has called attention to several instances in Modern Europe where the
child figures as "rain-maker."

Girl Rain-Makers.

One of the charms in use in the Rhine country of Germany in the eleventh century, as recorded
by Burchard of Worms, was this: "A little girl, completely undressed and led outside the town,
had to dig up henbane with the little finger of her right hand, and tie it to the little toe
of her right foot; she was then solemnly conducted by the other maidens to the nearest river,
and splashed with water" (462. II. 593).

In Servia the rain-maker is well known, and the procedure is as follows: "A girl, called the
dodola, is stript naked, but so wrapt up in grass, herbs, and flowers, that nothing of her
person is to be seen, not even the face. Escorted by other maidens, dodola passes from house
to house; before each house they form a ring, she standing in the middle and dancing alone.
The goodwife comes out and empties a bucket of water over the girl, who keeps dancing and whirling
all the while; her companions sing songs, repeating after every line the burden oy dodo, oy
dodo le." Following is one of the rain-songs:--

  "To God doth our doda call, oy dodo oy dodo le!
  That dewy rain may fall, oy dodo oy dodo le!
  And drench the diggers all, oy dodo oy dodo le!
  The workers great and small, oy dodo oy dodo le!
  Even those in house and stall, oy dodo oy dodo le!"

Corresponding to the Servian dodola, and thought to be equally efficacious, is the [Greek:
pyrperuna] of the Modern Greeks. With them the custom is: "When it has not rained for a fortnight
or three weeks, the inhabitants of villages and small towns do as follows. The children choose
one of themselves, who is from eight to ten years old, usually a poor orphan, whom they strip
naked and deck from head to foot with field herbs and flowers: this child is called pyrperuna.
The others lead her round the village, singing a hymn, and every housewife has to throw a pailful
of water over the pyrperuna's head and hand the children a para (1/4 of a farthing)" (462. I. 594).

In a Wallachian song, sung by children when the grain is troubled by drought, occurs the following
appeal: "Papaluga (Father Luga), climb into heaven, open its doors, and send down rain from
above, that well the rye may grow!" (462. II. 593). This brings us naturally to the consideration
of the rain-rhymes in English and cognate tongues.

Rain-Rhymes.

Mr. Henderson, treating of the northern counties of England, tells us that when the rain threatens
to spoil a boy's holiday, he will sing out:--

  "'Rain, rain, go away,
  Come again another summer's day;
  Rain, rain, pour down,
  And come no more to our town.'

or:--

  'Rain, rain, go away,
  And come again on washing day,'

or, more quaintly, yet:--

  'Rain, rain, go to Spain;
  Fair weather, come again,'

and, sooner or later, the rain will depart. If there be a rainbow, the juvenile devotee must
look at it all the time. The Sunderland version runs thus:--

  'Rain, rain, pour down
  Not a drop in our town,
  But a pint and a gill
  All a-back of Building Hill.'"

Mr. Henderson remarks that "such rhymes are in use, I believe, in every nursery in England,"
and they are certainly well known, in varying forms in America. A common English charm for
driving away the rainbow brings the child at once into the domain of the primitive medicine-man.
Schoolboys were wont, "on the appearance of a rainbow, to place a couple of straws or twigs
across on the ground, and, as they said, 'cross out the rainbow.' The West Riding [Yorkshire]
receipt for driving away a rainbow is: 'Make a cross of two sticks and lay four pebbles on
it, one at each end'" (469. 24, 25).

Mr. Gregor, for northeastern Scotland, reports the following as being sung or shouted at the
top of the voice by children, when a rainbow appears (246. 153, 154):--

(1)
 "Rainbow, rainbow,
  Brack an gang hame,
  The coo's wi' a calf,
  The yow's wi' a lam,
  An' the coo 'ill be calvt,
  Or ye win hame."

(2)
 "Rainbow, rainbow,
  Brack an gang hame;
  Yir father an yir mither's aneth the layer-stehm;
  Yir coo's calvt, yir mare's foalt,
  Yir wife'll be dead
  Or ye win hame."

(3)
 "Rainbow, rainbow,
  Brack an gang hame,
  Yir father and mither's aneth the grave stehn."

Even more touching is the appeal made by the children in Berwickshire, according to Mr. Henderson
(469. 24, 25):--

  "Rainbow, rainbow, hand awa' hame,
  A' yer bairns are dead but ane,
  And it lies sick at yon gray stane,
  And will be dead ere you win hame.
  Gang owre the Drumaw [a hill] and yont the lea
  And down by the side o' yonder sea;
  Your bairn lies greeting [crying] like to dee,
  And the big tear-drop is in his e'e."

Sometimes the child-priest or weather-maker has to employ an intermediary. On the island of
Rugen and in some other parts of Germany the formula is (466 a. 132):--

 "Leeve Katriene
  Lat de stinnen schienen,
  Lat'n ragen overgahn,
  Lat de stunnen wedder kam'n."
  ["Dear (St.) Catharine,
  Let the sun shine,
  Let the rain pass off,
  Let the sun come again."]

In Eugen the glow-worm is associated with "weather-making." The children take the little creature
up, put it on their hand and thus address it (466 a. 133):--

 "Sunnskurnken fleeg weech,
  Bring mi morgen good wader,
  Lat 'en ragen overgahn,
  Lat de sunnen wedder kam'n,
  Bring mi morgen good wader."

If the insect flies away, the good weather will come; if not, there will be rain.

The Altmark formula, as given by Danneil (Worterb., p. 81) is:--

"Herrgottswormk'n, fleg nao'n Himmel, segg din Vaoder un Mutter, dat't morgen un aowermorg'n
god Wad'r wart." ["Little God's-worm, fly to heaven, tell your father and mother to make it
fine weather to-morrow and the day after to-morrow."]

Another rain-rhyme from Altmark, sung by children in the streets when it rains, is harsh in
tone, and somewhat derisive as well (p. 153):--

  "Rag'n blatt, maok mi nich natt,
  Maok den olln Paop'n natt
  De'n Bud'l vull Geld hat."
  ["Rain, don't make me wet,
  Make the old priest wet,
  Who has a purse full of money."]

Concerning the Kansa Indians, Rev. J. Owen Dorsey informs us that the members of the Tcihacin
or Kanze gens are looked upon as "wind people," and when there is a blizzard the other Kansa
appeal to them: "O, Grandfather, I wish good weather! Please cause one of your children to
be decorated!" The method of stopping the blizzard is as follows: "Then the youngest son of
one of the Kanze men, say one over four feet high, is chosen for the purpose, and painted with
red paint. The youth rolls over and over in the snow and reddens it for some distances all
around him. This is supposed to stop the storm" (433. 410).

With the Kwakiutl Indians of Vancouver Island, as with the Shushwaps and Nootka, twins are
looked upon in the light of wonderful beings, having power over the weather. Of them it is
said "while children they are able to summon any wind by motions of their hands, and can make
fair or bad weather. They have the power of curing diseases, and use for this purpose a rattle
called K.'oa'qaten, which has the shape of a flat box about three feet long by two feet wide."
Here the "weather-maker" and the "doctor" are combined in the same person. Among the Tsimshian
Indians, of British Columbia, twins are believed to control the weather, and these aborigines
"pray to wind and rain: 'Calm down, breath of the twins'" (403. 51).

In the creation-legend of the Indians of Mt. Shasta (California), we are told that once a terrific
storm came up from the sea and shook to its base the wigwam,--Mt. Shasta itself,--in which
lived the "Great Spirit" and his family. But the temptation to look out on the world was too
strong for her, and, as a result, she was caught up by the storm and blown down the mountain-side
into the land of the grizzly-bear people. From the union of the daughter and the grizzly-bear
people sprang a new race of men. When the "Great Spirit" was told his daughter still lived,
he ran down the mountain for joy, but finding that his daughter had become a mother, he was
so angry that he cursed the grizzly-people and turned them into the present race of bears of
that species; them and the new race of men he drove out of their wigwam,--Little Mt. Shasta,--then
"shut to the door, and passed away to his mountains, carrying his daughter; and her or him
no eye has since seen." Hence it is that "no Indian tracing his descent from the spirit mother
and the grizzly, will kill a grizzly-bear; and if by an evil chance a grizzly kill a man in
any place, that spot becomes memorable, and every one that passes casts a stone there till
a great pile is thrown up" (396. III. 91).

Here the weather-maker touches upon deity and humanity at once.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE CHILD AS HEALER AND PHYSICIAN.

Fingunt se medicos quivis idiota, sacerdos, Iudaus, monachus, histrio, rasor, anus. [Any unskilled
person, priest, Jew, monk, actor, barber, old woman, turns himself into a physician.]--Medical
Proverb.

The Child as Healer and Physician.

Though Dr. Max Bartels' (397) recent treatise--the best book that has yet appeared on the subject
of primitive medicine--has no chapter consecrated to the child as healer and physician, and
Mr. Black's Folk-Medicine (401) contains but a few items under the rubric of personal cures,
it is evident from data in these two works, and in many other scattered sources, that the child
has played a not unimportant role in the history of folk-medicine. Among certain primitive
peoples the healing art descends by inheritance, and in various parts of the world unbaptized
children, illegitimate children, and children born out of due time and season, or deformed
in some way, have been credited with special curative powers, or looked upon as "doctors born."

In Spain, to kiss an unbaptized child before any one else has done so, is a panacea against
toothache (258. 100). In north-eastern Scotland, "a seventh son, without a daughter, if worms
were put into his hand before baptism, had the power of healing the disease (ring-worm) simply
by rubbing the affected part with his hand. The common belief about such a son was that he
was a doctor by nature" (246. 47). In Ireland, the healing powers are acquired "if his hand
has, before it has touched anything for himself, been touched with his future medium of cure.
Thus, if silver is to be the charm, a sixpence, or a three-penny piece, is put into his hand,
or meal, salt, or his father's hair, 'whatever substance a seventh son rubs with must be worn
by his parents as long as he lives.'" In some portions of Europe, the seventh son, if born
on Easter Eve, was able to cure tertian or quartan fevers. In Germany, "if a woman has had
seven sons in succession, the seventh can heal all manner of hurt,"--his touch is also said
to cure wens at the throat (462. III. 1152). In France, the marcou, or seventh son, has had
a great reputation; his body is said to be marked with a fleur-de-lis, and the cure is effected
by his simply breathing upon the diseased part, or by allowing the patient to touch a mark
on his body. Bourke calls attention to the fact that among the Cherokee Indians of the southeastern
United States is this same belief that the seventh son is "a natural-born prophet with the
gift of healing by touch" (406. 457). In France similar powers have also been attributed to
the fifth son. The seventh son of a seventh son is still more famous, while to the twenty-first
son, born without the intervention of a daughter, prodigious cures are ascribed.

Nor is the other sex entirely neglected. In France a "seventh daughter" was believed to be
able to cure chilblains on the heels (462. III. 1152), and in England, as recently as 1876,
the seventh daughter of a seventh daughter claimed great skill as an herb-doctor.

In northeastern Scotland, "a posthumous child was believed to possess the gift of curing almost
any disease by looking on the patient" (246. 37), and in Donegal, Ireland, the peasants "wear
a lock of hair from a posthumous child, to guard against whooping-cough," while in France,
such a child was believed to possess the power of curing wens, and a child that has never known
its father was credited with ability to cure swellings and to drive away tumours (462. III. 1152).

Twins, in many countries, have been regarded as prodigies, or as endowed with unusual powers.
In Essex, England, "a 'left twin' (i.e. a child who has survived its fellow-twin) is thought
to have the power of curing the thrush by blowing three times into the patient's mouth, if
the patient is of the opposite sex" (469. 307). Among the Kwakiutl Indians of British Columbia,
twins are said to be able to cure disease by swinging a rattle, and in Liberia (Africa) they
are thought to possess great healing powers, for which reason most of them become doctors (397.
75).

In Sweden, "a first-born child that has come into the world with teeth can cure a bad bite."
The chief virtue lay in the feet" (246. 45). In Cornwall, England, the mother of such a child
also possessed the power to cure rheumatism by trampling on the patients. The natives of the
island of Mas, off the western coast of Sumatra, consider children born with their feet first
specially gifted for the treatment of dislocations (397. 75). Among the superstitions prevalent
among the Mexicans of the Rio Grande region in Texas, Captain Bourke mentions the belief: "To
cure rheumatism, stroke the head of a little girl three times--a golden-haired child preferred"
(407. 139). The Jews of Galicia seek to cure small-pox by rubbing the pustules with the tresses
of a girl, and think that the scrofula will disappear "if a Bechor, or first-born son, touches
it with his thumb and little finger" (392 (1893). 142).

The power of curing scrofula--touching for the "King's Evil"--possessed by monarchs of other
days, was thought to be hereditary, and seems to have been practised by them at a tender age.
In England this "cure" was in vogue from the time of Edward the Confessor until 1719, when,
according to Brewer, the "office" disappeared from the Prayer-book. The French custom dated
back to Anne of Clovis (A.D. 481). In the year of his coronation (1654 A.D.), when Louis XV.
was but eleven years old, he is said to have touched over two thousand sufferers (191. 308).

Blood of Children.

In the dark ages the blood of little children had a wide-spread reputation for its medicinal
virtue. The idea that diseased and withered humanity, having failed to discover the fountain
of eternal youth, might find a new well-spring of life in bathing in, or being sprinkled with,
the pure blood of a child or a virgin, had long a firm hold upon the minds of the people. Hartmann
von Aue's story, Der arme Heinrich, and a score of similar tales testify of the folk-faith
in the regeneration born of this horrible baptism--a survival or recrudescence of the crassest
form of the doctrine that the life dwells in the blood. Strack, in his valuable treatise on
"Human Blood, in Superstition and Ceremonial," devotes a brief section to the belief in the
cure of leprosy by means of human blood (361. 20-24). The Targumic gloss on Exodus ii. 23--the
paraphrase known as the Pseudo-Jonathan--explains "that the king of Egypt, suffering from leprosy,
ordered the first-born of the children of Israel to be slain that he might bathe in their blood,"
and the Midrasch Schemoth Rabba accounts for the lamentation of the people of Israel at this
time, from the fact that the Egyptian magicians had told the king that there was no cure for
this loathsome disease, unless every evening and every morning one hundred and fifty Jewish
children were slain and the monarch bathed twice daily in their blood. Pliny tells us that
the Egyptians warmed with human blood the seats in their baths as a remedy against the dreaded
leprosy.

According to the early chroniclers, Constantine the Great, on account of his persecution of
the Christians, was afflicted with leprosy, which would yield neither to the skill of native
nor to that of foreign physicians. Finally, the priests of Jupiter Capitolinus recommended
a bath in the blood of children. The children were gathered together, but "the lamentations
of their mothers so affected the Emperor, that he declared his intention of suffering the foul
disease, rather than be the cause of so much woe and misery." Afterwards he was directed in
a dream to Pope Sylvester, was converted, baptized into the Church, and restored to health
(361. 22).

Other instances of this fearful custom are mentioned in the stories of Percival (in the history
of the Holy Grail), of Giglan de Galles et Geoffrey de Mayence, and the wide-spread tale of
Amicus and Amelius and its variants, Louis and Alexander, Engelhard and Engeltrut, Oliver and
Arthur, etc., in all of which one of the friends is afflicted with leprosy, but is cured through
the devotion of the other, who sacrifices his own children in order to obtain the blood by
which alone his friend can be restored to health. Usually, we are told, God rewards his fidelity
and the children are restored to life.

The physicians of King Richard I. of England are said, in one of the fictions which grew up
about his distinguished personality, to have utterly failed to give relief to the monarch,
who was suffering from, leprosy. At last a celebrated Jew, after exhausting his skill without
curing the monarch, told him that his one chance of recovery lay in bathing in the fresh blood
of a newborn child, and eating its heart just as it was taken out of the body. That the king
adopted this horrible remedy we are left to doubt, but of Louis XI of France, several chroniclers
affirm that he went even farther than the others, and, in order to become rejuvenated, drank
large quantities of the blood of young children. In all these cases the character of the child
as fetich seems to be present, and the virtues ascribed to the blood drawn from children (not
always killed) belong not alone to medicine, but also to primitive religion (361. 23).

Even the dead body of a child or some one of its members plays a role in folk-medicine in many
parts of the globe. Grimm cites from a document of 1408 A.D., a passage recording the cure
of a leper, who had been stroked with the hand of a still-born (and, therefore, sinless) child,
which had been rubbed with salve (361. 34). In Steiermark, so Dr. Strack informs us, "a favourite
cure for birth-marks is to touch them with the hand of a dead person, especially of a child"
(361. 35). Among the charges made by the Chinese against the foreigners, who are so anxious
to enter their dominions, is one of "kidnapping and buying children in order to make charms
and medicines out of their eyes, hearts, and other portions of their bodies." This belief induced
the riot of June, 1870, an account of which has been given by Baron Hubner, and similar incidents
occurred in 1891 and 1892. Somewhat the same charges have been made (in 1891, for example)
by the natives of Madagascar against the French and other foreigners (361. 37).

Medicine-Men.

Among many primitive peoples, as is the case with the Zulus, Bechuana, Japanese (formerly),
Nez Perces, Cayuse, Walla-Wallas, Wascos, etc., the office of "doctor" is hereditary, and is
often exercised at a comparatively early age (397. 275). Dr. Pitre has recently discussed some
interesting cases in this connection in modern Italy (322).

Among certain Indian tribes of the Rocky Mountain region of the northwestern United States,
although he cannot properly practise his art until he reaches manhood, the "medicine-man" (here,
doctor) begins his candidacy in his eighth or tenth year. Of the "wizards," or "doctors" of
the Patagonians, Falkner says, that they "are selected in youth for supposed qualifications,
especially if epileptic" (406. 456). While among the Dieyerie of South Australia, the "doctor"
is not allowed to practise before having been circumcised, or to enter upon the duties of his
office before completing his tenth year, those young people become "doctors," who, as children,
"have seen the devil," i.e. have seen in a troubled dream the demon Kutchie, or have had the
nightmare. The belief is, that in this way, the power to heal has been imparted to the child
(397. 75). Among the Yuki Indians of California, "the 'poison-doctor' is the most important
member of the profession. The office is hereditary; a little child is prepared for holding
it by being poisoned and then cured, which, in their opinion, renders him invulnerable ever
afterward" (519. 131). Among the Tunguses, of Siberian llussia, a child afflicted with cramps
or with bleeding at the nose and mouth, is declared by an old shaman ("medicine-man," or "medicine-woman")
to be called to the profession, and is then termed hudildon. After the child has completed
its second year, it is taken care of by an old shaman, who consecrates it with various ceremonies;
from this time forth it is called jukejeren, and is instructed by the old man in the mysteries
of his art (482. III. 105). With these people also the female shamans have the assistance of
boys and girls to carry their implements and perform other like services (397. 66). An excellent
account of shamanism in Siberia and European Eussia has been given by Professor Mikhailovskii
(504), of Moscow, who gives among other details a notice of the kamlanie, or spirit-ceremonial
of a young shaman belonging to one of the Turkish tribes of the Altai Mountains (504. 71).
Among the Samoyeds and Ostiaks of Siberia, "the shamans succeed to the post by inheritance
from father to son" (504. 86). On the death of a shaman, "his son, who desires to have power
over the spirits, makes of wood an image of the dead man's hand, and by means of this symbol
succeeds to his father's power. Those destined to be shamans spend their youth in practices
which irritate the nervous system and excite the imagination."

Among the Buryats of southern Siberia, it is thought that "the dead ancestors who were shamans
choose from their living kinsfolk a boy who is to inherit their power. This child is marked
by signs; he is often thoughtful, fond of solitude, a seer of prophetic visions, subject, occasionally,
to fits, during which he is unconscious. The Buryats believe that at such a time the boy's
soul is with the spirits, who are teaching him; if he is to be a white shaman, with the western
spirits; if he is to be a black shaman, among the eastern spirits." Usually, the youth does
not enter upon his duties until he has reached his twentieth year (504.87).

The tribes of the Altai believe that "the ability to shamanize is inborn; instruction only
gives a knowledge of the chants, prayers, and external rites." There is in early life an innate
tendency to sickness and frenzy, against which, we are told, the elect struggle in vain (504.90):
"Those who have the shamanist sickness endure physical torments; they have cramps in the arms
and legs, until they are sent to a kam [shaman] to be educated. The tendency is hereditary;
a kam often has children predisposed to attacks of illness. If, in a family where there is
no shaman, a boy or a girl is subject to fits, the Altaians are persuaded that one of its ancestors
was a shaman. A kam told Potanin that the shamanist passion was hereditary, like noble birth.
If the kam's own son does not feel any inclination, some one of the nephews is sure to have
the vocation. There are cases of men becoming shamans at their own wish, but these kams are
much less powerful than those born to the profession." Thus the whole training of the kam from
childhood up to exercise of his official duties is such as "to augment his innate tendencies,
and make him an abnormal man, unlike his fellows." When fully qualified, he functions as "priest,
physician, wizard, diviner."

Moses.

Of the childhood of Moses Oriental legend has much to say. One story tells how the daughter
of Pharaoh, a leper, was healed as she stretched out her hand to the infant whom she rescued
from the waters of Nile. Well thus resumes the tale (547.122):--

"The eldest of the seven princesses first discovered the little ark and carried it to the bank
to open it. On her removing the lid, there beamed a light upon her, which her eyes were not
able to endure. She cast a veil over Moses, but at that instant her own face, which hitherto
had been covered with scars and sores of all the most hideous colours imaginable, shone like
the moon in its brightness and purity, and her sisters exclaimed in amazement, 'By what means
hast thou been so suddenly freed from leprosy?' 'By the miraculous power of this child,' replied
the eldest. The glance which beamed upon me when I beheld it unveiled, has chased away the
impurity of my body, as the rising sun scatters the gloom of night.' The six sisters, one after
the other, now lifted the veil from Moses' face, and they, too, became fair as if they had
been formed of the finest silver. The eldest then took the ark upon her head, and carried it
to her mother, Asia, relating to her in how miraculous a manner both she and her sisters had
been healed."

We also learn that when Moses was six years old, being teased by Pharaoh until he was angry,
he kicked the throne over so that the king fell and injured himself so that he bled at the
mouth and nose. The intercession of Asia and the seven princesses seemed vain, and the king
was about to thrust Moses through with his sword, when "there flew a white cock toward the
king, and cried: 'Pharaoh, if thou spill the blood of this child, thy daughters shall be more
leprous than before.' Pharaoh cast a glance upon the princesses; and, as if from dread and
fright, their faces were already suffused with a ghastly yellow, he desisted again from his
bloody design" (547. 127).

Child-Saints.

To other heroes, kings, saints, the power to heal which characterized their years of discretion
is often ascribed to them in childhood, especially where and when it happens that the same
individual is prophet, priest, and king. In the unnumbered miracles of the Church children
have often figured. Lupellus, in his life of St. Frodibert (seventh century A.D.), says: "When
Frodibert was a mere child he cured his mother's blindness, as, in the fulness of love and
pity, he kissed her darkened eyes, and signed them with the sign of the cross. Not only was
her sight restored, but it was keener than ever" (191. 45). Of St. Patrick (373-464 A.D.) it
is told: "On the day of his baptism he gave sight to a man born blind; the blind man took hold
of the babe's hand, and with it made on the ground a sign of the cross." Another account makes
the miracle a triple one: "A blind man, taking hold of St. Patrick's right hand, guided it
into making on the ground a cross, when instantly three miracles ensued: (1) A spring of water
bubbled from the dry ground; (2) the blind man, bathing his eyes with this water, received
his sight; and (3) the man, who before could neither write nor read, was instantly inspired
with both these gifts" (191. 237).

Brewer relates other instances of the miraculous power of the child-saint from the lives of
St. Genevieve (423-512, A.D.), St. Vitus, who at the age of twelve caused the arms and legs
of the Emperor Aurelian to wither, but on the Emperor owning the greatness of God, the "child-magician,"
as the monarch had termed him, made Aurelian whole again; St. Sampson (565 A.D.), who cured
a fellow schoolboy of a deadly serpent's bite; Marianne de Quito (1618-1645 A.D.), who cured
herself of a gangrened finger (191. 442).

In his interesting chapters on Fairy Births and Human Midwives, Mr. Hartland informs us that
young girls have sometimes been called upon to go to fairy-land and usher into the world of
elves some little sprite about to be born. Instances of this folk-belief are cited from Pomerania,
Swabia, Silesia. Rewards and presents are given the maiden on her return, and often her whole
family is blest, if she has acted well (258. 37-92).

Close, indeed, are often the ties between the saint and the physician; the healer of the soul
and the healer of the body are frequently the same. Other links bind the doctor to the hero
and to the god. Of AEsculapius, the great son of Apollo, exposed in childhood by his mother,
but nurtured by the goat of the shepherd Aresthanas, and guarded by his dog, when he grew up
to manhood, became so skilled in the uses of herbs and other medicines that he received divine
honours after his death and came to be looked upon as the inventor of medicine as well as god
of the healing art.

Origin of the Healing Art

With some primitive peoples even the child is their. AEsculapius, at once human and divine,
hero and god. An Iroquois legend recorded by Mrs. Smith attributes to a boy the discovery of
witch-charms: "A certain boy while out hunting came across a beautiful snake. Taking a great
fancy to it, he caught it and cared for it, feeding it on birds, etc., and made a bark bowl
in which he kept it. He put fibres, down, and small feathers into the water with the snake,
and soon found that these things had become living beings. From this fact he naturally conjectured
that the snake was endowed with supernatural powers." So he went on experimenting, and discovered
many of the virtues of the snake water: rubbing it on his eyes would make him see in the dark
and see hidden things; pointing his finger, after having dipped it in the bowl, at any one
would bewitch that person; by using it in certain other ways he could become like a snake,
travel very fast, even become invisible; deadly indeed were arrows dipped in this liquid, and
pointing a feather so dipped at any game-animal would cause it to start for the creature and
kill it. In this fashion the boy learned the secret art of witchcraft. Afterwards, by experimenting,
he discovered, among the various roots and herbs, the proper antidotes and counteracting agents
(534, 69, 70).

In his detailed account of the medicine-society of the Ojibwa, Dr. Hoffman tells how the mysteries
of the "Grand Medicine" were taught to the Indians by the Sun-spirit, who at the request of
the great Manido, came down to earth and dwelt among men in the form of a little boy, raising
to life again his dead play-mate, the child of the people who adopted him. After his mission
was fulfilled, he "returned to his kindred spirits, for the Indians would have no need to fear
sickness, as they now possessed the Grand Medicine which would enable them to live. He also
said that his spirit could bring a body to life but once, and he would now return to the sun,
from which they would feel his influence." So the institution of "medicine" among the Ojibwa
is called Kwi-wi-sens' we-di'-shi-tshi ge-wi-nip, "Little-boy-his-work" (473. 172,173).

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE CHILD AS SHAMAN AND PRIEST.

  The youth, who daily farther from the east
  Must travel, still is nature's priest.--Wordsworth.

Priestly Training.

Instruction in the priestly art in Africa begins sometimes almost at birth. Bastian informs
us (529. 58):--

"Women who have been long barren, or who have lost their children, are wont to dedicate to
the service of the fetich the unborn fruit of the womb, and to present to the village priest
the new-born babe. He exercises it, at an early age, in those wild dances with deafening drum-accompaniment,
by means of which he is accustomed to gain the requisite degree of spiritual exaltation; and
in later years he instructs his pupil in the art of understanding, while his frame is wracked
with convulsions, the inspirations of the demon and of giving fitting responses to questions
proposed."

Of the one sex we read (529. 56):--

"Every year the priests assemble the boys who are entering the state of puberty, and take them
into the forest. There they settle and form an independent commonwealth, under very strict
regulations, however; and every offence against the rules is sternly punished. The wound given
in circumcision commonly heals in one week, yet they remain in the woods for a period of six
months, cut off from all intercourse with the outside world, and in the meanwhile each receives
separate instruction how to prepare his medicine-bag. Forever after, each one is mystically
united with the fetich who presides over his life. Even their nearest relatives are not allowed
to visit the boys in this retreat; and women are threatened with the severest punishment if
they be only found in the neighbourhood of a forest containing such a boy-colony. When the
priest declares the season of probation at an end, the boys return home and are welcomed back
with great rejoicings."

Concerning the other, Bosman, as reported by Schultze, says that among the negroes of Whida,
where snake-worship prevails (529. 80)--

"Every year the priestesses, armed with clubs, go about the country, picking out and carrying
away girls of from eight to twelve years of age, for the service of the god. These children
are kindly treated and instructed in songs and dances in majorem gloriam of his snakeship.
In due time they are consecrated by tattooing on their bodies certain figures, especially those
of serpents. The negroes suppose it is the snake himself that marks his elect thus. Having
received their training and consecration, which are paid for by the parents according to their
means, the children return home; and when they attain their majority are espoused to the Serpent."

In Ashanti, according to Ellis, the children of a priest or of a priestess "are not ordinarily
educated for the priestly profession, one generation being usually passed over [a curious primitive
recognition of the idea in our common saying, "genius skips a generation"], and the grand-children
selected" (438. 121). At the village of Suru several children (male and female) and youths
are handed over to the priests and priestesses to be instructed in the service of the gods,
when the goddess was thought to be offended, and in the ceremonials when the new members are
tested, youths and children take part, smeared all over with white (438. 130).

Among the natives of the Andaman Islands, as Mr. Man informs us, sometimes even "a young boy
is looked upon as a coming oko-paiad." The word signifies literally "dreamer," and such individuals
are "credited with the possession of supernatural powers, such as second sight" (498. 28).

Captain Bourke, in his detailed account of the "medicine-men" of the Apaches, speaking of the
Pueblos Indians, says: "While I was at Tusayan, in 1881, I heard of a young boy, quite a child,
who was looked up to by the other Indians, and on special occasions made his appearance decked
out in much native finery of beads and gewgaws, but the exact nature of his duties and supposed
responsibilities could not be ascertained." He seems to have been a young "medicine-man" (406.
456).

Into the "medicine-society" of the Delaware Indians "the boys were usually initiated at the
age of twelve or fourteen years, with very trying ceremonies, fasting, want of sleep, and other
tests of their physical and mental stamina." Of these same aborigines the missionary Brainerd
states: "Some of their diviners (or priests) are endowed with the spirit in infancy; others
in adult age. It seems not to depend upon their own will, nor to be acquired by any endeavours
of the person who is the subject of it, although it is supposed to be given to children sometimes
in consequence of some means which the parents use with them for that purpose" (516. 81).

Among the Chippeway (Ojibwa), also, children are permitted to belong to the "Midewewin or 'Grand
Medicine Society,'" of which Dr. W. J. Hoffman has given so detailed a description--Sikassige,
a Chippeway of Mille Lacs, having taken his "first degree" at ten years of age (473.172).

The Angakok.

Among the Eskimo the angakok, or shaman, trains his child from infancy in the art of sorcery,
taking him upon his knee during his incantations and conjurations. In one of the tales in the
collection of Rink we read (525. 276): "A great angakok at his conjurations always used to
talk of his having been to Akilinek [a fabulous land beyond the ocean], and his auditors fully
believed him. Once he forced his little son to attend his conjurations, sitting upon his knee.
The boy, who was horribly frightened, said: 'Lo! what is it I see? The stars are dropping down
in the old grave on yonder hill.' The father said: 'When the old grave is shining to thee,
it will enlighten thy understanding.' When the boy had been lying in his lap for a while, he
again burst out: 'What is it I now see? The bones in the old grave are beginning to join together.'
The father only repeating his last words, the son grew obstinate and wanted to run away, but
the father still kept hold of him. Lastly, the ghost from the grave came out, and being called
upon by the angakok, he entered the house to fetch the boy, who only perceived a strong smell
of maggots, and then fainted away. On recovering his senses, he found himself in the grave
quite naked, and when he arose and looked about, his nature was totally altered--he found himself
able at a sight to survey the whole country to the farthest north, and nothing was concealed
from him. All the dwelling-places of man appeared to be close together, side by side; and on
looking at the sea, he saw his father's tracks stretching across to Akilinek. When going down
to the house, he observed his clothes flying through the air, and had only to put forth his
hands and feet to make them cover his body again. But on entering the house he looked exceedingly
pale, because of the great angakok wisdom he had acquired down in the old grave. After he had
become an angakok himself, he once went on a flight to Akilinek."

Besides this interesting account of an angakok seance, the same authority, in the story of
the angakok Tugtutsiak, records the following (525. 324): "Tugtutsiak and his sister were a
couple of orphans, and lived in a great house. It once happened that all the grown-up people
went away berry-gathering, leaving all children at home. Tugtutsiak, who happened to be the
eldest of them, said: 'Let us try to conjure up spirits'; and some of them proceeded to make
up the necessary preparations, while he himself undressed, and covered the door with his jacket,
and closed the opening at the sleeves with a string. He now commenced the invocation, while
the other children got mortally frightened, and were about to take flight. But the slabs of
the floor were lifted high in the air, and rushed after them. Tugtutsiak would have followed
them, but felt himself sticking fast to the floor, and could not get loose until he had made
the children come back, and ordered them to uncover the door, and open the window, on which
it again became light in the room, and he was enabled to get up."

Girls, too, among the Eskimo, could become angakoks or shamans. Rink tells of one who visited
the under-world, where she received presents, but these, while she was carrying them home,
"were wafted out of her hands, and flew back to their first owners."

Of the Pawnee Indians, Mr. Grinnell informs us that the legend of their wanderings tells of
a boy in whose possession was the sacred "medicine-bundle" of the tribe, and who was regarded
as the oracle-interpreter (480 (1893). 125).

Witches.

As Dr. Mackay has remarked, in all the woeful annals of the witch-persecutions, there is nothing
so astounding and revolting as the burning and putting to death of mere children for practising
the arts of the devil. Against innocents of both sexes counting no more than ten or twelve
years, there appear on the records the simple but significant words convicta et combusta--convicted
and burned. Here the degradation of intellect and morals reaches its lowest level; it was Satan
and not Jesus who bade the children come unto him; their portion was the kingdom of hell, not
that of heaven. In Wurzburg, between 1627 and 1629, no fewer than 157 persons suffered death
for witchcraft (guilty and innocent), and among these were included "the prettiest girl in
the town"; two mere boys; a wandering boy of twelve; a maiden of nine and her sister, younger
in years; two boys of twelve; a girl of fifteen; a boy of ten and a boy of twelve; three boys
of from ten to fifteen years of age. At Lille, in 1639, a whole school of girls--fifty in number--barely
escaped burning as witches (496 a. II. 266-287). Everywhere the maddened, deluded people made
sacrifice of their dearest and holiest, tainted, they thought, with the touch of the evil one
(496 a. II. 285). (191. 344).

In the London Times for Dec. 8, 1845, appeared the following extract from the Courier, of Inverness,
Scotland: "Our Wick contemporary gives the following recent instance of gross ignorance and
credulity: 'Not far from Louisburg there lives a girl who, until a few days ago, was suspected
of being a witch. In order to cure her of the witchcraft, a neighbour actually put her into
a creed half-filled with wood and shavings, and hung her above a fire, setting the shavings
in a blaze. Fortunately for the child and himself, she was not injured, and it is said that
the gift of sorcery has been taken away from her. At all events, the intelligent neighbours
aver that she is not half so witch-like in appearance since she was singed" (408. III. 14).

Concerning the sect of the Nagualists or "Magicians" of Mexico and Central America Dr. Brinton
tells us much in his interesting little book (413). These sorcerers recruited their ranks from
both sexes, and "those who are selected to become the masters of these arts are taught from,
early childhood how to draw and paint these characters and are obliged to learn by heart the
formulas, and the names of the ancient Nagualists, and whatever else is included in these written
documents" (413. 17).

We learn that "in the sacraments of Nagualism, woman was the primate and hierophant," the admission
of the female sex to the most exalted positions and the most esoteric degrees being a remarkable
feature of this great secret society (413. 33). Indeed, Aztec tradition, like that of Honduras,
speaks of an ancient sorceress, mother of the occult sciences, and some of the legends of the
Nagualists trace much of their art to a mighty enchantress of old (413. 34).

In 1713, the Tzendals of Chiapas rose in insurrection under the American Joan of Arc, an Indian
girl about twenty years of age, whose Spanish name was Maria Candelaria. She was evidently
a leader of the Nagualists, and after the failure of the attempt at revolution disappeared
in the forest and was no more heard of (413. 35). Dr. Brinton calls attention to the fact that
Mr. E. G. Squier reports having heard, during his travels in Central America, of a "sukia woman,
as she was called by the coast Indians, one who lived alone amid the ruins of an old Maya temple,
a sorceress of twenty years, loved and feared, holding death and life in her hands" (413. 36).
There are many other instances of a like nature showing the important position assigned to
girls and young women in the esoteric rites, secret societies, magic, sorcery, and witch- craft
of primitive peoples.

"Boy-Bishop."

A curious custom attached itself to the day of St. Nicholas, of Patara in Lycia (died 343 A.D.),
the patron saint of boys, after whom the American boys' magazine St. Nicholas is aptly named.
Brewer, in his Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, has the following paragraph concerning the "Boy-Bishop,"
as he is termed: "The custom of choosing a boy from the cathedral choir, etc., on St. Nicholas
day (6th December), as a mock bishop is very ancient. The boy possessed episcopal honour for
three weeks, and the rest of the choir were his prebends. If he died during the time of his
prelacy, he was buried in pontificalibus. Probably the reference is to Jesus Christ sitting
in the Temple among the doctors while he was a boy. The custom was abolished in the reign of
Henry Eighth" (p. 110). Brand gives many details of the election and conduct of the "Boy-Bishops,"
and the custom seems to have been in vogue in almost every parish and collegiate church (408.
I. 415-431). Bishop Hall thus expresses himself on the subject: "What merry work it was here
in the days of our holy fathers (and I know not whether, in some places it may not be so still),
that upon St. Nicholas, St. Katherine, St. Clement, and Holy Innocents' Day, children were
wont to be arrayed in chimers, rochets, surplices, to counterfeit bishops and priests, and
to be led with songs and dances from house to house, blessing the people, who stood grinning
in the way to expect that ridiculous benediction. Yea, that boys in that holy sport were wont
to sing masses, and to climb into the pulpit to preach (no doubt learnedly and edifyingly)
to the simple auditory. And this was so really done, that in the cathedral church of Salisbury
(unless it be lately defaced) there is a perfect monument of one of these Boy-Bishops (who
died in the time of his young pontificality), accoutred in his episcopal robes, still to be
seen. A fashion that lasted until the later times of King Henry the Eighth, who, in 1541, by
his solemn Proclamation, printed by Thomas Bertlet, the king's printer, cum privilegio, straitly
forbad the practice." (408. I. 422).

The records of the churches contain many particulars of the election, duties, and regalia of
these boy-bishops, whence it would appear that expense and ceremony were not spared on these
occasions.

Another boy-bishop was paid "thirteen shillings and sixpence for singing before King Edward
the Third, in his chamber, on the day of the Holy Innocents" (408. I. 428).

The Boy-Bishop of Salisbury, whose service set to music is printed in the Processionale et
usum insignis et preclare Ecclesie Sarum, 1566, is actually said "to have had the power of
disposing of such prebends there as happened to fall vacant during the days of his episcopacy"
(408. I. 424). With the return of Catholicism under Mary, as Brand remarks, the Boy-Bishop
was revived, for we find an edict of the Bishop of London, issued Nov. 13, 1554, to all the
clergy of his diocese, to the effect that "they should have a Boy-Bishop in procession," and
Warton notes that "one of the child-bishop's songs, as it was sung before the Queen's Majesty,
in her privy chamber; at her manor of St. James in the Field's on St. Nicholas's Day, and Innocents'
Day, 1555, by the child-bishop of St. Paul's, with his company, was printed that year in London,
containing a fulsome panegyric on the queen's devotions, comparing her to Judith, Esther, the
Queen of Sheba, and the Virgin Mary" (408. I. 429-430). The places at which the ceremonies
of the Boy-Bishop have been particularly noted are: Canterbury, Eton, St. Paul's, London, Colchester,
Winchester, Salisbury, Westminster, Lambeth, York, Beverly, Rotherham, Newcastle-upon-Tyne,
etc. The Boy-Bishop was known also in Spain and in France; in the latter country he was called
Pape-Colas. In Germany, at the Council of Salzburg, in 1274, on account of the scandals they
gave rise to, the ludi noxii quos vulgaris eloquentia Episcopatus Puerorum appellat, were placed
under the ban (408. I. 426).

It would appear from the mention of "children strangely decked and apparelled to counterfeit
priests, bishops, and women," that on these occasions "divine service was not only performed
by boys, but by little girls," and "there is an injunction given to the Benedictine Nunnery
of Godstowe in Oxfordshire, by Archbishop Peckham, in the year 1278, that on Innocents' Day
the public prayers should not any more be said in the church of that monastery per parvulas,
i.e. little girls" (408. I. 428).

Though with the Protestantism of Elizabeth the Boy-Bishop and his revels were put down by the
authorities, they continued to survive, in some places at least, the end of her reign. Puttenham,
in his Art of Poesie (1589), observes: "On St. Nicholas's night, commonly, the scholars of
the country make them a bishop, who, like a foolish boy, goeth about blessing and preaching
with such childish terms as make the people laugh at his foolish counterfeit speeches" (408.
427). Brand recognizes in the iter ad montem of the scholars at Eton the remnants of the ceremonies
of the Boy-Bishop and his associates (408. 432); and indeed a passage which he cites from the
Status Schola Etonensis (1560) shows that "in the Papal times the Eton scholars (to avoid interfering,
as it should seem, with the boy-bishop of the college there on St. Nicholas's Day) elected
their boy-bishop on St. Hugh's Day, in the month of November." Brand quotes Strype, the author
of the Ecclesiastical Memorials, as observing: "I shall only remark, that there might be this
at least said in favour of this old custom, that it gave a spirit to the children; and the
hopes that they might one time or other attain to the real mitre made them mind their books."

In his poem, The Boy and the Angel, Robert Browning tells how Theocrite, the boy-craftsman,
sweetly praised God amid his weary toil. On Easter Day he wished he might praise God as Pope,
and the angel Gabriel took the boy's place in the workshop, while the latter became Pope in
Rome. But the new. Pope sickened of the change, and God himself missed the welcome praise of
the happy boy. So back went the Pope to the workshop and boyhood, and praise rose up to God
as of old. Somewhat different from the poet's story is the tale of the lama of Tibet, a real
boy-pope. The Grand Lama, or Pope, is looked upon as an incarnation of Buddha and as immortal,
never suffering death, but merely transmigration (100. 499).

Among various peoples, the child has occupied all sacerdotal positions from acolyte to pope--priest
he has been, not in barbarism alone, but in the midst of culture and civilization, where often
the jest begun has ended in sober earnest. In the ecclesiastical, as well as in the secular,
kingdom, the child has often come to his throne when "young in years, but in sage counsel old."

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE CHILD AS HERO, ADVENTURER, ETC.

  O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother!--Shakespeare.

  Who can foretell for what high cause
  This Darling of the Gods was born?--Marvell.

Carlyle has said: "The History of the World is the Biography of Great Men." He might have added,
that in primitive times much of the History of the World is the Biography of Great Children.
Andrew Lang, in his edition of Perrault's Tales, speaking of Le Petit Poucet (Hop o' My Thumb),
says: "While these main incidents of Hop o' My Thumb are so widely current, the general idea
of a small and tricksy being is found frequently, from the Hermes of the Homeric Hymn to the
Namaqua Heitsi Eibib, the other Poucet, or Tom Thumb, and the Zulu Uhlakanyana. Extraordinary
precocity, even from the day of birth, distinguishes these beings (as Indra and Hermes) in
myth. In Marchen, it is rather their smallness and astuteness than their youth that commands
admiration, though they are often very precocious. The general sense of the humour of 'infant
prodigies' is perhaps the origin of these romances" (p. ex.).

This world-homage to childhood finds apt expression in the verses of Mrs. Darmesteter:--

  "Laying at the children's feet
   Each his kingly crown,
  Each, the conquering power to greet,
   Laying humbly down.
  Sword and sceptre as is meet."

All over the globe we find wonder-tales of childhood, stories of the great deeds of children,
whose venturesomeness has saved whole communities from destruction, whose heroism has rid the
world of giants and monsters of every sort, whose daring travels and excursions into lands
or skies unknown have resulted in the great increase of human knowledge and the advancement
of culture and civilization. In almost all departments of life the child-hero has left his
mark, and there is much to tell of his wonderful achievements.

Finnish Child-Heroes.

In Finnish story we meet with Pikku mies, the dwarf-god, and in Altaic legend the child Kan
Pudai, who was fed upon two hundred hares, who tames wild animals, makes himself a bow and
bow-string, and becomes a mighty hero. In Esthonian folk-lore we have the tale of the seven-year-old
wise girl, the persecution to which she was subjected at the hands of her stepmother, and the
great deeds she accomplished (422. II. 144, 147, 154). But, outside of the wonderful infancy
of Wainamoinen, the culture-hero of the Finns, whom the Kalevala has immortalized, we find
some striking tributes to the child-spirit. In the closing canto of this great epic, which,
according to Andrew Lang, tells, in savage fashion, the story of the introduction of Christianity,
we learn how the maiden Marjatta, "as pure as the dew is, as holy as stars are that live without
stain," was feeding her flocks and listening to the singing of the golden cuckoo, when a berry
fell into her bosom, and she conceived and bore a son, whereupon the people despised and rejected
her. Moreover, no one would baptize the infant: "The god of the wilderness refused, and Wainamoinen
would have had the young child slain. Then the infant rebuked the ancient demi-god, who fled
in anger to the sea." As Wainamoinen was borne away in his magic barque by the tide, he lifted
up his voice and sang how when men should have need of him they would look for his return,
"bringing back sunlight and moonshine, and the joy that is vanished from the world." Thus did
the rebuke of the babe close the reign of the demi-gods of old (484. 171-177).

Italian.

On the other hand, it is owing to a child, says a sweet Italian legend, that "the gates of
heaven are forever ajar." A little girl-angel, up in heaven, sat grief-stricken beside the
gate, and begged the celestial warder to set the gates ajar:--

 "I can hear my mother weeping;
  She is lonely; she cannot see
  A glimmer of light in the darkness,
  Where the gates shut after me.
  Oh! turn the key, sweet angel,
  The splendour will shine so far!"

But the angel at the gate dared not, and the childish appeal seemed vain until the mother of
Jesus touched his hand, when, lo! "in the little child-angel's fingers stood the beautiful
gates ajar." And they have been so ever since, for Mary gave to Christ the keys, which he has
kept safe hidden in his bosom, that every sorrowing mother may catch a glimpse of the glory
afar (379. 28-30).

Persian Deed-Maiden.

I fatti sono maschi, le parole femmine,--deeds are masculine, words feminine,--says the Italian
proverb. The same thought is found in several of our own writers. George Herbert said bluntly:
"Words are women, deeds are men"; Dr. Madden: "Words are men's daughters, but God's sons are
things"; Dr. Johnson, in the preface to his great dictionary, embodies the saying of the Hindus:
"Words are the daughters of earth, things are the sons of heaven."

In compensation for so ungracious a distinction, perhaps, the religion of Zoroaster, the ancient
faith of Persia, teaches that, on the other side of death, the soul is received by its good
deeds in the form of a beautiful maiden who conducts it through the three heavens to Ahura
(the deity of good), and it is refreshed with celestial food (470. II. 421). That children
should be brought into close relationship with the stars and other celestial bodies is to be
expected from the milieu of folk-life, and the feeling of kinship with all the phenomena of nature.

Moon-Children.

In his exhaustive essay on Moon Lore, Rev. Mr. Harley tells us that in the Scandinavian mythology,
Mani, the moon, "once took up two children from the earth, Bill and Hiuki, as they were going
from the well of Byrgir, bearing on their shoulders the bucket Soeg, and the pole Simul," and
placed them in the moon, "where they could be seen from the earth." The modern Swedish folk-lore
represents the spots on the moon as two children carrying water in a bucket, and it is this
version of the old legend which Miss Humphrey has translated (468. 24-26).

According to Mr. Duncan, the well-known missionary to certain of the native tribes of British
Columbia, these Indians of the far west have a version of this legend: "One night a child of
the chief class awoke and cried for water. Its cries were very affecting--'Mother, give me
to drink!' but the mother heeded not. The moon was affected and came down, entered the house,
and approached the child, saying, 'Here is water from heaven: drink.' The child anxiously laid
hold of the pot and drank the draught, and was enticed to go away with the moon, its benefactor.
They took an underground passage till they got quite clear of the village, and then ascended
to heaven" (468. 35, 36). The story goes on to say that "the figure we now see in the moon
is that very child; and also the little round basket which it had in its hand when it went
to sleep appears there."

The Rev. George Turner reports a Polynesian myth from the Samoan Islands, in which the moon
is represented as coming down one evening and picking up a woman, and her child, who was beating
out bark in order to make some of the native cloth. There was a famine in the land; and "the
moon was just rising, and it reminded her of a great bread-fruit. Looking up to it, she said,
'Why cannot you come down and let my child have a bit of you?' The moon was indignant at the
idea of being eaten, came down forthwith, and took her up, child, board, mallet, and all."
To this day the Samoans, looking at the moon, exclaim: "Yonder is Sina and her child, and her
mallet and board." Related myths are found in the Tonga Islands and the Hervey Archipelago
(468. 59).

The Eskimo of Greenland believed that the sun and the moon were originally human beings, brother
and sister. The story is that "they were playing with others at children's games in the dark,
when Malina, being teased in a shameful manner by her brother Anninga, smeared her hands with
the soot of the lamp, and rubbed them over the face and hands of her persecutor, that she might
recognize him by daylight. Hence arise the spots in the moon. Malina rushed to save herself
by flight, but her brother followed at her heels. At length she flew upwards, and became the
sun. Anninga, followed her, and became the moon; but being unable to mount so high he runs
continually round the sun in hopes of some time surprising her" (468. 34).

There are many variants of this legend in North and in Central America.

In her little poem The Children in the Moon, Miss Humphrey has versified an old folk-belief
that the "tiny cloudlets flying across the moon's shield of silver" are a little lad and lass
with a pole across their shoulders, at the end of which is swinging a water-bucket. These children,
it is said, used to wander by moonlight to a well in the northward on summer nights to get
a pail of water, until the moon snatched them up and "set them forever in the middle of his
light," so that--

  "Children, ay, and children's children,
  Should behold my babes on high;
  And my babes should smile forever,
  Calling others to the sky!"

Thus it is that--

 "Never is the bucket empty,
  Never are the children old,
  Ever when the moon is shining
  We the children may behold" (224. 23-25).

In Whittier's Child Life, this poem is given as "from the Scandinavian," with the following
additional stanzas:--

 "Ever young and ever little,
  Ever sweet and ever fair!
  When thou art a man, my darling,
  Still the children will be there.

 "Ever young and ever little,
  They will smile when thou art old;
  When thy locks are thin and silver,
  Theirs will still be shining gold.

 "They will haunt thee from their heaven,
  Softly beckoning down the gloom;
  Smiling in eternal sweetness
  On thy cradle, on thy tomb" (379. 115-117).

The Andaman Islanders say that the sun is the wife of the moon, and the stars are their children--boys
and girls--who go to sleep during the day, and are therefore not seen of men (498. 92). The
sun is termed cha'n'a bo'do, "Mother Sun"; the moon, mai'a 'o-gar, "Mr. Moon" (498. 59). In
many other mythologies the stars, either as a whole, or in part, figure as children. In the
figurative language of ancient records the patriarchs are promised descendants as numerous
as the stars of heaven, and in the Tshi language of Western Africa, the stars are termed woh-rabbah,
from woh, "to breed, multiply, be fruitful," and abbah, "children." The South Australian natives
thought the stars were groups of children, and even in the classic legends of Greece and Rome
more than one child left earth to shine in heaven as a star.

In the belief of the natives of the Hervey Islands, in the South Pacific, the double star 
¹ and    Scorpii is a brother and sister, twins, who, fleeing from a scolding mother, leapt
up into the sky. The bright stars [Greek: m] and [Greek: l] Scorpii are their angry parents
who follow in pursuit, but never succeed in overtaking their runaway children, who, clinging
close together,--for they were very fond of each other,--flee on and on through the blue sky.
The girl, who is the elder, is called Inseparable, and Mr. Gill tells us that a native preacher,
alluding to this favourite story, declared, with a happy turn of speech, that "Christ and the
Christian should be like these twin stars, ever linked together, come life, come death." He
could scarcely have chosen a more appropriate figure. The older faith that was dying lent the
moral of its story to point the eloquence of the new (458. 40-43).

Hindu Child-Heroes.

In the Rig-Veda we have the story of the three brothers, the youngest of whom, Tritas, is quite
a child, but accomplishes wonderful things and evinces more than human knowledge; also the
tale of Vikramadityas, the wise child (422. II. 136).

In the interesting collection of Bengalese folk-tales by Rev. Lal Behari Day we find much that
touches upon childhood: The story of the "Boy whom Seven Mothers Suckled," and his wonderful
deeds in the country of the Rakshasis (cannibals)--how he obtained the bird with whose life
was bound up that of the wicked queen, and so brought about her death; the tale of the "Boy
with the Moon on his Forehead"--how he rescued the beautiful Lady Pushpavati from the power
of the Rakshasis over-sea! We have also the wonder-tales of Buddha.

In a tale of the Panjab, noted by Temple (542. II. xvi.), "a couple of gods, as children, eat
up at a sitting a meal meant for 250,000 people"; and in a Little Russian story "a mother had
a baby of extraordinary habits. When alone, he jumped out of the cradle, no longer a baby,
but a bearded old man, gobbled up the food out of the store, and then lay down again a screeching
babe." He was finally exorcised (258. 119). A huge appetite is a frequent characteristic of
changelings in fairy-stories (258.108).

Japanese Child-Heroes.

The hero of Japanese boys is Kintaro, the "Wild Baby," the "Golden Darling." Companionless
he played with the animals, put his arm around their necks, and rode upon their backs. Of him
we are told: "He was prince of the forest; the rabbits, wild boars, squirrels and pheasants
and hawks, were his servants and messengers." He is the apotheosis of the child in Japan, "the
land of the holy gods," as its natives proudly termed it (245.121).

Another boy-hero is Urashima, who visited Elysium in a fishing-boat. A third phenomenal child
of Japanese story is "Peach Darling," who, while yet a baby, lifted the wash-tub and balanced
the kettle on his head (245. 62). We must remember, however, that the Japanese call their beautiful
country "the land of the holy gods," and the whole nation makes claim to a divine ancestry.
Visits to the other world, the elfin-land, etc., are found all over the world.

German.

In Germany and Austria we have the stories of (258. 140-160): The girl who stole the serpent-king's
crown; the Pomeranian farmer's boy who, after quenching his thirst with the brown beer of the
fairies, tried to run off with the can of pure silver in which it was contained (in a Cornish
legend, however, the farmer's boy pockets one of the rich silver goblets which stood on the
tables in the palace of the king of the piskies, or fairies, and proves the truth of the story
he has afterwards to tell by producing the goblet, "which remained in the boy's family for
generations, though unfortunately it is no longer forthcoming for the satisfaction of those
who may still be sceptical." A like origin has been suggested for the celebrated "Luck of Edenhall,"
and the "Horn of Oldenburg," and other like relics); the Carinthian girl, who, climbing a mountain
during the noon-hour, entered through a door in the rock, and remained away a whole year, though
it seemed but a little while; the baker's boy who visited the lost Emperor in the mountain--the
Barbarossa-Otto legend; the baker's daughter of Ruffach, who made her father rich by selling
bread to the soldiers in a great subterranean camp; the girl of Silesia, who is admitted into
a cavern, where abides a buried army; and many more of a similar nature, to be read in Grimm
and the other chroniclers of fairy-land (258. 216. 217).

Among the Danish legends of kindred type we find the tales of: The boy who ran off with the
horn out of which an elf-maiden offered him a drink, and would not return it until she had
promised to bestow upon him the strength of twelve men, with which, unluckily, went also the
appetite of twelve men (258. 144).

Celtic.

Among the Welsh tales of the child as hero and adventurer are: The visit of Elidorus (afterwards
a priest), when twelve years old, to the underground country, where he stole a golden ball,
which, however, the pigmies soon recovered; the youths who were drawn into the fairies' ring
and kept dancing for a year and a day until reduced to a mere skeleton; the little farmer's
son, who was away among the fairies for two years, though he thought he had been absent but
a day; corresponding is the Breton tale of the girl who acts as godmother to a fairy child,
and remains away for ten long years, though for only two days in her own mind (258. 135, 136,
168, 170).

Very interesting is the Breton legend of the youth who undertook to take a letter to God,--Monsieur
le Bon Dieu,--in Paradise. When he reaches Paradise, he gives the letter to St. Peter, who
proceeds to deliver it. While he is away, the youth, noticing the spectacles on the table,
tries them on, and is astonished at the wonders he sees, and still more at the information
given him by St. Peter on his return, that he has been gazing through them five hundred years.
Another hundred years he passes in looking at the seat kept for him in Paradise, and then receives
the answer to the letter, which he is to take to the parish priest. After distributing in alms
the hundred crowns he is paid for his services, he dies and goes to Paradise to occupy the
seat he has seen. As Mr. Hartland remarks, "the variants of this traditional Pilgrim's Progress
are known from Brittany to Transylvania, and from Iceland to Sicily" (258. 192).

Basque.

A remarkable child-hero tale is the Basque legend of the orphans, Izar (seven years old) and
Lanoa (nine years old), and their adventures with Satan and the witches,--how Izar cured the
Princess and killed the great toad which was the cause of her complaint, and how Lanoa defied
Satan to his face, meeting death by his action, but gaining heaven (505. 19-41).

American Indian Child-Heroes.

In a legend of the Tlingit Indians concerning the visit of Ky'itlac', a man who had killed
himself, to the upper country ruled by Tahit, whither go such as die a violent death, we read
that--

"When he looked down upon the earth, he saw the tops of the trees looking like so many pins.
But he wished to return to the earth. He pulled his blanket over his head and flung himself
down. He arrived at the earth unhurt, and found himself at the foot of some trees. Soon he
discovered a small house, the door of which was covered with mats. He peeped into it, and heard
a child crying that had just been born. He himself was that child, and when he came to be grown
up he told the people of Tahit. They had heard about him before, but only then they learnt
everything about the upper world" (403. 48, 49).

In a legend of the Kwakiutl Indians of Vancouver Island, a chief killed by a rival goes to
the other world, but returns to earth in his grandson: "It was Ank-oa'lagyilis who was thus
born again. The boy, when a few years old, cried and wanted to have a small boat made, and,
when he had got it, asked for a bow and arrows. His father scolded him for having so many wishes.
Then the boy said, 'I was at one time your father, and have returned from heaven.' His father
did not believe him, but then the boy said, 'You know that Ank-oa'lagyilis had gone to bury
his property, and nobody knows where it is. I will show it to you.' He took his father right
to the place where it lay hidden, and bade him distribute it. There were two canoe-loads of
blankets. Now the people knew that Ank'oa'lagyilis had returned. He said, 'I was with ata [the
deity], but he sent me back.' They asked him to tell about heaven, but he refused to do so."
The boy afterwards became a chief, and it is said he refused to take revenge upon his murderer
(404. 59).

In the mythology of the Siouan tribes we meet with the "Young Rabbit," born of a piece of the
clotted blood of the Buffalo killed by Grizzly Bear, which the Rabbit had stolen. According
to legend the Rabbit "addressed the blood, calling it his son, and ordering it to become a
little child, and when he had ordered it to advance from infancy, through boyhood to youth,
and from youth to manhood, his commands were obeyed." The "Young Rabbit" kills the Grizzly
and delivers his own father (480 (1892). 293-304).

The legend of the "Blood-clot Boy" is also recorded from the narration of the Blackfeet Indians
by Bev. John MacLean and Mr. Grinnell. The tale of his origin is as follows: "There lived,
a long time ago, an old man and his wife, who had three daughters and one son-in-law. One day,
as the mother was cooking some meat, she threw a clot of blood into the pot containing the
meat. The pot began to boil, and then there issued from it a peculiar hissing noise. The old
woman looked into the pot, and was surprised to see that the blood-clot had become transformed
into a little boy. Quickly he grew, and, in a few moments, he sprang from the pot, a full-grown
young man." Kutoyis, as the youth was named, became an expert hunter, and kept the family in
food. He also killed his lazy and quarrelsome brother-in-law, and brought peace to the family.
Of Kutoyis it is said he "sought to drive out all the evil in the world, and to unite the people
and make them happy" (480(1893).167).

Concerning the Micmac Indians of Nova Scotia, Mr. Band informs us (521.xlii.):--

"Children exposed or lost by their parents are miraculously preserved. They grow up suddenly
to manhood, and are endowed with superhuman powers; they become the avengers of the guilty
and the protectors of the good. They drive up the moose and the caribou to their camps, and
slaughter them at their leisure. The elements are under their control; they can raise the wind,
conjure up storms or disperse them, make it hot or cold, wet or dry, as they please. They can
multiply the smallest amount of food indefinitely, evade the subtlety and rage of their enemies,
kill them miraculously, and raise their slaughtered friends to life."

A characteristic legend of this nature is the story of Noojekesigunodasit and the "magic dancing-doll."
Noojekesigunodasit,--"the sock wringer and dryer," so-called because, being the youngest of
the seven sons of an Indian couple, he had to wring and dry the moccasin-rags of his elders,--was
so persecuted by the eldest of his brothers, that he determined to run away, and "requests
his mother to make him a small bow and arrow and thirty pairs of moccasins." He starts out
and "shoots the arrow ahead, and runs after it. In a short time he is able to outrun the arrow
and reach the spot where it is to fall before it strikes the ground. He then takes it up and
shoots again, and flies on swifter than the arrow. Thus he travels straight ahead, and by night
he has gone a long distance from home." His brother starts in pursuit, but, after a hundred
days, returns home discouraged. Meanwhile, the boy travels on and meets a very old man, who
tells him that the place from whence he came is a long way off, for "I was a small boy when
I started, and since that day I have never halted, and you see that now I am very old." The
boy says, however, that he will try to reach the place, and, after receiving from the old man
a little box in return for a pair of moccasins,--for those of the traveller were quite worn
out,--he goes his way. By and by the boy's curiosity leads him to open the box, and

"As soon as he has removed the cover, he starts with an exclamation of surprise, for he sees
a small image, in the form of a man, dancing away with all his might, and reeking with perspiration
from the long-continued exertion. As soon as the light is let in upon him, he stops dancing,
looks up suddenly, and exclaims, 'Well, what is it? What is wanted?' The truth now flashes
over the boy. This is a supernatural agent, a manitoo, a god, from the spirit world, which
can do anything that he is requested to do." The boy wished "to be transported to the place
from whence the old man came," and, closing the box, "suddenly his head swims, the darkness
comes over him, and he faints. When he recovers he finds himself near a large Indian village."
By the aid of his doll--weedapcheejul, "little comrade," he calls it--he works wonders, and
obtains one of the daughters of the chief as his wife, and ultimately slays his father-in-law,
who is a great "medicine-man." This story, Mr. Rand says he "wrote down from the mouth of a
Micmac Indian in his own language"; it will bear comparison with some European folk-tales (521.
7-13).

Another story of boy wonder-working, with some European trappings, however, is that of "The
Boy who was transformed into a Horse." Of this wonderful infant it is related that "at the
age of eighteen months the child was able to talk, and immediately made inquiries about his
elder brother [whom his father had 'sold to the devil']." The child then declares his intention
of finding his lost brother, and, aided by an "angel,"--this tale is strangely hybrid,--discovers
him in the form of a horse, restores him to his natural shape, and brings him safely home;
but changes the wicked father into a horse, upon whose back an evil spirit leaps and runs off
with him (521. 31).

Other tales of boy adventure in Dr. Rand's collection are: "The History of Kitpooseagunow"
[i.e. "taken from the side of his mother," as a calf of a moose or a caribou is after the mother
has fallen] (521. 62-80); "The Infant Magician"; "The Invisible Boy," who could change himself
into a moose, and also become invisible (521. 101-109); "The Badger and his Little Brother"
(521. 263-269), in which the latter helps the former decoy the water-fowl to destruction, but,
repenting at the wanton slaughter, gives the alarm, and many birds escape; "The Little Boy
who caught a Whale" (521. 280-281). The story of "The Small Baby and the Big Bird" contains
many naive touches of Indian life. The hero of the tale is a foundling, discovered in the forest
by an old woman, "so small that she easily hides it in her mitten." Having no milk for the
babe, which she undertakes to care for, the woman "makes a sort of gruel from the scrapings
of the inside of raw-hide, and thus supports and nourishes it, so that it thrives and does
well." By and by he becomes a mighty hunter, and finally kills the old culloo (giant bird)
chief, tames the young culloo, and discovers his parents (521. 81-93).

In the mythologic tales of the Iroquois, the child appears frequently as a hero and an adventurer.
Mrs. Erminnie A. Smith, in treating of The Myths of the Iroquois (534), relates the stories
of the infant nursed by bears; the boy whom his grandmother told never to go west, but who
at last started off in that direction, and finally killed the great frog (into which form the
man who had been tormenting them turned himself); the boy who, after interfering with his uncle's
magic wand and kettle, and thereby depriving the people of corn, set out and managed to return
home with plenty of corn, which he had pilfered from the witches who guarded it,--all interesting
child exploits.

Among the myths of the Cherokees,--a people related in speech to the Iroquois,--as reported
by Mr. James Mooney, we find a story somewhat similar to the last mentioned,--"Kanati and Selu:
the Origin of Corn and Game" (506. 98-105), the heroes of which are Inage Utasuhi, "He who
grew up Wild," a wonderful child, born of the blood of the game washed in the river; and the
little son of Kanati ("the lucky hunter") and Selu ("Corn," his wife), his playmate, who captures
him. The "Wild Boy" is endowed with magic powers, and leads his "brother" into all sorts of
mischief. They set out to discover where the father gets all the game he brings home, and,
finding that he lifted a rock on the side of a mountain, allowing the animal he wished to come
forth, they imitated him some days afterwards, and the result was that the deer escaped from
the cave, and "then followed droves of raccoons, rabbits, and all the other four-footed animals.
Last came great flocks of turkeys, pigeons, and partridges." From their childish glee and tricksiness
the animals appear to have suffered somewhat, for we are told (506. 100): "In those days all
the deer had their tails hanging down like other animals, but, as a buck was running past,
the 'wild boy' struck its tail with his arrow, so that it stood straight out behind. This pleased
the boys, and when the next one ran by, the other brother struck his tail so that it pointed
upward. The boys thought this was good sport, and when the next one ran past, the 'wild boy'
struck his tail so that it stood straight up, and his brother struck the next one so hard with
his arrow that the deer's tail was curled over his back. The boys thought this was very pretty,
and ever since the deer has carried his tail over his back." When Kanati discovered what had
occurred (506. 100), was furious, but, without saying a word, he went down into the cave and
kicked the covers off four jars in one corner, when out swarmed bedbugs, fleas, lice, and gnats,
and got all over the boys. "After they had been tortured enough, Kanati sent them home, telling
them that, through their folly," whenever they wanted a deer to eat they would have to hunt
all over the woods for it, and then may be not find one. "When the boys got home, discovering
that Selu was a witch, they killed her and dragged her body about a large piece of ground in
front of the house, and wherever the blood fell Indian corn sprang up. Kanati then tried to
get the wolves to kill the two boys, but they trapped them in a huge pound, and burned almost
all of them to death. Their father not returning from his visit to the wolves, the boys set
out in search of him, and, after some days, found him. After killing a fierce panther in a
swamp, and exterminating a tribe of cannibals, who sought to boil the "wild boy" in a pot,
they kept on and soon lost sight of their father." At "the end of the world, where the sun
comes out," they waited "until the sky went up again" [in Cherokee cosmogony "the earth is
a flat surface, and the sky is an arch of solid rock suspended above it. This arch rises and
falls continually, so that the space at the point of juncture is constantly opening and closing,
like a pair of scissors"], and then "they went through and climbed up on the other side." Here
they met Kanati and Selu, but, after staying with them seven days, had to "go toward the sunset
land, where they are still living."

Dr. G. M. Dawson records, from the Shushwap Indians of British Columbia, the story of an old
woman,--husbandless, childless, companionless,--who, "for the sake of companionship, procured
some pitch and shaped from it the figure of a girl, which became her daughter," whom many adventures
befell (425. 33).

There is a very interesting Tahitian myth telling of the descent of little Tavai to the invisible
world. Tavai was his mother's pet, and one day, for some slight fault, was beaten by the relatives
of his father. This made Ouri, his mother, so angry, that Oema, her husband, out of shame,
went down to Hawaii, the under-world, whither Tavai, accompanied by his elder brother, journeyed,
and, after many adventures, succeeded in bringing to their mother the bones of Oema, who had
long been dead when they found him (458. 250).

Legion in number and world-wide in their affiliations are the stories of the visits of children
and youths, boys and girls, to heaven, to the nether-world, to the country of the fairies,
and to other strange and far-off lands, inhabited by elves, dwarfs, pigmies, giants, "black
spirits and white." Countless are the variants of the familiar tale of "Jack and the Bean Stalk,"
"Jack, the Giant-Killer," and many another favourite of the nursery and the schoolroom. Tylor,
Lang, Clouston, and Hartland have collated and interpreted many of these, and the books of
fairy-tales and kindred lore are now numbered by the hundred, as may be seen from the list
given by Mr. Hartland in the appendix to his work on fairy-tales. Grimm, Andersen, and the
Arabian Nights have become household names.

For children to speak before they are born is a phenomenon of frequent occurrence in the lives
of saints and the myths of savage peoples, especially when the child about to come into the
world is an incarnation of some deity. Of Gluskap, the Micmac culture-hero, and Malumsis, the
Wolf, his bad brother, we read (488. 15,16):--

"Before they were born, the babes consulted to consider how they had best enter the world.
And Glooskap said: 'I will be born as others are.' But the evil Malumsis thought himself too
great to be brought forth in such a manner, and declared that he would burst through his mother's
side. And, as they planned it, so it came to pass. Glooskap as first came quietly to light,
while Malumsis kept his word, killing his mother." Another version of the same story runs:
"In the old time, far before men knew themselves in the light before the sun, Glooskap and
his brother were as yet unborn. They waited for the day to appear. Then they talked together,
and the youngest said: 'Why should I wait? I will go into the world and begin my life at once;'
when the elder said: 'Not so, for this were a great evil.' But the younger gave no heed to
any wisdom; in his wickedness he broke through his mother's side, he rent the wall; his beginning
of life was his mother's death" (488. 106). Very similar is the Iroquois myth of the "Good
Mind" and the "Bad Mind," and variants of this American hero-myth may be read in the exhaustive
treatise of Dr. Brinton.

Very interesting is the Maya story of the twins Hun-Ahpu and Xbalanque, sons of the virgin
Xquiq, who, fleeing from her father, escaped to the upper world, where the birth took place.
Of these children we are told "they grew in strength, and performed various deeds of prowess,
which are related at length in the Popul Vuh [the folk-chronicle of the Quiches of Guatemala],
and were at last invited by the lords of the underworld to visit them." The chiefs of the underworld
intended to slay the youths, as they had previously slain their father and uncle, but through
their oracular and magic power the two brothers pretended to be burned, and, when their ashes
were thrown into the river, they rose from its waters and slew the lords of the nether world.
At this the inhabitants of Hades fled in terror and the twins "released the prisoners and restored
to life those who had been slain. The latter rose to the sky to become the countless stars,
while Hunhun-Ahpu and Vukub-Hun-Ahpu [father and uncle of the twins] ascended to dwell, the
one in the sun, the other in the moon" (411. 124).

Born of a virgin mother were also Quetzalcoatl, the culture-hero of Mexico, and other similar
characters whose lives and deeds may be read in Dr. Brinton's American Hero-Myths.

From the Indians of the Pueblo of Isleta, New Mexico, Dr. A. S. Gatschet has obtained the story
of the "Antelope-Boy," who, as the champion of the White Pueblo, defeated the Plawk, the champion
of the Yellow Pueblo, in a race around the horizon. The "Antelope-Boy" was a babe who had been
left on the prairie by its uncle, and brought up by a female antelope who discovered it. After
some trouble, the people succeeded in catching him and restoring him to his mother. Another
version of the same tale has it that "the boy-child, left by his uncle and mother upon the
prairie, was carried to the antelopes by a coyote, after which a mother-antelope, who had lost
her fawn, adopted the tiny stranger as her own. By an ingenious act of the mother-antelope
the boy was surrendered again to his real human mother; for when the circle of the hunters
grew smaller around the herd, the antelope took the boy to the northeast, where his mother
stood in a white robe. At last these two were the only ones left within the circle, and when
the antelope broke through the line on the northeast, the boy followed her and fell at the
feet of his own human mother, who sprang forward and clasped him in her arms." The Yellow Pueblo
people were wizards, and so confident were they of success that they proposed that the losing
party, their villages, property, etc., should be burnt. The White Pueblo people agreed, and,
having won the victory, proceeded to exterminate the conquered. One of the wizards, however,
managed to hide away and escape being burned, and this is why there are wizards living at this
very day (239. 213, 217).

In the beginning, says the Zuni account of the coming of men upon earth, they dwelt in the
lowermost of four subterranean caverns, called the "Four Wombs of the World," and as they began
to increase in numbers they became very unhappy, and the children of the wise men among them
besought them to deliver them from such a life of misery. Then, it is said, "The 'Holder of
the Paths of Life,' the Sun-Father, created from his own being two children, who fell to earth
for the good of all beings. The Sun-Father endowed these children with immortal youth, with
power even as his own power, and created for them a bow (the Rainbow) and an arrow (the Lightning).
For them he made also a shield like unto his own, of magic power, and a knife of flint....
These children cut the face of the world with their magic knife, and were borne down upon their
shield into the caverns in which all men dwelt. There, as the leaders of men, they lived with
their children, mankind." They afterwards led men into the second cavern, then into the third,
and finally into the fourth, whence they made their way, guided by the two children, to the
world of earth, which, having been covered with water, was damp and unstable and filled with
huge monsters and beasts of prey. The two children continued to lead men "Eastward, toward
the Home of the Sun-Father," and by their magic power, acting under the directions of their
creator, the Sun-Father, they caused the surface of the earth to harden and petrified the fierce
animals who sought to destroy the children of men (which accounts for the fossils of to-day
and the animal-like forms of rocks and boulders) (424. 13). Of this people it could have been
said most appropriately, "a little child shall lead them."

Mr. Lummis' volume of folk-tales of the Pueblos Indians of New Mexico contains many stories
of the boy as hero and adventurer. The "Antelope-Boy" who defeats the champion of the witches
in a foot-race (302. 12-21); Nah-chu-ru-chu (the "Bluish Light of the Dawn"), the parentless
hero, "wise in medicine," who married the moon, lost her, but found her again after great trouble
(302. 53-70); the boy who cursed the lake (302. 108-121); the boy and the eagle, etc. (302.
122-126). But the great figures in story at the Pueblo of Queres are the "hero-twins," Maw-Sahv
and Oo-yah-wee, sons of the Sun, wonderful and astonishing children, of whom it is said that
"as soon as they were a minute old, they were big and strong and began playing" (302. 207).
Their mother died when they were born, but was restored to life by the Crow-Mother, and returned
home with her two children, whose hero-deeds, "at an age when other boys were toddling about
the house," were the cause of infinite wonder. They killed the Giant-Woman and the Giant-Baby,
and performed unnumbered other acts of heroism while yet in childhood and youth. To the same
cycle seems to belong also the story of "The Magic Hide-and-Seek" (302.87-98).

From the Pueblo of Sia, Mrs. Stevenson has recorded the story of the twins Ma'asewe and U'yuuyewe,
sons of the Sun-Father by the virgin Ko'chinako; how they visited their father, and the adventures
that befell them on their long journey; how they killed the wolf of the lake, the cougar, the
bear, the bad eagles, burned the cruel witch, and other great enemies of the people, organized
the cult societies, and then "made their home in the Sandia Mountain, where they have since
remained." At the entrance to the crater, we are told, "the diminutive footprints of these
boys are yet to be seen by the good of heart" (538. 43-57). Among the American Indians it is
difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish the child-hero from the divinity whom he so often
closely resembles.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE CHILD AS FETICH, DEITY, GOD.

  Childhood shall be all divine.--Proctor.

  A baby's feet, like sea-shells pink,
    Might tempt, should Heaven see meet,
  An angel's lips to kiss.--Swinburne.

  Their glance might cast out pain and sin,
    Their speech make dumb the wise,
  By mute glad godhead felt within
    A baby's eyes.--Swinburne.

The Child as Fetich.

It is easy to understand how, among barbarous or semi-civilized peoples, children born deformed
or with any strange marking or defect should be looked upon as objects of fear or reverence,
fetiches in fact. Post informs us regarding certain African tribes (127. I. 285, 286):--

"The Wanika, Wakikuyu, and Wazegua kill deformed children; throttle them in the woods and bury
them. The belief is, that the evil spirit of a dead person has got into them, and such a child
would be a great criminal. The Somali let misformed children live, but regard them with superstitious
fear. In Angola all children born deformed are considered 'fetich.' In Loango dwarfs and albinos
are regarded as the property of the king, and are looked upon as sacred and inviolable."

Here we see at least some of the reasons which have led up to the eulogy and laudation, as
well as to the dread suspicion, of the dwarf and the hunchback, appearing in so many folk-tales.
We might find also, perhaps, some dim conception of the occasional simultaneity of genius with
physical defects or deformities, a fact of which a certain modern school of criminal sociologists
has made so much.

Concerning albinos Schultze says (529. 82):--

"In Borneo albinos are objects of fear, as beings gifted with supernatural power; in Senegambia,
if they are slaves, they are given their freedom, are exempted from all labour, and are cheerfully
supported at others' expense. In Congo the king keeps them in his palace as 'fetiches which
give him influence over the Europeans.' They are held in such respect that they may take whatever
they will; and he who is deprived of his property by them, esteems himself honoured. In Loango
they are esteemed above the Gangas (priests), and their hair is sold at a high price as a holy
relic. Thus may a man become a fetich." At Moree, in West Africa, Ellis informs us, "Albinos
are sacred to Aynfwa, and, on arriving at puberty, become her priests and priestesses. They
are regarded by the people as the mouth-pieces of the goddess." At Coomassie a boy-prisoner
was painted white and consecrated as a slave to the tutelary deity of the market (438. 49,
88). Coeval with their revival of primitive language-moulds in their slang, many of our college
societies and sporting clubs and associations have revived the beliefs just mentioned in their
mascots and luck-bringers--the other side of the shield showing the "Jonahs" and those fetiches
of evil import. Even great actors, stock-brokers, and politicians have their mascots. We hear
also of mascots of regiments and of ships. A little hunchback, a dwarf, a negro boy, an Italian
singing-girl, a child dressed in a certain style or colour, all serve as mascots. Criminals
and gamblers, those members of the community most nearly allied in thought and action with
barbarous and primitive man, have their mascots, and it is from this source that we derive
the word, which Andran, in his opera La Mascotte, has lifted to a somewhat higher plane, and
now each family may have a mascot, a fetich, to cause them to prosper and succeed in life (390
(1888). 111, 112).

One of the derivations suggested for this word, viz. from masque = coiffe, in the expression
ne coiffe, "born with a caul," would make the mascot to have been originally a child born with
the caul on its head, a circumstance which, as the French phrase etre ne coiffe, "to be born
lucky," indicates, betokened happiness and good-fortune for the being thus coming into the
world. In German the caul is termed "Gluckshaube," "lucky hood," and Ploss gives many illustrations
of the widespread belief in the luck that falls to the share of the child born with one. A
very curious custom exists in Oldenburg, where a boy, in order to be fortunate in love, carries
his caul about with him (326. I. 12-14). Other accidents or incidents of birth have sufficed
to make fetiches of children. Twins and triplets are regarded in many parts of the world as
smacking of the supernatural and uncanny. The various views of the races of mankind upon this
subject are given at length in Ploss (326. II. 267-275), and Post has much to say of the treatment
of twins in Africa. In Unyoro twins are looked upon as "luck-bringers, not only for the family,
but for the whole village as well. Great feasts are held in their honour, and if they die,
the house in which they were born is burned down." Among the Ishogo, from fear that one of
the pair may die, twins are practically isolated and taboo until grown up (127. I. 282, 284).

To the Ovaherero, according to Ploss, "the birth of twins is the greatest piece of good-fortune
that can fall to the lot of mortals," and such an event makes the parents "holy." Among this
Kaffir people, moreover: "Every father of twins has the right to act as substitute for the
village-chief in the exercise of his priestly functions. If the chief is not present, he can,
for example, exorcise a sick person. Even the twin-child himself has all priestly privileges.
For a twin boy there is no forbidden flesh, no forbidden milk, and no one would ever venture
to curse him. If any one should kill a twin-child, the murderer's whole village would be destroyed.
As a twin-boy, he inherits the priestly dignity at the death of the chief, and even when an
older brother succeeds the father as possessor of the village, it is, however, named after
the younger twin-brother, who is clothed with the priestly dignity" (326. II. 271-274).

Among the Songish Indians of Vancouver Island, it is believed that "twins, immediately after
their birth, possess supernatural powers. They are at once taken to the woods and washed in
a pond in order to become ordinary men." The Shushwap Indians believe that twins retain this
supernatural power throughout their lives (404. 22, 92).

Of children whose upper teeth break out before the lower, some primitive tribes are in fear
and dread, hastening to kill them, as do the Basutos, Wakikuyu, Wanika, Wazegua, and Wasawahili.
Among the Wazaramo, another African people, such children "are either put to death, given away,
or sold to a slave-holder, for the belief is that through them sickness, misfortune, and death
would enter the house." The Arabs of Zanzibar, "after reading from the Koran, administer to
such a child an oath that it will do no harm, making it nod assent with its head" (127. I. 287).

From what has preceded, we can see how hard it is sometimes to draw the line between the man
as fetich and the priest, between the divinity and the medicine-man.

Fetiches of Criminals.

It is a curious fact that St. Nicholas is at once the patron saint of children and of thieves,--the
latter even Shakespeare calls "St. Nicholas's clerks." And with robbers and the generality
of evil-doers the child, dead or alive, is much of a fetich. Anstey's Burglar Bill is humorously
exaggerated, but there is a good deal of superstition about childhood lingering in the mind
of the lawbreaker. Strack (361) has discussed at considerable length the child (dead) as fetich
among the criminal classes, especially the use made of the blood, the hand, the heart, etc.
Among the thieving fraternity in Middle Franconia it is believed that "blood taken up from
the genitals of an innocent boy on three pieces of wood, and carried about the person, renders
one invisible when stealing" (361. 41). The same power was ascribed to the eating of the hearts
(raw) of unborn children cut out of the womb of the mother. Male children only would serve,
and from the confession of the band of the robber-chief "King Daniel," who so terrified all
Ermeland in the middle of the seventeenth century, it would appear that they had already killed
for this purpose no fewer than fourteen women with child (361. 59). As late as 1815, at Heide
in Northditmarsch, one Claus Dau was executed for "having killed three children and eaten their
hearts with the belief of making himself invisible" (361. 61).

This eating of little children's hearts was thought not alone to confer the gift of invisibility,
but "when portions of nine hearts had been eaten by any one, he could not be seized, no matter
what theft or crime he committed, and, if by chance he should fall into the power of his enemies,
he could make himself invisible and thus escape." The eating of three hearts is credited with
the same power in an account of a robber of the Lower Rhine, in 1645. In the middle of the
last century, there was executed at Bayreuth a man "who had killed eight women with child,
cut them open, and eaten the warm, palpitating hearts of the children, in the belief that he
would be able to fly, if he ate the hearts of nine such children" (361. 58).

Only a few years ago (April, 1888), at Oldenburg, a workman named Bliefernicht was tried for
having killed two girls, aged six and seven years. The examination of the remains showed that
"one of the bodies not only had the neck completely cut through, but the belly cut open, so
that the entrails, lungs, and liver were exposed. A large piece of flesh had been cut out of
the buttocks and was nowhere to be found, the man having eaten it. His belief was, that whoever
ate of the flesh of innocent girls, could do anything in the world without any one being able
to make him answer for it" (361. 62).

Strack has much to say of the main-de-gloire and the chandelle magique. Widespread among thieves
is the belief in the "magic taper." At Meesow, in the Regenwald district of Pomerania, these
tapers are made of the entrails of unborn children, can only be extinguished with milk, and,
as long as they burn, no one in the house to be robbed is able to wake. It is of the hands,
however, of unbaptized or unborn children that these tapers were most frequently made. At Nurnberg,
in 1577 and 1701, there were executed two monsters who killed many women in their pursuit for
this fetich; at Vechta, in Oldenburg, the finger of an unborn child "serves with thieves to
keep asleep the people of the house they have entered, if it is simply laid on the table";
at Konow, the fat of a woman with child is used to make a similar taper. In the Ukrain district
of Poland, it is believed that the hand of the corpse of a five-year-old child opens all locks
(361. 42). This belief in the hand-of-glory and the magic candle may be due to the fact that
such children, being unbaptized and unborn, were presumed to be under the influence of the
Evil One himself. Of the wider belief in the chandelle magique and main-de-gloire (as obtained
from criminal adults) in Germany, France, Spain, etc., nothing need be said here.

At Konow, in the Kammin district of Pomerania, "if a thief takes an unborn child, dries it,
puts it in a little wooden box, and carries it on his person, he is rendered invisible to everybody,
and can steal at will" (361. 41).

The history of the robbers of the Rhine and the Main, of Westphalia, the Mark, and Silesia,
with whom the child appears so often as a fetich, evince a bestiality and inhumanity almost
beyond the power of belief.

Magic.

But it is not to the criminal classes alone that superstitions of this nature belong. Of the
alchemy, magic, black art, sorcery, and "philosophy" of the Dark Ages of Europe, the practice
of which lingered in some places well on into the seventeenth century, horrible stories are
told, in which children, their bodies, their souls even, appear as fetishes. The baptism of
blood is said still to be practised in parts of Russia by parents "to preserve their child
from the temptations of the prince of darkness," and in 1874, "a country-school teacher of
the Strassburg district, and his wife, upon the advice of a somnambulist, struck their own
aunt with the fire-tongs until the blood flowed, with which they sprinkled their child supposed
to have been bewitched by her" (361. 73). Here it is the blood of adults that is used, but
the practice demands the child's also. According to C. F. A. Hoffmann (1817), there lived in
Naples "an old doctor who had children by several women, which he inhumanly killed, with peculiar
ceremonies and rites, cutting the breast open, tearing out the heart, and from its blood preparing
precious drops which were preservative against all sickness." Well known is the story of Elizabeth
Bathori, a Hungarian woman of the early part of the seventeenth century, who, it is said, receiving
on her face a drop of blood which spurted from a waiting-girl whose ears she had severely boxed,
and noticing afterward, when she wiped it away, that her skin at that spot appeared to be more
beautiful, whiter, and finer than before, resolved to bathe her face and her whole body in
human blood, in order to increase her charms and her beauty. Before her monstrous actions were
discovered, she is thought to have caused the death of some 650 girls with the aid of accomplices
(361. 46).

Fetiches of Religion.

The use of human blood in ritual has been treated of in detail by Strack, and in his pages
many references to children will be found. He also discusses in detail the charge of the Anti-Semitics
that the Jews kill little children of their Christian neighbours for the purpose of using their
blood and certain parts of their bodies in religious rites and ceremonies, showing alike the
antiquity of this libel as well as its baselessness. Against the early Christians like charges
appear to have been made by the heathen, and later on by the Saracens; and indeed, this charge
is one which is generally levelled at new-comers or innovators in the early history of Christian
religion and civilization. Strack points out also that, during the contest of the Dominicans
and Franciscans in Bern, in 1507 A.D., it was charged that the former used the blood of Jewish
children, the eyebrows and hair of children, etc., in their secret rites (361. 68, 69).

Brewer, who gives little credit to the stories, cites the account of numerous crucifixions
of children alleged to have been carried out by Jews in various parts of Europe, for the purpose
of using their flesh and blood in their rituals, or merely out of hatred to the Christian religion.
The principal cases are: Andrew of Innspruck; Albert of Swirnazen in Podolia, aged four (1598);
St. Hugh of Lincoln, aged eleven (1255); St. Janot of Cologne (1475); St. Michael of Sappendelf
in Bavaria, aged four and one-half (1340); St. Richard of Pontoise, aged twelve (1182); St.
Simon of Trent, aged twenty-nine months and three days (1475); St. William of Norwich, aged
twelve (1137); St. Wernier (Garnier), aged thirteen (1227). The Acta Sanctorum of the Bollandists
give a long list of nameless children, who are claimed to have suffered a like fate in Spain,
France, Hungary, Austria, Germany, Italy, etc. The later charges, such as those made in the
celebrated case of the girl Esther Solymasi, whose death was alleged to have been brought about
by the Jews of Tisza-Eszlar in Hungary, in 1882, are investigated by Strack, and shown to be
utterly without foundation of fact, merely the product of frenzied Anti-Semitism (191. 171-175).

The use of blood and the sacrifice of little children, as well as other fetichistic practices,
have been charged against some of the secret religious sects of modern Russia.

Dead Children.

In Annam the natives "surround the beds of their children suffering from small-pox with nets,
and never leave them alone, fearing lest a demon, in the form of a strange child, should sneak
in and take possession of them" (397. 169, 242). This belief is akin with the widespread superstitions
with respect to changelings and other metamorphoses of childhood, to the discussion of which
Ploss and Hartland have devoted much space and attention, the latter, indeed, setting apart
some forty pages of his book on fairy-tales to the subject.

In Devonshire, England, it was formerly believed lucky to put a stillborn child into an open
grave, "as it was considered a sure passport to heaven for the next person buried there." In
the Border country, on the other hand, it is unlucky to tread on the graves of unbaptized children,
and "he who steps on the grave of a stillborn or unbaptized child, or of one who has been overlaid
by its nurse, subjects himself to the fatal disease of the grave-merels, or grave-scab." In
connection with this belief, Henderson cites the following popular verses, of considerable
antiquity:--

 "Woe to the babie that ne'er saw the sun,
    All alane and alane, oh!
  His bodie shall lie in the kirk 'neath the rain,
    All alane and alane, oh!

 "His grave must be dug at the foot o' the wall,
    All alane and alane, oh!
  And the foot that treadeth his body upon
    Shall have scab that will eat to the bane, oh!

 "And it ne'er will be cured by doctor on earth,
    Tho' every one should tent him, oh!
  He shall tremble and die like the elf-shot eye,
    And return from whence he came, oh!" (469. 13).

Among the natives of the Andaman Islands, after a dead child has been buried and the parents
have mourned for about three months, the remains are exhumed, cleansed at the seashore by the
father, and brought back to the hut, where the bones are broken up to make necklaces, which
are distributed to friends and relatives as mementos. Moreover, "the mother, after painting
the skull with koi-ob--[a mixture of yellow ochre, oil, etc.] and decorating it with small
shells attached to pieces of string, hangs it round her neck with a netted chain, called rab--.
After the first few days her husband often relieves her by wearing it himself" (498. 74,75).

According to Lumholtz, "a kind of mummy, dried by the aid of fire and smoke, is also found
in Australia. Male children are most frequently prepared in this manner. The corpse is then
packed into a bundle, which is carried for some time by the mother. She has it with her constantly,
and at night sleeps with it at her side. After about six months, when nothing but the bones
remain, she buries it in the earth. Full-grown men are sometimes treated in this manner, particularly
the bodies of great heroes" (495. 278).

Among the western Eskimo, "the mother who loses her nursling places the poor 'papoose' in a
beautifully ornamented box, which she fastens on her back and carries about her for a long
while. Often she takes the miserable mummy in her arms and makes it a kind of toilette, disinfecting
it, and removing the mouldiness" (523. 102).

According to the traveller Lander, a woman of Yoruba, in Africa, "carries for some time a wooden
figure of her lost child, and, when she eats, puts part of her food to its lips"; and Catlin
writes of the Mandan Indians: "They place the skulls of their dead in a circle. Each wife knows
the skull of her former husband or child, and there seldom passes a day that she does not visit
it with a dish of the best cooked food ... There is scarcely an hour in a pleasant day, but
more or less of these women may be seen sitting or lying by the skull of their dead child or
husband, talking to it in the most pleasant and endearing language they can use (as they were
wont to do in former days), and seemingly getting an answer back" (Spencer, Princ. of Soc.,
1882, I. 332, 326).

Of the Nishinam Indians of California, Mr. Powers tells us: "When a Nishinam wife is childless,
her sympathizing female friends sometimes make out of grass a rude image of a baby, and tie
it in a miniature baby-basket, according to the Indian custom. Some day, when the woman and
her husband are not at home, they carry this grass baby and lay it in their wigwam. When she
returns and finds it, she takes it up, holds it to her breast, pretends to nurse it, and sings
it lullaby songs. All this is done as a kind of conjuration, which they hope will have the
effect of causing the barren woman to become fertile" (519. 318).

Of certain Indians of the northern United States we read, in the early years of the present
century: "The traders on the river St. Peter's, Mississippi, report that some of them have
seen in the possession of the Indians a petrified child, which they have often wished to purchase;
but the savages regard it as a deity, and no inducement could bribe them to part with it" (Philos.
Mag. XXIX., p. 5).

Child-Worship.

As Count D'Alviella has pointed out, we have in the apocryphal book of the Wisdom of Solomon
the following interesting passage: "For a father afflicted with untimely mourning, when he
hath made an image of his child soon taken away, now honoured him as a god, which was then
a dead man; and delivered to those that were under him ceremonies and sacrifices."

Mrs. Stevenson, in a Zuni tale of motherly affection, relates how, in crossing a river in the
olden time, the children clinging to their mothers were transformed into such ugly and mischievous
shapes that the latter let many of them fall into the river. Some held their children close,
and on the other side these were restored to their natural forms. Those who had lost their
children grieved and would not be comforted; so two twin-brothers--sons of the sun, they are
called--went beneath the waters of a lake to the dwelling of the children, who asked them to
tell how it fared with their mothers. Their visitors told them of the grief and sorrow of the
parents, whereupon the children said: "Tell our mothers we are not dead, but live and sing
in this beautiful place, which is the home for them when they sleep. They will wake here and
be always happy. And we are here to intercede with the sun, our father, that he may give to
our people rain and the fruits of the earth, and all that is good for them." Since that time
these children have been "worshipped as ancestral gods, bearing the name of kok-ko" (358. 541).
This reminds us strikingly of the great Redeemer, of whom it was said that he is "an Advocate
for us with the Father," and who himself declared: "In my Father's house are many mansions;
if it were not so I would have told you; for I go to prepare a place for you."

In not a few mythologies we meet with the infant god in the arms of its mother or of some other
woman. Of the goddess of pity in the Celestial Empire we read: "The Chinese Lady of Mercy in
her statues is invariably depicted as young, symmetrical, and beautiful. Sometimes she stands
or sits alone. Sometimes she holds an infant god in her lap. Sometimes she holds one, while
a second plays about her knee. Another favourite picture and statue represents her standing
on the head of a great serpent, with a halo about her face and brows, and spirits encircling
her. In the sixth, she stands upon a crescent, awaiting a bird approaching her from the skies.
In a seventh, she stands smiling at a beautiful child on the back of a water-buffalo. In an
eighth, she is weeping for the sins of either humanity or the female portion of it. She is
the patron saint of all her sex, and intercedes for them at the great throne of Heaven. She
is a very old divinity. The Chinese themselves claim that she was worshipped six thousand years
ago, and that she was the first deity made known to mankind. The brave Jesuit missionaries
found her there, and it matters not her age; she is a credit to herself and her sex, and aids
in cheering the sorrowful and sombre lives of millions in the far East." We also find "the
saintly infant Zen-zai, so often met with in the arms of female representations of the androgynous
Kwanon."

Mr. C. N. Scott, in his essay on the "Child-God in Art" (344), is hesitant to give to many
mythologies any real child-worship or artistic concept of the child as god. Not even Rama and
Krishna, or the Greek Eros, who had a sanctuary at Thespiae in Boeotia, are beautiful, sweet,
naive child-pictures; much less even is Hercules, the infant, strangling the serpents, or Mercury
running off with the oxen of Admetus, or bacchic Dionysus. In Egypt, in the eleventh, or twelfth
dynasty, we do find a family of gods, the triad, father (Amun), mother (Maut), child (Khuns).
Mr. Scott follows Ruskin in declaring that classic Greek art gives no real child-concept; nor
does Gothic art up to the thirteenth century, when the influence of Christianity made itself
felt, that influence which made art lavish its genius upon the Madonna and the Santo Bambino--the
Virgin and the Christ-Child.

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE CHRIST-CHILD.

The holy thing that is to be born shall be called the Son of God.--Luke i. 35. There is born
to you this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is anointed Lord.--Luke ii. 11.

  Great little One! whose all-embracing birth
  Lifts Earth to Heaven, stoops Heaven to Earth.--Richard Crashaw.

  Our Babe, to show his Godhead true,
  Can in his swaddling hands control the damned crew.--Milton.

  The heart of Nature feels the touch of Love;
  And Angels sing:
  "The Child is King!
  See in his heart the life we live above."--E. P. Gould.

During the nineteen centuries that have elapsed since Jesus of Nazareth was born, art and music,
eloquence and song, have expended their best talents in preserving forever to us some memories
of the life and deeds of Him whose religion of love is winning the world. The treasures of
intellectual genius have been lavished in the interpretation and promulgation of the faith
that bears his name. At his shrine have worshipped the great and good of every land, and his
name has penetrated to the uttermost ends of the earth.

But in the brief record of his history that has come down to us, we read: "The common people
heard him gladly"; and to these, his simple life, with its noble consecration and unselfish
aims, appealed immeasurably more even than to the greatest and wisest of men. This is evident
from a glance into the lore that has grown up among the folk regarding the birth, life, and
death of the Christ. Those legends and beliefs alone concern us here which cluster round his
childhood,--the tribute of the lowly and the unlearned to the great world-child, who was to
usher in the Age of Gold, to him whom they deemed Son of God and Son of Man, divinely human,
humanly divine.

Nature and the Christ-Birth.

The old heathen mythologies and the lore of the ruder races of our own day abound in tales
of the strange and wonderful events that happened during the birth, passion, and death of their
heroes and divinities. Europe, Africa, Asia, America, and the Isles of the Sea, bring us a
vast store of folk-thought telling of the sympathy of Mother Nature with her children; how
she mourned when they were sad or afflicted, rejoiced when they were fortunate and happy. And
so has it been, in later ages and among more civilized peoples, with the great good who have
made their influence felt in the world,--the poets, musicians, artists, seers, geniuses of
every kind, who learned to read some of the secrets of the universe and declared them unto
men. They were a part of Nature herself, and she heralded their coming graciously and wept
over them when they died. This deep feeling of kinship with all Nature pervades the writings
of many of our greatest poets, who "live not in themselves," but are become "a portion of that
around them."

And with a holier fervour, even, are all things animate and inanimate said to feel the birth
of a great poet, a hero, a genius, a prophet; all Nature thrills with joy at his advent and
makes known her satisfaction with the good that has fallen to the lot of earth. With such men,
as Goethe said, Nature is in eternal league, watching, waiting for their coming.

How Nature must have rejoiced on that auspicious day, nineteen centuries ago, when the Messiah,
long looked for, long expected, came! The sacred historians tell us that the carol of angels
heralded his birth and the bright star in the East led the wise men to the modest manger where
he lay.

Shakespeare, in Hamlet,--a play in which so many items of folk-lore are to be found,--makes
Marcellus say:--

 "It faded on the crowing of the cock.

This belief in the holy and gracious season of the birth of Christ,--a return to the old ideas
of the Golden Age and the kinship of all Nature,--finds briefest expression in the Montenegrin
saying of Christmas Eve: "To-night, Earth is blended with Paradise." According to Bosnian legend,
at the birth of Christ: "The sun in the East bowed down, the stars stood still, the mountains
and the forests shook and touched the earth with their summits, and the green pine tree bent;
heaven and earth were bowed." And when Simeon took the Holy Child from the mother's arms:--

"The sun leaped in the heavens and the stars around it danced. A peace came over mountain and
forest. Even the rotten stump stood straight and healthy on the green mountain-side. The grass
was beflowered with opening blossoms, and incense sweet as myrrh pervaded upland and forest,
and birds sang on the mountain-top, and all gave thanks to the great God" (Macmil-lan's Mag.,
Vol. XLIII, p. 362).

Relics of the same thoughts crop out from a thousand Christmas songs and carols in every country
of Europe, and in myriads of folk-songs and sayings in every language of the Continent.

And in those southern lands, where, even more than with us, religion and love are inseparable,
the environment of the Christ-birth is transferred to the beloved of the human heart, and,
as the Tuscans sing in their stornelli (415. 104):--

 "Quando nascesti tu, nacque un bel flore;
  La luna si fermo di camminare,
  Le stelle si cambiaron di colore,"

in Mrs. Busk's translation:--

 "Thy birth, Love, was the birth of a fair flower;
  The moon her course arrested at that hour,
  The stars were then arrayed in a new colour,"

so, in other lands, has the similitude of the Golden Age of Love and the Golden Time of Christmas
been elaborated and adorned by all the genius of the nameless folk-poets of centuries past.

Folk-Lore of Christmas Tide.

Scottish folk-lore has it that Christ was born "at the hour of midnight on Christmas Eve,"
and that the miracle of turning water into wine was performed by Him at the same hour (246.
160). There is a belief current in some parts of Germany that "between eleven and twelve the
night before Christmas water turns to wine"; in other districts, as at Bielefeld, it is on
Christmas night that this change is thought to take place (462. IV. 1779).

This hour is also auspicious for many actions, and in some sections of Germany it was thought
that if one would go to the cross-roads between eleven and twelve on Christmas Day, and listen,
he "would hear what most concerns him in the coming year." Another belief is that "if one walks
into the winter-corn on Holy Christmas Eve, he will hear all that will happen in the village
that year."

Christmas Eve or Christmas is the time when the oracles of the folk are in the best working-order,
especially the many processes by which maidens are wont to discover the colour of their lover's
hair, the beauty of his face and form, his trade and occupation,--whether they shall marry
or not, and the like. The same season is most auspicious for certain ceremonies and practices
(transferred to it from the heathen antiquity) of the peasantry of Europe in relation to agriculture
and allied industries. Among those noted by Grimm are the following:--

On Christmas Eve thrash the garden with a flail, with only your shirt on, and the grass will
grow well next year.

Tie wet strawbands around the orchard trees on Christmas Eve and it will make them fruitful.

On Christmas Eve put a stone on every tree, and they will bear the more (462. IV. 1790-1825).

Beat the trees on Christmas night, and they will bear more fruit (448. 337).

In Herefordshire, Devonshire, and Cornwall, in England, the farmers and peasantry "salute the
apple-trees on Christmas Eve," and in Sussex they used to "worsle," i.e. "wassail," the apple-trees
and chant verses to them in somewhat of the primitive fashion (448. 219).

Some other curious items of Christmas folk-lore are the following, current chiefly in Germany
(462. IV. 1779-1824):--

If after a Christmas dinner you shake out the table-cloth over the bare ground under the open
sky, crumb-wort will grow on the spot.

If on Christmas Day, or Christmas Eve, you hang a wash-clout on a hedge, and then groom the
horses with it, they will grow fat.

As often as the cock crows on Christmas Eve, the quarter of corn will be as dear.

If a dog howls the night before Christmas, it will go mad within the year.

If the light is let go out on Christmas Eve, some one in the house will die.

When lights are brought in on Christmas Eve, if any one's shadow has no head, he will die within
a year; if half a head, in the second half-year.

If a hoop comes off a cask on Christmas Eve, some one in the house will die that year.

If on Christmas Eve you make a little heap of salt on the table, and it melts over night, you
will die the next year; if, in the morning, it remain undiminished, you will live.

If you wear something sewed with thread spun on Christmas Eve, no vermin will stick to you.

If a shirt be spun, woven, and sewed by a pure, chaste maiden on Christmas Day, it will be
proof against lead or steel.

If you are born at sermon-time on Christmas morning, you can see spirits.

If you burn elder on Christmas Eve, you will have revealed to you all the witches and sorcerers
of the neighbourhood (448. 319).

If you steal hay the night before Christmas, and give the cattle some, they thrive, and you
are not caught in any future thefts.

If you steal anything at Christmas without being caught, you can steal safely for a year.

If you eat no beans on Christmas Eve, you will become an ass.

If you eat a raw egg, fasting, on Christmas morning, you can carry heavy weights.

The crumbs saved up on three Christmas Eves are good to give as physic to one who is disappointed
(462. IV. 1788-1801).

It is unlucky to carry anything forth from the house on Christmas morning until something has
been brought in.

It is unlucky to give a neighbour a live coal to kindle a fire with on Christmas morning.

If the fire burns brightly on Christmas morning, it betokens prosperity during the year; if
it smoulders, adversity (246. 160).

These, and many other practices, ceremonies, beliefs, and superstitions, which may be read
in Grimm (462), Gregor (246), Henderson (469), De Gubernatis (427, 428), Ortwein (3l5), Tilte
(370), and others who have written of Christmas, show the importance attached in the folk-mind
to the time of the birth of Christ, and how around it as a centre have fixed themselves hundreds
of the rites and solemnities of passing heathendom, with its recognition of the kinship of
all nature, out of which grew astrology, magic, and other pseudo-sciences.

Flowers of the Christ-Child.

Many flowers are believed to have first sprung into being or to have first burst into blossom
at the moment when Christ was born, or very near that auspicious hour.

The Sicilian children, so Folkard tells us, put pennyroyal in their cots on Christmas Eve,
"under the belief that at the exact hour and minute when the infant Jesus was born this plant
puts forth its blossom." Another belief is that the blossoming occurs again on Midsummer Night
(448. 492).

In the East the Rose of Jericho is looked upon with favour by women with child, for "there
is a cherished legend that it first blossomed at our Saviour's birth, closed at the Crucifixion,
and opened again at Easter, whence its name of Resurrection Flower" (448. 528).

Gerarde, the old herbalist, tells us that the black hellebore is called "Christ's Herb," or
"Christmas Herb," because it "flowreth about the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ" (448. 281).

Certain varieties of the hawthorn also were thought to blossom on Christmas Day. The celebrated
Abbey of Glastonbury in England possessed such a thorn-tree, said to have sprung from the staff
of Joseph of Arimathea, when he stuck it into the ground, in that part of England, which he
is represented as having converted. The "Glastonbury Thorn" was long believed to be a convincing
witness to the truth of the Gospel by blossoming without fail every Christmas Day (448. 352, 353).

Many plants, trees, and flowers owe their peculiarities to their connection with the birth
or the childhood of Christ. The Ornithogalum umbellatum is called the "Star of Bethlehem,"
according to Folkard, because "its white stellate flowers resemble the pictures of the star
that indicated the birth of the Saviour of mankind" (448. 553). The Galium verum, "Our Lady's
Bedstraw," receives its name from the belief that the manger in which the infant Jesus lay
was filled with this plant (448. 249).

The flight of the Holy Family into Egypt has attracted to it as a centre a large group of legends
belonging to this category, many of which are to be found in Folkard and Busk.

Of a certain tree, with leaves like the sensitive plant, in Arabia, we read that this peculiarity
arose from the fact that when near the city of Heliopolis "Joseph led the dromedary that bore
the blessed Mother and her Divine Son, under a neighbouring tree, and as he did so, the green
branches bent over the group, as if paying homage to their Master."

Near Mataria there was said to be a sycamore-tree, called "the Tree of Jesus and Mary," which
gave shelter at nightfall to the Holy Family, and to this fact the Mohammedans are reported
to attribute the great longevity and verdure of the sycamore (448. 558).

A widespread tradition makes the "Rose of Jericho," called also "St. Mary's Rose," spring up
on every spot where the Holy Family rested on their way to Egypt. The juniper owes the extraordinary
powers with which it is credited in the popular mind to the fact that it once saved the life
of the Virgin and the infant Christ. The same kind offices have been attributed to the hazel-tree,
the fig, the rosemary, the date-palm, etc. Among the many legends accounting for the peculiarity
of the aspen there is one, preserved in Germany, which attributes it to the action of this
tree when the Holy Family entered the dense forest in which it stood (448. 230):--

"As they entered this wilderness, all the trees bowed themselves down in reverence to the infant
God; only the Aspen, in her exceeding pride and arrogance, refused to acknowledge Him, and
stood upright." In consequence of this "the Holy Child pronounced a curse against her; ...
and, at the sound of His words, the Aspen began to tremble through all her leaves, and has
not ceased to tremble to this day." According to a Sicilian legend, "the form of a hand is
to be seen in the interior of the fruit of the pine," representing "the hand of Jesus blessing
the tree which had saved Him during the flight into Egypt by screening Him and His mother from
Herod's soldiers" (448. 496).

We have from Rome the following tradition (415. 173):--

"One day the Madonna was carrying the Bambino through a lupine-field, and the stalks of the
lupines rustled so, that she thought it was a robber coming to kill the Santo Bambino. She
turned, and sent a malediction over the lupine-field, and immediately the lupines all withered
away, and fell flat and dry on the ground, so that she could see there was no one hidden there.
When she saw there was no one hidden there, she sent a blessing over the lupine-field, and
the lupines all stood straight up again, fair and flourishing, and with ten-fold greater produce
than they had at first." In a Bolognese legend the lupines are cursed by the Virgin, because,
"by the clatter and noise they made, certain plants of this species drew the attentions of
Herod's minions to the spot where the tired and exhausted travellers had made a brief halt"
(448. 473). Another tradition, found over almost all Italy, says that when the Holy Family
were fleeing from the soldiers of King Herod:--

"The brooms and the chick-peas began to rustle and crackle, and by this noise betrayed the
fugitives. The flax bristled up. Happily for her, Mary was near a juniper; the hospitable tree
opened its branches as arms and enclosed the Virgin and Child within their folds, affording
them a secure hiding-place. Then the Virgin uttered a malediction against the brooms and the
chick-peas, and ever since that day they have always rustled and crackled." The story goes
on to tell us that the Virgin "pardoned the flax its weakness, and gave the juniper her blessing,"
which accounts for the use of the latter for Christmas decorations, --like the holly in England
and France (448. 395).

Birds of the Christ-Child.

Several birds are associated with the infant Christ in the folk-lore of Europe and the East.
In Normandy, the wren is called Poulette de Dieu, Oiseau de Dieu, "God's Chicken," "God's Bird,"--corresponding
to the old Scotch "Our Lady's Hen,"--because, according to legend, "she was present at the
birth of the Infant Saviour, made her nest in his cradle, and brought moss and feathers to
form a coverlet for the Holy Child" (539. 35).

A Tyrolian folk-tale informs us that in days of yore the ravens were "beautiful birds with
plumage white as snow, which they kept clean by constant washing in a certain stream." It happened,
once upon a time, that "the Holy Child, desiring to drink, came to this stream, but the ravens
prevented him by splashing about and befouling the water. Whereupon he said: 'Ungrateful birds!
Proud you may be of your beauty, but your feathers, now so snowy white, shall become black
and remain so till the judgment day!'" In consequence of their uncharitable action have the
ravens continued black ever since (539. 92).

In his childhood Christ is often represented as playing with the other little Jewish children.
One Sabbath day He and His playmates amused themselves by making birds out of clay, and after
the children had been playing a while, a Sadducee chanced to pass that way. The story goes
on to tell that "He was very old and very zealous, and he rebuked the children for spending
their Sabbath in so profane an employment. And he let it not rest at chiding alone, but went
to the clay birds and broke them all, to the great grief of the children. Now, when Christ
saw this, He waved His hands over all the birds He had fashioned, and they became forthwith
alive, and soared up into the heavens" (539. 181). From Swainson we learn that in the Icelandic
version of the legend the birds are thought to have been the golden plover "whose note 'deerin'
sounds like to the Iceland word 'dyrdhin,' namely 'glory,' for these birds sing praise to their
Lord, for in that He mercifully saved them from the merciless hand of the Sadducee."

A Danish legend, cited by Swainson, accounts for the peculiar cry of the lapwing, which sounds
like "Klyf ved! klyf ved!" i.e. "Cleave wood! cleave wood!" as follows (539. 185):--"When our
Lord was a wee bairn, He took a walk out One day, and came to an old crone who was busy baking.
She desired Him to go and split her a little wood for the oven, and she would give Him a new
cake for His trouble. He did as He was bid, and the old woman went on with her occupation,
sundering a very small portion of the dough for the promised recompense. But when the batch
was drawn, this cake was equally large with the rest. So she took a new morsel of the dough
still less than before, and made and baked another cake, but with the like result. Hereupon
she broke out with 'That's a vast overmuckle cake for the likes o' you; thee's get thy cake
anither time.' When our Lord saw her evil disposition, His wrath was stirred, and He said to
the woman: 'I split your wood as you asked me, and you would not so much as give me the little
cake you promised me. Now you shall go and cleave wood, and that, too, as long as the world
endures!' With that he changed her into a weep (vipa) [lapwing]."

Among the many legends of Isa, as Jesus is called by the Moslems, current among the Mohammedan
peoples is a variant of the story of the clay-birds, as follows: "When Isa was seven years
old, he and his companions made images in clay of birds and beasts, and Isa, to show his superiority,
caused his images to fly and walk at his command." Clouston informs us that this story is also
found in the Gospel of the Pseudo-Matthew, and in that of the Infancy (422. II. 408).

In Champagne, France, legend makes the cuckoo to have issued from a Christmas log (462. I.
113), and in a Latin poem of the Middle Ages we are told that "the crossbill hatches its eggs
at Christmas and the young birds fly in full plumage at Easter" (539. 67).

Animals.

At Christmas certain animals become more human, or express their joy at the birth of Christ
in unmistakable fashion.

There was an old Scottish belief that "at the exact hour of the Saviour's birth bees in their
hive emitted a buzzing sound" (246. 147). According to a Breton folk-tale the ox and the ass
can converse for a single hour, "between eleven and twelve on Christmas night." At the same
hour, in German folk-lore, all cattle stand up; another version, however, makes them devoutly
kneel (462. IV. 1481).

Among the animals which folk-thought has brought into connection with the Christ-Child is the
horse. A Russian legend tells us that the flesh of the horse is deemed unclean because "when
the infant Saviour was hidden in the manger, the horse kept eating the hay under which the
babe was concealed, whereas the ox not only would not touch it, but brought back hay on its
horns to replace what the horse had eaten" (520. 334). From a Spanish-American miracle-play,
we learn that the oxen and asses around the manger kept the little babe warm with their breath.
In Ireland the following folk-beliefs obtain regarding the ass and the cow:--

"Joseph and Mary fled into Egypt with the infant Jesus, on an ass. Since that date the ass
has had a cross on its back. This same ass returned to Nazareth seven years later with them
on its back, travelling in the night, since which time it has been the wisest of all animals;
it was made sure-footed for Christ to ride on his triumphal entry into Jerusalem, and it remains
the most sure-footed of all beasts. The ass and cow are looked upon as sacred, because these
animals breathed upon the infant Jesus in the manger and kept the child warm. Old women sprinkle
holy water on these animals to drive away disease" (480 (1893) 264). In I Henry IV. (Act II.
Sc. 4) Falstaff says: "The lion will not touch the true Prince," and the divinity which hedged
about the princes of human blood was ever present with the son of Joseph and Mary, whose divinity
sprang from a purer, nobler fount than that of weak humanity.

The Holy Family.

We have several word-pictures of the Holy Family from the mouth of the folk. Among the hymns
sung by the Confraternities of the Virgin in Seville, is one in which occurs the following
figure (Catholic World, XXIV. 19):--

 "Es Maria la nave de gracia,
  San Jose la vela, el Nino el timon;
  Y los remos son las buenas almas
  Que van al Rosario con gran devocion."
  i.e.

  ["Mary is the ship of grace,
  St. Joseph is the sail,
  The Child (Jesus) is the helm,
  And the oars are the pious souls who devoutly pray."]

One of the little Italian songs called razzi neddu, recorded by Mrs. Busk, is even briefer:--

 "Maruzza lavava,
  Giuseppe stinnia,
  Gesu si stricava
  Ca minna vulia."

  ["Sweet Mary was washing,
  Joseph was hanging out the clothes to dry,
  Jesus was stretching Himself on the ground,
  For so His mother willed."]

A popular Spanish lullaby recorded by De Gubernatis in his great study of birth customs and
usages, runs as follows in translation (500. 310):--

  "The Baby Child of Mary,
  Now cradle He has none;
  His father is a carpenter,
  And he shall make Him one.

  "The Lady, good St. Anna,
  The Lord St. Joachim,
  They rock the Baby's cradle,
  That sleep may come to Him.

  "Then sleep, thou too, my baby,
  My little heart so dear;
  The Virgin is beside thee,
  The Son of God is near."

Among the many versions and variants of the familiar child's prayer, "Now I lay me down to
sleep," cited by the Countess Martinengo-Cesaresco (500. 202-213), is to be included the following,
found among the Greeks of the Terra d'Otranto, in Italy:--

"I lay me down to sleep in my little bed; I lay me down to sleep with my Mamma Mary; the Mamma
Mary goes hence and leaves me Christ to keep me company."

Some of the most naive legends are those which deal with the Child and His mother in the early
years of life. "Our Lady's Thistle" (Carduus Marianus) receives its name "because its green
leaves have been spotted white ever since the milk of the Virgin fell upon it, when she was
nursing Jesus, and endowed it with miraculous virtues." A German tradition tells the same story
of the Polypodium vulgare (Marienmilch), based upon an older legend of the goddess Freia, many
of whose attributes, with the lapse of heathendom, passed over to the central female figure
of Christianity (448. 499). A similar origin of the white lily from the milk of Juno is given
in Greek mythology (462. IV. 1671).

In Devonshire, the custom of burning a faggot of ash at Christmas, is traced back to the fact
that "the Divine Infant at Bethlehem was first washed and dressed by a fire of ash-wood" (448.
235).

In Spain the rosemary is believed to blossom on the day of Christ's passion, and the legend
accounting for this tells us that "the Virgin Mary spread on a shrub of rosemary the underlinen
and little frocks of the infant Jesus." The peasantry believe that rosemary "brings happiness
on those families who employ it in perfuming the house on Christmas night" (448. 526).

Joseph and Mary.

The suspicions entertained by Joseph (as indicated in the narrative of St. Matthew i. 19),
when the birth of the child of Mary was first announced, have found deep expression in folk-thought.
According to one Oriental legend, the infant Christ himself spoke, declaring that "God had
created Him by His word, and chosen Him to be His servant and prophet" (547. 254).

Another tradition, cited by Folkard, states that (448. 279): "Before the birth of our Saviour,
the Virgin Mary longed extremely to taste of some tempting cherries which hung upon a tree
high above her head; so she requested Joseph to pluck them. Joseph, however, not caring to
take the trouble, refused to gather the cherries, saying sullenly, 'Let the father of thy child
present thee with the cherries if he will!' No sooner had these words escaped his lips, than,
as if in reproof, the branch of the cherry-tree bowed spontaneously to the Virgin's hand, and
she gathered its fruit and ate it. Hence the cherry is dedicated to the Virgin Mary."

In Finland the white side of the flounder "is said to have been caused by the Virgin Mary's
laying her hand upon it," and an Eastern legend states that "the Angel Gabriel restored a sole
to life, to assure the Virgin Mary of the truth of the miraculous conception." Ralston cites
from the Kherson Government in Russia the following:--

"At the time of the Angelic Salutation, the Blessed Virgin told the Archangel Gabriel that
she would give credit to his words, if a fish, one side of which had already been eaten, were
to come to life again. That moment the fish came to life, and was put back into the water."
This legend, accounting for the shape of the sole, finds perhaps its origin in "the old Lithuanian
tradition that the Queen of the Baltic Sea once ate half of it and threw the other half into
the sea again"--another example of the transference of older stories to the cycle of the Virgin
Mary (520. 334).

De Gubernatis records from Andalusia, in Spain, a legend which tells how the Holy Family, journeying
one day, came to an orange-tree guarded by an eagle. The Virgin "begged of it one of the oranges
for the Holy Child. The eagle miraculously fell asleep, and the Virgin thereupon plucked not
one but three oranges, one of which she gave to the infant Jesus, another to Joseph, and the
third she kept for herself. Then, and not till then, the eagle that guarded the orange-tree
awoke" (448. 478).

A beautiful pendant to this Spanish tale is found in the Roumanian story cited by Folkard:--

"The infant Jesus, in the arms of the Blessed Virgin, becomes restless, will not go to sleep,
and begins to cry. The Virgin, to calm the Holy Child, gives Him two apples. The infant throws
one upwards and it becomes the Moon; He then throws the second, and it becomes the Sun. After
this exploit, the Virgin Mary addresses Him and foretells that He will become the Lord of Heaven"
(448.222).

In his recent book on Childhood in Literature and Art, Mr. Scudder treats of the Christ-Child
and the Holy Family in mediaeval and early Christian art and literature (350. 57-65, 83-99),
calling special attention to a series of twelve prints executed in the Netherlands, known as
The Infancy of our Lord God and Saviour, Jesus Christ, in which we have "a reproduction of
the childhood of the Saviour in the terms of a homely Netherland family life, the naturalistic
treatment diversified by the use of angelic machinery" (350.91).

Moslem Lore of the Christ.

In the Toldoth Jesu, which Clouston terms "a scurrilous Jewish 'Life of Christ,'"--the Hebrew
text with a Latin translation and explanatory notes, appeared at Leyden in 1705, under the
title Historia Jeschuce Nazareni,--the many wonders admitted to have been performed by Christ
are ascribed to his "having abstracted from the Temple the Ineffable Name and concealed it
in his thigh,"--an idea thought to be of Indian origin. Clouston goes so far as to say: "Legends
of the miracles of Isa, son of Maryam, found in the works of Muslim writers, seem to have been
derived from the Kuran, and also from early Christian, or rather quasi-Christian traditions,
such as those in the apocryphal gospels, which are now for the most part traceable to Buddhist
sources." One belief of the Mohammedans was that "the breath of the Messiah had the virtue
of restoring the dead to life" (422. II. 395, 408, 409).

In the first volume of the Orientalist, Muhammed Casim Siddi Lebbe gives an account of the
views of Arabian writers regarding the Virgin Mary and Jesus. Weil has also devoted a section
of his work on Mussulman legends to "John, Mary, and Christ." When the child Jesus was born,
we are told, the withered trunk of a date tree against which the Virgin leaned, "blossomed,
and its withered branches were covered with fresh dates," while "a fountain of fresh water
gushed forth from the earth at her feet" (547. 249-264).

The Christ-Child To-day.

Folk-stories and churchly legends tell us that the Christ-Child still walks the earth, and
appears unto the saints and sinners of this world.

Folkard reports a tradition from the Havel country in North Germany:--

"One Christmas Eve a peasant felt a great desire to eat cabbage and, having none himself, he
slipped into a neighbour's garden to cut some. Just as he had filled his basket, the Christ-Child
rode past on his white horse, and said: 'Because thou hast stolen on the holy night, thou shalt
immediately sit in the moon with thy basket of cabbage.'" And so, we are told, "the culprit
was immediately wafted up to the moon," and there he can still be seen as "the man in the moon"
(448. 265).

Brewer gives many of the churchly legends in which the Christ-Child appears to men and women
upon earth, either in the arms of the Virgin, as he came to St. Agnes of Monte Pulciano and
to Jeanne Marie de Maille, or as a glorious child, in which form he appeared alone to St. Alexander
and Quirinus the tribune, in the reign of Hadrian; to St. Andrew Corsini, to call him to the
bishopric of Fiesole; to St. Anthony of Padua, many times; to St. Cuthbert, to rebuke him (a
child of eight years) for wasting his time in play; to St. Emiliana of Florence, with the same
purpose; to St. Oxanna, and to St. Veronica of Milan (191. 59, 60). Among the rude peasantry
of Catholic Europe belief in the visitations of the Christ-Child lingers, especially at the
season of His birth. With them, as Milton thought,--"Millions of spiritual creatures walk the
earth." Yet not unseen, but seen often of the good and wise, the simple and innocent, and greatest
of these visitants of earth is the Child Jesus, ever occupied about His Father's business.

CHAPTER XXVII.

PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT PARENTS, FATHER AND MOTHER.

1. Be a father to virtue, but a father-in-law to vice.

2. Bread is our father, but kasha [porridge] is our mother. --Russian.

3. Call not that man wretched, who, whatever ills he suffers, has a child he loves.--Southey.

4. Children suck the mother when they are young, and the father when they are old.

5. Children see in their parents the past, they again in their children the future; and if
we find more love in parents for their children than in children for their parents, this is
sad and natural. Who does not fondle his hopes more than his recollections?--Eotvos.

6. Choose a good mother's daughter, though her father were the devil.--Gaelic.

7. Die Menschheit geben uns Vater und Mutter, die Menschlichkeit aber gibt uns nur die Erziehung.
[Human nature we owe to father and mother, but humanity to education alone.]--Weber.

8. Die Mutter geben uns von Geiste Warme, und die Vater Licht. [Our mothers give us warmth
of spirit; our fathers, light.]--Jean Paul.

9. Die Mutter sagt es, der Vater glaubt es, ein Narr zweifelt daran. [The mother says it, the
father believes it, the fool doubts it.]--Pistorius.

10. Dos est magna parentum Virtus. [The virtue of parents is a great dowry.]--Horace.

11. En olle kan beter sofen kinner erneren, as sofen kinner en olle. [A parent can more easily
maintain seven children than seven children one parent.]--Low German.

12. Fader og Moder ere gode, end er Gud bedre. [Father and mother are kind, but God is better.]--Danish.

13. He knows not what love is that hath no children.

14. He that loveth father and mother more than me is not worthy of me.--Jesus.

15. If poverty is the mother of crimes, want of sense is the father of them.--La Bruyere.

16. Keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother.--Bible.

17. La buena vida padre y madre olvida. [Prosperity forgets father and mother.]--Spanish.

18. Laus magna natis obsequi parentibus. [Great praise comes to children for having complied
with the wishes of their parents.] --Phoedrus.

19.

20. One mother is more venerable than a thousand fathers. --Laws of Manu.

21. Parents are the enemies of their children, if they refuse them education.--Eastern Proverb.

22. Parents' blessings can neither be drowned in water, nor consumed in fire.

23. Parents we can have but once.--Dr. Johnson.

24. Parents say: "Our boy is growing up." They forget his life is shortening.--Afghan.

25. Respect for one's parents is the highest duty of civil life. --Chinese.

26. The bazaar knows neither father nor mother.--Turkish.

27. The crow says: "O my son, whiter than muslin."--Afghan.

28.

29. The house of the childless is empty; and so is the heart of him that hath no wife.--Hitopadesa.

30. The joys of parents are secret, and so are their griefs and fears.--Bacon.

31. These are my jewels.--Cornelia (mother of the Gracchi).

32. They who have lost an infant are never, as it were, without an infant child.--Leigh Hunt.

33. To a father, when his child dies, the future dies; to a child, when his parents die, the
past dies.--Auerbach.

34.

35. Unworthy offspring brag most of their worthy descent. --Danish.

36.
  [My father's stature I possess
  And life's more solemn glory;
  My mother's fund of cheerfulness,
  Her love for song and story.]--Goethe.

37. Was der Mutter an's Herz geht, das geht dem Vater nur an die Kniee. [What goes to the mother's
heart goes only to the father's knees.]--German.

38. Wer nicht Kinder hat, der weiss nicht, warum er lebt. [Who has not children knows not why
he lives.]--German.

39. Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness.--Bible.

40.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT THE CHILD, MANKIND, GENIUS, ETC.

1. Argument is like an arrow from a cross-bow, which has great force, though shot by a child.--Bacon.

2.

3. Children always turn toward the light.--Hare.

4. Der grosste Mensch bleibt stets ein Menschenkind. [The greatest man always remains a son
of man.]--Goethe.

5. Dieu aide a trois sortes de personnes,--aux fous, aux enfants, et aux ivrognes. [God protects
three sorts of people,--fools, children, and drunkards.]--French.

6.

7. Every child is, to a certain extent, a genius, and every genius is, to a certain extent,
a child.--Schopenhauer.

8. Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye cannot enter into the kingdom
of heaven.--Jesus.

9.
  Fede ed innocenzia son reperte
  Solo ne' pargoletti.
  [Faith and innocence we find
  Only in the children's mind.]
  --Dante.

10. Genius is the power of carrying the feelings of childhood into the powers of manhood.--Coleridge.

11. Genius must be born, and never can be taught.--Dryden.

12. Genius should be the child of genius, and every child should be inspired.--Emerson.

13. God is kind to fou [i.e. drunken] folk and bairns.--Scotch.

14. God watches over little children and drunkards.--Russian.

15. Heaven lies about us in our infancy.--Wordsworth.

16. I love God and little children.--Jean Paul.

17. If children grew up according to early indications, we should have nothing but geniuses.--Goethe.

18. Infancy presents body and spirit in unity; the body is all animated.--Coleridge.

19. Ingenio non atate adipiscitur sapientia. [Wisdom comes by nature, not by age.]--Latin.

20. Kinder und Narren sprechen die Wahrheit. [Children and fools tell the truth.]--German.

21. Kloke kinner ward nit old. [Wise children don't live long.] --Frisian.

22. L'homme est toujours l'enfant, et l'enfant toujours l'homme. [The man is always the child,
and the child is always the man.] --French.

23. Mankind at large always resembles frivolous children; they are impatient of thought, and
wish to be amused.--Emerson.

24.

25. Men are unwiser than children; they do not know the hand that feeds them.--Carlyle.

26. Men deal with life as children with their play, Who first misuse, then cast their toys
away.--Cowper.

27. Men fear death as children to go into the dark.--Bacon.

28. Nature is full of freaks, and now puts an old head on young shoulders, and then a young
heart beating under fourscore winters.--Emerson.

29. Nothing is so intelligible to the child, nothing seems so natural to him as the marvellous
or the supernatural.--Zacharia.

30. Odi puerulos pracoci ingenio. [I hate boys of precocious genius.]--Cicero.

31. on oi theoi philousin apothnaeskei neos. [He whom the gods love dies young.]--Menander.

32. Poeta nascitur, non fit. [A poet is born, not made.]--Latin.

33.
  Prophete rechts, Prophete links,
  Das Weltkind in der Mitten.
  [Prophets to right of him, prophets to left of him,
  The world-child in the middle.]--Goethe.

34. So wise, so young, they say, do ne'er live long. --Shakespeare (Rich. III. iii. 1).

35. Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom
of heaven.--Jesus.

36. The best architecture is the expression of the mind of man-hood by the hands of childhood.--Ruskin.

37. The birth of a child is the imprisonment of a soul.--Simons.

38. The boy's story is the best that is ever told.--Dickens.

39. The child is father of the man.--Wordsworth.

40. The childhood shows the man As morning shows the day.--Milton.

41. The wisest doctor is gravelled by the inquisitiveness of a child.--Emerson.

42. These moving things, ca'ed wife and weans, Wad move the very heart o' stanes.--Burns.

43. They who have lost an infant are never, as it were, without an infant child.--Leigh Hunt.

44. To be young is to be as one of the immortals.--Hazlitt.

45. Wage du zu irren und zu traumen: Hoher Sinn liegt oft im kind'schen Spiel. [Dare thou to
err and dream; Oft deep sense a child's play holds.]--Schiller.

46. Wer darf das Kind beim rechten Namen nennen? [Who dare give the child its right name?]--Goethe.

47. Whilst we converse with what is above us, we do not grow old but grow young.--Emerson.

48. Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.--Jesus.

49. Ye are but children.--Egyptian Priest (to Solon).

CHAPTER XXIX.

PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT THE MOTHER AND CHILD.

1. A child may have too much of its mother's blessing.

2. A kiss from my mother made me a painter.--Benj. West.

3. Ama sinhesten, ezduenac, ain zuna. [Who does not follow his mother will follow his stepmother,
i.e. who will not hear must feel.]--Basque.

4. A mother curses not her son.--Sanskrit.

5. An ounce o' mother-wit is worth a pound o' clergy.--Scotch.

6. As if he had fallen out of his mother's mouth (i.e. so like his mother).--Low German.

7. Barmherzige Mutter ziehen grindige Tochter. [Compassionate mothers bring up scabby daughters.]--German.

8. Choose cloth by its edge, a wife by her mother.--Persian.

9. Das Kind, das seine Mutter verachtet, hat einen stinkenden Atem. [The child that despises
its mother has a fetid breath.]--German.

10. Das Kind fallt wieder in der Mutter Schooss. [The child falls back into its mother's bosom.]--German.

11. Das Kind folgt dem Busen. [The child follows the bosom.]--German.

12. Die Mutter eine Hexe, die Tochter auch eine Hexe. [Mother a witch, daughter also a witch.]--German.

13. Die Tochter ist wie die Mutter. [Like mother, like daughter.]--German.

14. Es meinet jede Frau, ihr Kind sei ein Pfau. [Every woman thinks her child a peacock.]--German.

15. Es ist kein' so bose Mutter, sie zohe gern ein frommes Kind. [There is no mother so bad
but that she will bring up a good child.]--German.

16. Fleissige Mutter hat faule Tochter. [A diligent mother has a lazy daughter.]--German.

17.

18. Happy is the boy whose mother is tired of talking nonsense to him before he is old enough
to know the sense of it.--Hare.

19. He deceives thee, who tells thee that he loves thee more than thy mother does.--Russian.

20. He has faut [i.e. need] o' a wife that marries mam's pet. --Scotch.

21. He that is born of a hen must scrape for a living.

22. I have always found that the road to a woman's heart lies through her child.--Haliburton.

23. I would desire for a friend the son who never resisted the tears of his mother.--Lacretelle.

24.

25. In a matter of life and death don't trust even your mother; she might mistake a black bean
[nay] for a white one [yea].--Alcibiades.

26. lst eine Mutter noch so arm, so giebt sie ihrem Kinde warm. [However poor a mother is,
she keeps her child warm.]--German.

27. It is not as thy mother says, but as thy neighbours say. --Hebrew.

28. Jedes Mutterkind ist schon. [Every mother's child is beautiful.]--German.

29. Keine Mutter tragt einen Bastart. [No mother bears a bastard.]--German.

30. La madre pitiosa fa la figluola tignosa. [A merciful mother makes a scabby daughter.]--Italian.

31. Like mother, like daughter.

32. Mai agucosa, filha preguicosa. [Diligent mother, idle daughter.]--Portuguese.

33. Mere piteuse fait sa fille rogneuse. [A merciful mother makes her daughter scabby.]-French.

34. Milk with water is still milk [i.e. though, your mother is bad, she is nevertheless your
mother].--Badaga.

35. Mothers' darlings are but milksop heroes.

36. Mothers' love is the cream of love.

37. Muttertreu wird taglich neu. [Mother's truth keeps constant youth.]--German.

38.
  Mysterious to all thought,
  A mother's prime of bliss,
  When to her eager lips is brought
  Her infant's thrilling kiss.--Keble.

39. Nature sent women into the world that they might be mothers and love children, to whom
sacrifices must ever be offered, and from whom none can be obtained.--Jean Paul.

40. No bones are broken by a mother's fist.--Russian.

41. No hay tal madre come la que pare. [There is no mother like her who bears.]--Spanish.

42.
  O l'amour d'une mere! amour quo nul n'oublie!
  Pain merveilleux, que Dieu partage et multiplie!
  Table toujours servie au paternel foyer!
  Chacun en a sa part, et tous l'ont tout entier.
  [O mother-love! love that none ever forgets!
  Wonderful bread, that God divides and multiplies!
  Table always spread beside the paternal hearth!
  Each one has his part of it, and each has it all!]
  --Victor Hugo.

43. One good mother is worth a hundred schoolmasters.

44. One scream of fear from a mother may resound through the whole life of her daughter.--Jean
Paul.

45.
  Seem I not as tender to him
  As any mother?
  Ay, but such a one
  As all day long hath rated at her child,
  And vext his day, but blesses him asleep.
  --Tennyson.

46. Sind die Kinder klein, so treten sie der Mutter auf den Schooss; sind die Kinder gross,
so treten sie der Mutter auf das Herz. [When the children are small they tread upon the mother's
breast; when they are large they tread upon the mother's heart.]--German.

47. So moder, so dogter. [Like mother, like daughter.]--Frisian.

48.
  Stabat Mater dolorosa
  Juxta crucem lacrymosa
  Quo pendebat Filius.

  [Sorrow-stricken stood the Mother
  Weeping by the cross
  On which hung her Son.]
  --Mediaeval Latin Hymn.

49. Tendresse maternelle toujours se renouvelle. [A mother's affection is forever new.]--French.

50. The child is often kissed for the mother's (nurse's) sake.

51. The elephant does not find his trunk heavy, nor the mother her babe.--Angolese (Africa).

52. The future destiny of the child is always the work of the mother.--Napoleon.

53. The good mother says not "Will you?" but gives.--Italian.

54. The mother's heart is always with her children.

55. The mother's breath is aye sweet.--Scotch.

56. The mother knows best if the child be like the father.

57. The mother makes the house or mars it.

58. The nurse's bread is better than the mother's cake. --Frisian.

59. The prayer of the mother fetches her child out of the bottom of the sea.--Russian.

60. The watchful mother tarries nigh, Though sleep has closed her infant's eye.--Keble.

61.

62. Though a mother be a wolf, she does not eat her cub's flesh.--Afghan.

63. Timidi mater non flet. [The coward's mother need not weep.]--Latin.

64. To a child in confinement its mother's knee is a binding-post. --Hitopadesa.

65. Unhappy is the man for whom his own mother has not made all mothers venerable.--Jean Paul.

66. Unless the child cries even the mother will not give it suck.--Telugu.

67. [Whoever has a suckling child, has a singing wife.]--German.

68. Wer dem Kinde die Nase wischt, kusst der Mutter den Backen. [Whoever wipes a child's nose
kisses the mother's cheek.]--German.

69. What a mother sees coils itself up, but does not come out [i.e. the faults of her child].-Angolese
(Africa).

70. You desire, O woman, to be loved ardently and forever until death; be the mothers of your
children.--Jean Paul.

71. Zu solchen Kindern gehort eine solche Mutter. [To such children belongs such a mother.]--German.

CHAPTER XXX.

PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT FATHER AND CHILD.

1. An dem Kind kennt man den Vater wohl. [The father is known from the child.]--German.

2. Bone does not let go flesh, nor father son.--Angolese.

3. Bose Kinder machen den Vater fromm. [Bad children make the father good.]--German.

4. Chi non ha figluoli non sa qualche cosa sia amore. [Who has not children knows not what
love is.]--Italian.

5. Child's pig, but father's bacon.

6. Ein Vater ernahrt ehei zehn Kinder, denn zehn Kinder einen Vater. [One father can better
nourish ten children, than ten children one father.]--German.

7. Fathers alone a father's heart can know.--Young.

8.Fathers first enter bonds to Nature's ends,
  And are her sureties ere they are a friend's.
  --George Herbert.

9.Fathers that wear rags
  Do make their children blind;
  But fathers that wear bags
  Do make their children kind.
  --Shakespeare (King Lear, ii. 4).

10.Fathers their children and themselves abuse, That wealth a husband for their daughters choose.
--Shirley.

11. Happy is he that is happy in his children.

12. Happy is the child whose father went to the devil.

13. Haur nizar-galeac aitari bizzarra thira. [The child that will cry, pulls at its father's
beard.]--Basque.

14. He has of [i.e. is like] his father.--Russian.

15. He is a chip of the old block.

16. He is cut out of his father's eyes [i.e. very like his father].--Frisian.

17. He is the son of his father.

18. He is a wise child that knows his own father.

19. He that can discriminate is the father of his father.--Veda.

20. He that hath wife and children wants not business.

21. He that marries a widow and three children marries four thieves.--Spanish.

22.

23. He was scant o' news that told that his father was hanged. --Scotch.

24. He who hath but one hog makes him fat; he who hath but one son makes him a fool.--Italian.

25. It is a wise father that knows his own child.--Shakespeare (Merch. of Venice, ii. 2).

26. Like father, like son.--Arabic.

27. Man sieht dem Kind an, was er fur einen Vater hat. [By the child one sees what sort of
man his father is.]--German.

28. Many a father might say ... "I put in gold into the furnace, and there came out this calf."--Spurgeon.

29. Many a good father has a bad son.

30. On est toujours le fils de quelqu'un. Cela console. [One is always the son of somebody.
That is a consolation.]--French.

31. Patris est filius. [He is the son of his father.]--Latin.

32. Such a father, such a son.--Spanish.

33. Tel pere, tel fils. [Like father, like son.]--French.

34. The child is the father of the man.--Wordsworth.

35. The child has a red tongue like its father.

36. The Devil's child, the Devil's luck.

37. The father can no more destroy his son than the cloud can extinguish by water the lightning
which precedes from itself.--Raghuvansa.

38.

39. The glory of children are their fathers.--Bible.

40. The gods do not avenge on the son the misdeeds of the father. Each, good or bad, reaps
the just reward of his own actions. The blessing of the parents, not their curse, is inherited.--Goethe.

41. The ungrateful son is a wart on his father's face; to leave it is a blemish, to cut it
a pain.--Afghan.

42. The words that a father speaks to his children in the privacy of home are not heard by
the world, but, as in whispering-galleries, they are clearly heard at the end and by posterity.--Jean
Paul.

43. To a father, who is growing old, there is nothing dearer than a daughter.--Euripides.

44.

45. Vinegar the son of wine [i.e. an unpopular son of a popular father].--Talmud.

46. Whoso wishes to live without trouble, let him keep from step-children and winter-hogs.--Low
German.

CHAPTER XXXI.

PROVERBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT CHILDHOOD, YOUTH, AND AGE.

1. A' are guid lasses, but where do a' the ill wives come frae? --Scotch.

2. Age does not make us childish, as people say; it only finds us still true children.--Goethe.

3. Aliud legunt pueri, aliud viri, aliud senes. [Children read one way, men another, old men
another.]--Terence.

4. A man at five may be a fool at fifteen.

5. A man at sixteen will prove a child at sixty.

6. An old knave is no babe.

7. A smiling boy seldom proves a good servant.

8. Auld folk are twice bairns.--Scotch.

9. Aus gescheidenen Kindern werden Gecken. [From clever children come fools.]--German.

10. Aus Kindern werden Leute, aus Jungfern werden Braute. [From children come grown-up people,
from maidens come brides.] --German.

11. Better bairns greet [i.e. weep] than bearded men. --Scotch.

12. Childhood and youth see all the world in persons. --Emerson.

13.

14. Childhood shows the man, as morning shows the day.--Milton.

15. Der Jungling kampft, damit der Greis geniesse. [The youth fights, in order that the old
man may enjoy.]--Goethe.

16. Een diamant van een dochter wordt een glas van eene vrouw. [A diamond of a daughter becomes
a glass of a wife.]--Dutch.

17. Eident [i.e. diligent] youth makes easy age.--Scotch.

18.
  Ewig jung zu bleiben
  Ist, wie Diehter schreiben,
  Hochstes Lebensgut;
  Willst du es erwerben,
  Musst du fruhe sterben.
  [To remain ever-young
  Is, as poets write,
  The highest good of life;
  If thou wouldst acquire it,
  Thou must die young.]--Ruckert.

19. Fanciulli piccioli, dolor di testa; fanciulli grandi dolor di cuore. [Little children bring
head-ache, big children, heart-ache.] --Italian.

20. Giovine santo, diavolo vecchio. [Young saint, old devil.] --Italian.

21. Hang a thief when he's young, and he'll no steal when he's auld.--Scotch.

22. Happy child! the cradle is still to thee an infinite space; once grown into a man, and
the boundless world will be too small to thee.--Schiller.

23.

24. He who mocks the infant's faith Shall be mocked in age and death.--Blake.

25. How little is the promise of the child fulfilled in the man! --Ovid.

26. If you lie upon roses when young, you will lie upon thorns when old.

27.
  Ihr Kinder, lernet jetzt genug,
  Ihr lernt nichts mehr in alten Zeiten.
  [Ye children, learn enough now;
  When time has passed, you will learn nothing more.]--Pfeffel.

28. In childhood a linen rag buys friendship.--Angolese.

29. In childhood be modest, in youth temperate, in manhood just, and in old age prudent.--Socrates.

30. In the opening bud you see the youthful thorns.--Talmud.

31. In youth one has tears without grief; in age, grief without tears.--Jean Paul.

32. Invention is the talent of youth, and judgment of age. --Swift.

33. It's no child's play, when an old woman dances.--Low German.

34. Jong rijs is te buigen, maar geen oude boomen. [A young twig can be bent, but not old trees.]--Dutch.

35. Jonge lui, domme lui; oude lui, koude lui. [Young folk, silly folk; old folk, cold folk.]--Dutch.

36. Junge Faullenzer, alte Bettler. [Young idlers, old beggars.] --German.

37. Just at the age 'twixt boy and youth When thought is speech, and speech is truth.--Scott.

38. La jeunesse devrait etre une caisse d'epargne. [Youth ought to be a savings-bank.]--Mme.
Svetchin.

39.

40. Let the young people mind what the old people say, And where there is danger, keep out
of the way.

41. Levity is artlessness in a child, a shameful fault in men, and a terrible folly in old
age.--La Rochefoucauld.

42. Maids are May when they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives.--Shakespeare
(As You Like It, iv. 1).

43. Man schont die Alten, wie man die Kinder schont. [We spare old people, as we spare children.]--Goethe.

44. Man mut de kinner bugen, so lange se junk sunt. [Children must be bent while they are young.]--Frisian.

45. Man's second childhood begins when a woman gets hold of him.--Barrie.

46. My son's my son till he hath got him a wife, But my daughter's my daughter all the days
of her life.

47. Nicht die Kinder bloss speist man mit Marchen ab. [Not children alone are put off with
tales.]--Leasing.

48. Old head and young hand.

49. Old heads will not suit young shoulders.

50. Old men are twice children.--Greek.

51. Once a man and twice a child.

52. Se il giovane sapesse, se il vecchio potesse, c' non c' e cosa che non si facesse. [If
the youth but knew, if the old man but could, there is nothing which would not be done.]--Italian.

53. Study is the bane of boyhood, the element of youth, the indulgence of manhood, and the
restorative of age.--Landor.

54. The household is the home of the man as well as of the child.--Emerson.

55. The man whom grown-up people love, children love still more.--Jean Paul.

56. There are in man, in the beginning, and at the end, two blank book-binder's leaves,--childhood
and age.--Jean Paul.

57. We are children for the second time at twenty-one, and again when we are gray and put all
our burden on the Lord.--Barrie.

58. We bend the tree when it is young.--Bulgarian.

59. When bairns are young they gar their parents' heads ache; when they are auld they make
their hearts break.--Scotch.

60. When children, we are sensualists, when in love, idealists. --Goethe.

61. Wie die Alten sungen, so zwitschern auch die Jungen. [As the old birds sing, the young
ones twitter.]--German.

62. Wir sind auch Kinder gewesen. [We too were once children.] --German.

63. Young men think that old men are fools; but old men know young men are fools.--Chapman.

64. Youth is a blunder; manhood, a struggle; old age, a regret. --Disraeli.

65.

CHAPTER XXXII.

PBOVEKBS, SAYINGS, ETC., ABOUT THE CHILD AND CHILDHOOD.

1. A beltless bairn cannot lie.--Scotch.

2. A burnt child dreads the fire.

3. A child is a Cupid become visible.--Novalis.

4. A daft nurse makes a wise wean.--Scotch.

5. A growing youth has a wolf in his belly.

6. A hungry belly has no ears.

7. A lisping lass is good to kiss.

8. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.

10. A pet lamb makes a cross ram.

11. A reasonable word should be received even from a child or a parrot.--Sanskrit.

12.

13. As sair greets [as much weeps] the bairn that's paid at e'en as he that gets his whawks
in the morning.--Scotch.

14. A tarrowing bairn was never fat.--Scotch.

15. Auld men are twice bairns.--Scotch.

16. Auld wives and bairns make fools of physicians.--Scotch.

17. Bairns are certain care, but nae sure joy.--Scotch.

18. Be born neither wise nor fair, but lucky.--Russian.

19.

20. Better be unborn than untaught.--Gaelic.

21. Birth's good, but breeding's better.--Scotch.

22. Bon sang ne peut mentir. Qui naquit chat court apres les souris. [Good blood cannot lie.
The kitten will chase the mouse.]--French.

23. Broken bread makes hale bairns.--Scotch.

24. By sports like these are all their cares beguil'd, The sports of children satisfy the child.--Goldsmith.

25. Ce que l'enfant entend au foyer, est bientot connu jusqu'au Moistre. [What children hear
at the fireside is soon known as far as Moistre (a town in Savoy).]--French.

26. Che nasce bella nasce maritata. [A beautiful girl is born married.]--Italian.

27. Childhood and youth see the world in persons.--Emerson.

28. Childhood is the sleep of Reason.--Rousseau.

29. Children and chickens are always a-picking.

30. Children and drunken people tell the truth.

31. Children and fools speak the truth.--Greek.

32. Children and fools have many lives.

33. Children are certain sorrows, but uncertain joys.--Danish.

34. Children are the poor man's wealth.--Danish.

35. Children are very nice observers, and they will often perceive your slightest defects.--Fenelon.

36. Children cry for nuts and apples, and old men for gold and silver.

37. Children have more need of models than of critics.--Jouberi.

38. Children have wide ears and long tongues.

38a. Children increase the cares of life, but they mitigate the remembrance of death.

39. Children, like dogs, have so sharp and fine a scent, that they detect and hunt out everything--the
bad before all the rest.--Goethe.

40. Children of wealth, or want, to each is given One spot of green, and all the blue of heaven.--Holmes.

41. Children pick up words as chickens peas, And utter them again as God shall please.

42. Children should have their times of being off duty, like soldiers.--Ruskin.

43. Children to bed, and the goose to the fire.

44. Children should laugh, but not mock; and when they laugh, it should not be at the weaknesses
and faults of others.--Buskin.

45. Children sweeten labours, but they make misfortunes more bitter.--Bacon. 46. Children tell
in the streets what they hear round the hearth.--Portuguese.

47. Das kann ein Kind machen. [A child can do that--that is very easy.]--German.

48. Das Kind mit dem Bade verschutten. [To throw away the child with the bath--to reject the
good along with the bad.]--German.

49. Dat is en kinnerspil. [That's child's play--very easy.] --Frisian.

50. Dat lutjeste un lefste. [The youngest and dearest.] --Frisian.

51. Dawted [i.e. petted] bairns dow bear little.--Scotch.

52. Dawted dochters mak' dawly [slovenly] wives.--Scotch.

53.

54. De wesen wil bemint, de nem sin naver kind. [Who would be loved, let him take his neighbour's
child.]--Frisian.

55. Die Kinder sind mein liebster Zeitvertreib. [Children are my dearest pastime.]--Chamisso.

56. Dochders zijn broze waaren. [Daughters are brittle ware.]--Dutch.

57. Do not meddle wi' the de'il and the laird's bairns.--Scotch.

58. Do not talk of a rape [rope] to a chiel whose father was hangit.--Scotch.

59. Do not train boys to learning by force or harshness; but direct them to it by what amuses
their minds, so that you may be the better able to discover with accuracy the peculiar bent
of the genius of each.--Plato.

60. Education begins its work with the first breath of life. --Jean Paul.

61. Education commences at the mother's knee, and every word spoken within the hearing of little
children tends towards the formation of character.--Ballou.

62. Eet maar Brod, dann wardst du grot. [Eat bread and you'll grow.]--Frisian.

63. Ein Kind, kein Kind, zwei Kind, Spielkind, drei Kind, viel Kind, vier Kind, ein ganzes
Hausvoll Kinder. [One child, no child; two children, playing children; three children, many
children; four children, a whole house full of children.]--German (with numerous variants).

64. Ein Laster kostet mehr als zwei Kinder. [One crime costs more than two children.]--German.

65. Es ist besser zehn Kinder gemacht, als ein einziges umgebracht. [It is better to have made
ten children than to have destroyed one.]--German.

66. Fools and bairns shouldna see things half done.--Scotch.

67. Fools with bookish learning are children with edged tools; they hurt themselves, and put
others in pain.--Zimmermann.

68. Fremde Kinder, wir lieben sie nie so sehr als die eignen. [We never love the children of
others so well as our own.]--Goethe.

69. Fremde Kinder werden wohl erzogen. [Other people's children are well brought up.]--German.

70. Gie a bairn his will,
    And a whelp his fill,
    Nane o' them will e'er do well.--Scotch.

71. Give a child till he craves, and a dog while his tail doth wag, and you'll have a fair
dog, but a foul knave.

72. Gie a dog an ill name and he'll soon be hanged.--Scotch.

73. God is kind to fou [i.e. drunken] folk and bairns.--Scotch.

74. God ne'er sent the mouth but He sent the meat wi't.--Scotch.

75. God watches over little children and drunkards.--Russian.

76. Gude bairns are eith [easy] to lear [teach].--Scotch.

77. Happy is he that is happy in his children.

78. He who sends mouths will send meat.

79. Heimerzogen Kind ist bei den Leuten wie ein Rind. [A home-bred child acts like a cow.]--German.

80. He that's born to be hanged will never be drowned.

81. He that is born under a tippeny [two-penny] planet will ne'er be worth a groat.--Scotch.

82. I cuori fanciulli non veston a bruno. [A child's heart puts on no mourning.]--Zendrini.

83. If our child squints, our neighbour's has a cast in both eyes.

84. Ill bairns are best heard at hame.--Scotch.

85. It is the squalling child that gets the milk.--Turkish.

86. Je lieberes Kind, je scharfere Rute. [The dearer the child, the sharper the rod.]--German.

87. Kinder hat man, Kinder kriegt man. [Children bring children.]--German.

88. Kinder kommen von Herzen und gehen zu Herzen. [Children come from the heart, and go to
the heart.]--German.

89. Kinder und Bienstocke nehmen bald ab bald zu. [Children and bee-hives now decrease, now
increase.]--German.

90. Kind's hand is ball fullt,
    Kind's zurn is ball stillt.
   [A child's hand is soon filled,
    A child's anger is soon stilled.]--Low German.

91. Late children are early orphans.--Spanish.

92. Les enfants sont ce qu'on les fait. [Children are what we make them.]--French.

93. Let thy child's first lesson be obedience, and the second will be what thou wilt.--Franklin.

94.

95. Lieber ungezogene, als verzogene Kinder. [Better unbred children than ill-bred ones.]--German.

96. Like the wife wi' the mony daughters, the best comes hindmost.--Scotch.

97. Little pitchers have big ears.

98. Little ones are taught to be proud of their clothes before they can put them on.--LocJce.

99. Lutze potten hebben ok oren [i.e. little children have ears].--Low German.

100. Man is wholly man only when he plays.--Schiller.

101. Maxima debetur pueris reverentia. [The greatest respect is due to boys (youth).]--Juvenal.

102. Men are generally more careful of the breed of their horses and dogs than of their children.--William
Penn.

103. Mony a ane kisses the bairn for love of the nurice.--Scotch.

104. More children, more luck.--German.

105. Nessuno nasce maestro. [No one is born master.]--Italian.

106. 'N god Kind, wen't slopt. [A good child, when it sleeps.] --Frisian.

107. O banish the tears of children! Continual rains upon the blossoms are hurtful.--Jean Paul.

108. O formose puer, nimium ne crede colori. [Oh, beauteous boy, trust not too much to thy
rosy cheeks.]--Virgil.

109. Of bairns' gifts ne'er be fain, Nae sooner they give but they seek them again.--Scotch.

110. One chick keeps a hen busy.

111. Our young men are terribly alike.--Alex. Smith.

112. Pars minima est ipsa puella sui. [The girl herself is the smallest part of herself.]--Ovid.

113. Parvum parva decent. [Small things become the small.] --Horace.

114. Play is the first poetry of the human being.--Jean Paul.

115. Qui aime bien, chatie bien. [Who loves well chastises well.]--French.

116. Qui parcit virga odit filium. [Who spareth the rod hateth his child.]--Latin.

117. Reckless youth maks ruefu' eild [age].--Scotch.

118. Royet [wild] lads may make sober men.--Scotch.

119. Rule youth well, for eild will rule itself.--Scotch.

120. Salt and bread make the cheeks red.--German.

121. Seven nurses cost the child an eye.--Russian.

122. Small birds [i.e. children] must have meat.

123. Sores are not to be shown to flies, and children are not to be taught to lie.--Malay.

124. Spare the rod and spoil the child.

125. Teach your children poetry; it opens the mind, lends grace to wisdom, and makes the heroic
virtues hereditary.--Mahomet.

126. Tenez la bride haute a votre fils. [Keep a tight rein over your son.]--French.

127. That's the piece a step-bairn never gat.--Scotch.

128. The bairn speaks in the field what he hears at the fireside. --Scotch.

129. The bearing and the training of a child is woman's wisdom. --Tennyson.

130. The best horse needs breeding and the aptest child needs teaching.--Arabic.

131. The boy's will is the wind's will.--Lapp.

132. The chief art is to make all that children have to do sport and play.--Locke.

133. The child says nothing but what he heard at the fireside. --Spanish.

134. The de'il's bairns hae the de'il's luck.--Scotch.

135. The heart is a child; it desires what it sees.--Turkish.

136. The heart of childhood is all mirth.--Keble.

137. The king is the strength of the weak; crying is the strength of children.--Sanskrit.

138. The right law of education is that you take the best pains with the best material.--Ruskin.

139. The spring is the youth of trees, wealth is the youth of men, beauty is the youth of women,
intelligence is the youth of the young.--Sanskrit.

140. The plays of children are the germinal leaves of all later life.--Froebel.

141. The time of breeding is the time of doing children good. --George Herbert.

142. They were scant o' bairns that brought you up.--Scotch.

143. The youth gets together his materials to build a bridge to the moon, or perchance a palace
on the earth; at length middle-aged, he concludes to build a woodshed with them.--Thoreau.

144. They who educate children well are more to be honoured than they who produce them; these
gave them life only, those the art of well-living.--Aristotle.

145. To a child all weather is cold.

146. To endure is the first and most necessary lesson a child has to learn.--Rousseau.

147. To write down to children's understandings is a mistake; set them on the scent, and let
them puzzle it out.--Scott.

148. Un enfant brule craint le feu. [A burnt child dreads the fire.]--French.

149. Ungezogene Kinder gehen zu Werk wie Binder. [Unbred children go to work like cattle.]--German.

150. Viel Kinder viel Vaterunser, viel Vaterunser viel Segen. [Many children, many Paternosters;
many Paternosters, many blessings.]--German.

151. We ought not to teach the children the sciences, but give them a taste for them.--Rousseau.

152. Wen de gosen water sen, dan willen se drinken. [When the geese (i.e. children) see water,
they want to drink.]--Frisian.

153. Wenn das Kind ertrunken ist, deckt man den Brunnen. [When the child is drowned, the well
is covered.]--German.

154. Wenn Kinder und Narren zu Markte gehen, losen die Kramer Geld. [When children and fools
go to market, the dealers make money.]--German.

155. Wenn Kinder wohl schreien, so lebeu sie lange. [When children cry well, they live long.]--German.

156. Wer wil diu kint vraget, der wil si liegen leren. [Who asks children many questions teaches
them to lie.]--Old High German.

157. What children hear at home soon flies abroad.

158. When children remain quiet, they have done something wrong.

159. Women and bairns lein [hide] what they ken not.--Scotch.

160. Women and children should retire when the sun does. --Portuguese.

161. You should lecture neither child nor woman.--Russian.

Index to Proverbs, etc.

Following is an index of peoples and authors for the foregoing proverbs and sayings (the references
are to pages):--

A, PEOPLES.

Afghan, 377,379,385,389. Angolese, 385,386,387,391. Arabic, 388,400. Badaga, 384. Basque, 382,387.
Bulgarian, 393. Chinese, 377. Danish, 377,378,395. Dutch, 391,392,396. Egyptian, 381. English,
376,377,380,382,383,384,385,387,388,390,392,393,394, 395,396,397,398,399,400,401. French, 379,380,383,385,388,395,398,399,400.
Frisian, 380,385,392,396,397,399,401. Gaelic, 376,395. German,378,380,382,383,384,385,387,388,390,392,393,396,397,398,
399,400,401. Greek, 393,395. Hebrew, 383. Hindu, 377. Italian, 383,385,387,388,391,393,395,399.
Lapp, 400. Latin, 380, 385, 388, 399. Low German, 377, 382, 389, 392, 398. Malay, 399. Oriental,
377. Persian, 382. Portuguese, 383,396, 401. Roman, 378. Russian, 376, 380, 383, 384, 385,
387, 394, 397, 399, 401. Sanskrit, 377, 382, 394, 400. Scotch, 380, 382, 383, 385, 388, 390,
391, 392, 393, 394, 395, 396, 397, 398, 399, 400, 401. Spanish, 377, 384, 388, 398. Telugu,
386. Turkish, 377, 398, 400.

B, AUTHORS, ETC.

Alcibiades, 383. Aristotle, 400. Auerbach, 378, 389. Bacon, 377, 379, 380, 388, 396. Ballon,
396. Barrie, 392, 393. Beecher, 377, 383. Bible, 377, 378, 388. Blake, 391. Burns, 381. Carlyle,
380. Chamisso, 396. Chapman, 393. Cicero, 380. Coleridge, 379, 380. Cornelia, 378. Cowper,
380. Dante, 379. Dickens, 381. Disraeli, 393. Dryden, 379, 380. Emerson, 379, 380, 381, 390,
393, 395. Eotvos, 376. Euripides, 389. Fenelon, 395. Franklin, 398. Froebel, 400. Goethe, 378,
379, 380, 381, 385, 389, 390, 392, 393, 395, 397. Goldsmith, 395. Haliburton, 383. Hare, 379,
383. Hazlitt, 381. Herbert, 387, 400. Hitopadesa, 377, 385. Holmes, 395. Horace, 376, 399.
Hugo, 384. Hunt, 378, 381. Jean Paul, 376, 380, 384, 385, 386, 389, 392, 393, 396, 399. Jesus,
377, 379, 381. Johnson, 377. Joubert, 395. Juvenal, 398. Keble, 384, 385, 400. La Bruyere,
377. Lacretelle, 383. Landor, 393. Langdale, 383. La Rochefoucauld, 392. Lessing, 392. Locke,
398, 400. Mahomet, 399. Manu, 377. Menander, 380. Milton, 381, 390. Napoleon, 385. Novalis,
394. Ovid, 391, 399. Penn, 398. Pfeffel, 391. Phadrus, 377. Pistorius, 376. Plato, 396. Pope,
394. Raghuvansa, 388. Rousseau, 395, 400, 401. Ruckert, 391. Ruskin, 378, 379, 381, 390, 395,
396, 400. Schiller, 381, 391, 398. Schopenhauer, 379. Scott, 400. Shakespeare, 381, 387, 388,
392, 393. Shirley, 387. Sidney, 391. Simons, 381. Smith, 399. Socrates, 392. Southey, 376.
Spurgeon, 388. Svetchin, 392. Swift, 392. Talmud, 389, 392. Tennyson, 384, 394, 400. Terence,
390. Thomson, 396. Thoreau, 400. Veda, 388. Virgil, 399. Weber, 376. West, 382. Wordsworth,
380, 381, 388, 394. Young, 387. Zachari, 380. Zendrini, 398. Zimmermann, 397.

For the collection of proverbs and sayings here given, the writer acknowledges his indebtedness
to the numerous dictionaries of quotations and proverbs, of which he has been able to avail
himself.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

CONCLUSION.

In these pages the "Child in Primitive Culture" has been considered in many lands and among
many peoples, and the great extent of the activities of childhood among even the lowest races
of men fully demonstrated. That the child is as important to the savage, to the barbarous peoples,
as to the civilized, is evident from the vast amount of lore and deed of which he is the centre
both in fact and in fiction. The broader view which anthropologists and psychologists are coming
to take of the primitive races of man must bring with it a larger view of the primitive child.
Still less than the earliest men, were their children, mere animals; indeed, possibly, nay
even probably, the children of primitive man, while their childhood lasts, are the equals,
if not the superiors, of those of our own race in general intellectual capacity. With the savage
as with the European of to-day, the "child is father of the man."

The primitive child, as language and folk-lore demonstrate, has been weighed, measured, and
tested physically and mentally by his elders, much as we ourselves are doing now, but in ruder
fashion--there are primitive anthropometric and psychological laboratories as proverb and folk-speech
abundantly testify, and examinations as harassing and as searching as any we know of to-day.
Schools, nay primitive colleges, even, of the prophets, the shamans, and the magi, the race
has had in earlier days, and everywhere through the world the activities of childhood have
been appealed to, and the race has wonderfully profited by its wisdom, its naivete, its ingenuity,
and its touch of divinity.

Upon, language, religion, society, and the arts the child has had a lasting influence, both
passive and active, unconscious, suggestive, creative. History, the stage, music, and song
have been its debtors in all ages and among all peoples.

To the child language owes many of its peculiarities, and the multiplicity of languages perhaps
their very existence. Religion has had the child long as its servant, and from the faith and
confidence of youth and the undying mother-love have sprung the thought of immortality and
the Messiah-hope that greets us all over the globe. Even among the most primitive races, it
is the children who are "of the Kingdom of Heaven," and the "Fall of Man" is not from a fabled
Garden of Eden, but from the glory of childhood into the stern realities of manhood. As a social
factor the child has been of vast importance; children have sat upon thrones, have dictated
the policies of Church and of State, and from them the wisest in the land have sought counsel
and advice. As oracles, priests, shamans, and thaumaturgi, children have had the respect and
veneration of whole peoples, and they have often been the very mouth-piece of deity, standing
within the very gates of heaven. As hero and adventurer, passing over into divinity, the child
has explored earth, sea, and sky, descending into nethermost hell to rescue the bones of his
father, and setting ajar the gates of Paradise, that the radiant glory may be seen of his mother
on earth. Finally, as Christ sums up all that is divine in men, so does the Christ-Child sum
up all that is God- like in the child. The Man-Jesus stands at the head of mankind, the Child-Jesus
is the first of the children of men. All the activities and callings of the child, the wisdom,
the beauty, the innocence of childhood find in folk-belief and folk-faith their highest, perfect
expression in the Babe of Bethlehem.

Motherhood and childhood have been the world's great teachers, and the prayer of all the race
should be:--

 "Let not (the) cultured years make less
  The childhood charm of tenderness."

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

The Bibliography here given is intended to serve the double purpose of enabling readers of
this book to verify the statements made and the citations from the numerous authorities referred
to in the compilation of the work, with as little difficulty as possible, and of furnishing
to such as may desire to carry on extended reading in any of the subjects touched upon in the
book a reasonable number of titles of the more recent and valuable treatises dealing with such
topics.

All references in the body of the book to works listed in the Bibliography are by number and
page. Thus: 6. 26 means that the quotation is from, or the opinion is derived from, Bachofen,
J. J., Das Mutterrecht, S. 26; 127.11. 180 means Post, A. H., Afrikanische Jurisprudenz, II.
Th., S. 180; 300. 15 means Lombroso, C., The Man of Genius, p. 15; 480 (1893). 140 means Journal
of American Folk-Lore, 1893, p. 140.

A. MOTHER, FATHER, FAMILY, SOCIETY.

1. ACHELIS, T.: Die Entwickelung der Ehe. Berlin, 1893. 125 S. 8vo.

2. Actes du congres international des ouvres et institutions feminines. Paris, 1890. 539 pp. 8vo.

3. ADAM, L.: Du genre dans les diverses langues. Paris, 1883. 36 pp. 8vo.

4. ANDERSEN, HANS C.: La Mere. Conte de Hans Christian Andersen en 22 Langues, St. Petersbourg,
1894.

5. AVERY, J.: Polyandry in India and Thibet. Amer. Antiq. and Or. Journ. Vol. IV., pp. 48-53.

6. BACHOFEN, J. J.: Das Mutterrecht. Eine Untersuchung uber die Gynokratie der alten Welt nach
ihrer religiosen und rechtlichen Natur. Stuttgart, 1861. xl, 435 S. 4to.

7. BACON, ALICE M.: Japanese Girls and Women. London, 1891. 330 pp. 8vo.

8. BANDELIER, A. F.: On the Social Organization and Mode of Government of the Ancient Mexicans.
Rep. Peab. Mus. II., pp. 557-699.

9. BASTIAN, A.: Matriarchat und Patriarchal. Ztschr. f. Ethnol. (Berlin), Verhndl., 1886, S.
331-341.

10. BAWA,--: Marriage Customs of the Moors of Ceylon. Journ. Ceylon Branch Roy. Asiatic Soc.
Vol. X. (1888), pp. 219-262.

11. BELILOVSKI, K. A.: [Woman in Siberia (Medico-ethnographical Sketch)]. Sborn. rabot akush
i zhensk. bolez ... Slavjanski [etc.]. St. Petersburg, 1894. Vol. I., pp. 527-629.

12. BERGEL, Jos.: Die Eheverhaltnisse der alten Juden. Leipzig, 1881.

13. BERNHOFT, F.: Verwandschaftsnamen und Eheformen der nordamerikanischen Volksstamme. Rostock,
1888.

14. BERTHOLON, M.: Les formes de la famille chez les premiers habitants de l'Afrique du nord
d'apres les ecrivains de I'antiquite et des coutumes modernes. Arch. de I'Anthr. Crim. Vol.
VIII. (1893), pp. 581-614.

15. BERTILLON, J.: Etudes demographiques du divorce et de la separation de corps dans les differents
pays de l'Europe. Paris, 1883. 2 vols. 116, 257 pp. 8vo.

16. BLOOMFIELD, M.: Women as Mourners in the Atharva-Veda. Proc. Amer. Orient. Soc. Vol. XV.
(1890), pp. xlix. ff.

16 a. BLYTH, D.: Notes on the Traditions and Customs of the Natives of Fiji in relation to
Conception, Pregnancy, and Parturition. Glasgow Med. Journ. Vol. XXVIII. (1887), pp. 176-186.

17. Boshaftes von der Gattin und Schwiegermutter. Sammlung von Spruchen, Reimen und Anekdoten.
Leipzig, 1882.

18. BUDGE, E. A. W.: The Mummy: Chapters on Egyptian Funeral Archaeology. Cambridge, 1893.
xvi, 404 pp. 8vo.

19. BUSCHMANN, J. C. E.: Ueber den Naturlaut. Konigl. Akad. d. Wissensch. (Berlin), Abh. a.
d. J. 1852. III. Th., S. 391-423. Reprinted (separate) as: BUSCHMANN, J. C. E., Ueber den Naturlaut.
Berlin, 1853. 34 S. 4to. Translation: On Natural Sounds, by Prof. J. C. E. Buschmann. Transl.
by Campbell Clarke.... Philol. Soc. (London) Proc. Vol. VI. (1855), pp. 188-206.

20. CAMBOULIVES, M.: L'Homme et la Femme a tous les Ages de la Vie. Etude hygienique, medicale,
physiologique, sociale et morale. Paris, 1890. 388 pp. 8vo.

21. CARR, L.: Social and Political Status of Woman among the Iroquois Indians. Rep. Peab. Mus.
(Cambridge, Mass.). III., pp. 207-232.

22. CHAMBERLAIN, A. F. Primitive Woman as Poet. Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci. XLII. (1893), Salem,
1894, p. 317.

23. CHAUVIN, JEANNE: Etude historique sur les professions accessibles aux Femmes. Paris, 1892.
296 pp. 8vo.

24. CHILD, L. M.: History of the Condition of Women in Various Ages and Nations. 2 vols. 1832.

25. CODRINGTON, R. H.: Social Regulations in Melanesia. Journ. Anthr. Inst. (London). Vol.
XVIII. (1889), pp. 300-313.

25 a. CONVERS, D.: Marriage and Divorce in the United States. Philadelphia, 1894.

26. CORIVEAUD, A.: Hygiene des Families. Paris, 1890. 328 pp. 8vo.

27. CORRE, A.: La Mere et l'Enfant dans les Races humaines. Paris, 1882.

28. CRAWLEY, A. E.: Sexual Taboo: A Study in the Relations of the Sexes. Journ. Anthr. Inst.
(London). Vol. XXIV. (1894-5), pp. 126-158, 219-235.

29. DAHN, F.: Das Weib im altgermanischen Recht und Leben. Samml. gemeinnutz. Vortrage. Prag.
No. 71.

30. DANKS, B,: Marriage Customs of the New Britain Group.

31. DARGUN, L.: Mutterrecht und Raubehe und ihre Reste im germanischen Recht und Leben. Breslau,
1883.

32. DARGUN, L.: Studien zum altesten Familienrecht: Erster Theil. Mutterund Vaterrecht. Leipzig,
1892. 155 S. 8vo.

33. DE GUBERNATIS, A.: Storia comparata degli usi natalizi in Italia e presso gli altri popoli
Indo-Europei. Milano, 1878.

34. DEVINE, E. T.: The Economic Function of Woman. Ann. Amer. Acad. Polit. and Soc. Sci. (Philadelphia).
Vol. V. (1894-5), pp. 45-60.

35. DORSEY, J. O.: Omaha Sociology. Third Ann. Rep. Bur. Ethn. (1881-2), Washington, 1884,
pp. 205-370.

36. DRUMMOND, H.: The Evolution of Man. Being the Lowell Lectures delivered at Boston, Mass.,
April, 1893, by Professor Henry Drummond. Edited by William Templeton. Philadelphia, 1893.
244 pp. 12mo.

37. DRUMMOND, H.: The Ascent of Man (Lowell Lectures). New York, 1894. 346 pp. 8vo.

38. EBERS, G.: Woman in Ancient Egypt. Catholic World, 1880-1881, pp. 563-572.

39. ECKART, R.: Mutterliebe und Leben in den schonsten Liedern verherrlicht. Herausg. v. Rudolf
Eckart. Stuttgart, 1890.

40. ELLIS, A. B.: On Polyandry. Pop. Sci. Mo. (New York). Vol. XXXIX. (1891), pp. 801-809.

41. ELLIS, A. B.: Marriage and Kinship among the Ancient Israelites. Ibid. Vol. XLII. (1892-3),
pp. 325-337.

42. ELLIS, HAVELOCK: Man and Woman: A Study of Human Secondary Sexual Characters. London and
New York, 1894. xiv, 409 pp. 8vo.

43. ENGELMANN, G.: Labor [Parturition] amongst Primitive Peoples. St. Louis, 1883. 227 pp.
8vo. Also German Transl., Wien, 1884.

44. ENGELS, F.: Der Ursprung der Familie, des Privateigenthums und des Staats. Hottingen-Zurich,
1884.

45. FAUST, J. H.: "Das, was Wir lieben," im Rahmen des Sprichwortes. Humor, Witz und Satire
uber die Tochter Eva's. 2te Aufl. Hamburg. 102 S.

46. FAWCETT, F.: On basivis: Women, who, through dedication to a deity, assume masculine privileges.
Journ. Anthr. Soc. (Bombay). Vol. II. (1891), pp. 322-354.

47. FELICE, L. V. DE: II divorzio e la donna. Napoli, 1893. 63 pp. 16mo.

48. FELKIN, R. W.: Ueber Lage und Stellnng der Frau bei der Geburt, auf Grund eigener Beobachtung
bei den Negervolkern der oberen Nil-Gegenden. Marburg, 1885. 72 S. 8vo.

49. FERE, CIL.: La famille nevropathique. Theorie teratologique de l'heredite' et de la degenerescence.
Paris, 1894. 334 pp. 12mo.

50. FERRERO, G.: The Problem of Woman from a Bio-Sociological Point of View. Monist (Chicago).
Vol. IV. (1894), pp. 261-274.

51. FEWKES, J. W.: The Kinship of a Tanoan-speaking Community. Amer. Anthrop. (Washington).
Vol. VII. (1894), pp. 162-167.

52. FEWKES, J. W.: Kinship of the Tusayan Villagers. Ibid. 394-417.

53. FINCK, H. T.: Eomantic Love and Personal Beauty. Their Development, Causal Relations, Historic
and National Peculiarities. 2 vols. London, 1887. 8vo.

54. FISCHER, F. C. J.: Ueber die Probenachte der deutschen Bauernmadchen. Zurich, o.J.

55. FISON, L., and HOWITT, A. W.: Kamilaroi and Kurnai. Group-Marriage and Relationship, and
Marriage by Elopement, etc. Melbourne, 1880.

56. FISON, L.: Australian Marriage Laws. Journ. Anthr. Inst. (London). Vol. IX., pp. 354-358.

57. FISON, L.: Group-Marriage and Relationship. Rep. Austral. Ass. Adv. Sci. (Vol. IV., 1892.)
Hobart, 1893. pp. 688-697.

58. FLOESSEL, E.: Die Schwiegermutter. Kulturgeschichtliche Beitrage. Dresden, 1890.

59. FOL, II.: La ressemblance entre epoux. Rev. Scientif. (Paris). XLVII. (1891), pp. 47-49.

60. GAMBLE, ELIZA B.: The Evolution of Woman. An Inquiry into the Dogma of her Inferiority
to Man. New York, 1894. 356 pp. 8vo.

61. GARNETT, Miss L. M. J.: The Women of Turkey and their Folk-Lore. With Chapters on the Ethnography
of Turkey, Folk-Conceptions of Nature, and the Origin of Matriarchy by J. S. Stuart Glennie.
Christian, Jewish, and Moslem Women. London, 1890-1. 2 vols. 461, 632 pp. 8vo.

62. GARNIER, A.: Anomalies Sexuelles. Paris, 1889. 544 pp. 8vo.

63. GATSCHET, A. S.: Sex-Denoting Nouns in American Languages. Trans. Amer. Philol. Assoc.
Vol. XX. (1891), pp. 159-171.

64. GEDDES, P., and J. H. THOMPSON: The Evolution of Sex. London and New York, 1890. xvi, 332
pp. 8vo.

65. GESSMANN, G. W.: Die Mannerhand und ihre Bedeutung fur die Erforschung des mannlichen Charakters.
Eine physiognomische Studie. Berlin, 1894. 92 S. 8vo. 29 Abbild.

66. GESSMANN, G. W.: Die Frauenhand und ihre Bedeutung fur die Erkenntniss des weiblichen Charakters.
Eine physiognomisehe Studie. Berlin, 1894. 92 S. 8vo. 21 Abbild.

67. GIRARD-TEULON, A.: La Mere chez certains peuples de l'Antiquite. Paris, 1867. 60 pp. 8vo.

68. GIRARD-TEULON, A.: Les Origines du Mariage et de la Famille. Paris, 1884. xxiii, 525 pp. 8vo.

69. GONCOURT, EDMOND ET JULES DE: La Femme aux dix-huitieme Siecle. Nouv. ed. Paris, 1877.

70. GRINNELL, G. B.: Marriage among the Pawnees. Amer. Anthrop. Vol. IV. (1891), pp. 275-281.

71. HABEBLANDT, C.: Altjungfernschicksal nach dem Tode. Globus. XXXIV. Bd. (1878).

72. HALBERT, H. C.: Courtship and Marriage among the Choctaws of Mississippi. American Naturalist.
March, 1882.

73. HARRISON, C.: Religion and Family among the Haidas (Queen Charlotte Islands). Journ. Anthr.
Inst. (London). Vol. XXI. (1891), pp. 14-29.

74. HAUPT, P.: The Babylonian Woman's Language. Amer. Journ. Philol. (Baltimore). Vol. V.,
pp. 68-84.

75. HELD, Jos. v.: Konigtum und Gottlichkeit. Am Ur-Quell (Lunden). III. Bd. (1892), S. 119-124,
152-157, 195-197, 220-225, 241-243.

76. HELLWALD, F. von: Die menschliche Familie. Leipzig, 1889.

77. HENNE AM RHYN, O.: Die Frau in der Kulturgeschichte. 2. Aufl. Berlin, 1892.

78. HERING, O.: Die Frauen Japans im Spiegel der fur sie bestimmten Literatur. Mitth. d. deutsch.
Gesellsch. f. Natur--und Volkerkunde Ostasiens (Tokio). V. Bd., Yokohama, 1889, Heft 41, S. 10-27.

79. HIGGINSON, T. W.: Common Sense about Women. Boston, 1892. 403 pp. 8vo.

80. HOWITT, A. W., and LORIMER FISON. From Mother-Right to Father-Right. Journ. Anthr. Inst.
(London). Vol. XII. (1882).

80 a. JESSUP, H. H.: The Women of the Arabs. London, 1874.

81. KATSCHER, L.: Bilder aus dem chinesischen Leben. Mit besonderer Rucksicht auf Sitten und
Gebrauche. Leipzig u. Heidelberg, 1881.

82. KIDD, BENJ.: Social Evolution. New ed. New York, 1894. x, 348 pp. 8vo.

83. KIRKITAR, K. R.: On the ceremonies observed among Hindus during Pregnancy and Parturition.
Journ. Anthr. Soc. (Bombay). Vol. I. (1889), pp. 394-404.

84. KOVALEVSKY, M.: Modern Customs and Ancient Laws of Russia (Ilchester Lectures for 1889-90).
London, 1891. x, 260 pp. 8vo.

85. KRABBES, TH.: Die Frau im altfranzosischen Carlsepos. Marburg, 1884.

86. KRAFFT-EBING, FREIH. R. v.: Psychopathia Sexualis. Eine klinischforensische Studie. Stuttgart,
1886.

87. KRAUSS, F. S.: Sitte und Brauch bei den Sudslaven. Wien, 1885.

88. KRAUSS, F. S.: Das Mundschaftsrecht des Mannes uber die Ehefrau bei den Sudslaven. Mitth.
d. anthr. Gesellsch. (Wien). XV. Bd. (1885).

89. KUBARY, J. S.: Aus dem samoanischen Familienleben. Globus. XLVII. Bd. (1885).

90. KULISCHER, M.: Die geschlechtliche Zuchtwahl bei dem Menschen in der Urzeit. Ztschr f.
Ethnol. (Berlin). VIII. Bd. (1876), S. 140-157.

91. KULISCHER, M.: Intercommunale Ehe durch Raub und Kauf. Ibid. X. Bd. (1878), S. 193-225.

92. KULISCHER, M.: Die communale "Zeitehe" und ihre Ueberreste. Arch.f. Anthrop. (Braunschweig).
XI. Bd. (1879), S. 215-229.

93. LACOMBE, P.: La Famille dans la societe Romaine, etude de Moralite comparee. Paris, 1889.

94. LEA, H. C.: An Historical Sketch of Sacerdotal Celibacy in the Christian Church. Boston, 1884.

95. LE BON, G.: L'Homme et les Societes. Paris, 1881. 2 vols. 8vo. 96. LECKY, W. E. H.: History
of European Morals from Augustus to Charlemagne. London, 1877. 2 vols.

97. LEGOUVE, E.: Histoire morale des Femmes. Paris, 1882. vii, 432 pp. 8vo.

98. LEHMANN, K.: Verlobung und Hochzeit in den nordgermanischen Rechten des fruhesten Mittelalters.
Munchen, 1882.

99. LETOURNEAU, CH.: The Evolution of Marriage and the Family. London, 1891.

100. LETOURNEAU, CH.: Sociology based upon Ethnography. Transl. H. M. Trollope. New ed. London,
1893. xv, 608 pp. 8vo.

101. LETOURNEAU, CH.: L'Evolution Politique dans les diverses Races humaines. Paris, 1890.
xxiii, 561 pp. 8vo.

102. LICHTSCHEIN, L.: Die Ehe nach mosaisch-talmudischer Auffassung. Leipzig, 1889.

103. LIPPERT, G.: Die Geschichte der Familie. Stuttgart, 1884. 260 S. 8vo.

104. LOMBROSO, C., and G. FERRERO: The Female Offender. New York, 1895. xxvi, 313 pp. 8vo.

105. LOTI, P.: Woman in Japan. Harper's Monthly (New Tork). Vol. LXXXII. (1890), pp. 119-131.

105 a. LUBBEN, A.: "Modersprak." Correspbl. f. niederd. Sprachfrschg. VI. Jahrg. (1881), S.
64-66; VII., S. 7, 63; VIII., S. 75; XII., S. 55-56; XIII., S. 16.

106. LUCKOCK, H. M.: The History of Marriage, Jewish and Christian, in Relation to Divorce
and Certain Forbidden Degrees. London, 1894.

107. LUMHOLTZ, C.: Tarahumari Life and Customs. Scribner's Mag. (New York). Vol. XVI. (1894),
pp. 296-311.

108. MACFARLANE, A.: Analysis of Relationships of Consanguinity and Affinity. Journ. Anthr.
Inst. (London). Vol. XII. (1882).

109. MAINOV, W. N.: Wedding Customs and Legal Observances among the Mordwins [in Finnish].
2 pts. Helsingfors, 1883-1888.

110. MANTEGAZZA, P.: Anthropologisch-culturhistorische Studien uber die Geschlechtsverhaltnisse
des Menschen. Jena, 1886.

111. MASON, O. T.: The Human Beast of Burden. Smithson. Rep., 1886-1887. Pt. II., pp. 237-295.

112. MASON, O. T.: Woman's Share in Primitive Culture. Amer. Antiq. and Orient. Journ. Vol.
XI., pp. 1-13.

113. MASON, O. T.: Woman's Share in Primitive Culture. New York, 1894. xiii, 295 pp. 8vo.

114. McLENNAN, J. F.: The Patriarchal Theory. London, 1885. 115. McLENNAN, J. F.: Studies in
Ancient History, comprising a reprint of Primitive Marriage. A new ed. London, 1886. xxxi,
387 pp. 8vo.

116. MIKLUCHO-MACLAY, v.: Geschlechtlicher Umgang mit Madchen vor der Geschlechtareife derselben.
Ztschr. f. Ethnol. (Berlin), 1880. S. 88.

117. MORGAN, L. H.: Ancient Society. New York, 1878. xvi, 560 pp. 8vo.

118. MORGAN, L. H.: Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family. (Smithson. Contrib.
to Knowl., Vol. XVII.) Washington, 1871. xii, 590 pp. 4to.

119. MORGAN, L. H.: Houses and House-Life of the American Aborigines. (Contrib. to North Amer.
Ethnol., Vol. V.) Washington, 1881. xiv, 281 pp. 4to.

120. MORLEY, MARGARET W.: A Song of Life. Chicago, 1891. 156 pp. 8vo.

121. MORTILLET, G. DE: Origines de la chasse, de la peche et de l'agriculture. I. Chasse, peche,
domestication. Paris, 1890. xiii, 570 pp. 8vo.

122. MORTON, F. W.: Woman in Epigram. Flashes of Wit, Wisdom and Satire from the World's Literature.
Compiled by Frederick W. Morton. Chicago, 1894.

123. PARKER, E. H.: Comparative Chinese Family Law. China Review (Hong-Kong). Vol. VIII. (1879-1880).

124. PISCHON, C. N.: Der Einfluss des Islam auf das hausliche, sociale und politische Leben
seiner Bekenner. Leipzig, 1881.

125. PLOSS, H.: Das Weib in der Natur- und Volkerkunde. Anthropologische Studien von Dr. H.
Ploss. Dritte umgearb. u. stark verm. Aufl. Nach d. Tode des Verf. bearb. u. herausgeg. v.
Dr. Max Bartels. Leipzig, 1891. 2 Bde., xxiii, 575; vii, 684 S. 8vo.

126. PORTER, ROSE: About Women: What Men have Said. Chosen and arranged by Rose Porter. New
York and London, 1894. 207 pp.

127. POST, A. H.: Afrikanische Jurisprudenz. Ethnologisch-juristische Beitrage zur Kenntniss
der einheimischen Rechte Afrikas. 2 Thlc. in einem Bd. Oldenburg u. Leipzig, 1887. xx, 480;
xxx, 192 S. 8vo.

128. POST, A. H.: Die Geschlechtsverhaltnisse der Urzeit und die Entstehung der Ehe. Oldenburg,
1875.

129. POST, A. H.: Studien zur Entwickelungsgeschichte des Familienrechtes. Bin Beitrag zu einer
allgemeinen vergleichenden Rechtswissenschaft auf ethnologischer Basis. Oldenburg u. Leipzig, 1890.

130. POST, A. H.: Grundriss der ethnologischen Jurisprudenz. Oldenburg, 1894-1895. 2 Bde. Gr.
8vo. I. Bd., 1894, xii, 473 S.; II. Bd., 1895, xv, 744 S.

130 a. RADEMACHER, C.: Ueber die Bedeutung des Herdes. Am Ur-Quell, 1893. S. 57-60.

131. RAPHAEL, A.: Die Sprache der Proverbia qui dicuntur super naturam feminarum. Berlin, 1887.
8vo.

132. REINSBERG-DURINGSFELD, O. FREIH. r.: Die Frau im Sprichwort. Leipzig, 1862.

133. ROCCO, G.: La filosofia del matrimonio ed i mali individuali c sociali del divorzio. Napoli,
1892. 121 pp. 8vo.

134. ROGER, C.: Social Life in Scotland from Early to Recent Times. 3 Vols. Edinburgh, 1884-1886.

135. ROSENBAUM, J.: Geschichte der Lustseuche im Alterthume. 3 Abdr. Halle, 1882.

136. SABELLJIN, J.: History of Russian Life from the Oldest Times. [In Russian.] Moscow, 1876-1879.
1167 pp.

137. SAVAGE, M. J.: Man, Woman, and Child. Boston, 1884. 211 pp. 8vo.

138. SAYCE, A. H.: Social Life among the Assyrians and Babylonians. London, 1893. 126 pp.

139. SCHELLONG, O.: Ueber Familien-Leben und Gebrauche der Papuas der Umgebung von Finschhafen.
Ztschr. f. Ethnol. (Berlin). XXL, Bd. (1889), S. 10-25.

140. SCHERER, O.: Bilder aus dem serbischen Volks- und Familienleben. Neusatz, 1882.

141. SCHEURL, O. v.: Das gemeine deutsche Eherecht. Erlangen, 1882.

142. SCHLAGINTWEIT, E.: Die Hindu-Wittwe in Indien. Globus. XLIII. Bd. (1883).

143. SCHMIDT, K.: Jus primae noctis. Freiburg im B., 1881.

144. SCHMIDT, K.: Der Streit uber das jus primae noctis. Ztschr. f. Ethnol. (Berlin). XVI.
Bd. (1884), S. 18-59.

145. SCHROEDER, L. v.: Die Hochzeitsgebrauche der Esten und einiger anderer finnisch-ugrischen
Volkerschaften in Vergleichung mit denen der indogermanischen Volker. Berlin, 1888.

146. SCHWIERIGER-LERCHENFELD, A. FREIH. v.: Das Frauenleben der Erde. Wien-Pest-Leipzig, 1881.

147. SIBREE, J.: Relationships and the Names used for them among the Peoples of Madagascar,
etc. Journ. Anthr. Inst. (London). Vol. IX. (1879).

148. SIGHELE, L.: La foule criminelle. Paris, 1892. 185 pp. 8vo.

149. SMITH, E. M.: Woman in Sacred Song. A Library of Hymns, Religious Poems, and Sacred Music
by Women. Compiled and edited by E. M. Smith (Mrs. G. C. S.). Boston, 1885. xl, 883 pp. 4to.

150. SMITH, MRS. BURTON: The Mother in Woman's Advancement. Pop. Sci. Mo. (New York). Vol.
XLVL. (1895), pp. 622-626.

151. SMITH, W. R.: Marriage and Kinship in Early Arabia. Cambridge, (Engl.), 1885.

152. STARCKE, C. N.: The Primitive Family in its Origin and Development. New York, 1889. 315
pp. 8vo.

153. STEIN, L. v.: Die Frau auf dem Gebiete der Nationalokonomie. 4. Aufl. Stuttgart, 1876.

154. STRICKER, W.: Ethnographisehe Untersuohungen uber die kriegerischen Weiber (Amazonen)
der alten and neuen Welt. Arch. f. Anthr. (Braunschweig). V. Bd. (1872), S. 220 ff, S. 451.

155. THULIE, H.: La Femme. Essai de sociologie, physiologie. Ce qu'elle a ete, ce qu'elle est.
Les theories: ce qu'elle doit etre. Paris, 1885. 8vo.

156. TRASK, K.: Motherhood and Citizenship. Forum (New York). Vol. XVIII. (1895), pp. 607-618.

157. TREICHEL, A.: Lactation beim mannlichen Geschlechte. Am Ur-Quell. IV. Bd. (1893), S. 70-71.

158. TRUMBULL, J. H.: On Algonkin Names for Man. Amer. Philol. Assoc. Trans. (1871), Hartford
(Conn.), 1872, pp. 138-159.

159. TRUMBULL, H. C.: Studies in Oriental Social Life. Philadelphia, 1894.

160. UZANNE, O.: La femme a Paris. Nos Contemporaines. Paris, 1894. Gr. 8vo.

161. VILLEMONT, M.: Dictionnaire historique et scientifique de l'amour et du mariage. Paris,
1886. 489 pp. 12mo.

162. VOLKOV, T.: Rites et usages nuptiaux en Ukraine. Anthropologie (Paris). Vol. II. (1891),
pp. 537-587; Vol. III. (1892), pp. 541-588.

163. WAKE, C. S.: The Development of Marriage and Kinship. London, 1889.

164. WASSEKZIEHER, DK.: Das Weib in der Sprache. Am Ur-Quell, III. Bd., S. 214-215.

165. WEINHOLD, K.: Die deutschen Frauen in dem Mittelalter. 2 Bde. 2. Aufl. Wien, 1882.

166. WESTERMARCK, C.: The History of Human Marriage. 2d ed. London and New York, 1894. xx,
644 pp. 8vo.

167. WIEDEMANN, A.: Die Milchverwandschaft im alten Aegypten. Am. Ur-Quell. III. Bd. (1892),
S. 260-267.

168. WILKEN, G. A.: Das Matriarchat bei den alten Arabern. (Germ. Trans.) Leipzig, 1884.

169. WINTERNITZ, M.: On a Comparative Study of Indo-European Customs with Special Reference
to the Marriage Customs. Trans. Intern. Folk-Lore, Congr. London, 1891.

170. WLISLOCKI, H. v.: Aus dem Volksleben der Magyaren. Ethnologische Mittheilungen. Munchen, 1893.

171. WLISLOCKI, H. v.: Volksglaube und Volksbrauch der Siebenburger Sachsen. Berlin, 1893.

172. WLISLOCKI, H. v.: Die Stamm-und Familienverhaltnisse der transsilvanischen Zeltzigeuner.
Globus. L. Bd. (1888), S. 183 fl.

173. ZANETTI, Z.: La medicina delle nostre donne. Studio folklorico. Castello, 1892. xviii,
271 pp. 8vo.

174. ZMIGRODZKI, M. v.: Die Mutter bei den Volkern des arisehen Stammes. Eine anthropologisch-historische
Skizze als Beitrag zur Losung der Frauenfrage. Munchen, 1886. 444 S. 8vo.

175. ZUCCARELLI, A.: Divorzio e scienza antropologica. Napoli, 1893. 46 pp.

Following is a subject-index to the titles of Section A:--

Abnormal and delinquent, 49, 86, 104, 110, 116, 185, 148, 144, 148, l57. Africa, 14, 48. Amazons,
154. American Indians, 13, 27, 51, 52, 63, 69, 72, 73. Arabia, 80a, 151, 168. Assyria, 138.
Australia, 54, 55-57.

Babylonia, 74, 138.

Celibacy, 71, 94. Ceylon, 10. Child-birth, l6a, 43, 48, 83. China, 81, 123. Chirography, 65, 66.

Divorce, 15, 25a, 47, 106, 183, 175.

Egypt, 19, 88. Epigram, 17, 45, 122, 126. Esthonian, 145. Evolution, 36, 37.

Family, 26, 32, 44, 68, 76, 89, 92, 99, 103, 119, 123, 128, 139, 140, 151, 152, 163, 166, 169.
Father, 114, 130a, 151. Father-right, 9, 82, 80, 114. Fiji, l6a. France, 85, 160.

Gender, 3, 68. Germany, 29, 81, 54, 98, 141, 165. Girls, 7, 54, 116. Gypsies, 172.

India, 5, 16, 85. Italy, 33, 173.

Japan, 7, 78, 105. Jews, 12, 41, 102.

Language, 19, 74, 158, 164. Literature, 78, 126.

Magyars, 170. Man, names for, 158. Marriage, 1, 10, 12, 13, 25a, 30, 31, 33, 41, 55-57, 68,
69, 72, 73, 88, 91, 98, 99, 102, 106, 109, 115, 141, 145, 151, 161-163, 166, 169. Medicine,
173. Mexico, 8. Morals, 96. Mordwins, 109. Mother, 4, 39, 67, 150, 156, 174. Matriarchate and
mother-right, 6, 9, 31, 32, 80, 168. Mother and child, 27. Mother-in-law, 17, 58. Mourning,
16. Mummy, 19.

New Britain, 30.

Old maids, 71. Oriental, 159.

Papua, 139. Poetry of motherhood, 39. Poets, 22, 149. Polyandry, 5, 40. Proverbs, 45, 132, 133.

Relationship, 13, 41, 108, 118, 147, 167. Religion, 73, 124. Rome, 92, 159. Royalty, 75. Russia,
84, 136.

Samoa, 89. Satire, 17, 45. Scotland, 134. Servia, 140. Sex-relations, 20, 28, 42, 46, 53, 54,
59, 60, 62, 64, 86, 90, 110, 120, 125, 128, 135, 137, 143, 144, 157, 161. Siberia, 11. Slavonic,
87, 88. Sociology, 8, 25, 85, 51, 52, 81, 82, 84, 95, 100, 101, 107, 117, 127, 130, 184, 136,
138, 170, 172.

Tibet, 5. Transylvania, 171, 172. Turkey, 61, 80a.

Ukraine, 167. United States, 25a.

Woman, names for, 164. Woman's position and labours, 2, 11, 21-24, 29, 34, 88, 46, 50, 61,
69, 77, 78, 80a, 85, 97, 104, 105, 111-118, 121, 122, 125, 132, 146, 158, 155, 160, 165.

B. CHILDREN, CHILDHOOD, CHILD-LIFE, ETC.

176. "A.," and MENELLA SMEDLEY: Poems Written for a Child.

177. "A.," and MENELLA SMEDLEY: The Child's World.

178. ADAMS, J. D.: Child-Life and Girlhood of Remarkable Women. New York, 1894.

179. AMELINEAU, E.: La Morale Egyptienne quinze siecles avant notre ere. Paris, 1892. lxxxviii,
261 pp. 8vo.

180. America's Shame: Symposium on the Age of Consent Laws in the United States. Arena (Boston).
Vol. XI. (1895), pp. 192-215.

180 a. AYRTON, M. C.: Child-Life in Japan. London, 1879. xx, 125 pp.

181. BABCOCK, W. H.: Games of Washington Children. Amer. Anthrop. (Washington). Vol. I. (1888),
pp. 243-284.

182. BALDWIN, J. M.: Mental Development in the Child and the Race. Vol. I. Methods and Processes.
New York, 1895. xvi, 496 pp. 8vo.

183. BALL, V.: Wolf-Reared Children in India. Journ. Anthr. Inst. (London). Vol. IX. (1879),
pp. 465-474.

184. BAMFORD, MARY E.: Child-Life among the California Foot-Hills. Overl. Mo. (San Francisco).
2d ser. Vol. II. (1883), pp. 56-59.

184 a. BARNES, EARLE.: Theological Life of a California Child. Pedag. Sem. (Worcester, Mass.).
Vol. II., 442-448.

185. BARNSTEIN, A. P. v.: Beitrage zur Geschichte mid Literatur des deutschen Studententhumes.
Wurzburg, 1882. xiii, 156 S. 8vo.

186. BOAS, F.: The Game of Cat's Cradle. Intern. Arch. f. Ethnogr. I. Bd. (1888), S. 229.

187. BOLTON, H. C.: The Counting-Out Rhymes of Children, their Antiquity, Origin, and Wide
Distribution. A Study in Folk-Lore. New York, 1888. ix, 123 pp. Gr. 8vo.

188. BONFIGLI, C.: Dei fattori sociali della pazzia in rapporto con l'educazione infantile.
Roma, 1894.

189. BRAMHALL, MAE ST. JOHN: The Wee Ones of Japan. New York, 1894. 137pp. 12mo.

190. BRAMLEY, H. R., and JOHN STAINER: Christmas Carols New and Old. London, n.d. 94 pp.

191. BREWER, E. C.: A Dictionary of Miracles. London, 1884. xliv, 582 pp. 8vo.

192. BREWER, W. H.: The Instinctive Interest of Children in Bear and Wolf Stories. Proc. Amer.
Ass. Adv. Sci. Vol. XLII. (1893), Salem, 1894, pp. 309-311.

193. BRINTON, D. G.: On the Physiological Correlations of Certain Linguistic Radicals. Amer.
Orient. Soc. Proc., March, 1894, pp. cxxxiii-iv.

194. BROWN, H. W.: Some Records of the Thoughts and Reasonings of Children. From the Collection
of Observations at the State Normal School at Worcester, Mass. Pedag. Sem. Vol. II. (1893),
pp. 358-396.

195. BULWER-LYTTON, E. R.: Fables in Song. London, 1874.

196. BYJRNHAM, W. H.: The Study of Adolescence. Pedag. Sem. Vol. I. (1891), pp. 174-198.

197. CAMPBELL HELEN: Child-Life in the Slums of New York. Demorest's Fam. Mag. (New York), 1892.

198. CARSTENS, H.: Die Schwalbe im Volksmunde und im Kinderlied. Am. Urdhs-Brunnen. II. Bd.,
S. 240-242.

198 a. CARSTENS, H.: Der Storch als heiliger Vogel im Volksmund und im Kinderlied. Am Urdhs-Srunnen.
Heft 1, 1881, S. 12-14.

199. CARSTENSEN, H. H.: A B C Spiel. Am Ur-Quell. IV. Bd. (1893), S. 55, 150, 260; V. Bd. (1894),
S. 114, 192, 290; VI. Bd. (1895), 42-3.

200. CHAMBERLAIN, A. F.: Notes on Indian Child-Language. Amer. Anthr. Vol. III. (1890), pp.
237-241.

201. CHAMBERLAIN, A. F.: Further Notes on Indian Child-Language. Ibid. Vol. VI. (1893), pp.
321-322.

202. CHAMBERLAIN, A. F.: The Use of Diminutives in -ing by Some Writers in Low German Dialects.
Public. Mod. Lung. Asso. Amer. Vol. VII. (1892), pp. 212-247.

203. CHAMBERLAIN, A. F.: The Coyote and the Owl (Tales of the Kootenay Indians). Mem. Intern.
Congr. Anthr. (1893), Chicago, 1894, pp. 282-284.

204. Journ. Amer. Folk-Lore. Vol. VI. (1893), pp. 13-24.

205. CHERVIN, A.: Faut-il conper le frein de la Langue (Extr. de La Voix Parlee et Chantee,
frevrier, 1894). Paris, 1894. 16 pp.

206. CHRISMAN, O.: Secret Language of Children. Science (New York). Vol. XXII. (1893), pp. 303-305.

207. Christmas with the Poets. London, n.d. x, 202 pp.

208. CLEVELAND, DUCHESS OF: The True Story of Kaspar Hauser. From Official Documents. London
and New York, 1893. 122pp. Sm. 8vo.

209. COFFIGNON, A.: L'Enfant a Paris. Paris, 1890. xxii, 440 pp.

210. CORIVEAU, A.: La Sante de nos Enfants. Paris, 1890. 288 pp. 8vo.

211. CUIR, A. F.: Les Petits Ecoliers. Lectures morales sur les Defauts et les Qualites des
Enfants. Paris, 1893. 12mo.

212. CULIN, S.: Street Games of Brooklyn. Journ. Amer. Folk-Lore. Vol. IV. (1891), pp. 221-236.

213. CULIN, S.: Exhibit of Games in the Columbian Exposition. Ibid. Vol. VI. (1893), pp. 205-227.

214. DANIELS, A. H.: The New Life: A Study of Regeneration (Repr. from Amer. Journ. Psych.,
Vol. VI., 1893, pp. 61-106). Worcester, Mass., 1893. 48 pp. 8vo.

215. DENEUS, CLEMENT.: De la Reserve hereditaire des Enfants (Art. 913 du code civil). Etude
historique, philosophique et economique. Gand, Paris, 1894. xvii, 231 pp. 8vo.

216. DONALDSON, H. H.: Education of the Nervous System. Educ. Rev. (New York). Vol. IX. (1895),
pp. 105-121.

217. DORSET, J. O.: Games of the Teton-Dakota Children. Amer. Anthr. Vol. IV. (1891), pp. 329-345.

218. DRAGOMANO, M.: Slavonic Folk-Tales about the Sacrifice of One's Own Children. (Transl.
O. Wardrop). Journ. Anthr. Inst. (London). Vol. XXI. (1892), pp. 456-469.

219. DREYLING, G.: Die Ausdrucksweise der ubertriebenen Verkleinerung im altfranzosichen Karlepos.
Marburg, 1888.

220. DURINGSFELD, J. V., und O. V. REINSBERG-DURINGSFELD: Sprichworter sammlung. 6 Bde. (Das
Sprichwort als Kosmopolit. 3 Bde. Intern. Titulaturen. 2 Bde. Das Kind im Sprichwort). Leipzig,
1863-1864. 8vo.

221. EARLE, ALICE M.: Customs and Fashions in Old New England. [Chapter I., pp. 1-35, Child-Life.]
New York, 1893. iii, 387 pp. 8vo.

222. EASTMAN, C. A.: Recollections of Wild-Life. III. Games and Sports. St. Nicholas (New York).
Vol. XXI. (1893-4), pp. 306-308.

223. EELLS, M.: Twins among Indians of Puget Sound. Science (New York). Vol. XX. (1892), p. 192.

224. ELIOT, S.: Poetry for Children. Boston, [1879]. xii, 327 pp. Sm. 8vo.

225. ENFANT (L') chez les sauvages et chezles civilises. Revue Britannique, Nov., 1880.

226. FEWKES, J. W.: Dolls of the Tusayan Indians (Repr. fr. Intern. Arch. f. Ethnogr., VII.
Bd., 1894, pp. 45-73). Leiden, 1894. 30 pp. 4to. Five coloured plates.

226 a. FIELD, EUGENE: Love Songs of Childhood. Chicago, 1895.

227. FLETCHER, ALICE C.: Glimpses of Child-Life among the Omaha Indians. Journ. Amer. Folk-Lore.
Vol. I. (1888), pp. 115-123.

228. FLOWER, B. O.: Lust Fostered by Legislation. Arena (Boston). Vol. XI. (1895), pp. 167-175.

229. FLOWER, W. H.: Fashion in Deformity. London, 1881. 85 pp. 8vo.

230. FORD, R.: Ballads of Bairnhood. Selected and edited with notes by Robert Ford. Paisley,
1894. xix, 348 pp. 8vo.

231. FOSTER, MARY J. C.: The Kindergarten of the Church. New York, 1894. 227 pp. 8vo.

232. FRACASETTI, L.: I giovani nella vita pubblica. Conferenza. Udine, 1893.

233. FROEBEL, F.: Mother's Songs, Games, and Stories. Froebel. Mutter- und Kose-Lieder rendered
in English by Frances and Emily Lord. New and revised edition. London, 1890. xxxvi, 212 + 75
(music) pp. 8vo.

234. FURNIVALL, F. J.: Child-Marriages, Divorces, Ratifications, etc. In the Diocese of Chester,
A.D. 1561-6. Depositions in Trials in the Bishop's Court, Chester, concerning: 1. Child-Marriages,
Divorces, and Ratifications. 2. Trothplights. 3. Adulteries. 4. Affiliations. 5. Libels. 6.
Wills. 7. Miscellaneous Matters. 8. Clandestine Marriages. Also Entries from the Mayors' Books,
Chester, A.D. 1558-1600. Edited from the MS. written in court while the witnesses made their
depositions, and from the Mayors' Books. London, 1897 [1894]. lxxxviii, 256 pp. 8vo.

235. GAIDOZ, H.: Un vieux rite medical. Paris, 1892. ii, 85 pp. Sm. 8vo.

236. GAIDOZ, H.: Ransom by Weight. Am Ur-Quell. II. Bd. (1891), S. 39-42, 59-61, 74-75.

237. GAIDOZ, H., et M. PEKDRIZET: La Mesure du Cou. Melusine (Paris). Tome VI. (1893), No.
10. See also Amer. Anthr., VI. (1893), p. 408.

238. GARBINI, A.: Evoluzione della Voce nella Infanzia. Verona, 1892. 53 pp. 8vo.

239. GATSCHET, A. S.: A Mythic Tale of the Isleta Indians: The Race of the Antelope and the
Hawk around the Horizon. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. (Philadelphia). Vol. XXIX., pp. 208-218.

240. GESSMANN, G. W.: Die Kinderhand und ihre Bedeutung fur Erziehung und Berufswahl. Eine
physioguomische Studie. Berlin, 1894. 88 S. 8vo. 31 Abbild.

241. GILL, V. W.: Child-Birth Customs of the Loyalty Islands. Journ. Anthr. Inst. (London).
Vol. XIX. (1890), pp. 503-505.

242. GOMME, ALICE B.: Children's Singing Games with the Tunes to which they are sung. Collected
and edited by Alice B. Gomme. London and New Tork, 1894.

243. GOMME, ALICE B.: The International Games of England, Scotland, and Ireland, with Tunes,
Singing Rhymes, and Method of Playing according to the variants extant and recorded in different
parts of the Kingdom. Vol. I. According ... Nuts in May. London, 1894. xix, 453 pp. 8vo.

244. GORE, J. H.: The Go-Backs. Journ. Amer. Folk-Lore. Vol. V. (1892), pp. 107-109.

245. GRIFFIS, W. E.: Japanese Fairy World. Schenectady, N.Y., 1880. vii, 304 pp. 12mo.

246. [Chap. I., pp. 4-6, Birth; II., 7-10, The Child; III., 11-13, Baptism; IV., 14-20, Nursery;
V., 21-24, "Boy Code of Honour."]

247. GULL, F.: Kinderheimat in Liedern. Volksausgabe. Gutersloh, 1875. 225 S. 8vo.

247 a. HAAS,--A.: Das Kind im Glauben und Branch der Pommern. Am Ur-Quell. V. Bd. (1894), 179-180,
252-255, 278-279; VI., 22-24.

248. HABERLANDT, M.: Ueber tulapurusha der Inder. Mitt. d. anthr. Gesellsch. (Wien), n. F.
IX. Bd. (1889), S. 160-164.

249. HALE, HORATIO: The Origin of Languages and the Antiquity of Speaking Man. Cambridge, 1886
(Repr. fr. Proc. Am. Ass. Adv. Sci.). 47 pp. 8vo.

250. HALE, HORATIO: The Development of Language. Proc. Canad. Inst. (Toronto), 3 s. Vol. VI.
(1888), pp. 92-134.

251. HALE, HORATIO: Language as a Test of Mental Capacity. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada. Vol. IX.
(1891), Sect. II., pp. 77-112.

252. HALL, G. S.: The Contents of Children's Minds on Entering School. Pedag. Sem. Vol. I.
(1891), pp. 139-172.

252 a. HALL, G. S.: Children's Lies. Ibid., pp. 211-218.

253. HALL, G. S.: The Moral and Religious Training of Children and Adolescents. Ibid., pp. 196-210.

254. HALL, G. S.: Child-Study: The Basis of Exact Education. Forum (New York). Vol. XVI. (1893-4),
pp. 429-441.

255. HALL, G. S.: The Story of a Sand-Pile. Scribner's Mag. (New York). Vol. III. (1888), pp.
690-695.

256. HARQUEVAUX, E., et L. PELLETIER: 200 jeux d'enfants en plein air et a la maison. Paris, 1893.

257. HARRIS, W. T.: Eighth Annual Report of the Commissioner of Education, 1892. Industrial
Education. Washington, 1892. 707 pp. 8vo.

257 a. HARRISON, ELIZABETH: A Study of Child-Nature from the Kindergarten Standpoint. 3d. edition.
Chicago, 1891. 207 pp. 8vo.

258. HARTLAND, E. S.: The Science of Fairy Tales. An Inquiry into Fairy Mythology. London,
1891. viii, 372 pp. 8vo.

259. HARTMANN, B.: Die Analyse des kindlichen Gedankenkreises als die naturgemassige Grundlage
des ersten Schulunterrichts. Zweite verm. Aufl. Annaberg i. Erzgeb., 1890. 116 S.

260. HASKELL, ELLEN M.: Imitation in Children. Pedag. Sem. Vol. III. (1894-5), pp. 30-47.

261. HERVEY, T. K.: The Book of Christmas. Boston, 1888. vi, 356 pp.

262. HIGGINSON, T. W.: Concerning All of Us. New York, 1893. vi, 210 pp. 12mo. [Pp. 103-109,
"A Home Made Dialect."]

263. HOFLER, M.: Die Losung des Zungenbandchens. Am Ur-Quell. V. Bd. (1894), S. 191, 281.

264. HOYT, W. A.: The Love of Nature as the Root of Teaching and Learning the Sciences. Pedag.
Sem. Vol. III. (1894-5), pp. 61-86.

265. HUGHES, J. L.: The Educational Value of Play, and the Recent Play- Movement in Germany.
Edue. Rev. (New York). Vol. VIII., pp. 327-336.

266. HURLL, ESTELLE M.: Child-Life in Art. New York, 1894.

267. IM THURN, E. F.: Games of Guiana Indians. Timehri (Georgetown). Vol. III. (1889), pp. 270-307.

268. JOCELYN, E.: The Mother's Legacy to her Unborn Child. New York, 1894.

269. JOHNSON, G. E.: Education by Plays and Games. Pedag. Sem. Vol. III., pp. 97-133.

270. JOHNSON, J. H.: Rudimentary Society amongst Boys. Overl. Mo., 1883

271. JOHNSON, J. H.: Judicial Procedure amongst Boys. Ibid., 1884.

272. JOHNSON, J. H.: Rudimentary Society among Boys (J. H. Univ. Studies ... No. XI., 2d ser.).
Baltimore, 1884. 56pp. 8vo.

273. JOHNSON, J., Jr.: The Savagery of Boyhood. Pop. Sci. Mo. (New York). Vol. XXXI (1881),
pp. 796-800.

274. KALMANT, L.: Kinderschrecker und Kinderrauber im magyarischen Volksglauben. Ethnol. Mitt.
aus Ungarn (Buda-Pest). III. Bd. (1893), S. 188-193.

275. KEBER, A.: Zur Philosophie der Kindersprache. Gereimtes und Un-gereimtes. Zweite verm.
Aufl. Leipzig, 1890. 96 S. 8vo.

276. KIPLING, E.: The Jungle Book. New York, 1894. xvii, 303 pp. 8vo.

277. KISS, A.: Magyar gyermekjatek gyutemeny [Collection of Hungarian Children's Games, etc.].
Buda-Pest, 1891. viii, 518 pp. 8vo.

278. KLEINPAUL, R.: Menschenopfer und Ritualmorde. Leipzig, 1892. 80 S. 8vo.

279. KRAUSS, F. S.: Serbischer Zauber und Brauch Kinder halber. Am Ur-Quell. III. Bd. (1892).
S. 160-161, 276-279.

280. KRAUSS, F. S.: Haarschurgodschaft bei den Sudslaven (Sep. Abdr. aus: Intern. Arch. f.
Ethnog. VII. bd. S. 161-198). Leiden, 1894. 38 S. 48to.

281. KRAUSS, F. S.: Geheime Sprachweisen Am Ur-Quell. II. Bd. (1891). S. 21-23, 48-49, 65,
79-80; 98-99, 111-112, 127-128; 143-144, 187-189; III. Bd. (1892), 43-44, 106-107, 135-136,
167, 225-226, 328; IV. Bd. (1893), S. 76-78, 147; V. Bd. (1894), 74-78; VI. Bd. (1895), 37-40.

282. KEUSCHE, G.: Litteratur der weiblichen Eiziehung und Bildung in Deutschland von 1700 bis
1886. Langensalza, 1887. 43 S. 8vo.

283. KULISCHER, M.: Die Behandlung der Kinder und der Jugend auf den primitiven Kulturstufen.
Ztschr. f. Ethnol. (Berlin), 1883. S. 191-203.

283 a. KULISCHER, M.: Eine Geschichte des Umgangs mit Kindern [in Russian]. Sslowo, 1878, H. 11.

284. KUSTER, E.: Aberglaubisches aus Schlesien [Superstitions about Childhood, Birth, Death].
Am Urdhs-Brunnen. IV. Bd. (1886). S. 190-191.

285. LAIBLE, H.: Jesus Christus im Thalmud. Berlin, 1891. 122 S. 8vo.

286. LAILLEMAND, L.: Histoire des Enfants abandonnes et delaisses. Etudes sur la protection
de l'enfance aux diverses epoques de la civilisation. Paris, 1885. vii, 791 pp. 8vo.

287. LALLEMAND, L.: La question des Enfants abandonnes et delaisses au XIXieme Siecle. Paris,
1885. vi, 238 pp.

288. LANGE, HELENE: Higher Education of Women in Europe. New York, 1890. 186 pp. 8vo.

289. LAURIE, S. S.: Lectures on the Rise and Early Constitution of Universities, with a Survey
of Mediaval Education, A.D. 200-300. London, 1886. 293 pp. 8vo.

290-296. LAURIE, S. S.: The History of Early Education. [Several Articles in the School Review
(Ithaca, N. Y.), Vol. I. and II., 1893-1894, dealing with Egyptian, Semitic, Assyro-Babylonian,
Indo-Aryan. (Hindu, Persian, Medo-Persian), Hellenic and Roman Education].

297. LAURIE, S. S.: Historical Survey of Pre-Christian Education. New York, 1895.

298. LEIPZIGER, H. M.: The Education of the Jews (Educ. Monogr. Publ. by the N. Y. Coll. for
the Training of Teachers. Vol. III., No. 6. Nov., 1890). New York, 1890. 39pp. 8vo.

299. LETOURNEAU, M.: Les Mensurations du Cou en Bretagne et en Kabylie. Bull. Soc. d'Anthr.
(Paris). III^e serie. Tome XI. (1888), pp. 458-461, 472-473.

300. LOMBROSO, C.: The Man of Genius. London and New York, 1895. xvi, 370 pp.

301. LOMBROSO, PAOLA: Saggi di Psicologia del Bambino. Torino-Roma, 1894. xii, 284 pp. 12mo.

302. LUMMIS, C. F.: The Man who Married the Moon, and other Pueblo Indian Folk-Stories. New
York, 1894. x, 239 pp. 8vo.

303. MACDONALD, A.: Abnormal Man, being Essays on Education and Crime, and Related Subjects,
with Digests of Literature and a Bibliography (Bureau of Education, Circ. of Inform., No. 4,
1893). Washington, 1893. 445 pp. 8vo.

304. MAGNUS, LADY: The Boys of the Bible. London, 1894.

305. MARENHOLZ-BULOW, BARONESS: The Child and Child-Nature. 5th ed. London, 1890. x, 186 pp. 8vo.

306. MASON, O. T.: Cradles of the American Aborigines. Rep. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1886-87, pp. 161-212.

307. MAUPATE, L.: Recherches d'anthropologie criminelle chez l'enfant; criminalite et degenerescence.
Lyon, 1893. 228 pp. 8vo.

308. McLEAN, J. E.: Psychic View of Infant Prodigies. Metaphys. Rev. (New York). Vol. I. (1895),
pp. 156-164.

309. MEHNERT, A.: Bin indischer Kaspar Hauser. Eine Erzahlung aus dem anglo-indischen Volksleben.
Dresden-Leipzig, 1893. 108 S. Kl. 8vo.

310. MILES, CAROLINE: A Study of Individual Psychology. Amer. Journ. Psych. Vol. VI. (1895),
pp. 534-558.

311. MORENO, H. DE: La festa del natale in Sicilia. Palermo, 1893.

312. MOUTIER, A.: Contribution a l'etude de la protection de l'enfanee a Rome. Paris, 1884.

313. NEWELL, W. W.: Games and Songs of American Children. New York, 1884. xii, 242 pp. Sm. 4to.

314. NICOLAY, F.: Les enfants mal eleves. Paris, 1890.

315. ORTWEIN, F.: Deutsche Weihnachten. Der Weihnachtsfestkreis nach seiner Entstehung, seinen
Sitten und Brauchen deutscher Volker. Gotha, 1892. 133 S. 8vo.

316. OWENS, J. G.: Natal Ceremonies of the Hopi Indians. Journ. Amer. Ethn. and Arch. Vol.
II. (1892), pp. 161-175.

317. Papers Relating to Infant Marriage and Enforced Widowhood in India. Calcutta, 1886.

318. Pedagogical Seminary (The). An International Record of Educational Institutions, Literature
and Progress. Edited by G. Stanley Hall. Worcester, Mass. Vols. I.-III. (1891-1895).

319. PEREZ, B.: Le Caractere de l'Enfant a l'Homme. Paris, 1892.

320. PEREZ, B.: L'Art et la Poesie chez l'Enfant. Paris, 1888. 308 pp.

321. PITRE, G.: Usi e Credenze dei Fanciulli in Sicilia. Palermo, 1889. 16 pp. Sm. 8vo.

322. PITRE, G.: Mirabile facolta di alcune famiglie di guarire certe malattie. Palermo, 1889.
13 pp. Gr. 8vo.

323. PITRE, G.: Folk-lore giuridico dei Fanciulli in Sicilia. Palermo, 1890. 6 pp.

324. PITRE, G.: Il pesce d'Aprile. V. Ed. con moltiss. giunte. Palermo, 1891. 25 pp. Gr. 8vo.

325. PLOSS, H.: Das kleine Kind vom Tragbett bis zum ersten Schritt. Ueber das Legen, Tragen
und Wiegen, Gehen, Stehen und Sitzen der kleinen Kinder bei verschiedenen Volkern der Erde.
Leipzig, 1881. xii, 121 S. 8vo.

326. PLOSS, H.: Das Kind in Brauch und Sitte der Volker. Anthropologische Studien von Dr. H.
Ploss. Zweite, neu durchges. u. stark vermehrte Aufl. Neue Ausgabe. Leipzig, 1884. 2 Bd. x,
394; iv, 478 S. 8vo.

327. POKROVSKI, E. A.: Fizicheskoe vospitanie detei u. raznich narodov preimutshestvenno Rossii;
materiali dlja medico-antropologiche-skago izsledovanija [Physical Education of Children in
Different Nations, especially in Russia; materials for medico-anthropological Research]. Moskva,
1884. iv, 379 pp. Fol.

328. POKROVSKI, E. A.: Pervonachalnoe fizicheskoe vospitanie dietei (po-puljarnoe nukovodsto
dlja materei). [The Early Physical Education of Children (popular manual for mothers)]. Moskva,
1888. 261 pp. 8vo.

329. POKROVSKI, E. A.: Ob ucho die za malymi dietmi [on the care of little children]. Moskva,
1889. viii, 100 pp. 16mo.

330. POKROVSKI, E. A.: Detskija igry preimushestvenno russkija (V. svjazi s istorei, etnografei,
pedagogiei, i gigienoi) [Children's Games, especially Russian] (from an historical, pedagogical,
and hygienic point of view). Moskva, 1887. vi, 368 pp. 8vo.

331. PORTER, J. H.: Notes on the Artificial Deformation of Children among Savage and Civilized
Peoples. Rep. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1886-87, pp. 213-235.

332. POST, A. H.: Mittheilungen aus dem bremischen Volkleben [Zungenubungen]. Am Ur-Quell.
V. Bd. (1894). S. 176-179.

332a. PODLSSON, E.: Finger-Plays for Nursery and Kindergarten. Boston, 1893.

333. RAND, K. E.: The Childhood of an Affinity. New York, 1893. vi, 304 pp. 8vo.

334. RASSIER, M: Valeur du temoignage des enfants en justice. Lyons, 1893. 88 pp.

335. RAUBER, A.: Homo Sapiens Ferus oder die Zustande der Verwilderten in ihrer Bedeutung fur
Wissenschaft, Politik und Schule. Biolo-gische Untersuchung. Zweite Aufl. Leipzig, 1888. 134
S. 8vo.

336. RICCARDI, A.: Antropologia e Pedagogia. Introduzione ad una Scienza della Educazione (Osservazioni
psioologiche; ricerche statistiche; misure antropologiche, ecc.). Parte Prima. Osservazioni
psicologiche; ricerche statistiche e sociologiche. Modena, 1892. 172 pp. 4to.

336a. RILEY, J. W.: Rhymes of Childhood. Indianapolis, 1894. 186 pp. 8vo.

337. London and Neweastle-on-Tyne, 1886. xxxviii, 273 pp. 12mo.

337 a. ROBINSON, L.: The Primitive Child. N. Amer. Rev. (N. Y.), 1895. 338. ROMANES, G. J.:
Mental Evolution in Man. New York, 1883. 338 a. ROY, RAJ COOMAR: Child Marriage in India. N.
Amer. Rev., Oct., 1888, pp. 415-423.

339. [RUNKLE, K. B.]: A Collection for Christmas. The New Year. Easter. Boston, 1884. xii, 388 pp.

340. SAUBERT, DR.: Maikafer, Frau Holle's Bote. Am Urdhs-Brunnen. VI. Bd. (1888-1889). S. 22-24.

341. SCHALLENBERGER, MARGARET E.: A Study of Children's Rights as seen by themselves. Pedag.
Sem. Vol. III. (1894-1895), pp. 87-96. 342. SCHECHTER, S.: The Child in Jewish Literature.
Jewish Quarterly (London). Vol. II. (1889).

343. SCHELL, O.: Woher kommen die Kinder? Am Ur-Quell. IV. Bd. (1893), S. 224-226; V. Bd. (1894),
S. 80-81, 162, 254, 255, 287.

344. SCOTT, C. N.: The Child-God in Art. Contemp. Bev. (London). Vol. L. (1886), pp. 97-111.

345. SCRIPTURE, E. W.: Arithmetical Prodigies. Amer. Journ. Psychol. Vol. IV., pp. 1-59.

346. SCUDDER, H. M.: Childhood in Greek and Roman Literature. Atlantic Mo. (Boston). Vol. LV.,
pp. 13-23.

347. SCUDDER, H. M.: Childhood in Early Christianity. Ibid., pp. 617-625.

348. SCUDDER, H. M.: Childhood in Medieval Art. Ibid., LVI. (1885), pp. 24-31.

349. SCUDDER, H. M.: Childhood in English Literature and Art. Ibid., pp. 369-380, 471-484.

349 a. SCUDDER, H. M.: Childhood in Modern Literature and Art. Ibid., pp. 751-767.

350. SCUDDER, H. M.: Childhood in Literature and Art, with Some Observations on Literature
for Children, Boston, 1894. Cr. 8vo.

351. SESSIONS, F.: The Younger Son (Folk-Lore Topics, No. 5). Eepr. from Gloucester Journal,
March 3d, 1894. Gloucester (Engld.), 1894. 8 pp.

352. SESSIONS, F.: Beating the Bounds (Folk-Lore Topics, No. 4). Eepr. from G-loucester Journ.,
Feb. 17, 1894.

353. SHINN, MILLICENT W.: Some Comments on Babies [of Various Eaces]. Overt. Mo. (San Francisco).
Vol. XXIII (1894), pp. 2-19.

354. SOHNKEY, H.: Geburt und Taufe in der Gegend des Sollinger Waldes. Am Ur-Quell. II. Bd.
(1894), S. 197-202.

355. STARR, F.: A Page of Child-Lore.

356. STEEL, F. A., and E. C. TEMPLE: Wide Awake Stories. A Collection of Tales told by Little
Children between Sunset and Sunrise, in the Panjab and Kashmir. Bombay, 1884.

357. STEINMETZ, S. E.: De "Fosterage" of Opvoeding in Vreemde Families [Eepr. from Tijdschr.
v. Ji. Jconinkl. Nederl. Aardrijksk. Genootsch.]. Leiden, 1893. 92 pp. 8vo.

358. STEVENSON, Mrs. T. E.: The Religious Life of a ZnEi Child. Fifth Ann. Sep. Bur. of Ethnol.
(Washington), pp. 533-555.

359. STEVENSON, E. L.: A Child's Garden of Verse, 1885.

360. STORK, T.: The Children of the New Testament. Philadelphia, 1856. xi, 185 pp. 8vo.

361. STRACK, H. C.: Der Blutaberglaube in der Menschheit, Blutmorde und Blutritus. Vierte neu
bearb. Aufl. Mlinchen, 1892. xii, 156 S. 8vo.

361a. STRASZBURGER, B.: Geschichte der Erziehung und des Unterrichts bei dea Israeliten. Von
der vortalmudischen Zeit his auf die Gegenwart. Mit einem Anhang.: Bibliographie der judischen
Padagogie. Stuttgart, 1885. xv, 210 S.

362. STRETTELL, ALMA: Lullabies of Many Lands. New York, 1894.

363. STRONG, G. D.: Child-Life in Many Lands. Boston, 1870. iv, 210 pp. 8vo.

364. Studentensprache und Studentenlied in Halle von 100 Jahren. Neudruck des Idiotikon der
Burschensprache von 1795 und der Studentenlieder von 1781. Halle, 189-. xliii, 118 S.; viii, 127 S.

365. SULLY, J.: Studies of Childhood. [Numerous articles in Pop. Sei. Mo. (New York). Vols.
XLVI. and XLVII.].

366. SUNDERMANN, F.: Woher kommen die Kinder? Eine Beantwortung dieser Frage aus Ostfriesland.
Am Urdhs-Brunnen. I. Bd. (1881), Heft II., S. 14-18; Heft V., S. 14.

367. "SYLVANUS URBAN": Infant-Marriages. Gentlm. Mag. (Load.) Vol. 277 (1894), pp. 322-324,
427-428.

368. The Feeble-Minded Child and Adult. A Report on an Investigation of the Physical and Mental
Condition of 50,000 School Children, with Suggestions for the Better Education and Care of
Feeble-Minded Children and Adults. (Charity Organization). London, 1893. xii, 159 pp. 8vo.

369. The Epileptic and Crippled Child and Adult. London, 1893. xxi, 132 pp. 8vo.

370. TILTE, M.: Die Geschichte der deutschen Weihnacht. Leipzig, 1894.

371. TRACY, F.: The Psychology of Childhood. Sec. Ed. Boston, 1894. xiii, 107 pp. 8vo.

372. TREICHEL, A.: Provinzielle Sprache zu und von Thieren und ihre Namen. Alt-Preuss. Monatsschr.
XXIX. Bd., Hefte I., II.

373. TREICHEL, A.: Zungenubungen aus Preussen. Am Ur-Quell. V. Bd. (1894), S. 122-126, 144-148,
180-182, 222-224.

374. TUCKER, ELIZABETH S.: Children of Colonial Days. New York, 1894.

375. TUCKWELL, Mrs. G. M.: The State and its Children. London, 1894.

376. TYLOR E. B.: Wild Men and Beast Children. Anthrop. Rev. (London). Vol. I. (1863), pp. 21-32.

377. TYLOR, E. B.: Remarks on the Geographical Distribution of Games.

378. VOSTROVSKY, CLARA: A Study of Children's Imaginary Companions. Education (Boston). Vol.
XV. (1895), pp. 393-398.

379. WHITTIER, J. G.: Child-Life. A Collection of Poems. Edited by J. G. Whittier. Boston,
n.d. xii, 263 pp. Gr. 8vo.

380. WHITTIER, J. G.: Child-Life in Prose. Boston, n.d.

381. WIEDEMANN, A.: Kinderehe bei den alten AEgyptern. Am Ur-Quell. VI. Bd. (1895), S. 3-4.

382. WIGGIN, KATE D.: Children's Eights. A Book of Nursery Logic. Boston and New York, 1893.
235 pp. 16mo.

383. Wild Babies. Harper's Monthly (New York). Vol. LVII. (1878), pp. 829-838.

384. WILTSE, SARAH E.: The Place of the Story in Early Education, and Other Essays. Boston,
1892. vi, 137 pp. 8vo.

385. WINTERNITZ, M.: Das Kind bei den Juden. Am Ur-Quell. II. Bd. (1891), S. 5-7, 34-36.

386. WOSSIDLO, R.: Volksthumliches aus Mecklenburg. De Jung [Pro- verbial Sayings of Children].
Plattd. Sunndagsbl. (Bielefeld). III. Bd. (1890), S. 75-77.

387. YODER, A. H.: The Study of the Boyhood of Great Men. Pedag. Sem. Vol. III. (1894-5), pp.
134-156.

Following is a subject-index of titles under Section B:--

Abandoned children, 28. Abnormal man, 188, 197, 303. Adolescence, 196. Adoption, 280. Age of
consent, 180. American Indians, 211, 222, 223, 226, 227, 239, 267, 302, 306, 816, 358, 383.
Animals, 276, 372. Animal-reared children, 183, 376. "April fool," 324. Arabia, 289. Art and
poetry, 320. Assyria, 290.

Babylonia, 290. Birth-customs, etc., 241, 311, 316, 354. Birth-myths, 343, 366. Bogies, 203,
275. Boys of Bible, 304. Boyhood of genius, 387. Brittany, 299. Brooklyn, 212.

California, 184. Ceremonial, 235, 279, 361. Character, 216, 319. Child and race, 182. Child-god,
344. Child and state, 312, 375. Child as--witness, 334. Childhood in literature, 346-350. Child-criminal,
307. Child-life, 178, 180 a, 184, 189, 197, 209, 221, 225, 227, 246, 266, 283, 283 a, 325,
326, 329, 333, 342, 353, 363, 374, 383, 385. Child-marriages, 234, 317, 338 a, 367, 381. Child-psychology,
252, 259, 301, 305, 310, 336, 365, 371. Children of New Testament, 360. Child-study, 254, 378.
Chirography, 240. Christ, 285. Christmas, 190, 207, 261, 315, 339, 370. Cradles, 306.

Defectives and delinquents, 197, 314, 368, 369. Deformations, 229, 331. Diminutives, 202, 219.
Dolls, 226.

Education, 257, 288-298. Egypt, 179, 288, 381. England, 243, 349.

Fairy-tales, stories, 192, 245, 258, 302, 356, 384. Folk-lore, 246, 284, 321, 355. Fosterage,
357. France, 219.

Games and songs, 181, 186, 187, 198, 199, 212, 213, 217, 222, 233, 242, 243, 260, 265, 267,
269, 277, 313, 330, 332 a, 377. Genius, 178, 300, 387. Germany, 315, 354, 366, 370, 386. Girlhood,
178, 228, 282. Greece, 296-7, 346.

Hair-cutting, 280. Hygiene, 210, 330. Hungary, 277.

Imitation, 260. India, 183, 248, 290, 309. Infanticide, 218. Infant-prodigies, 304, 345. Insects,
340. Ireland, 243.

Japan, 180 a, 189, 245. Jews, 298, 342, 361 a, 385. Justice, 271, 323, 341.

Kabylia, 299. Kaspar Hauser, 208, 309.

Language, 193, 200, 201, 205, 206, 249, 250, 257, 262, 263, 275, 281, 332, 372, 373. Lies,
253. Loyalty Is., 241. Lullabies, 362.

Measurements, 237, 244, 299. Medicine, 322. Mental evolution, 182, 194, 211, 338. Miracles,
179. Morals, 179. Mother and child, 268.

Nature, 264. New England, 221. New York, 197.

Paris, 209. Persia, 291. Phoenicians, 290. Physical education, 327, 328. Physiognomy, 204.
Poetry for and about children, 176, 177, 195, 224, 226 a, 230, 247, 336a, 337, 359, 379. Proverbs,
220, 386. Public life, 232. Puberty, 214.

Regeneration, 214. Religion, 184 a, 231, 253, 358. Rights, 215, 382. Rome, 297, 312, 346. Russia,
327, 328, 330. Sacrifice, 218, 228, 278, Savagery, 273. Scotland, 243. Servia, 279. Secret
languages, 206, 281. Sicily, 321, 322, 323. Silesia, 284. Slavonic, 218, 280. Sociology, 270,
272, 255, 378. Stork, 198 a. Studentdom, 185, 364. Swallow, 198.

Twins, 223.

United States, 180.

Voice, 238.

Washington, D.C., 181. Weighing, 236, 238. Wild children, 335.

Younger son, 351.

C. GENERAL.

388. D'ALVIELLA, COUNT GOBLET: Lectures on the Origin and Growth of the Conception of God as
illustrated by Anthropology and History. (Hibbert Lectures, 1891.) London, 1892. xvi, 296 pp. 8vo.

389. American Anthropologist (Washington): Vols. I.-VIII. (1888-1895).

390. American Notes and Queries (Phila.) Vols. I.-VI. (1888-1891).

391. Am Urdhs-Brunnen (Dahrenwurth bei Lunden, Holstein). I.-VII. Bde. (1881-1890).

392. Am Ur-Quell (Lunden). I.-VI. Bde. (1890-1895). Continuation of No. 391.

393. ANDERSEN, HANS C.: Fairy Tales and Stories. (Transl. Dr. H. W. Dulcken). N.Y., n.d. iv,
377 pp. 8vo.

394. ASTON, W. G.: Japanese Onomatopes and the Origin of Language. Jour. Anthr. Inst. (London).
Vol. XXIII. (1894), pp. 332-362.

395. BAGEHOT, W.: Physics and Politics. New York, 1887.

396. BANCROFT, H. H.: The Native Races of the Pacific Coast. 5 vols. New York, 1874-1876. 8vo.

397. BARTELS, M.: Die Medicin der Naturvolker: Ethnologische Beitrage zur Urgeschichte der
Medicin. Leipzig, 1893. 361 S. 8vo.

398. BASTIAN, A.: Zur naturwissenschaftlichen Behandlungsweise der Psychologie durch und filr
die Volkerkunde. Berlin, 1883. xxxviii, 230 S. 8vo.

399. BASTIAN, A.: Die Seele indischer und hellenischer Philosophie in den Gespenstern moderner
Geisterscherei. Berlin, 1886. xlviii, 223 S. 8vo.

400. BEKGEN, FANNY D.: Popular American Plant-Names. Jour. Amer. Folk-Lore. Vol. V. (1872),
pp. 88-106; VI. (1893), pp. 135-142; VII. (1894), pp. 89-104.

401. BLACK, W. G.: Folk-Medicine: A Chapter in the History of Culture. London, 1883. iii, 228
pp. 8vo.

402. BOAS, F.: The Central Eskimo. Sixth Ann. Hep. Bur. Ethnol. (Washington), pp. 399-669.

403. BOAS, F.: British Association for the Advancement of Science. Neweastle-upon-Tyne Meeting,
1889. Fifth Report of the Committee appointed for the purpose of investigating and publishing
Reports on the Physical Characters, Languages, and Industrial and Social Condition of the North-Western
Tribes of the Dominion of Canada. First General Report on the Indians of British Columbia.
By Dr. Franz Boas. London, 1889. 104 pp. 8vo.

404. 163 pp. 8vo.

405. BOAS, F.: Seventh Report, etc. London, 1891. 43 pp. 8vo.

405 a. BOLTON, T. L.: Rhythm. Amer. Jour. Psychol. Vol. VI., pp. 145-238.

406. BOURKE, J. G.: The Medicine-Men of the Apaches. Ninth, Ann. Rep. Bur. of Ethnol. (1887-88).
Washington, 1892 [1893]. pp. 443-603.

407. BOURKE, J. G.: Popular Medicine, Customs and Superstitions of the Rio Grande. Jour. Amer.
Folk-Lore. Vol. VII. (1894), pp. 119-146.

408. BRAND, J.: Observations on the Popular Antiquities of Great Britain. Ed. Sir H. Ellis.
3 vols. London, 1882-1888.

409. 2d ed. New York, 1876. 331 pp. 8vo.

410. BRINTON, D. G.: American Hero-Myths. A Study in the Native Religions of the Western Continent.
Philadelphia, 1882. 261 pp. 8vo.

411. BRINTON, D. G.: Essays of an Americanist. Philadelphia, 1890. 489 pp. 8vo.

412. BRINTON, D. G.: The American Race. A Linguistic Classification and Description of the
Native Tribes of North and South America. New York, 1891. 392 pp. 8vo.

413. BRINTON, D. G.: Nagualism. A Study in Native American Folk-Lore and History. Philadelphia,
1894. 65 pp. 8vo.

414. BKINTON, D. G.: Ancient Nahuatl Poetry. Philadelphia, 1887. viii, 9-177 pp. 8vo.

415. BUSK, R. H.: The Folk-Lore of Rome. London, 1874.

416. BUSK, R. H.: The Valleys of Tirol, Their Traditions, etc. London, 1869.

417. CALLAWAY, Rev. Canon: Religious System of the Amazulu. London, 1870. viii, 448 pp. 8vo.

418. CHAMBERLAIN, A. F.: The Prehistoric Naturalist. University Quarterly Rev. (Toronto). Vol.
I. (1890), pp. 179-197.

419. CHAMBERLAIN, A. F.: Nanibozhu among the Otchipwe, Mississagas, and other Algonkian Tribes.

420. CLARK, W. P.: The Indian Sign-Language, etc. Philadelphia, 1885. 443 pp. 8vo.

421. CLODD, E.: The Childhood of Religions. New York, 1883. 5lpp. 8vo.

422. CLOUSTON, W. A.: Popular Tales and Fictions; Their Migrations and Transformations. 2 vols.
London, 1887. xvii, 485; vii, 515 pp. 8vo.

423. CRAWFORD, J. M.: The Kalevala. New York, 1888. 2 vols. 8vo.

423 a. CULIN, S.: Notes of Palmistry in China and Japan. Overl. Mo., 1894. pp. 476-480.

424. CUSHING, F. H.: Zuni Fetiches. Sec. Ann. Rep. Bur. of Ethnol. (1880-81), Washington, 1883,
pp. 3-45.

425. DAWSON, G. M.: Notes on the Shushwap People of British Columbia. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada,
1891, Sect. II., pp. 3-44.

426. DAY, LAL BEHARI: Folk-Tales of Bengal. London, 1889. VII., 284 pp. 8vo.

427. DE GUBERNATIS, A.: Zoological Mythology, or the Legends of Animals. 2 vols. London, 1872.
xxvii, 432; viii, 442 pp. 8vo.

428. DE GUBERNATIS, A.: La Mythologie des Plantes, ou Legendes du Regne Vegetal. Paris. Tome
I., 1878; Tome II., 1882.

429. DAVIDS, W. R.: Buddhist Birth-Stories (Ed. Fausboll). London, 18--.

430. Dialect Notes (Amer. Dialect Soc.). Cambridge, Mass., 1890-1894. Parts I.-VII., pp. 1-355.

431. DIRKSEN, C.: Ostfriesische Sprichworter und sprichwortliche Redensarten mit historischen
und sprachlichen Amnerkungen. I. Heft (Zweite Aufl). Ruhrort, 1889. 109 S. 8vo.; II. Heft.
Ruhrort, 1891. 95 S. 8vo.

432. DODGE, R. I.: Our Wild Indians. Hartford, Conn., 1890. xxxix, 653 pp. 8vo.

433. DORSET, J. O.: A Study of Siouan Cults. Eleventh Ann. Rep. Bur. of Ethnol. (1889-90).
Washington, 1894. pp. 351-544.

434. DOUGLAS, R. K.: Confucianism and Taouism. London (S. P. C. K.), n.d. 287 pp. 12mo.

435. DYER, T. F. T.: The Folk-Lore of Plants. New York, 1889. 328 pp. 8vo.

436. DYER, T. F. T.: Church-Lore Gleanings. London, 1891. vi, 352pp. 8vo.

437. EELLS, REV. M.: The Twana Indians of the Skokomish Reservation in Washington Territory.
Bull. U. S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv, of Territ. III. (1877), pp. 57-114.

438. Their Religion, Manners, Customs, Laws, Language, etc. London, 1887. vii, 343 pp. 8vo.

439. ELLIS, HAVELOCK: The Criminal. London, 1890. viii, 337 pp. 8vo.

440. EMERSON, ELLEN R.: Indian Myths, or Legends, Traditions, and Symbols of the Aborigines
of America, compared with those of other Countries. Boston, 1884. xviii, 667 pp. 8vo.

441. ERMAN, A.: Aegypten und aegyptisches Leben im Altertum. 2 Bde. Tubingen, 1885. xvi, 350
S.; viii, 351-742 S. Kl. 4to.

442. FARRAR, F. W.: The Life of Christ as Represented in Art. New York, 1894.

443. FEWKES, J. W.: A Summer Ceremonial at the Tusayan Pueblos. Journ. Amer. Arch, and Ethnol.
I. (1891), pp. 1-62; II. (1892), pp. 1-160.

444. FEWKES, J. W.: The Na-ac-nai-ya: A Tusayan Initiation Ceremony. Journ. Amer. folk-Lore.
Vol. V. (1892), pp. 189-221.

445. FLETCHEE, ALICE C.: Indian Songs. Personal Studies of Indian Life. Century (New York).
Vol. XLVII. (1893-4), pp. 421-431.

446. FLETCHER, ALICE C.: A Study of Omaha Music, etc. Archoeol. and Ethnol. Papers of Peab.
Mus. (Cambridge, Mass.). Vol. L, No. 5, 1893, pp. vi, 152. 8vo.

447. FLETCHEE, R.: Myths of the Robin Redbreast in Early English Poetry. Amer. Anthrop. Vol.
II. (1889), pp. 97-118.

448. FOLKARD, RICHARD, JR.: Plant Lore, Legends, and Lyrics, embracing the Myths, Traditions,
Superstitions, and Folk-Lore of the Plantkingdom. London, 1884. xxiv, 610 pp. 8vo.

449. Folk-Lore Journal (London). Vol. VII. (1889).

450. FRAZER, J. G.: The Golden Bough. A Study in Comparative Religion. 2 vols. London and New
York, 1890.

451. FRAZER, J. G.: Totemism. Edinburgh, 1887. viii, 96 pp.

451 a. FRAZER, J. G.: Primitive Theories of the Soul. Journ. Anthr. Inst. (London). Vol. XV.
pp. 64-104.

452. FREYTAG, L.: Pflanzen-Aberglauben in den Alpen. Am Urdhs- Brunnen, 1888-9. S. 33-41, 49-52.

453. FRIEND, H.: Flowers and Flower-Lore. 2 vols. London, 1884. xvi, 352, 353-704 pp. 8vo.

454. FRISCHBIER, H.: Volksglauben aus Preussen. I. Kindheit. Am Urquell. I. Bd. (1890), S.
132-134, 151-152, 164-165.

455. GATSCHET, A. S.: The Klamath Indians of South-Western Oregon (Dept. of Int. U. S. Geogr.
and Geol. Surv., etc.). (Contrib. to North Amer. Ethnol. Vol. II., Washington, 1890.) Pt. I.,
cvi, 711 pp.; Pt. II., 711 pp. 4to.

456. GATSCHET, A. S.: The Karankawa Indians. (Arch, and Ethnol. Papers, Peab. Mus., Vol. I.,
No. 2). Cambridge, Mass., 1891. viii, 9-103 pp. 8vo.

456 a. GERBER, A.: Great Russian Animal Tales. Public Mod. Lang. Assoc. Amer. Vol. VI. (1891),
No. 2.

457. GIBBS, G.: Tribes of Western Washington and Northwestern Oregon. Contrib. to North Amer.
Ethnol. (U. S. Geogr. and Geol. Surv., etc.). Vol. I. (1877), pp. 157-361.

458. GILL, W. W.: Myths and Songs of the South Pacific. London, 1876. xxiv, 328 pp. 8vo.

459. GILL, W. W.: The South Pacific and New Guinea, Past and Present. Sydney (N. S. W. Govt.),
1892. 38 pp. 8vo.

460. GOMME, G. L.: Ethnology in Folk-Lore. New York, 1892. vii, 203 pp.

461. GOMME, G. L.: The Village Community. London, 1890. xi, 299 pp.

462. GRIMM, J.: Teutonic Mythology. Transl. J. S. Stallybrass. 4 vols. London, 1880-1888.

463. GRIMM, GEBR.: Kinder- und Haus-Marchen gesammelt durch die Gebr. Grimm, Stuttgart-Wien.
189-. v, 466. S. 4to.

464. GRINNELL, G. B.: Blackfoot Lodge Tales. The Story of a Prairie People. New York, 1892.
xv, 310 pp. 8vo.

465. GRINNELL, G. B.: Pawnee Hero-Stories and Folk-Tales, with Notes on the Origin, Customs,
and Character of the Pawnee People. New York, 1889. Cr. 8vo.

466. GUPPY, H. B.: The Solomon Islands and their Natives. London, 1887. xvi, 384 pp. 8vo.

466 a. HAAS, A.: Rugensche Sagen und Marchen. Greifswald, 1891.

467. HALE, HORATIO: The Aryans in Science and History. Pop. Sci. Mo. (New York), March, 1889,
pp. 677-686.

468. HARLEY, T.: Moon-Lore. London, 1885. xvi, 296 pp. 8vo.

469. New ed. London, 1879. xviii, 391 pp. 8vo.

470. HENNE AM RHYN, O.: Die Kultur der Vergangenheit, Gegenwart und Zukunft in vergleichender
Darstellung. 2 Bde. Danzig-Leipzig-Wien, 1890.

471. HITCHCOCK, E.: The Ainos of Yesso, Japan. Rep. U. S. Nat. Mus. (Washington), 1890. pp.
429-502.

472. HOFLEH, M.: Wald--und Baumkultus in Beziehung zur Volksmedizin. Munohen, 1892. viii, 170
S. 8vo.

473. HOFFMAN, W. J.: The Mide'wiwin, or "Grand Medicine Society" of the Ojibwa. Seventh Ann.
Rep. Bur. of Ethnol. (1885-86), Washington, 1891, pp. 143-300.

474. HOPF, L.: Thierorakel und Orakelthiere in alter und neuer Zeit. Eine ethnol.-zool. Studie.
Stuttgart, 1888. xi, 271 S. 8vo.

475. HOSE, C. A.: Journey up the Baranu River to Mount Dulit and the Highlands of Borneo. Geogr.
Journ. (London), Vol. I. (1893), pp. 193-208.

476. IHERING, J. VON: Die kunstliche Deformirung der Zahne. Ztschr. f. Ethnol. XIV. Bd. (1882),
S. 213-262.

477. IM THURN, E. F.: Among the Indians of Guiana. London, 1883. xvi, 445 pp. 8vo.

478. IRVING, J. T.: Indian Sketches. New York and London, 1888.

479. JOEST, W.: Tatowiren, Narbenzeichnen und Korperbemalung. Ein Beitrag zur vergleichenden
Ethnologic. Berlin, 1890. x, 112 S.

480. Journal of American Folk-Lore (Cambridge, Mass.). Vols. I.-VIII. (1888-1895).

481. Journal of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (London). Vols.
I.-XXIV. (1872-1895).

482. KLEMM, G.: Allgemeine Culturgeschichte der Menschheit. 10 Bde. Leipzig, 1843-52.

483. KOHLER, C. S.: Das Thierleben im Sprichwort der Griechen und Romer. Nach Quellen und Stellen
in Parallele mit den deutschen Sprichwortern. Leipzig, 1881.

484. LANG, A.: Custom and Myth. 2d ed. London, 1885. 312 pp. 8vo.

485. LANG, A.: Myth, Ritual, and Religion. 2 vols. London, 1887. xvi, 340; vii, 370 pp. 8vo.

486. LEFEVRE, A.: Mythologie du monde mineral; lecon professee a I'ecole d'anthropologie. Rev.
de Trad. Pop. Nov. 1889.

487. LEGGE, J.: The Life and Works of Mencius. Philadelphia, 1875. vii, 402 pp. 8vo.

488. LELAND, C. G.: The Algonquin Legends of New England. 2d ed. Boston, 1885. xviii, 379 pp. 8vo.

489. LETOURNEAU, CH.: The Origin of Literary Form. Pop. Sci. Mo. (New York). Vol. XLIII. (1893),
pp. 673-682.

490. LETOURNEAU, CH.: L'Evolution Litteraire dans les diverses Races humaines. Paris, 1894.
582 pp. 8vo.

491. LETOURNEAU, CH.: L'Evolution Religieuse dans les diverses Races humaines. Paris, 1892.

492. LIPPERT, J.: Die Religionen der europaischen Kulturvolker, der Litauer, Slaven, Germanen,
Griechen und Romer, in ihrem geschichtlichen Ursprunge. Berlin, 1881. xvi, 496 S. 8vo.

493. LIPPERT, J.: Allgemeine Geschichte des Priestertums. 2 Bde. Berlin, 1884

494. LUBBOCK, J.: The Pleasures of Life. Philadelphia, 1894. xiv, 332 pp. 12mo.

495. LUMHOLTZ, C.: Among Cannibals. London, 1889. 395 pp. 8vo.

496. MACCAULEY, C.: The Seminole Indians of Florida. Fifth Ann. Rep. Bur. of Ethnol. (Washington),
pp. 469-535.

496 a. MACKAY, CHARLES: Memoirs of Extraordinary Popular Delusions. 3 vols. London, 1841.

497. MACKENZIE, A.: Descriptive Notes on Certain Implements, Weapons, etc., from Graham Island,
Queen Charlotte Islands, B.C. Trans. Hoy. Soo. Canada, 1891, Sect. II., pp. 45-59.

497a. MALLERY, G.: Sign-Language among North American Indians compared with that among other
Peoples and Deaf Mutes. First Ann. Sep. Bur. Ethnol. (1879-80). Washington, 1881. pp. 263-552.

498. MANN, H.: On the Aboriginal Inhabitants of the Andaman Islands. London, 1884. xxviii,
224, and 73 pp. 8vo.

499. MANTEGAZZA, P.: Physiognomy and Expression. London, 1890. x, 327 pp. 8vo.

500. MARTINENGO-CESARESCO, COUNTESS E.: Essays in the Study of Folk-Song. London, 1886. 8vo.

501. MATTHEWS, W.: The Human Bones of the Hemenway Collection in the U. S. Army Medical Museum
at Washington. Nat. Acad. of Sci., Vol. VI., Seventh Memoir, pp. 139-286.

502-503. McGEE, W. J.: The Earth the Home of Man (Anthrop. Soc. of Washington, Special Papers,
No. 2). Washington, 1894. 28pp. 8vo.

504. MIKHAILOVSKII, V. M.: Shamanism in Siberia and European Russia.

505. MONTEIRO MARIANA: Legends and Popular Tales of the Basque People. New York, 1887. vii,
274 pp. 8vo.

506. MOONEY, J.: Myths of the Cherokees. Jour. Amer. Folk-Lore. Vol. I. (1888), pp. 97-108.

507. MOONEY, J.: Sacred Formulas of the Cherokees. Seventh Ann. Sep. Bur. of Ethnol. (Washington,
1891.) pp. 306-395.

508. MULLENHOFF, K.: Sagen, Marchen und Lieder der Herzogthumer Schleswig-Holstein und Lauenburg.
Kiel, 1845. 8vo.

509. MULLER, J. G.: Geschichte der amerikanischen Urreligionen. Basel, 1867. viii, 706 S. 8vo.

510. MULLER, F. MAX: Natural Religion (Gifford Lectures, 1888). London, 1889. six, 608 pp. 8vo.

511. MULLER, F. MAX: Anthropological Religion. London, 1892. 486 pp. 8vo.

512. MULLER, F. MAX: Physical Religion. London, 1891.

513. MULLER, F. MAX: Theosophical Religion. London, 1892.

514-515. MURDOCH, J.: Ethnological Results of the Point Barrow Expedition. Ninth Ann. Sep.
Bur. Ethnol., pp. 3-441.

516. NELSON, W.: The Indians of New Jersey. Paterson, N.J., 1894 168 pp. 8vo.

517. POLLE, F.: Wie denkt das Volk fiber die Sprache? Leipzig, 1889.

518. Popular Science Monthly (The). New York. Vols. I.-XLVI. (1871- 1895).

519. POWERS, S.: Tribes of California (Contrib. to North Amer. Ethnol., Vol. III.). Washington,
1877. 635 pp. 4to.

520. RALSTON, W. R.: Russian Folk-Tales. New York, 1873. 388 pp. 8vo.

521. RAND, S. T.: Legends of the Micmaos. New York and London, 1894. xlvi, 452 pp. 8vo.

522. RAU, C.: Von Martius on Some Points of South American Ethnology. Journ. Anthrop. Inst.
(New York). Vol. I. (1871-72), pp. 43-46.

523. RECLUS, E.: Primitive Folk. Studies in Comparative Ethnology. London, 1890. xiv, 339 pp. 8vo.

524. RIGGS, S. R.: Dakota Grammar, Texts, and Ethnography (Contrib. to North Amer. Ethnol.,
Vol. IX.). Washington, 1893. 239pp. 4to.

525. RINK, H.: Tales and Traditions of the Eskimo. London, 1874. xiii, 472 pp. 8vo.

526. ROLLAND, E.: Faune Populaire de la France. 6 vols. Paris, 1877- 1883.

527. ROSKOFF, G.: Das Religionswesen der rohesten Naturvolker. Leipzig, 1880. xiv, 179 S. 8vo.

528. SARTORI, P.: Sondersprachen. Am Ur-Quell. V. Bd. (1894), S. 72-78, 99-100.

529. SCHULTZE, F.: Fetichism. A Contribution to Anthropology and the History of Religion. Trans.
J. Fitzgerald. New York, 1885. 112 pp. 8vo.

530. SCHURTZ, H.: Grundzuge einer Philosophic der Tracht. Stuttgart, 1891, 148 S. 8vo.

531. SESSIONS, F.: Three Epics of Heroes (Folk-Lore Topics, No. 1). Repr. from Gloucester (England)
Journal, Jan. 6, 1894. 8 pp.

532. SIMROOK, K.: Deutsche Mythologie. Sechste durchgeseh. Aufl. Bonn, 1887. xii, 643 S. 8vo.

533. SIMSON, A..Notes on the Jivaros and Canelos Indians. Journ. Anthr. Inst. (London), 1879,
pp. 385-394.

534. SMITH, MRS. E. A.: Myths of the Iroquois. Sec. Ann. Rep. Bur. of Ethn. (1880-81), Washington,
1883, pp. 47-116.

535. SMITH, W. R.: Lectures on the Religion of the Semites. First Series. Fundamental Institutions.
New York, 1889. xii, 488 pp. 8vo.

536. STEINEN, K. v. DEN: Unter den Naturvolkern Zentral-Brasiliens. Berlin, 1894.

537. STEINMETZ, S. R.: Ethnologische Studien zur ersten Entwickelung der Strafe, nebst einer
psychologischen Abhandlung uber Grausamkeit und Rachsucht. 2 Bde. Leiden, 1894. xiv, 486; vii,
425 S. Gr. 8vo.

538. STEVENSON, MATILDA C.: The Sia. Eleventh Ann. Rep. Bur. of Ethnol., pp. 3-157.

539. SWAINSON, C.: The Folk-Lore and Provincial Names of British Birds. London, 1886. viii,
243 pp. 8vo.

540. SYMONDS, J. A.: Popular Songs of Tuscany. Fortn. Rev. (London). Vol. XX. (1873), pp. 596-613.

541. TARDE, G.: Les lois de l'Imitation. Etude Sociologique. Paris, 1890. viii, 431 pp. 8vo.

542. TEMPLE, R. C.: The Legends of the Panjab. 2 vols. London, n.d. xxvii, 546; xxii, 580 pp. 8vo.

543. THEAL, G. McC.: Kaffir Folk-Tales. London, 1886. xii, 226 pp. 8vo.

544. TURNER, L. M. Ethnology of the Ungava District, Hudson Bay Territory. Eleventh Ann. Rep.
Bur. of Ethnol. (Washington), pp. 159-350.

545. TYLOR, E. B.: Primitive Culture. Researches into the Development of Mythology, Philosophy,
Religion, Language, Art, and Custom. Third Amer. ed., 2 vols. New York, 1878.

545 a. VANCE, L. J.: The Meaning of Folk-Dance. Open Court (Chicago). Vol. VIII. (1894), pp.
4069-4070.

546. WALLASCHEK, R.: Primitive Music. London, 1893. xi, 326 + 8 pp. 8vo.

547. WEIL, G.: The Bible, the Koran, and the Talmud; or Biblical Legends of the Mussulmans.
New York, 1846. xvi, 264 pp. 8vo.

548. YARROW, H. C.: Introduction to the Study of Mortuary Customs among the North American
Indians. Washington, 1880. ix, 114 pp. 4to.

549. YARROW, H. C.: A Further Contribution to the Study of the Mortuary Customs of the North
American Indians. First Ann. Rep. Bur. of Ethnol. (1879-1880), Washington, 1881, pp. 87-203.

INDEX I.

AUTHORITIES AND WRITERS CITED OR REFERRED TO.

Aber. Adams. Addy. Aeschylus. Alcibiades. D'Alviella. Amelineau. American Anthropologist. American
Notes and Queries. Am Urdhs-Srunnen. Am Ur-Quell. Andersen. Andran. Angas. Anstey. Apocrypha.
Apuleius. Arabian Nights. Arena. Aristotle. Arnim (v.). Aston. Auerbach. D'Aunoy.

Bachofen. Bacon. Baegert. Bagehot. Ball. Ballou. Bancroft. Barbosa. Baring-Gould. Barrie. Barrington.
Bartels. Bastian. Baumbach. Beauchamp. Beckler. Beecher. Beethoven. Bergen. Berendt. Bible.
Black. Blake. Boas. Bodin. Boceder. Boileau. Bolton (H. C.). Bolton (T. L.). Bosman. Bourke.
Brainerd. Bramhall. Brand. Brewer (J. C.). Brewer (W. H.). Bridges. Bridgman. Brinton. Brown.
Browning (E. B.). Browning (R.). Buddha. Burchard. Burns. Burton. Buschmann. Busk. Byron.

Calderon. Callaway. Carlyle. Carove. Carstens. Carstensen. Castren. Catholic World. Catlin.
Cato. Catullus. G. F. P. Celsus. Century Dictionary. Century Magazine. Champlain. Chamberlain
(A. F.). Chamberlain (B. H.). Chamisso. Chantimpre (de). Chapman. Chatelain. Chaucer. Cherubina.
Cherubini. Chervin. Chrisman. Cicero. Clark. Clemens. Cleveland. Clodd. Clot-Bey. Clouston.
Codriugton. Coleridge (H.). Coleridge (S. T.). Collins. Confucius. Connor. Constantine. Cornelia.
Cowper. Crashaw. Crawford. Culin. Cuoq. Current Literature. Cushing. Czaky.

Daniels. Danneil. Dante. Dargun. Darmesteter (Mrs.). Darwin (C.). Darwin (E.). David. Dawson.
Day. De Gubernatis. De Meung. Deneus. De Quincey. Desaivre. De Vere. Dialect Notes. Dickens.
Dio Cassius. Diocletian. Dirksen. Disraeli. Doddridge. Dodge. Donaldson. Dorsey. Douglas. Dreyling.
Drummoud. Dryden. Duncan. Du Vair. Dyer.

Earle. Earwaker. Eastman. Ebers. Eells. Eibler. Eichhorn. Ellis (A. B.). Ellis (H.). Ellis
(W.). Emerson (Mrs. E. E.). Emerson (R. W.). Engelhus. Engels. Eotvos. Epictetus. Erman. Estienne.
Euripides. Eyre.

Falkner. Farrar. Fay. Feilberg. Fenelon. Ferguson. Feuerbach. Fewkes. Fischer, 20. Fletcher
(Miss A. C.). Fleteher (R.). Folk-Lore Journal. Folkard. Ford. Franck. Frankel. Franklin. Fraser.
Frazer. Friend. Froebel. Fruit. Fuller. Furnivall.

Gaidoz. Garbe. Garnett. Gatsehet. Gerarde. Gibbs. Gill. Girard-Teulon. Gladstone. Goethe. Goltz.
Goldsmith. Gomme (Miss A.). Gomme (L.). Gore. Gould. Gray. Gregoire. Gregor. Griffis. Grimm
(J.). Grinnell. Groth. Guerin. Guppy.

Haas. Haberlandt. Hale. Haliburton. Hall (Bishop). Hall (G. S.). Halleck. Handel. Hanoteau.
Han Wan-Rung. Hare. Harley. Harrison. Hartland. Hartmann von Aue. Haskell. Hawthorne. Hazlitt.
Held (v.). Henderson. Henne am Rhyn. Heraclitus. Herbert. Herder. Herodotus. Herrick. Hesso.
Heywood. Hiawatha. Higginson. Hitopadesa. Hofler. Hoffman. Holmes. Holty. Homer. Hopf. Horace.
Hose. Howitt. Hubner. Hughes. Hugo. Humphrey. Hun. Hunt.

Immermann. Im Thurn. Irving. Isaiah.

Jean Paul (Richter). Jesus. Job. Joel. Johnson (G. E.). Johnson (J. H.). Johnson (S.). Journal
of American. Folk-Lore. Journ. of Anthrop. Inst. Joubert. Justinian. Juvenal.

Kane. Kant. Keble. Klemm. Kluge. Knortz. Koran. Krauss. Kulischer. La Bruyere. Lacretelle.
Laflteau. Lallemand. Lander. Landor. Lang. Langdale. La Rochefoucauld. Lebbe. Legge. Leland.
Le Play. Lescarbot. Lessing. Letourneau. Lippert. Livy. Locke. Lombroso (C.). Lombroso (P.).
Longstaff. Longfellow. Lope de Vega. Loubens. Lowell. Lubben. Lubbock. Luke, (St.). Lumholtz.
Lummis. Luther. Lycurgus. Lytton.

Maaler. Macaulay. MacCauley. Macdonald. MacKay. Mackenzie. Maclean. Macmillan's Magazine. Madden.
Mahomet. Mahoudeau. Maikhallovskii. Maine. Mallery. Man. Manouvrier. Mantegazza. Manu. Marco
Polo. Martinengo-Cesaresco. Martins (v.). Marvell. Mason. Matthew (St.). Matthews. Maundeville.
Maximus. McGee. McLennan. Menander. Mercer. Metastasio. Meung (de). Meyer. Michelet. Miklucho-Maclay.
Miles. Miller (J.). Miller (W.). Milman. Milton. Mirabeau. Moisset. Mommsen. Mone. Montaigne.
Monteiro. Montesinos. Mooney. Morgan. Morley. Mozart. Mullenhoff. Muller (F. Max). Muller (J.
G.). Murdoch.

Napoleon. Nelson. Newell. Niebuhr. Norton. Novalis.

Opitz. Orientalist. Ortwein. Ossian. Ovid.

Paul (St.). Pechuel-Loesche. Peckham. Penn. Percival. Perdrizet. Perrault. Peschel. Petronius
Arbiter. Pfeffel. Phaedrus. Philo. Philosophical Magazine. Pindar. Pistorius. Pitre'. Plato.
Pliny (Elder). Pliny (Younger). Ploss. Plutarch. Pokrovski. Polle. Polydore Virgil. Pope. Popular
Science Monthly. Porter. Post. Pott. Powell. Powers. Praed. Preyer. Procopius. Proctor. Psychological
Review. Public Opinion. Puttenham. Pythagoras.

Quarterly Review.

Rabelais. Rademacher. Raghuvansa. Ralston. Rameses. Rand. Rau. Rauber. Reclus. Riccardi. Ricnter
(see Jean Paul). Riggs. Rink. Robinson. Rockhill. Romanes. Roscommon. Rousseau. Ruckert. Ruskin.
Russell.

Sangermano. Sartori. Scaliger. Schallenberger. Schambaeh. Schell. Schiller. Schlagintweit.
Schlegel. Schomburgk. Schopenhauer. Schottel. Schultze. Schurtz. Scott (C. N.). Scott (W.).
Scudder. Sebillot. Sembrzycki. Sessions. Shakespeare. Shelley. Shenstone. Shirley. Sibree.
Sidney. Simons. Simrock. Simson. Skeat. Sleeman. Smith (E.). Smith (J.). Smith (R.). Smith
(S. F.). Socrates. Soest (v.). Solomon. Solon. Sophocles. Southey. Spencer. Spenser. Spurgeon.
Squier. Stanton. Starr. Stead. Steel. Steineu (v. den). Stevenson. St. Francis. Stoddard. St.
Pierre. Strack. Strype. Sully. Sundermann. Svetchin. Swainson. Sweeny. Swinburne (A. C.). Swinburne
(Judge). "Sylvanus Urban." Symonds.

Tacitus. Talmud. Tarde. Tasso. Temple. Tennyson. Terence. Thales. Theal. Theocritus. Thiele.
Thom. Thomson. Thoreau. Tillaux. Tilte. Tigri. Tobler. Toldoth Jesu. Tora. Tracy. Treichel.
Trumbull (H. C.). Turner. Turner (G.). Turner (L. N.). Tylor.

Uhland. Valentinian. Valerius. Vambery. Vance. Vaughan. Vedas. Vere (de). Verney. Virgil. Vogelweide.
Volliner. Vossius.

Wallace. Wallaschek. Warton. Warren. Watson. Weber. Webster. Wedgwood. Weigand. Weil. West.
Westermarck. Whittier. Wiedemann. Wieland. Wiltse. Winternitz. World Almanac. Wordsworth. Wulfila.

Xenophon. Xenophanes.

Yarrow. Young.

Zacharia. Zanetti. Zendrini. Ziller. Zimmermann. Zmigrodzki. Zoroaster.

INDEX II.

PLACES, PEOPLES, TRIBES, LANGUAGES, ETC.

Abipones. Abu-Zabel. Accadians. Achomawi. Afghan. Africa. Ainu (Ainos). Alabama. Alarsk. Alaska.
Albania. Albany. Alemanian. Alfurus. Algeria. Algonkian (Algonquin). Alleghanies. Alsace. Altai.
Altmark. Amazulu. Ambamba. Amboina. America. Anahuac. Andalusia. Andaman Islands. Angola. Angoy.
Anjou. Annam (Annamites). Apaches. Arabia (Arabs). Aramaan. Arapahos. Ararat, Mt. Araucanians.
Arawak. Arcadia. Ardennes. Arekuna. Argentine. Arizona. Armenia (Armenian). Aryan. Ashanti.
Asia. Asia Minor. Assyria. Aston. Athens. Aurora. Australia (Australians). Austria. Aveyron.
Aztecs (see Nahuatl, Mexico).

Badagas. Baden. Baffin Land. Bajansi. Bakairi. Bakulai. Balanta. Bale. Bamberg. Bambuk. Bampton.
Banians. Banks Islands. Basques. Basutos. Battas. Bavaria. Bayreuth. Bechuanas. Bedouins. Beit-Bidel.
Belford. Belgium. Bengal (Bengalese). Berg. Bern. Berwickshire. Beverly. Bielefeld. Bilqula
(Bella Coola). Blackfoot (Blackfeet). Boeotia. Bohemia. Bologna. Bomba. Bomma. Bonyhad. Borneo.
Bornoo (Bornu). Bosnia. Boston. Boxley. Brabant. Brahmans. Brazil. Bremen. Brerton. Breslau.
British Columbia. Brittany (Breton). Brooklyn. Buckinghamshire. Buddhists. Bulgaria. Burgundians.
Burma (Burmese). Buru. Buryats (Buriats). Byzantium.

Caddos. Cakchiquels. Calabar. Calabria. California. Cambridge. Canada. Canary Islands. Canterbury.
Cape Breton. Cape York. Caribs. Carinthia. Camatic. Carthage. Castilian. Catloltq. Cuyuse.
Celebes. Celts (Celtic). Central America. Ceylon. Chalons. Champagne. Cbarlbury. Cherokees.
Chester. Chetimachus. Chiapas. Chibchas. Chickasaws. Chilli. China (Chinese). Chinantec. Chinchas.
Chinook. Chippeway (Ojibwa). Chiquito. Choctaw. Cholona. Clonmel. Coconino. Colchester. Colhuacan.
Comanches. Colne. Cologne. Congo. Connecticut. Coomassie. Coptic. Cornwall (Cornish). Cossacks.
Cotas. Cracow. Cree. Creeks. Crete. Cronstadt. Cumberland. Czechs. Czernowitz.

Dakotas. Damaras. Damascus. Dardistan. Darfur. Darien. Deeping. Delaware. Delawares. Denmark
(Danish). Devonshire. Dieyerie. Ditmarsh. Dnieper. Dodona. Donegal. Doracho. Dravidian. Dutch.
Dvina. Dyaks.

East Indies. Egypt (Egyptian). Elberfeld. Elbing. England (English). Ermeland. Erzgebirge.
Eskimo (Esquimaux). Essenes. Essex. Esthonia (Esthonian). Eton. Etruscan. Euphrates. Europe.
Ewe. Eynsham.

Feddringen. Fernando Po. Fiji. Finland (Finns). Flat Heads. Florence. Florida. Fohr. France
(French). Franconia. Franks. Friburg. Frisian. Fuegians. Fulas.

Gaelic. Galibi. Galicia. Ganges. Gauls. Geneva. Genoa. Georgia. Gerbstadt. Germany (German).
Gilolo. Glastonhnry. Gloucester. Godstowe. Gothic (Goths). Gottingen. Greece (Greek). Greenland.
Grodno. Gualalas. Guarani. Guarayo. Guatemala. Guiana. Guinea. Gujurat. Gypsies.

Hackney. Haddenham. Haidas. Hameln. Hanafi. Hanover. Hare Indians. Harz. Havel. Hawaii (Hawaiian).
Hebrews (Jews). Heide. Heliopolis. Hellene. Herefordshire. Hervey Islands. Hesse. Heston. Heton.
Hichitis. Hidatsa. High-Coquetdale. Himalayas. Hindus (Hindoos). Holland. Honduras. Hopi. Hottentots.
Houghton. Hovas. Hungary (Hungarian). Huns. Huntingdonshire. Hupas. Hurous.

Iceland (Icelandic). India. Indians, American (see also various tribal names). Indo-Iranian.
Innspruck. Iowa. Ipurucoto. Ireland (Irish). Iroquois. Ishogo. Isleta. Islington. Italy (Italian).

Jamaica. Japan (Japanese). Jasmund. Java. Jericho. Jews (see Hebrews). Jivaro.

Kabinapek. Kabylia (Kabyles). Kaffirs (Kafirs). Kalispelm. Kallundborg. Kalmucks. Kammin. Kamtschatka.
Kansa. Kansas. Karaibi. Karankawa. Karok. Kato Pomo. Kei Islands. Kent. Kentucky. Kherson.
Khonds. Khyens. Kiche (Quiche). Kilkenny. Kingsmill Islands. Kingston. Klamath. Knutsford.
Kolosh. Kols (Kolhs). Konigsberg. Konow. Kootenays. Korosi. Kwakiutl.

Labrador. Lambeth. Laon. Lapps. Latin (Roman). Latuka. Leipzig. Lewis. Liberia. Libya. Liege.
Lille. Lincolnshire. Lithuania. Loango. Loire. London. Louisiana. Lourdes. Low German. Lowland
Scotch. Luneburg. Lusatia. Lycia.

Madagascar. Magyars. Maine. Makusi (Macusi). Malabar. Malay. Malaysia. Mandans. Mandingos.
Mangaia. Mansfeld. Maoris. Mark. Marquesas Islands. Marutse. Maryland. Massachusetts. Mataria.
Matchlapi. Maya. Mazatec. Mecklenburg. Meesow. Meiderich. Melanesia. Menomoni. Mesopotamia.
Messenia. Mexico (Mexican). Miao-tse. Micmacs. Micronesia. Milan. Minahassers. Mincopies. Mingrelia.
Mississagas. Mississippi. Miwok. Moabites. Modocs (Modok). Mohaves. Mohammedans (Moslems).
Moki (Moqui). Moluccas. Monbuttu (Monboddo). Mongols. Montenegro. Monte Pulciano. Moors. Moravians.
Moree. Moslems (Muslim, Mussulmans). Mosquito. Mota. Mpongwe. Mull. Munda Kols. Mundombe. Murs.
Muskogees. Mussulmans. Muzo. Nah'ane. Nahuatl (Aztec). Nairs. Namaqua. Naples. Navajos (Navahos).
Negritos. Neo-Latin (Romance). Netherlands. Neuchatel. Neu-Stettin. Newcastle-on-Tyne. New
England. New Guinea. New Hampshire. New Hebrides. New Jersey. New Mexico. New York. New Zealand.
Nias. Nicaragua. Nile. Nilgiris (Neilgherries). Nipissings. Nishinam. Niskwalli. Nootkas. Normandy.
North Carolina. Northumberland. Norway (Norwegian). Norwich. Nova Scotia. Ntlakyapamuq. Nubia.
Nurnberg.

Ojibwa (see Chippeway). Okanak-en. Oldenburg. Omagua. Omahas. Oraibi. Oranienburg. Oregon.
Oriental. Ossetic. Ostiaks. Otranto. Oude. Ovaherero. Oxfordshire.

Padam. Padua. Palestine. Pali. Pampas. Panjab (Punjab). Papuans. Paraguay. Parsees. Patwin.
Pawnees. Peake River. Pelew Islands. Pennsylvania. Penobscots. Pentlate. Persia (Persian).
Peru (Peruvian). Philadelphia. Philippine Islands. Phoenicia. Phrygia. Piutes. Plattdeutsch.
Podolia. Poitou. Poland. Polynesia. Pomerania. Porno. Ponkas. Pontmain. Pontoise. Portugal
(Portuguese). Prussia. Pt. Barrow. Pudu-vayal. Pueblos Indians. Puharies. Pyrenees.

Quedlmburg. Queen Charlotte Islands. Queensland. Queres. Quiches (Kiches).

Rackow. Rapstede. Rarotonga. Reddies. Rees. Regenwald. Rhode Island. Rio Grande. Rio Nunez.
Ripon. Rome (Roman). Rotherham. Roumania. Rugen. Russia (Russian).

Sahaptin. Sahara. Sakalavas. Salisbury. Salish. Salzburg. Samoa. Samoyeds. Sandeh. Sanskrit.
Santals. Sappendelf. Saracens. Sarcees. Saxony. Scandinavian. Sehaffhausen. Schleswig-Holstein.
Scotland (Scotch). Seminoles. Semites (Semitic). Semnoues. Senegambia. Servia (Servian). Seville.
Shasta. Shawnees. Shekiani. Shropshire. Shushwaps. Sia. Siam. Siberia. Sicily (Sicilian). Sierra
Leone. Silesia. Silt. Siouan (Sioux). Slavonian (Slavonic). Snanaimuq. Society Islands. Soissons.
Soleure. Sollinger Wald. Solomon Islands. Somali. Songi. Songish. Soudan. South America. South
Carolina. Spain (Spanish). Spanish-American. Sparta. Stapelholm. Steiermark. St. Ives. St.
Petersburg. Strassburg. Suevi. Sunderland. Suru. Susu. Sumatra. Swabia. Sweden (Swedish). Switzerland
(Swiss). Syriac.

Tacana. Tafllet. Tagals. Tahiti. Tamil. Tamanako. Tarahumari. Tartars. Tasmanians. Teda. Tehua.
Telugu. Teton. Teutonic. Texas. Thames. Thuringia. Tiber. Tibet. Tierra del Fuego. Tigris.
Timbuktu (Timbuctoo). Tinne. Tiszla-Eszlar. Tlingit. Todas. Tondern. Tonga. Tongatabu. Tonkawe'.
Tonningstedt. Tonquin. Transylvania. Trent. Treves. Tshi (see Ashanti). Tsimshian. Tuareg.
Tunguses. Tupende. Tupi. Turko-Tartars. Turks. Tusayan. Tuscany. Twana. Tyre. Tyrol. Tzendals.

Ukrain. Uliase Islands. Ungava. United States. Unyoro. Utes.

Vancouver Island. Vaud. Venezuela. Vermont. Virginia. Visigoths. Vitilevu. Volga.

Wailakki. Wakikuyu. Wales (Welsh). Wallachia. Walla-Walla. Walpi. Wanika. Wasco. Washington.
Wazaramo. Wazegua. Wends. Westminster. Westphalia. Whida. Winchester. Wingrove. Winnebagos.
Wintun. Wisconsin. Wiyots. Wrek. Wurtemburg. Wurzburg. Wyoming.

Yahgans. Yao. Yaqui. Yeddavanad. Yezo (Yesso). Yokaia. York. Yorkshire. Yoruba. Yucatan. Yuchi.
Yuke. Yuki. Yukon. Yurok.

Zanzibar. Zend. Zulus. Zuni. Zurich.

INDEX III

SUBJECTS

Abandonment.
Abba.
Abbas.
Abbot.
Abbreviations.
ABC.
--rhymes.
Abeona.
Abortion.
Abraham.
Abyss-mother.
Accouchement.
Acolytes.
Actions, goddess of.
Activities of childhood.
Acting (actor).
Adam.
Adam.
Adebar.
[Greek: adelphos].
Adeona.
Adolescence.
Adoption.
Adult.
Adventures.
AEsculapius.
Affection.
Age of consent.
  of marriage.
Agenona.
Agni.
Agriculture.
Akka.
Albinos.
Alcohol.
All-father.
"All-fathers."
"All Fools'Day."
Alliteration.
All-mother.
Alma mater.
Alphahet.
--rhymes.
Alumna, alumnus.
Amicus and Amelias.
Amun (Amon).
Amusements.
Anahita.
Ancestor-worship.
Angakok (child).
Angels.
Animal-food.
--gods.
--language.
--nurses.
--oracles.
--tamer.
Animals.
  and Christ.
Ankle-deep.
"Annexes."
Answers (parents').
Antelope-boy.
Antennaria.
Anthropometry.
[Greek: anthropos].
Anti-Semitism.
Aphrodite.
Apple-pips.
--temptation.
Apples.
Ararat, Mt.
Arm's length.
Art.
Artemis.
Artemisia.
Ash.
Ashes.
Ashtaroth.
Aspen.
Ass.
Astarte.
Aster.
Atta.
Attila.
Atys.
Awakening of soul.

B. A.
Babe.
Babel.
"Babes in wood."
Babies.
"Babies in eyes."
"Babies' breath."
"Babies' feet."
Babies' food.
"Babies' slippers."
Babies' souls.
"Babies' toes."
Baby.
--signs for.
--words for.
--basket.
"Baby blue-eyes."
"Baby-bunting."
Baby-carrier.
"Baby-talk."
Bacchus.
Bachelors.
Bairn.
Balams.
Ballads.
Bambino, Santo.
Band of Hope.
Bands of Mercy.
Bandchen.
Baptism.
--(blood).
--(fire).
"Bar."
"Barbara Allen."
Barbarossa.
Basil.
Bastard.
Bathing.
Batyushka.
Baucis.
Bayaderes.
Bay-tree.
B. D.
Beans.
Bear (to).
Bear-boy.
--girl.
--lick.
--stories.
Bears.
Beast-children.
--oracles.
Beating.
"Beating the Bounds."
Beauty.
--bath.
Bed.
Bees.
Begetting.
Bel.
Belit.
Bell.
"Bellypaaro."
Berselia.
Berusjos.
Bhavani.
Bible-verses.
Bibliography.
Bidhata-Purusha.
"Billing and cooing."
"Binder."
Bird-language.
--messenger.
--oracle.
--soul.
Birds.
--of Christ.
Birth, birth-myths.
--days.
--marks.
--of Christ.
Bitch-nurse.
Biting.
"Black art."
Blackness of raven.
Blason populaire.
Blessing.
"Blind-man's buff."
Blindness.
Blizzard.
Blood.
"Blood-clot Boy."
Blood-covenant.
"Bloody Tom."
Blossoming.
Blow (to).
"Bluebirds."
"Blue-eyed babies."
Blue-ribbon Clubs.
Body.
Bogies.
Bojiwassis.
Bona dea.
--mater.
Bonaparte.
Bones.
"Boo."
"Boo Man."
Born (to be).
"Borough-English."
Bounds.
Bow-and-arrows.
Boy.
Boy-bards.
--bishop.
--code.
--colonies.
--cornstealer.
--gangs.
--heroes.
--husband.
--martyrs.
--"medicine man."
--moots.
--oracle.
--pope.
--priest.
--shaman.
--societies.
--travellers.
--weather-maker.
--whale-catcher.
--wonder-worker.
Boyish excesses.
Boys.
"Boys and Girls."
Boys' Clubs.
"Boys' love."
Bread.
"Bread and butter."
Breath.
"Bremen geese."
"Brew and Bake."
Bridal of earth and sky.
Bride.
Bridegroom.
Bridle (tongue).
Brightness of sun.
Bright side of child-life.
Broom.
Brother (bone).
  (younger).
Brotherhoods.
Brother-stars.
Bruises.
"Bub."
Bube.
Bud.
Buddha.
Bulbulhezar.
"Bull-roarer."
Buried armies.
Buschgroszmutter.
Butter.
Butterfly.
Butz.

Cabbages.
Cackling.
Calandrina.
Calf.
Calling.
Camoaena.
Candy.
Cannibals.
Canoes.
Caprimulgus.
Carduus marianus.
Carna.
Carving.
Caste.
Casting dice.
  lots.
"Cat-language."
Cato.
"Cat's cradle."
Cattle.
"Caught."
Caul.
Caves.
Cedar.
Cereal.
Ceres.
Chalchihuitlicue.
Challenges.
Chamaigenes.
"Chandelle magique."
Changelings.
Changes at school.
Chant.
Cheers.
Chemical terms.
Cherry-tree.
Chick-peas.
Chief.
Chilblains.
Child.
Child-actor.
--adventurer.
--birth.
--bringer.
--carrier.
--conjurer.
--crucifixion.
--dancer.
--deity.
--dice-thrower.
--discoverer.
--fetich.
"Child-finger."
"Child-fount."
Child-god.
--healer.
--heroes.
--historian.
--inventor.
--judge.
"Child-lake."
Child-language.
--leader.
--linguist.
Child lot-caster.
--marriage.
--mascot.
--musician.
--names.
--nurses.
--oracle.
--physician.
--poet.
--priest.
--prophet.
--sacrifice.
--saint.
--shaman.
--singer.
--societies.
--sociology.
--soul.
--spirit.
--stealers.
"Child-stone."
Child-study.
--teacher.
--thaumaturgist.
"Child-tree."
"Child-trough."
Child-verdicts.
--vision-seer.
--weather-maker.
--wiseacre.
--witch.
--words.
--worship.
  and father.
  and fire.
  and mother.
  and music.
  and nature.
  and race.
  and rhythm.
Child and spirit-world.
  and woman.
  in art.
  in ceremonial.
  in language.
  in moon.
  in proverbs.
  in religion.
  in school.
Childhood and age.
  in art and literature.
Childhood's golden age.
Childlessness.
Children and fools.
  as stars.
"Children of God."
"Children of hand."
"Children of Light."
"Children of Paul's."
"Children of sun."
Children's animals and birds.
  blood.
  clothing.
  courts.
  ditties.
  flowers and plants.
  food.
  games.
  holidays.
  justice.
  lies.
  minds.
  names.
  parties.
  paradise.
  questions.
  reasonings.
  rights.
Children's souls.
  thoughts.
  tree.
Child's kiss.
Chin.
"Chip of old block."
Chipmunk.
"Choose."
Christ.
Christ-child.
Christening letter.
Christianity.
Christmas.
--herb.
--oracle.
Chrysostom, St.
Church and children.
Cinderella.
Cinteotl.
Circumcision.
Clay-birds.
Clocks (flower).
Clothing.
Clytie.
Cock.
"Cock-a-doodle-doo."
Cock-robin.
Code of honour.
Coiffe.
Cold.
Cold water.
Collecting.
College-fetiches.
--societies.
--yells.
Colleges, primitive.
Colonies (boy).
Colt.
Comparisons with animals.
  with plants.
Confusion of tongues.
Conglomerate.
Consent, age of.
Constantine.
Constructing.
C-o-n-t-e-n-t-s.
Contents of mind.
Corn.
"Corn-field."
Cornflower.
Corn-goddess.
--mother.
"Corn-stalk fiddle."
Corn-tobacco.
Corn-woman.
Counsel, god of.
Counting, goddess of.
Counting-out rhymes.
Courtship-games.
"Couvade."
Cows.
Crab-hunting.
--mother.
Crabs.
Cradle-goddess.
Cradles.
Cramps.
Crawfish.
Creation.
Creator.
Crepundia.
Cries of animals.
  of birds.
Criminal-fetiches.
--societies.
Crocus.
Crossbill.
Crowing of babies.
  of cock.
Crumbs.
Crying.
"Crying for Moon."
Crying, god of.
Cub.
Cuba.
Cubit.
Cucalkin.
Cuchavira.
Cuckoo.
Culture-hero.
--school.
Cunina.
Cupid.
Curses.
Cybele.
Cyrus.

Dad.
Dada.
"Daddy darkness."
"Daddy-nuts."
Daisy.
Dam.
Dame.
Dancing.
Dandelion.
Daphne.
Date-palm.
Daughter..
"Davie daylicht."
Dawn-maidens.
--mother.
Day-father.
Days of week.
Dead child.
  hand.
  mother.
Dea mens.
Statin
Death.
"Death-baby."
"Death-eome-quickly."
Death-reaper.
Deborah.
Deceits.
Decoctions.
Dedication,
Deed-angel.
Deformation.
Deformed children.
Degenerate.
Delirium.
Demeter.
Deudanthropology.
Der arme Heinrich.
Deucalion.
Deus.
catus pater.
conus.
Devastation.
"Devil-dances."
Devils.
Devil's grandmother.
  mother.
Dew-drops.
Dialects.
Dialect-Society.
Diaua.
Dicentra.
Dictionaries.
Diespiter.
Diminutives.
Dionysus.
Disappearances.
Discovery of medicine.
Disease-curers.
Disinheritance.
Dislocation.
Diva edusa..
Diva potina..
Divination.
Divinity of childhood.
"Doctor born."
Doctors.
Dodola.
Dogs.
Doll-clothing.
--congress.
--houses.
--language.
--parties.
--shows.
--spirits.
Dolls.
Donkey.
"Dove dung."
Doves.
Dramatics.
Drawing lots.
Dreams.
Dress.
Drink, goddess of.
Drink of immortality.
"Drunkards."
"Ducks."
"Ducks and Drakes."
"Ducks Fly."
"Duke-a-roving."
Dulness cured.
Dumbness.
Dwarfs.
Dyaus-Pitar.
"Dying."

Eagle.
Ears of hare.
Earth-father.
--flower.
--god.
--goddesses.
--mother.
--wife.
Easter.
"Easter-hare."
Eating.
"Eating the roll."
Eden.
Education, primitive.
Eel-mother.
Effigies.
Efflux of sun.
Egg, cosmic.
Eggs.
"Eggs of earth."
Eileithyia.
Elder.
Elder brother.
Elder-mother.
Eldermen.
Eldest son.
Elidorus.
Elixirs of life.
Elizabeth Bathori.
Elysium.
Embryo.
Embryology of society.
Emperor-father.
Enfanter.
Engelhart.
EntMndung.
Eos.
Epilepsy.
Epworth League.
Equivoques.
Erd.
Erdenmutter.
Eros.
Etelmutter.
Eternal youth.
Ethics.
Ethnic origins.
Ethnology.
Eve.
Evil.
  and good.
"Everywhere."
Evolution.
"Ewig-weibliche (das)."
Excesses.
"Excrement of gods."
Execution.
Ex pede Herculem.
Eyes.
"Eyes, babies in."

Fables.
Fabulinus.
Faculty of speech.
Fagging.
Fairies.
Fairy-beer.
--tales.
Family.
"Farming."
Fasting.
Fates.
Father.
Father Amun.
Father animal-god.
--balam.
--earth.
--fire.
--frost.
--giants.
--god.
--gods.
--heart.
--heaven.
--king.
Fatherhood, lore of.
Fatherland.
Fatherless.
Father-light.
--moon.
--priest.
--right.
--river.
--sea.
--sky.
--strong-bird.
--sun.
Thames.
--thumb.
--thunder.
Tiber.
--wind.
--worship.
  and child.
  as masseur.
  in Heaven.
  in Proverbs.
  of country.
  of history.
  of inventions.
  of medicine.
  of people.
Father (to).
"Fathers."
"Fathers, Pilgrim."
"Fathers of the Church."
"Fathers (Our)."
Father's dieting.
  taboos.
Fathom.
Faust, Dr.
Feast of dead.
Feature-plays.
"Feeding the dead."
Feet.
Female.
Female animals.
  colleges.
  element.
  societies.
Femina.
Fetiches.
Fever.
Fifth son.
Fig-tree.
Filet.
Filia.
Filius.
Filly.
"Finger-biter."
Finger-games.
--names.
--plays.
--rhymes.
Finger's breadth.
Fingers.
F-i-n-i-s.
Fire.
Fire-father.
--grandfather.
--mother.
--place.
and marriage.
First-born.
First-food.
First-kiss.
Fishes.
Fishing.
Fits.
Flax.
Flesh, goddess of.
Flight into Egypt.
Flogging.
Floral Trinity.
Florigeny.
Flounder.
Flourish.
Flower-child.
--grandfather.
--grandmother.
--language.
--names.
--oracles.
--stars.
Flowers.
Foal.
Foetus.
Folk-lore of Christmas.
--medicine.
--thought.
Food.
  goddess of.
  of gods.
--taboos.
Foot.
"Footing."
Foot-races.
Forehead.
Foreign words.
"Foresters, Junior."
Forget-me-not.
Formula.
Fortune.
Fortune-telling.
Foster-animals.
--children.
--mother.
Fountains.
Fountain of youth.
Fran Beretha.
  Holle.
  Wachholder.
Freia.
Frein.
Frenulum.
Frenum.
Fresh.
Frenzy.
Friday-Mother.
"Friday-Night Clubs."
Friendships.
"Frog-plant."
"Frog Pond."
Frost.
Frost-father.
--mother.
Fruit.
Funeral-plays.
--rites.

Gabaurths.
"Gabble retchet."
Gabriel.
Gaa.
Galium.
Gambling.
Game-formula.
--oracles.
--songs.
Games.
Gangs.
Garden of souls.
Gates of heaven.
Gaultheria.
Gavelkind.
Ge.
Genesis.
Genius.
Gens.
Genteel.
Gentile.
Gentle.
Genuine.
Genus.
Geoffrey de Mayence.
Geography.
Geographical rhymes.
Geranium.
Germ.
Germander.
Ghost-hunts.
Giants.
Giants' playthings.
Giglan de Galles.
Girl.
Girl-angakoks.
Girl-carriers.
--dancer.
--education.
--figure.
--inventor.
--linguist.
--poet.
--priest.
--rain-maker.
--sorcerer, witch.
--vision-seer.
"Girls and Boys."
Girls' Friendly Society.
Girls, wild.
Glastonbury Thorn.
Glow-worm.
Gluskap (Glooskap).
Glyceria.
Goats.
"Go backs."
Goblins.
God, idea of.
  as begetter.
  as creator.
  as father.
  as mother.
  as potter.
"God's bird."
Gods and goddesses of childhood.
Gods, playthings of.
Going out.
Gold.
Golden Age.
  of childhood.
  of love.
"Golden Darling."
Golden House.
Gold-seers.
Good and evil.
Goose.
Gotterburg.
Graces.
Grammar.
--school.
"Grandfather."
Grandfather-fire.
--Pleiades.
--sky, 65.
"Grandmother."
Grandmother-fire.
  of devil.
  of men.
Grass.
--image.
Grateful beasts.
Gravid.
Great children.
  eaters.
"Great Father."
Great-grandmother.
"Great Hare."
"Great Mother."
"Green Gravel."
Grizzly bear.
Grow.
Guardian angels, and
  deities.
Gude.
Guessing-games.
Guillemots.
Gypsy-singers.

Haberfeldtreiben.
Hades.
Hair.
--cutting.
--sacrifice.
"Halcyon days."
"Half."
"Hallow E'en."
Hand.
Hare.
"Hare-bread."
Hare-child.
"Hare-eggs."
Hare-god.
--lip.
--town.
Harke.
Harvest-home.
Haulemutter.
Hawthorne.
Hazel.
"Head, good."
Heart.
"Heart of Hills."
Hearth.
Heat.
Heathen.
Heaven.
Heaven-father.
  visited.
Heil.
Hell.
Hellebore.
Hera.
Herb-robert.
Hercules.
Heredity.
Hermes.
Hermits.
Hero (child).
--myths.
--twins.
"Heroic treatment."
Hertha.
Hestia.
Hiawatha.
"Hide and Seek."
"High Father."
"High Mother."
High Schools.
Historian (child).
Historical bogies.
  games.
History.
"Hog Latin."
Holdings, small.
Hole.
Holidays.
Holle.
Holly.
Holy Family.
"Home-made dialect."
Homo.
  alalus.
  sapiens.
Honey.
"Honey-moon."
Hoopoo.
Hope, goddess of.
Hop-o'-my-thumb.
Horn of Oldenburg.
Horns.
Horse.
Horse-boy.
Household arts.
Houstonia.
Hunchback.
Hunger.
Hunting.
Hurt.
Hyacinthus.
Hydrolatry.

Idols and dolls.
Illegitimate children.
Images.
Imitation.
  of animals.
Imitative games.
Immortality.
Improvvisatrici.
"In."
Incarnation.
Infancy.
  deities of.
Infant.
Infant-magician.
--marriage.
--prodigy.
--spirit.
Infanta.
Infanticide.
Infantry.
Ingenious.
Ingenuous.
Inheritance.
Initials.
Insult.
Intoxication.
Inventiveness of children.
Invisibility.
I. O. G. T.
Ipukarea.
Isis.
Isles of West.
Istar.
"It."
"Iter ad montem."
Itzcuinam.

"Jack and Jill."
"Jack and Bean Stalk."
"JacktheGiant-Killer."
"Jack Stay-at-Home."
Jackal.
Jacob's ladder.
Janitar.
Janus.
Jargons.
Jehovah.
"Jennia Jones."
"Jenny Lang Pock."
"Jenny Iron-Teeth."
Jesus (see Christ).
Jewels.
Jin.
"Jonah."
Joseph.
  of Arimathea.
Judge (child).
"Judge and Jury."
Judicial folk-lore.
  games.
Jurisprudence of child's play.
Jumping.
Juniper.
Juno.

Kalevala. Kaspar Hauser. Kata. Katzeuveit. Keekel-reem. "Kernaby." Key. Khuns. Kid. Kidnapping.
Kin. Kind. "Kinderbaum." "Kinderbrunnen." Kindergarten. "Kindersee." "Kindertruog." King. King-father.
Kingdom of heaven. "King's Evil." Kinship of Nature. Kintaro. Kissing. Ki-yah! Klagemiitter.
Klein. Kndbe. Knave. Knecht. Knee-high. Knickerbockers. Knife-point. Knight. "Knights of Spain."
Knowledge-tree. Koko. Kok-ko. Koran. Krishna. Krono. "Kiikkendell fair." Kwanon.

"Labour."
Lad.
"Lady Summer."
Lake.
Lama.
Lamb.
Landesleute.
Landesvater.
"Land of milk and honey."
Language.
  (bird).
  (flower).
--study.
Langue maternelle-.
Lapwing.
Lass.
Latin.
Laughter-roses.
Laume.
Leap-frog.
Leaves.
"Left twin."
Leprosy.
Leucothea.
Levana.
Libussa.
Licking.
Lies (children's).
(parents').
Life-tree.
Lifting.
Light.
Light-children.
--father.
--god.
Lightning-mother.
Lilies.
Lilith.
Lilliputian farms.
Lime.
Lingua materna.
Linguist (child).
Linguistic exercises.
faculty.
inventiveness.
Linguistics.
Litholatry.
Little.
"Little boy's breeches."
"Little Boy's Work."
Little children.
"Little man."
"Little mothers."
"Little seal of God."
"Little woman."
Livid.
Lizard.
LL.D.
Lonicera.
Loon.
"Lose measure (to)."
Lotis.
Lots (casting).
Louis and Alexander.
Louis XI.
Louis XV.
Love.
and language.
and song.
Love-games.
--oracles.
Lower world visited.
Lucina.
Lucina sine concubitu.
"Luck-bringer."
"Luck of Edenhall."
Lullabies.
Lumbago.
Lupine.
Lychnis.
Lyre.

Ma.
M. A.
Madonna.
Mafia.
Magic.
Magic doll.
taper.
Magnificat.
Maia.
Maid.
Maids, old.
Main-de-gloire.
Malumsis.
Mama.
Mama Allpa.
Cocha.
Cora.
Mamma.
Mammalia.
Manabozho (Manabush, Naniboju).
Manhood.
Man-in-moon.
Manners.
Manslaughter.
Man-tree.
Maple.
Marchen.
March-mother.
Marcou.
Marguerite.
Maria Candelaria.
Marianne de Quito.
Marienmilch.
Marks of shaman.
Marriage.
Marriage (before birth).
(spirit).
--age.
--games.
--oracles.
Marriages (child).
Mars Pater.
Mary (Virgin).
Mary's, three.
Mascot.
Masculine element.
Massage.
Matar.
Mater.
alma.
Flora.
Mater Lua.
Maia.
Matuta.
Turrita.
Matriarchate.
Matricide.
Matron.
Matronalia.
Matthias Corvinus.
Matutinus Pater.
Maut.
May.
May-day.
--festivities.
--Queen.
McDonogh School.
Mead.
Measuring.
Meat.
Medicine (folk).
Melted butter.
Member of society (child).
Memnon.
Memory.
"Men-women."
Mercury.
Mere-patrie (la).
"Merry Month" (May).
Messages.
Messenger-bird.
Messerin.
Metamorphoses.
Metempsychosis.
[Greek: Maetris].
Metropolis.
Midas.
Midnight.
Midsummer.
Milk.
"Milk and Honey."
Milk-tree.
Milky Way.
Mimicry.
Mind-goddess.
Minds (children's).
  (parents').
Minerva.
Miniatures.
"Ministering Children's League."
Miracles.
Mishosha.
Mississippi.
Mistress.
Mock pig-hunting.
  tobacco.
  turtle-catching.
Modelling.
Moderson.
Modersprak.
Moedertaal.
Moimenspraken.
[Greek: Moirai.]
Moloch.
"Molly Maguires."
Money.
Monkeys.
Montezuma.
Month-mother.
Month.
Moon.
Moon-children.
--father.
--god.
--goddess.
--maiden.
--mother.
--plaything.
--spots.
Morals.
Moses.
Mother.
Mother (dead).
Mother-abyss.
--animals.
--antelope.
--basil.
--corn.
Mother-crab.
--crow.
--dawn.
"Mother-die."
Mother-Dnieper.
--Dvina.
--earth.
--elder.
--eel.
--feeling.
--fire.
--flower.
--forest.
--Friday.
--frost.
--Ganges.
--God.
--influence.
--inventor.
--land.
--lode.
--March.
--matter.
--moon.
--mountain.
--mud.
--names.
--nature.
--night.
--ocean.
--plants.
--poet.
--priest.
--queen.
--right.
--river.
--sea.
--shrimp.
--soul.
--spirit.
--sun.
--Sunday.
--teacher.
--thumb.
--tongue.
--Volga.
--water.
--Wednesday.
--wit.
--worship.
Mother and child.
Motherhood.
Mother in proverbs.
Mother of cows.
  of devil.
  of fingers.
  of hand.
  of heaven.
  of Lares.
  of light.
  of lightning.
  of men.
  of rivers.
  of stones.
  of sun.
"Mother of thousands."
"Mother's beauties."
Mother's curse.
  kiss.
  land.
  night.
"Mother's son."
Mother's soul.
  spirit.
  tears.
"Mothers."
"Mothers, little."
Mother-in-law.
Mountain-mother.
Mourning.
Mouse.
Mouth.
Mud-mother.
Mud-pies.
"Mulberry Bush."
Mumbo-jumbo.
Mummies.
Mundfaul.
Muscari.
Muse-mother.
Music.
Musician (child).
Mustard.
Mut (Maut).
Mutilations.
Mutterbiene.
Mutterbirke.
Mutterblume.
Mutterboden.
Mutteresel.
Muttergefilde.
Muttergrund.
Mutterhase.
Mutterhaus.
Mutterhimmel.
Mutter Holle.
Mutterholz.
Mutterkind.
Mutterland.
Mutterlamm.
Mutterluft.
Muttermensch.
Mutternelke.
Mutterpferd.
Mutterschaf.
Mutterschwein.
Mutterseele.
Mutterseelenallein.
Muttersohn.
Muttersprache.
Mutterstadt.
"Mutterstein."
Muttertiere,
Mutterzunge.
"My Household."
Mysteries.
Myth-tellers.
Myths of birth.

Nagualism. Names (child). Names (father). Names (mother). Names (plant). Naniboju (Manabozho,
Manabush). Narcissus. Narses. Natal ceremonies. "Natal soil." Nation. "Native country." "Natural
son." Nature. Nature-mother. Nautch-girls. Neck-measurement. "Needle." Nemophila. Neptune.
New-birth. New-born. New Life. New Year. "Nice (to make look)." Night. Night-father. --mare.
--mother. Nightingale. Njembe. Noon-lady. Norus. Nose. Nose-bleed. Nowidu. Nox. Numeria. Nunu.
Nurse. "Nuts of May."

Oath. "Oats, Pease" etc. Ocean-mother. Oceanus. Odin. Ogres. Old men reciters. "Old Mountain
Woman." Oliver and Arthur. Onomatology. Onomatopoeia. Opis. Ops. Oracle-keeper (child). Oracles.
Oranges. Oratory. Orchis. Ornament. Ornithogalum. Orphans. Osiris. Ossipaga. Other-world visited.
"Our Father in Heaven." "Our Fathers." "Our Lady's Bed-Straw." "Our Lady's Thistle." "Out."
Owl. Owl-women. Ox-boy. Oxen.

Pa.
Pachamama.
Pain.
"Painted devils."
  [Greek: Pais.]
Paleness of moon.
Pallas Athene.
Palm-tree.
Pansy.
Pantomime.
Papa.
Papa (Earth).
  (priest).
  Luga.
"Paper of Pins."
Para.
Paradise.
  Lost.
  visited.
Parca.
Parent.
Parent-finger.
Parental affection.
Parentalia.
Parents' answers.
  lies.
  minds.
Parsley.
Parties.
Partition of land.
Partula.
Parvus.
Pater.
  cense.
  familias.
  patratus.
  patriae.
Patres.
Patria.
Patria potestas.
Patriarch.
Patrician.
Patrimony.
Patriotism.
[Greek: patris].
Patrius sermo.
Patron.
Peacock.
"Pearl grass."
Pearls.
Pebbles.
Pedagogy (Primitive).
  of play.
Peevish.
Pelican.
Pennalism.
Peunou.
Pennyroyal.
Peragenor.
Perambulation.
Percival.
Personal names.
Pet, pettish.
Phallus.
Pharaoh.
Phatite.
Philemon.
Philology (see Linguistics).
Philosophy.
[Greek: phusi].
Phyllis.
Physical efficiency.
Physiognomy.
"Physonyms."
Pigs.
Pine.
Pinks.
Pippadolify.
"Pity my Case."
"Place, my."
Plant-food.
--mother,
--names.
--oracles.
Planting trees.
Plants.
Play.
Play-courts.
--railroad.
--spirit.
--theory.
--things.
--verses.
--work.
"Playing at work."
Pleiades.
Plover.
Poet (child).
Poet (mother).
Poeta nascitur.
"Poison-doctor."
Poison-food.
Polednice.
Politics.
Polygala.
Polyglots.
Polypodium.
Ponds.
"Poodle's Wedding."
Popanz.
Pope.
Popelmann.
Posthumous child.
Post-mortem marriages.
Pottery.
Pramantha.
Prayer.
Precocity.
Predestination.
Pre-existence.
P-r-e-f-a-c-e.
Pregnant.
Pre-natal marriages.
Presents.
Priest (child).
  (father).
  (mother).
Priest and food.
Primogeniture.
Prithivi-matar.
"Prophets."
Proverbs (age).
  (child).
  (father).
  (genius).
  (mother).
  (parents).
  (youth).
Proverbs of birds.
Psammetichus.
Psyche.
Psychology.
Puberty.
Pudelmutter.
Puella.
Puer.
Pullet.
Punchkin.
Pupil.
Puppies.
Purgatory.
[Greek: Purperouna].

Quarrels. Queen. "Queen of Heaven." Queen-mother. Questions (children's). Quetzalcoatl.

Rabbit.
Raccoon.
Race.
Races.
'Rah! 'rah! 'rah!
Rain.
Rain-bow.
Rainbow-goddess.
Rain-drops.
Rain-makers (children).
--oracles.
--rhymes.
--stillers.
Raising to life.
Rama.
Rangi.
"Rappaccini's Daughter."
Raven.
Reaper (Death).
Reasonings (children's).
Re-birth.
Reciters.
Regeneration.
Regina coeli.
Relatives.
Religion.
Renascence of myths.
Reserve (children's).
Resurrection-flower.
Return of dead mother.
Rhea.
Rhymes (alphabet).
  (counting out).
Rhyming.
Rhythm.
Rice.
Richard Coeur de Lion.
Right (father).
Right (mother).
Rights (children's).
River-father.
River-mother.
Rivers.
Roaming.
Robberies.
Robin.
Rocks.
"Rogation."
Roggenmuhme.
Roggenmutter.
Roll-eating.
[Greek: Rombo].
"Rome (to show)."
Romulus and Remus.
Rosemary.
Rose of Jericho.
Roses.
"Rovers."
R. S. V. P.
Rules of same.
Rumina.
Ruripsken.
"Rye-aunt."

Sacred trees.
Sacrifice to lust.
Sacrifice of children.
Sand-hills.
"Sand-man."
Sand-pile, history of.
Sap.
Satan.
Satavahana.
School.
School-jargons.
--language.
--organism.
--revels.
--rights.
--society.
School in heaven.
Scrofula.
Sea.
Sea-father.
Sea-mother.
Seals.
Seclusion.
Secret languages.
Secret societies.
Seed.
Selection of doctors.
Selection of priests.
Semo.
Sentences (test).
Sermons (primitive).
Serpents.
Seventh daughter.
  son.
Sewing.
Sex and clothing.
"Sex, the speechless."
Shaman (child).
Sham-fights.
She-bear.
--goat.
--wolf.
Shepherds.
"Shoemaker."
"Shoe-string bow."
Shooting.
"Show (to), Rome."
"Show (to), Bremen Geese."
Shrimp-mother.
Sickness.
Siderum regina.
Sierra Madre.
Sign-language.
Signs for child.
  for father.
  for mother.
Signs of shaman.
Silk (corn).
Similia similibus.
Sindungo.
Singers (children).
Singing, goddess of.
Sire.
Sister-dawns.
Sitting-down.
Siwa.
Sky-father.
--god.
Sky-grandfather.
--land.
Sleep.
Sleep, goddess of.
Small.
Small holdings.
Small-pox.
Smell.
Smilax.
Smile-roses.
"Smoking."
Smoking (tobacco).
Snail-water.
Snakes.
Snow.
Snow-balling.
Social embryology.
Social factor, child as.
Social instinct.
Societies.
  (secret).
"Sock-wringer."
Sole.
Solomon.
Solomon's judgment.
  wisdom.
Soma.
Somatology.
Son.
Son, eldest.
  youngest.
Song.
"Sons of God."
"Sons of trees."
Sorcerers.
Sore.
Soul.
  (child's).
  (father's).
  (mother's).
Soul-bird.
--butterfly.
--leaf.
--star.
--tree.
Span.
Spear-throwing.
Speech.
--band.
--exercises.
--god.
Spelling-yells.
Spices.
Spinning.
Spirit-feeding.
--land.
--marriage.
Spirits.
Spots (moon).
Sprains.
Sprinkling.
Spygri.
Squalling.
Squirrel.
Srahmanadzi.
"Staccato cheer."
Standing, deities of.
Star-child.
--flower.
--soul.
  of Bethlehem.
Stars.
Statina (Dea).
St. Augustine.
  Austrebertha.
  Briocus.
  Catherine.
Stealing.
St. Francis.
  Frodibert.
  Genevieve.
Stick.
Still-born children.
Stilling the wind.
St. Nicholas.
Stomach.
Stones.
Stone-mother.
Stork.
Stork-flower.
--land.
Stork-men.
--names.
--stones.
Storm-laying.
--making.
Story-telling.
Stowish.
St. Patrick.
Strigalai.
String-puzzles.
Stroking.
St. Sampson.
Stuttering.
St. Vincent.
  Vitus.
Subdivisions of land.
Suckling.
"Suck-soul."
Sudiecky.
Sugar.
Sukia-woman.
Sun.
--children.
--father.
--god.
--goddess.
--mother.
Sunday-mother.
Sunset-land.
Surnames.
Survivals.
Swallows.
"Swan-child."
"Swan-stones."
Swans.
Swimming.
Swinging.
Sword.
Sycamore.
Sylvester (Pope).
Sympathy of nature.
Syrdak.
Syrinx.

Taboos.
Tales.
Talking birds.
Tamerlane.
Tamoi
Taper (magic).
Tata.
Tattooing.
"Taw."
Teacher (child).
  (mother).
Teachers (primitive).
Tears.
Teat.
Technology.
"Teethed babes."
"Teetotum."
Tekvov.
Tellus.
Temperance societies.
Terra.
Test-sentences.
Tests (physical).
Tezistecatl.
Theft.
Theocrite.
Thieves.
Thieves' fetiches.
  saint.
Thoughts (children's).
  (parents').
"Thread Needle."
Three Brothers.
"Three Dukes."
"Three Kings."
"Three Mary's."
Throwing.
"Thrush."
Thumb.
--lather.
--mother.
Thunder.
--birds.
--lather.
"Thunner spell."
Tihus (dolls).
Tilia.
Tiny.
Titistein.
Tobacco.
Toci.
Tongue.
"Tongue-cut."
"Tongue-tied."
Tooth-ache.
Topography.
Totemism.
Touching.
Toys.
Tradescantia.
Training of priests and shamans.
Transfer of character.
  of soul.
Transfusion.
Transmigration.
"Tread the Green Grass."
Tree of Knowledge.
  of Life.
  of milk.
  of souls.
Trees.
Tremsemutter.
Trinity.
Triplets.
Tulasi.
Tule-ema.
Tupi.
"Turkey-hunting."
"Turks."
Turtle.
Turtle-dove.
Tut-language.
Twenty-first son.
Twin-healers.
--heroes.
  luck-bringers.
"Twin-sisters."
Twin weather-makers.
Twins.
Twins' breath.

U. A. w. g. Ukko. Unbaptized children. Unborn children. "Unbridled tongue." "Uncle John." Undeformed.
Under-world visited. Upper jaw. Upper-world visited. Uranus. Urashima. Ut. Ut'set.

Vampires. "Van Moor." Varuna. Vatea. Vaterland. Vaterschacht. Vaterstadt. Vaticanus. "Velvets."
Venilia. Venus. Vermin. Veronica. Vestice. Vera madre. Violet. Viracocha. "Virginia Reel."
Virginity. Virgin Mary. Virgin-Mother. Virgins. Vishnu. Vision-seers (children). Voleta. Volumnus.
Vomiting. Vulcan.

Wainamoinen.
Walrus-fat.
War.
"Wassail."
Water.
--carrier.
--father.
--lilies.
"Water-man."
"Water-mother."
"Water-woman."
Weak children.
Wean.
Weasel.
Weather-makers (children).
Weddings.
Wednesday-mother.
Wee.
Weighing.
Wens.
Werwolves.
Whey.
Whipping.
Whiskey.
Whispering.
"White as Milk."
"White Caps."
"White Ladies."
"White lies."
Whiteness of hare.
Whitsuntide.
Whooping-cough.
"Widow and Daughters."
Widows.
"Wild baby."
"Wild boy."
Wild children.
  girls.
  huntsman.
  woman.
"Will."
Will-deities.
Will-o'-the-wisp.
Wills.
Wind-children.
--father.
--people.
--raiser.
--stiller.
Wisdom of childhood.
Wiseacre (child).
"Wise Child."
Wish-deities.
Witchcraft.
Witches (children).
Withering of trees.
Wit.
Wits, god of.
Wizards.
Wjeschtitza.
Wolf-children.
--stories.
Wolves.
Woman, as linguist.
  as poet.
  as teacher.
  position and place of.
Womanly, the eternal.
Woman's arts.
Woman's dress.
  share in primitive culture.
Wooden figure.
Wood-pigeons.
Word-interpretation.
Words descriptive of child.
World.
Worms.
Xmucane.
Xpiyacoc.
Yang.
"Yells" (college).
"Yeth hounds."
Y. M. C. A.
Yohmalteitl.
Young.
Young couples.
"Young Peoples' Societies."
"Young Templars."
Younger brother.
Youngest son.
Youth, eternal.
Y. P. S. C. E.
Yu.
Yum.
Y. W. C. A.
Zenzai.
Zeus.
Zinog.
Ziwa.
Zlata-Baba.

MENTAL DEVELOPMENT IN THE CHILD AND THE RACE.

METHODS AND PROCESSES.

BY JAMES MARK BALDWIN, M.A., Ph.D.

Stuart Professor of Psychology in Princeton University; Author of "Handbook of Psychology,"
"Elements of Psychology"; Co-Editor of "The Psychological Review."

WITH SEVENTEEN FIGURES AND TEN TABLES.

SECOND EDITION, CORRECTED.

Price $2.60, net.

NOTICES.

"The great problem of the evolution of mind has received many notable contributions towards
its solution of late years. We question, however, if there are any which, in time to come,
will occupy a higher place than the work now before us. This it owes partly to its subject,
partly to its treatment. Mr. Baldwin with rare skill has traced the thread of development from
individuals to races, and has shown how the element of heredity plays a much larger part than
is supposed in the economy of mental evolution.... The book is evidently the result of years
of close observation and study. Its method is admirable, the induction is broad and reliable,
while the conclusions drawn in most cases are both rigorously logical and avoid even the suspicion
of exaggeration. We predict a high place in the annals of biological science will yet be assigned
to this admirable work."--The Liberal.

"It is a most valuable contribution to biological psychology, which is a field of modern naturalism
in which few have labored."--The Critic.

"'Mental Development' must be regarded as an epoch-making book: it suggests a new field for
experiments and observations, and throws down the gauntlet to existing theories of mental growth."--The
Churchman.

"It is of the greatest value and importance."--The Outlook.

"The author emphasizes the motor elements in mental evolution, and thus introduces into psychogenesis
a point of view which is eminently characteristic of modern psychology.... This summary sketch
can give no idea of the variety of topics which Professor Baldwin handles or of the originality
with which the central thesis is worked out. No psychologist can afford to neglect the book,
and its second part will be eagerly expected."--PROF. TITCHENER, Cornell University.

THE INSTITUTES OF EDUCATION: COMPRISING A RATIONAL INTRODUCTION TO PSYCHOLOGY.

BY S. S. LAURIE, LL.D., F.R.S.E.

Professor of the Institutes and History of Education, University of Edinburgh; Author of "Metaphysica"
and "Ethica" etc.

16mo. Price $1.00, net.

NOTICE.

"That book is strongest which makes the reader think the most keenly, vigorously, and wisely,
and, judged by this standard, this seems to be the most useful book of the season. We would
put it in the hands of a working teacher more quickly than any other book that has come to
our desk for many a month."--Journal of Education.

A COURSE OF LECTURES ON THE GROWTH AND MEANS OF TRAINING THE MENTAL FACULTY.

DELIVERED IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE

BY FRANCIS WARNER, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S. (Eng.).

Physician to the London Hospital; Lecturer on Therapeutics and on Botany at the London Hospital
College; Formerly Hunterian Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the Royal College of Surgeons
of England.

12mo. Cloth. Price 90 cents, net.

NOTICES.

"It is original, thorough, systematic, and wonderfully suggestive. Every superintendent should
study this book. Few works have appeared lately which treat the subject under consideration
with such originality, vigor, or good sense."--Education.

"A valuable little treatise on the physiological signs of mental life in children, and on the
right way to observe these signs and classify pupils accordingly ... The book has great originality
and it should be very helpful to the teacher on a side of his work much neglected by the ordinary
treatises on pedagogy."--Literary World.

"The eminence and experience of the author, and the years of careful study he has devoted to
this and kindred subjects, are a sufficient guarantee for the value of the book; but those
who are fortunate enough to examine it will find their expectations more than fulfilled ...
A great deal may be learned from these lectures, and we strongly commend them to our readers."--Canada
Educational Journal.

MACMILLAN & CO.

66 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK.

