It fared even worse with Pepe, though, instead of the cries for pity, which had availed the
mayoral so little, he uttered nothing but low moans, that died away in the dust beneath him.
One might have thought that the extreme youth of the lad would have ensured him compassion;
but no such thing. The robbers were doubtless of Amposta; and, being known to him, dreaded
discovery. When both the victims had been rendered insensible, there was a short pause, and
a consultation in a low tone between the ruffians, who then proceeded to execute their plans.
The first went round to the left side of the diligence, and, having unhooked the iron shoe
and placed it under the wheel, as an additional security against escape, opened the door of
the interior, and mounted on the steps. I could hear him distinctly utter a terrible threat
in Spanish, and demand an ounce of gold from each of the passengers. This was answered by an
expostulation from the Valencian shopkeeper, who said that they had not so much money, but
what they had would be given willingly. There was then a jingling of purses, some pieces dropping
on the floor in the hurry and agitation of the moment. Having remained a short time at the
door of the interior, he did not come to the cabriolet, but passed at once to the rotunda.
Here he used greater caution, doubtless from having seen the evening before, at Amposta, that
it contained no women, but six young students, who were all stout fellows. They were made to
come down, one by one, from their strong hold, deliver their money and watches, and then lie
flat upon their faces in the road.

Meanwhile the second robber, after consulting with his companion, returned to the spot where
the zagal Pepe lay rolling from side to side. As he went towards him, he drew a knife from
the folds of his sash, and having opened it, placed one of his naked legs on either side of
his victim. Pushing aside the jacket of the youth, he bent forward and dealt him repeated blows
in every part of the body. The young priest, my companion, shrunk back shuddering into his
corner, and hid his face within his trembling fingers; but my own eyes seemed spell-bound,
for I could not withdraw them from the cruel spectacle, and my ears were more sensible than
ever. Though the windows at the front and sides were still closed, I could distinctly hear
each stroke of the murderous knife, as it entered its victim. It was not a blunt sound as of
a weapon that meets with positive resistance, but a hissing noise, as if the household implement,
made to part the bread of peace, performed unwillingly its task of treachery. This moment was
the unhappiest of my life; and it struck me at the time, that if any situation could be more
worthy of pity, than to die the dog's death of poor Pepe, it was to be compelled to witness
his fate, without the power to aid him.

Having completed the deed to his satisfaction, this cold-blooded murderer came to the door
of the cabriolet, and endeavoured to open it. He shook it violently, calling to us to assist
him; but it had chanced hitherto, that we had always got out on the other side, and the young
priest, who had never before been in a diligence, thought, from the circumstance, that there
was but one door, and therefore answered the fellow that he must go to the other side. On the
first arrival of these unwelcome visitors, I had taken a valuable watch which I wore from my
waistcoat pocket, and slipped it into my boot; but when they fell to beating in the heads of
our guides, I bethought me that the few dollars I carried in my purse might not satisfy them,
and replaced it again in readiness to be delivered at the shortest notice. These precautions
were, however, unnecessary. The third ruffian, who had continued to make the circuit of the
diligence with his musket in his hand, paused a moment in the road a-head of us, and having
placed his head to the ground, as if to listen, presently came and spoke in an under tone to
his companions. They stood for a moment over the mayoral, and struck his head with the butts
of their muskets, whilst the fellow who had before used the knife returned to make a few farewell
thrusts, and in another moment they had all disappeared from around us.

In consequence of the darkness, which was only partially dispelled in front of the diligence
by the lantern, which had enabled me to see what occurred so immediately before me, we were
not at once sensible of the departure of the robbers, but continued near half an hour after
their disappearance in the same situation in which they left us. The short breathings and the
chattering of teeth, lately so audible from within the interior, gradually subsided, and were
succeeded by whispers of the females, and soon after by words pronounced in a louder tone;
whilst our mangled guides, by groans and writhings, gave evidence of returning animation.

Our first care, when thus left to ourselves, was to see if anything could be done for our unfortunate
guides. We found them rolling over in the dust, and moaning inarticulately, excepting that
the conductor would occasionally murmur forth some of those sainted names whose aid he had
vainly invoked in the moment of tribulation. Having taken down the light from the top of the
coach, we found them so much disfigured with bruises and with blood, that recognition would
have been impossible. The finery of poor Pepe, his silver buttons and his sash of silk, were
scarcely less disfigured than his features. There happened to be in our party a student of
medicine, who now took the lead in the Samaritan office of binding, with pieces of linen and
pocket handkerchiefs, the wounds of these unhappy men.

The wounded men were at length placed in a cart, and sent back slowly to Amposta, the mayoral
showing some signs of returning sensibility, but the unfortunate Pepe evidently in his last
agony. The diligence proceeded on its route, and stopped to breakfast at Vinaroz.

The kitchen of the posada at Vinaroz offered a scene of unusual confusion. The hostess was
no other than the mother of Pepe, a very decent-looking Catalan woman, who, I understood, had
been sent there the year before by the Diligence Company, which is concerned in all the inns
at which their coaches stop throughout the line. She had already been told of the probable
fate of her son, and was preparing to set off for Amposta in the deepest affliction; and yet
her sorrow, though evidently real, was singularly combined with her habitual household cares.
The unusual demand for breakfast by fourteen hungry passengers had created some little confusion,
and the poor woman, instead of leaving these matters to take care of themselves, felt the force
of habit, and was issuing a variety of orders to her assistant; nor was she unmindful of her
appearance, but had already changed her frock and stockings, and thrown on her mantilla, preparatory
to departure. It was indeed a singular and piteous sight to see the poor perplexed woman changing
some fish that were frying, lest they should be burnt on one side, adjusting and repinning
her mantilla, and sobbing and crying all the while. When the man came, however, to say that
the mule was in readiness, every thing was forgotten but the feelings of the mother, and she
hurried off in deep and unsuppressed affliction.

