It seems to me more and more as I live longer, that most poetry and most literature and particularly
the literature of the past is discordant with the vastness and variety, the reserves and resources
and recuperations of life as we live it to-day. It is the expression of life under cruder and
more rigid conditions than ours, lived by people who loved and hated more naïvely, aged sooner
and died younger than we do. Solitary persons and single events dominated them as they do not
dominate us. We range wider, last longer, and escape more and more from intensity towards understanding.
And already this astounding blow begins to take its place among other events, as a thing strange
and terrible indeed, but related to all the strangeness and mystery of life, part of the universal
mysteries of despair and futility and death that have troubled my consciousness since childhood.
For a time the death of Mary obscured her life for me, but now her living presence is more
in my mind again. I begin to see that it is the reality of her existence and not the accidents
of her end that matter most. It signifies less that she should have flung out of life when
it seemed that her living could only have meant disaster to herself and to all she loved, than
that all her life should have been hampered and restricted. Through all her life this brave
and fine and beautiful being was for the most part of her possibilities, wasted in a splendid
setting, magnificently wasted if you will, but wasted.

§ 2

It was that idea of waste that dominated my mind in a strange interview I had with Justin.
For it became necessary for me to see Justin in order that we should stamp out the whispers
against her that followed her death. He had made it seem an accidental death due to an overdose
of the narcotic she employed, but he had not been able to obliterate altogether the beginnings
of his divorce proceedings. There had been talk on the part of clerks and possible witnesses.
But of all that I need not tell you here; what matters is that Justin and I could meet without
hatred or violence. I met a Justin grey-haired and it seemed to me physically shrunken, more
than ever slow-speaking, with his habit of attentive silences more marked and that dark scar
spread beyond his brows.

We had come to our parting, we had done our business with an affectation of emotional aloofness,
and then suddenly he gripped me by the arm. "Stratton," he said, "we two---- We killed her.
We tore her to pieces between us...."

I made no answer to this outbreak.

"We tore her to pieces," he repeated. "It's so damned silly. One gets angry--like an animal."

I became grotesquely anxious to assure him that, indeed, she and I had been, as they say, innocent
throughout our last day together. "You were wrong in all that," I said. "She kept her faith
with you. We never planned to meet and when we met----. If we had been brother and sister----.
Indeed there was nothing."

"I suppose," he said, "I ought to be glad of that. But now it doesn't seem to matter very much.
We killed her.... What does that matter to me now?"

§ 3

And it is upon this effect of sweet and beautiful possibilities, caught in the net of animal
jealousies and thoughtless motives and ancient rigid institutions, that I would end this writing.
In Mary, it seems to me, I found both womanhood and fellowship, I found what many have dreamt
of, love and friendship freely given, and I could do nothing but clutch at her to make her
my possession. I would not permit her to live except as a part of my life. I see her now and
understand her better than when she was alive, I recall things that she said and wrote and
it is clear to me, clearer perhaps than it ever was to her, that she, with her resentment at
being in any sense property, her self-reliant thought, her independence of standard, was the
very prototype of that sister-lover who must replace the seductive and abject womanhood, owned,
mastered and deceiving, who waste the world to-day. And she was owned, she was mastered, she
was forced into concealment. What alternative was there for her? What alternative is there
for any woman? She might perhaps have kept her freedom by some ill-paid work and at the price
of every other impulse in her swift and eager nature. She might have become one of those poor
neuters, an independent woman.... Life was made impossible for her and she was forced to die,
according to the fate of all untimely things. She was destroyed, not merely by the unconsidered,
undisciplined passions of her husband and her lover, but by the vast tradition that sustains
and enforces the subjugation of her sex. What I had from her, and what she was, is but a mere
intimation of all that she and I might have made of each other and the world.

And perhaps in this story I have said enough for you to understand why Mary has identified
herself with something world-wide, has added to herself a symbolical value, and why it is I
find in the whole crowded spectacle of mankind, a quality that is also hers, a sense of fine
things entangled and stifled and unable to free themselves from the ancient limiting jealousies
which law and custom embody. For I know that a growing multitude of men and women outwear the
ancient ways. The blood-stained organized jealousies of religious intolerance, the delusions
of nationality and cult and race, that black hatred which simple people and young people and
common people cherish against all that is not in the likeness of themselves, cease to be the
undisputed ruling forces of our collective life. We want to emancipate our lives from this
slavery and these stupidities, from dull hatreds and suspicion. The ripening mind of our race
tires of these boorish and brutish and childish things. A spirit that is like hers, arises
and increases in human affairs, a spirit that demands freedom and gracious living as our inheritance
too long deferred, and I who loved her so blindly and narrowly now love her spirit with a dawning
understanding.

I will not be content with that compromise of jealousies which is the established life of humanity
to-day. I give myself, and if I can I will give you, to the destruction of jealousy and of
the forms and shelters and instruments of jealousy, both in my own self and in the thought
and laws and usage of the world.