"That is what I said to Alan, but he would not listen to me. 'Miss Campion was not bound to
pay her father's debt,' he said, 'any more than Mr. Campion, and therefore it was wrong for
you to ask either of them. But to go to a woman,' he said, 'was more than wrong, it was mean;
and I can never look in her face again if you do not take it back and beg her pardon.' He can
be very stern, my dear, when he is not pleased, and just now I could not disobey him if he
was to tell me to go on my knees through London town."

"How did he know that I had paid you?"

"Well, it was yesterday; we had been in great trouble"--and here Mrs. Bundlecombe broke down,
having been very near doing it from the moment when she entered the room. Lettice comforted
her as well as she could, and made her drink a glass of wine; and so she gradually recovered
her voice.

"Well, as I was saying, my dear, in the evening, when we were quiet by ourselves, he said to
me, 'Aunt Bessy, I met Miss Campion last night, and I gather from what she told me that you
had seen one another in London. You never mentioned that to me. When was it?' I did not want
to make a clean breast of it, but he has such a way of cross-questioning one that I could not
keep it back; and that is how it all came out. So you must put up with it, for my sake. I dare
not touch the money again, was it ever so."

"Then I must speak to Mr. Walcott about it myself, the next time I see him, for I think he
has not been just to you."

"Oh yes, my dear, he has! He is always so just, poor boy!" There was an ominous quaver here.
"And it is not as if we wanted money. I had three or four hundred from selling the business,
and Alan has nearly that every year--but now he gives two pounds a week----"

Then there was another collapse, and Lettice thought it best to let the old woman have her
cry out. Only she went over and sat by her side, and took one of the thin hands between her
own, and cried just a little to keep her company.

"Oh, my dear," said Mrs. Bundlecombe at last, "it is such a comfort to have a woman to talk
to. I have not had a good talk to one of my own sex since I came up to London, unless it is
the landlady in Montagu Place, and she is a poor old antiquity like myself, with none of your
soft and gentle ways. It would do me good to tell you all we have gone through since that bad
creature found us out, but I have no right to make you miserable with other people's sorrows.
No--I will go away before I begin to be foolish again; and my boy will be waiting for me."

"If you think Mr. Walcott would not object to your telling me, and if it will be any relief
to you, do! Indeed, I think I would rather hear it."

So Mrs. Bundlecombe poured out her tale to sympathetic ears, and gave Lettice an account of
Alan's married life so far as she knew it, and of the return of the runaway, and of the compact
which Alan had made with her, and of the post-cards, and the slandering and the threats.

"And the night before last he came home in a terrible rage--that would be after seeing you,
my dearie--and he walked about the room for ever so long before he would tell me a word. And
then he said,

"'I have seen her again, Aunt Bessy, and she has molested me horribly out in the street, when
I was with----'

"And there he stopped short, and fell on the sofa, and cried--yes, dear, he cried like a woman,
as if his heart would break; and I guessed why it was, though he did not mention your name.
For you know," said Mrs. Bundlecombe, looking at Lettice with mournful eyes, "or leastways
you don't know, how he worships the ground----"

"Don't," said Lettice, "don't tell me more than he would like. I--I cannot bear to hear it all!"

"Maybe I have said too much; but you must forgive me if I have. And so, when he was a bit better
he said that he should go next morning and tell the lawyer that she had broken her compact,
and he would not pay her any more money, but give her notice of the divorce.

"'All the heart and all the mercy is crushed out of me,' he said; 'she has turned her venom
on her, and she shall suffer for it.'

"So in the morning he went to his lawyer. And it was the day when she used to call for her
money, and she must have called for it and been refused, for early in the afternoon she came
round to our lodgings, and went on like a mad woman in the street, shrieking and howling, and
saying the most horrible things you can imagine. I could not tell you half she said, about--about
us all. Oh dear, oh dear! I had heard what one of those Frenchwomen could be, but I never saw
anything like it before, and I hope I never may again!"

"Was he there?"

"Yes, he was there. And he said to me, 'If I give her in charge, it will have to go into the
police court, and anything is better than that!' But then she mentioned--she began to say other
things, and he said, 'My God, if this is not stopped, I shall do her an injury!' So I went
out, and fetched a policeman, and that put an end to it for the time.

"You can fancy that my poor Alan is nearly out of his mind, not knowing what she may be up
to next. One thing he is afraid of more than anything: and to be sure I don't think he cares
for anything else. Ever since I let out your name on that first night he has been dreading
what might happen to you through her spite and malice!"

Lettice was deeply moved by Mrs. Bundlecombe's story, and as the old woman finished she kissed
her on the cheek.

"Tell him," she said, "that I have heard what he has suffered--that I asked you, and you told
me. Tell him not to think of me because I am forewarned, and am not afraid of anything she
can do. And tell him that he should not think of punishing her, for the punishment she has
brought upon herself is enough."

"I will repeat it word for word, my dearie, and it will comfort him to have a message from
you. But I doubt he will not spare her now, for she is more than flesh and blood can bear."

Then Lettice took her visitor to her mother's room, and made tea for her, and left the two
to compare notes with each other for half an hour. Thus Mrs. Bundlecombe went away comforted,
and took some comfort back with her to the dingy room in Alfred Place.

It was hard for Lettice to turn to her work again, as though nothing had happened since she
last laid down her pen. The story to which she had listened, and the picture which it brought
so vividly before her mind of the lonely, persecuted man who pined for her love when she had
no right to give it, nor he to ask for it, compelled her to realize what she had hitherto fought
away and kept in the background. She could no longer cheat herself with the assurance that
her heart was in her own keeping, and that her feeling for Alan was one of mere womanly pity.

She loved him; and she would not go on lying to her own heart by saying that she did not.

Her character was not by any means perfect; but, as with all of us, a mixture of good and ill--the
evil and the good often springing out of the same inborn qualities of her nature. She had a
keen sense of enjoyment in hearing and seeing new things, in broaching new ideas and entering
upon fresh fields of thought; and her appetite in these respects was all the stronger for the
gloom and seclusion in which the earlier years of her womanhood had been spent. She was lavish
in generosity to her friends, and did not count the cost when she wanted to be kind. But as
the desire for enjoyment may be carried to the length of self-indulgence, so there is often
a selfishness in giving and a recklessness in being over kind. Lettice, moreover, was extravagant
in the further sense that she did not look much beyond the present month or present year of
existence. She thought her sun would always shine.

Her blemishes were quite compatible with her virtues, with the general right-mindedness and
brave performance of duty which had hitherto marked her life. She was neither bad nor perhaps
very good, but just such a woman as Nature selects to be the instrument of her most mysterious
workings.

If Lettice admitted to herself the defeat which she had sustained in one quarter, she was all
the less disposed to accept a check elsewhere. Her will to resist a hopeless love was broken
down, but that only increased the strength of her determination to conceal the weakness from
every eye, to continue the struggle of life as though there were no flaw in her armor, and
to work indefatigably for the independence of thought and feeling and action which she valued
above all other possessions.

So she chained herself to her desk, and finished her romance, which in its later chapters gained
intensity of pathos and dramatic insight from the constant immolation of her own heart as she
imagined the martyrdoms and sacrifices of others.

The story which was to make her famous had been conceived in sorrow, and it became associated
with the greatest sufferings of her life. She had scarcely sent it off to the publisher, in
the month of October, when her mother, who had been gradually failing both in body and in mind,
quietly passed away in her sleep. No death could have been easier. The heart had done its work,
and ceased to beat; but though Lettice was spared the grief which she would have felt if her
mother had lingered long on a painful death-bed, the shock was still very severe. For a time
she was entirely prostrated by it. The manifold strain upon her mind had tried her too much,
and for several weeks after the funeral Clara Graham was nursing her through a dangerous illness.

CHAPTER XVII.

"TO THY CHAMBER WINDOW, SWEET!"

The message which had been sent by Lettice to Alan, by the mouth of Mrs. Bundlecombe, had not
lost much in its transit.

"Tell him," she had said, "that I have heard what he has suffered. Tell him not to trouble
for me because I am forewarned, and am not afraid of anything she can do. And tell him that
he should not think of punishing her, for the punishment she has brought on herself is enough."

It had consoled him greatly to have this assurance of her sympathy. He did not presume too
far on the mere fact of her having sent him a message, and the words themselves did not amount
to very much. But if she had cared nothing at all, she would have said nothing at all; and
perhaps the description which his aunt gave him of Lettice's kindness to her, and of her interest
in the story which she had heard, did more to appease his heart than anything else.

It was his full intention to do all that was possible to deliver himself from the bondage of
his unhappy marriage, and in the meantime he would take every precaution to prevent Lettice
from being annoyed by this termagant of a woman. But he rejoiced to think that Lettice herself
was in some manner prepared for what might happen to her, and was on her guard against the danger.

There was a certain sweetness in the thought that they shared this danger between them, that
his enemy was hers also, and that she had voluntarily ranged herself by his side. A feeling
of satisfaction flashed through his mind at this community of interests with the woman whom
he loved, but it was merged at once in the conviction that he could not be content for one
single moment to leave her exposed to the possibility of insult from Cora.

She had commanded him not to punish his wife. It was very difficult for him to obey. This bitterness
against the degraded wretch was roused to its highest pitch by her last outbreak. If she would
only die out of his life--die in any sense, so that he might hear and see her no more--he would
not ask for her punishment. If she would cease to be his wife, and enable him to stand beside
the pure and steadfast woman whose gentle influence had transformed his soul, he would forgive
her. There was no way in which this could be done except by exposing her before the world,
and depriving her of all right to look to him for support, and in the doing of this he knew
full well there would be no room for weak pity and misgiving.

He could not forgive her if that was to mean that he should keep her as his wife, and go on
trying to buy her silence. He did not want to inflict pain upon her out of mere resentment,
and if he could have his way in the matter of the divorce he was quite willing that she should
have some of his money. He would be so rich without her that he would gladly go out into the
street then and there, stripped of everything that he possessed, if in that way he could shake
off the galling fetters that weighed upon him.

To-morrow he would tell his lawyer that she was to have her weekly money again, on condition
of her solemnly renewing her engagement not to molest him in any way, and not to interfere
with any of his friends. She would probably regard the offer as a sign of weakness, but at
any rate it would put her on her good behavior for a time. He would do this for Lettice's sake,
if not for his own.

He knew with whom he had to deal, and of what this raving woman was capable. If she had been
English, or German, and had gone utterly to the bad, she might by this time have been lethargically
besotted, and would have given him very little trouble so long as she received her two pounds
a week. But Cora was Latin, and belonged to the same race as the poet who drew the harpies,
and the Gorgons, and mad Dido, and frenzied Camilla, who had painted in a hundred forms the
unrestrained fury of his countrywomen, when the grace and tenderness of their sex had deserted
them. She also was besotted at times, but whenever she was not besotted her mind was full of
vivacity, and her anger was as a whirlwind, and neither fear nor prudence could hold her in
check. Alan knew her only too well, even before she had tried to kill him in France, and he
had no doubt that the outbreak of the last few days was only the beginning of a persecution
which she would maintain so long as she had the power to injure him.

For himself he had already resolved what to do. Even his aunt must not be subject to these
annoyances, and he bade her pack up her things and go to an old friend of hers in the country.
He would leave his present lodging and get housed somewhere out of her reach. Why should he
remain at her mercy, when it did not matter to any one where he lived, and when certainly no
householder would endure a lodger who was liable to be visited by a madwoman?

But Lettice? How could she be defended from attack? It was clear that Cora was jealous of her,
or at all events maliciously set against her. It had required very little to produce that effect.
Heaven knew that Lettice had done nothing to excite jealousy even in the mind of a blameless
wife, entitled to the most punctilious respect and consideration of her husband. If only Lettice
could be placed in safety, carried away from London to some happy haven where no enemy could
follow and torment her, and where he might guard her goings and comings, he would be content
to play the part of a watch-dog, if by that means he could be near her and serve her!

Something impelled him to get up and leave the house. It was dark by this time, and he wandered
aimlessly through the streets; but by and by, without any conscious intention, he found himself
walking rapidly in the direction of Hammersmith.

Eight o'clock had struck when he left his lodgings in Alfred Place, and it was after nine when
he stood at the corner where the main-road passes by the entrance to Brook Green. He had never
once looked behind him; and, even if he had, he would scarcely have detected in the darkness
the figure which dogged his steps with obstinate persistence.

He hesitated for a minute or more at the corner, and then walked slowly round the Green. Opposite
to Maple Cottage there was a large tree, and underneath it, barely visible from the pavement,
a low wooden seat. Here he sat down, and watched the dimly-lighted windows.

Why had he come there? What was in his mind when he turned his face to Lettice's cottage, and
sat patiently looking out of the darkness? He could not have answered the questions if they
had been put to him. But he felt a sense of comfort in knowing that she was so near, and pleased
himself with the thought that even for these few minutes he was guarding her from unseen dangers.

He may have been sitting there for half-an-hour--a hundred images chasing each other through
his disordered brain--when suddenly a blind in the cottage was drawn up. For a moment he saw
the form of Lettice as she stood at the window, with a lamp in her hand, framed like a picture
by the ivy which covered the wall. Then the shutters closed, and he was left alone in the darkness.
Alone, as he thought: but he was not alone. He had started to his feet when her face appeared
at the window, and stood with his arms extended, as though he would reach through space to
touch her. Then, as she disappeared, he softly murmured her name.

"Lettice! My Lettice!"

A harsh laugh grated on his ears. It came from the other side of the tree, and Alan sprang
in the direction of the sound. He need not have hastened, for his wife had no desire to conceal
her presence. She was coming forward to meet him; and there, in the middle of the Green, shrouded
in almost complete darkness, the two stood face to face.

"Tiens, mon ami; te voilà!"

She was in her mocking mood--certain to be quiet for a few minutes, as Alan told himself the
moment he recognized her. What was she doing here? He had thought that she did not know where
Lettice lived; how had she discovered the place? It did not occur to him that his own folly
had betrayed the secret; on the contrary, he blessed the instinct which had brought him to
the spot just when he was wanted. All this passed through his mind in a couple of seconds.

"Yes, I am here. And you! How came you here?"

"Nothing more simple. I came on my feet. But you walked quick, my dear; I could hardly keep
up with you at times."

"You followed me!"

"Yes, I followed you--all the way from Alfred Place. I wanted so much to know where she lived,
and I said, 'He shall show me. He, who would not for worlds that I should know--he will be
my sign-post.' Pouf! you men are stupid creatures. I must be cunning with you, my good husband
who would leave me to starve--who would divorce me, and marry this woman, and cut the hated
Cora out of your life. But no, my poor child, it shall not be. So long as we live, we two,
Cora will never desert you. It is my only consolation, that I shall be able to follow every
step of your existence as I followed you to-night, without your knowing where I am, or at what
moment I may stand before you."

"Let us walk," said Alan, "and talk things over. Why stand here?"

"You are afraid that I shall make another scandal, and rouse the virtuous Lettice from her
pillow, with the sound of her name screamed out in the night? Ha, ha! How the poor coward trembles!
Have no fear! Twice in a week your brutal police have seized me, and I do not love their kind
attentions. Now and then I may defy them, when I need an excitement of that kind; but not to-night.
To-night I mean to be clever, and show you how I can twist a cold-blooded Englishman round
my finger. If you go, then I will scream--it is a woman's bludgeon, my child, as her tongue
is her dagger. Bah! be quiet and listen to me. You shall not divorce me, for if you try I will
accuse you of all sorts of things--basenesses that will blast your name for ever."

"I am not afraid of you," said Alan. "For anything I know, you have a pistol under your cloak--shoot
me. I took you to love and cherish, and you have made my life a hell. What good is it? Shoot!"

"No; that makes a noise. In Paris I would shoot you, for it is you who have destroyed my life.
But in London you do not understand these things, so that I must act differently. Listen! If
you try to divorce me, and do not pay me my money, I have one or two little pistol-shots à
l'anglaise which will suit you perfectly. Shall I tell you what I would say, to anyone who
would listen to me--in court, in the street, anywhere?"

"As you please."

"First, that you fired at me at Culoz, and that I can bring forward witnesses of the attempted
assassination."

"That is pure nonsense; I am not to be frightened by such child's play."

"Second, so far as the divorce is concerned, that whatever my offence may have been, you have
condoned it. Do you not understand, my friend? Did I not find shelter in your rooms in Montagu
Place? I would have a good lawyer, who would know how to make the most of that."

"Have you nothing stronger to rely on?"

"Listen; you shall tell me. My third pistol-shot is this--that you were wont to make private
assignations with Miss Lettice Campion, and that you had been seen dropping from her window,
here in Brook Green, at midnight. What do you think of that, for example?"

"Vile wretch!" said Alan. "Your malice has robbed you of your senses. Who would believe you?"

"Do not be a child. Are you English, and do you ask who would believe a woman telling these
tales of a man? Do you not know that men are ruined every day in England by the lies of women?
The better the man, the more abandoned the woman, the more incredible her lies, so much the
more certain is his condemnation. Bah, you know it! I should not hesitate about the lies, and,
if I made them sufficiently repulsive, your noble countrymen would not hesitate to believe
them. Do you doubt it? What think you of my plan?"

He made no answer; he was trying to command himself.

"Now, tell me! Shall I have my money as usual?"

"Before I left the house," he said, "I had resolved that the money ought to be paid to you.
So long as you are my wife, you ought not to starve."

"Good! It is an annuity for life!"

"No. I would give a hand or an eye to be free from you."

"They would be useless to me, my dear. Would you give the fair fame of Lettice? It will cost
no less."

"Let that pass!"

"Yes, we will let that pass. Then, I receive my money as usual?"

"Go to Mr. Larmer to-morrow; he will pay it."

"I hate this Mr. Larmer--he is an animal without manners. But no matter. I am glad you are
reasonable, my friend. You buy a respite for a few weeks. I shall forget you with all my heart--until
I have a migraine, and suddenly remember you again. But it is too cheap; I cannot live decently
on this paltry sum. Good-bye, my child--and gare aux-migraines!"

She was gone, and Alan was left alone. He had dug his nails into the palms of his hands, in
the effort to restrain himself, until the blood came; and long after the mocking fiend had
departed he sat silent on the bench, half-stupefied with rage and despair.

Was he really the coward that he felt himself, to listen to her shameless threats, and tremble
at the thought of her machinations? Lettice had told him that she was not afraid; but ought
he not to be afraid for her, and do all that was possible to avert a danger from her which
he would not fear on his own account?

Ah, if he could only take counsel with her, how wise and brave she would be; how he would be
encouraged by her advice and strengthened by her sympathy! But he knew that it was impossible
to call to his aid the woman whom it was his first duty to protect from annoyance. She should
never know the torture he was enduring until it had came to an end, and he could tell it with
his own lips as an indifferent story of the past.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A SLEEPY NOOK.

Three miles from Angleford, on the other side of the river, and hidden away by trees on every
side, sleeps the lazy little village of Birchmead. So lazy is the place--so undisturbed have
been its slumbers, from generation to generation, that it might puzzle the most curious to
think why a village should be built there at all. There is no ford through the river, and,
though a leaky ferryboat makes occasional journeys from one side to the other, the path which
leads to the bank is too precipitous for any horse to tread. The only route by which a cart
can enter Birchmead branches off from the Dorminster Road, across a quarter of a mile of meadows:
and when the gate of the first meadow is closed, the village is completely shut in on every
side. The world scarcely knows it, and it does not know the world--its life is "but a sleep
and a forgetting."

The place has a history of its own, which can be told in a couple of sentences. Two hundred
years ago an eccentric member of the family to which the country-side belonged had chosen to
set up here a little community on his own account, shaped on a model which, universally applied
would doubtless regenerate the world. He built, out of stone, a farmhouse and barns, and a
score of cottages for his working-men, and there he spent his life and his money, nursing for
some thirty years his dream of hard work and perfect satisfaction. Then he died, and a farmer
without his faith and wealth succeeded him, and the hamlet lost its originality, and became
as much like other hamlets as its love of sleep and pride of birth would allow.

One thing saves it from desertion and extinction. It has a reputation, over half a county,
for being one of the most healthy and life-prolonging spots in England. It certainly contains
a remarkable number of old men and women, some of whom have come from the neighboring towns
to end their lives in the weather-proof stone cottages and fertile allotments which remain
at this day precisely as they were built and measured out by the philanthropic squire in the
seventeenth century. Other cottages have been run up in the meantime, and a few villas of a
more pretentious character; but there is always a brisk competition for the substantial domiciles,
as snug and sound as any almshouse, which encircle the village green of Birchmead.

In one of these cottages Mrs. Bundlecombe found a refuge when Alan sent her away from London.
It was in the occupation of an old friend with whom she had been on intimate terms at Thorley--a
widow like herself, blessed by Heaven with a perennial love of flowers and vegetables, and
recognized by all her neighbors as the best gardener and neatest housewife in the community.
With Mrs. Chigwin, Alan's aunt was happier than she had ever hoped to be again, and the only
drawback to her felicity was the thought of her nephew's troubles and solitude.

The next cottage to Mrs. Chigwin's was inhabited by old Mrs. Harrington, the grandmother of
Lettice's first maid. There had been no love lost between Mrs. Bundlecombe and Mrs. Harrington,
when they once lived in the same town. The grudge had arisen out of a very small matter. The
bookseller's' wife had sold a Bible to Mrs. Harrington, in the absence of her husband, for
twopence more than Mr. Bundlecombe had demanded for the same book, from some common acquaintance
of both parties to the bargain, on the previous day; and this common acquaintance having seen
the book and depreciated it a few weeks later, the purchaser had an abiding sense of having
been outrageously duped and cheated. She had come to the shop and expressed herself to this
effect, in no moderate terms; and Mrs. Bundlecombe, whilst returning the twopence, had made
some disparaging remarks on the other lady's manners, meanness, dress, age, and general inferiority.
The affront had never been quite forgotten on either side, and it was not without much ruffling
of their mental plumage that the two old bodies found themselves established within a few yards
of each other.

The squire's cottages at Birchmead were detached, but their ample gardens had only a low wall
between them, so that the neighboring occupiers could not well avoid an occasional display
of their mutual disposition, whether good or bad. It was close upon winter when Mrs. Bundlecombe
arrived in the village, and very wet weather, so that there was no immediate clashing of souls
across the garden wall; but in November there came a series of fine warm days, when no one
who had a garden could find any excuse for staying indoors. Accordingly, one morning Mrs. Chigwin,
who knew what was amiss between her friends, seeing Mrs. Harrington pacing the walk on the
other side of the wall, determined to bring about a meeting, and, if possible, a reconciliation.

"Elizabeth, my dear, that gravel looks perfectly dry. You must come out in the sun, and see
the last of my poor flowers."

"Martha Chigwin," said her visitor, with a solemn face; "do you see that woman?"

"Yes, I see her. What then?"

"I do not nurse wrath, my love, but I cannot abide her."

"Are not six years long enough to remember a little thing of that sort? Come along, Elizabeth;
you will find that she has grown quite civil and pleasant-spoken since you used to know her."

So they went out into the garden, and the two ancient foes sniffed and bridled at each other
as they approached through the transparent screen of tall yellow chrysanthemums which lined
Mrs. Chigwin's side of the wall.

"Mrs. Harrington," said the peacemaker, "there is no need for me to introduce you to my old
friend, Elizabeth Bundlecombe, who has come to pay me a nice long visit. We shall be her neighbors
and close friends, I hope, and if you will do me the favor to come in this afternoon and drink
a cup of tea with us, we shall be very glad to see you."

"Thank you kindly, Mrs. Chigwin. Good-morning to you, Mrs. Bundlecombe. I hear you have been
living in London, ma'am, quite grand, as the saying is!"

"No, Mrs. Harrington, not grand at all, ma'am. Don't say so. I have known what trouble is since
my poor dear husband died, and I shall never feel like being grand again."

"Never again, ma'am? Well, I am sure that Mrs. Bundlecombe knows how to bear her fortune, whether
good or bad. Did you say never again, ma'am?"

The old lady seemed to take this phrase as a kind of comprehensive and dignified apology for
the past, which ought to be met in a conciliatory manner.

"Well, well, Mrs. Bundlecombe, bygones is bygones, and there's no more to be said about it.
Not but what principle is principle, be it twopence or twenty pounds."

"Allowance must be made, Mrs. Harrington, for the feelings of the moment."

"On both sides, ma'am," said Mrs. Harrington.

"Like reasonable parties," said Mrs. Bundlecombe.

Then they nodded at each other with much vigor, and shook hands across the top of the wall
through the branches of the chrysanthemums. Thus vaguely, but with a clear understanding on
the part of both combatants, peace was made, and good relations were established. Mrs. Chigwin
was delighted at the easy way in which the difficulty had been overcome, and in the afternoon
she treated her friends in such a genuinely hospitable and considerate fashion that they were
soon perfectly at their ease. Indeed, the three old people became very intimate, and spent
their Christmas together in peace and charity.

