MY DEAR MRS. MAYNE CHANCE,--Ever since my return from the visit which gave me so much happiness
in your society and that of your dear daughter, I have wondered whether I dared address you
upon a point which concerns me intimately. Have you reason to suppose that her affections are
engaged in any quarter? Believe me that I seek this information from no idle curiosity, but
solely that I may know whether there is any obstacle to my making a certain proposal. I naturally
shrink from intruding myself between a mother and daughter whose companionship is so close
and am well aware of the disparity in our ages, but if you could encourage me to proceed you
would confer the greatest happiness upon a very lonely man.

  Believe me, Yours very sincerely,
    THOMAS CRABBE HERMITAGE.

  Mrs. Mayne Chance to Mr. Crabbe Hermitage.
  April 4th.

MY DEAR MR. CRABBE HERMITAGE,--Your letter has come as the greatest surprise. I suppose mothers
cannot expect to keep for ever at their daughters' side, but the parting is robbed of its bitterness
when other considerations are involved.

I questioned the dear child this morning and she confessed, as indeed I suspected, that she
is not indifferent to the attentions of the son of a neighbour of ours. But anyhow there need
be no obstacle in that quarter. She is far too sensible and unselfish, as only I know. Surely
there is not such a disparity of age as you seem to think! But perhaps I have said too much.

  Most sincerely yours,
    MELISSA MAYNE CHANCE.

  Mr. Crabbe Hermitage to Miss Chance.
  April 5th.

MY DEAR MISS CHANCE,--I wrote to your dear mother two days ago to endeavour to ascertain whether
you would view favourably the proposal which I wished to make. Her reply was, on the whole,
encouraging, but it is far from being my wish that in seeking my own happiness you should sacrifice
your own. More I will not permit myself to add until you have reassured my mind.

  Believe me, Your sincere Friend,
    THOS. CRABBE HERMITAGE.

  From Miss Chance to Mr. Crabbe Hermitage.
  April 6th.

DEAR MR. CRABBE HERMITAGE,--Yes, mother told me all about it, and I think it is perfectly lovely.
Of course I would never stand in the way of your happiness and you need not consider me at
all. She is so happy about it, and of course I am too.

  Yours very sincerely, EDITH CHANCE.

  From Mr. Crabbe Hermitage to Mrs. Mayne Chance.
  April 7th.

MY DEAR MRS. MAYNE CHANCE,--I have received a letter from dearest Edith which removes the only
obstacle to the realization of the wish of my heart. Rest assured that my every endeavour shall
be to prove worthy of this great happiness. If quite convenient I hope to call on the 9th instant
to offer myself in person.

  Believe me, Your sincere Friend,
    THOS.

MY DEAR THOMAS,--For I must call you this without waiting till to morrow! I knew the dear child
would share our happiness. How could you ever doubt it? Only this morning she said there was
no one in the world she would like better for a father than you. But I mustn't begin by making
you vain! Oh dear! I wish to-day was to-morrow.

  Your MELISSA.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST-STRAW.

  I don't agree with grousing, and I trust I shall escape any
  Desire to pick a quarrel with an egg at fivepence ha'penny;
  I'm quite prepared to recognise that no persuasive charm'll aid
  In getting from a grocer either cheese or jam or marmalade;
  I brave the brackish bacon and refrain from ever uttering
  Complaints about the margarine that on my bread I'm buttering;
  I'm not unduly bored with CHARLIE CHAPLIN on the cinema
  And view serenely miners agitating for their minima;
  I sit with resignation in a study stark and shivery,
  Desiderating coal with little hope of its delivery;
  I realise that getting into tram or tube's improbable
  And pardon profiteers for robbing ev'ryone that's robable;
  I don't mind cleaning doorsteps in the view of all ignoble eyes
  (Now Mary, my domestic, has decided to demobilise);
  Though life is like a poker that you've handled at the vivid end
  And all my wretched companies have ceased to pay a dividend--
  All these and other worries, though they're very near the limit, I
  Maintain that I can face with philosophic equanimity;
  But, when I by my family and fond and fussy friends am asked
  To trot about in public with my features influenza-masked,
  My sense of humour wrings from me (or possibly a lack of it)
  The protest of the camel at the straw that breaks the back of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECONSTRUCTION IN LONDON.

Extract from a recent novel:--

    "She sat at her desk and, without any palpable hesitation,
    wrote to Stanley asking him to meet her within an hour by
    the bridge over the Serpentine in St. James's Park."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A GENTLE HINT.

The Corps Commander paced thoughtfully down the street of a half-ruined village in France and
his thoughts were pleasant; for he alone amongst all other Corps Commanders was the owner of
a cow. There was no other cow in the whole army nearer than G.H.Q., and he pictured the envy
of brother Generals when he invited them to come in and have a glass of milk.

The Assistant Provost-Marshal stood at his office window and gazed out upon his garden. His
thoughts were also pleasant, for the garden belonged to him by right of billet law, and in
the garden grew strawberries rich and ripe.

The A.P.M. pictured the envy of brother A.P.M.'s when he should ask them to a strawberry feast.

The Corps Commander's thoughtful wanderings took him by chance through the A.P.M.'s garden,
and as he walked he stooped now and again and picked some of the sacred fruit.

The A.P.M. swelled with impotent anger, for the Corps Commander was known to be "hot stuff,"
and nobody had told him "not to do it" for a very long time.

That night the A.P.M. sought the company of his friend the R.E. officer and told his troubles.

The R.E. officer had been a journalist before the War and had learnt to say and write rude
things without offence. He was also the owner of wood and paint and brushes.

The next morning a large notice-board reared its head above the scarlet fruit of the strawberry
bed:--

    ANYONE FOUND PICKING THESE STRAWBERRIES
    WILL HAVE HIS COW SHOT.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Express Train to the Orient.

    The itinerary will include London, Paris, Vallorbe, Lausanne,
    the Simpleton, Milan, Trieste and beyond. The first train is
    fixed to leave Paris on April 15."--Provincial Paper.

"All Fools' Day" would have been more appropriate for the "Simpleton" route.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following advertisement appeared in a French provincial paper:--

    "TAKE KÈRE!

    Ask always the interchanging thooth made by this inventors in
    this mastery. The interchanging tooth is able for any people
    and it is very good and not dear.

    The imperfections of the mouth, resulting of a bad dentition,
    are stricken away by the application of the interchanging
    Thooth. That toolh it is not expensive and you can changed
    in five minutes if it broked.

    Gives you all guarontees of perfect natural immitation.
    ENGLISH SPOKEN."

But, as you may have remarked, not invariably written.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, March 31st.--Colonel WILLIAM THORNE has the credit of eliciting from the Government
the most hopeful statement about Peace which has yet been made. To the hon. and gallant Member's
suggestion that May 1st should be declared a general holiday, if Peace was signed before that
date, Mr. BONAR LAW replied that it would be considered.

It is fortunate that the PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY TO THE BOARD OF TRADE possesses a most imperturbable
character. He is daily bombarded with the most diverse questions regarding the effects of the
Government's fiscal policy. The paper manufacturers are being ruined because paper is being
allowed in; export traders are suffering because glass bottles are kept out; the textile trades
cannot compete with their foreign rivals because of the high price of olive-oil. But for all
inquirers Mr. BRIDGEMAN has a soft answer, delivered in level tones, discouraging further catechism.

A delightful inconsistency is one of Lord HENRY CAVENDISH-BENTINCK'S many claims upon the affection
of the House. Not long ago he wrote a book in praise of Toryism as a democratic creed; so it
was perfectly natural that when Mr. CECIL HARMSWORTH (a Coalition Liberal) had explained that
law and order must be restored before an inquiry could usefully be held into the causes of
the Egyptian riots Lord HENRY should burst out with, "When will my hon. friend begin to apply
Liberal principles?"

Mr. BOTTOMLEY is the latest convert to "P.R.," as the result of a mock-election in which he
came out top of the poll, with the PRIME MINISTER second, Mr. HOGGE third, and Messrs. BALFOUR
and ASQUITH among the "also ran;" but Mr. BONAR LAW, who can be very dense when he likes, did
not see in that an argument for the general adoption of the system.

The "Wee Frees" made a last and unavailing attempt to defeat the new Military Service Bill.
Mr. GEORGE THORNE, Major HAYWARD and others made great play with the PRIME MINISTER'S "No Conscription"
pledge, and Mr. NEWBOULD in a maiden speech declared that what West Leyton had said yesterday
England would say to-morrow. But it was noticeable that not one of the opponents of the Bill
was unwilling to give the Government the powers they required if they were really necessary.

Mr. CHURCHILL revealed himself in a new rôle as a financier, and proved to his own satisfaction
that the Army Estimates of £506,500,000 would, if properly manipulated, work out at little
more than a fourth of that amount. Between now and the Budget Mr. CHAMBERLAIN might do worse
than get his versatile colleague to explain away the National Debt.

Tuesday, April 1st.--Twenty years ago there used to be a not infrequent headline in The Times,
"The Duke of Devonshire on Technical Education," which always struck on my frivolous spirit
with a touch of infinite prose. It is the same nowadays, I regret to say, with a Lords' debate
on the national resources. The Upper House is filled with eminent financiers--men who think
in millions and who under our glorious Constitution may not propose an expenditure of sixpence
without the consent of Tom, Dick and Harry in the Commons--and they all talk the most excellent
good sense. But whether such unimpeachable truisms as that "this huge Debt is going to be a
terrible handicap to this country" (Lord LANSDOWNE), or that "what applies to private credit
and private economy may be in the main taken to apply to public economy and also to public
credit" (Lord CREWE), are going to have much effect upon the demands of the Labour Party, to
whom they were directly addressed, I am rather inclined to doubt.

It is refreshing to note, however, that the Commons had a brief spasm of economy. Under the
financial resolution of the Ways and Communications Bill the new Minister would have had almost
unlimited powers of initiating great enterprises without the consent of Parliament. Mr. R.J.
MCNEILL alluded (without acknowledgment to Mr. Punch) to the hero Eric; or, Little by Little,
and urged that not even "a Napoleon of administration" ought to be trusted with a blank cheque.
He rather spoilt a good case by referring to the new Minister's financial relations with his
late employers, the North-Eastern Railway; but his argument was so far successful that Mr.
BONAR LAW undertook first that a Treasury watchdog should be permanently installed in the new
Ministry, with instructions to bark whenever he saw any sign of extravagance; and, secondly,
that the Minister should not have power to initiate any enterprise involving large expenditure--he
suggested a million as a moderate limit--without the direct sanction of Parliament.

After this achievement Members felt that a rest was necessary. So the Housing Bill was postponed,
and after two or three Scottish Bills had received a second reading the House counted itself
out, and Members went to their dinners feeling as comfortably virtuous as the Boy Scout who
has done his good deed for the day.

Wednesday, April 2nd.--The unemployment donation was the theme of innumerable inquiries. The
MINISTER OF LABOUR was forced to admit that Parliament had at present furnished him with no
direct authority to spend a million or so a week on this form of out-door relief, but hoped
that it would be kind enough to do so when the Appropriation Bill came along. A statement that
in Ireland men were coming for their donation in motorcars aroused the sympathy of Mr. JACK
JONES, who said that surely they were entitled to an occasional ride, but did not go so far
as to suggest that the Government should organise a service of cars to be at their disposal.

A suggestion to incorporate in the Army Annual Bill one of Dora's most stringent regulations
for the prevention of criticism upon military matters aroused much indignation. Mr. BEN TILLETT
observed that, if it were retained, Lord NORTHCLIFFE, Mr. BOTTOMLEY and even Sir HENRY DALZIEL
might soon be conducting their various journals from a prison-cell. This possibility may have
mitigated but it did not wholly remove the objections to the clause, which Mr. CHURCHILL ultimately
withdrew.

A debate on the popular theme, "Make Germany Pay!" was initiated by Col. CLAUDE LOWTHER, who
not long ago produced a specific scheme for extracting twenty-five thousand millions from the
enemy--a scheme which by its unconventional handling of the rules of arithmetic excited the
amazed admiration of professional financiers. Possibly Mr. BONAR LAW, as ex-Chancellor of the
Exchequer, was jealous because he had not thought of it first. At any rate he subjected the
plan to so much caustic criticism that Col. LOWTHER, having appealed in vain for the protection
of his namesake in the Chair, walked out of the House.

Thursday, April 3rd.--Some of NAPOLEON'S many complaints of his treatment at St. Helena concerned
the cost and quality of his food. The exile of Amerongen need have no fears on that score should
the Allies decide to remove him to Longwood, for the present Governor has been so successful
in keeping down the price of foodstuffs that the merchants of the island have petitioned for
his recall.

The CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER has so far relaxed his non-possumus attitude on the joint income-tax
question as to consent to receive a deputation of Members interested, and even to allow them
to be accompanied by a small number of ladies. Mr. CHAMBERLAIN, by the way, has exchanged his
hereditary monocle for a pair of ordinary spectacles, which may account for his taking a less
one-sided view of this question.

Mr. T.P. O'CONNOR now enjoys the distinction of being the "Father" of the House of Commons,
having sat there uninterruptedly since the General Election of 1880. Perhaps his new dignity
sits rather heavily on his youthful spirit, for his speech on the Irish Estimates was painfully
lugubrious. He took some comfort from a statement in The Times that "We are all Home Rulers
now," but as a veteran journalist he is probably aware that what The Times says to-day it will
not necessarily say to-morrow.

"Leave politics alone and give us decent houses for our people and better education for our
children" was Sir EDWARD CARSON'S prescription for invalid Erin; and Mr. IAN MACPHERSON, making
his first speech as Chief Secretary, indicated that he meant to apply it. But the patient is
suffering from so many disorders at present that she must have a tonic--with iron in it--before
her Constitution can be regarded as completely restored.

       *       *       *       *       *

P.B.

  Oft when the world was bent
    Solely on killing
  Heard we in Parliament
    PEMBERTON billing.

  Now the Dove hovers near,
    Now the League's brewing,
  May we not hope to hear
    PEMBERTON cooing?

       *       *       *       *       *

MACEDONIA.

The Allies having won the War, and myself having been released from the hands of the Hun, I
spent a happy repatriation leave, and began to think about soldiering again. My orders were
to rejoin my reserve unit in the North of England.

Before the time came, however, a friend of mine, an educational staff officer in Ireland, wrote
to me and suggested that I should go over and give him the assistance of my superior intelligence.
I replied that I would be delighted. He then wrote:--

"My dear K----,--I am so pleased that you are willing to come over to Macedonia and help us.
You had better ask War Office for a week's extension of leave, by which time my application
for you will probably have filtered through. That will save you the trouble of rejoining your
reserve unit."

I thought this an excellent plan and went to the War Office to see about it.

After the customary wait I was granted a few moments of a Staff Officer's precious time.

"What do you want?" said the Staff Officer. He seemed used to meeting people who wanted things,
and familiarity had evidently bred contempt.

I humbly explained.

"Have you got a written authority to support your application?" he asked.

I produced my friend's letter, which was endorsed with the stamp of his Command Headquarters.

The Staff Officer, standing (not out of politeness, I am sure), read the letter. Then he looked
up, suspicion in his eye and in the cock of his head.

"I don't understand this," he said. "You told me you wanted to go to Ireland. This letter distinctly
refers to your going to Macedonia."

"Macedonia!" I echoed (I had forgotten my friend's Biblical way of expressing himself).

"Yes, Macedonia," snapped the Staff Officer. "Balkans, isn't it? Something to do with Salonika?"

"Macedonia!" I repeated, still mystified.

"Yes, yes--Macedonia," he snapped, obviously suspecting me of trying to obtain a week's leave
on false pretences. "Here it is, in black and white, 'so pleased that you are willing to come
over to Macedonia and help us.' I don't understand this at all."

He handed me the letter. Then I realised what was amiss. My friend had not reckoned with the
War Office. They call a spade a spade in Whitehall (unless they refer to it as "shovels, one.")

"Oh," said I, "I see. Yes, Macedonia. Slight misunderstanding. It's written from Ireland all
right. There's the Irish Command stamp on it. 'Come over to Macedonia and help us.' Biblical
phrase. St. PAUL, you know. Just a figure of speech. My friend meant it metaphorically."

"The devil he did," barked the Staff man. "Then why the blazes didn't he say so?"

Of course, why didn't he say so? Very stupid of him. One can't be too literal in dealing with
the War Office, that notorious fount of clear and orderly diction.

My plan nearly went West, and I was nearly sent East. It was only the Headquarters' stamp that
turned the scale in my favour.

It was lucky for my friend that I ultimately got leave to help him in his educational duties.
Cleanly he is himself sadly lacking in the very rudiments of official culture.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LETTERS THAT COUNT.

    ["Meanwhile one sighs for the letters which do not
    exist."--C.K.S., in "The Sphere."]

  I never have felt any hunger,
    Apart from my shortage of gold,
  For the spoils of the autograph-monger,
    The screeds of the sages of old;
  By envy unvexed and unsmitten
    I study the connoisseur's list,
  But I sigh for the letters unwritten,
    Or those that no longer exist.

  The notes, for example, that Hector
    Despatched to his Andromache,
  When, tied to a troublesome sector,
    He couldn't get home to his tea;
  Or the messages CÆSAR kept sending
    To pacify QUEEN CLEOPAT,
  When, simply from fear of offending
    The mob, he avoided her flat.

  But even more impetus giving,
    More apt to inspire and refresh,
  Are the letters addressed to the living
    By writers no more in the flesh--
  The epistles to WILCOX from SHELLEY,
    From LANDOR to Mrs. JOHN LANE,
  From SWIFT to Miss MARIE CORELLI,
    From POPE to Sir THOMAS HALL CAINE;

  The instructions to NORTHCLIFFE from BONEY,
    The comments of SHAKSPEARE on SHAW,
  COLUMBUS'S hints to MARCONI,
    TOM HUGHES'S to young ALEC WAUGH,
  Or a letter to cheer her supporter
   In CHARLOTTE'S own delicate fist,
  Enclosing her photo to SHORTER--
    A letter which does not exist.

  For relics of this sort I hanker,
    For these, when they're offered for sale,
  I will beg overdrafts from my banker
    And bid on a liberal scale;
  For the arts of the DOYLES and the LODGES
    Are bound to contribute new grist
  To SOTHEBY'S mills and to HODGE'S
    In the letters which do not exist.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN AID TO GENUFLEXION.

    "The Rev. ----, minister of ---- U.F. Church, was yesterday
    presented with pulpit robes, hassock, hood and cap by his
    congregation."--Scotch Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Schools of cokery are being 'snowed' under with
    applications,"--Evening Paper.

We ourselves call almost every day to ask for more cokery.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"BOTCHES."

AN APPEAL FOR GOD-PARENTS.

For many years the village of Chailey, in Sussex--famous topographically for possessing that
conical tree which is said to mark the centre of the county, and for a landmark windmill of
dazzling whiteness--has been famous sociologically for its Heritage Craft Schools of crippled
boys and girls. Among the ameliorative institutions of this country none has a finer record
than these schools, where ever since 1897 the work of converting helplessness into helpfulness
has been going bravely on. Entering as complete dependents, the inmates leave fully equipped
to earn their living unassisted, the boys chiefly as carpenters, and the girls as needlewomen.
In some cases the cures effected have been remarkable. In the late War seven-and-twenty Guild
boys fought in the ranks, four of whom were killed and are now proudly commemorated on the
wall of the School church.

This contribution of fighting men, together with a certain activity in munition-making, is
not, however, Chailey's only share in the War, for the Government are using its experience
for the education of cripples of a larger growth. The boys have, in short, surrendered their
comfortable old quarters--now transferred to a War Hospital, named, after the Heritage's chief
patron, the Princess Louise Special Military Surgical Hospital--to companies of maimed soldiers,
who are sent to Chailey to learn how much of usefulness and fun can still remain when limbs
are missing; and, by a charming inspiration, their teachers in this great lesson are the boys
themselves. It is no doubt encouraging for a soldier who has lost both arms to be told by a
kindly and enthusiastic visitor at his bedside that all will be well, and he will be able to
manage without them; but a certain measure of scepticism and despair may remain to darken his
waking hours. But when a little fellow in precisely the same plight shows him how the disabilities
have been conquered, his zest in life begins to return. Seeing is believing, and believing
means new endeavour. The result is that the crippled soldiers at Chailey, taught by the crippled
boys, have been transformed into happy and active men, and not a few of them have discovered
themselves to possess faculties of which they had no notion. There is even an armless billiard-player
among them; and I could not wish him a happier setting for the exercise of his skill. For here
is one of the finest Y.M.C.A. recreation halls in the country, with a view of the South Downs
that probably no other can boast. Whether or not the method of learning from a young cripple
the art of being an old one is novel, I cannot say, but it has been proved to be eminently
successful; and one of its attractions is the pride taken not only in their mature pupils by
the immature masters but in the boys by the men.

Meanwhile, what became of the boys whose nest was thus invaded? (The Girls' School and Babies'
Montessori School is half-a-mile away.) They immediately showed what they are made of by themselves
erecting on the ground beside the windmill a series of Kitchener huts. There they sleep and
eat, coming hobbling down to headquarters for carpentering and to perform their strange new
duties as guides, philosophers and friends.

Another development in the Chailey scheme of altruism that arose from the War was, as readers
of Punch will no doubt remember, the sudden establishment of the St. Nicholas Home for child
victims of the air-raids. So sudden was it that within seven days of the inception of the idea
a house had been found and furnished, a staff engaged and a number of the beds were occupied.
Here, throughout the last years of the War, terrified children were soothed back to serenity
and a sense of security in the sky above.

And now for "Botches." It had long been one of the many aspirations of the founder of the Heritage
Schools, and the founder also of the Guild of Brave Poor Things and the Guild of Play--Mrs.
C.W. KIMMINS--who in her quiet practical way is probably as good a friend as London ever had--it
had long been one of her dreams that the word "cripple" should be enlarged from its narrower
meaning to include the crippled mind no less than the crippled limbs. In her work in Southwark,
where the Guild of the Brave Poor Things began, she has seen too many children stunted and
enfeebled by lack of pure food and fresh air, who would under better conditions grow naturally
into health and strength and even power: "little mothers" taxed beyond their capacity by thoughtless
parents, and all the other types of "cripple" which the mean streets of a great city can only
too easily produce. If a house at Chailey or near by could be found or built where this wasted
material might be nourished into happy efficiency, how splendid! Such was the desire of the
founder, and it is now within sight of fruition; for, through the generosity of a friend of
the Heritage, the house has been acquired and is ready for occupation.

Strange are the vicissitudes of fortune; stranger the links in the chain of life. CLAUDE and
ALICE ASKEW, who wrote popular serial novels in the daily papers, lived in a rambling old home
at Wivelsfield Green, in Sussex, known as "Botches." This they enlarged and modernised; they
developed the gardens and filled the grass with bulbs. Then came the War. Mr. and Mrs. ASKEW
threw themselves into foreign work, and on one of their voyages were drowned through an enemy
torpedo, and "Botches" became tenantless. It is "Botches" which has now been given to the Heritage
for the reception of Southwark children.

