"When boys and gals gits up some size dey feels dey-selves. At dat age, we went bird thrashing
in de moon light. Den we sing dis vulgar song, 'I'll give you half-dollar if you come out tonight;
I'll give you half-dollar if you come out tonight'. Den de gals charmed us wid honeysuckle
and rose petals hid in dere bosoms. Now de gals goes to de ten cent sto' and buys cheap perfume.
In dem days dey dried cheneyberries (chinaberries) and painted dem and wo' dem on a string
around dere necks to charm us.

"When us very little, ma say at night when she want us to go to bed and we be playing marbles,
'Better come on in de house or Raw Hide and Bloody Bones 'll git you. From den on I is seed spooks.

"Our work song was, 'John Henry was a man; he worked all over dis town'. Dey still uses dat
song. In slavery some holler when dey be in de field like owls; some like crows; and some like
pea-fowls. Missus had de purtiest pea-fowls in de whole country. Don't see none now, but dar
ain't nothing dat flies purtier.

"Me and Wade Carlisle was 'possum hunting one night in de fall when de dogs bedded a 'possum
in a grave. We dug down and got de 'possum. He was dat big and fat and his hair was so shiny
and purty dat we 'lowed dat he de finest 'possum we had cotch dat fall.

"Jest den, Wade struck de box dat de dead man was a-lying in. Jest as he did dat, a light jumped
out'n dat grave right in front of us and all over Wade's shovel. Our two dogs tuck and run
and holler and stick dey tails betwix dey legs like somebody a-whipping dem. Dem dogs never
stopped running and howling 'till dey reached home, me and Wade right behind dem. Wade had
dat 'possum in his hand. Dat light now and den jump right in front of us.

"I hollered, 'Wade, fer de Lawd in Heaven sake, drap dat 'possum.' He drapped it and we run
'till we got home. Wade still had dat shovel--or was it a axe--. I jest recollects which, anyway,
he still had it in his hand; and when I looked at it, it was still shining. I pinted my finger
at it, kaise I was dat scared dat no words wouldn't come from my mouth. Wade throwed it in
de wood pile and we run in de house wid it still shining at us.

"I stayed dar all night, and I ain't never been hunting in no graveyard at night since dat;
and if de good Lawd give me sense I is got now, I ain't never gwine to do it no mo'.

"It ain't no good a-'sturbing dead folks. All befo' dat I is heard it gits you in bad, and
now since den I knows it."

  =Source:= Gus Feaster (col. 97), 20 Stutz Ave., Union, S.C.
          Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S.C. (7/1/37)

  Project 1885-1
  From Misc. Field Notes
  District No. 4
  May 17, 1937

  Edited by:
  Martha Ritter

  FOLKLORE: NEGRO SLAVE.

  SLAVE TIME CUSTOMS ON THE PLANTATION
  OF THOMAS ANDERSON CARLISLE.

"Cap', my old Master's daughter, Mrs. George Perrin (Ida Rice) and Miss Peake (Mrs. Keitt Peake)
'lows I is done pas' 84. Miss Ida was 84 when she died and I was allus mo' older dan she was,
and a long ways at dat. I allus figers dat Ah is 97. Miss Agnes (Mrs. Keitt Peake) and Miss
Ida was lil' gals when I driv' dem to and from school ever' day fer ole Marse. You see I had
to be a big boy to drive de Marse's chilluns to school, 'specially when dey was lil' gals!
I is a great deal older than Mr. Bill Harris. I met him dis mornin' wid sweet 'tater in his
pocket. He 'lowed, 'Gus, you is jes' 'bout de oldes' nigger in dis county, ain't you?' I raised
my hat to 'im and 'lowed, Yessir, guess I is, Cap.

"Had to stay out and guard de silver and de gold jewels in de pines when my white folks hid
it dar to keep de Yankees from a-gittin' it. Dey driv' de waggins in de pines and us unload
de jewels and things and den dey would drive de waggins out de wood. When de waggin done got
plum away us would take dry pine needles and kivver up all de waggin tracks and hoof prints
after us had done raked de dirt smooth over dem. We stayed wid de silver and stuff and drink
coffee and eat black crus'; dat de sweetnin' bread dat us had durin' de war. Couldn't git no
sugar den. Sometime we used sassafras tea as we never had no coffee to grind. De white folks
was jes' as bad off as we was. From de big house dey brung our mess of vittals after dark had
done fell.

"Poke salad was et in dem days to clean a feller out. Hit cum up tender every spring and when
it cut deep down in sand it looked white. It's an herb. Cut it; wash it and par boil; pour
off water and ball up in balls in your hand; put in frying pan of hot grease (grease from ham
or strip meat) and fry. Season with black pepper and salt and eat with new spring onions. Tender
white stems are better than the salad and of course earlier. Ash cake was good wid poke salad
and clabber or butter milk and best of all was sweet milk! Dat not only fill up your belly,
but make you fat and strong.

"Sometime de darkies would eat too much and git de colic. Fer dis dey would take and chaw pine
needles and it would be all over wid den. On all de plantations dar was old womens, too old
to do any work and dey would take and study what to do fer de ailments of grown folks and lil'
chilluns. Fer de lil' chilluns and babies dey would take and chaw up pine needles and den spit
it in de lil' chilluns mouths and make dem swallow. Den when dey was a teachin' de babies to
eat dey done de food de very same way. Dem old wimmens made pine rosin pills from de pine rosin
what drapped from de pine trees and give de pills to de folks to take fer de back ache. Dey
allus kept de pine trees gashed fer dis purpose. Den day also gashed de sweet gum fer to git
gum to chaw. 'Twasn't no sech thing as chawin' gum till thirty years ago. Sweet gum, it's good
fer de indigestion and fer de toofies, when it don't git yer mouth all stuck so as you can't
say nothing. I 'spects dat de chief reason how come it done gone plum out o' date. I most fergot
to inform you dat resin pills is still de best thing dat I knows to start your "water" off
when it done stopped on ye.

"It was a special day on each plantation when de Master and de o'seer give out de week's rations,
like dis: Four pounds o' bacon; one peck o' meal; quart o' flour; quart o' molasses;--dey was
dat black; and dey was de rations fer a whole endurin' week. Had a big choppin' block where
all de meat was chopped on. In dem days every bit o' de meat was raised on de plantation from
de Master's hogs. Into de grooves o' dis choppin' block would git lodged small pieces o' meat.
Choppin' ax was heavy and broad. Heavy rations come out on Friday. On Sad'day come de shoulder
meat fer Sunday mornin' brekfas' and de flour come on Sad'day also. Our Master give us hominy
fer Sunday mornin' brekfas', kaise us had red meat wid gravy den. My Master was Marse' Tom
Carlisle of Goshen Hill. He de one give us dem Sunday specials. De niggers on de other surroundin'
plantations never got no sech 'sideration as I ever heard of.

"Me and John minded de Missus' cows. When de red meat choppin' was done all de plantation chilluns
would be dar to git what fall in de grooves o' de blocks. One day John 'lowed to me if you
puts your ol' black hand on dat block 'fore I does today, I is a gwine to chop it off. I never
said nary a word, but I jes' roll my eyes at him. I got dar and broke and run fer de block.
I got big piece and when John come up I was eating it. I say, Nigger, you is too late and lazy
fer anything. 'Bout that time he reach over fer a scrap I never seed. I push him back and reach
fer hit. John took up de choppin' ax and come right down on my finger, 'fore I could git it
out de way. Dat's why you see dis scar here now. Dat nigger lay my finger plum wide open, fact
is dat he jes' left it a hangin'. Marse's doctor and he fix it back. Den he whip John hisself;
never 'low de overseer to do it dat time. Marse Tom pretty good to us; never whip much; never
'low de overseer, Mr. Wash Evans, to whip too much neither. He would have liked to whip mo'
dan he did, if de Marse would 'lowed it, but he wasn't so bad. Mr. Evans wasn't no po' white
trash, but he was kinder middlin' like. De Evans is done riz high up now.

"Newt and Anderson was my young marsters. Dey was 'long 'bout my own age. Dey went to school
at Goshen Hill. De school was near de store, some folks called it de tradin' post in dem days.
De had barrels o' liquor settin' out from de store in a long row. Sold de likker to de rich
mens dat carried on at de race track near by. Folks in Goshen was all rich in dem days. Rogers
Church, where de Carlisles, Jeters, Sims, Selbys, Glens, and lots of other folks went too and
de slaves, was de richest country church in dis part o' de whole state, so I is often been
told. Ebenezer, over in Maybinton, was de onliest church in de whole country dat tried to strive
wid Rogers in de way o' finery and style. De Hendersons, Maybins, Hardys, Douglasses, Cofields,
Chicks and Oxners was de big folks over dar. Both de churches was Methodist.

"Every summer de carried on Camp Meetin' at Rogers. All de big Methodist preachers would come
from way off den. Dey was entertained in de Carlisle big house. Missus put on de dog (as de
niggers says now) den. Every thing was cleaned up jes' 'fore de meetin' like us did fer de
early-spring cleanin'. Camp Meetin' come jes' after de craps was done laid by. Den all craps
was done laid by befo' July de Fourth. It was unheard of fer anybody to let de Fourth come
widout de craps out'n de way. Times is done changed now, Lawd. Den de fields was heavy wid
corn head high and cotton up aroun' de darky's waist! Grass was all cleaned out o' de furrow's
on de las' go 'round. De fields and even de terraces was put in 'apple pie' order fer de gatherin'
o' de craps in de fall.

"As you all knows de Fourth has allus been nigger day. Marse and Missus had good rations fer
us early on de Fourth. Den us went to barbecues after de mornin' chores was done. In dem days
de barbecues was usually held on de plantation o' Marse Jim Hill in Fish Dam. Dat was not fer
from Goshen. Marse Jim had a purty spring dat is still all walled up wid fine rocks. De water
come out'n dese rocks dat cold dat you can't hold your hand in it fer more dan a minute at
de longes'. Dar is a big flat rock beyond de spring dat I 'specs kivvers more dan an acre and
a half o' ground. A creek run along over dis rock, where de mules and de hosses could rest
in de shade of de trees and drink all de water dat de wanted. Wild ferns growed waist high
along dar den. All kinds of purty flowers and daisies was gathered by de gals. Dem was de best
days dat any darky has ever seed. Never had nothing to aggravate your mind den. Plenty to eat;
plenty to wear; plenty wood to burn; good house to live in; and no worry 'bout where it was
a-coming from!

"Old Marse he give us de rations fer de barbecues. Every master wanted his darkies to be thought
well of at de barbecues by de darkies from all de other plantations. De had pigs barbecued;
goats; and de Missus let de wimmen folks bake pies, cakes and custards fer de barbecue, jes'
'zactly like hit was fer de white folks barbecue deself!

"Young ones carried on like young colts a-frolicin' in de pasture till dey had done got so
full o' vittles dat dey could not eat another bite. Den dey roamed on off and set down somewheres
to sleep in de shade o' de trees. When de sun started to going down den de old folks begin
to git ready to return back to dey home plantations, fer dar was de master's stock and chickens
to feed and put up fer de night, to say nothing o' de cows to milk. The master's work had to
go on around de big house, kaise all de darkies had been 'lowed to have such a pleasant day.
Next day being Sad'day was on dis occasion not only ration day, but de day to git ready fer
de white folks' Camp Meetin' which I has already called to recollection several times.

"I has to drap back to my own plantation now; kaise I guesses dat de same [TN: 'same' was crossed
out in the original] thing took place on all de neighborin' places in preparation fer de white
folks 'big Meetin'. But I better confine my relations to dat what I really knows. At de barbecue
I seed niggers from several neighborin' plantations and I can tell you 'bout dat. But I draps
now to de doings o' my own white folks.

"As I has said once, de fields was in lay-by shape and de Missus done already got de house
cleaned. De chilluns was put in one room to sleep and dat make more room fer de preachers and
guests dat gwine to visit in de big house fer de nex' six weeks. Den de plans fer cooking had
to be brung 'bout. Dey never had no ice in dem days as you well knows; but us had a dry well
under our big house. It was deep and everything keep real cool down dar. Steps led down into
it, and it allus be real dark down dar. De rats run aroun' down dar and de younguns skeert
to go down fer anything. So us carry a lightwood not [HW: knot] fer light when us put anything
in it or take anything out. Dar ain't no need fer me to tell you 'bout de well house where
us kept all de milk and butter, fer it was de talk o' de country 'bout what nice fresh milk
and butter de missus allus had. A hollow oak log was used fer de milk trough. Three times a
day Cilla had her lil' boy run fresh cool well water all through de trough. Dat keep de milk
from gwine to whey and de butter fresh and cool. In de dry well was kept de canned things and
dough to set till it had done riz. When company come like dey allus did fer de camp meetings,
shoalts and goats and maybe a sheep or lamb or two was kilt fer barbecue out by Cilla's cabin.
Dese carcasses was kept down in de dry well over night and put over de pit early de next morning
after it had done took salt. Den dar was a big box kivvered wid screen wire dat victuals was
kept in in de dry well. Dese boxes was made rat proof.

"Whilst de meats fer de company table was kept barbecued out in de yard, de cakes, pies, breads,
and t'other fixings was done in de kitchen out in de big house yard. Baskets had ter be packed
to go to camp meetin'. Tables was built up at Rogers under de big oak trees dat has all been
cut down now. De tables jes' groaned and creeked and sighed wid victuals at dinner hour every
day durin' de camp meetin'.

"Missus fetch her finest linens and silver and glasses to out-shine dem brung by de t'other
white folks o' quality. In dem days de white folks o' quality in Union most all come from Goshen
Hill and Fish Dam. After de white folks done et all dey could hold den de slaves what had done
come to church and to help wid de tables and de carriages would have de dinner on a smaller
table over clost to de spring. Us had table cloths on our table also and us et from de kitchen
china and de kitchen silver.

"Young gals couldn't eat much in public, kaise it ain't stylish fer young courting gals to
let on like dey has any appetite to speak of. I sees dat am a custom dat still goes amongst
de wimmen folks, not to eat, so heavy. Cullud gals tried to do jes' like de young white missus
would do.

"After everything was done eat it would be enough to pack up and fetch back home to feed all
de hungry niggers what roams roun' here in Union now. Dem was de times when everybody had 'nuff
to eat and more dan dey wanted and plenty clothes to wear!

"During de preaching us darkies sot in de back o' de church. Our white folks had some benches
dar dat didn't nobody set on 'cept de slaves. Us wore de best clo'es dat us had. De Marse give
us a coat and a hat and his sons give all de old hats and coats 'round. Us wore shirts and
pants made from de looms. Us kept dem clean't and ironed jes' like de Marster and de young
marsters done their'n. Den us wore a string tie, dat de white folks done let us have, to church.
Dat 'bout de onliest time dat a darky was seed wid a tie. Some de oldest men even wore a cravat,
dat dey had done got from de old marster. Us combed our hair on Sunday fer church. But us never
bothered much wid it no other time. During slavery some o' de old men had short plaits o' hair.

"De gals come out in de starch dresses fer de camp meeting. Dey took dey hair down out'n de
strings fer de meeting. In dem days all de darky wimmens wore dey hair in string 'cep' when
dey 'tended church or a wedding. At de camp meetings de wimmens pulled off de head rags, 'cept
de mammies. On dis occasion de mammies wore linen head rags fresh laundered. Dey wore de best
aprons wid long streamers ironed and starched out a hanging down dey backs. All de other darky
wimmens wore de black dresses and dey got hats from some dey white lady folks; jes' as us mens
got hats from our'n. Dem wimmens dat couldn't git no hats, mostly wore black bonnets. De nigger
gals and winches did all de dressing up dat dey could fer de meeting and also fer de barbecue.

"At night when de meeting dun busted till nex' day was when de darkies really did have dey
freedom o' spirit. As de waggin be creeping along in de late hours o' moonlight and de darkies
would raise a tune. Den de air soon be filled wid the sweetest tune as us rid on home and sung
all de old hymns dat us loved. It was allus some big black nigger wid a deep bass voice like
a frog dat ud start up de tune. Den de others mens jine in, followed up by de fine lil voices
o' de gals and de cracked voices o' de old wimmens and de grannies. When us reach near de big
house us soften down to a deep hum dat de missus like! Sometime she his't up de window and
tell us sing 'Swing Low Sweet Cha'ot' for her and de visiting guests. Dat all us want to hear.
Us open up and de niggers near de big house dat hadn't been to church would wake up and come
out to de cabin door and jine in de refrain. From dat we'd swing on into all de old spirituals
dat us love so well and dat us knowed how to sing. Missus often 'low dat her darkies could
sing wid heaven's 'spiration (inspiration). Now and den some old mammie would fall out'n de
waggin a shoutin' Glory and Hallelujah and Amen! After dat us went off to lay down fer de night.

"Young Newt and Anderson was de boys what was near de age of me and John. Co'se dey went to
school every day it was in session. Dey had dey own hosses and dey rid 'em to school. When
dey come home dey would throw de reins to me and John and us took dem hosses and rub dem down
and feed 'em.

"Lots of times Newt and Anderson would tell me and John to come and git under de steps while
ole Marse was eating his supper. When he git up from de table us lil' niggers would allus hear
de sliding o' his chair, kaize he was sech a big fat man. Den he go into de missus room to
set by de fire. Dar he would warm his feets and have his Julip. Quick as lightning me and John
scamper from under de steps and break fer de big cape jasamine bushes long de front walk. Dar
we hide, till Anderson and Newt come out a fetching ham biscuit in dey hands fer us. It would
be so full of gravy, dat sometime de gravy would take and run plumb down to de end o' my elbow
and drap off, 'fo I could git it licked offn my wrists. Dem was de best rations dat a nigger
ever had. When dey had honey on de white folks table, de boys never did fail to fetch a honey
biscuit wid dem. Dat was so good dat I jest take one measley lil' bite of honey and melted
butter on my way to de 'quarter. I would jest taste a leetle. When I git to Mammy den me and
Mammy set off to ourself's and taste it till it done all gone. Us had good times den; like
I never is had befo' or since.

"Soon atter dat dey sent me and John to de field to larn drapping. I had to drap peas in every
other hill and John had to drap de corn in de rest. De overseer, ole man Wash Evans, come down
dar to see how us was a doing. Den us got dat skeert dat us got de corn and peas mixed up.
He started to hit us wid de whip dat he had hung 'round his waist. Bout dat time Marse Tom
rid up. He made de overseer git out'n dem corn rows and let us 'lone. After dat us got 'long
fine wid our drapping. When it come up everybody could see dem rows dat us had done got mixed
up on when de overseer was dar. Marse Tom was dat good to his hands dat dey all love him all
de time. But one day when ole man Evans come through de field and see dem rows he did call
me and John off and whip us. Dat de most dat I ever got whipped. Marse got shed o' de overseer
soon after dat.

"It was just like dis. Ole man Wash Evans was a wicked man. He take 'vantage of all de slaves
when he git half chance. He was great source of worriment to my Mammy, ole lady Lucy Price
and 'nother 'oman, ole lady Lucy Charles. Course he 'vantage over all de darkies and fer dat
reason he could sway everything his way, most all de time. But my mammy and ole lady Lucy was
'ligious wimmens. Dat didn't make no diffuns wid wicked old man Evans. One day Missus sent
my mammy and de other ole lady Lucy to fetch her some blackberries by dinner.

"Me and John was wid dem a pickin' and fillin' o' de big buckets from de lil' buckets when
ole man Evans come riding up. He argued wid both mammy and ole lady Lucy and dey kept telling
him dat de missus want her berries and dat dey was 'ligious wimmens anyhow and didn't practice
no life o' sin and vile wickedness. Finally he got down off'n his hoss and pull out his whip
and low if dey didn't submit to him he gwine to beat dem half to death. At [HW: that] me and
John took to de woods. But we peep. My mammy and old lady Lucy start to crying and axing him
not to whip dem.

"Finally dey act like dey gwine to indulge in de wickedness wid dat ole man. But when he tuck
off his whip and some other garments, my Mammy and ole lady Lucy grab him by his goatee and
further down and hist him over in de middle of dem blackberry bushes. Wid dat dey call me and
John. Us grab all de buckets and us all put out fer de 'big house' fas' as our legs could carry
us. Ole man Evans jest er hollering and er cussing down in dem briars. Quick as us git to de
big house us run in de kitchen. Cilla call Missus. She come and ax what ailing us and why we
is so ashy looking. Well, my Mammy and ole lady Lucy tell de whole story of dey humiliations
down on de creek.

"Missus 'lowed dat it didn't make no diffuns if Marse was in Union, she gwinter act prompt.
So she sent fer Mr. Evans and he took real long to git dar, but when he do come, Missus, she
'low--'Mr. Evans, us does not need yo' services on dis plantation no mo', Sir!' He 'low Marse
aint here. Missus 'low--'I does not want to argue de point wid ye, Mr. Evans, fer yo' services
has come to an end on dis plantation!' Wid dat ole man Evans go off wid his head a-hanging
in shame. Us niggers went out and tole de news wid gladness shining out from our eyes, kaise
us was dat glad dat we did not know what to do.

"All de fields was enclosed wid a split rail fence in dem days. De hands took dey rations to
de field early every morning and de wimmens slack work round eleven by de sun fer to build
de fire and cook dinner. Missus 'low her niggers to git buttermilk and clabber, when de cows
in full, to carry to de field fer drinking at noon, dat is twelve o'clock. All de things was
fetched in waggins and de fire was built and a pot was put to bile wid greens when dey was
in season. Over coals meat was baked and meal in pones was wrapped in poplar leaves to bake
in de ashes. 'Taters was done de same way, both sweet 'taters and irish. Dat made a good field
hand dinner. Plenty was allud had and den 'lasses was also fetched along. Working niggers does
on less dese days.

"Does you know dat de poplar leaves was wet afo' de meal pone was put in it? Well, it was,
and when it got done de ashes was blowed off wid your breath and den de parched leaves folded
back from de cooked pone. De poplar leaves give de ash cake a nice fresh sweet taste. All forks
and spoons was made out'n sticks den; even dem in de big house kitchen. Bread bowls and dough
trays was all made by de skilled slaves in de Marse's shop, by hands dat was skilled to sech
as dat.

"Young chilluns and babies was kept at home by de fire and nursed and cared fer by de ole wimmens
dat couldn't do no field work. De chief one on our plantation during my 'membrance was ole
aunt Abbie. She had head o' de chilluns all over de plantation when dey mamies was a working
in de field. Marse Tom used to ride through de 'quarters' every day to see about ole lady Abbie
and de chilluns when dey parents was at work in de fields during de working season. Ole lady
Abbie had to see to it dat dey was kept warm by de fire and dat dey clothes was kept up wid
while dey mammies was in de field. Dem chilluns on our plantation was well looked after. De
seamstresses also kept our work clothes patched and darned, till new ones was wove fer us.

"Sides dat dem chilluns was fed. Each child had a maple fork and spoon to eat wid. Lil' troughs
was made fer dem to eat de milk and bread from. 'Shorts', low stools, was made fer dem to set
up to de troughs to, whilst dey was eating. De other ole ladies helped wid de preparations
of dey messes o' vittals. One ole woman went her rounds wid a wet rag a wiping dem chilluns
dresses when dey would spill dey milk and bread. Marse Tom and sometime Missus come to see
de lil' babies whilst dey was a eating. De other ole ladies 'tended to de small babies. Sometimes
it was many as fifteen on de plantation at one time dat was too little to walk.

"Dey mammies was not worked on our plantation till de babies was big 'nough to take a bottle.
And in dem days no bottle was given no baby under a year old. De wimmins in family way was
better cared for den dese young niggers now-a-days. Marse Tom never bred no slaves but he did
care fer his niggers when dey married and got dey own chilluns. I has done related to you how
dey fixed de medicines and things. Dem babies was washed every day if dey mammies was in de
field, dat never made no diffuns, kaise it was de old ladies' jobs to see to it dat dey was.
Younguns on de plantation was bathed two or three times a week. Mullein leaves and salt was
biled in great big pot to put in de babies' wash water and also in de chilluns' water. Dis
would keep 'em from gitting sick. Den dey was allus greased after de washing to keep de skin
from busting open. Mosely dey was greased wid tallow from de mutton. Mr. Anderson took medicine
and after dat he doctor all de slaves fer his paw free.

"While de Yankees had everything closed up down in Charleston it was hard to git anything in
dis country into de sto's. Us allus traded at de post (Goshen Hill Trading Post). If I recollects
correctly it was during dis period dat Marse Tom let my Mammy go up to de post to fetch back
her a bonnet.

"Up dar dey took cotton and corn and anything like dat in trade dat dey could sell to de folks
dat was working on de railroad bed dat was gwine through dat country (Seaboard Airline). So
Mammy took a lot of cotton wid her to de post. She knowd dat it was gwine to take lots to git
dat bonnet. It weren't but three and a half miles de short way to de post from our place.

"I's gwine long wid her and so I had to wear some pants to go to de post as dat was big doings
fer a lil' darky boy to git to go to de trading center. So aunt Abbie fotched me a pair of
new pants dat was dat stiff, dat dey made me feel like I was all closed up in a jacket, atter
being used to only a shirt-tail!

"Well, it wasn't fur and us arriv' dar early in de day. Mammy said 'howdy' to all de darkies
what dar and I look at dem from behind her skirts. I felt real curious-like all inside. But
she never give me no mind whatever. She never act like she knowd dat I was pulling her dress
at all. I seed so many things dat I never had seed befo', not in all my born days. Red sticks
o' candy was a laying right dar fo' my eyes, jes' like de folks from de big house brung us
at Christmas. It was not near Christmas den, kaise it was jest cotton picking time and I wondered
how-come dey was having candy in de store fer, now-how.

"Mammy look down at me and she say to de white man wid a beard, 'Marse, please sir, give me
five cent worth peppermint candy.' Den when he hand her de bag she break off lil' piece and
hand it to me, and wall her eyes at me and say in a low voice, 'Don' you dare git none dat
red on yo' clean shirt, if you wants to git home widout gitting wo' plumb smack out.'

"Den she talk about de bonnets. Finally she git one fer ten dollars worth o' cotton. Money
wasn't nothing in dem times. By dis time us had done started on our return home and I was starting
to feel more like I allus felt.

"Nigger, what dat you is done gone and got on dat clean shirt? Didn't you hear me tell you
not to git dat new shirt all red? Look dar a streaming down off'n your chin at dar red. How
is I gwine to ever teach you anything, when you act jest like a nigger from some pore white
trashes poor land?'

"When we gits to dat branch now I's got to stop and wash dat dirty black mouth and den I can't
git dat red candy off'n dat shirt. What ole lady Abbie gwine to say to ye when she see you
done gone and act like you ain't never seed no quality befo'?

"Atter I has done tole you all de way from home how you must act at de post den you goes and
does like you is. Aint never gwine to carry you nowhars 'gin long as I lives.

"Bend dat lazy, good-fer-nothing back so as I won't git you wet all de way down your belly,
you hear me? Now you is looking like you belongs to Marse Tom 'gin. Gimme dat candy right now;
I gwine to see to it dat you gits back home looking like somet'ing after all my worriments wid ye.'

"Mammy seed dust a flying and de hoss come a-bringing Marse Tom down de road. Mammy drap everything
in the dust and grab her apron to drap a curtsy. She 'low--'Git dat hat off dat head and bow
your head fo' he git hear."

"Howdy, Lucy, what is you and dat youngun been, anyhow?' 'Us been to git me a bonnet, Marse
Tom, and it took all de ten dollars worth of cotton to fetch it back wid.' 'Yes, Lucy, money
does not go far these days, since the Yankees got everything'. 'No Sir, No Sir, Marse,' and
he rid on, leaving us behind in de dust."

  Project #-1655
  Phoebe Faucette
  Hampton County

  Approx. 388 words

  ANN FERGUSON EX-SLAVE 74 YEARS

"Aunt Annie" sat in the sun of a fall afternoon on the steps of her house across from the Baptist
Church at Estill, S.C. Her short, stout form and her kind, deeply wrinkled face beneath her
white cap, were, as always, a pleasingly familiar sight.

"I'se sure you'se come, Missus. I'se been jes' asittin' here awaitin' for somebody to come.
I'm gittin' on in years now. Been right here for fourteen years. I was sick last night. Suffers
wid high blood, yes'm.

"Could I tell you 'bout de times before de war? Well ma'am, I was jes' a baby den; so I cain't
to say know 'bout it for meself, but I knows what me mother told me 'bout it.

"My mother was at Old Allendale when de Yankees come through. She was in de kitchen at de time.
I was quite small. 'Round two years old--now how old dat make me, Miss? 74? Well, I knows I
is gittin' 'long. I remember dem talkin' 'bout it all. Dey searched de house, and take out
what dey want, den set de house afire. Ma, she run out den an' whoop an' holler. De lady of
de house wuz dere, but de Massa had went off. De place wuz dat of Dr. Bucknor. My mother been
belong to de Bucknors. After dat, dey moved to de old home place of de Bucknors down here at
Robertville. Dey had two places. Dey jes' had to start farming all over again. We lived dere
a good bit after freedom, ma say. My mother stay wid 'em for about three years after freedom.

"Fore freedom my mother used to go to de white folks church--white and black used to worship
together den. She jined at de old Cypress Creek Baptist Church at Robertville. A white preacher
baptized her dere. De old church is dere at Robertville now. After freedom de colored folks
had dey own churches.

"Dey tell me dat in slav'ry time, some of de overseers treat 'em mighty mean. Some of 'em work
'em in de day, 'en in de night, weaving. Now some of 'em treat 'em good; but some of 'em treat
'em mean. Dey have to run away into de bay.

"Do I know of anybody what sees ghosts? Yes'm, dere's a lady over dere what say she always
see a ghost come and whip a woman dat asittin' on de steps. Sometime she say she goin' to report
it to de police, but I ain't never seen none, 'ceptin' in my dreams.

"I sure is glad you come, Missus. I been jes' awaitin' for somebody." Boys used to tell me
I was born on Buck Branch. Think I was born de 12th. day of February cause I was bout 16 years
old when freedom come. Another person born de same day en de same year en I might look on dey
tombstone en get de date."

"Miles Ford was my father en my mother, Jennie Ford, but dey didn' live on de same place. Father
belonged to Alias Ford at Lake View en mother come from Timmonsville what used to be called
Sparrow Swamp. Railroad run through dere change name from Sparrow Swamp to Timmonsville."

"Just like I tell you, Zonia Rogers was my boss en he wasn' so bad. He whip me a few times
when I did things dat I oughtened to do. Sometimes I was pesty en he whip me wid a switch,
but he never whip so hard. I tell de truth, Zonia Rogers was a good man. Give his slaves good
pole houses to live in up in de quarter. Never had but five slaves to start wid en dat de reason
he just had two slave house in de quarter. Sometimes dey slept on de floor en den another time,
some had homemade bedstead wid de framework made out of black gum."

"We had meat en corn bread to eat all de time en dey gave us fried meat en rye bread en flour
bread to eat every now en den. Made rye bread in time of de war, but didn' get much flour bread
to eat. Massa would weigh meat out on his hand. If anybody wanted meat, he hand it to dem on
his hand en say, 'Here it is.' Den some of de slaves had gardens dat dey work at 12 o'clock
en at night. Never was much to catch possums, but was great hand to catch rabbits. Boss had
dog name Trip dat he wouldn' have taken $200.00 for. If I had him now, I wouldn' take $200.00
for him neither cause dat dog would stay at a tree all night. See him stay dere from early
in de day till dark."

"Slaves wore one piece garment in de summer en used thick woolen garment in de winter. When
I got large, had wrapper en little breeches to wear. Sometimes de clothes was all wool en sometimes
dey was just half wool. Yes, sir, I know all bout how de cloth was made in dat day en time.
Three treadle made dis here jeanes cloth dat was for de nigger clothes en white people wore
four treadle cloth. Had Sunday clothes in slavery time, too, en made de shoes right dere home.
Tanned de leather en made shoes called nigger brogans dat dey used in de turpentine woods.
Dese here low quarters. I married in 1873. Just had common clothes when I was married."

"I remember my grandfather all right. He de one told me how to catch otters. Told me how to
set traps. Heard my grandfather tell bout whippin slaves for stealin. Grandfather told me not
to take things dat were not mine. If a pile of corn was left at night, I was told not to bother
it. In breakin corn, sometimes people would make a pile of corn in de grass en leave it en
den come back en get it in de night. Grandfather told me not to never bother nothin bout people's
things."

"De first work dat I remember bout doin in slavery time, I hold mules for my boss. Drove wagon
for Mr. Rogers. If people wanted any haulin done, he told me to help dem en collect for it.
He never wouldn' ax any questions bout what I collected for de haulin. Just let me have dat
money. I remember I bought cloth dat cost 12-1/2 cents a yard wid de first money I get. Den
I bought a girl 10 cents worth of candy en sent it to her. Hear she stamped it in de ground
wid her foot. Girl never even mentioned it to me en I ain' never bothered wid her again. Dis
girl en me bout de same age."

"Don' remember much bout my first Missus only dat she had a bump on her neck. Second Missus
was good to me en just like I tell you, Zonia Rogers was a good man. He hired white men to
plow, but he never put nobody ahead of me no time. I take dogs en slip out in de woods en hunt
rabbits. White man tell on me en my boss ain' never said nothin bout dis to me yet. Never had
no overseer en no driver whe' I stay."

"Oh, dere was bout two or three hundred acres in de Rogers place. Slaves worked from daylight
till dark in de winter time. Always be up fore day cause my boss generally called de slaves
fore day. Hear him say, 'Rob, come, come. Aaron, come, come.' We didn' work hard though. Didn'
work in hot sun in June, July en August cause in slavery time dey allow us to take out at 10
or 11 o'clock en go swimmin. Den we had to be back in de field bout three o'clock. Had plenty
poor white neighbors bout dere en boss hire me to man like dat one time. Poor man give bout
1-1/2 hours for noon whe' I get two hours back home en I never go back de next day. Boss say,
'Why don' you go back to work?' I tell him dat fellow wouldn' give me long enough time for
noon. My boss wouldn' force me to go back when I tell him dat."

"I see one or two slaves whipped in slavery time, but I didn' see anybody whipped bad. If a
slave on one place was accused of takin a thing on another place, dey have a trial bout it.
Justice might tell dem how many licks to give him en point man to do it. I hear dat some been
whipped way off till dey died, but old man Everett Nichols wouldn' never whip his slaves. He
had son dat whipped some rough darkies dat he got off another place cause old man Nichols wouldn'
want strange darkies to marry girls on his place. I hear way up de country dat dey whipped
dem till dey died right dere."

"Dey had jails in slavery time at Marion for de slaves. If dey caught slaves dat had run away,
dey would put dem in jail till dey Massa sent after dem. Sometimes dey would hold dem en sell
dem for debt. Dey tell me some put on stand en sold dere at Marion, but I never saw any sold.
Just hear bout dat, but I remembers I saw dis. Saw six men tied together wid a chain one Saturday
evenin dat was comin from Virginia en gwine to Texas."

"Some people helped de slaves to read en write en some of dem didn'. Boy learnt one of my uncles
to read, but didn' want him to write. People learn to spell in dem times better den dey do
now. Some of de slaves could read de Bible en den others of dem could write dese pass dat dey
had to get from dey Massa fore dey could go from one plantation to another. I recollects my
mother's father could write a pass."

"Dere wasn' no church on de plantation whe' I stay. Had preachin in Mr. Ford's yard sometimes
en den another time de slaves went to white people's church at Bear Swamp. Boss tell slaves
to go to meetin cause he say he pay de preacher. Dean Ears, white man, gave out speech to de
slaves one day dere to Nichols. Slaves sat in gallery when dey go dere. He tell dem to obey
dey Massa en Missus. Den he say, 'God got a clean kitchen to put you in. You think you gwine
be free, but you ain' gwine be free long as dere an ash in Ashpole Swamp.' White folks complain
bout de slaves gettin two sermons en dey get one. After dat, dey tell old slaves not to come
to church till after de white folks had left. Dat never happen till after de war was over."

"I sho remember when freedom come here. Remember when my boss told me I was free. My father
come dere en say he wanted his boys. Boss called, 'Aaron, come here, your daddy wants you.
I want you to go.' He told me not to go till de news came though. Please me, I felt like a
new man."

"I hate to speak what I think bout slavery. Think it a pity de slaves freed cause I know I'm
worried more now den in slavery time. Dere got to be a change made. People got to turn. I belong
to de Methodist Church en I think everybody ought to belong to de church. God built de church
for de people en dey ought to go dere en be up en doin in de church. Dat dey duty."

  =Source:= Aaron Ford, Ex-Slave, Age 80-90, (No other information
                 given by interviewer.)

                 Personal interview by H. Grady Davis, June, 1937.

  Project 1885 -1-
  District #4
  Spartanburg, S.C.
  May 28, 1937

  FOLKLORE: EX-SLAVES

Six miles east of Spartanburg on R.F.D. No. 2, the writer found Aunt Charlotte Foster, a colored
woman who said she was 98 years old. Her mother was Mary Johnson and her father's name was
John Johnson. She is living with her oldest daughter, whose husband is John Montgomery.

She stated she knew all about slavery times, that she and her mother belonged to William Beavers
who had a plantation right on the main road from Spartanburg to Union, that the farm was near
Big Brown Creek, but she didn't know what larger stream the creek flowed into. Her father lived
on another place somewhere near Limestone. She and her mother were hands on the farm and did
all kinds of hard work. She used to plow, hoe, dig and do anything the men did on the plantation.
"I worked in the hot sun." Every now and then she would get a sick headache and tell her master
she had it; then he would tell her to go sit down awhile and rest until it got better.

She had a good master; he was a Christian if there ever was one. He had a wife that was fussy
and mean. "I didn't call her Mistus, I called her Minnie." But, she quickly added, "Master
was good to her, just as kind and gentle like." When asked what was the matter with the wife,
she just shook her head and did not reply. Asked if she had rather live now or during slavery
times, she replied that if her master was living she would be willing to go back and live with
him. "Every Sunday he would call us chilluns by name, would sit down and read the Bible to
us; then he would pray. If that man ain't in the Kingdom, then nobody's there."

She said her master never whipped any of the slaves, but she had heard cries and groans coming
from other plantations at five o'clock in the morning where the slaves were being beaten and
whipped. Asked why the slaves were being beaten, she replied rather vehemently, "Just because
they wanted to beat 'em; they could do it, and they did." She said she had seen the blood running
down the backs of some slaves after they had been beaten.

One day a girl about 16 years of age came to her house and said she'd just as leave be dead
as to take the beatings her master gave her, so one day she did go into the woods and eat some
poison oak. "She died, too."

On one plantation she saw an old woman who used to get so many beatings that they put a frame
work around her body and ran it up into a kind of steeple and placed a bell in the steeple.
"Dat woman had to go around with that bell ringing all the time."

"I got plenty to eat in dem days, got just what the white folks ate. One day Master killed
a deer, brung it in the house, and gave me some of the meat. There was plenty of deer den,
plenty of wild turkeys, and wild hogs. Master told me whenever I seed a deer to holler and
he would kill it."

When slaves were freed her mother moved right away to her father's place, but she said the
two sons of her master would not give her mother anything to eat then. "Master was willing,
but dem boys would not give us anything to live on, not even a little meal."

"After the Civil War was over and the Yankee soldiers came to our place, dey just took what
they wanted to eat, went into de stable and leave their poor, broken-down horses and would
ride off with a good horse. They didn't hurt anybody, but just stole all they wanted."

One day she said her master pointed out Abe Lincoln to her. A long line of cavalry rode down
the road and presently there came Abe Lincoln riding a horse, right behind them. She didn't
have much to say about Jeff Davis, except she heard the grown people talking about him. "Booker
Washington? Well, he was all right trying to help the colored people and educate them. But
he strutted around and didn't do much. People ought to learn to read the Bible, but if you
educate people too high it make a fool out of them. They won't work when they gets an education,
just learns how to get out of work, learns how to steal enough to keep alive. They are not
taught how to work, how do you expect them to work when they ain't taught to work? Well, I
guess I would steal too before I starved to death, but I ain't had to steal yet. No man can
say he ever gave me a dollar but what I didn't earn myself. I was taught to work and I taught
my chilluns to work, but this present crowd of niggers! They won't do."

She stated her mother had twelve children and the log house they lived in was weatherboarded;
it was much warmer in such a house during cold weather than the houses are now. "Every crack
was chinked up with mud and we had lots of wood." Her mother made all their beds, and had four
double beds sitting in the room. She made the ticking first and placed the straw in the mattresses.
"They beat the beds you can get now. These men make half beds, den sell 'em to you, but dey
ain't no good. Dey don't know how to make 'em."

Aunt Charlotte said she remembered when the stars fell. "That was something awful to see. Dey
just fell in every direction. Master said to wake the chilluns up and let 'em see it. Everybody
thought the world was coming to an end. We went out on de front porch to look at the sight;
we'd get scared and go back into de house, den come out again to see the sight. It was something
awful, but I sure saw it." (Records show that the great falling of stars happened in the year
1833, so Aunt Charlotte must be older than she claims, if she saw this eventful sight. Yet
she was positive she had seen the stars falling all over the heavens. She made a sweep of her
arm from high to low to illustrate how they fell.)

  =Source:= Aunt Charlotte Foster, RFD #2, Spartanburg, S.C.
  Interviewer: F.S. DuPre, Spartanburg, S.C.

  Project #1655
  Stiles M. Scruggs
  Columbia, S.C.

  JOHN FRANKLIN
  EX-SLAVE 84 YEARS OLD.

"I is the son of John Franklin and Susan Bobo Franklin. I was born August 10th, 1853 in Spartanburg
County. My daddy was a slave on the plantation of Marster Henry Franklin, sometimes called
Hill and my mammy was a slave on the plantation of Marster Benjamin Bobo. They was brother-in-law's
and lived on a plantation joining each other.

"My white marsters and their mistresses was good to us and to all their slaves. We have plenty
to eat and wear, on the Bobo plantation, from the time I can remember up to the time I was
'bout eleven years old. In 1861, my marsters go away with their neighbors, to fight the damn
Yankees and the plantation was left in charge of the mistresses and worked by the slaves. The
slaves all raised 'bundance of rations, but pretty soon there was a scarcity 'cause they was
no coffee at the store and stragglin' Yankees or what they call 'Rebel soldiers' come 'long
every few days and take all they can carry.

"That shortage begun in 1862, and it kept on gettin' worse all the time, and when Lincoln set
all niggers free, there was such a shortage of food and clothes at our white folks houses,
that we decided to move to a Dutch Fork plantation. My daddy go 'long with other niggers to
fight for 'Uncle Abe' and we never see him no more. Soon after that me and mammy told our mistress
goodbye, and move down to her daddy's place, 'bout ten miles from Chapin. I was ten years old
that year and we raise corn, beans, 'taters and chickens for ourselves and to sell, when we
could go to Columbia and sell it and buy coffee and other things that we could not raise at
home. So we do pretty well for a year or two and we keep up our tradin' trips to Columbia,
which 'counts for me and Ben Lyles, my cousin 'bout my age, comin' to Columbia on February
16, 1868. We sold out and stayed all night at the home of Ben's uncle. He had us do some tasks
'bout his home on Lincoln Street the next day and it was way in the day befo' we start home.
We walk north on what was known then as the Winnsboro road 'til we come to Broad River road,
and we take it. There was one or two farm houses north of Elmwood Street on the Winnsboro road
at that time and only one house on Broad River road, the farm house of Mr. Coogler, which is
still standin'. There was a big woodsland at the forks of the Winnsboro road and Broad River road.

"After we walk 'long the Broad River road, what seem to us for a quarter of a mile, we see
four or five old men standin' on the left side of the road wavin' a white flag. We walks out
in the woods on the right side opposite and watches. Soon we see what seem lak a thousand men
on hosses comin' briskly 'long. The men keep wavin' the white flag. After many had passed,
one big bearded man rein up his hoss and speak with the men wavin' the white flag. They tell
the soldier there am no 'Rebel soldier' in Columbia and the blue-clad army am welcome; beggin'
them to treat the old folks, women and children, well. The Yankee soldier set straight and
solemn on his hoss, and when the old men finish and hand him a paper, he salute and tell them,
'Your message will be laid befo' General Sherman'.

"All this time the ground am shakin' from the roar of big guns 'cross the river. Ben and me
run thru the woods to our footlog and see thousands still comin' into Columbia, all 'long.
We get 'fraid and stayed in the woods 'til we get out of sight of the soldiers. But we ain't
got far over the top of the hill 'til we come face to face with more men on hosses. One of
the men, who seem to be the leader, stop his hoss and ask us boys some questions. We answer
as best we can, when he grin at us and pull out some money and give us a nickel a piece.

"We travel on toward Chapin and meet our mammies and many other people, some them white. They
all seem scared and my mammy and Ben's mammy and us, turns up the river and camps on the hill,
for the night, in the woods. We never sleep much, for it was 'most as light as day, and the
smell of smoke was terrible. We could see people runnin' in certain parts of Columbia, sometimes.
Next mornin' we look over the city from the bluff and only a few houses was standin' and hundreds
of tumble-down chimneys and the whole town was still smokin'.

"I dreams yet 'bout that awful time, but I thank God that he has permitted me to live 'long
enough to see the city rebuilt and it stretching far over the area where we hid in the trees."

  Project #-1655
  Cassels R. Tiedeman
  Charleston, S.C.

  FOLKLORE

  EMMA FRASER--EX-SLAVE

Emma Fraser, a pathetic old character, probably on account of many hardships, and the lack
of family to care for her properly, shows the wear and tear of years. She was born, in slavery,
on a plantation near Beaufort, of a mother whom she scarcely remembers, and cannot recall the
name of the plantation, nor the name of her mother's owner. She talks very little but is most
emphatic about the time of her birth. "I born in rebel time, on de plantation down by Beaufort.
My ma say I a leetle gal when dey shoot de big gun on Fort Sumter. All dem people done dead
an' gone now. I aint know dey name any mo'. Wid de troublulation and bombation I hab to tend
wid an' de brain all wore down, you aint blame me for not know.

"I wants to go to Hebben now an' when de roll is call up dere an' I be dere, de Lord, he find
a hiding place for me. I goes to chu'ch when I kin an' sing too, but ef I sing an' it doan
mobe (move) me any, den dat a sin on de Holy Ghost; I be tell a lie on de Lord. No I aint sing
when it doan mobe me. You mus'n ax me to do dat.

"One day I see a big automobile on de street wid a old gemmun (gentleman) ob slavery time settin'
in em. I goes up to em an' ax how old he t'ink I is, an' he say dat I come way, way back dere
in de slavery day, an' he know what he say."

  =Source:= Interview with the writer

          Emma Fraser, 98 Coming St, Charleston, S.C.
          Approx. 80 years old.

  S-260-264-N
  Hattie Mobley
  Project 935
  Richland County

  ADELE FROST

  EX-SLAVE 93 YEARS OF AGE

"I was bo'n in Adams Run, South Carolina, January 21st. 1844. My father name was Robert King,
an' my mother was Minder King. My father was bo'n in Adams Run but my mother came from Spring
Grove, South Carolina. I had eight brothers an' sisters, Maria, Lovie, Josephine, Eliza, Victoria,
Charlie an' Robert King. The other two died w'en dey was babies. Only three of us is alive
now. Maria, who lives in Adams Run is 95 years old. I was brought heh at the age of twelve
to be maid for Mr. Mitchell, from who' I didn't git any money but a place to stay an' a plenty
of food an' clothes. My bed was the ole time four post' with pavilion hangin' over the top.

"I's use to wear thin clothes in hot weather an' warm comfortable ones in the winter. On Sunday
I wear a ole time bonnet, a'm hole apron, shoes an' stockin'. My Master was kind to his slaves
an' his overseer was all Negroes. He had a large fa'm at Parkers' Ferry. He worked his slaves
'til twelve in the day an' the res' of the day they could do their own work.

"I never gone to school in my life an' massa nor missus ever help me to read.

"On the plantation was a meetin' house in which wen' used to have meetin's every Chuseday night,
Wednesday night, an' Thursday night. I use to attend the white church. Doctor Jerico was de
pastor. Collud people had no preacher but dey had leader. Every slave go to church on Sunday
'cause dey didn't have any work to do for Massa. My grandma use to teach the catekism an' how
to sing.

"Co'n shuckin' was always done in de night. Dere was also a dance. Es de distance was five
miles we would walk dere, work an' dance all night an' come back early nex' mornin'.

"Fun'rals was at night an' w'en ready to go to the graveyard every body would light a lightud
knot as torch while every body sing. This is one of the songs wen' use to sing,

  'Goin' to carry dis body
  To the grave-yard,
  Grave-yard don' you know me?
  To lay dis body down.'

"These are some the games wen' use to play,

  Have a han'ful of co'n den say,
  "Trow kissey Wilson let him go."

while the res' is to guess how many co'n is lef in his han's.

We ain't had no doctor, our Missus an' one of de slave' would 'tend to the sick.

The Yankees take t'ree nights to march through I was afraid of dem an' clim' into a tree. One
call me down an' say, "I am your frien'". He give me a piece of money an' I wasn't 'fraid no mo.

After de war I still work' as a maid for Mr. Mitchell.

My husband was Dan'l Frost. We didn't have no weddin', jus' married at de jedge office. We
had three chillun.

I joined the church 'cause I wanted to be a christian an' I think every body should be. I move
here wid my gran' daughter, bout ten year ago.

  Reference: Interview with (Mrs) Adele Frost who is supported by her
  Master's people.

  Project #-1655
  Martha S. Pinckney
  Charleston, S.C.

  FOLKLORE

  AMOS GADSDEN

"My name is Amos Gadsden, not Gadson, like some call it--the same old name Gadsden"--he added,
with a friendly smile.

"I was born at St. Philip's Street; that is where old Miss lived then. (We belonged to old
Mr. Titus Bissell) I don't rightly know what year, but I was nineteen years old before the
War, when the family Bible was lost; old Mistress had my birth written in the Bible. I keep
my age by Mas. Henry, he died three years ago; he was 83, and I was five years older than he
was, so I am 88. Oh, yes, I can remember slavery! My grandmother was a 'daily gift' to old
Mistress when they were both children. Grandmother was nurse to the children; she lived over
a hundred years and nursed all the children and grandchildren. She died at the Bissell's home
on Rutledge Avenue years and years after slavery. Mother Ellen was laundress; she died first
part of the War. My father tended the yard and was coachman.

"I never got a slap from my mistress; I was treated like a white person; if my mistress talked
to me to correct me, I want to cry. Sometime I slept at the foot of my mistress bed." Whatever
the occasion, Amos was very proud of it, and mentioned it a second time in his story, and added--"it
ain't every little boy that could say that.

"We spent the summers in Charleston--winters on the plantation; Cypress Plantation which belonged
to Mr. Bissell's father, Mr. Baker, was near Green Pond. The smoke house was there full of
meat; the fields and the gardens were there and everybody had plenty to eat--but still there
was bad people just like they are now. You can make yourself respectable, but some never do
it. The bad ones had to be punished; they got a few lashes on 'um. Now they go to Court, and
they go to jail--If there was a place to whip bad coons, they would be scared to behave like
they do now--the jails wouldn't be so full. There was no bad treatment of our people. Some
neighbors that never owned any slaves, hired negro help and ill-treated them--old mistress
felt so bad about this.

"I grew up with the white children in the family, but I was trained to step aside at all times
for white people. My grandmother's name was Affy Calvert; she was a 'daily gift' to old Mistress;
she was given to her when they were both children and trained up in her service. Old Mistress
died long before her because she lived over a hundred years, and nursed all the children and
grandchildren. She brought me up more than my mother; she and I never gave up the family."

Amos makes a strange statement: "Old Mausa, Mr. T.L. Bissell, (voice lowered) was a =Yankee=,
but he lived long before the War," with an indulgent smile, and in a lower voice, with his
hand up to his mouth he continued as though communicating a dangerous confidence, "Oh, yes,
Ma'am--but he was a =Yankee=!" What Amos meant will remain a family secret.

"I was trained by old Tony for yard boy before the War. I looked out that no harm came to the
older children, but one day they got away from me," Amos chuckled, "they went to play on the
logs in the lumber yard, around what is now Halsey's Mill. The water was full of timber, open
to the river, (Ashley) and the tide was running out. One of the boys got on a log, and two
others on another log, and the little scamps paddled the logs out, but when they found themselves
in the tide they were scared, and screamed at the top of their voices. I wasn't far off and
heard them. I was scared too. I jumped into the water and swam to get a bateau; when they saw
me they hushed. The tide had carried them some distance before I caught up with them--was down
near Chisolm's Rice Mill. Mr. Chisolm saw it; he gave me a five dollar bill, Confederate money,
for saving the children."

Amos throws a new light on old history;--"Before the War come here it was down in Beaufort,
on the Port Royal Road; Confederates on one side, Yankees on the other, and things happen here
that belong to War. One evening, early dusk, because it was winter, I was with two white boys
on the corner of Hasell street and East Bay. We stopped to watch a balloon slowly floating
in the sky. I never saw anything like it before--it looked so pretty--and while we were looking
a streak of fire came straight down from the balloon to Russell's Planing Mill at the foot
of Hasell street,[1] right by us. In a short time the mill was on fire; nothing could put it
out. One place after another caught, and big flakes of fire were bursting up and flying through
the air, and falling on other buildings. (illustrating with his arms, hands, and whole body)
The first church that burned was the Circular Church on Meeting Street; then Broad street and
the Roman Catholic Church, and St. Andrews Hall. Yes, Ma'am, 'course I remember St. Andrews
Hall, right next to the Roman Catholic Cathedral on Broad Street! That was 1861, before I went
to Virginia with Dr. H. E. Bissel. That balloon went on down to Beaufort, I s'pose. Yes Ma'am,
=I saw it= drop that fire on Russell's Mill.

"I went to Virginia with Dr. H.E. Bissell in the Army; he was a surgeon. A camp of Negroes
went ahead to prepare the roads; pioneers, they called them. I remember Capt. Colcock, (he
mentioned several other officers,) Honey Hill--terrible fighting--fight and fight! had to 'platoon'
it. I was behind the fighting with Dr. Bissell. I held arms and legs while he cut them off,
till after a while I didn't mind it. Hard times came to the Army; only corn to eat. When the
bombardment came to Charleston the family moved to Greenville; I was in Virginia with the Doctor.
The railroad bridge across the Ashley River was burned to prevent the Yankees from coming into
Charleston; the ferry boat 'Fannie' crossed the river to make connections with the Savannah
Railroad. The 54th Massachusetts Regiment was coming down to Charleston; they destroyed railroads
as they came. Sherman set fire everywhere he went--didn't do much fighting, just wanted to
destroy as he went.

"After Freedom, we went back to the Plantation; lived catch as catch can. The smoke house had
been emptied by the Yankees, and no money. Lieutenant Duffy, at the Citadel, fell in love with
me and offered me a place to work with him for money. I took it and worked for him til he left--but
I didn't give up the family. I work for Mas. Titus now; haven't stopped calling Mr. Orvel Bissell
'Mas' today; I raised him but I still call him Mas. Orvel. My young Missus was the one who
taught me; she kept a school for us; we took it for a play school; when I was a little boy
I knew the alphabet.

"We buried our valuables in sacks in holes, then put plants over the hiding places. The silver
was buried by Cypress Pond; and we saved all buried valuables.

"To show how Mas. Titus (Bissell) will look out for me--a man I rented from wanted to put some
'coon' in my room. I had paid him the rent, but one day I came and find my things being put
out. I went right to Mas. Titus and told him. He was mad, and, excusing the words, he said,
'do you mean that damned so-and-so is putting your things out, well, we'll go there'--so we
went, and the man was so scared he wanted to put the things back but Mas. Titus said: 'He sha'nt
bother with any such damned person as you are. I'll find a proper place for him,' and he found
me a good room on Short Street where I stayed for 8 years until the house was sold--that make
I move on Elliott street where I am now.

"My wife is long dead, and I have no children--this is my niece; my brother's daughter. He
went from this State three years ago and we have never heard a word from him since. I take
care of her. Does she do right by me? She got to! I make her!"

    =Source:= Amos Gadsden, 88, 20 Elliott Street, Charleston, S.C.

    [Footnote 1: King, William L. in "The Newspaper Press of Charleston,
    S.C." Lucas and Richardson (Book Press) 1882--200p--pp-120-121.
    Charleston Library Society.

    Confirms the statement that the fire of 1861 started in the
    Russell's Planing Mill, though no mention is made of its origin.]

  Project 1886 -1-
  District #4
  Spartanburg, S.C.
  From Field Notes
  Folk-Lore
  May 26, 1937

  FOLKLORE: EX-SLAVES:

Journeying on Cudd Street this morning and stopping at the "Old Ladies' Home" (an institution
for negroes), the writer found two ex-slaves sitting on the porch passing the time of day with
those who passed the house. They both spoke very respectfully and asked me to come in.

One was seated and she asked me to have a seat by her. Her name was Janie Gallman and she said
she was 84 years of age. Upon my telling her my name she stated she knew my father and grandfather
and had worked for them in days gone by. "If your father or Mr. Floyd was living I wouldn't
want for a thing".

She was born in slavery on the plantation of Bill Keenan in Union County. The place was situated
between Pacolet River and Fairforest Creek and near where Governor Gist had a plantation. Her
mother and father were both owned by Bill Keenan and he was a good master. She never saw any
of the slaves get a whipping and never saw any slave in chains. When she, her father, and mother
were set free, she said, "My master gave my father a barrel of meal, a cow and a calf and a
wagon of corn when he sot him free. He gave every one of his slaves the same. He had a big
plantation, but I don't know how many acres of land there was, but it was a big place."

She was married three times and her mother had 12 children, but she has never had any.

Her young life was spent in playing with the children of the white overseer. They used to jump
rope most of the time. Whenever the overseer left home to spend the night anywhere, his wife
would send for her to spend the night with the family. The overseer was "poor white trash".
She had plenty to eat in slavery days. Her father and mother had their own garden, and she
did her share of eating the vegetables out of the garden. She remembered seeing plenty of wild
turkeys as a child, but as for hogs and cattle, she did not remember them running wild. She
had heard of conjuring, but she did not know how it was done--never saw anybody who had been
conjured--yet she had seen ghosts two or three times. One night she saw a light waving up against
a piece of furniture, then come towards her, then flicker about the room, but she wasn't able
to see anybody holding the light. She had heard of headless men walking around, yet had never
seen any.

A neighbor told her a woman ghost came to her house one night, just sat on the front steps
and said nothing, repeated her visits several nights in succession, but said no word as she
sat on the front step. One night the neighbor's husband asked the ghost what did she want,
why she sat on the steps and said nothing. The ghost then spoke and told him to follow her.
He followed her and she led him to the basement of the house and told him to dig in the corner.
He did and pretty soon he unearthed a jar of money. The woman ghost told him to take just a
certain amount and to give the rest to a certain person. The ghost told the man if he didn't
give the money to the person she named, she would come back and tear him apart. He very obediently
took the small amount of the money and gave the balance where the ghost directed, and he never
saw the woman sitting on his steps any more.

Another time she heard footsteps approaching a certain house in the yard, but she could never
see anybody walking, though she could distinctly hear the gravel crunching as the ghost walked
along. "God is the only one who can do any conjuring. I don't believe anybody else can." My
father and mother was Bill and Mary Kinard who was slaves of John Kinard. The year I was born,
I allus heard say, there was a big fire near Columbia, S. C. It started in the woods near the
river, spread over all parts there and the people, womens with new-born infants, had to leave
in a hurry, going back from the fire and crossing the river, to Edgefield County. I 'member
there was a big fire in Prosperity back in about 1875.

"I was a girl in slavery, worked in the fields from the time I could work at all, and was whipped
if I didn't work. I worked hard. I was born on John Bedenbaugh's place; I was put up on the
block and sold when a girl, but I cried and held tight to my mistress's dress, who felt sorry
for me and took me back with her. She was Mrs. Sarah Bedenbaugh, as fine a woman as ever lived.

"Marse Bedenbaugh had a 5-horse farm, and about 20 slaves. We didn't have time to teach them
to read and write; never went to church--never went to any school. After the war some started
a nigger school and a brush-arbor church for niggers.

"When the Yankees went through their soldiers stole everthing, all horses and supplies. The
soldiers stopped at places, and like the soldiers who come home foot-sore, they was lousy and
dirty. Our soldiers come with canteen shoes [TN: 'and' was crossed out in the original] and
old blankets swung on their backs and shoulders. The people would send wagons out to meet them
and bring them in, some of them could hardly walk. The Yankee soldiers would take our rations
at our gates and eat them up. They would blow bugles at we children and beat drums. Our old
Missus would take victuals to them.

"The paterollers down there where we lived was Geo. Harris, Lamb Crew, Jim Jones, and Theo.
Merchant. They bothered us lots. On the first day of the month, some was put up on the whipping
block and whipped with an oak paddle with holes in it to make blisters; then de blisters were
cut open with cowhide whips.

"When freedom come, all slaves went to some place to get work. My father give me six cuts a
day to work in the house to spin the yarn. My mistress used to have me pick up de sheckles
for her when she was making a homespun dress. In the winter time we had homespuns, too, but
sometimes had flannel underwear. I helped at the corn mill, too, always went there and tote
a half bushel corn many days. The mill belonged to Capt. McNary. I worked hard, plowed, cut
wheat, split cord wood, and other work just like a man.

"When any niggers died they had funerals like they do now, 'cept the pallbearers den would
sing. They carried the bodies in wagons, and the preacher would say words while they was going
to the grave.

"When the soldiers was here, I 'member how they would sing:

  "I'm all de way from Georgia,
  I'm all the way to fight,
  I left my good old mother,
  To come here to fight."

  "Joe Bowers, Joe Bowers,
  He had another wife,
  He's all de way from Missouri,
  To come here to fight."

"I didn't like slavery. I'd rather live like now.

"I thought Abraham Lincoln was a big man, a fine man. I thought Jeff Davis was all right. I
don't know nothing about Booker Washington." When the Ku Klux went through, they never hurt
anybody at our place. The Padder-rollers never did harm any of Marse George's slaves--he would
not allow it.

"After the war when I married, I moved to Newberry, but first, I moved to the Jalapa section
and lived there ten years.

"I allus 'member the old wheat mill dat old Captain Ellerson had in Dutch Fork, on Cannons
Creek. All the neighbors would take their wheat there to grind." It is a two-room house which
dey rent; and dey take care of me. I am old, weak and in bed much of de time. I can't work
any, now. My grandniece had to give up her job so she could stay home and take care of me.
Dat makes it hard fer us.

"I don't remember much about de war nor de Ku Klux 'cept what I done tole you befo'. Dey never
bothered us. My master would not let 'em bother us. He was George Gallman and he had a big
farm and lots of slaves. Just atter freedom come he made a coffin shop in back of his house
in a little one-room shack. He made coffins fer people about de country. It got to be han'ted,
and sometimes niggers could see ghosts around dere at night, so dey say, I never saw none, myself.

"Master George and his mistress was good to de niggers. Dey always give dem plenty to eat.
I had it good, and never bothered about nothing den. De slaves never learn't to read and write;
but dey went to de whitefolks' church. Dey had to go, and set in de back or in de gallery.

"When freedom come, de slaves hired out mostly as share-croppers. A little later, some got
small farms to rent. Since dat time dey have worked at most anything dey could get to do. De
ones dat moved to town worked at odd jobs, some at carpenter work, janitor work or street work;
but most of dem worked in fields around town.

"I married Hattie Eckles. When she died I went to Jalapa and lived ten years dere; den atter
I got too old to work, I come to town and lived wid my kin.

"I was about twelve years old when dey made me go to de field to work. Befo' dat and after
dat, too, I worked around de barn and took care of de stock.

"As fer eats, we had plenty. We had good collards, turnips and other good vegetables. De master
has his own hogs, too, and we had plenty meat to eat.

"Christmas was a big day fer us. We never worked dat day. We had good dinner, and could do
what we wanted to do. We never had to work in de fields on Saturday. We would do washing or
go hunting or something else.

"All I know about slavery being all right, is dat I had a good time, better dan now. Abraham
Lincoln was a good man. I don't know nothing agin' him. Never heard anything about Jefferson
Davis. I think Booker Washington is a good man. He do good fer de niggers in giving dem education.

"I joined de church when I was young because others was joining. I think everybody ought to
belong to de church."

  =Source:= Simon Gallman (80), Newberry, S.C.
          Interviewer: G.L. Summer, Newberry, S.C. (9/3/37)

  Project 1885
  District #4
  Spartanburg, S.C.
  June 1, 1937

  Edited by:
  Martha Ritter

  FOLKLORE: EX-SLAVES

"I was born in 1861, at Gary's Lane, in Newberry County, S.C. My father and mother and me were
slaves of Dr. John Gary who lived in a big fine house there. They had lots of slaves, and a
large plantation. After freedom come he told them they could go where they wanted to, but they
stayed on with Doc Gary. He was a good master; he never allowed any paderollers around his
place; he always give the slave a pass when he went off. When de Ku Klux went up and down the
road on horses, all covered with white sheets, old Doc wouldn't allow them on his place.

"We was allowed to hunt, and we hunted rabbits, 'possums, a few foxes in the neighborhood,
partridges, squirrels, and doves.

"We went to school after freedom come; we had a school for niggers and had a church for niggers,
too.

"Doc Gary had a big piano in his house, and most everybody else had a fiddle or Jews harp.
He had a wide fireplace in his kitchen where he cooked over it, in skillets.

"I think Abe Lincoln was a fine man and Jeff Davis was all right. Booker Washington is a smart
fellow." Pa Cudjo, he been keep my age in de Bible en he tell me dat I come here de first year
of freedom. Monday Woodberry was my grandfather en Celina Woodberry, my grandmother. I tell
you, I is seen a day, since I come here. My mammy, she been drown right down dere in de Pee
Dee river, fore I get big enough to make motion en talk what I know. Dat how-come it be dat
Pa Cudjo raise me. You see, Pa Cudjo, he been work down to de swamp a heap of de time en been
run boat en rafter up en down dat river all bout dere. Ma, she get word, one day, she better
come cross de river to de Sand Hills to see bout grandmammy cause she been took down wid de
fever en was bad off. Pa Cudjo tell her de river been mighty high, but dat he would risk to
take us. Say, Ma, she get in de boat wid Pa Cudjo en take me in her lap en dey start cross
de river. De wind, it begin gettin higher en higher en de boat, it go dis way en den it go
de other way. Cose I never recollect nothin bout dat day cause I won' nothin, so to speak,
but a sucklin child den. But I hear Pa Cudjo speak bout de water wash rougher en rougher en
knock side dat boat just like it been comin out de ocean. Say, fore he think bout he in trouble,
de wind just snatch he hat right out in de water en when he reach out after it, he hear Ma
holler en de next thing he know, us all been throwed right out in de water. Yes, mam, de boat
turned over en dumped us all out in dat big old crazy river. Pa Cudjo say, if he ain' never
had no mind to pray fore den, he know, when he see dat boat gwine down dat stream, dere won'
nothin' left to do, but to pray. Pa Cudjo tell dat he make for de bank fast as he could get
dere cause he know de devil been in de river dat day en he never know whe' he might go. I reckon
you hear talk bout, Pa Cudjo, he been a cussin man. Never had no mind what he was gwine let
loose no time. But poor Ma, she been a buxom woman, so dey tell me, en when she hit de bottom
of dat river, she never didn' come to de top no more. Like I tell you, I never been long come
here den en I ain' been fast gwine under de water cause dere won' no heaviness nowhe' bout
me. Pa Cudjo say, he pray en he cuss en when he look up, he see a boat makin up de river wid
two men in it en me lyin dere 'tween dem. You see, dey had come along en pick me up bout a
mile from dere floatin down de river. Now, I tellin you what come out of Pa Cudjo mouth. Pa
Cudjo say, when he see me, he been so happy, he pray en he cuss. Say, he thank de Lord for
savin me en he thank de devil for lettin me loose. Yes, mam, I tell you, I been raise up a
motherless child right dere wid Pa Cudjo en I been take de storm many a day. I say, if you
is determine to go through wid a thing, God knows, you can make it. Cose Pa Cudjo, he been
mighty good to me, but he used to have dem cussin spells, my Lord. Been love to keep up fun
all de time."

"Oh, de colored people never had no liberty, not one speck, in slavery time. Old man Wash Woodberry,
he was rough wid his niggers, but dem what lived on Miss Susan Stevenson's plantation, dey
been fare good all de time. I know what I talk bout cause I been marry Cato Gause en he tell
me dey been live swell to Miss Susan's plantation. Dat whe' he been born en raise up. Hear
Pa Cudjo talk bout dat Miss Harriet Woodberry whip my mother one day en she run away en went
down in Woodberry en stayed a long time. Say, some of de Woodberry niggers stayed down dere
till after freedom come here. Yes, mam, white folks would whip dey colored people right dere,
if dey didn' do what dey tell dem to do. Oh, dey was awful in dat day en time. Colored people
had to live under a whip massa en couldn' do nothin, but what he say do. Yes, mam, dey had
dese head men, what dey call overseers, on all de plantations dat been set out to whip de niggers.
I tell you, it was rough en tough in dem days. Dey would beat you bout to death. My grandfather
en my grandmother, dey die wid scars on dem dat de white folks put dere."

"Oh, my Lord, dey would give de colored people dey allowance to last dem a week to a time,
but dey never didn' give dem nothin widout dey work to get it en dat been dey portion. I remember,
I hear Cato tell bout Mr. Bobbie say, "Mom Dicey, dey tell me dey catch Bacchus stealin Pa's
watermelons out de field de other night." (Bacchus was Mom Dicey's son). Grandmother Dicey
say, "Oh, he never take nothin but dem little rotten end ones." Den Mr. Bobbie say, "Well,
dey tell me, dey catch Bacchus stealin de horse's corn out de feed trough de other night."
En grandmother Dicey say, "Well, if he did, he never take nothin, but what been belong to him."
Dat it, some white folks was better to dey colored people den others would be. Would give dem
so much of meal en meat en molasses to last dem a week en dey would feed all de nigger chillun
to de big house 'tween meals. Have cook woman to give dem all de milk en clabber dey wanted
dere to de white people yard."

"De overseer, he would give you a task to do en you had to do it, too, if you never been want
your neck broke. Yes, mam, de overseer would stock you down en whip you wid a buggy whip. Some
of de time, when de colored people wouldn' do what dey been put to do, dey would hide in de
woods en stay dere till de overseer come after dem. Oh, dey would find dem wid de nigger dog.
When de overseer would find out dey had run away, he would send de nigger dog to hunt dem.
My God, child, dem dogs would sho find you. Some of de time, dey would run you up a tree en
another time, dey would catch you whe' dere won' no tree to go up en grab you en gnaw you up.
Yes, mam, de overseer would hear you hollerin or else he would hear de dog barkin at you up
de tree. Dem nigger dogs, I know you is see dem kind of dogs. Dey is high, funny lookin dogs.
Don' look like no other kind of dog. When dey would find de one dey was huntin, dey would just
stand right dere en look up in de tree en howl."

"De colored people never had no church dey own in slavery time cause dey went to de white people
church. Yes, mam, I been dere to de Old Neck Church many a day. In dat day en time, when de
preacher would stand up to preach, he would talk to de white folks en de colored people right
dere together. But when de colored people would get converted in dem days, dey never been allowed
to praise de Lord wid dey mouth. Had to pray in dey sleeve in dem days. De old man Pa Cudjo,
he got right one day to de big house en he had to pray wid he head in de pot."

"No, mam, de colored people never didn' have no liberty no time in dem days. Cose dey had dey
little crop of corn en 'tatoe en thing like dat bout dey house, what dey would work at night,
but dat won' nothin to speak bout. Oh, dey would put fire in a fry pan en fetch it up on a
stump to see to work by."

"No, child, white people never teach colored people nothin, but to be good to dey Massa en
Mittie. What learnin dey would get in dem days, dey been get it at night. Taught demselves."

"Now, Pa Cudjo, if he been here, my Lord, I couldn' never say what he might could tell you.
Like I say, he been a cussin man en he die wid a bright mind. Cose I never come here what dey
call a slavery child, but I been hear slavery people speak dey mind plenty times."

  =Source:= Louisa Gause, colored, age 70-75; Brittons Neck, S.C.
          Personal interview by Annie Ruth Davis.

  Project #1665
  W.W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S.C.

  GRACIE GIBSON

  EX-SLAVE 86 YEARS OLD.

"I was born at Palatka, Florida. I was a slave of Captain John Kinsler. Wish all white men
was just like him, and all white women like Miss Maggie Dickerson, de lady that looks after me now.

"Captain John wouldn't sell his niggers and part de members of de family. He fetched us all,
Daddy George, Mammy Martha, Gran'dad Jesse, Gran'mammy Nancy, and my two brothers, Flanders
and Henry, from Florida to Richland County, South Carolina, along wid de rest.

"My mistress was named Mary. Marster John had a daughter named Adelaide, but they call her
Ada. I was called up on one of her birthdays, and Marster Bob sorta looked out of de corner
of his eyes, first at me and then at Miss Ada, then he make a little speech. He took my hand,
put it in Miss Ada's hand, and Say: 'Dis your birthday present, darlin'.' I make a curtsy and
Miss Ada's eyes twinkle like a star and she take me in her room and took on powerful over me.

"We lived in a two-room log house daubed wid mud and it had a wood and mud chimney to de gable
end of one room. De floor was hewed logs laid side by side close together. Us had all we needed
to eat.

"De soap was made in a hopper for de slaves. How dat you ask? A barrel was histed on a stand
'bove de ground a piece; wheat straw was then put into de barrel, hickory ashes was then emptied
in, then water, and then it set 'bout ten days or more. Then old fats and old grease, meat
skins, and rancid grease, was put in. After a while de lye was drained out, put in a pot, and
boiled wid grease. Dis was lye-soap, good to wash wid.

"Slaves had own garden. Some of de old women, and women bearin' chillun not yet born, did cardin'
wid hand-cards; then some would get at de spinnin' wheel and spin thread, three cuts make a
hank. Other women weave cloth and every woman had to learn to make clothes for the family,
and they had to knit coarse socks and stockin's. Mighty nigh all de chillun had a little teency
bag of asafetida, on a string 'round they necks, to keep off diseases.

"Us slaves had 'stitions and grieve if a black cat run befo' us, or see de new moon thru de
tree tops, and when we start somewhere and turn back, us sho' made a cross-mark and spit in
it befo' we commence walkin' again.

"I 'member Wheeler's men come to our house first, befo' de Yankees. They took things just like
de Yankees did dat come later. Marster John was a Captain, off fightin' for Confeds but dat
didn't stop Wheeler's men from takin' things they wanted, no sir! They took what they wanted.
Wasn't long after then dat the Yankees come and took all they could and burnt what they couldn't
carry off wid them.

"After de war I marry Abe Smith and had two chillun by him, Clifton and Hattie. De boy died
and Hattie marry a man named Lee. She now lives at White Oak.

"My husband die, I marry Sam Gibson, and had a nice trousseau dat time. Blue over-skirt over
tunic, petticoats wid tattin' at de borders, red stockin's and gaiter shoes. I had a bustle
and a wire hoop and wore a veil over my hair."

  Project 1885-1
  FOLKLORE
  Spartanburg Dist. 4
  May 31, 1937

  Edited by:
  Elmer Turnage

  STORIES FROM EX-SLAVES

"I was Capt. Jack's body-guard in during de whole entire war. I means Capt. Jack Giles, his
own self. And I is pushing close to a hundred. Dey used to make likker in de holler down on
Dr. Bates' place deep in de forest. De soldiers would drink by de barrels. Mr. Will Bates,
Dr. Bates' son, helped me out of skimage one time.

"Don't never go in no war, 'less you is gwine to give orders like my marse Jack. Dat is, onless
you is gwine to act as body-guard. Time of de war, old man Sammy Harmon had a state still.
He never sold no likker to no private. De bluecoats, dey blockade Charleston and Savannah.
Miss Janie couldn't get no spices fer her cakes, neither could she get no linen and other fine
cloth fer her 'dornment. Couldn't nothing get by dat blockade. So Mr. Sammy, he make de likker
by de barrels. Dem dat had wagins come and fotch it off, as many barrels as de mules could
draw, fer de soldiers. I drunk much as I wanted. De drum taps say, 'tram lam-lam, following
on de air. De sperrits lift me into a dance, like dis, (he danced some) 'cept I was light on
my foots den--atter I had done drunk, anyhow.

"De sharp-shooters got atter me one day. Mr. Dewey, one of de rangers, sent fer de cannon balls.
Dese run de bluecoats.

"I went to Petersburg wid Capt. Douglas, dat Miss Janie's second husband. Our train went dat
fast, dat it took my breaf away. But de cars goes much faster, gwine to Patter-a-rac now.

"All de picket-men had dogs. Lots of de soldiers had niggers wid dem. At night in de camp when
de Yankees would come spying around, de dogs would bark. De niggers would holler. One Confederate
officer had a speckledy dog that could smell dem Yankees far off. When de Yankees got dare,
everything was ready. When us want information fer direction and time, all us had to do was
to look up through de pines fer it.

"One song I remembers is, 'would like to catch-a feller looking like me'. Another was, 'I feel
as happy as a big sun-flower.' (Charlie can sing them both, and dance accompaniment.)

"At Petersburg, April 1863, de Yankees act like dey was gwine to blow everything up. I crawl
along de ground wid my Marster, and try to keep him kivered as best as I could. Us reached
Chica-hominy River and go over to Petersburg. Den dey blow up Richmond. De river turn to blood
while I was looking at it. De cannons deafened me and I has been hard of hearing ever since.
Some de blue tails clumb de trees when us got atter dem.

"Next time I'se gwine to tell you about deserters and refugees. Ain't nobody got no business
in automobiles 'cept lawyers, doctors, and fools."

  =Source:= Charlie Giles, Rt. He is knock-kneed and
walks slowly. His long thin hands clutch his chair strongly for support
as he continually shifts his position. When he brings his hands to the
back of his head, as he frequently does, in conversation, they tremble
as with palsy. He enjoys talking of the old times as do many of his
contemporaries.

"Yes, Maam," he starts off. "I been heah when de war was on. I seen when de drove of people
come up. Dey was dress in blue clothes. Call dem Yankees. Had de Scouts, too. But dey was de
Southerners. I knowed all dem! I wasn't nuthin' but a little boy but I kin remember it.

"Mr. Jesse Smith wife been my young Missus. Dey lived at Furman. My mother mind Mr. Trowell's
father. His name was Mr. Ben Trowell. I call him, Bub Ben. Bub was for brother. Dat de way
we call folks den--didn't call 'em by dere names straight out. Mr. Trowell's mother we call,
Muss, for Miss. Sort of a nickname. We call Mr. Harry Fitts grandmother, Muss, too.

"My daddy was name Aleck Trowell. After freedom he was call by his own name, Aleck Gillison.
After freedom some was call by dere own name--some were, and some weren't. My father was sold
from a Gillison, first off.

"How old I is? Well, Missus, I been put on de road to 75 years, but I'm more than dat. I'm
between seventy and eighty years old.

"I knows Mr. Tom Lawton. Dey was rich people. My old Massa and him been boys together. Dey
was a place call de Trowell Mill Pond right at de Lawton place. Mr. Lawton was sure rich, 'cause
we all had a plenty--plenty to eat, and sech likes--Mr. Lawton was rich! When Mr. Trowell got
up a little higher than what he was, he trade his Lena place for a place at Stafford. De Stafford
place was some better.

"Yes Maam, de records was burn. Dey had a courthouse at Gillisonville in dem times. Dat fact
'bout it Miss. Now I don't want you to say a nigger 'spute your word, or nuthin' like that,
(this, in response to the visitor having remarked that the records were burned at Beaufort)
but I don't think that Beaufort was built up till after the war. Gillisonville was right muchly
built up. I don't think de records was burn at Beaufort. I think it was at de courthouse at
Gillisonville dey was burn up. Now de district was call Beaufort District, but de courthouse
was at Gillisonville. Gillisonville was where dey had de trial of de Mr. Martin dat kill Mr.
Peeples. De Morrisons lived at Gillisonville. Plenty of 'em!

"I kin tell you where two of de old Robert homes used to be. One was back dis way toward Scotia
from Robertville. Dat was de Mr. John H. Robert' place. Had a whole string of cedar trees going
up to his place. Now den, 'bout two miles out from Robertville going from de white folk' church
out toward Black Swamp was another Robert place. Dat where old Major Robert lived. He had a
whole tun (turn) of slaves. Dere was no Robert live right in de village of Robertville. De
Lawtons was de only people live right in Robertville--and one family of Jaudons. I don't know
of no other Robert home.

"Dat's all I kin tell you 'bout de old times, Missus. I don't want to tell you what ain't true."
Dey would watch you just like a chicken rooster watching fer a worm. At night, we was skeered
to have a light. Dey would come around wid de 'dough faces' on and peer in de winders and open
de do'. Iffen you didn't look out, dey would skeer you half to death. John Good, a darkey blacksmith,
used to shoe de horses fer de Ku Klux. He would mark de horse shoes with a bent nail or something
like that; then atter a raid, he could go out in the road and see if a certain horse had been
rode; so he began to tell on de Ku Klux. As soon as de Ku Klux found out dey was being give
away, dey suspicioned John. Dey went to him and made him tell how he knew who dey was. Dey
kept him in hiding, and when he told his tricks, dey killed him.

"When I was a boy on de 'Gilmore place', de Ku Klux would come along at night a riding de niggers
like dey was goats. Yes sir, dey had 'em down on all-fours a crawling, and dey would be on
dere backs. Dey would carry de niggers to Turk Creek bridge and make dem set up on de bannisters
of de bridge; den dey would shoot 'em offen de bannisters into de water. I 'clare dem was de
awfulest days I ever is seed. A darky name Sam Scaife drifted a hundred yards in de water down
stream. His folks took and got him outen dat bloody water and buried him on de bank of de creek.
De Ku Klux would not let dem take him to no graveyard. Fact is, dey would not let many of de
niggers take de dead bodies of de folks no whars. Dey just throwed dem in a big hole right
dar and pulled some dirt over dem. Fer weeks atter dat, you could not go near dat place, kaise
it stink so fer and bad. Sam's folks, dey throwed a lot of 'Indian-head' rocks all over his
grave, kaise it was so shallah, and dem rocks kept de wild animals from a bothering Sam. You
can still see dem rocks, I could carry you dere right now.

"Another darky, Eli McCollum, floated about three and a half miles down de creek. His folks
went dere and took him out and buried him on de banks of de stream right by de side of a Indian
mound. You can see dat Indian mound to dis very day. It is big as my house is, over dere on
de Chester side.

"De Ku Klux and de niggers fit at New Hope Church. A big rock marks de spot today. De church,
it done burnt down. De big rock sets about seven miles east of Lockhart on de road to Chester.
De darkies killed some of de Ku Klux and dey took dere dead and put dem in Pilgrims Church.
Den dey sot fire to dat church and it burnt everything up to de very bones of de white folks.
And ever since den, dat spot has been known as 'Burnt Pilgrim'. De darkies left most of de
folks right dar fer de buzzards and other wild things to eat up. Kaise dem niggers had to git
away from dar; and dey didn't have no time fer to fetch no word or nothing to no folks at home.
Dey had a hiding place not fer from 'Burnt Pilgrim'. A darky name Austin Sanders, he was carring
some victuals to his son. De Ku Klux cotch him and dey axed him whar he was a gwine. He lowed
dat he was a setting some bait fer coons. De Ku Klux took and shot him and left him lying right
in de middle of de road wid a biscuit in his dead mouth.

"Doctor McCollum was one of dem Ku Klux, and de Yankees sot out fer to ketch him. Doc., he
rid a white pony called 'Fannie'. All de darkies, dey love Doc, so dey would help him fer to
git away from de Yankees, even though he was a Ku Klux. It's one road what forks, atter you
crosses Wood's Ferry. Don't nobody go over dat old road now. One fork go to Leeds and one to
Chester. Well, right in dis fork, Mr. Buck Worthy had done built him a grave in de 'Woods Ferry
Graveyard'. Mr. Worthy had done built his grave hisself. It was built out of marble and it
was kivered up wid a marble slab. Mr. Worthy, he would take and go dar and open it up and git
in it on pretty days. So old Doc., he knowed about dat grave. He was going to see a sick lady
one night when dey got atter him. He was on old Fannie. Dey was about to ketch de old Doc.
when he reached in sight of dat graveyard. It was dark. So Doc., he drive de horse on pass
de fork, and den he stop and hitch her in front of some dense pines. Den he took and went to
dat grave and slip dat top slab back and got in dar and pulled it over him, just leaving a
little crack. Doc. lowed he wrapped up hisself in his horse blanket, and when de Yankees left,
he went to sleep in dat grave and never even woke up till de sun, it was a shinning in his face.

"Soon atter dat, my sister took down sick wid de misery. Doc., he come to see her at night.
He would hide in de woods in daytime. We would fetch him his victuals. My sister was sick three
weeks 'fore she died. Doc, he would take some blankets and go and sleep in dat grave, kaise
he know'd dey would look in our house fer him. Dey kept on a coming to our house. Course we
never know'd nothing 'bout no doctor at all. Dar was a nigger wid wooden bottom shoes, dat
stuck to dem Yankees and other po' white trash 'round dar. He lowed wid his big mough dat he
gwine to find de doctor. He told it dat he had seed Fannie in de graveyard at night. Us heard
it and told de doctor. Us did not want him to go near dat graveyard any more. But Doc, he just
laugh and he lowed dat no nigger was a gwine to look in no grave, kaise he had tried to git
me to go over dar wid him at night and I was skeer'd.

"One night, just as Doc was a covering up, he heard dem wooden shoes a coming; so he sot up
in de grave and took his white shirt and put it over his head. He seed three shadows a coming.
Just as dey got near de doc, de moon come out from 'hind a cloud and Doc, he wave dat white
shirt and he say dem niggers just fell over grave-stones a gitting outen dat graveyard. Doc
lowed dat he heard dem wooden shoes a gwine up de road fer three miles. Well, dey never did
bother the doctor any more.

"Doc, he liked to fiddle. Old Fannie, she would git up on her hind legs when de doc would play
his fiddle."

  =Source:= Brawley Gilmore (col), 34 Hamlet St., Union, S.C.
          Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S.C. (12/3/36)

  Project 1885-1
  Ex-slave--(Pick Gladdeny, Pomaria, Rt. 3, S.C.
  Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S.C.
  EARLY RECOLLECTIONS.
  Typist: Louise Dawkins, Rt. 4, Union, S.C.

"Ah sees all through 'im now. Naw, sir, Ah doesn't know whar Ah wuz bawn, maybe in Fairfield,
maybe in the Dutch Fork, Ah doesn't know, Ah won't dar. It wuz on May 15, 1856. Ah 'spec Ah
could've been born on Mr. Joe Hellar's place, you knows dat down on Hellar Creek.

"Ah'se old enough to go to de speechin' dat Dan White made on "Maybinton Day" (emancipation
speech at Maybinton, S.C.). You axes me more than I can answer, Site of folks dar all day,
settin' aroun. Us clam trees, so us could see and hear. I sho did listen but I don't 'member
nothin' what de man say. I knows dis dat I still hears dat band music ringing in my ears. At
dat time I was so young dat all I cared about on dat day, was the brass band what let out so
much music. Niggers being free never meant nothing to us chaps, cause we never had no mind
fer all such as that nohow. Dat de first band dat I ever seed, and to tell you de truf I never
seed no more till the World War fotch de soldiers all through here. Bands charms me so much
dat dey just plumb tickles the tips of my toes on both feets.

"Squire William Hardy was de man dat I worked for when I had done turned five. Dey teach me
to bring in chips, kindling wood, fire wood and water. I learnt to make Marse's fire ever morning.
Dat won't no trouble, cause all I had to do was rake back de ashes from the coals and throw
on some chips and lightwood and de fire come right up. Won't long 'fore I was big enough to
draw water and bring in big wood. You knows what big fire places they got down dar cause Squire
Hardy--Mr. Dick's Pa, and Pa and Heyward and Frank's grandpa.

"Squire Hardy was a good man so was Mr. Dick. Mr. Dick was dat smart till he just naturally
never forgot nothing that was told to him. If he was a-living, he could tell you way back before
de Squire's time. I was right dar at Squire Hardy's dat day Freedom come and de band come to
Maybinton.

"Going farther back than this, droves of niggers used to come down the road by Squire Hardy's
front gate. Yes, sir, a overseer used to come through here driving niggers; just like us drives
cows and hogs up around this big road these days and times. One day Squire Hardy went out and
stopped a drove coming down de road in the dust. He pick him out a good natured looking darky
and give the overseer one eye contrary niggers, what nobody didn't like for the good-natured
ones. Ain't got no more to say. I does not remember but I has heared about the time when my
ma moved from Hellar's Plantation in the Dutch Fork to the Tom Lyles quarter in Fairfield.
My ma's name Sally Murphy. Her master was Dave Murphy. He stayed at Tom Lyles. Mistus Betsy
(Dave Murphy) cared for her. Mr. Dave Murphy overseed for Capt. Tom Lyles who lived about two
miles from Lyles' Ford on Broad River.

"I don't know what things has gone to. So much diffence in everthing now than it was back in
dem days. Don't know nothing about no Booker T. Washington. I sees much but hears little 'bout
dat what I doesn't see, Yes, siree boy, all such little 'muck' go in one ear and come out tother'n
wid me. Dat's de talk fer dese young niggers dats eddicated, and I ain't dat bad off.

"Winnsboro fust town I ever seed, but it don't favor itself now.

"Maybinton the place I love best in all the world. Most my life is right here. I'll be buried
in Hardy graveyard, whar my white folks dat was so good to me lie sleeping, and dat's whar
my ma and pa and others that I loves lies too.

"Post office at Maybinton is whar Miss Bessie Oxner stay. Bill Oxner, her pa kept de post office
from de time it started till they stopped it, fur as I knows. It look better then than it does
now. Mr. Bill Oxner pretty good man.

"He was a settled man. His wife was a good-looking lady who before her marriage was a Bethune.

"Dar was a big store at the end of Mr. W. B. Whitney's plantation. Dis along to'd first of
Freedom. Mr. Slattery lived twixt the Maybins and the Whitney's house. The store upon the end
was kept by Mr. Pettus Chick and Mr. Bill Oxner. It was a good store. Didn't have to go to
Newber'y to git no candy and 'Bacco. And Dr. Jim Ruff was de doctor what tended to folks in
dem parts when dey got sick.

"De old Buck when I first knowed it was run fer a dwelling house by Mr. Jeff Stewart. I been
knowed Maybinton all my life. But when I come along stages had done gone out but that's where
dey stopped when they come from Spring Hill. I'se heared dat de Buck had large stables and
a lots of folks stop there and rested overnight on their way to the Springs. (Glenn's, Chick's,
and West Springs.)

"Used to rather dance than to eat. Started out at sundown and git back to the Whitney's at
daybreak, den from dar run all de way to Squire Hardy's to git dar by sunup. Pats our feets
and knocks tin pans was the music dat us niggers danced to all night long. Put on my clean
clothes dat was made right on the plantation and wear them to the dance. Gals wore their homespun
stockings. Wore the dresses so long dat they kivered their shoes. My britches were copperus
colored and I had on a home wove shirt with a pleated bosom. It was dyed red and had wristbands.
I wore that shirt for five years.

"Didn't have no nigger churches down dar den. We went to Chapman's stand. It had a brush top
and log seats. The darkies from the Hardy Plantation walked five miles to hear a nigger from
Union preach. He driv a one horse waggin and course he stayed around from place to place and
the folks take care of him and his mule. Big Jim Henderson owned Chapman's stand which was
in the Glymp quarter. The Glymp quarter still got the best land in our settlement yet. All
my 'quaintances done left me, fac' is, most of them done crossed over de river. Folks meets
me and speaks familiar. I axes, "Who is that?" I used to deal with Mr. Bee Thompson in Union.

"I'se got some business to tend to in Union soon and I spec I be up there in short to see is
it anything familiar dar."

  Project #1655
  W.W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S.C.

  HENRY GLADNEY
  EX-SLAVE 82 YEARS OLD.

Henry Gladney lives with his wife, his son, Murdock, his daughter-in-law, Rose, and seven grandchildren.
They live near White Oak, S.C., in a two-room frame house with a one-room box board annex.
He works a one-horse farm for Mr. Cathcart and piddles a little at the planing mills at Adgers.
His son does the ploughing. The daughter-in-law and grandchildren hoe and pick cotton and assist
in the farm work. Henry is of medium height, dark brown complexion, and is healthy but not
vigorous.

"I lives out on de John H. Cathcart place, close to White Oak. In slavery time my mammy b'long
to old Marse Johnnie Mobley, and us lived in de quarter 'bout three miles to de west of Woodward
station, tho' dere was no station dere when I was a boy. De station was down de railroad from
dere and then it was called Yonguesville. My mammy name Lucy, my pappy name William, my sisters
was Louise, Elsie, and Adeline. My brudders name Tim and Curtis.

"I wasn't a very big boy in slavery time, tho' I 'member choppin' cotton, and pickin' cotton
and peas 'long 'side mammy in de field. Pappy was called 'Bill de Giant', 'cause him was so
big and strong. They have mighty bad plantation roads in them days. I see my pappy git under
de wagon once when it was bogged up to de hub and lift and heft dat wagon and set it outside
de ruts it was bogged down in. Him stayed at de blacksmith shop, work on de wagons, shoe de
mules and hosses, make hinges, sharpen de plow points and fix de iron rings in de wagon wheels.

"My pappy didn't 'low other slave men to look at my mammy. I see him grab Uncle Phil once,
throw him down on de floor, and when him quit stompin' Uncle Phil, they have to send for Dr.
Newton, 'cause pappy done broke Uncle Phil's right leg. My old marster no lak dat way one of
his slaves was crippled up. Him 'low to whip pappy for it. Pappy tell mammy to go tell Marse
John if he whip him, he would run off and go to de North. She beg for pappy so, dat nothin'
was done 'bout it. 'Spect Marse John fear to lose a good blacksmith wid two good legs, just
'bout a small nigger man wid one good leg and one bad leg.

"It come to de time old marster have so many slaves he don't know what to do wid them all.
He give some of them off to his chillun. He give them mostly to his daughters, Miss Marion,
Miss Nancy, and Miss Lucretia. I was give to his grandson, Marse John Mobley McCrorey, just
to wait on him and play wid him. Little Marse John treat me good sometime and kick me 'round
sometime. I see now dat I was just a little dog or monkey, in his heart and mind, dat 'mused
him to pet or kick as it pleased him. Him give me de only money I ever have befo' freedom,
a big copper two-cent piece wid a hole in it. I run a string thru dat hole and tied it 'round
my neck and felt rich all de time. Little niggers always wanted to see dat money and I was
proud to show it to them every time.

"Little Marse John's mother was another daughter of old Marster John. Her name was Dorcas.
They live in Florida. I was took 'way down dere, cried pow'ful to leave my mammy, but I soon
got happy down dere playin' in de sand wid Marse John and his little brudder, Charlie. Don't
'member nothin' 'bout de war or de Yankees. Freedom come, I come back to de Mobley quarters
to mammy. I work for old Marster John up 'til after Hampton was 'lected. I marry Florie Williams,
a pretty black gal on de Mobley quarters. Us is had seventeen chillun. So far as I know they
is all livin'. Some in Florida, some in Sparrows Point, Virginia, some in Charlotte, N.C.,
and some in Columbia, S.C. Murdock and his wife, Katie, and deir six chillun live in de same
house wid me.

"My old marster have two daughters dat marry McCroreys. Miss Lucretia marry James McCrorey
and Miss Dorcas marry John McCrorey. Miss Lucretia have a son name John. Miss Dorcas have a
son name John. In talkin' wid old mistress, 'fusion would come 'bout which John of de grandsons
was bein' meant and talked 'bout. Old Marster John settle dat.

"Old Marster John and old mistress (her name Katie) had de same birthday, March de 27th, tho'
old Marster John was two years older than old Mistress Kate. They celebrate dat day every year.
All de chillun-in-laws and grandchillun come to de mansion, have a big dinner and a big time.
After dinner one day, all de men folks 'semble at de woodpile. De sun was shinin' and old marster
have me bring out a chair for him but de balance of them set on de logs or lay 'round on de
chips. Then they begun to swap tales. Marse Ed P. Mobley hold up his hand and say: 'See dis
stiff finger? It'll never be straight agin. I got out of ammunition at de secon' battle of
Bull Run, was runnin' after a Yankee to ketch him, threw my gun 'way to run faster, ketch him
as he was 'bout to git over a fence and choked his stiff neck so hard in de scuffle dat I broke
dat finger. General Lee hearin' 'bout it, changed me from de infancy (infantry) to de calvary
(cavalry) dat I might not run de danger any more.' Old marster laugh and say: 'Jim, can you
beat dat?' Marse Jim Mobley say: 'Well, you all know what I done at Gettysburg? If all had
done lak me dat day, us would have won de war. Whenever I see a bullet comin' my way, I took
good aim at de bullet wid a double charge of powder in my musket. My aim was so good dat it
drove de enemy ball back to kill a Yankee and glanced aside at de right time to kill another
Yankee. I shot a thousand times de fust day of de battle and two thousand times de secon' day
and kilt six thousand Yankees at Gettysburg!' Old marster slap his sides and fell out de chair
a laughin'! When him git back in de chair, him say: 'Zebulon, what you got to say?' Marse Zeb,
p'intin' to his empty pants leg, say: 'Me and some officers 'tended a chicken fight on de banks
of de Chickenhominy River de day befo' de battle of Shilo. De cocks fight wid gaves on deir
heels. Dere was five hundred fights and two hundred and fifty roosters was kilt. Us have big
pots of chicken and big pots of hominy on de banks of de Chickenhominy Creek dat night and
then de battle of Cold Harbor come de nex' day. I had eat so much chicken and hominy my belly
couldn't hold it all. Some had run down my right leg. Us double quicked and run so fast thru
swamps nex' day, after Yankees, my right leg couldn't keep up wid my left leg. After de battle
I went back to look for dat leg but never could find it. Governor Zeb Vance tell me afterwards,
dat leg of mine run on to Washington, went up de White House steps, and slushed some of dat
chicken and hominy on de carpet right befo' President Lincoln's chair.'

"Everybody laugh so loud dat old mistress come out and want to know what for they was laughin'
'bout. All dat had to be gone over agin. Then her laugh and laugh and laugh. She turnt 'round
to my young Marster John and say: 'John, can you beat dat?' He say: 'Henry, go git grandma
a chair.' I done dat. Then my young marster start. Him say: 'One day down in Florida, I saddle
my pony, took Henry dere up behind me and went a fishin' on de St. John River. I had some trouble
a gittin' thru de everglades when I want to fish but us got dere. Big trees on de banks and
'round, wid long moss hangin' from de limbs. I baited my hook wid a small, wigglin', live,
minnow and throwed out into de water. Nothin' happen. In de warm sunshine I must have gone
to sleep, when I was startle out my doze by Henry a shoutin': 'Marse Johnnie, Marse Johnnie,
your cork done gone down out of sight!' I made a pull but felt at once it would take both hands
to land dat fish. I took both hands, put my foot 'ginst de roots of a great live oak and h'isted
dat fish in de sky. It was so big it shut out de light of de sun. When it come down, dat fish
strip off de limbs of de trees it hit while comin' to de ground. I sent Henry back to de house
on de pony, for de four-hoss wagon and all de men on de place, to git de fish home. When us
got it home and cut it open, dere was 119 fishes varyin' from de size of de minnow up to de
big fish. Marse Ed P. say: 'Was de little minnow dead or 'live when you found him in de belly
of de 119th fish? 'He was still wigglin', say my young marster. Old marster say: 'It was a
whale of a fish, wasn't it, grandson?' Young marster say: 'It was, grandpa. De river bank show
dat de water went down two inches after I pulled him out.' 'Maybe it was a whale', said Marse
Ed P. 'In fact, it was', said Marse Johnnie,' 'cause on one of de ribs under de belly was some
tatooin'.' 'What was de tatooin'?' ask old mistress, just as innocent as a baby. 'De word Nenivah',
say Marse little John. 'Why it might have been de whale dat swallowed Jonah', say Miss Katie.
'It was', say my young marster, 'for just under Nenivah was de name Jonah.' After a good laugh
old marster say: 'Your name is changed from John Mobley McCrorey to John Munchawsome McCrorey.'
Kin folks call him Barron after dat. Him lak dat but when they got to callin' him, lyin' John
McCrorey him git red in de face and want to fight.

"Poor Marse Johnnie! Wonder if him still livin'. Him marry a rich woman in Florida but her
soon 'vorce him. What her 'vorce him for? 'Pattybility and temper, they say. What I means by
pattybility? I 'spect dat mean de time they was gittin' up in de mornin' and her lam him 'cross
de head wid de hairbrush and him take dat same hairbrush, push her down 'cross de bed and give
her a good spankin'. Now you're laughin' agin but it was no laughin' wid her dat mornin', de
way I hear them tell it." Near Indian Creek above Jalapa. My mammy and pa was Charlie and Frances
Gilliam. We belonged to Marse Pettus and Harriet Gilliam who had a big plantation. I married
George Glasgow in the yard of Reid place, by a nigger preacher. My husband died about 15 years ago.

"I was a young child when de war stopped, and don't remember so much about slavery times. Marse
Pettus and Miss Harriet was good to us. I never got a whipping, except Misses whipped me once
wid just one lick. Dey give us a small patch of 'bout half acre fer us to raise cotton or anything
we wanted to on it. De master had a big garden and give his slaves plenty vegetables. We had
plenty to eat all de time. My pa, Charlie, was de foreman of a crowd of slaves, and dere was
a white overseer, too.

"Master Gilliam had a boy dey called 'Bud'. He still lives in Arkansas. Dey all moved to state
of Arkansas sometime atter de war. My master was a good man, a church man, and he was steward
in Tranquil Methodist Church. Around de place at home he was always singing and in good humor.
I 'member one song he sung dat was like dis:

  "Lord, Lord, Heaven--Sweet Heaven,
  Lord, Lord, Heaven--Sweet Heaven,
  How long will it be?
    (repeated three times)

"De first time I come to town was when I was a little child, and when we got to College Hill,
about ten miles from home, I started to run back home because I heard de train whistle blow.

"Miss Harriet always give us chilluns 'mackaroot tea' fer worms. It's made from roots of a
plant dat grow in de woods. We had to drink it before breakfast, and it shore had a bitter taste.

"Slavery wasn't good much, I reckon, but I had a good time ... didn't nothing bother me. When
freedom come, all of us stayed with de master until he and his folks moved away.

"Old Dr. Clark was de best doctor in de state. He lived at Jalapa. He used to give barbecues
at his home in de yard under big trees. He had niggers dere, too. Dey eat by demselves. Old
Mrs. Sligh lived above dere. I waited on her when she was sick. When she died, she made her
son promise not to hold against me what I owed her--just let it go--and told him not to ever
let me go hungry.

"Once when Master Gilliam took one of his slaves to church at old Tranquil, he told him dat
he mustn't shout dat day--said he would give him a pair of new boots if he didn't shout. About
de middle of services, de old nigger couldn't stand it no longer. He jumped up and hollered:
'Boots or no boots, I gwine to shout today'.

"I jined de church atter I got married, 'cause I wanted to do right and serve de Lord." I have
a fairly good house to live in. I work on the farm, myself, and make a pretty good living from
it. I live with my second wife. I had two children but they both died.

"I was born on Dr. Geo. W. Glenn's plantation, about six miles north of Newberry. My parents,
Berry and Frances Glenn, were slaves of Dr. Glenn. I was seven years old when freedom come.

"Dr. Glenn gave us good quarters to live in and plenty to eat. He was a good man and was not
hard on slaves; but the mistress was mean to some of the slaves that come from the Glenn side.
She was good to the slaves that come into her from her daddy.

"I didn't work much around the place when I was small, just did little things to help. The
master had a big garden and raised lots of green vegetables like turnips, collards, cabbages
and some okra, but little beans except cornfield beans. We had plenty clothes.

"The master whipped us sometimes when we needed it. They would not learn us to read and write.
Some of the slaves went to the white folks' church.

"I was married the first time on the Glasgow place by a colored preacher named Boyd. Her daddy
didn't want us to marry; he didn't like me. I slipped to the field where she was working and
stole her; went to the preacher and got married. I married the second time in town on College Hill.

"A band of Confederate soldiers in 1865 went past the master's house on their way from war,
and Mistress had dinner for them. They eat out under big shade trees in the yard where Master
always kept a long table for dinners they had sometimes. When freedom come, the master called
all his slaves up to the house one night and spoke to them. He said they was free, but any
who wanted to stay on with him and help make the crop that year could stay and he would pay
wages. All stayed that year.

"The Ku Klux and Red Shirts didn't like Negroes. They would catch them and whip them.

"It was a long time after the war before the negroes had a school. They went to white folks
churchs for a long time. Some of them had 'brush harbors' for their churches, and schools, too.

"I don't know nothing about Abraham Lincoln and Jefferson Davis. I can't give much about Booker
Washington, except I heard of him and believe he is a good man and doing a good turn for the
negroes.

"I think slavery was wrong; don't think one man ought to own another man.

"I joined the church when I was about 25 or 30 years old." My white folks live in big two story
house dere cause my Massa was a bankholder in Charleston en dat de reason he go back en forth
to Charleston every week or two. My Massa a good man, a good man, en I hope he restin in Heaven
dis day."

"De Carsons had bout 2,000 acres of land en 100 head of slaves on dey plantation. Have long
row of house up in de quarter whe' all de slaves live. We have a very good livin in dat day
en time. Had more to eat den we do dese days cause rations won' scarce like dey is now. Eat
potatoes en peas en corn bread en homemade grits mostly, but I likes everything to eat, Captain.
Den dey give us a garden to make us greens en things like dat en we is catch possum heap of
de time. Uncle Ben (father's father) was a great possum hunter, but he died fore I get big
enough to go huntin wid him. He went possum huntin every night till something went up de tree
one night en possum talk to him. He used to go huntin on a Sunday night en dat how-come de
possum talk to him."

"You didn' see de peoples wear much different clothes like dey wear dese days, but what dey
have was very decent. Just have bout one piece, Captain, make out of some kind of homemade
cloth wid no extra for Sunday. Wear same kind of pants on Sunday dat wear every day en same
kind of shoes call brogans wid brass toes. I ain' see no fittin cloth since dey used to raise
sheep en have dey own wool en have loom en spin. Look like God smile on us in dat day en time."

"I work round de white folks house fore freedom come, but I go back to de quarter en sleep
when night come. Dem dat live in de quarter have lumber bed wid mattress made out of sacks
en hay. Den when dey ring dem bells en blow dem horns in de mornin, dat mean you better get
up en go bout your task for dat day."

"Oh, dey work us hard en late in dem times. Work from de sunrise in de mornin to de sundown
in de evenin. Dey have a driver dat tote whip en see dat you do what you know to do. Didn'
have no jail in dat day, but if you ain' do your task en dey catch you, dey punish you by de
whip. Some of de time, dey put em in de screw box what dey press bales of cotton wid. Put em
in dere en run press right down whe' can' crush en dey oouldn' move till dey take em out in
de mornin en whip em en put em to work. See plenty whipped on de place. Dey make one fellow
go over a barrel, en de other peoples hold he head down en de driver whip him. Give em 50 en
75 licks fore dey stop sometimes. Use chains to hold em when dey break ropes so dey couldn'
get away."

"I see em sell slaves heap of times. See em gwine along in droves en sayin dey was gwine to
market. Sell em if dey ain' stay on de place en work. Bid em off just like horse en mules.
What am I bid for dis one? Come en open you mouth en examine you teeth en dey wouldn' miss
you a year."

"Oh, Gracious God, didn' get married till after de shake was en I reckon I bout 30 years old
den. Captain, we thought it was de Jedgment (Judgment). It come like it was thunderin in de
earth, rollin in de earth en de earth was gwine en comin. We pray en all de cows en chickens
was yelling. Last dat night bout 30 minutes dat you could look at anything en it look like
top spinning. We was all good bout two years after dat."

"My white folks didn' teach none of dey slaves to read en write en didn' let em go bout from
one plantation to de other no time. All us know is when we go to dey meetin en dey pray wid
us. Peoples used to sing en pray in de quarter on Saturday night en when dey dig grave en have
a funeral. Dey didn' do bout buryings den like dey do now. Burying dem times en de funeral
would all be over at de burying. Slaves didn' have no way to go to de funeral but to walk.
Den a white man would stop you en if you have a ticket wid you dat have pass word on it, you
could go on."

"I can tell you all bout when dem Yankees come through dere. Some was on black horses, some
on red horses, en some on white horses. De one dat on black horse wear black, de one on white
horse wear white, en de one on de red horse wear red. De horses had sense enough to double
up when dat man hollo from de top of dem. Dey was wearing soldier clothes en dey come up to
you house en set place on fire, kill cow or anything dey want to. Dey burn up Carson house
en stay dere till next day. Dey talk to my mamma cause our house de next one to de white folks
house. De white folks done been gone. Dey ask her whe' dey hide dey money en she know dey hide
it to Stafford Hill, six miles from de house, but she didn' tell dem. Don' know yet what became
of de money, but dem Yankees loaded an old chest on de wagon en took all de slaves dat wanted
to run away wid dem en left dere."

"Slaves didn' know what to do de first year after freedom en den de Yankees tell de white folks
to give de slaves one-third of dey crops. What de slaves gwine buy land wid den, Captain? Won'
a God thing to eat in dat time. Had to plow corn wid ox cause de Yankees took all de horses
en mules dey wanted. My mother worked on three years dere for de white folks en dey give her
one bushel of corn en dey take two. One bushel of corn en dey take two. Measured by de same
basket."

"Well, I can' tell you bout people, but I can tell you bout my poor soul. I think I know I'm
bless to be here en raise three generation clear up dis world. All my chillun dead en gone
en God left me to live among dese wild varments here. I have to cry sometimes when I think
how dey die en leave me in dis troublesome world. During slavery time, didn' know what hard
times was. I know you see in de Bible dat God sorry he made man done so. I'm sorry dat de last
war done. Every time you fight war makes times harder. See three war en every one I see makes
time worse. Money gets balled up in one or two hand. Looks bad to me. Didn' know what it was
one time to be hungry." I sho been here in slavery time. Talk to dem soldiers when dey was
retreatin dey way back home. My old Missus was Miss Mary Godbold en den she marry a Haselden.
Dey buy my mamma from de old man Frank Miles right over yonder. Harry en Cindy Godbold was
my parents. We live in a one room house in de slave quarter dere on de white folks plantation.
My God, sleep right dere on de floor. Had gran'parents dat come here over de water from Africa.
Dey tell me dat whe' dey come from dey don' never let no man en he wife sleep together cause
dey is scared of em catchin disease from one another. Dat sho a good thing, you know dat. I
think dat sho a good thing."

"Dey ain' never give none of de colored peoples no money in dat day en time. Coase dey give
us plenty something to eat. Fed us out a big bowl of pot licker wid plenty corn bread en fried
meat en dat bout all we ever eat. Dey is let us have a garden of we own dat we had to work
by de night time. You see de colored folks know dey had to get up soon as dey hear dat cow
horn blow en dat been fore daylight come here. Oh, dey work from dark to dark in dat day en
time. Didn' but one day out all de year stand dat was a week day en dat was de big Christmus
day. Sweet molasses bread was de thing dat day. Coase dey give us a big supper when dey had
dem cornshucking day. Oh, dey had a frolic den dat last way up to de midnight."

"I never live dere to de Haselden plantation wid my parents long fore dey hire me out to Massa
John Mace en I stay dere till me en Maggie (his wife) come here to live. Nurse six head of
chillun for de white folks dere. I hear em say my Missus was a Watson fore she marry Massa
John Mace. Lord, Lord, love dem chillun to death. If Moses Mace been livin, you wouldn' be
talkin to no Hector Godbold bout here dese days. He de one what give me en Maggie dat four
room house you see settin dere. My Missus give me a good beatin one time when I did drop one
of dem baby. Just put me head under her foot en beat me dat way."

"Another thing I had to do was to carry de baby cross de swamp every four hour en let my mamma
come dere en suckle dat child. One day I go dere en another fellow come dere what dey call
John. He en my mamma get in a argument like en he let out en cut my mamma a big lick right
cross de leg en de blood just pour out dat thing like a done a what. My mamma took me en come
on to de house en when Miss Jane see dat leg, she say, "Cindy, what de matter?" My mamma say,
"John call me a liar en I never take it." Miss Jane tell em to send after Sam Watson right
den. Sam Watson was a rough old overseer en he been so bowlegged dat if he stand straddle a
barrel, he be settin down on it just as good as you settin dere. Sam Watson come dere en make
dat fellow lay down on a plank in de fence jam en he take dat cat o' nine tail he have tie
round his waist en strike John 75 times. De blood run down off him just like you see a stream
run in dat woods. Dat sho been so cause all we chillun stand bout dere en look on it. I suppose
I was bout big enough to plough den. When dey let John loose from dere, he go in de woods en
never come back no more till freedom come here. I tellin you when he come back, he come back
wid de Yankees."

"Oh, de colored peoples never know nothin more den dogs in dem times. Never couldn' go from
one plantation to de other widout dat dey had a ticket wid em. I see Sam Watson catch many
of dem dat had run way en buff en gag em. Never have no jails nowhe' in dat day en time. Dey
sho sell de colored peoples way plenty times cause I see dat done right here to Marion. Stand
em up on a block en sell em to a speculator dere. I hear em bid off a 'oman en her baby dere
en den dey bid off my auntie en uncle way down to de country. Dey wouldn' take no whippin off
dey Massa en dat how-come dey get rid of em. My gran'pappy been worth $1,000 en it de Lord's
truth I tellin you, he drown fore he let em whip him. Den my gran'mammy use to run way en catch
rides long de roads cause de peoples let em do dat den. Coase if dey catch her, dey didn' never
do her no harm cause she was one of dem breed 'omans."

"Never know nothin bout gwine to school in dem times. Just pick up what learnin we get here,
dere, en everywhe'. Learnt something to de white folks meetin house dere to Antioch settin
on de back side of dat church on dem benches what de slaves had to set on. I is know dis much
dat I voted three times to de courthouse in Marion way back in dem days."

"Sho, we chillun play game en frolic heap of de time. Shinny was de thing dat I like best.
Just had stick wid crook in de end of it en see could I knock de ball wid dat. I sho remembers
dat. Den I was one of de grandest hollerers you ever hear tell bout. Use to be just de same
as a parrot. Here how one go: O--OU--OU--O--OU, DO--MI--NICI--O, BLACK--GA--LE--LO, O--OU--OU--O--OU,
WHO--O--OU--OU. Great King, dat ain' nothin."

"Ain' never believe in none of dem charms people talk bout en ain' know nothin bout no conjuring
neither, but I know dis much en dat a spirit sho slapped Maggie one night bout 12 o'clock.
Den another time me en her was comin home from a party one night en I had a jug of something
dere wid me en Maggie ax me for it. Say something was followin after her. De next thing I know
I hear dat jug say, gurgle, gurgle, gurgle. I look back en she been pourin it out on de ground.
She say she do dat to make de spirit quit followin after her. Dat spirit sho been dere cause
I see dat licker disappear dere on de ground wid me own eyes."

"Sho, dey had doctors in dat day en time. Had plant doctors dat go from one plantation to another
en doctor de peoples. Dr. Monroe was one of dem doctor bout here en dere ain' never been no
better cures nowhe' den dem plant cures was. I get Maggie so she can move bout dat way. She
won' able to walk a step en I boil some coon root en put a little whiskey in it en make her
drink dat. It sho raise her up too. Dem coon root look just like dese chufas what you does
find down side de river. Dat sho a cure for any rheumatism what is. I know dat all right."

"Mighty right, I remembers when freedom was declare. I think dat must a been de plan of God
cause it just like dis, if it hadn' been de right thing, it wouldn' been. I know it a good
thing. De North was freed 20 years head of de South en you know it a good thing. I a history
man en I recollects dat de history say de North was freed 20 years fore de South was."

"I sho hear dem guns at Fort Sumter dere en I remembers when dem soldiers come through dis
way dat de elements was blue as indigo bout here. Had parade bout five miles long wid horses
dancin bout en fiddles just a playin. Some of dem Yankees come dere to de white folks house
one of dem time, when my Massa was way from home workin dere on de Manchester Railroad, en
ax my Missus whe' dey horses was. Dem horses done been hide in de bay en dey never get nothin
else dere neither, but a little bit of corn dat dey take out de barn."

"I 87 year old now en I here to tell you dat I never done nobody no mean trick in all me life.
I does fight cause I cut a man up worth 19 stitches one of dem times back dere. Two of em been
on me one time en I whipped both of em. I tellin you I been good as ever was born from a 'oman.
It just like dis, I say fight all right, but don' never turn no mean trick back. Turn it to
God, dat what do. Dem what go to church in de right way, dey don' have no vengeful spirit bout
em. I sho goes to church cause de church de one thing dat does outstand everything--everything."

"My name is Daniel Goddard. I was born in Columbia, S.C. Feb. 14, 1863, to slave parents. You
know I recall no contacts I made in slavery for I was too young during that period. You know
too, if I had been born in Massachusetts, for example, I should have been free, because all
slaves in the United States had been set free when President Lincoln, shortly before my birth,
January, 1863, struck the shackles from bondage.

"The Confederate states had seceded from the Union and they paid no attention to the freedom
proclamation during the war. So the slaves in the South, generally speaking, stayed on until
the Confederacy collapsed in April, 1865, and even then, some of the slaves were slow to strike
out for themselves, until the Federal government made ample preparations to take care of them.

"Now you ask, if I heard about escapes of slaves. Sure I did and I heard my parents discuss
the efforts of slaves to shake off the shackles. This was probably true because my father's
brother, Thomas, was a member of the slave ship which was taking him and 134 others from Virginia
to New Orleans. A few miles south of Charleston, the slaves revolted, put the officers and
crew in irons, and ran the ship to Nassau.

"There they went ashore and the British Government refused to surrender them. They settled
in the Bahama Islands and some of their descendants are there today. That was about 1830, I
think, because my Uncle Thomas was far older than my father. I heard about the other slave
revolts, where that African prince, one of a large number of slaves that were kidnaped, took
over the Spanish ship L'Amada, killing two of the officers. The remaining officers promised
to return the slaves to Africa but slyly turned the ship to port in Connecticut. There the
Spanish minister at Washington demanded the slaves, as pirates. Appeal was made to the courts
and the United States Court ruled that slavery was not legal in Spain and declared the slaves free.

"The Nat Turner insurrection in Virginia and the Vesey uprising in Charleston was discussed
often, in my presence, by my parents and friends. I learned that revolts of slaves in Martinique,
Antigua, Santiago, Caracas and Tortugus, was known all over the South. Slaves were about as
well aware of what was going on, as their masters were. However the masters made it harder
for their slaves for a while.

"I have a clipping, now worn yellow with age, which says the Federal census of 1860, showed
there were 487,970 free Negroes and 3,952,760 slaves in the United States at that time. I am
not at all surprised at the number of free Negroes. Many South Carolina families freed a number
of their slaves. Some slaves had the luck to be able to buy their freedom and many others escaped
to free areas. The problem of slavery as a rule, was a question of wits, the slave to escape
and the master to keep him from escaping.

"I once talked with Frederick Douglass, perhaps the most eminent Negro to appear so far in
America. He told me he was born a slave in Maryland, in 1817, and that he served there as a
slave for ten years. He escaped to Massachusetts, where he was aided in education and employment
by the Garrisons and other abolitionists, and became a leader of his race. He was United States
Minister to Haiti at the time I met him and was eminent as an orator. He died in 1895.

"You ask, what do I think of the Presidents. Well, I have always been such an admirer of Andrew
Jackson, a South Carolinian, that I may be prejudiced a little. The reason I admire him so
much, is because he stood for the Union, and he didn't mean maybe, when he said it. He served
his time and God took him, just as he took Moses.

"Then Lincoln was raised up for a specific purpose, to end slavery, which was a menace to both
whites and blacks, as I see it. And President Wilson kept the faith of the fathers, when he
decided to put the German Kaiser where he could no longer throw the world into discord. But
there has only been one President whose heart was touched by the cry of distress of the poor
and needy and his name is Franklin D. Roosevelt. He is one white man who has turned the bias
of the Negroes from the bait of partisan politics.

"Yes, sir, I recall the reconstruction period here in Columbia. My parents lived until I was
about grown and we kept the middle of the road, in the matter of selling out to the Federal
soldiers and carpet-baggers on the one hand, or to designing politicians on the other. But
my father was an admirer of General Hampton, because General Hampton owned many Negroes at
one time and had treated them well. Between Hampton and Chamberlain for governor, in 1876,
most of my Negro friends voted for Hampton.

"What have I been doing since I grew up? Well, I have been busy trying to make a living. I
worked for various white folks in this community and sometime for the railroads here, in a
minor capacity. My younger years were spent in the quest of an education. For the past thirty
years I have been the porter for the State Paper Company, Columbia's morning newspaper. As
I became proficient in the work, the Gonzales boys grew fond of me. While the youngest one,
Hon. William E. Gonzales, was absent in the diplomatic service in Cuba and in Peru for eight
years for President Wilson, I looked after the needs of Mr. Ambrose Gonzales. Shortly before
he died, Hon. William E. Gonzales returned. He has since been editor and publisher of the 'State',
as well as principal owner.

"You ask, if I have applied for an old age pension. No, I have not. I am old enough to qualify,
I guess, but I understand, you cannot get a pension if you have a job. If that is so, I shall
never enjoy any pension money. I would not leave serving my friend, Captain William E. Gonzales,
for any pension that might be offered me."

<tb>

N.B. This man is well educated, speaks no dialect. He received his education from Northern
teachers in Freedman aid, equal to the modern high school curriculum. He afterward studied
in Boston. He reads, writes, and speaks excellent English. Born at Longwood Plantation on Waccamaw
in 1837, all she knows is the easy, quiet life of the country. And the busy, bustling 'RACE
PATH' near which her Grandson lives with whom she makes her home doesn't make a fitting frame
for the old lady. All day she sits in a porch swing and when hungry, visits a neighbor. The
neighbors (colored--all) vie with each other in trying to make her last days happy days. She
says they do her washing and provide necessary food. When you start her off she flows on like
the brook but usually her story varies little. She tells of the old days and of the experiences
that made the greatest impression--the exciting times during the 'Confedrick' war--the 'Reb
time day.')

Visitor: "Aunt Ellen home?"

Aunt Ellen's neighbor (from the washtub):

"No'um. She right cross there on the 'Race Path'" (So called because in Conway's early days
races were run--horse races--on this street.)

Visitor: "Are you one of the neighbors who take such good care of Aunt Ellen?"

Neighbor: "No'um. I'm off all day. I work for Miss Bernice."

Visitor: "Miss Bernice who?"

Neighbor: "Miss Bernice something nother. I can't keep up with that lady title! See Aunt Ellen
white cap yonder?"

Aunt Ellen (Sitting on chair at back door leaning on cane.)

"I want everybody come to my birthday! Seventh o' October coming be a hundred. Baby one dead
jew (due) time! Five daughter--one sanctify preacher. Seven one--one Ports-smith Virginia.
All dead! All dead! Marry three times; all the husband dead! My last baby child--when the Flagg
storm kill everybody on the beach, (1893) the last child I have out my body been a year old!

"Last time I gone see the old Doctor, rap! rap! Doctor: "Come in!" Gone in. Doctor: "Great
God! Looker Aunt Ellen! For the good you take care Daddy Harry, God left you live long time!"

<tb>

Ellen: "Flat 'em all up to Marlboro! (All the slaves) Ten days or two weeks going. PeeDee bridge,
stop! Go in gentlemen barn! Turn duh bridge! Been dere a week. Had to go and look the louse
on we. Three hundred head o' people been dere. Couldn't pull we clothes off. (On flat.) Boat
name Riprey. Woman confine on boat. Name the baby 'RIPREY!' Mama name Sibby."

(Neighbor: "Aunt Ellen been looking for you all day! Keep saying she got to go home. A white
lady coming and she got to be there!")

Aunt Ellen: "Doctor come on boat. By name Doctor Lane. White lady come tend woman. Get to Marlboro
where they gwine. Put in wagon. Carry to the street. Major Drake Plantation. One son Pet Drake.
Wife leetle bit of a woman.

"I see Abram Lincoln son Johnny! Talk with him! Gimme tobacco. I been to loom. Weave. Sheckle
flying--flying sheckle!

  (Singing): "Tech (touch) me all round my waist!
              Don't tech my water-fall!
              Gay gal setting on the rider fence!
              Don't tech my water-fall!"

"Clothes gone to wash this morning. (Can't go today.) Clothes gone.

"I been here so long--I ax Jesus one day carry me next day! Can't make up my bed. Like an old
hog sleep on a tussick." (I always heard it 'Toad on a tussock'--and you?)

(Four lean cats prowled about sniffing around the woodpile where a boy was scaling some pale,
dead fish.)

Visitor: "Aunt Ellen, how could you cook on the flat?"

Aunt Ellen: "Dirt bank up. Fire make on dirt. Big pot. Cook. Fry meat. Come PeeDee get off
flat. Bake. Bake. Iron oven. Stay PeeDee week. Bake. Pile coals on oven top." (Another slave
told of scaffold--four posts buried and logs or planks across top with earth on planks. On
this pile of earth, fire was made and on great bed of coals oven could be heated for baking.
'Oven' means the great iron skillet-like vessel with three legs and a snug lid. This oven bakes
biscuit, pound cake, and some old timers insist on trusting only this oven for their annual
fruit cake. It works beautifully on a hearth. Put your buttermilk biscuit in, lid on and pile
live-oak coals on top. Of course only the ones who have done this a long time know when to
take the lid off.)

"Dirt camp to stay in--to hide from Yankee." (Her gestures showed earth was mounded up.)

Visitor: "Like a potato bank? A potato hill?"

Ellen: "Dat's it! Pile 'em! Gone in dirt camp to hide we from Yankee. Have a Street Row of
house. Yankee coming. Gone in dirt camp.

"I been weave. My loom at door. Six loom on dat side! Six loom on dis side! I see 'em coming.
Hat crown high as this." (She measured off almost half of her walking stick--which had a great,
tarnished plated silver knob.) "And I tell 'em 'Yankee coming!' I talk with Abram Lincoln own
son Johnny and, bless your heart I glad for Freedom till I fool!"

(Singing)

  'Freedom forever!
  Freedom everymore!
  Want to see the Debbil run
  Let the Yankee fling a ball
  The Democrack will take the swamp!'

"Massa been hide. Been in swamp." (This is history. All the old men, too old for the army,
hid in Marlboro swamps and were fed by faithful slaves until Yankees passed on. My grandmother
and mother gave vivid accounts of this--my mother telling of the sufferings of the women--mental--worrying
about her feeble old grandfather down there with the mocassins)

Ellen: "Yankee officer come. 'Where Mahams Ward and John J. Woodward? Come to tell 'em take
dese people out the dirt camp! Put we in flat. Carry back!' (In first story Aunt Ellen told
the Yankee Captain said, 'Tell 'em be Georgetown to salute the flag!')

"Put food and chillun in flat. We been walk." (Walking back to Waccamaw) We gone. (See 'um!
See their feet like the children of Israel in Green Pastures!) In man's house. Man say, 'Come
out! You steal my turnip!' Brush arbor. Night come. Make camp. Way down the road somewhere!
Make a big bush camp. All squeeze under there. Left Marlboro Monday. Come Conway Friday sun
down! Hit Bucksville, hit a friend. Say 'People hungry!' Middle night. Snow on ground. Get
up. Cook. Cook all night! Rice. Bake tater. Collard. Cook. Give a quilt over you head. I sleep.
I sleep in the cotton. I roost up the cotton gone in there." (Burrowed down in the cotton--'rooted'
it up) "December. Winter time. Cook all night. Corn-bread, baked tater, collard. Git to Bucksport,
people gin to whoop and holler! Three flat gone round wid all the vittles." (And with the very
young and very old) Easier coming home. Current helped. Going up against the current, only
poles and cant hooks--tedious going. "Git 'Tip Top' (Plantation) all right. Come home den!
Git to double trunk (rice-field trunk) at 'Tip Top' Whoop! Come bring flat! Mother Molly dead
on flat! Bury she right to Longwood grave-yard. Nuss. (nurse) Sam'l Hemingway bury there. Horse
kill 'em in thrashing mill. Child name Egiburt bury there too. Horse gwine round in thrashing.
He lick the horse. Horse kick 'em. Whole gang white jury come!

"Sing and pray all the time. Pray your house. Pray all the time. (I wish to God I could get
some of you clam!)

"Salem Baptist? I helped build Salem! I a choir in Salem!"

  Aunt Ellen Godfrey
  Age 99 years 10 months
  Conway, S.C.

  Project 1655
  Genevieve W. Chandler
  Georgetown County, S.C.

  FOLKLORE

  MOM ELLEN GODFREY
  (Ex-slave--Age 100)

"I'm waitin' on the leese (RELIEF). He was to have my birthday the seven of October.

"Slavery time Maussa buy 'em. We Maussa buy me one good shoe. Send slam to England. Gie me
(give me) good clothes and shoe. I been a-weave. When the Yankee come I been on the loom. Been
to Marlboro district. A man place they call Doctor Major Drake. Got a son name Cap and Pet.
Oh, Jesus! I been here TOO long. In my 99 now. Come seven o' October (1937) I been a hundred.

"Three flat (big flat-boats) carry two hundred head o' people and all they things. We hide
from Yankee but Yankee come and get we. Ask where Maussa! Maussa in swamp. I in buckra house.
I tell Yankee: 'Them gone! Gone to beach!' Yankee say:

"'Tell 'em to be in Georgetown to bow unto flag'.

"That time I been twenty-three years old. Old Doctor Flagg didn't born then. He a pretty child
and so fat. Love the doctor too much. Born two weeks after Freedom. He Ma gone to town. Melia
Holmes? She ain't no more than chillum to me. Laura and Serena two twin sister. When the Freedom
I was twenty-three--over the twenty-five. Great God, have-a-mercy! McGill people have to steal
for something to eat. Colonel Ward keep a nice place. Gie'em (give them) rice, peas, four cook
for chillum, one nurse. Make boy go in salt crick get 'em clam. That same Doctor Flagg Grandpa.
Give you cow clabber. Share 'em and put you bittle for eat.

"Gabe Knox? (A very old colored man who has been dead ten years) I nurse Gabe! I nurse 'em.
He Pappy my cousin. I been a big young woman when he born.

"Albert Calina? He a Christian-hearted people. Christian-heart boy. I give my age. My birthday
get over I want to go right home to Heaven.

"I gone to see Doctor Wardie when I in my 95. He say:

"'Great Dow! Looker Aunt Ellen! In you 95! What make you live to good age you take such good
care you husband--Harry Godfrey.'"

  Conversation of Aunt Ellen Godfrey--age 99 years,
  Conway, S.C. June 25th.

"Would gone wid you Missus, but I waiting on the 'Relief'. He wuz going to bring me the dress
and shoe and ting. My birthday the seven of October coming. We Massa have give we good shoe.
Right here Longwood Plantation. Massa was kind--you know. In my ninety-nine now. Come seben
of October been a hundred. Three flat" (flat boats used for rice field work) "carry two hundred
'o people and all they things. We hide from Yankee but Yankee come and git we. Ask whey (where)
Massa. (Massa in swamp! I in buckra house. I say, 'Dem gone! Gone to beach.' Say, 'Tell 'em
to be in Georgetown to bow unto the flag.' Dat time I been twenty-three year old. Born two
weeks after freedom. He Ma gone Georgetown. Granny git 'em there. Melia Holmes! Ain't no more
dan chillun to me!" (Aunt Melia is eighty-eight or nine--bony and cripple) "She have two twin
sister Laura and Serena. When the Freedom I wuz twenty-three years old.--over the twenty-five.
Great God hab a mercy! Couldn't do dat! Colonel Ward keep a nice place. Doctor McGill people
hab to steal for someting to eat. Gie 'em rice--peas. Four cook for chillun. One nurse". (Aunt
Ellen said 'Nuss') "Make the boy go get 'em clam. That same Dr. Ward GrandPa. Great big sack
'o clam! Give you cow clabber. Shay'm". (Share them--the clabber) "and put on bittle for eat.

"Hagar Brown! She darter (daughter) got a abscess in her stomach. Save Rutledge! I nuss (nurse)
Sabe. I nuss 'em. Her pappy my cousin. I been big young women, I nuss Sabe.

"Albert Calina a christian-hearted people. Christian hearted boy. Relief come. I gie 'em my
age. My birthday over, I wanter go right home to Heaven. Great Dow! 'Looker Aunt Ellen!' (That
is what Dr. Wardie say when I gone see 'um.) 'In you ninety-five! What make you good, you take
care of you husband! 'Harry Godfrey waiting man! Marry twice time. He duh last----

"Andrew Johnson? Dropsy? I have wid every chillun--Oh, I buss (burst) one time. Buss here."
(Illustrating by drawing line across stomach.) "Till it get to my groin it stop! Every time
I get family I swell. Never have a doctor 'Granny' for me yet. My Mary good old Granny. Catch
two set 'o twin for me. Isaac and Rebecca; David and Caneezer.

"Sell all my fowl and ting--five dollars--me and old man two come to town to we chillun.

"Been Marlboro four year. Yankee foot where they put on stirrup red. Most stand lak a Mr. Smoak--Big
tall--Abraham Lincoln own son Johnny! 'You jess as free as ribbon on my hat!' That what he
say. I been weave. Sheckle!" (Aunt Ellen worked foot and hand and mouth in illustrating how
the shuttle worked back and forth--and the music it made).

"Conch? Eat 'm many time! Take 'em bile! Grind 'em up!

"Welcome Beas? She son get kill in Charston, Welcome Beas son courting my gal.

"Tom Duncan? He child to me. He wife Susannah. I know duh fambly. I gone knock to duh door.

"Come in! Come in! Come in! 'Here duh beard!" (And Aunt Ellen measured on her chest to show
how long Dr. Flagg's beard was).

<tb>

  "Old Daddy Rodgers and merry wuz she!
  The old man wuz cripple
  And Mary wuz blind.
  Keep you hat on you head.
  Keep you head warm
  And set down under that sycamore tree!
  My kite! My kite!
  My kite! My kite!
  Two oxen tripe!
  Two open dish 'o cabbage!
  My little dog!
  My spotted hawg!
  My two young pig a starving!
  Cow in the cotton patch. Tell boy call dog drive pig out cotton!
  Heah duh song;
  Send Tom Taggum
  To drive Bone Baggum
  Out the world 'o wiggy waggum!"

(This last song chanted out by Aunt Eleanor Godfrey, age 99, is really a gem. She said 'Bone
Baggum' boney old white cow. (cotton patch)

<tb>

  Rock-a-bye!
  Rock-a-bye!
  Down come baby cradle and all!
  Roll 'em! Roll 'em! Roll 'em!
  Roll 'em and boll' em!
  And put 'em in the oven!

<tb>

"I KNOW when I was a woman Ben was boy!" (Ben now 88)

<tb>

"Go to writin'!":

  If you want to know my name
  Go to Uncle Amos house.
  Big foot nigger and he six foot high.
  Try to bussin' at my waterfall! (Kissin' her waterfall--head-dress.)
  Oh, the gay gal
  Settin' on the rider (fence 'rider' on 'stake and rider fence')
  Gay gal waterfall.
  Don't tech (touch) my waist
  But bounce my shirt!
  Don't touch my waterfall!"

"I sing that sing to 'em and man buss out and cry! 'My God! You talk ME?' I ain't want him!
I kick him with that same word.

"They was Zazarus and Lavinia. Dead can't wash for myself. I go wash and lay Lavinia out. And
he husband wanter (want to) marry with me. I kick him with that same sing. Hint to wise. If
he couldn't understand that he couldn't understand nothing.

"Mr. Godfrey my last husband, he worth all the two I got. I have the chillun. Wenus, Jane,
Patient, Kate, Harry, Edmund, Jeemes--"

  =Source:= Mom Ellen Godfrey
          Age 100 October 1937
          Conway, S.C.

  S-260-264-N
  Project #1655
  Augustus Ladson
  Charleston, S.C.

  Page 1
  No. Words 1654

  MASTER WAS NEVER SO MOROCIOUS
  SLAVES CALLED COW-MEAT FISH
  SLAVE BORN WITH A 'CALL'

I come frum Mt. Pleasant an' was bo'n January 15, 1855 on Mr. Lias Winning plantation on the
Cooper River. I wus den six years ole w'en the war broke out an' could 'member a good many
things. My ma an' pa bin name Anjuline an' Thomas Goodwater who had eight boys an' eight gals.
I use to help my gran'ma 'round the kitchen who wus the cook for the fambly. I am the older
of the two who is alive. Peter, the one alive, live on my place now, but I ain't hear from
dem for two years. I don' know for certain dat he's alive or not.

In slavery the people use to go an' catch possums an' rabbits so as to hab meat to eat. De
driber use to shoot cows an in de night de slaves go an' skin um an' issue um 'round to all
the slaves, 'speciall w'en cows come frum anodder plantation. He go 'round an' tell the slaves
dey better go an' git some fish 'fore all go. Any time any one say e hab fish it wus understood
e mean cow-meat. Our boss ain't nebber cetch on nor did e ebber miss any cow; Gie Simmons,
de collud driber wus under Sam Black, the white overseer. Sam Black wusn't mean, he jus' had
to carry out orders of Lias Winning, our master. Dere wus a vegetable garden dat had things
for the year round so we could hab soup an' soup could be in the Big House.

One day w'en I wus 'bout fourteen I did supin an' ma didn' like it. A bunch of gals bin home
an' ma wheel my short over my head an' start to be at me right 'fore the gals. Dey begged her
not to lick me an' she got mad jus' for dat. I couldn't help myself cuz she tie' de shirt over
my head wood a string, my han's an' all wuz tie' in de shirt wood the string. In hot wedder
gals an' boys go in dere under shirts an' nothin' else.

Boys in dose days could fight but couldn' throw any one on the groun'. We had to stan' up an
eider beat or git beat.

I wus married in 1872 to Catharine, my wife. At our weddin' we had plenty to eat. There wus
possums, wine, cake, an' plenty o' fruits. I had on a black suit, black shoes, white tie an'
shirt. Catharine had on all white. I stay' wood Catharine people for a year 'til I wus abled
to buil' on my lan'. I am a fadder of nineteen chillun; ten boys an' nine gals; only two now
livin'.

Lias Winning wusn' a mean man. He couldn' lick pa cus dey grow up togedder or at least he didn'
try. But he liked his woman slave. One day ma wus in da field workin' alone an' he went there
an' try to rape 'er. Ma pull his ears almos' off so he let 'er off an' gone an' tell pa he
better talk to ma. Pa wus workin' in the salt pen an' w'en Mr. Winning tell him he jus' laugh
cus e know why ma did it.

Dere wus a fambly doctor on de plantation name James Hibbins. My eye use to run water a lot
an' he take out my eye an' couldn' put it back in, dats why I am blin' now. He ax ma an' pa
not to say anything 'bout it cus he'd lost his job an' hab his license take 'way. So ma an'
pa even didn' say anything even to Mr. Winning as to the truth of my blin'ness.

I wus by the "nigger quarters" one day w'en Blake, the overseer start' to lick a slave. She
take the whip frum him an' close de door an' give him a snake beatin'.

Our boss had 'bout shree hund'ed acres o' lan' an' ober a hund'ed slaves. De overseer never
wake de slaves. Dey could go in the fiel' any time in the mornin' cus ebery body wus given
their tas' work on Monday Mornin'. No body neber work w'en it rain or cole. Nuttin' make Lias
Winning so mad as w'en one would steal; it make him morocious. Any one he catch stealin' wus
sure to git a good whippin'. He didn' like for any one to fight eider.

Dey tell me dat w'en slaves wus shipped to New Orleans dey had to be dress-up in nice clothes.
My pa could read an' write cus he live' in the city here. His missus teach him.

Isaac Wigfall run 'way an' went to Florida an' meet a white man on a horse with a gun. He ax
de man for a piece o' tobacco. The man give him de gun to hole while he git the tobacco for
him. Isaac take the gun an' point it at the man an' ax 'im, "you know wha' in dis gun?" De
man got frighten' an' he tell de man "you better be gone or I'll empty it in you." The man
gone an' come back wood a group o' men an' houndogs. He'd jus' make it to de river 'fore the
dogs cetch him. He had a piece o' light-wood knot an' ebery time a dog git near he hit um on
de neck an' kill' all o' them. The men went back to git more help an' dogs but w'en dey git
back Isaac wus gone.

Dere wus a collud church fifteen miles frum Mt. Pleasant w'ere we went to service. De preacher
wus name' John Henry Doe. I use to like to sing dis song:

  Run away, run away
  Run away, run away
  Sojus of the cross.

  CHORUS

  Hole on, hole on
  Hole on, hole on
  Hole on, hole on
  Hole on, sojus of the cross.

Ma too use to sing dat song.

Dere use to be dances almos' ebery week an' the older boys an' gals walk twelve miles dis to
be dere. Some time there wus a tamborine beater, some time dey use' ole wash tubs an' beat
it wood sticks, an' some time dey jus' clap their han's. W'en any one die dey wus bury in the
mornin' or early afternoon.

I always play wood ghost cus I wus bo'n with a "call". I kin see the ghost jus' is plain is
ebber. Some time I see some I know an' again others I don' know. Only thing you can' see their
feet cus dey walk off de ground. W'en I use to see dem my sister would put sand on de fire
den dey would go an' I wouldn' see any for a long time. One mornin' my uncle wus passin' a
church an' a ghost appear on the porch. My uncle had a dog wood 'im. He start to run an' the
dog start to run too, an' down the road dey went. He didn' hab on anything but his shirt an'
he say he run so fas' 'til the wind had his shirt-tail stif as a board. He couldn' out run
the dog, nor could the dog out run 'im.

My pa use to sing dis song:

  See w'en' 'e rise
  Rise an' gone,
  See w'en' 'e rise
  Rise an' gone.

  Gone to Galilee on a Sunday morning.
  Oh, my Jesus rise an' gone to Galilee
  On a Sunday morning.

Dey use to sing dis in experience meetin's:

  Go round, go round
  Look at the mornin' star,
  Go round, go round
  Got a soul to save.

  Chorus

  Wuan' for ole satan
  I wouldn' have to pray,
  Satan broke God's Holy Law
  I got a soul to save.

  =Source:=

  Interview with Thomas Goodwater, 108 Anson Street.

  P.S. The variations of words and sentences describe interviews with
  individuals, naturally.

  CHARLIE GRANT
  Ex-Slave, 85 Years

"I born de 24th day of February, 1852 bout 1½ miles of Mars Bluff. My father, Western Wilson,
belonged to Col. William Wilson en my mamma name Chrisie Johnson. She belonged to Dr. William
Johnson en we stay dere wid him four or five years after freedom. Dr. Johnson old home still
standin yonder. It de Rankin home. I drive carts under dat house lots of times in slavery time."
(The house is built high off the ground.)

"Dr. Johnson was a mighty able man, a stiff one, able one. He kill one hundred head of hogs
to feed his niggers wid. Oh, I don' know how many acres of land in his plantation, but I reckon
dere be bout 1,000 or more acres of land. He have slave house all de way from de side of his
house to Tyner. De overseer stay on de lower end of street dat bout ¾ mile long en all de niggers
house up from de overseer to Dr. Johnson house. Over hundreds of dem dere."

"Dr. Johnson en his wife was good to dey niggers as dey could want anybody to be. Had plenty
to eat en plenty clothes to wear all de time. He give all de slaves out something on Saturday
or he give dem more any time dey needed it. Just go en say, 'Boss, I ain' got no rations en
I need some.' Dey give us meat en bread en molasses to eat mostly, but didn' have no wheat
flour den. Dey plant 10 or 20 acres of sprangle top cane en make de molasses en sugar out dat.
Bill Thomas mash it together en cook it for de molasses. Den he take cane en cook it down right
low en make sugar, but it wasn' like de sugar you buy at de store now days. Oh, yes, de slaves
had dey own garden dat dey work at night en especially moonlight nights cause dey had to work
in de field all day till sundown. Mamma had a big garden en plant collards en everything like
dat you want to eat."

"All de niggers dat live in de quarters had bunk beds to sleep on what was thing dat have four
legs en mattress put on it. Have mixed bed dat dey make out of cotton en shucks. De boy chillun
have shuck bed en de girl chillun have cotton bed."

"De peoples bout dere have good clothes to wear in dat day en time. Dey was homemade clothes.
My mamma spin en send dem to de loom house en den dey dye dem wid persimmon juice en different
things like dat to make all kind of colors. Dey give us cotton suit to wear on Sunday en de
nicest leather shoes dat dey make right dere at home. Clean de hair off de leather just as
clean as anything en den de shoemaker cut en sew de shoes. Vidge Frank father de shoemaker.
Vidge Frank live down dere at Claussen dis side de planing mill."

"I hear dem tell dat my grandparents come from Africa. Dey fooled dem to come or I calls it
foolin dem. De peoples go to Africa en when dey go to dock, dey blow whistle en de peoples
come from all over de country to see what it was. Dey fool dem on de vessel en give dem something
to eat. Shut dem up en don' let dem get out. Some of dem jump over board en try to get home,
but dey couldn' swim en go down. Lots of dem still lost down dere in de sea or I reckon dey
still down dere cause dey ain' got back yet. De peoples tell dem dey gwine bring dem to a place
whe' dey can live."

"I tellin you dat was a good place to live in slavery time. I didn' have to do nothin but mind
de sheep en de cows en de goats in dat day en time. All de slaves dat was field hands, dey
had to work mighty hard. De overseer, he pretty rough sometimes. He tell dem what time to get
up en sound de horn for dat time. Had to go to work fore daybreak en if dey didn' be dere on
time en work like dey ought to, de overseer sho whip dem. Tie de slaves clear de ground by
dey thumbs wid nigger cord en make dem tiptoe en draw it tight as could be. Pull clothes off
dem fore dey tie dem up. Dey didn' care nothin bout it. Let everybody look on at it. I know
when dey whip my mamma. Great God, in de mornin! Dey sho had whippin posts en whippin houses
too in dem days, but didn' have no jail. I remember dey whipped dem by de gin house. De men
folks was put to de post what had holes bored in it whe' dey pull strings through to fasten
dem up in dere. Dey catch nigger wid book, dey ax you what dat you got dere en whe' you get
it from. Tell you bring it here en den dey carry you to de whippin post for dat. No men folks
whip me. Women folks whip me wid four plaitted raw cowhide whip."

"Niggers went to white peoples church in dat day en time. Dr. Johnson ride by himself en bought
carriage for niggers to drive his girls dere to Hopewell Church below Claussen. You know whe'
dat is, don' you? Miss Lizzie (Dr. Johnson's daughter) good teacher. She sent me to de gallery
en I recollect it well she told me one Sunday dat if I didn' change my chat, dey were gwine
to whip me. She say, 'You chillun go up in de gallery en behave yourself. If you don', I gwine
beat you Monday.' Dey had catechism what dey teach you en she say, 'Charlie, who made you?'
I tell her papa made me. She ax me another time who made me en I tell her de same thing another
time. I thought I was right. I sho thought I was right. She took de Bible en told me God made
me. I sho thought papa made me en I go home en tell papa Miss Lizzie say she gwine beat me
Monday mornin. He ax me what I been doin cuttin up in church. I say, 'I wasn' doin nothin.
She ax me who made me en I tell her you made me.' He told me dat God made me. Say he made Miss
Lizzie en he made everybody. Ain' nobody tell me dat fore den, but I saved my beaten cause
I changed my chat."

"I hear tell bout de slaves would run away en go to Canada. Put nigger dogs after dem, but
some of dem would get dere somehow or another. If I was livin on your place, I wouldn' dare
to go to another house widout I had a permit from my Massa or de overseer. We slip off en de
patroller catch en whip us. One time dey give my daddy a quilting en ax several women to come
dere. Dey had a lot of chillun to cover en give a quilting so dey can cover dem up. Mistress
tell dem to give so en so dis much en dat much scraps from de loom house. I was settin dere
in de corner en dey blow cane. Common reed make music en dance by it. Dat de only way niggers
had to make music. Dance en blow cane dat night at grandmother's house (Wilson place). Dey
was just a pattin en dancin en gwine on. I was sittin up in de corner en look up en patrol
was standin in de door en call patrol. When dey hear dat, dey know something gwine to do. Dey
took Uncle Mac Gibson en whip him en den dey take one by one out en whip dem. When dey got
house pretty thin en was bout to get old man Gibson, he take hoe like you work wid en put it
in de hot ashes. People had to cut wood en keep fire burnin all de year cause didn' have no
matches den. Old man Gibson went to de door en throwed de hot ashes in de patrol face. Dey
try to whip us, but de old man Gibson tell dem dey got no right to whip his niggers. We run
from whe' we at to our home. Dey tried four year to catch my daddy, but dey couln' never catch
him. He was a slick nigger."

"I don' remember what kind of medicines dey use in slavery time, but I know my mamma used to
look after de slaves when dey get sick. Saw one child bout year or two old took sick en died
en Lester Small want me to dig it up en carry him to de office. I expect dey gwine be dere,
but dey never come. I took it out en laid it on de bank in sheet dat dey give me. Den I picked
it up en carried it in de house. It smeared me up right bad, but I carried it in de office
en he look at it. He put it in de corner en say, 'You can go.' Pay me $2.00. Dr. Johnson want
to cut dat child open. Dat what he want wid it. I know dis much dat dey use different kind
of roots for dey medicines en I see dem wear dime in dey clothes dat dey tell me was to keep
off de rheumatism. Send to Philadelphia to get dat kind of dime."

"I tellin you time hard dese days. I had stroke here en can' work, but I doin de best I can.
Miss Robinson help me daughter do de best she can. Do washin en ironin. Miss Robinson say she
gwine give me old age pension. I ask Miss Robinson, I say, 'I livin now en can' get nothin.
If I die, would you help my chillun bury me?' She say, 'I will do de best I can to help put
you away nice.' Miss Robinson good lady."

  Project #-1655
  Phoebe Faucette
  Hampton County

  Folklore

  [HW: Grant, Rebecca Jane]
  NINETY TWO YEAR OLD NEGRO TELLS OF EARLY LIFE AS SLAVE

In Hampton County at Lena, S.C., there lives an old negro woman who has just passed her ninety-second
birthday, and tells of those days long ago when man was bound to man and families were torn
apart against their will. Slowly she draws the curtain of Time from those would-be-forgotten
scenes of long ago that cannot ever be entirely obliterated from the memory.

"Well, just what is it you want to hear about, Missus?"

"Anything, everything, Auntie, that you remember about the old days before the Civil War. Just
what you've told your grand-daughter, May, and her friend, Alice, here, many times, is what
I want to hear."

"Tell her, mamma," said Alice with a whoop of laughter, "about the time when your Missus sent
you to the store with a note!"

"Oh that! Not that Missus?"

"Yes, Auntie that!"

"Well, I was just a little girl about eight years old, staying in Beaufort at de Missus' house,
polishing her brass andirons, and scrubbing her floors, when one morning she say to me, 'Janie,
take this note down to Mr. Wilcox Wholesale Store on Bay Street, and fetch me back de package
de clerk gie (give) you.'

"I took de note. De man read it, and he say, 'Uh-huh'. Den he turn away and he come back wid
a little package which I took back to de Missus.

"She open it when I bring it in, and say, 'Go upstairs, Miss!'

"It was a raw cowhide strap bout two feet long, and she started to pourin' it on me all de
way up stairs. I didn't know what she was whippin' me bout; but she pour it on, and she pour it on.

"Turrectly she say, 'You can't say "Marse Henry", Miss? You can't say, "Marse Henry"!'

"Yes'm. Yes'm. I kin say. 'Marse Henry'!

"Marse Henry was just a little boy bout three or four years old. Come bout halfway up to me.
Wanted me to say Massa to him, a baby!"

"How did you happen to go to Beaufort, Auntie? You told me you were raised right here in Hampton
County on the Stark Plantation."

"I was, Miss. But my mother and four of us children (another was born soon afterwards) were
sold to Mr. Robert Oswald in Beaufort. I was de oldest, then there was brother Ben, sister
Delia, sister Elmira, and brother Joe that was born in Beaufort. My father belong to Marse
Tom Willingham; but my mother belong to another white man. Marse Tom was always trying to buy
us so we could all be together, but de man wouldn't sell us to him. Marse Tom was a Christian
gentleman! I believe he seek religion same as any colored person. And pray! Oh, that was a
blessed white man! A blessed white man! And Miss Mamie, his daughter, was a Christian lady.
Every Wednesday afternoon she'd fill her basket with coffee, tea, sugar, tobacco and such things,
and go round to de houses where dere was old folks or sick folks. She'd give um de things;
and she'd read de scriptures to um, and she'd kneel down and pray for um. But we had to leave
all de folks we knew when we was took to Beaufort.

"All of us chillun, too little to work, used to have to stay at de 'Street'. Dey'd have some
old folks to look after us--some old man, or some old woman. Dey'd clean off a place on de
ground near de washpot where dey cooked de peas, clean it off real clean, den pile de peas
out dere on de ground for us to eat. We'd pick um up in our hands and begin to eat. Sometimes
dey'd cook hoe cakes in a fire of coals. Dey'd mix a little water with de meal and make a stiff
dough that could be patted into shape with de hands. De cakes would be put right into the fire,
and would be washed off clean after they were racked out from de coals. Sometimes de Massa
would have me mindin' de birds off de corn. But 'fore I left Beaufort, I was doin' de Missus'
washin' and ironin'. I was fifteen years old when I left Beaufort, at de time freedom was declared.
We were all reunited den. First, my mother and de young chillun, den I got back. My uncle,
Jose Jenkins come to Beaufort and stole me by night from my Missus. He took me wid him to his
home in Savannah. We had been done freed; but he stole me away from de house. When my father
heard that I wasn't wid de others, he sent my grandfather, Isaac, to hunt me. When he find
me at my uncle's house, he took me back. We walked all back--sixty-four miles. I was foundered.
You know if'n a foundered person will jump over a stick of burning lightwood, it will make
um feel better."

"Tell us, Auntie, more about the time when you and your mother and brothers and sisters had
just gone to Beaufort.

"Well mam. My mother say she didn't know a soul. All de time she'd be prayin' to de Lord. She'd
take us chillun to de woods to pick up firewood, and we'd turn around to see her down on her
knees behind a stump, aprayin'. We'd see her wipin' her eyes wid de corner of her apron, first
one eye, den de other, as we come along back. Den, back in de house, down on her knees, she'd
be aprayin'. One night she say she been down on her knees aprayin' and dat when she got up,
she looked out de door and dere she saw comin' down out de elements a man, pure white and shining.
He got right before her door, and come and stand right to her feet, and say, "Sarah, Sarah, Sarah!"

"Yes, Sir."

"What is you frettin' bout so?"

"Sir. I'm a stranger here, parted from my husband, with five little chillun and not a morsel
of bread."

"You say you're parted from your husband? You're not parted from your husband. You're jest
over a little slash of water. Suppose you had to undergo what I had to. I was nailed to the
Cross of Mount Calvary. And here I am today. Who do you put your trust in?

"My mother say after dat, everything just flow along, just as easy. Now my mother was an unusually
good washer and ironer. De white folks had been sayin', 'Wonder who it is that's makin' de
clothes look so good.' Well, bout dis time, dey found out; and dey would come bringin' her
plenty of washin' to do. And when dey would come dey would bring her a pan full of food for
us chilluns. Soon de other white folks from round about heard of her and she was gettin' all
de washin' she needed. She would wash for de Missus durin' de day, and for de other folks at
night. And dey all was good to her.

"One day de Missus call her to de house to read her something from a letter she got. De letter
say that my father had married another woman. My mother was so upset she say, 'I hope he breaks
dat woman's jawbone. She know she aint his lawful wife.' And dey say her wish come true. Dat
was just what happened.

"But we all got together again and I thanks de good Lord. I gets down on my knees and prays.
I thanks de Lord for His mercy and His goodness to me every day. Every time I eats, I folds
my hands and thanks Him for de food. He's de one that sent it, and I thanks Him. Then, on my
knees, I thanks him.

"Aunt Jane receives an ample pension since her husband fought on the side with the Federals.
He was known as James Lawton before the war, but became, James Lawton Grant after the war."

  =Source:= Mrs. Delacy Wyman, Mgr. Pyramid Pecan Grove, Lena S.C.
          Rebecca Jane Grant, ninety-two year old resident of
          Lena, S.C.

  Project #-1655
  Phoebe Faucette
  Hampton County

  REBECCA JANE GRANT

"Yes, Ma'am," Aunt Beckie said, "I remembers you, you Miss Mamie Willingham' granddaughter.
She was sure a good woman. She'd fill her buggy with sugar, tea, coffee and tobacco, and go
every Thursday to see the sick and old people. She wouldn't except none--white or colored.
No'm she wouldn't except none! That's the kind of folks you sprung from. You's got a good heritage.

"The most of what I remembers before the war was when I was in Beaufort. They used to take
care of the widows then. Take it by turns. There was a lady, Miss Mary Ann Baker, whose husband
had been an organist in the church. When he died they would all take turns caring for Miss
Mary Ann. I remember I'd meet her on de street and I'd say, 'Good mornin' Miss Mary Ann.' 'Morning
Janie.' 'How you this mornin' Miss Mary Ann?' She'd say, 'Death come in and make alterations,
and hard living make contrivance.' She'd take any old coat, or anything, and make it over to
fit her children, and look good, too. She was a great seamstress. You'd see her children when
they turn out on de street and they looked the same as some rich white people's children. Nearly
all of her children was girls. Had one boy, as well as I kin remember.

"Dey used to make de clothes for de slaves in de house. Had a seamstress to stay there in de
house so de mistress could supervise the work. De cloth de clothes was made out of was hand
woven. It was dyed in pretty colors--some green, some blue, and pretty colors. And it was strong
cloth, too. Times got so hard during de war dat de white folks had to use de cloth woven by
hand, themselves. De ladies would wear bustles, and hoops made out of oak. Old times, they'd
make underbodies with whalebone in it. There was something they'd put over the hoop they call,
'Follow me, boy'. Used to wear the skirts long, with them long trains that trail behind you.
You'd take and tuck it up behind on some little hook or something they had to fasten it up
to. And the little babes had long dresses. Come down to your feet when you hold the baby in
your lap. And embroidered from the bottom of the skirt all the way up. Oh, they were embroidered
up in the finest sort of embroidery.

"One day when I was nursing, my Missus' son--him and I been one age, 'bout the same age--he
go up town and buy a false face. Now I didn't see nuthin' like dat before! He put dat thing
on and hide behind de door. I had de baby in my arms, and when I start toward de door with
de baby, he jump out at me! I threw the baby clean under the bed I was so scared. If it had
of killed it, it wouldn't been me. It'd been dem! Cause I ain't never seen sech a thing before.

"You say what schoolin' de slaves got? They didn't get none--unless it was de bricklayers and
such like, and de seamstresses. If de masters wanted to learn them, they'd let 'em hold de
book. But they wouldn't miss de catechism. And they was taught they must be faithful to the
Missus and Marsa's work like you would to your heavenly Father's work.

"Didn't have no colored churches. De drivers and de over-seers, de house-servants, de bricklayers
and folks like dat'd go to de white folk's church. But not de field hands. Why dey couldn't
have all got in de church. My marsa had three or four hundred slaves, himself. And most of
the other white folks had just as many or more. But them as went would =sing=! Oh they'd sing!
I remember two of 'em specially. One was a man and he'd sing bass. Oh, he'd roll it down! The
other was a woman, and she'd sing soprano! They had colored preachers to preach to de field
hands down in de quarters. Dey'd preach in de street. Meet next day to de marsa's and turn
in de report. How many pray, how many ready for baptism and all like dat. Used to have Sabbath
School in de white people's house, in de porch, on Sunday evening. De porch was big and dey'd
fill dat porch! They never fail to give de chillun Sabbath School. Learn them de Sabbath catechism.
We'd sing a song the church bells used to ring in Beaufort. You never hear it any more. But
I remembers it."

The old woman sang the song for me as melodiously and beautifully as any young person. The
words are:

  "I want to be an angel, and with an angel stand,
  A crown upon my forehead, a harp within my hand.
  Right there before my Saviour, so glorious and so bright,
  I'll hear the sweetest music, and praise Him day and night."

"Old Parson Winborn Lawton used to preach for us after the war until we got our church organized.
He had a daughter named Miss Anna Lawton. At the white folk's church at Lawtonville they had
a colored man who used to sing for them, by the name of Moses Murray. He'd sit there back of
the organ and roll down on them bass. Roll down just like de organ roll! He was Moses Lawton
at that time, you know.

"You know how old I am? I'm in my 94th year. Ella has a dream book she looks up my age in and
tells me what luck I have, and all that. I generally had good luck."

  =Source:= Rebecca Jane Grant, 93 years old. Lena, S.C.

  Project 1885-(1)
  FOLKLORE
  Spartanburg, S.C.
  District No. 4.
  May 26, 1937.

  Edited by:
  R.V. Williams

  STORIES OF EX-SLAVES

"Mos' everybody know my name. You gotta help me. Oh, yeah, dat's what I goes by. It's Brack;
dey calls me ole uncle Brack".

"Look out, over dar!" said a negro who was standing nearby. "Uncle Brack, you know you is got
mo' names dan dat. Why, everwhar you goes, dey calls you a different name."

"Shet up, you sassy-mouth nigger!" Uncle Brack waved his stick as the younger negro moved out
of its reach. Uncle Brack walks with two sticks nearly all the time. He is bent almost double.

"He de greatest nigger rascal a-gwine," Uncle Brack said. "He jest dream all de time, and dreams
don't nebber amount to nothin'. Dem dreams what he carries on wid in de daytime, dey is what
makes him tell so many lies. De idea, talking like I has a different name everwhar I goes,
when I don't go nowhar. Why, I can't hardly hobble to de sto'.

"Dey mus' help me. I took down sick in November. Mr. Rice sent me things. You gov'ment folks
ain't sont me much as Mr. Rice and de good white folks what likes me. I'se bawn ten years when
Freedom come out. Benn seventy-odd years since Freedom, ain't it, Cap?

"Dr. Jim Gibbs was mighty good to me. You sees dat I'se a-gwine about now. Dr. Gibbs come from
Aiken to Union and set up a drug sto' whar Cohen's is now. Dr. Gibbs was a Charleston man,
but I is a Kentucky darky. Dr. Gibbs brung me from Kentucky to Charleston when I was five years
old. My ma was de one dat dey bought. Dr. Gibbs' wife was a Bohen up in Kentucky. When Dr.
Gibbs fetch his wife to Charleston, he bought my ma from his wife's pa, and she fetch me along too.

"It ten o'clock befo' I can creep. Dat de reason dat I has to beg. Wasn't fer my age, I wouldn't
ax nobody fer nothing. De Lawd done spared me fer somethin' and I carries on de best dat I
can. Doctor say he couldn't do no good. Dat been five years ago de fust time I tuck down. Doctors
steadies about money too much. I trustes de Lawd, He spare me to dis day. I can't hardly walk,
and I jus' can't bear fer nothing to touch dis foot. I has to use two sticks to walk. (Uncle
Brack punched his foot with a stick; then looked up and saw two negro girls approaching.)

"As the girls got opposite Uncle Brack, he threw his stick in front of them and they exclaimed,
"Is dat you, Uncle Brack? How did you get up here?" Uncle Brack replied, "I never meant fer
you to git by me. Jes kaize I'se ole, ain't no reason fer you not speaking to me." As the girls
walked on, Uncle Brack said, "I flirts wid all de colored gals, and I also has a passing word
for de white ladies as dey goes by."

"I used to work at the baker shop over dar when Mr. James' chilluns was little saplings. I'se
gwine on eighty-six and dem big boys raise dey hats to me. White people has respec' for me
kaize I ain't never been in jail. I knows how to carry myself, and I specs to die dat way if
I can. Lil chile what jus' could talk good gived me a penny dis mawning.

"I used to could read. I learnt to read in Aiken, when school fust broke out to de colored
people. Northern people teached me to read long time ago. Now my eyes is dim." Dey been bringing
my things out to me--is dat what you'se doing, setting down here by me? I was born on de first
Christmas Day, I means de 25th of December, 1855; in Newberry County on de Sam Cannon place.
You had to turn off de Ashford Ferry Road about seven and a half miles from de town of Newberry.
My mother was Frances Cannon of near Cannon Creek Church.

"I'll try to give you a straight definition. Old man Sim Gallman was my old missus' brother;
she was Miss Viny Cannon. My boss was overseer for Mr. Geo. Gallman. We was on Mr. George's
place. When Mr. Gallman started overseeing, Mr. Sim Gallman come over dar for dem to take his
place and care for him.

"My boss, Sam Cannon, promised me a place. Miss Viny Cannon suckled me and her son Henry at
de same time, me on one knee and Henry on t'other. Dey calls me 'Timber'. Miss Sallie said
to us atter Freedom, 'You ain't got no marsters'. I cried. My Ma let me stay wid Miss Sallie.
Mr. Henry Gallman promised to marry Miss Sally Cannon, my young missus; but he went to de war
and never come back home no mo'. Mr. Jeff Gallman went, but he come back wid one arm. Mr. Tom
Gallman went and married his first cousin, Miss Addie Cannon; he never got to go to de war.

"My father was a full-blooded Indian from Virginia. He was a refugee. But you know dat dey
had a way of selling people back den. Somebody caught him and sold him at one of dem sales.
De man what bought him was Mr. Jeff Buzzard. He went back to Virginia atter de surrender. I
would not go. He took another woman on de place, and my mother would not let me go. De woman's
name dat he took was Sara Danby. She had two brothers and a sister--Samuel, Coffee, and Jenny.

"My mother was mixed Indian and African blood. My folks got 'stroyed up in a storm. My grandfather
was named Isaac Haltiwanger. My grandmother, his wife, was named Annie. Dey had one child who
was my mother; her name Frances. My grandmother's name was Molly Stone.

"My parents, talking 'bout de Africans, how funny dey talked. Uncle Sonny and uncle Edmund
Ruff was two of de old 'uns. Old man Charles Slibe was de preacher. He was a Methodist. My
father was a Baptist. His white folks, de Billy Caldwells, prepared de barn for him to preach
to dere slaves. In dat day, all de Africans was low chunky fellers and raal black. Dey said
dat in Africa, little chilluns run 'round de house and de fattest one fall behind; den dey
kill him and eat him. Dat's de worst dat I ever heard, O Lawd!

"I hates dat Missus didn't whip me mo' and let me be teached to read and write so dat I wouldn't
be so ignant.

"For de neuralgia, take and tie two or three nutmegs around yo' neck. Tie brass buttons around
de neck to stop de nose a-bleeding."

Greeley's house has four rooms and it is in great need of repair. It is badly kept and so are
the other houses in "Fowler's Row". He lives with his wife, Eula, but she was not home during
the visit.

"My house 'longs to a widder woman. She white but I does not know her name. Her collector is
Mr. Wissnance (Whisenant). He got a office over here on E. Main St., right up in de town. I
rents by de month but I pays by de week--a dollar. De house sho is gwine down. Rest of de houses
on de Row is repaired, but mine ain't yet; so she have Mr. Wissnance drap off twenty-five cents,
and now I is paying only seventy-five cents a week. Me and Eula has to go amongst de white
folks fer bread and other little things. Ain't got no bread from 'Uncle Sam' since last August.
See my tater patch, wid knee-high vines.

"De case worker want to git my age and whar I's born. I told her jest what I told you. She
say she got to have proof; so I told her to write Mr. Cannon Blease who was de sheriff. I means
de High Sheriff, fer nigh thirty years in Newberry. And does you know, she never even heard
of Mr. Cannon Blease. Never had no money but Mr. Blease knowed it, so he up and sont my kerrect
age anyway. It turn't out jest 'zactly like I told you it was. What worried me de mostest,
is dat she never knowed Mr. Cannon Blease. Is you ever heard of sech a thing as a lady like
dat not knowing Mr. Blease?

"Now Mr. Dr. Snyder is a man dat ain't setting here 'sleep. He's a mill'onaire, kaise he run
Wofford College and it must take a million dollars to do dat, it sho must. My case worker knowed
him.

"De case worker calls me 'Preacher', but I ain't got up to dat yet--I ain't got dat fer. I
been sold out twice in insurance. I give my last grand-baby de name 'Roosevelt', and his daddy
give him 'Henry'. His Ma never give him none. Some folks loads down babies and kills dem wid
names, but his ma never wanted to do dat. So us jest calls him Henry Roosevelt. Us does not
drap none and us does not leave none out.

"Went to church one night and left my pocketbook in a box on my mantel. Had $120.00 in it in
paper, and $8 in silver. Some niggers dat had been watching me broke down my do' dat I had
locked. Dey took de $120 and left de $8. Went home and I seed dat broke do'. I went straight
to my mantel and see'd what was done. Dey never bothered de books and papers in dat box. Next
morning, de nigger what lived next do' to me was gone. I went to a old fortune teller, a man;
he say I know dat you lost a lot. De one I thought got de money, he said, was not de right
one. He say dat three hobos got it. One had red hair, one sandy hair and de other had curly
hair. He say somebody done cited dem and dey sho going to be caught dis very day. He say dat
dey come from Asheville. But he was wrong, kaise dey ain't never caught no three hobos dat
I ever learn't about.

"One day when I was plowing, I struck de plow 'ginst something. My plow knocked off de handle.
I heard money rattle. It ringed three times. I couldn't see nothing, so I called my wife and
son and dey looked, but we never found but five cents. Never in my life did I hear of a bank
in slavery times. Everybody buried dere money and sometimes dey forgot where dey put it. I
thought dat I had run on some of dat money den, but I never found none. Lots of money buried
somewhars, and folks died and never remembered whar it was.

"A nigger republican leader got kilt. I hel't de hosses fer de Ku klux. Great God-a-mighty,
Dave and Dick Gist and Mr Caldwell run de sto' at de Rutherford place in dem times. Feeder
of dem hosses was Edmund Chalmers. Mr. Dick say, 'Hello, Edmund, how come dem mules so po'
when you got good corn everywhar--what, you stealing corn, too?' Mr. Oatzel say, 'Yes, I cotch
him wid a basket on his shoulder.' 'Whar was you carrying it?' Edmund say, 'To Mr. Caldwell'.
Mr. Caldwell say he ain't see'd no corn. Dey took Edmund to de jail. He had been taking corn
and selling it to de carpetbaggers, and dat corn was fer de Ku Klux hosses.

"Dere was a Mr. Brown, a white man, dat come up to live in Newberry. Dey called him a refugee.
Us called him Mr. 'Refugee Brown'. He was sorter destituted and not a bit up-to-date. He settled
near de Gibson place. I fed de Gibson boys' fox-dogs about dat time fer dem.

"I want to git right wid you, now; so I can meet you lovely. In '73, I thought someone was
shaking my house; I come out doors wid my gun; see'd white and colored coming together. Everybody
was scared. All got to hollering and some prayed. I thought dat de earth gwine to be shook
to pieces by morning. I thought of old Nora (Noah).

"Dem Bible folks see'd a little hand-span cloud. Nora had done built him a house three stories
high. Dat little cloud busted. Water riz in de second story of de wicked king's palace. He
sont fer de northern lady. When she come a-shaking and a-twisting in de room de king fell back
in his chair. He say dat he give her anything she want, all she got to do is ask fer it. She
say to cut off John Wesley's head and bring it to her. De king had done got so suluctious dat
he done it. Dat king and all of dem got drowned. Nora put a lot of things in de ark dat he
could have left out, sech as snakes and other varments; but de ark floated off anyhow. No sir,
dat wasn't de Clifton flood, dat was Nora's flood." The house is still there who' recent owner
is Judge Whaley. My ma an' pa was Kate an' John Green. My ma had seben chillun (boys) an I
am the last of 'em. Their names was: Henry, Scipio, Ellis, Nathaniel, Hobart, Mikell, an' myself.

"From the South-East of Calhoun Street, which was then Boundry Street, to the Battery was the
city limit an' from the North-West of Boundry Street for sev'als miles was nothin' but fa'm
land. All my brothers was fa'm han's for our master, George W. Jones. I did all the house work
'til the war w'en I was given to Mr. Wm. Jones's son, Wm. H. Jones as his "daily give servant"
who' duty was to clean his boots, shoes, sword, an' make his coffee. He was Firs' Lieutenant
of the South Car'lina Company Regiment. Bein' his servant, I wear all his cas' off clothes
which I was glad to have. My shoes was call' brogan that has brass on the toe. W'en a slave
had one of 'em you couldn't tell 'em he wasn't dress' to death.

"As the "daily give servant" of Mr. Wm. H. Jones I had to go to Virginia durin' the war. In
the battle at Richmond Gen'al Lee had Gen'al Grant almos' beaten. He drive him almos' in the
Potomac River, an' then take seven pieces of his artillery. W'en Gen'al Grant see how near
defeat he was, he put up a white flag as a signal for time out to bury his deads. That flag
stay' up for three weeks while Gen'al Grant was diggin' trenches. In the meantime he get message
to President Lincoln askin' him to sen' a reinforcement of sojus. Gen'al Sherman was in charge
of the regiment who sen' word to Gen'al Grant to hol' his position 'til he had captur' Columbia,
Savannah, burn out Charleston while on his way with dispatch of 45,000 men. W'en Gen'al Sherman
got to Virginia, the battle was renew' an' continued for seven days at the en' of which Gen'al
Lee surrender' to Gen'al Grant. Durin' the seven days fight the battle got so hot 'til Mr.
William Jones made his escape an' it was two days 'fore I know he was gone. One of the Gen'als
sen' me home an' I got here two days 'fore Mr. William got home. He went up in the attic an'
stay' there 'til the war was end'. I carry all his meals to him an' tell him all the news.
Master show was a frighten' man; I was sorry for him. That battle at Richmond, Virginia was
the wors' in American history.

Dr. George W. Jones, my master, ran a blockade. He had ships roamin' the sea to capture pirates
ships. He had a daughter, Ellen, who was always kin' to the slaves. Master had a driver, William
Jenkins, an' an' a' overseer, Henry Brown. Both was white. The driver see that the work was
done by the supervision of the overseer. Master' fa'm amounted to twenty-five acres with 'bout
eighteen slaves. The overseer blow the ho'n, which was a conch shell, at six in the mornin'
an' every slave better answer w'en the roll was call' at seven. The slaves didn't have have
to work on Sat'day.

Mr. Ryan had a private jail on Queen Street near the Planters Hotel. He was very cruel; he'd
lick his slaves to death. Very seldom one of his slaves survive' a whippin'. He was the opposite
to Govenor Aiken, who live' on the North-West corner of Elizabeth an' Judith Streets. He had
several rice plantations, hundreds of his slaves he didn't know.

Not 'til John C. Calhoun' body was carried down Boundry Street was the name change' in his
honor. He is bury in St. Phillip Church yard, 'cross the street with a laurel tree planted
at his head. Four men an' me dig his grave an' I clear' the spot w'ere his monument now stan'.
The monument was put up by Pat Callington, a Charleston mason. I never did like Calhoun 'cause
he hated the Negro; no man was ever hated as much as him by a group of people.

The Work House (Sugar House) was on Magazine Street, built by Mr. Columbus C. Trumbone. On
Charlmer Street is the slave market from which slaves was taken to Vangue Range an' auctione'
off. At the foot of Lawrence Street, opposite East Bay Street, on the other side of the trolly
tracks is w'ere Mr. Alonze White kept an' sell slaves from his kitchen. He was a slave-broker
who had a house that exten' almos' to the train tracks which is 'bout three hundred yards goin'
to the waterfront. No train or trolly tracks was there then 'cause there was only one railroad
here, the Southern, an' the depot was on Ann Street w'ere the Baggin' Mill now is.

W'en slaves run away an' their masters catch them, to the stockade they go w'ere they'd be
whipp' every other week for a number of mornins. An' de for God sake don' you be cotch with
pencil an' paper, dat was a major crime. You might as well had kill your master or missus.

One song I know I use to sing to the slaves w'en master went 'way, but I wouldn't be so fool
as to let him hear me. What I kin 'member of it is:

  Master gone away
  But darkies stay at home,
  The year of jubilee is come
  An' freedom will begun.

A group of white men was in Doctor Wilson' drug store one day w'en I went to buy something.
They commence' to ax me questions concernin' some historical happenin's an' I answer them all.
So Dr. Wilson bet 'me that I couldn't tell who fired the firs' shot on Fort Sumter. I tell
him I did know an' he offer's dollar if I was right. I tell him I wasn't goin' tell 'less the
dollar was given to one of the men. He did so an' I told them it was Edward Ruffin who fired
the firs' shot an' the dollar was mine. Anderson was determine' not to leave the fort but w'en
'bout four shells had hit the fort he was glad to be able to come out. W'en Sherman was comin'
through Columbia, he fired an' a shell lodged in the South-East en' ef the State House which
was forbidden to be fix'. He was comin' down Main Street w'en that happens'.

The firs' two people that was hung in Charleston was Harry an' Janie; husban' an' wife who
was slaves of Mr. Christopher Black. Mr. Black had them whip' an' they planned to kill the
whole fambly. They poison the breakast one morning an' if two of the fambly han' been sleep,
they too would a been dead. The others die almos' instantly. An investigation was made an'
the poison discovered an the two slaves hung on the big oak in the middle of Ashley Avenue.

If'en any in your owner' fambly was goin' to be married the slaves was dress' in linen clothes
to witness the ceremony. Only special slaves was chosen to be at the weddin'. Slaves was alway
ax how they like' the one who was comin' in the [TN: two illegible words.] myself by sayin'
nice things 'bout the person en hate' the person at the same time.

Slaves was always bury in the night as no one could stop to do it in the day. Ole boards was
use' to make the coffin that was blackened with shoe polish.

After the war I did garden work.

Mr. Stiles Bee on James Islan' give track of lan' to the Negroes for a school jus' after the
war; he put up a shed-like buildin' with a few chairs in it. It was at the place call Cut Bridge.

Henry McKinley, a Negro who ran as congressman from Charleston jus' after the war, lived on
Calhoun Street. He was a mail carrier. He made an oath to Almighty God that if he was elected,
he'd never betray his trus'. In one of his speeches he said: "I hope God 'ill paralize me should
I do as others have done." He was elected an' never see the Congress. One white man from Orangeburg,
Samuel Dibbin, bought him out. An' three weeks later McKinley took a stroke that carry him
to a' early grave. James Wright, a Negro judge of Charleston in 1876 sol' out for ten thousand
dollars--a dime of which he hasn't receive' yet. He 'cross the bridge an' stay in a' ole house
an' die there. The Probate Judge, A. Whipper, refused to give up the books of Judge Wright
to the white man he sell out to. Judge Whipper went in Beauford jail an' die there 'cause he
wouldn't give up the books. Wright kept such a poor record that Judge Whipper was ashamed to
have them expose', an' that's why he didn't give up the books. Henry Smalls, owner of the Smalls
Lot on Comin' Street was Second Lieutenant on the Police Force. Henry Fordham was Second Assistant
Lieutenant. Captain James Williams, Third Assistant Lieutenant who become Captain of the Military
Department an' forme' the Carolina Light Infantry which was recogniz' 'til Ben Tillman call'
them on the Green an' take their guns.

I was janitor at Benedict College in Columbia for two years an' at Clafflin in Orangeburg for
twelve. The Presidents under which I worke' was: Allen Webster, grandson of the dictionary
maker; J.C. Cook; an' Dr. Duntin.

Now all that is pass' an I'm livin' from han' to mouth. The banks took all my money an' I can't
work. I do the collectin' for my lan'lord an' he give me a room free. If it wasn't for that
I don't know what I'd do. Jest about de very first recollection dat sticks wid me, is my mammy
a-hiding me when de Ku Klux was riding. She heard de hosses a-trotting and she rushed us out'n
our beds and took us and buried us in de fodder out in our barn, and told us to be as quiet
as possible. Both my parents went and hid in de edge of de woods. De Ku Klux passed on by widout
even holding up dere hosses.

"During slavery my mother went to Mississippi wid her mistress, Artimesse Smith Ross. Soon
atter Freedom dey come back to Smith's Ford on de Pacolet. Steers pulled 'slides', wid de white
folk belongings on de slides. We niggers went to meeting on de slides. De ends of de slides
was curved upward. When we got to meeting, we went under de brush arbors. Fresh brush was kept
cut so dat de sun would not shine through. Under de arbors we sat on slabs and de preacher
stood on de ground. We had better meetings den dan dey have now. Everybody had better religion
den dan dey does now. In dem days religion went further dan it does now. Yes sir, religion
meant something den, and went somewhars. My pappy rode a ginny to preaching.

"Dere was not as much devilment as dere is now. Times was better fer niggers. One day last
week I went to meeting and took dinner. We eat on a slab table and had ice tea to drink. Meas
was dere drinking on de side, and all other devilment dey could carry on in sight of de church.
De preacher eat wid us. Some eat out of dere buckets and would not come and be wid de crowd.
Long time ago, nobody didn't act greedy like dat. Girls cut up like boys now, and nobody don't
look down on dem.

"When I was a boy, girls acted like de old folks and dey did not carry on. Nobody ever heard
of a girl drinking and smoking den. If a girl made a mistake in de old days she was throwed
overboard. Why when I was little, us boys went in a-washing wid de girls and never thought
nothing 'bout it. We was most grown befo' we know'd a thing 'bout man and woman. I was fifteen
years old when I got my first shoes and dey had brass toes. We played ball wid de girls in
de house, and sung songs like: 'Goosey, Goosey Gander'."

"We had wheat bread only once a week," said Jesse Stevenson who came up and entered the conversation,
"and dat was on Sunday. I had a good time at Green's wedding. Green married Carrie Phillips
who lived two miles above me. We boys talked to de girls in school. We was around twenty years
old befo' we went to school. Of course dat was atter Freedom. De teacher would light on both
of us fer talking across de books. Carrie was about a year younger dan Green. Green, tell de
gentleman (interviewer) what you said when you ax'd uncle Ben fer Carrie."

"I say," said Green, "come out into de cool of de yard, please sir, if you will uncle Ben;
I has a question of de utmost concern to us both to lay at your feet'. Uncle Ben say, 'Look
here, young nigger, don't you know dat I ain't got no business gwine out in no night dew--what
ails you nohow?' I 'lows, 'Uncle Ben, it is a great matter of life and death dat I wishes to
consult wid you over'. He clear his throat and spit in de fire and say, 'Wait, I'll come if
it's dat urgent.' I took him under a tree so dat no dew wouldn't drap on his head and give
him a cold. I said, 'I want to marry your daughter, uncle Ben.' He say, 'Which one is dat dat
you wishes, Sir?' 'De purttiest one, Carrie,' says I; 'dat is, if you ain't got no objection.'

"Befo' I axed fer Carrie I was loving two gals, but of course I drapped de other'n after uncle
Ben give me a favorable answer. Me and Carrie married at Miss Twitty Thompson's house. Dat
whar uncle Ben had raised Carrie. Carrie's missus give her a good wedding supper wid chicken,
ham, turkey, cake and coffee, and tater salad. Seventy-five people is what Miss Twitty let
Carrie ax to dat supper. All dem niggers was dere, too.

"I had on a grey suit wid big stripes in it. Carrie had on a white dress and a white veil.
We used dat veil to keep de skeeters off'n our first two babies. It made de best skeeter net.
We married one Sunday morning at 'leven o'clock and had dinner at twelve; give de preacher
twenty-five cents. Never no one give us no presents. We stayed at my pappy's house fer years.
He give us a bed, a bureau and a washstand. Carrie's folks give us de bed clothes, and dats
what we started on. Jesse, tell de gentleman what you did at my wedding."

"I stood wid Green," said Jesse Stevenson, "and I had on a brown suit wid grey stripes gwine
up and down it. Atter de ceremony all de gals wanted to swing me and Green, but Carrie grabbed
him and shake her head and grin; so I got all de swinging."

Green said, "Me and Carrie never went no whar atter our marriage. We stayed on wid my pappy
and worked. We been doing well ever since."

  =Source:= W. M. Green (71); Jesse Stevenson (71), Rt. 1, Gaffney, S.C.
          Interviewer: Caldwell Sims 8/23/37

  Project #-1655
  Phoebe Faucette
  Hampton County

  Approx. 390 words
  FOLKLORE

  ADELINE GREY 82 YEAR OLD
  Ex-Slave

Adeline Grey seemed in good health as she sat before her granddaughter's comfortable fire.
She spoke quietly, with little excitement, and readily recalled events of her early childhood.

"I was a girl when freedom was declare, an' I kin remember 'bout de times. My Ma used to belong
to ole man Dave Warner. I remember how she used to wash, and iron, an' cook for de white folks
durin' slavery time.

"I member when de Yankees come through. I wuz right to de old boss' place. It wuz on de river
side. Miss Jane Warner, she wuz de missus. De place heah now--where all de chillun raise. Mr.
Rhodes got a turpentine still dere now--jes after you pass de house. Dey burn de ginhouse,
de shop, de buggyhouse, de turkeyhouse an' de fowlhouse. Start to set de cornhouse afire, but
my Ma say: 'Please sir, don't burn de cornhouse. Gie it to me an' my chillun.' So dey put de
fire out. I member when dey started to break down de smokehouse door, an' ole Missus come out
an' say: 'Please don't break de door open, I got de key.' So dey quit. I remember when dey
shoot down de hog. I remember when dey shoot de two geese in de yard. Dey choked my Ma. Dey
went to her an' dey say; 'Where is all de white people gold an' silver?' My Ma say she don't
know. 'You does know!' dey say, an' choke her till she couldn't talk. Dey went into de company
room where de ole Miss wuz stayin' an' start tearin' up de bed. Den de captain come an' de
ole Miss say to him: 'Please don't let 'em tear up my bed,' an' de captain went in dere an'
tell 'em 'Come out!'.

De ole Miss wasn't scared. But de young Miss May was sure scared. She was courtin' at de time.
She went off an' shut herself up in a room. De ole Miss ask de captain: 'Please go in an' talk
to de Miss, she so scared'. So he went in an' soon he bring her out. We chillun wasn't scared.
But my brother run under de house. De soldiers went under dere a-pokin' de bayonets into de
ground to try to find where de silver buried, an' dey ran 'cross him. 'What you doin' under
heah?' dey say. 'I'se jes runnin' de chickens out, sir,' he say. 'Well, you kin go on out,'
dey say. 'We aint gwine to hurt you.'

'I remember when dey kill de hog an' cook 'em. Cook on de fire where de little shop been. Cook
'em an' eat 'em. Why didn't dey cook 'em on de stove in de house? Didn't have no stoves. Jes
had to cook on de fireplace. Had an oven to fit in de fireplace. I remember when my Ma saw
de Yankees comin' dat mornin' she grab de sweet potatoes dat been in dat oven and throw 'em
in de barrel of feathers dat stayed by de kitchen fireplace. Jes a barrel to hold chicken feathers
when you pick 'em. Dat's all we had to eat dat day. Dem Yankees put de meat in de sack an'
go on off. It was late den, 'bout dusk. I remember how de Missus bring us all 'round de fire.
It was dark den.

'Well chillun,' she say, 'I is sorry to tell you, but de Yankees has carry off your Ma. I don't
know if you'll ever see her any mo.' Den we chillun all start cryin.' We still a-sittin' dere
when my Ma come back. She say she slip behind, an' slip behind, slip behind, an' when she come
to a little pine thicket by de side of de road, she dart into it, drop de sack of meat dey
had her carryin, an' start out for home. When we had all make over her, we say to her den:
'Well why didn't you bring de sack of meat 'long wid you?'

Dey took de top off ole Marse John carriage, put meat in it, an' made him pull it same as a
horse. Carry him way down to Lawtonville, had to pull it through de branch an' all. Got de
rock-a-way back though--an' de ole man. I remember dat well. Had to mend up de ole rock-a-way.
An' it made de ole man sick. He keep on sick, sick, until he died. I remember how he'd say:
'Don't you all worry'. An' he'd go out in de orchard. Dey'd say: 'Don't bother him! Jes let
him be! He want to pray!' Atter a while he died an' dey buried him. His name was John Stafford.
Dey Massa wasn't dere. I guess he was off to de war.

"But after freedom was de time when dey suffered more dan before. Dese chillun don't know how
dey blessed. My Ma cooked for de white folks for one year after freedom. I remember dey cook
bread, an' dey ain't have nuthin' to eat on it. Was thankful for a cornbread hoecake baked
in de fireplace. But dey had some things. Had buried some meat, an' some syrup. An' dey had
some corn. My Ma had saved de cornhouse. De rice burn up in de ginhouse. After freedom, dey
had to draw de best thread out of de old clothes an' weave it again. Ole Miss had give my Ma
a good moss mattress. But de Yankees had carry dat off. Rip it up, throw out de moss, an' put
meat in it. Fill it full of meat. I remember she had a red striped shawl. One of de Yankee
take dat an' start to put in under his saddle for a saddle cloth. My brother go up to him an'
say: 'Please sir, don't carry my Ma's shawl. Dat de only one she got.' So he give it back to
him. To keep warm at night, dey had to make dere pallet down by de fire; when all wood burn
out, put on another piece. Didn't have nuthin' on de bed to sleep on.

"I remember when de ole Miss used to have to make soap, out of dese red oaks. Burn de wood,
an' catches de ashes. Put de ashes in a barrel wid a trough under it, an' pour de water through
de ashes. If de lyewater dat come out could cut a feather, it was strong.

"Used to weave cloth after freedom. Used to give a brooch (hank) or two to weave at night.
I'se sometimes thread de needle for my Ma, or pick out de seed out de cotton, an' make it into
rolls to spin. Sometimes I'd work de foot pedal for my Ma. Den dey'd warp de thread. If she
want to dye it, she'd dye it. She'd get indigo--you know dat bush--an' boil it. It was kinder
blue. It would make good cloth. Sometimes, de cloth wuz kinder strip, one strip of white, an'
one of blue. I remember how dey'd warp de thread across de yard after it wuz dyed, an' I remember
seem' my Ma throw dat shuttle through an' weave dat cloth. I member when de ole Miss made my
Mamma two black dresses to wear through de winter. She'd keep 'em clean; had two so she could
change.

"I don't know why dey didn't burn de house. Must have been 'cause de captain wuz along. De
house dere now. One of de chimney down. I don't think dey ever put it up again. Colored folks
are in it now.

"I never did know my Pa. He was sold off to Texas when I was young. My mother would say, 'Well,
chillun, you aint never known your Pa. Joe Smart carry him off to Texas when he went. I don't
guess you'll ever see him.' My father wuz name Charles Smart. He never did come back. Joe Smart
come back once, an' say dat our father is dead. He say our Pa had three horses an' he want
one of them to be sent to us chillun heah; but no arrangements had been made to get it to us.
You see he had chillun out dere, too.

"Atter freedom, my Ma plow many a day, same as a man, for us chillun. She work for ole man
Bill Mars. Den she marry again. Part of de time dey work for Mr. Benny Lawton, de one-arm man,
what lost his arm in de war. Dese chillun don't know what hard times is. Dey don't know how
to preciate our blessings.

  =Source:= Adeline Grey, 82-year old resident of Luray, S.C.

  Project #1655
  Everett R. Pierce
  Columbia, S.C.

  INTERVIEW WITH FANNIE GRIFFIN
  EX-SLAVE 94 YEARS.

"You wants me to tell you all what I 'members 'bout slavery in slavery time? Well ma'am, I
was just a young gal then and I's a old woman now, nigh on to ninety-four years old; I might
be forgot some things, but I'll tell you what I 'members best.

My massa, Massa Joe Beard, was a good man, but he wasn't one of de richest men. He only had
six slaves, three men and three women, but he had a big plantation and would borrow slaves
from his brother-in-law on de 'joining plantation, to help wid de crops.

I was de youngest slave, so Missy Grace, dats Massa Joe's wife, keep me in de house most of
de time, to cook and keep de house cleaned up. I milked de cow and worked in de garden too.
My massa was good to all he slaves, but Missy Grace was mean to us. She whip us a heap of times
when we ain't done nothing bad to be whip for. When she go to whip me, she tie my wrists together
wid a rope and put that rope thru a big staple in de ceiling and draw me up off de floor and
give me a hundred lashes. I think 'bout my old mammy heap of times now and how I's seen her
whipped, wid de blood dripping off of her.

All that us slaves know how to do, was to work hard. We never learn to read and write nor we
never had no church to go to, only sometimes de white folks let us go to their church, but
we never jine in de singing, we just set and listen to them preach and pray. De graveyard was
right by de church and heap of de colored people was scared to go by it at night, they say
they see ghosts and hants, and sperits but I ain't never see none, don't believe there is none.
I more scared of live people than I is dead ones; dead people ain't gwine to harm you.

Our massa and missus was good to us when we was sick; they send for de doctor right off and
de doctor do all he could for us, but he ain't had no kind of medicine to give us 'cepting
sperits of turpentine, castor oil, and a little blue mass. They ain't had all kinds of pills
and stuff then, like they has now, but I believe we ain't been sick as much then as we do now.
I never heard of no consumption them days; us had pneumonia sometime tho'.

You wants to know if we had any parties for pastime? Well ma'am, not many. We never was allowed
to have no parties nor dances, only from Christmas Day to New Year's eve. We had plenty good
things to eat on Christmas Day and Santa Claus was good to us too. We'd have all kinds of frolics
from Christmas to New Years but never was allowed to have no fun after that time.

I 'members one time I slip off from de missus and go to a dance and when I come back, de dog
in de yard didn't seem to know me and he bark and wake de missus up and she whip me something
awful. I sho didn't go to no more dances widout asking her. De patarollers (patrollers) would
ketch you too, if you went out after dark. We most times stay at home at night and spin cloth
to make our clothes. We make all our clothes, and our shoes was handmade too. We didn't have
fancy clothes like de people has now. I likes it better being a slave, we got along better
then, than we do now. We didn't have to pay for everything we had.

De worst time we ever had was when de Yankee men come thru. We had heard they was coming and
de missus tell us to put on a big pot of peas to cook, so we put some white peas in a big pot
and put a whole ham in it, so that we'd have plenty for de Yankees to eat. Then when they come,
they kicked de pot over and de peas went one way and de ham another.

De Yankees 'stroyed 'most everything we had. They come in de house and told de missus to give
them her money and jewels. She started crying and told them she ain't got no money or jewels,
'cepting de ring she had on her finger. They got awfully mad and started 'stroying everything.
They took de cows and horses, burned de gin, de barn, and all de houses 'cept de one massa
and missus was living in. They didn't leave us a thing 'cept some big hominy and two banks
of sweet potatoes. We chipped up some sweet potatoes and dried them in de sun, then we parched
them and ground them up and that's all we had to use for coffee. It taste pretty good too.
For a good while we just live on hominy and coffee.

No ma'am, we ain't had no celebration after we was freed. We ain't know we was free 'til a
good while after. We ain't know it 'til General Wheeler come thru and tell us. After that,
de massa and missus let all de slaves go 'cepting me; they kept me to work in de house and
de garden." My master said I was 14 years old de August coming after freedom.

"My master was Billy Scott who had seven or eight hundred acres of land, and 48 slaves. He
wouldn't have no white overseers, but had some nigger foremen dat sometimes whipped de niggers,
and de master would whip dem, too. He was a fair man, not so good and not so mean. He give
us poor quarters to live in, and sometimes plenty to eat, but sometimes we went hungry. He
had a big garden, plenty cows, hogs and sheep. De most we had ter eat, was corn, collards,
peas, turnip-greens and home-made molasses. We had wheat bread on Sundays. It was made from
flour grind at our own mill. We didn't have but one day off, that was Christmas Day and den
we had to grind our axes.

"We made our clothes out of cotton and wool mixed, made dem at home wid our own cards and spinning
wheels. We made our shoes out of leather tanned at home, but had to use woolen shoes after
de war, which would wear out and split open in three weeks.

"My daddy was Amos Wilson and mammy was Carline Griffin. I had some brothers and sisters. When
freedom come, de master come to us and told us de damn Yankees done freed us, 'what you gwinter
do? If you want ter stay on wid me, I will give you work.' We stayed fer awhile.

"The patrollers caught me once when I run off. I run fast and lost my hat and dey got it. I
saw some slaves sold on de block. Dey was put in a ring and sold by crying out de price. We
didn't learn to read and write, not allowed to. De niggers went to de corn shuckings and was
give pumpkin custards to eat and liquor. Dey wasn't allowed to dance, but sometimes we had
secret dances, shut up in de house so de master couldn't hear us.

"After de war, we went hunting and fishing on Sundays. We never had Saturday afternoons off.
We killed wild deer and other things. Once de master killed 14 squirrels in three quarters of hour.

"We raised our own tobacco, the master did, for home use. Most always a small patch was planted.

"De master once saw ghosts, he come from his sisters and passed de graveyard and saw 9 cows
with no heads. His horse jest flew home. Most white folks didn't believe in ghosts, but dat
is one time de master believed he saw some.

"I went wid de Red Shirts, belonged to de company and went to meetings wid dem. I voted fer
Hampton. Befo' dat, de Ku Klux had bad niggers dodging like birds in de woods. Dey caught some
and threw dem on de ground and whipped dem, but de master say he don't know nothing 'bout it
as he was asleep. Dey caught a nigger preacher once and made him dance, put him in muddy water
and walloped him around in de mud.

"Once seven Indians come in our neighborhood an call fer meat, meal and salt. Dere was three
men and four women. Dey cooked all night, murmuring something all de time. Next morning three
squirrels was found up a tree, and de Indians shot 'em down wid bow and arrow.

"One time I saw horses froze to death. Dey couldn't get dere breath, and de people took warm
water and wash dere foreheads. I was a small boy den. My master had 46 guineas.

"I married Nancy Robinson who belonged to Robert Calmes. She was living at de Gillam place
near Rich Hill.

"We used to ask a riddle like this: Love I stand, Love I sit, Love I hold in my right hand.
What is it? It was made up when an old woman had a little dog named 'Love'. She killed it and
put a part of it, after it was baked, in her stockings; part in her shoes; part in back of
her dress, and part in her gloves. A nigger was going to be hung the next Friday, and told
if he guess the riddle he would be turned loose. He couldn't guess it, but was turned loose anyway.

"I think Abe Lincoln might ter done good, but he had us all scared to death, took our mules
and burned our places. Don't know anything about Jeff Davis. Booker Washington is all right.

"I joined de church when 28 years old, because I thought it was right. Wanted to git right
and git to God's Kingdom. I think everybody ought to join de church.

"O' course I rather it not be slavery time, but I got more ter eat den dan now. Den we didn't
know what ter do, but now we perish ter death." I was a slave of Alec Grigsby. He was a fair
marster, but his wife was awful mean to us. She poked my head in a rail fence once and whipped
me hard with a whip. I lived in that section until eight years ago, when I come to Newberry
to live with my daughters.

"I worked hard in cotton fields, milked cows and helped about the marster's house. When the
bush-whackers and patrollers come around dere, us niggers suffered lots with beatings. Some
of dem was killed.

"The old folks had corn-shuckings, frolics, pender pullings, and quiltings. They had quiltings
on Saturday nights, with eats and frolics. When dey danced, dey always used fiddles to make
the music.

"The men folks hunted much: doves, partridges, wild turkeys, deer, squirrels and rabbits. Sometimes
dey caught rabbits in wooden boxes, called 'rabbit-gums'. It had a trap in the middle, which
was set at night, with food in it, and when the rabbit bite, the tray sprung, and the opening
at the front was closed so he couldn't get out.

"The marster had a big whiskey still, and sold lots of liquor to people around there."

  =Source:= Peggy Grigsby (106), Newberry, S.C.
          Interviewer: G.L. Summer, Newberry, S.C. 5/10/37.

  Project #1655
  W.W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S.C.

  VIOLET GUNTHARPE
  EX-SLAVE 82 YEARS OLD.

"I was born a slave in de Rocky Mount part of Fairfield County, up close to Great Falls. I
hear them falls a roarin' now and I see them waters flashin' in de sunshine when I close my eyes.

My pappy name Robert and my mammy name Phyllis. They b'long to de old time 'ristocats, de Gaither
family. Does you know Miss Mattie Martin, which was de secretary of Governor Ansel? Dat one
of my young mistresses and another is dat pretty red headed girl in de telegraph office at
Winnsboro, dat just sit dere and pass out lightnin' and 'lectricity over de wires wheresomever
she take a notion. Does you know them? Well, befo' their mama marry Marster Starke Martin,
her was Sally Gaither, my young missus in slavery time. Her die and go to Heaven last year,
please God.

Marster Richard was a good marster to his slaves, though he took no foolishness and worked
you from sun to sun. 'Spect him had 'bout ten family of slaves and 'bout fifty big and little
slaves altogether on dat plantation befo' them Yankees come and make a mess out of their lives.

Honey, us wasn't ready for de big change dat come! Us had no education, no land, no mule, no
cow, not a pig, nor a chicken, to set up house keeping. De birds had nests in de air, de foxes
had holes in de ground, and de fishes had beds under de great falls, but us colored folks was
left widout any place to lay our heads.

De Yankees sho' throwed us in de briar patch but us not bred and born dere lak de rabbit. Us
born in a good log house. De cows was down dere in de canebrakes to give us milk, de hogs was
fattenin' on hickory nuts, acorns, and shucked corn, to give us meat and grease; de sheep wid
their wool, and de cotton in de gin house was dere to give us clothes. De horses and mules
was dere to help dat corn and cotton, but when them Yankees come and take all dat away, all
us had to thank them for, was a hungry belly, and freedom. Sumpin' us had no more use for then,
than I have today for one of them airplanes I hears flyin' 'round de sky, right now.

Well, after ravagin' de whole country side, de army got across old Catawba and left de air
full of de stink of dead carcasses and de sky black wid turkey buzzards. De white women was
weepin' in hushed voices, de niggers on de place not knowin' what to do next, and de piccaninnies
suckin' their thumbs for want of sumpin' to eat; mind you 'twas winter time too.

Lots of de chillun die, as did de old folks, while de rest of us scour de woods for hickory
nuts, acorns, cane roots, and artichokes, and seine de river for fish. De worst nigger men
and women follow de army. De balance settle down wid de white folks and simmer in their misery
all thru de spring time, 'til plums, mulberries, and blackberries come, and de shad come up
de Catawba River.

My mammy stay on wid de same marster 'til I was grown, dat is fifteen, and Thad got to lookin'
at me, meek as a sheep and dumb as a calf. I had to ask dat nigger, right out, what his 'tentions
was, befo' I get him to bleat out dat he love me. Him name Thad Guntharpe. I glance at him
one day at de pigpen when I was sloppin' de hogs, I say: 'Mr. Guntharpe, you follows me night
and mornin' to dis pigpen; do you happen to be in love wid one of these pigs? If so, I'd like
to know which one 'tis; then sometime I come down here by myself and tell dat pig 'bout your
'fections.' Thad didn't say nothin' but just grin. Him took de slop bucket out of my hand and
look at it, all 'round it, put upside down on de ground, and set me down on it; then he fall
down dere on de grass by me and blubber out and warm my fingers in his hands. I just took pity
on him and told him mighty plain dat he must limber up his tongue and ask sumpin', say what
he mean, wantin' to visit them pigs so often. Us carry on foolishness 'bout de little boar
shoat pig and de little sow pig, then I squeal in laughter over how he scrouge so close; de
slop bucket tipple over and I lost my seat. Dat ever remain de happiest minute of my eighty-two
years.

After us marry, us moved on de Johnson Place and Thad plow right on a farm where dere use to
be a town of Grimkeville. I was lonely down dere all de time. I's halfway scared to death of
de skeeters 'bout my legs in day time and old Captain Thorn's ghost in de night time. You never
heard 'bout dat ghost? If you went to school to Mr. Luke Ford sure he must of tell you 'bout
de time a slave boy killed his marster, old Captain Thorn. He drag and throwed his body in
de river.

When they find his body they ketch John, de slave boy, give him a trial by six white men, find
him guilty and he confess. Then they took de broad axe, cut off his head, mount it on a pole
and stick it up on de bank where they find old Captain Thorn. Dat pole and head stay dere 'til
it rot down. Captain Thorn's ghost 'pear and disappear 'long dat river bank ever since in de
night time. My pappy tell me he see it and see de boy's ghost too.

De ghost rode de minds of many colored folks. Some say dat de ghost had a heap to do wid deaths
on dat river, by drowning. One sad thing happen; de ghost and de malaria run us off de river.
Us moved to Marster Starke P. Martin's place. Him was a settin' at a window in de house one
night and somebody crept up dere and fill his head full of buck-shot. Marster Starke was Miss
Sallie's husband, and Miss Mattie and Miss May's papa. Oh, de misery of dat night to my white
folks! Who did it? God knows! They sent poor Henry Nettles to de penitentiary for it, but most
white folks and all de colored didn't believe he done it. White folks say a white man done
it, but our color know it was de work of dat slave boy's ghost.

My white folks come here from Maryland, I heard them say. They fought in de Revolution, set
up a tanyard when they got here, and then when cotton come, my marster's pappy was de fust
to put up a hoss-gin and screw pit in Rocky Mount section. I glories in their blood, but dere
none by de name 'round here now, 'cept colored folks.

Marster Wood you read a heap of books. Did you ever read 'bout foots of ghosts? They got foots
and can jump and walk. No they don't run, why? 'Cause seem lak their foots is too big. Dat
night Marster Starke Martin was killed it was a snowin'. De whole earth was covered wid a white
blanket. It snowed and snowed and snowed. Us measure how big dat snow was next mornin' and
how big dat ghost track. De snow was seven inches, and a little bit deep. De ghost track on
top de snow big as a elephant's. Him or she or it's tracks 'pear to drap wid de snow and just
rise up out de snow and disappear. De white folks say 'twas a man wid bags on his foots, but
they never found de bags, so I just believe it was ghost instigate by de devil to drap down
dere and make all dat misery for my white folks.

Dere's a great day a comin' when de last trumpet will sound and de devil and all de ghosts
will be chained and they can't romp 'round de old river and folks houses in de night time and
bring sorrow and pain in de wake of them big tracks."

  Project #-1655
  Gyland H. Hamlin
  Charleston, S.C.

  FOLKLORE

  INTERVIEW WITH EX-SLAVE

"Good a'ternoon, suh. Yassuh, I'ze gittin' on up in de years. I be eighty-one year ole nex'
May. I name John Hamilton an' I lib at sickty-t'ree Amherst Street.

"I 'member sumptin' 'bout slabery. I wuz 'bout big as dat gal gwine dere w'en de Fed'rul war
broke out," indicating a child, passing down the street who appeared to be about eight years old.

"I belong' to Maussa Seabrook, an' he lib at W'ite Point, ten mile from Adams Run. De Maussa,
he been daid but he got some boys. Dem boys all scatter', dough. Yassuh, ole Maussa treat us
good. I not big 'nough to wuk, I jus' a li'l boy den. My fadder name' Rhode Hamilton, an' 'e
hab two acre to wuk. Dere didn't been no hoss, an' 'e grub it wid de hoe.

"Some slabes no good an' not satisfy fo' tuh wuk. Dey run 'way fum de plantation. Dere been
big dawgs high as street-cyar, yassuh, high as dat street-cyar. Dey name' nigger-dawg an' dey
trace nigger an' put dem nigger back to wuk. Dere been Yankee man name' Tom Cudry. I kin sho'
de house 'e been in. He say 'e tired see colored mans wuk hard an' git nuttin'. He put colored
mans on banjoo (vendue) table an' 'e be free.

"I didn't be marry till I git in my t'irty year. My wife, she 'bout sickty-fibe year ole'.
We got fibe chillun libbin', 'bout twelbe haid in all. Grand-chillun? 'Bout sebben haid an'
one gal. Hab great grand-chillun, too.

"I ain't been know nuttin' 'bout jailhouse. Ain't see a jailhouse in my life. I hab to look
all day to find one in Charleston, an' don't know where 'bouts de court-house. Ain't gwine
to jailhouse. Nobody hab to 'rest me no how.

"I be a Babtis'. I babtize' in de ribber, de Edisto ribber. I tryin' git to Hebben. Hebben
be glory. Yassuh, Hebben be glory. You got to lub all God's chillun to git dere. God send w'ite
folks an' colored folks, an' dey mus' he'p each odder an' wuk togedder. Dey got to lib in union.
Yassuh, got to lib in union to git to Hebben.

"I 'pend on de w'ite folks to he'p me. Dese pore colored folks ain't got nuttin'. Nawsuh, I
ain't be too ole to wuk an' mek a honest libbin' like lot o' dem no good nigger what too stiff
fo' to speak. I wuk some flower-yard fo' some w'ite folks, an' I wuk a li'l gyarden.

"Yassuh, I hol' up berry well, but I can't see at night w'en de sun go down. My sight gone
back den. I got git 'long now.

"You gimme a nickel or dime? T'ank you, suh. T'ank you kin'ly."

  =Source:= Personal interview with John Hamilton, colored,
          of 63 Amherst Street, Charleston, S.C.

  Project #-1655
  Jessie A. Butler
  Charleston, S.C.

  FOLKLORE

  OLD SUSAN HAMLIN--EX SLAVE

  (Verbatim Conversation)

Old Susan Hamlin, one hundred and four years old, was strolling down lower King St., about
a mile from where she lives, when she was met by a white "friend," and the following conversation
took place:

"How are you, Susan, do you remember me?"

"Yes, Ma'am, I 'member yo face, Missus, but I can't 'member yo name. I gettin' ole. Dis eye
(touching the right one) leabin' me. Ole age you know. Somet'ing got tuh gie way."

"Don't you remember I came to see you one morning, and you told me all about old times?"

"Yes, Ma'am, (with enthusiasm) come tuh see me 'gain, I tell you some mo'. I like tuh talk
'bout dem days; 'taint many people left now kin tell 'bout dat time. Eberybody dead. I goes
'round tuh de ole house, an' I t'ink 'bout all dem little chillen I is nuss, (calling them
by name) dey all sleep, all sleep in de groun'. Nobody lef' but ole Susan. All my fambly, de
massa, de missus, all de little chillen, all sleep. Only me one lef', only ole Susan. Sometime
I wonder how it is. I ober a hund'ed, I stahtin' (starting) tuh forgit de years."

"Tell me one thing, Susan, you have lived a long time, do you think the young people of today
are better or worse than in the old days?"

"Well, Missus, some is wuss but not all. Some stray jus' like dey always done but dey'll come
back. I stray 'way myself but dey'll come back jus' like I did. Gib um time dey come back.
I git converted you know."

"Yes, you told me about that."

"Yes, Ma'am, I see de Sabior. He show me hoe He die. I nebber forget dat day. Dere He hang,--so--(with
arms outstretched) an' He show me de great brightness, an' He show me de big sin on my back,
black as dat cyar (car). Den I pray an' I pray, an' it fall off. Den I praise Him. Nebber since
dat day is I forget what I see. When I see dat reconcile Sabior countenance,--oh!--I nebber
forget. No, Ma'am. I nebber forget dat reconcile countenance. As I tell yuh, I stray 'way,
but not after I see dat reconcile countenance. I pray and praise Him. Sometimes all by myself
I get so happy, jes t'inkin' on Him. I cyant forget all dat He done fuh me."

"People tell me I ought not walk 'round by myself so. I tell um I don't care where I drop.
I 'member when my ma was dyin' I beg um not to leabe me, she say: 'Wha' I got yuh, wha' I want
tuh stay yuh fuh? I want tuh go, I want tuh see muh Jesus.' I know what she mean now. I don't
care if I drop in de street, I don't care if I drop in my room. I don't care where I drop,
I ready tuh go."

"All you got tuh do is libe right, yuh got tuh libe (live) de life. What is de life?--Purity.--What
is Purity?--Righteousness.--What is Righteousness?--Tuh do de right t'ing.--Libe right,--pray
an' praise. Beliebe on de delibrin (delivering) Sabior. Trus' Him. He lead yuh. He show yuh
de way. Dat all yuh got tuh do. Beliebe--pray--praise. Ebery night befo' I lay on my bed I
git on my knees an' look up tuh Him. Soon I wake in de mornin' I gibe Him t'anks. Eben sometime
in de day I git on my knees an' pray. He been good to me all dese years. He aint forget me.
I aint been sick for ober twenty-five years. Good t'ing too, nobody left tuh tek care of me.
Dey all gone. But I don't care now, jus' so I kin see my Jesus when I gone."

"I goin' down now tuh see my people I use to cook fuh. I too ole now tuh cook. I use tuh cook
fine. Come tuh see me again, missus, come tuh see de ole monkey, I tell yuh mo' 'bout dose
times. You know I kin 'member dem when I been a big girl, most grown, when de bombardment come
ober de city."

  =Source:= Writer's conversation with Susan Hamlin, 17
          Henrietta Street, Charleston. S.C.

  Project#-1655
  Jessie A. Butler
  Charleston, S.C.

  Approx. 1739 Words

  INTERVIEW WITH EX-SLAVE

On July 6th, I interviewed Susan Hamlin, ex-slave, at 17 Henrietta street, Charleston, S. C.
She was sitting just inside of the front door, on a step leading up to the porch, and upon
hearing me inquire for her she assumed that I was from the Welfare office, from which she had
received aid prior to its closing. I did not correct this impression, and at no time did she
suspect that the object of my visit was to get the story of her experience as a slave. During
our conversation she mentioned her age. "Why that's very interesting, Susan," I told her, "If
you are that old you probably remember the Civil War and slavery days." "Yes Ma'am, I been
a slave myself," she said, and told me the following story:

"I kin remember some things like it was yesterday, but I is 104 years old now, and age is starting
to get me, I can't remember everything like I use to. I getting old, old. You know I is old
when I been a grown woman when the Civil War broke out. I was hired out then, to a Mr. McDonald,
who lived on Atlantic Street, and I remembers when de first shot was fired, and the shells
went right over de city. I got seven dollars a month for looking after children, not taking
them out, you understand, just minding them. I did not get the money, Mausa got it." "Don't
you think that was fair?" I asked. "If you were fed and clothed by him, shouldn't he be paid
for your work?" "Course it been fair," she answered, "I belong to him and he got to get something
to take care of me."

"My name before I was married was Susan Calder, but I married a man name Hamlin. I belonged
to Mr. Edward Fuller, he was president of the First National Bank. He was a good man to his
people till de Lord took him. Mr. Fuller got his slaves by marriage. He married Miss Mikell,
a lady what lived on Edisto Island, who was a slave owner, and we lived on Edisto on a plantation.
I don't remember de name cause when Mr. Fuller got to be president of de bank we come to Charleston
to live. He sell out the plantation and say them (the slaves) that want to come to Charleston
with him could come and them what wants to stay can stay on the island with his wife's people.
We had our choice. Some is come and same is stay, but my ma and us children come with Mr. Fuller.

We lived on St. Philip street. The house still there, good as ever, I go 'round there to see
it all de time; the cistern still there too, where we used to sit 'round and drink the cold
water, and eat, and talk and laugh. Mr. Fuller have lots of servants and the ones he didn't
need hisself he hired out. The slaves had rooms in the back, the ones with children had two
rooms and them that didn't have any children had one room, not to cook in but to sleep in.
They all cooked and ate downstairs in the hall that they had for the colored people. I don't
know about slavery but I know all the slavery I know about, the people was good to me. Mr.
Fuller was a good man and his wife's people been grand people, all good to their slaves. Seem
like Mr. Fuller just git his slaves so he could be good to dem. He made all the little colored
chillen love him. If you don't believe they loved him what they all cry, and scream, and holler
for when dey hear he dead? 'Oh, Mausa dead my Mausa dead, what I going to do, my Mausa dead.'
Dey tell dem t'aint no use to cry, dat can't bring him back, but de chillen keep on crying.
We used to call him Mausa Eddie but he named Mr. Edward Fuller, and he sure was a good man.

"A man come here about a month ago, say he from de Government, and dey send him to find out
'bout slavery. I give him most a book, and what he give me? A dime. He ask me all kind of questions.
He ask me dis and he ask me dat, didn't de white people do dis and did dey do dat but Mr. Fuller
was a good man, he was sure good to me and all his people, dey all like him, God bless him,
he in de ground now but I ain't going to let nobody lie on him. You know he good when even
the little chillen cry and holler when he dead. I tell you dey couldn't just fix us up any
kind of way when we going to Sunday School. We had to be dressed nice, if you pass him and
you ain't dress to suit him he send you right back and say tell your ma to see dat you dress
right. Dey couldn't send you out in de cold barefoot neither. I 'member one day my ma want
to send me wid some milk for her sister-in-law what live 'round de corner. I fuss cause it
cold and say 'how you going to send me out wid no shoe, and it cold?' Mausa hear how I talking
and turn he back and laugh, den he call to my ma to gone in de house and find shoe to put on
my feet and don't let him see me barefoot again in cold weather.

When de war start going good and de shell fly over Charleston he take all us up to Aiken for
protection. Talk 'bout marching through Georgia, day sure march through Aiken, soldiers was
everywhere.

"My ma had six children, three boys and three girls, but I de only one left, all my white people
and all de colored people gone, not a soul left but me. I ain't been sick in 25 years. I is
near my church and I don't miss service any Sunday, night or morning. I kin walk wherever I
please, I kin walk to de Battery if I want to. The Welfare use to help me but dey shut down
now, I can't find out if dey going to open again or not. Miss (Mrs.) Buist and Miss Pringle,
dey help me when I can go there but all my own dead."

"Were most of the masters kind?" I asked. "Well you know," she answered, "times den was just
like dey is now, some was kind and some was mean; heaps of wickedness went on just de same
as now. All my people was good people. I see some wickedness and I hear 'bout all kinds of
t'ings but you don't know whether it was lie or not. Mr. Fuller been a Christian man."

"Do you think it would have been better if the Negroes had never left Africa?" was the next
question I asked. "No Ma'am," (emphatically) dem heathen didn't have no religion. I tell you
how I t'ink it is. The Lord made t'ree nations, the white, the red and the black, and put dem
in different places on de earth where dey was to stay. Dose black ignoramuses in Africa forgot
God, and didn't have no religion and God blessed and prospered the white people dat did remember
him and sent dem to teach de black people even if dey have to grab dem and bring dem into bondage
till dey learned some sense. The Indians forgot God and dey had to be taught better so dey
land was taken away from dem. God sure bless and prosper de white people and He put de red
and de black people under dem so dey could teach dem and bring dem into sense wid God. Dey
had to get dere brains right, and honor God, and learn uprightness wid God cause ain't He make
you, and ain't His Son redeem you and save you wid His precious blood. You kin plan all de
wickedness you want and pull hard as you choose but when the Lord mek up His mind you is to
change, He can change you dat quick (snapping her fingers) and easy. You got to believe on
Him if it tek bondage to bring you to your knees.

You know I is got converted. I been in Big Bethel (church) on my knees praying under one of
de preachers. I see a great, big, dark pack on my back, and it had me all bent over and my
shoulders drawn down, all hunch up. I look up and I see de glory, I see a big beautiful light,
a great light, and in de middle is de Sabior, hanging so (extending her arms) just like He
died. Den I gone to praying good, and I can feel de sheckles (shackles) loose up and moving
and de pack fall off. I don't know where it went to, I see de angels in de Heaven, and hear
dem say 'Your sins are forgiven.' I scream and fell off so. (Swoon.) When I come to dey has
laid me out straight and I know I is converted cause you can't see no such sight and go on
like you is before. I know I is still a sinner but I believe in de power of God and I trust
his Holy name. Den dey put me wid de seekers but I know I is already saved."

"Did they take good care of the slaves when their babies were born?" she was asked. "If you
want chickens for fat (to fatten) you got to feed dem," she said with a smile, "and if you
want people to work dey got to be strong, you got to feed dem and take care of dem too. If
dey can't work it come out of your pocket. Lots of wickedness gone on in dem days, just as
it do now, some good, some mean, black and white, it just dere nature, if dey good dey going
to be kind to everybody, if dey mean dey going to be mean to everybody. Sometimes chillen was
sold away from dey parents. De Mausa would come and say "Where Jennie," tell um to put clothes
on dat baby, I want um. He sell de baby and de ma scream and holler, you know how dey carry
on. Geneally (generally) dey sold it when de ma wasn't dere. Mr. Fuller didn't sell none of
us, we stay wid our ma's till we grown. I stay wid my ma till she dead.

"You know I is mix blood, my grandfather bin a white man and my grandmother a mulatto. She
been marry to a black so dat how I get fix like I is. I got both blood, so how I going to quarrel
wid either side?"

  =Source:= Interview with *Susan Hamlin, 17 Henrietta Street.

     NOTE * Susan lives with a mulatto family of the better type. The
     name is Hamlin not Hamilton, and her name prior to her marriage was
     Calder not Collins. I paid particular attention to this and had
     them spell the names for me. I would judge Susan to be in the late
     nineties but she is wonderfully well preserved. She now claims to
     be 104 years old.

  S-260-264-N
  Project #1885
  Augustus Ladson
  Charleston, S.C.

  No. Words: 1195

  EX-SLAVE 101 YEARS OF AGE

  HAS NEVER SHAKEN HANDS SINCE 1863

  WAS ON KNEES SCRUBBING WHEN FREEDOM GUN FIRED

I'm a hund'ed an' one years old now, son. De only one livin' in my crowd from de days I wuz
a slave. Mr. Fuller, my master, who was president of the Firs' National Bank, owned the fambly
of us except my father. There were eight men an' women with five girls an' six boys workin'
for him. Most o' them wus hired out. De house in which we stayed is still dere with de cisterns
an' slave quarters. I always go to see de old home which is on St. Phillip Street.

My ma had t'ree boys an' t'ree girls who did well at their work. Hope Mikell, my eldest bredder,
an' James wus de shoemaker. William Fuller, son of our master, wus de bricklayer. Margurite
an' Catharine wuz de maids an' look at de children.

My pa b'long to a man on Edisto Island. Frum what he said, his master was very mean. Pa real
name wus Adam Collins but he took his master' name; he wus de coachman. Pa did supin one day
an his master whipped him. De next day which wuz Monday, Pa carry him 'bout four miles frum
home in de woods an' give him de same 'mount of lickin' he wus given on Sunday. He tied him
to a tree an' unhitched de horse so it couldn't git tie-up an' kill a self. Pa den gone to
de landin' an' catch a boat dat wus comin' to Charleston wood fa'm products. He wus permitted
by his master to go to town on errands, which helped him to go on de boat without bein' question'.
When he got here he gone on de water-front an' ax for a job on a ship so he could git to de
North. He got de job an' sail' wood de ship. Dey search de island up an' down for him wood
houndogs en w'en it wus t'ought he wus drowned, 'cause dey track him to de river, did dey give
up. One of his master' friend gone to New York en went in a store w'ere Pas wus employed as
a clerk. He reconize' pa is easy is pa reconize' him. He gone back home an' tell pa master
who know den dat pa wusn't comin' back an' before he died he sign' papers dat pa wus free.
Pa ma wus dead an' he come down to bury her by de permission of his master' son who had promised
no ha'm would come to him, but dey wus fixin' plans to keep him, so he went to the Work House
an' ax to be sold 'cause any slave could sell e self if e could git to de Work House. But it
wus on record down dere so dey couldn't sell 'im an' told him his master' people couldn't hold
him a slave.

People den use to do da same t'ings dey do now. Some marry an' some live together jus' like
now. One t'ing, no minister nebber say in readin' de matrimony "let no man put asounder" 'cause
a couple would be married tonight an' tomorrow one would be taken away en be sold. All slaves
wus married in dere master house, in de livin' room where slaves an' dere missus an' massa
wus to witness de ceremony. Brides use to wear some of de finest dress an' if dey could afford
it, have de best kind of furniture. Your master nor your missus objected to good t'ings.

I'll always 'member Clory, de washer. She wus very high-tempered. She wus a mulatta with beautiful
hair she could sit on; Clory didn't take foolishness frum anybody. One day our missus gone
in de laundry an' find fault with de clothes. Clory didn't do a t'ing but pick her up bodily
an' throw 'er out de door. Dey had to sen' fur a doctor 'cause she pregnant an' less than two
hours de baby wus bo'n. Afta dat she begged to be sold fur she didn't want to kill missus,
but our master ain't nebber want to sell his slaves. But dat didn't keep Clory frum gittin'
a brutal whippin'. Dey whip' 'er until dere wasn't a white spot on her body. Dat wus de worst
I ebber see a human bein' got such a beatin'. I t'ought she wus goin' to die, but she got well
an' didn't get any better but meaner until our master decide it wus bes' to rent her out. She
willingly agree' since she wusn't 'round missus. She hated an' detest' both of them an' all
de fambly.

W'en any slave wus whipped all de other slaves wus made to watch. I see women hung frum de
ceilin' of buildin's an' whipped with only supin tied 'round her lower part of de body, until
w'en dey wus taken down, dere wusn't breath in de body. I had some terribly bad experiences.

Yankees use to come t'rough de streets, especially de Big Market, huntin' those who want to
go to de "free country" as dey call' it. Men an' women wus always missin' an' nobody could
give 'count of dere disappearance. De men wus train' up North fur sojus.

De white race is so brazen. Dey come here an' run de Indians frum dere own lan', but dey couldn't
make dem slaves 'cause dey wouldn't stan' for it. Indians use to git up in trees an' shoot
dem with poison arrow. W'en dey couldn't make dem slaves den dey gone to Africa an' bring dere
black brother an' sister. Dey say 'mong themselves, "we gwine mix dem up en make ourselves
king. Dats e only way we'll git even with de Indians."

All time, night an' day, you could hear men an' women screamin' to de tip of dere voices as
either ma, pa, sister, or brother wus take without any warnin' an' sell. Some time mother who
had only one chile wus separated fur life. People wus always dyin' frum a broken heart.

One night a couple married an' de next mornin' de boss sell de wife. De gal ma got in in de
street an' cursed de white woman fur all she could find. She said: "dat damn white, pale-face
bastard sell my daughter who jus' married las' night," an' other t'ings. The white 'oman treaten'
her to call de police if she didn't stop, but de collud woman said: "hit me or call de police.
I redder die dan to stan' dis any longer! De police took her to de work House by de white woman
orders an' what became of 'er, I never hear.

W'en de war began we wus taken to Aiken, South Ca'lina w'ere we stay' until de Yankees come
t'rough. We could see balls sailin' t'rough de air w'en Sherman wus comin'. Bumbs hit trees
in our yard. W'en de freedom gun wus fired, I wus on my 'nees scrubbin'. Dey tell me I wus
free but I didn't b'lieve it.

In de days of slavery woman wus jus' given time 'nough to deliver dere babies. Dey deliver
de baby 'bout eight in de mornin' an' twelve had too be back to work.

I wus a member of Emmanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church for 67 years. Big Zion, across
de street wus my church before den an' before Old Bethel w'en I lived on de other end of town.

Sence Lincoln shook hands with his assasin who at de same time shoot him, frum dat day I stop
shakin' hands, even in de church, an' you know how long dat wus. I don't b'lieve in kissin'
neider fur all carry dere meannesses. De Master wus betrayed by one of his bosom frien' with
a kiss.

  =Source:=

  Interview with (Mrs.) Susan Hamilton, 17 Henrietta Street, who claims to be
  101 years of age. She has never been sick for twenty years and walks as though
  just 40. She was hired out by her master for seven dollars a month which had to
  be given her master.

  Project #1655
  Stiles M. Scruggs
  Columbia, S.C.

  ANSON HARP
  EX-SLAVE 87 YEARS OLD.

Anson Harp, eighty-seven years old, lives out in the country on Route #3. He still works on
the few acres he owns, raising vegetables for himself and a few baskets to sell. He is a gray-haired,
medium sized man and his geniality is frequently noticed by white and Negro friends who know him.

"I was born in Mississippi in 1850, on a big plantation dat b'long to Master Tom Harp. I can
see dat big rushin' river now, 'ceptin' the mosquitoes. My daddy and mammy b'long to Master
Harp and we live in a cabin 'bout a mile from the big house of my master's home.

"One day when the slaves was choppin' cotton, a strange white man come and watch us, and in
a day or two me and three other chillun was called in the yard of the big house and told we
goin' to git to go wid the stranger. My daddy and mammy and the other chillun's daddy and mammy
all cry when we was put in a big wagon and carried 'way to somewhere.

"We gits plenty of rations on the way and when we gits to Aiken one mornin', we was told we
was close to home and soon we was on the big plantation of Master James Henry Hammond. We find
other boys there, too. We go to the fields and chop cotton, after we rest up. No sah, we wasn't
flogged often. One time the grown men and women was choppin' two rows to our one, and a straw-boss
slave twit us and call us lazy. The white overseer, who was riding by, heard him. He shake
his whip at the straw-boss and tell him: 'The young niggers not yet 'spected to make a half
hand and you do pretty well to 'tend to your own knittin'.

"I been there for a pretty long time befo' I really talks to my great white master, James Henry
Hammond. He not at home much, and when he was home, many big white men wid him 'most every day.

"One Saturday, we always had a half holiday on Saturday, me and my friends 'bout the same age,
was playin' a game on a big lot behind the barn. We quit yellin' and playin' when we see Master
Hammond and three or four white men at the barn. They was lookin' at and talkin' 'bout Master
Hammond's big black stallion. Master Hammond lead him out of the stall and he stand on his
hind feet.

"'Well Senator,' says one big man to Master Hammond, 'I has come a long ways to see this famous
hoss. It's no wonder he was s'lected as a model for the war hoss of General Jackson. I seen
his statue in Washington and Nashville.'

"'And I see him in New Orleans', says another big man, in a fine black slick suit.

"'I 'clare, Governor', says the other big man, also dressed just lak he goin' to church, 'this
grand stallion look today well as he did when I use him for my model'.

"Then they all pat the hoss's nose and stroke him down his mane, and the big buckra hoss steps,
just lak the fine gentlemen he is, back to his stall, while all the big men wave him goodbye!

"No, I not take the name of Hammond after we free, 'cause too many of his slaves do. I kept
the name of my old master and the one my daddy and mammy had. No, I never hear of them in Mississippi.
Lak as not they was sold and taken far away, lak me.

"I was eleven in 1861, when the war start, 'cordin' to my count. Master Hammond was hardly
ever at home no more. He, too, was angry at President Lincoln and I love my master, so I used
to wonder what sort of man the President was. My Master Hammond sure did honor President Davis.
I hear him say once, dat President Davis was a Chesterfield and dat the Lincoln fellow is coarse
and heartless.

"In 1862 I was twelve years old, big for my age, and I do more than half as much work as any
grown slave. At dat time we see many free niggers, and nearly all of them sorry lookin'. They
eat off of slave families, when they could git it.

"I come to Columbia in 1865, after all the niggers everywhere am set free. I work for white
folks 'bout town and when the Freedman's aid was set up, I goes 'long wid some new found friends
to the aid headquarters, and was the last one to be heard. The others got bundles of food and
I see one git a piece of money, too. When I got to the white man in charge, he eye me and zay:
'What damn rebel did you slave for?' I forgot 'bout what I am there for and I say: 'I never
slave for no damn rebel. I work for Governor Hammond and he is the finest buckra that is.'

"Then the aid man say: 'Dat damn rebel Hammond and all lak him yet unhung, should be, and you
wid him. Go let him feed and clothe you! When you come here again maybe you have 'nough sense
to ask for favors decent.' I so mad, I hardly 'member just what happen, 'ceptin' I come 'way
just lak I go, empty handed.

"I am now an old man, as you see, but I am happy to know dat the white folks has always been
ready to help me make a livin'. I now own a patch of ground, where I makes a livin' on the
shares. My boy, a son by my second wife, works it, and he takes care of me now. If I had been
as big, and knowed as much at the start of the war as I did at the end of it, I would surely
have gone to the front wid my white master." I was de son of John and Harriet Harper. I worked
in slavery time and was a slave of John Stanley who was a good man and easy to work with. He
give me a good whipping once when I was a boy. We earned no money but had our place to sleep
and something to eat and wear. We didn't have any gardens, but master had a big plantation
and lots of slaves, and worked a garden himself. I remember he whipped mother once the last
year of the war,--just about to get freedom.

"Master belonged to patrollers, and let dem come on the place and punish the slaves if needed.
They whipped my sister once. He had a house to lock slaves in when dey was bad. He learned
us to read and write. He had a school on de plantation for his niggers. After the days work
was over, we frolicked, and Saturday afternoons we had off to do what we wanted. We had to
go to the white folks church and set in back of de church. Corn shuckings, cotton picking and
carding and quilting, the old folks had when dey had big times and big eats.

"Weddings and funerals of slaves were about like white folks. Some would go walking and singing
to de grave in back of hearse or body. There was a conjurer in our neighborhood who could make
you do what he wanted, sometimes he had folks killed. The Yankees marched through our place,
stole cattle, and meat. We went behind dem and picked up lots dat dey dropped when dey left.
When de war was over, de niggers was promised small farms but dey didn't get 'em.

"I have been preaching many years in colored Methodist churches. I have 7 children, 22 grand-children
but no great-grand-children.

"I think Abraham Lincoln was a great man, and Jefferson Davis, too. Booker Washington was a
grand educator for the colored race. Bishop S.D. Chappell, colored preacher of the A.M.E. church
South, one time president of Allen University at Columbia, S.C. was a great colored man, too.
He went to Nashville, Tenn. as secretary-treasurer of the Sunday School Union.

"I don't believe slavery was good--much better for all of us now.

"I joined the church when I was young, because I thought it right to be a member. I think everybody
ought to join some church, and they ought to join early in life, when quite young."

  =Source:= Rev. Thomas Harper (84), Newberry, S.C., interviewed by:
          G.L. Summer, Newberry, S.C. May 21, 1937.

  Project #1555
  W.W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S.C.

  ABE HARRIS
  EX-SLAVE 74 YEARS OLD.

Abe Harris lives about nine miles southwest of the town of Winnsboro, South Carolina. His home
is a two-room frame house, with rock chimneys of rough masonry at each gable end. It is the
property of Mr. Daniel Heyward. Abe is one-fourth white and this mixture shows in his features.
He is still vigorous and capable of light manual labor.

"My father was Samuel Lyles. My mother's name was Phenie Lyles. My father and mother had fifteen
chillun. I am de only one livin'. De last one to die was my brother, Stocklin, that tended
to de flowers and gardens of people in Winnsboro for many years. He was found dead, one mornin',
in de Fortune Park woods.

"My parents b'long to Captain Tom Lyles, in slavery time. Father was de hog man. He 'tended
to de hogs; didn't pasture them as they do now. Marster had a drove of eighty or more in de
fall of de year befo' hog killin' time. They run 'bout in de woods for acorns and hickory nuts
and my father had to keep up wid them and bring them home. He pen them, feed them, and slop
them at night.

"My white folks was de fust white settlers in de county. De fust one was name Ephram, so I
hear them tell many times. They fought in all wars dat have been fought. My old marster, Tom,
live up 'til de Civil War and although he couldn't walk, he equip and pay a man to go in his
place. When Sherman's men come to de house, he was in bed wid a dislocated hip. They thought
he was shammin', playin' 'possum, so to speak. One of de raiders, a Yankee, come wid a lighted
torch and say: 'Unless you give me de silver, de gold, and de money, I'll burn you alive.'
Him reply: 'I haven't many more years to live. Burn and be damned!' De Yankee was surprised
at his bravery, ordered father to take de torch from under de bed and say: 'You 'bout de bravest
man I ever see in South Carolina.'

"His wife, old Miss Mary, was sister to Congressman Joe Woodward. Deir house and plantation
was out at Buckhead. I was a boy eleven years old and was in de house when he died, in 1874.
He was de oldest person I ever saw, eighty-seven. He had several chillun. Thomas marry Eliza
Peay, de baby of Col. Austin Peay, one of de rich race horse folks. Marse Boykin marry Miss
Cora Dantzler of Orangeburg. Him went to de war. Then Nicholas, Austin, John, and Belton, all
went to de Civil War. Austin was killed at second Bull Run. Marse Nicholas go to Alabama and
become sheriff out dere. Marse John marry Miss Morris and was clerk of court here for twenty-eight
years.

"One of Marse John's sons is Senator Lyles, de cotton buyer here in Winnsboro. De youngest
boy, just a lad at freedom, marry Miss Cora Irby. Two of deir chillun marry Marse Jim and Marse
Bill Mobley in Columbia. De youngest child, Miss Rebecca marry Marse DuBose Ellison in Winnsboro.

"First time I marry Emily Kinlock and had one child. Emily die. Then I marry Lizzie Brown.
Us had six chillun. When Lizzie die, I marry a widow, Frances Young. Us too old to have chillun.

"I live at Rion, S.C. Just piddle 'round wid chickens and garden truck. I sells them to de
stone cutters and de mill people of Winnsboro. I's past de age to work hard, and I'm mighty
sorry dat our race was set free too soon."

  PROJECT #1655
  W.W. Dixon,
  Winnsboro, S.C.

  ELI HARRISON
  EX-SLAVE 87 YEARS.

Eli Harrison lives on a small ten-acre tract of land near Dutchman Creek, in Fairfield County,
approximately seven miles southeast of Winnsboro. The house, which he owns, is a small shack
or shanty constructed of scantlings and slabs. He lives in it alone and does his own cooking.
He has been on the relief roll for the past three years, and ekes out a subsistence on the
charity of the Longtown and Ridgeway people. He is small, wiry, and healthy, weighing about
110 pounds.

"I sure has had a time a finding you! I was up here to Winnsboro befo' dis Welfare Society,
tryin' to git a pension and they ask me who know my age. I tell them a whole lot of people
out of town knows it. Then they ask if anybody in town know my age. I gived in your name. They
say they will take your affidavit for it and tell me to bring dis paper to you.

"I b'long, in slavery, to your step-mother's people, de Harrisons, in Longtown. You 'members
comin' down when I was a young man and you was a boy? Don't you 'member us playin' in de sand
in front of de old Harrison house? Dat house older than you and me. 'Member how I show you
how to call de doodles from de sand? How was it? I just git down on my hands and knees in de
sand and say: 'Doodle, doodle, doodle, doodle, come up your house is afire!' Them black little
doodles would come right up out of de sand to see what gwine on up dere 'bove de sand. Mighty
glad you keeps dat in your mem'ry, 'til dis blessed day.

"I b'long to old Marse Eli Harrison, de grandpa of your step-mother. I was born and raised
on his Wateree River plantation. They called it Harrison Flats, 'til de Southern Power Company
and de Dukes taken over de land, de river, de bull-frogs, de skeeters, whoop owls, and everything
else down here. De Harrisons owned dat place befo' de Revolutionary War, they say. De skeeters
run them out and de folks built a string of houses out of logs, all 'long de roadside and call
it Longtown. Marse John D. tell me dat, and fust thing you know they was callin' it Longtown
and dats what it's called today.

"Old Marse Eli is a quiet man but him have two brudders dat wasn't so quiet. They was Marse
Aaron Burr Harrison and Marse John R. Harrison. All of them have race horses. I, bein' little,
ride de horses in de races at de last. De tracks I ride on? One was up near Great Falls, 'tween
old Marse Strother Fords and de Martin place. De other was out from Simpsons' Turn Out. De
Hamptons used to have horses on dese tracks.

"My mistress name Mary. My young marsters name: Sylvester, Lundsford, David, and John D. They
all dead but de old house is still dere on de roadside and I alone is live to tell de tale.

"Dere's one thing I wants to tell you 'bout old Marse John. Him was 'suaded by de Hamptons,
to buy a big plantation in Mississippi. Him go out dere to raise cattle, race horses, cotton,
sugar cane and niggers. When him die, after so long a time they take him out of his grave.
De Harrisons done built a long, big, rock, family vault in de graveyard here to put all de
dead of de family name in. Well, what you reckon? Why when dat coffin reach Ridgeway and they
find it mighty heavy for just one man's body, they open it and find Marse John's body done
turned to solid rock. What you think of dat? And what you think of dis? They put him in de
vault in de summertime. Dat fall a side show was goin' on in Columbia, showin' a petrified
man, you had to pay twenty-five cents to go in and see it. De show leave and go up North. 'Bout
Christmas, de family go together to de vault, open it, and bless God dat rock body done got
up and left dat vault. What you think 'bout dat? What people say? Some say one thing, some
say another. Niggers all 'low, 'Marse John done rose from de dead.' White folks say: 'Somebody
done stole dat body of Marse John and makin' a fortune out of it, in de side show line.'

"Well, I's told you 'nough for one day. I's impatient to git back down yonder to them white
ladies wid dis paper, so as to speed up dat pension as fast as I used to speed up them race
horses I use to ride on de old race track road from Simpson's to Columbia." The Neal's Shoal
dam now marks the site of the old Jeter mill. My family consisted of my parents and an older
brother. My mother was Mandy Clark of Union township. My grandfather Clark moved to the Jeter
mill and ran it for Mr. Jeter. My father, Tom Clark, was a laborer for the Jeters and old man
Tom Sims up on Broad River at what was then known as Simstown. The Tom Sims and Nat Gist families
owned everything in Santuc township until their lands hit the Jimmie Jeter place.

"When I was twelve, my father went to the Confederate War. He joined the Holcombe Legion of
Union County and they went immediately to Charleston. They drilled near the village of Santuc
in what was then called Mulligan's Old Field, now owned by Rion Jeter. This was the only mustering
ground in our part of the county. The soldiers drilled once a week, and for the 'general muster,
all of the companies from Sedalia and Cross Keys come there once a month. During the summer
time they had what they called general drill for a week or ten days. Of course on this occasion
the soldiers camped over the field in covered wagons. Some came in buggies. Slaves, called
'wait-men' cared for the stock and did the cooking and other menial duties for their masters.

"The general store at Santuc and the store at the Cross Roads at Fish Dam did good business
during the summer while the soldiers were in camp. The 'cross roads' have long been done away
with at Fish Dam. The store was under a big oak in front of the house now owned and lived in
by W. H. Gist. The Cross Roads were made by the Fish Dam Ferry Road and the old Ninety-Six
Road. They tell me that the old Ninety-Six Road was started as an Indian trail by the Cherokee
Indians, way yonder before the Revolution. I have been told that a girl named Emily Geiger
rode that ninety-six miles in one day to carry a message to an American general. The message
kept the general and his army from being captured by the red-coats.

"Near the Kay Jeter place just below the Ninety-six road there was a small drill ground. The
place is now known as the Pittman place and is owned by the wife of Dr. J. T. Jeter of Santuc,
I believe. Mr. 'Kay' would send a slave on a horse or a mule to notify the men to come and
drill there. From here they went on to Mulligan's Field some five or six miles away for the
big drills. As I have told you, Mulligan's Field was the big field for all that countryside.
They tell me that the same drilling tactics used then and there, are the same used right down
yonder at Camp Jackson.

"For about four of five years after the Confederate War, we had very little to eat. We had
given everything we could to the soldiers. After the 'May Surrender' there came a big flood
and washed everything away, and the crops were so promising that August. As you know, that
was in '65. The rains and the high water destroyed everything. I do not believe that Broad
River and the Forest and Tyger have ever been as high before or since.

"On Henderson's Island they saved no livestock at all. They just did manage to save themselves.
They had a hard time getting the slaves to the mainland. Mrs. Sallie Henderson, her step-son,
Jack and her son, Jim, and daughter, Lyde were in the Henderson house when the freshet came
down upon them. They had to go up on the second floor of their house but the water came up there.

"Mr. Ben Hancock was the ferryman at Henderson's Ferry at this time. Now you know, Henderson's
Ferry is on the Enoree just above where it empties into the Broad. Henderson's Island is in
the middle of Broad River in full sight of where old Enoree goes into the channel of the Broad.
Well, Mr. Hancock was the best boatman in his day. He knew about the Hendersons, so he tried
to go to them but failed the first three times. The fourth time, he got to the house. When
he got there, he found the whites and twenty-five slaves trapped with them.

"A barrel of flour had caught in the stairway that had washed down the river from somewhere
above. This was pulled upstairs and that is what Mrs. Henderson fed her family and slaves on
for about five days, or until they were rescued by Mr. Hancock. Capt. Jack blew his opossum
horn every two hours throughout the day and night to let the people over on the mainland know
that they were still safe.

"For the rest of that year, river folks had very little to eat until food crops were produced
the next spring.

"My own father was shot down for the first time at the Second Battle of Manassas. Here he got
a lick over his left eye that was about the size of a bullet; but he said that he thought the
lick came from a bit of shell. They carried him to a temporary make-shift hospital that had
been improvised behind the breastworks. A soldier who was recovering from a wound nursed him
as best he could.

"The second time my father was wounded was in Kingston, N.C. He shot a Yankee from behind a
tree and he saw the blood spurt from him as he fell. Just about that time he saw another Yankee
behind a tree leveling a gun at him. Father threw up his gun but too late, the Yankee shot
and tore his arm all to pieces. The bullet went through his arm and struck the corner of his
mouth knocking out part of his jaw bone. Then it went under the neck vein and finally it came
out on his back knocking a hole in one of his shoulder blades large enough to lay your two
thumbs in. His gun stock was also cut into. He lay on the battlefield for a whole day and night;
then he was carried to a house where some kind ladies acting as nurses cared for him for over
four months. He was sent home and dismissed from the army just a mile below Maybinton, S.C.
in Newberry County. Father was unable to do any kind of work for over two years. The war closed
a year after he got home. From that time on I cared for my mother and father.

"We had moved to the plantation of Mr. Ben Maybin in Maybinton before my father was sent home
wounded. Father lived until March, 1st, 1932 when he died at the ripe old age of 102. When
he died we were living at one of the Jeter plantations near Kelley's Chapel, in Fish Dam township,
one-half mile from Old Ninety-Six Road. Father is buried at Kelley's Chapel.

"Mr. Harvey has a bullet that Gov. Scott issued to the negroes during reconstruction times
when he was governor of South Carolina under the carpetbag rule. Scott issued these bullets
to the negroes to kill and plunder with. Mr. Harvey says that bullets like this one were the
cause of many negroes finding their graves in the bottom of Broad River. Mr. Harvey, so it
is said, is still a Ku Klux. They were the chief instruments in getting him into the County
Home of Union in 1925.

"The Ku Klux made a boat twenty-five feet long to carry the negroes down the river. They would
take the negroes' own guns, most of them had two guns, and tie the guns around their necks
in the following manner: The barrel of one gun was tied with wire around the negro's neck,
and the stock of the other gun was fastened with wire around the negro's neck. When the captain
would say, 'A-M-E-N', over the side of the boat the negro went, with his guns and bullets taking
him to a watery grave in the bottom of Broad River. The wooden parts of the guns would rot,
and sometimes the bodies would wash down on the rocks at Neal's Shoals what was then Jeter's
Old Mill. Old gun stocks have been taken from there as mementoes.

"Bill Fitzgerald was my first Ku Klux Captain. He organized the clan in Newberry. When I came
to the Klan over on the Union side, Judge W. H. Wallace and Mr. Isaac McKissick were leaders.

"When we got the negroes from the county jail, the same jail that we have now, that were arrested
for killing Matt Stevens, I broke the lock on the jail door. Buck Allen was the blacksmith.
He held a sledge hammer under the lock while I threw a steel hammer overhanded on the lock
to break it.

"I think Abe Lincoln would have done the South some good if they had let him live. He had a
kind heart and knew what suffering was. Lee would have won the war if the mighty Stonewall
Jackson had lived. Stonewall was ahead of them all. I had two uncles, Jipp and Charlie Clark
in Stonewall's company. They would never talk much about him after his death. It hurts them
too much, for Stonewall's men loved him so much. Jeff Davis was a great man, too."

  =Source:= Mr. Charlie Jeff Harvey, Rt. 4, Box 85, Union, S.C.
          Interviewer: Caldwell Sims, Union, S.C. 8/18/35.

  Project #1655
  W.W. Dixon
  Winnsboro, S.C.

  ELIZA HASTY
  EX-SLAVE 85 YEARS OLD.

Eliza Hasty lives with her son-in-law and her daughter, Philip Moore and Daisy Moore, in an
old time ante bellum home. It has two stories, eight rooms, and front and back piazzas, supported
by slender white posts or columns. It is the old William Douglas homestead, now owned by John
D. Mobley. He rents it to Philip Moore, a well behaved Negro citizen, who, out of respect for
his mother-in-law, Eliza, supports her in the sore trials and helplessness of blindness and
old age. The home is five miles southeast of Blackstock, S.C.

"Boss, you is a good lookin' man, from de sound of your voice. Blind folks has ways of findin'
out things that them wid sight know nothin' 'bout and nobody can splain. De blindness sharpens
de hearin', 'creases de tech, prickles de skin, quickens de taste, and gives you de nose of
a setter, pointer or hound dog. Was I always blind? Jesus, no! I just got de 'fliction several
years ago. I see well enough, when I was a young gal, to pick out a preacher for my fust husband.
So I did! How many times I been married? Just two times; both husbands dead. Tell you 'bout
them directly.

"What dat? Er ha, ha, ha, ha, er ha, ha, ha! Oh Jesus, you makes me laugh, white folks! De
idea of my lossin' my sight a lookin' 'round for a third husband! You sho' is agreeable. Ain't
been so tickled since de secon' time I was a widow. You know my secon' husband was bad after
blind tiger liquor, and harlot eyed, brassy, hussy women.

"Well, I comes down to Winnsboro today to see, I should say to find out, 'cause you know I
can't see, 'bout de pension they is givin' out to de aged and blind. My white folks say dat
you wanna see me and here I is.

"Yes sir, I was born two miles south of Woodward and one mile south of old Yonguesville, on
de Sterling place. I born a slave of old Marse John Sterling. Him have a head as red as a pecker-wood
bird dat just de-sash-sheys 'round de top of dead trees, and make sich a rat-ta-ta-tapple after
worms. His way of gittin' his meat for dinner. My mistress name Betsy. Deir fust child was
Robert, dat never marry; him teach nearly every school in Fairfield County, off and on befo'
he died. Then dere was young Marster Tom, small little man, dat carry his Seceeder 'ligion
so far, him become 'furiated and carry dat 'ligion right up and into de Secession War. Make
a good soldier, too! General Bratton call him, 'My Little Jackass of de Sharp Shooters'! Marse
Tom proud of dat name, from de mouth of a great man lak General John Bratton.

"Marse Tom heard de fust gun fire at Fort Sumter, and laid down his gun, him say, under a big
horse apple tree at 'Applemattox'.

"Miss Sallie, one of de chillun, marry Mr. Chris Elder, of Blackstock. Miss Hepzibah, they
call her Heppie, marry a man named Boyd, in Chester County. Miss Mary Izabella, they call her
Bell, marry Marse John Douglas; they are de 'cestors of dat very angel whose house us is settin'
in right dis minute. Her name is Martha but when grown-up, they sublet (meaning change) dat
name to Mattie, and when her marry, her become Mrs. Thomas P. Bryson. Her is a widow, just
lak I is a widow. De only difference is, I's black and her is white. Her can see well enough
to run after and ketch another man, but I's blind and can't see a man, much less chase after
him. So dere it is! What for you laughin' 'bout? No laughin' business wid me.

"My pappy no b'long to Marse John Sterling: him slave of de Stinsons. Have to git a pass to
come to see my mammy, Mary. Him name Aleck. After de war him take de name of Alexander Roseboro.
Him lak a big long name dat would make folks set up and take notice of him.

"Us live in a little log-house wid a dirt floor. Us had mighty poor beds, I tell you. Us just
had planks to lay de wheat straw mattress on. Pillows? De pillows was just anything you could
snatch and put under your head. Yes sir, us had plenty to eat.

"They 'struct us in de short catechism, make us go to church, and sit up in de gallery and
jine in de singin' on Sundays. Us was well 'tended to when sick. Marster didn't have many slaves.
'Members only two they have, 'sides us; they was Uncle Ned and Cindy. Seem lak dere was another.
Oh yes! It was Fred, a all 'round de creation boy, to do anything and everything. He was a
sorta shirt-tail boy dat pestered me sometime wid goo-goo eyes, a standin' in de kitchen door,
drappin' his weight from one foot to de other, a lookin' at me while I was a churnin' or washin'
de dishes. Dat boy both box-ankle and knock-kneed. When you hear him comin' from de horse lot
to de house, his legs talk to one another, just lak sayin': 'You let me pass dis time, I let
you pass nex' time.' I let you know I had no time for dat ape! When I did git ready to marry,
I fly high as a eagle and ketch a preacher of de Word! Who it was? Him was a Baptis' preacher,
name Solomon Dixon. 'Spect you hear tell of him. No? Well, him b'long, in slavery time, to
your Aunt Roxie's people in Liberty Hill, Kershaw County. You 'members your Aunt Roxie dat
marry Marse Ed D. Mobley, her fust cousin, don't you?

"I love Solomon and went down under de water to be buried wid him in baptism, I sho' did, and
I come up out of dat water to be united wid him in wedlock. When us marry, him have on a long-tail
coat, salt and pepper trousers, box-toed shoes, and a red lead pencil over his ear, just as
long as de one I 'spects you is writin' wid, tho' I can't see it.

"How I dressed? I 'members 'zactly. I wore a blue worsted shirt, over a red underskirt, over
a white linen petticoat wid tuckers at de hem, just a little long, to show good and white 'long
wid de blue of de skirt and de red of de underskirt. Dese all come up to my waist and was held
together by de string dat held my bustle in place. All dis and my corset was hid by de snow
white pleated pique bodice, dat drapped gracefully from my shoulders. 'Round my neck was a
string of green jade beads. I wore red stockin's and my foots was stuck in soft, black, cloth,
gaiter shoes.

"My go-away-hat was 'stonishment to everybody. It was made out of red plush velvet and trimmed
wid white satin ribbons. In de front, a ostrich feather stood up high and two big turkey feathers
flanked de sides. Oh, de treasures of memory to de blind. I's happy to sit here and talk to
you 'bout dat day! I sho' is!

"Us live at Marse John Douglas for a time and dat's where my fust child was born. I name her
for your Aunt Roxie, tho' I give her de full name, Roxanna Dixon. Her marry John Craig. They
live on your grandpa Woodward's old Nickey place, four miles southeast of Blackstock. I had
another baby and I name her Daisy. Her marry Philip Moore. I lives wid them in de old William
Douglas mansion. Nearly all de white folks leavin' de country dese days and de colored folks
gits de fine country houses to live in.

"Well, after de years fly by, my husband, Solomon, go to de mansion prepared for him and me
in hebben. I wait a year and a day and marry William Hasty. Maybe I was a little hasty 'bout
dat, but 'spects it was my fate. Him drink liquor and you know dat don't run to de still waters
of peace and happiness in de home. Him love me, I no doubt dat, but he get off to de bar room
at Blackstock, or de still house in bottom lands, get drunk and spend his money. De Bible say
dat kind of drowsiness soon clothe a man in rags. Him dead now. God rest his soul!

"De Yankees come. They took notice of me! They was a bad lot dat disgrace Mr. Lincoln dat sent
them here. They insult women both white and black, but de Lord was mindful of his own.

"I knows nothin' else to tell you, 'less you would be pleased to hear 'bout what de cyclone
did to my old missus and de old Sterling house. Somewhere 'bout 1880's one of them super knockshal
(equinoctial) storms come 'long, commencin' over in Alabama or Georgia, crossed de Savannah
River, sweep through South Carolina, layin' trees to de ground, cuttin' a path a quarter of
a mile wide, as it traveled from west to east. Every house it tech, it carry de planks and
shingles and sills and joists 'way wid it. De old Sterling house was in de path. Dere was a
big oak tree in de front yard. Old miss and her son, Robert, was dere and Miss Heppie, a granddaughter,
was in dat house. De storm hit dat house 'bout 9 o'clock dat night and never left a bit of
it, 'cept some of de bricks. Some of de logs and sills was found de nex' day over at de other
side of de railroad track. Some of de planks was found six miles east, some of de shingles
across Catawba River, 25 miles east, and curious to say, de wind blowed old miss against de
big oak tree and kill her. It blowed Miss Heppie in de top of dat tree where she was settin'
a cryin' and couldn't git down, and it never harm a hair of Marse Robert's head. Him look 'round
for Miss Heppie, couldn't find her, went off to get help, and when they come back, they have
to git a ladder from old Mr. Bob Mobley's house to git her down.

"Well, here comes my daughters. I hear one outside but I bet you don't hear a thing. Dats deir
steps I hear. Glad for you to meet them. They is mighty fine gals, if I do have to say so.
They come up wid good white folks, de Mills'. Marse Jim Mills have family prayer in de mornin'
and family prayer befo' they go to bed. Dat was de fust thing wid him and de last thing wid
de Mills' family. If all de families do dat way, dere would be de answer to de prayer, 'Dy
kingdom come, Dy will be done, on earth, as 'tis in hebben'.

"Well, give me my stick. Here they is. I bids you goodbye and God bless you."

  Reference:

    Personal interview with Aunt Dolly Haynes, age 91
    Arthurtown, S.C.

  AUNT DOLLY HAYNES
  EX-SLAVE, 91 YEARS OLD, ARTHURTOWN S.C.

"I nebber wuz no rockin' chair setter. I ain't nebber had no time to set down and do nuthin'.
I wuz born at Euta, South Carolina. We belong to Marse Charlie Baumer. My Ma died and lef four
motherless chillun but de missus wuz mighty good to us--call us her chillun. Pa rung de bell
on de plantation fur ter wake de slaves up fur to go to de fiel'. My Missus wuz blind but she
wuz a mighty kin' lady. Mek de cook bring plate of vittals to see ef it wuz heavy nough for
her little chillun.

"After freedom all us moved wid de Marse and Missus to Childs, South Carolina and I mar'd Paul
Haynes, who belonged to old Colonel Hampton.

"Paul wanted to preach but nedder of us had no learnin' an' I say to Paul, 'Does you think
you got nough learnin' to lead a flock of people? I don' wan' you to git up an' mek me shame.'
I tell him to go to de Benedicts an' see what book he needs to study, come by town bring me
a pair of broggans for me, 'cause I wuz a-gwine to wuk and he wuz a-gwine to school. For t'ree
long years I plowed de farm an' sent Paul to de Benedicts 'til he wuz edicated. De briars cut
my legs an' de breshes tore my skirt, but I tuck up de skirt an' plow right on 'til I bought
my little farm. Paul bin dead now 'bout twelve years, but he preached right up to de day he died.

"I got a neffu but I lives alone, wen deys some one in de house I puts down and dey picks up--I
cleans up and dey tears up. I don' owe nobody nuthin'. Wen de nurvus spells leaves me an' I
feels a little strong in de legs I wuks mah garden. I loves to be doin' somethin' to keep clean,
'cause I jes ain't no rockin chair setter". When we was born, de white folks put us chillun
age down in de Bible en I know from dat I been 19 years old de year of de shake. Cose I gets
clothes give to me, but no help no more den dat en all dis here wood en coal bill put on me.
No, mam, ain' got no support to help me out no time. But justice will plum de line some day.
I just gwine leave it in de hands of de Lord. Ain' gwine cry over it."

"I tell you, I been wid white folks all my days en I was properly cared for long as I been
in dey protection. I suffers now more den I is ever think bout would come to me. Yes, mam,
I done raise over 20 head of white chillun. Dat de God truth. I been in de white folks kitchen
all my days en if I feel right, I think dey ought to take of me in my old age. I don' brag
on myself, but if I could work like I used to, I wouldn' ax nothin from nobody. I had a family
of white people to send for me de other week to come en live wid dem en dey would take care
of me, but I never had nobody to trust aun' Sallie wid. You see, child, she such a helpless,
poor creature just settin dere in dat bed all de time en can' see to do one thing widout I
give her my hand. Cose de government helps aun' Sallie, but dat ain' me. En, honey, I ain'
even able to stand up en iron, I has dis rheumatism so bad. It hurts me so terrible at night,
I has to keep my foots out from under de cover. It a sort of burnin rheumatism like. Yes, mam,
it does worry me right smart."

"Oh, my Lord, I was raise down dere to old Dr. Durant plantation. Yes, mam, dem Durants had
everything right to dey hand. Never had to want for a glass of water or nothin en didn' none
of Dr. Durant's colored people never had no trouble wid de law from de time de law take care
to dis. I remember old Massa would always kill his plantation people a cow on de fourth of
July en couldn' never count de number of hogs dey would have, dere be so many. Honey, dey would
take dem hogs up dis time of de year from out de swamp en put dem in dey fattenin pen. Lord,
Lord, de many a time dat I been see dem take bucket on a bucket of milk to dat pen. When my
mother was dere helpin dem, dey used to been a week to a time tryin up lard en makin blood
puddin en sausage en joinin up ears en things like dat. Yes, mam, all dey plantation niggers
what been helpin dat day set for hog killin would eat to de white folks yard. Dey would just
put two or three of dese big wash pot out in de yard en full dem up wid backbone en haslets
en rice to satisfy dem hungry niggers wid en would bake de corn bread to de Missus kitchen.
I mean dey would have hog killin days den, too. Would have dese long old benches settin out
dere under de trees to work on--long benches, child. Some days, dey would kill 15 hogs en some
days, dey would kill 20 hogs en I mean dey was hogs, not pigs. De number dey would kill would
be accordin to how many hands was helpin de day dey pick to kill. You see, dey would kill dem
one day en hang dem up en den dey would set de next day to cut dem up. Oh, dey would hang dem
up right out to de eyes of everybody en didn' nobody never have no mind to bother nothin. My
Lord, couldn' trust to do nothin like dat dese days. En dey had de nicest homemade butter en
whip cream dere all de time. Seems like things was just more plentiful en dey was better in
dat day en time."

"It just like I tellin you, it de way of de past, everything had to be carried out right on
Dr. Durant's plantation. When freedom come here, dere couldn' no head never get dem colored
people to leave from dere. Yes, mam, dey great grand-chillun dere carryin on to dis very day.
Dem Durant chillun ain' never had to hunt for no hand to do somethin for dem. Yes, mam, my
white folks had dey own colored people graveyard what was corn crated in en it still dere right
now. When one of de colored people on de plantation would die, dey white folks would be right
dere to de funeral. En it de blessed truth, old Dr. Durant had his own carpenters right dere
on de plantation to make de corpse boxes en line dem en all dat en dig de graves. Dat was a
day, honey, en dat a day gone from here, I say."

"I ain' never been one of dese peck abouts when I was comin on cause I didn' done nothin, but
nurse de white folks chillun dat was comin up. Yes, mam, I would go all bout wid de white people.
Dey never didn' leave me home. Lord, de chillun what I nurse, dey got seven en eight head of
chillun of dey own now. Like I been tellin you, some of dem beg me to come en live wid dem,
but my God, I can' struggle wid dem chillun no more after I done wash baby breeches all my
best days, so to speak. Yes, my Lord, dem chillun would get dey 10:30 lunch in de mornin en
I been get mine, too. Ain' never had to work in de field in all my life. Anybody can tell you
dat what know me."

"I has a little boy stayin here wid me en aun' Sallie what was give to me. I don' never think
hard of de people for not fussin bout him stayin here cause he helps me so much. No, mam, I
know his mother fore she die en he been stayin wid his aun' en she chillun en dey treat him
mean. He been raise to himself en he can' stand no other chillun en he come home from school
one day en ax me to let him stay here wid me. No, child, he ain' no trouble cause de Lord give
me dat child. He can stay out dere in dat yard right by himself en play all day fore he would
ever get dirty up."

"Well, I tell you, I don' know hardly what to say bout how de world gwine dese days. I just
afraid to say bout it. I know one thing, I used to live better, but President Roosevelt, seem
like he tryin to do de right thing. But if I could be de whole judge of de world, I think de
best thing would be for de people to be on dey knees en prayin. De people talkin bout fightin
all de time en dis here talk bout fightin in de air, dat what got my goat. Might lay down at
night sound en wake up in de mornin en find us all in destructiveness. I say, de Lord all what
can save dis country."

Jim Henry lives with his wife, Mary, in a four-room frame house, three miles southeast of Winnsboro,
S.C. He owns the house and nine acres of land. He has only one arm, the other having been amputated
twenty years ago. He employs a boy to plough, and he and his wife make a living on the property.

"I was born in the Bratton slave quarter, about six miles northeast of Winnsboro. I was born
a slave of General John Bratton. He use to tell me I come from 'stinguished stock, dat he bought
my father, James, from de Patrick Henry family in Virginia. Dat's de reason my pappy and us
took dat name after freedom.

