Awa' he sets, and he fa's in wi' a flesher.  "Weel," says the flesher, "if ye'll be my servant
a' day, I'll gie ye a leg o' mutton at night." "I'll be that," quo' Jock.  He got a leg o'
mutton at night.  He ties a string to it, and trails it behind him the hale road hame.  "What
hae ye been doing?" said his mither.  He tells her.  "Hout, you fool, ye should hae carried
it on your shouther."  "I'll mind that again," quo' Jock.

Awa' he gaes next day, and meets a horse-dealer.  He says, "If you will help me wi' my horses
a' day, I'll give you ane to yoursel' at night." "I'll do that," quo' Jock.  So he served him,
and got his horse, and he ties its feet; but as he was not able to carry it on his back, he
left it lying on the roadside.  Hame he comes, and tells his mither.  "Hout, ye daft gowk,
ye'll ne'er turn wise!  Could ye no hae loupen on it, and ridden it?"  "I'll mind that again,"
quo' Jock.

Aweel, there was a grand gentleman, wha had a daughter wha was very subject to melancholy;
and her father gae out that whaever should mak' her laugh would get her in marriage.  So it
happened that she was sitting at the window ae day, musing in her melancholy state, when Jock,
according to the advice o' his mither, cam' flying up on a cow's back, wi' the tail over his
shouther.  And she burst out into a fit o' laughter.  When they made inquiry wha made her laugh,
it was found to be Jock riding on the cow.  Accordingly, Jock was sent for to get his bride.
Weel, Jock was married to her, and there was a great supper prepared. Amongst the rest o' the
things, there was some honey, which Jock was very fond o'.  After supper, they all retired,
and the auld priest that married them sat up a' night by the kitchen fireside.  So Jock waukens
in the night-time, and says, "Oh, wad ye gie me some o' yon nice sweet honey that we got to
our supper last night?"  "Oh ay," says his wife, "rise and gang into the press, and ye'll get
a pig fou o 't."  Jock rose, and thrust his hand into the honey-pig for a nievefu' o 't, and
he could not get it out.  So he cam' awa' wi' the pig in his hand, like a mason's mell, and
says, "Oh, I canna get my hand out."  "Hoot," quo' she, "gang awa' and break it on the cheek-stane."
By this time, the fire was dark, and the auld priest was lying snoring wi' his head against
the chimney- piece, wi' a huge white wig on.  Jock gaes awa', and gae him a whack wi' the honey-pig
on the head, thinking it was the cheek-stane, and knocks it a' in bits.  The auld priest roars
out, "Murder!"  Jock tak's doun the stair as hard as he could bicker, and hides himsel' amang
the bees' skeps.

That night, as luck wad have it, some thieves cam' to steal the bees' skeps, and in the hurry
o' tumbling them into a large grey plaid, they tumbled Jock in alang wi' them.  So aff they
set, wi' Jock and the skeps on their backs.  On the way, they had to cross the burn where Jock
lost his bonnet.  Ane o' the thieves cries, "Oh, I hae fand a bonnet!" and Jock, on hearing
that, cries out, "Oh, that's mine!"  They thocht they had got the deil on their backs.  So
they let a' fa' in the burn; and Jock, being tied in the plaid, couldna get out; so he and
the bees were a' drowned thegither.

If a' tales be true, that's nae lee.

SAINT COLUMBA.

Soon after Saint Columba established his residence in Iona, tradition says that he paid a visit
to a great seminary of Druids, then in the vicinity, at a place called Camusnan Ceul, or Bay
of Cells, in the district of Ardnamurchan.  Several remains of Druidical circles are still
to be seen there, and on that bay and the neighbourhood many places are still named after their
rites and ceremonies; such as Ardintibert, the Mount of Sacrifice, and others.  The fame of
the Saint had been for some time well known to the people, and his intention of instructing
them in the doctrines of Christianity was announced to them.  The ancient priesthood made every
exertion to dissuade the inhabitants from hearing the powerful eloquence of Columba, and in
this they were seconded by the principal man then in that country, whose name was Donald, a
son of Connal.

The Saint had no sooner made his appearance, however, than he was surrounded by a vast multitude,
anxious to hear so celebrated a preacher; and after the sermon was ended, many persons expressed
a desire to be baptized, in spite of the remonstrances of the Druids.  Columba had made choice
of an eminence centrally situated for performing worship; but there was no water near the spot,
and the son of Connal threatened with punishment any who should dare to procure it for his
purpose.  The Saint stood with his back leaning on a rock; after a short prayer, he struck
the rock with his foot, and a stream of water issued forth in great abundance.  The miracle
had a powerful effect on the minds of his hearers, and many became converts to the new religion.
This fountain is still distinguished by the name of Columba, and is considered of superior
efficacy in the cure of diseases.  When the Catholic form of worship prevailed in that country
it was greatly resorted to, and old persons yet remember to have seen offerings left at the
fountain in gratitude for benefits received from the benignant influence of the Saint's blessing
on the water.  At length it is said that a daughter of Donald, the son of Connal, expressed
a wish to be baptized, and the father restrained her by violence.  He also, with the aid of
the Druids, forced Columba to take refuge in his boat, and the holy man departed for Iona,
after warning the inhospitable Caledonian to prepare for another world, as his life would soon
terminate.

The Saint was at sea during the whole night, which was stormy; and when approaching the shores
of his own sacred island the following morning, a vast number of ravens were observed flying
over the boat, chasing another of extraordinary large size.  The croaking of the ravens awoke
the Saint, who had been sleeping; and he instantly exclaimed that the son of Connal had just
expired, which was afterwards ascertained to be true.

A very large Christian establishment appears to have been afterwards formed in the Bay of Cells;
and the remains of a chapel, dedicated to Saint Kiaran, are still to be seen there.  It is
the favourite place of interment among the Catholics of this day.  Indeed, Columba and many
of his successors seem to have adopted the policy of engrafting their institutions on those
which had formerly existed in the country.  Of this there are innumerable instances, at least
we observe the ruins of both still visible in many places; even in Iona we find the burying-ground
of the Druids known at the present day.  This practice may have had advantages at the time,
but it must have been ultimately productive of many corruptions; and, in a great measure, accounts
for many superstitious and absurd customs which prevailed among that people to a very recent
period, and which are not yet entirely extinct.  In a very ancient family in that country two
round balls of coarse glass have been carefully preserved from time immemorial, and to these
have been ascribed many virtues--amongst others, the cure of any extraordinary disease among
cattle.  The balls were immersed in cold water for three days and nights, and the water was
afterwards sprinkled over all the cattle; this was expected to cure those affected, and to
prevent the disease in the rest. From the names and appearance of these balls, there is no
doubt that they had been symbols used by the Archdruids.

