Disaster as usual followed him: the spot was unhealthy, the family had fevers, one of the children
died, and the mother lost her reason from grief, so that she had to be kept under restraint
for the rest of her life.  Nor was Carey a better indigo-planter than a shoe-maker; the profits
of the factory dwindled, and the buildings fell into ruin; the seasons were bad, and in three
years Mr. Udney found himself obliged to give up the speculation; but in the meantime, though
Carey had not been able to produce much effect on the natives, he had completed the preparation
of the implement to which he most trusted for his work, a translation of the New Testament;
and, moreover, had been presented by good Mr. Udney with a wooden printing-press with Bengalee
type.  The wonderful-looking thing was set up in one of the side rooms at the factory, and
was supposed by the natives to be the idol of the Europeans!

In the meantime he opened a school, and preached to the natives in all the villages round,
but without making much, if any, impression; indeed he was so disheartened, that he did not
even teach his own children.  The chief benefit of his residence in India was at present the
example he set, and the letters he sent home, which bore in on the minds of others the necessities
of their brethren in the East, and brought aid in subscriptions and, what was still more needed,
men.

In 1799, four members of the Baptist communion offered themselves to go out as missionaries
to India, and two of these were men who left most important traces behind them: William Ward,
who had been a printer and editor of a newspaper at Derby, and had seen Mr. Carey before his
going out to India, and Joshua Marshman.  This latter was the person who, above all others,
gave the struggling mission the strength, consistency, and prudence which it wanted.  The descendant
of an old Puritan officer on the one side, and of Huguenot refugees on the other, he was brought
up in strict Baptist principles by his father, who was one of the cloth weavers then inhabiting
Wiltshire in great numbers.  As a child, he was passionately fond of reading, and his huge
appetite for books and great memory made him a wonder in his village.  A London bookseller,
who was visiting the place, heard of this clever lad, and took him into his shop as an errand
boy; but Joshua found that his concern was more with the outside of books than the inside,
and came home, at the end of five months, to his father's loom.

He was a steady lad, with no passions save for reading and quiet heartfelt religion; but though
he had never been guilty of any serious fault, the Baptist body to which his family belonged
considered he had too much "head-knowledge" of Christianity to have much "heart-knowledge"
of its truths; and for that reason only, and their distrust and contempt of human learning,
refused to admit him to baptism.

However, this was no obstacle either to his marrying the daughter of a minister of his own
persuasion, or taking the mastership of a school at Bristol, where he found less narrow-minded
co-religionists, and was baptized by them in 1734, when twenty-six years of age.  He was a
successful schoolmaster, and was likewise able to join the classes at Bristol Academy, where
he studied thoroughly Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and Syriac.  His circumstances were prosperous
and rapidly improving when, after five years of great comfort at Bristol, his mind became so
imbued with the sense of the need that some one should assist Carey, that he offered himself,
together with Ward and two other young men, one of whom he had recently brought back to Christianity
from Tom Paine's infidel doctrines.  Again his "human learning" stood in his way.  The honest,
ignorant men who were working so earnestly, fancied it connected with Pharisaism, and had little
idea that the Brahmin philosophy was as hard to deal with as the Greek.  They accepted him,
but with hesitation, and a passage for the whole party, including wives and children, was taken
in an American vessel.

Mr. Charles Grant advised them not to attempt to land at Calcutta, where they would probably
be at once arrested and sent home again, but to land at the Danish colony of Serampore, and
there wait for an opportunity of joining Carey at Mudnabutty.

Serampore is on the Hooghly, sixteen miles above Calcutta, and here they found themselves on
the 13th of October, 1799, in a town pleasantly situated, beautiful to look at, and full of
a mixed population of Danes, Dutch, English, and natives of all hues.  They were preparing
to set forth for Mudnabutty when, on the fifth day after their arrival, they were informed
that the British Government demanded that they should be immediately re-embarked and sent home
again, whilst a local English paper, having never heard of Baptists, concluded that the word
was a mistake for Papists, and announced the arrival of four Popish priests, emissaries of
Buonaparte.  The Danish governor, Colonel Bie, was resolved to stand his ground and not deliver
them up; but they were prevented from setting foot upon the Company's territory, and the unwholesome,
damp, little house that they were obliged to take while waiting at Serampore proved fatal to
one of their number, the young man whom Marshman had rescued from infidelity, who died of chill
and fever before his inexperienced associates were aware of his danger.

Another difficulty in the way of joining Carey and assisting in the printing of his translations,
was that papers which were thought dangerous to the British power had lately been issued, and
the Marquis Wellesley, who was then in the midst of his great war with Tippoo Sahib, was resolved
not to allow any printing to be carried on except in Calcutta, where it could be under the
eye of his officials.  However, he had no objection to the establishment of mission, school,
or press on the Danish ground, and Colonel Bie was only desirous to keep them there; so it
was decided to send Ward alone, with a Danish passport, to visit Carey at Mudnabutty, and confer
with him upon his removal to Serampore, and the establishment of a mission settlement there.

All doubt was removed, while this consultation was in progress, by finding that the jealous
Anglo-Indians were prepared to arrest any missionary whom they caught upon their ground; and
Carey's five years' covenant as an indigo planter being now run out, his supposed idol was
taken down and packed up, and his four boys and poor insane wife removed to Serampore, where
all their present capital was laid out in the purchase of a piece of ground and the construction
of the habitations of the little colony.  The expenses were to be defrayed from a common stock,
each missionary in turn superintending the domestic arrangements for a month, all the household
dining together at one table, and only a small allowance being made to each head of a family
for pocket money.

Six families were here united, and only 200l. was left to support them for the six months until
remittances could be obtained from England; but all were used to cottage fare, and were not
so dependent on servants as most Europeans in India.  A piece of land attached to the house
became, under Mr. Carey's care, a beautiful botanic garden.  The press was set up under the
care of Ward, and on the 18th of March, 1800, the first sheets of the Gospels in Bengalee were
struck off.  Mr. and Mrs. Marshman opened two boarding schools for European children for the
maintenance of the mission, and their great ability in tuition rendered these so profitable
as to become its main support.  This was soon followed by another school for the natives, to
which they eagerly thronged.

Meanwhile the missionaries went out, singly or in pairs, into the streets or the neighbourhood
of the heathen temples, and attracted a crowd by singing hymns in Bengalee, and then preached
to them, offering to receive any inquiries at the mission-house.  Carey's time was almost entirely
taken up in hearing and answering these questions; but, as usual, the ties of family, society,
and custom almost always proved too strong to be broken through even by the conviction of the
truth of Christianity.  Ram- bosoo, Mr. Carey's first Hindoo friend, was like Serfojee, ready
to do anything on behalf of Christianity except to embrace it openly himself.

Mr. Thomas had meantime engaged himself as superintendent of a sugar factory at Beerbhoom,
whence he came to visit his brethren at Serampore, bringing with him one of his workmen named
Fukier, whom he believed that he had converted.  The man gave so good an account of his faith
that the missionaries deemed him fit for baptism, and rejoiced in him as the first- fruits
of seven years' labour; but he went home to take leave of his friends, and either they prevailed
on him to give up his intention, or privately murdered him, for he never was heard of again.

However, a carpenter of Serampore named Krishnu, who had been brought into the mission-house
with a dislocated arm for Mr. Thomas to set, was so struck by what he heard there that he,
with his wife and daughter and his brother Goluk, were all willing to give up their caste and
be baptized.

There was much, however, to render the joy of this day far from being unmixed.  Poor John Thomas,
after his seventeen years of effort, fitful, indeed, but sincere, was so overjoyed at this
confession of faith that he became frantic, and in three days was raving violently.  Meanwhile,
the native mob, infuriated by hearing that Krishnu and Goluk had renounced their caste, rose
to the number of two thousand, and dragged them to the magistrate, but found nothing to accuse
them of.  The magistrate released them, but they were brought back immediately after, on the
plea that the person to whom Krishnu's daughter had been betrothed had a claim upon her.  This,
however, the authorities disallowed, and they even gave the missionaries a guard to secure
them from any interruption during the rite of Baptism, which, by the customs of their sect,
was necessarily in public, and by immersion; but there was serious consultation whether it
were fit to use the Ganges, so superstitiously adored by the natives, for the purpose.  Some
argued that the Hindoos might think that the sacredness of Gunga was thus recognized, others
that they would consider that the Christians had defiled it, and it was finally resolved to
use it like any other stream.  In the meantime, Goluk and the two women had been so much terrified
that they would not come forward; and on the day of the baptism, Sunday, the 26th of December,
1800, the only two candidates were Krishnu and Felix Carey, the missionary's own eldest son.
William Carey walked from the chapel to the ghat, or steps leading to the river, with his son
on one side and the Hindoo on the other; but the court they had to pass resounded with the
frightful imprecations of poor Mr. Thomas in one room, echoed by screams from Mrs. Carey in
the other.

At the ghat the Danish governor himself, together with several of his countrymen, some Englishmen,
a large body of Portuguese, and a throng of natives, Hindoo and Mahometan, were waiting, and
before all these the baptism was performed by Mr. Carey.  All were silent as if overawed, and
Colonel Bie even shed tears.

The next day there was not a scholar in the native school, but the love of learning soon filled
it again.  Even down till quite recently, when the bands of attachment to the old heathenism
have become much loosened, every open conversion continued to empty the schools, though never
for long at a time.

The women soon recovered from their alarm and were baptized, and the mission also gained over
an influential Portuguese gentleman named Fernandez, whom their tenets led them to view as
in as much need of conversion as the heathen.  He proved an active assistant, and for full
thirty years laboured in their cause.

In the meantime Lord Wellesley had been engaged in founding the college at Fort William, Calcutta,
for the training of young Europeans for the civil service in the knowledge of the numerous
native tongues, laws, and customs with which they had to deal--and which are as various as
they are important--not only practically, but philosophically.  The only person at that time
in Bengal qualified to teach the Bengalese language was the Northamptonshire cobbler, who had
acquired it for the love of God and the spread of Gospel light!

His dissent was a disqualification for any of the higher offices of the college, but the teachership
was offered to him, with a salary of 500 rupees a month--absolute affluence compared with his
original condition. Yet he would not accept the post unless he were allowed still to be regarded
as a missionary.  No objection was made, and thus by his talent and usefulness had Carey forced
from the Government which had forbidden him to set foot on their territories his recognition
in the character he had always claimed.  Even his private secular earnings he never regarded
as his own: this income, and that arising from Marshman's school, these good men viewed as
rendering their mission from henceforth independent, and setting free the Society at home to
support fresh ones.  Already the accounts they sent home were stirring up many more subscribers,
and the commendations bestowed on them in the periodical accounts pained their humility.  Ward
wrote that it was like a public show: "Very fine missionaries to be seen here!  Walk in, brethren
and sisters, walk in!"

It was happy for the missionaries that their ground had thus been won, for the war with Denmark
occasioned Serampore to be occupied by British troops early in 1801, and this would, earlier
in their career, infallibly have led to their expulsion: but, as it was, they were allowed
to proceed exactly as they had done before.

Their most serious difficulties were at an end before poor Thomas, though he had recovered
from his brain fever, died of an attack of fever and ague, after having done almost an equal
amount of good and harm to his cause by his excitable nature and entire want of balance.  Converts
continued from time to time to be gathered in: Goluk took courage after waiting about two years,
and a Brahmin named Krishnu-prisad trampled on his brahminical cord or poita, and was baptized.
He was allowed to wear it as a mark of distinction, but he gave it up voluntarily after three
years.  Moreover he broke through Indian prejudice by marrying the daughter of Krishnu, the
first convert, though of a caste far inferior to his own.  This was the occasion of a happy
little wedding feast, given under a tree in front of the house of the bride's father, when
a hymn composed by Krishnu was sung, and native dishes served up in Eastern style, after which
the entertainment concluded with prayer.  Only the next week, in contrast to the devotion that
blessed these family ties, three Hindoo widows were burnt on a pile not far from the mission-house!

