Without any special heralding, Mr. ERIC LEADBITTER seems to have stepped into the front rank,
perhaps even to the leadership, of those active novelists whose theme is English rural life.
I emphasize the word "active," with of course a thought for the master of them all, the wizard
of Dorchester, at whose feet it would probably be fair to suppose Mr. LEADBITTER to have learnt
some at least of his craft. His new story, Shepherd's Warning (ALLEN AND UNWIN), is a quiet
tale of life in a not specially attractive village--a tale that conquers by its direct humanity
and by an art so delicate and so deftly concealed that the book has a deceptive appearance
of having written itself without effort on the part of its author. It concerns a group of peasants,
agricultural labourers, inhabitants of Fidding, a village gradually yielding to the encroachments
by tram and villa of the neighbouring town. The simple annals of these folk, and especially
of one family, old Bob Garrett and his grandsons, provide the matter of a tale gentle as the
passage of time itself, never dull, instinct with quality in every line of it. Mr. LEADBITTER
has a method of concentration so pronounced that, once let his characters, even his heroine,
step outside the beam that he has focussed upon Fidding, and they vanish utterly, till the
working (apparently) of fate brings them back again. Even the murder in his early chapters
is so lightly touched upon as to produce hardly any effect of violence. His sympathy with the
life of the soil, and the human lives that are so near to it, is clearly absorbing; the result
is that, to all save the confirmed sensationalist (piqued possibly by the waste of good homicide),
Shepherd's Warning will also, I think, prove Reader's Delight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. H. COLLINSON OWEN, formerly Editor of the soldiers' paper, The Balkan News, would just
love to trap you into an argument on the value of our Macedonian campaign as compared with
certain other war efforts. His book, Salonika and After (HODDER AND STOUGHTON), shows him thirsting
to accept battle for the cause he champions; and in the sub-title, The Side-Show that Ended
the War, he fairly throws down the gauntlet. But take my advice and don't be drawn. He has
a foreword from General MILNE to support him, and an extract from LUDENDORFF'S Memoirs, and
a quotation from The Times. He has a very lively and convincing way of putting things too,
and once he gets his enthusiasm fairly in hand becomes an uncommonly powerful advocate. Not
that this volume is by any means just a piece of special pleading; only the author is honourably
concerned to show both the importance and the severity of the war against the Bulgars, which
he thinks people at home were a little inclined to disparage. I certainly cannot remember doing
so, but, putting controversy aside, this book remains an adequate first-hand account of an
adventure so great as to demand an heroic literature all its own, where it can be seen in true
perspective. Mr. OWEN deals delightfully with nights in Salonika clubland or the vagaries of
King "TINO", or with the more warlike matters culminating in the terrific actions that held
the enemy's left wing tight while our allies smashed his centre. An excellent book, with illustrations
above the average and a good map handily placed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. HENRY DUDENEY'S Spade Work (HURST AND BLACKETT) is a queer story queerly told. A musician
and an art-and-crafty girl, both poor and both dull, are engaged. The musician, visiting his
fiancée, now well off and installed in a comfortable village farm-house, lets the strong air
of the place get into his head and falls deep in love with a yeoman's daughter, who in turn,
stimulated by this experience, straightway succumbs (at her first dance in real society, into
which the great lady of the village, her patron, has introduced her) to the suggestion that
she shall spend an unchaperoned night on a young blood's yacht, with results usual in distressful
fiction. However, after many tribulations she and her musician, now duller than ever, are united,
while the jilted craftswoman is left "full of ideas, sumptious (sic), a little feverish" for
village industries which from my impression of her mentality I should judge would be of a devastating
order. Lovers of that charming little West-country village in which the author sets her scene
will not easily forgive her for naming it and baldly cataloguing its houses and sundry points
of its environment, leaving out most that is the essential of its charm. It's simply not done
by authentic writers of fiction--barring house-agents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those who experienced the rapture of discovery in an exhibition last May of caricatures by
EDMUND X. KAPP may now rejoice (supposing them to command the needful guinea) that they can
recapture this pleasure through a volume of twenty-four representative drawings collected under
the apt title of Personalities (SECKER). Not for me to attempt detailed consideration, even
if it were not the duty of every amateur to fall a victim at first hand to Mr. KAPP'S amazing
art. But one can hardly pass without tribute such things as the head of the Japanese poet on
page 1 ("Seer of Visions"), a really wonderful example of much meaning in few lines, or the
WYNDHAM LEWIS, the only drawing in the book in which a suggestion of cruelty tinges the satire.
Perhaps the most directly laughter-moving pages are those devoted to the brilliant series of
musical conductors; is this because we have all stared our two hours into expert familiarity
with these variously-tailored backs? But indeed here is a volume of twenty-four joys, or rather
twenty-five, the last being anticipation of Mr. KAPP'S further activities, which I for one
shall await with very genuine interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Miss ----, the well-known lady golfer, was married yesterday. Several
    well-known golfers formed a guard of honour, and made an arch of golf
    clubs for the bridal couple to pass under. The bride and bridegroom
    were pelted with wooden golf balls."--Provincial Paper.

Rubber-cores might have been less painful, but were perhaps too expensive.