The Devil asked Don Quixote to communicate with Montesinos that he might receive instructions
as to how to carry out the disenchantment of Lady Dulcinea; and then he turned around his horse
and was gone. The whole thing had happened so suddenly that even Don Quixote was perplexed
and seemed as if he did not know whether to believe what he had seen and heard. Sancho was
dumbfounded and frightened out of his wits.

As Don Quixote made no move to follow the Devil's advice, the Duke turned to him and asked
whether he intended to remain where he was. He answered that he would even if all the devils
from hell should attack him. Scarcely had he vowed this when he had to gather all his courage
in order not to give way to fear, for again there broke out a noise and din that surpassed
anything that he had ever heard: shots of cannon and muskets, shouts and screams from all sides,
and the terrific sound of all the trumpets, horns, drums, bugles and clarions; and then came
the heavy creaking noise of carts, coming through the wood and all brightly lighted with rows
of tapers.

It was too much for poor Sancho. He fell fainting on the Duchess' skirt. She ordered her servants
to fan him and to throw water in his face, and he regained consciousness just as one of the
carts was passing. It was drawn by four oxen, completely covered with black cloth, and attached
to each horn was a lighted wax taper. Leading the oxen were two demons with such horrible,
frightful faces that Sancho shut his eyes tightly after having got one glance of them. An old,
worthy-looking man with a long, snow-white beard sat on a raised seat on the cart; and when
he passed Don Quixote he said in a deep voice: "I am the sage Lirgandeo." And the cart continued.
Then followed other carts, with other sages, and Sancho's face suddenly lighted up, for he
heard sweet music in the distance, and he said to the Duchess: "Señora, where there is music,
there can be no mischief."

But Don Quixote would not commit himself, for all he remarked was: "That remains to be seen."
One of the figures was a young maiden in the costume of a nymph. She was very beautiful. The
other one was dressed in a robe of state and had her head covered with a black veil.

As the car reached the spot where the Duke and Duchess and Don Quixote were standing, the music
suddenly ceased, and the figure in the long robe rose and removed both the robe and the veil.
All were astonished to find themselves face to face with Death. Sancho was frightened; Don
Quixote felt ill at ease; and even the Duke and the Duchess seemed uncomfortable.

Then Death began to declaim a long poem which ended with the announcement that the Lady Dulcinea
was enchanted by himself, the sage Merlin, here in the guise of Death, and that she could be
redeemed in but one way: by three thousand three hundred lashes administered on Don Quixote's
squire Sancho.

When Sancho heard this he exclaimed that he would rather stab himself that take the lashes,
for he failed to see what he had to do with the enchantment of the Lady Dulcinea. This talk
infuriated Don Quixote, who threatened to tie him to a tree and lay on the lashes himself,
if his faithful squire had so little respect for his beloved one that he would not sacrifice
himself to such an extent. But Merlin said that would have no effect, for the worthy Sancho
must do the sacrifice of his own free will, or the disenchantment could not be accomplished.

Sancho, however, was as stubborn as a mule, and it was not until the Duke himself took a hand
in the matter and threatened him with the loss of his governorship that he gave in; and then
a compromise was made whereby Sancho promised to inflict the three thousand three hundred lashes
upon himself. Merlin assured him, however, that if he should make any mistake in counting them,
it would soon be known; for the moment all the lashes had been dealt, the Lady Dulcinea would
be released--neither one lash before, nor one lash after--and she would at once come to thank
and reward him for his sacrifice.

As soon as Sancho had testified his willingness to serve his master and his master's lady,
Don Quixote fell on his squire's neck and kissed him. The Duke and the Duchess praised him
for his unselfishness. And the music played again. Then the car moved on, Lady Dulcinea bowed
to Sancho and the ducal pair, and dawn appeared with its glowing smile. The muskets were again
heard; and all was calm.

The Duke was pleased beyond measure with his idea, which had been so effectively carried out.
The hunt was at an end, and all returned happy and content--all except Sancho, who could not
help thinking of the pain he was to give himself. But the Duke was bent on hitting upon new
schemes whereby he should be able to continue the gaiety that Sancho and his master caused.
This majordomo was a fellow full of pranks and good humor, and it was he who had written the
verses he recited, too. To him the Duke now turned, and they contrived together another amusing
scheme.

The next day Sancho was asked by the Duchess how many lashes he had given himself; and he replied
meekly that he had commenced with five. After a moment's inquisition, however, the squire admitted
that it had not been with lashes but slaps that he had done penance. The Duchess said she was
certain that the sage Merlin would not tolerate any such false pretense. She suggested that
he make a scourge with claws or knotted cords so that he would be sure to feel what he was
doing to himself, and when the Duchess offered to bring him such a scourge in the morning,
he had to promise to accept it. Then he told her that he had written a letter to his wife,
Teresa Panza, in the governor style; and begged her to read it, which she did. The Duchess
derived so much amusement from it that she hastened to show it to the Duke. And when Sancho
was asked whether he had written the letter himself, he said that he only dictated it, since
he could neither read nor write.

After dinner the Duke and the Duchess were sitting in the garden talking with Don Quixote and
Sancho, when suddenly there was heard the sound of a deep doleful voice. They all turned quickly
to see who was speaking, and there they saw approaching them a man with a snow-white beard
that reached almost to the ground. His mistress, he said, in order to find this knight had
traveled all the way from the kingdom of Kandy without breaking her fast, and now he begged
that Don Quixote would receive the lady, that she herself might tell him her misfortunes.

Don Quixote at once bade the squire go and fetch the Countess; at the same time he uttered
a desire to the Duke that the confessor who did not believe in knights errant might have been
present to see how appreciated and famed his achievements had become throughout the world.

CHAPTERS XXXVII-XXXIX

WHEREIN IS CONTINUED THE NOTABLE ADVENTURE OF THE DISTRESSED DUENNA, INCLUDING HER MARVELOUS
AND MEMORABLE TALE OF MISFORTUNE

The Countess soon arrived, escorted by twelve duennas, who formed a lane through which she
passed into the Duke's presence. On seeing so distinguished a guest, he went to receive her
with all the honors due to her rank. When she had curtsied, she asked the Duke if it were true
that the famous Don Quixote of La Mancha was present in the company.

Before Don Quixote or any one else had had an opportunity to reply, Sancho opened his mouth
and burst out: "The Panza is here, and Don Quixottissimus too; and so, most distressedest Duennissima,
you may say what you willissimus, for we are all readissimus to do you any servissimus."

Then Don Quixote stepped forward and begged the duenna to give him an account of her distress
that he might know how to relieve it. The duenna became emotional almost beyond bounds. She
thrust herself before Don Quixote and embraced his legs, imploring his and his squire's help,
and then began to tell her story of misery.

All the while the Duke and the Duchess were in paroxysms of laughter, so well did the duenna
act her part. And their enjoyment was further heightened by the remarks and questions that
Sancho interspersed here and there, always at the wrong moment and much to his master's chagrin.

The weeping duenna went on to tell how she had been the ranking duenna at the court of the
dowager-queen of Kandy; how she had been entrusted with the care and the bringing up of the
Princess Antonomasia, the young heiress of the kingdom, and how she had permitted a young gentleman
at the court, who was enamored of the Princess, to gain her favor in such a degree that marriage
followed. The young Don had captivated both the Princess and the duenna with his accomplishments,
for not only did he play the guitar and write poetry, and dance, but he could as well make
bird-cages. But when the Queen learned of her daughter's marriage to one so much beneath her
in rank, her heart broke in twain and she collapsed and was buried in three days, the duenna
declared, tears streaming down her face all the while.

Sancho was curious at once, and wanted to have a doubt settled. "She died, no doubt?" he asked;
and the duenna assured him that they did not bury the living in Kandy, only the dead. But Sancho
thought it was a very stupid thing for the Old Queen to go and die thus; he said he could see
no reason why she should have taken the whole thing so to heart, for the Princess might have
married a page. That, in Sancho's opinion, might have been an excuse for dying; but the Don
was such an accomplished man, and a gentleman at that, who could even make bird-cages. Dying
was too absurd!

Then the duenna resumed, and now came the worst of her story. She told how the two lovers,
upon the Queen's death, had become enchanted by the giant Malambruno, the Queen's first cousin,
who had sworn that they would not regain their right shapes until the famous and valiant knight
of La Mancha had met him in single combat. Having sentenced them thus, he summoned all the
duennas in the castle, charging them with the responsibility of the evil match, and saying
that since he did not wish them to suffer death, he would punish them in some other way. Scarcely
had the giant uttered these words before their faces began to sting, their pores opened, and
when the duennas put their hands to their faces, they felt themselves punished in a most horrifying
manner.

Here the thirteen duennas raised their veils, and the Duke and his company were amazed to see
that all the women were bearded. The Distressed Duenna raised a wail, and assured those present
that had it not been that she had cried so much that she had no tears left, she would now shed
them copiously, and she exclaimed: "Where, I ask, can a duenna with a beard go? What father
or mother will pity her? Who will help her? For, if even when she has a smooth skin and a face
tortured by a thousand kinds of cosmetics, she can hardly get anybody to love her, what will
she do when she shows a countenance turned into a thicket? O duennas! It was an unlucky moment
when we were born and when our fathers begot us!"

As the unhappy duenna spoke these words, it seemed as if she were about to faint. With a deep
and distressing moan, she covered her face with her hands. Did not the enchanter know that
it cost money to shave? In Sancho's opinion, it would have been infinitely better to have taken
off a part of their noses, even if it would have given them an impediment of speech. The duennas
replied that some of them had tried sticking-plaster in order to spare themselves the expense
of shaving, but to jerk it off their faces, was a painful procedure, they said.

Don Quixote interrupted and declared that they would have to follow no such course, for he
would rid them of their beards or he would pluck out his own in the land of the Moors. Such
a noble declaration seemed to revive the Distressed Duenna. She came up to Don Quixote and
told him that the giant Malambruno had been courteous enough to offer to send the famous wooden
steed that the valiant Pierres used. Merlin had made it. This horse could go through the air
with a speed that carried its rider to the ends of the world overnight. It was steered by a
peg in his forehead, she said, and this peg also served as a bridle. Furthermore, there was
room for two--one in the saddle, and one on the croup. Let each one shave himself as best he
can; I am not going to be bruised to get rid of any one's beard."

But Countess Trifaldi insisted that Panza was indispensable to the shaving of the duennas;
and when the Duchess had pleaded with him and he saw the Distressed Duenna's eyes fill with
tears, he could hardly keep his own back. He bent to their will and resigned himself to his
fate and the adventure of riding through the air on the croup of the mighty wooden steed.

CHAPTER XLI

THE END OF THIS PROTRACTED ADVENTURE

Don Quixote was in a state of anxiety during the whole day for fear that Malambruno should
not send the steed, but soon after nightfall there arrived in the garden four wild-men, clad
in ivy, and carrying on their shoulders a large wooden horse. Don Quixote was summoned by the
Distressed Duenna and he mounted the horse at once, not even putting on his spurs. By this
time, however, Sancho had changed his mind and decided that he was not going to fly through
the air like a witch. But upon the earnest and courteous solicitations of the Duke, Sancho
at last consented to ride with his master.

Don Quixote begged Sancho to give himself five hundred lashes on behalf of his enchanted Dulcinea
before they set off; but this request struck the squire as the absurdest one he had ever heard.
How could his master expect him to sit on a hard wooden horse while he was all bruised and
sore from the lashes? He did promise solemnly, however, that as soon as the duennas had been
shaved he would turn to the fulfilling of the other debt.

The Distressed Duenna blindfolded them, saying that doing so would prevent them from getting
dizzy when they rose to great heights; and Sancho, trembling and tearful, complained that the
croup was too hard and begged for a cushion. But the duenna answered him that the magic steed
permitted no trappings of any kind, and she suggested that he place himself sideways like a
woman, for no doubt he would feel the hardness less in that position.

Sancho did so; and then he uncovered his eyes and looked in a tender fashion on those he was
leaving behind, and began to cry piteously. Don Quixote told him sharply to cover his eyes
again and not to act like a fool and a coward; and his squire did as he was bidden, after having
commended himself to God and begged the duennas to pray all the paternosters and ave-marias
they could for him. They in turn admonished him to stick tight to the croup and not to lose
hold of it, warning him that if he fell, he would fall like a planet and be blinded by all
the stars he would meet on his way down to Earth.

Sobbing, Sancho clung to his master, embracing him with his fat arms so tightly that Don Quixote
came near being upset. The knight took a firm grip on the steering peg, and reprimanded his
squire for squeezing him. He told him there was nothing to worry about, for it seemed to him
he had never in his life ridden a steed that was so easy-going: one would hardly think they
had budged from their original place, he said. When Sancho had calmed himself, he concurred
in this opinion. He had never heard that there were people living in the air, and did he not
hear voices quite close to his ears? Don Quixote then had to explain that affairs of this sort
were not of the every-day kind, and that whenever one went on a trip like this, the voices
from the Earth would reach thousands of leagues away.

Scarcely had Don Quixote said this, before a gust of wind came that threatened to unseat both
the knight and his squire. (The fact was that it was the draught from a tremendous pair of
bellows which the Duke had had unearthed for the occasion.) Sancho was shaking in his seat,
and Don Quixote warned him again to sit still, for they were in danger of having a runaway
straight into the regions of air and thunder, and then into the region of fire. He feared he
might not get the steed to turn before it was too late, he said; for it seemed as if the machinery
of the peg were rather intricate, and did not work quickly.

Suddenly Sancho began to yell that they were already lost in the flames, and would be burned
to death. (He felt his beard being singed by a torch. It was one of a great number that the
majordomo had provided.) Don Quixote, too, felt his face warm up. But he would not permit Sancho
to uncover his eyes; if he did, the knight said he would only be seized with giddiness and
both of them would fall off their horse. Besides, he comforted Sancho with the thought that
the journey would last only a few moments longer, and that they were now passing a final test
before landing in the kingdom of Kandy. Don Quixote added that the distance they had traveled
must have been tremendous, and Sancho replied: "All I know is that if the Señora Magallanes
or Magalona was satisfied with this croup, she could not have been very tender of flesh."

At this moment came the culmination of their journey through the air. A torch was tied to the
tail of the steed, which was stuffed with fire-crackers, and suddenly there was a tremendous
noise and a flash, and in the next moment Don Quixote and Sancho Panza, both scorched, lay
as if thunderstruck on the ground.

When the knight and his squire finally came to, and looked about, they were aghast at what
they saw. The ground was strewn with bodies, but the bearded duennas were gone. Planted in
the ground they saw a lance, attached to which they found a parchment which proclaimed that
the enchantment of the duennas and of the Don and his royal bride was at an end, and that as
soon as the squire Sancho Panza deigned to carry out the flogging he was to give himself, the
peerless Dulcinea would appear in all her original beauty again.

Now the Duke and the Duchess, who were among the bodies lying on the ground, seemingly dead,
lifted up their heads, as if just coming out of a long sleep; and Don Quixote hastened to tell
them of the great miracle that had befallen him. They were both convulsed with laughter--which
Don Quixote mistook for emotion--and when he had finished telling them about his marvelous
adventure, they had all they could do to reply. The Duke finally gathered enough strength to
embrace him and tell him that he was no doubt the greatest knight the world had ever known.

The Duchess was curious to know how Sancho had enjoyed the trip; and he confessed that in spite
of his master's command he had peered from underneath the kerchief before his eyes, and had
seen the earth below, and that the people seemed as little as hazelnuts and the earth itself
looked like a grain of mustard-seed; and when he passed through the region of fire he had seen
the goats of heaven, he said. So Sancho was told to prepare himself.

But Sancho, having seen heaven, seemed less keen to be governor now, since he felt how small
humanity really was, particularly in comparison with the goats of the sky which he claimed
he had seen, and he replied that he would much rather have a bit of heaven than any island
on earth. The Duke, however, told Sancho that, not being the ruler there, it was for God to
dispose of such domains. So Sancho promised to come down to earth and be governor, and to attire
himself in the regalia befitting the office.

This being done, Don Quixote and Sancho withdrew to the knight's room, and there Don Quixote
gave his squire advice about governing. He admonished him to be a champion of virtue always,
to strive to know himself and not to puff himself up like a peacock, whose feathers, he bade
him remember, were fine, but who had ugly feet. And the advice and instructions that master
gave servant were such that no one would have thought it was a madman speaking. The latter,
he said, must be neat and never showy. If he could do with three servants instead of six, he
advised him to clothe three poor men: thus he would have pages for heaven as well as for earth.
He must never eat garlic or onions, the knight said, and he begged him to leave out all affectations.
When it came to drinking, he asked him always to bear in mind that too much wine kept neither
secrets nor promises. Another thing he must not do was to flatter people; Don Quixote considered
this a very odious practice. Last, but not least, said Don Quixote, he must remember not to
use such quantities of proverbs as he had been wont to.

Here Sancho felt he had to break in and say a word, and he retorted: "God alone can cure that,
for I have more proverbs in me than a book, and when I speak they fall to fighting among themselves
to get out; that's why my tongue lets fly the first that comes, though it may not be pat to
the purpose." And here Sancho in the very face of his master's admonitions, let go a string
of proverbs so long that Don Quixote was almost in despair.

"My mother beats me, and I go on with my tricks," said Don Quixote. Those proverbs will bring
thee to the gallows some day, I promise thee." To escort the new governor to the village the
Duke had chosen the majordomo, who had played the part of the Countess Trifaldi; and the moment
Sancho saw his face and heard him speak, he confided to his master the resemblance in voice
and appearance.

Always suspicious of enchanters, Don Quixote bade his late squire to keep a sharp eye on the
man, and to be sure to inform him whether anything happened that confirmed his suspicion.

Then Sancho was dressed in the garb of a lawyer and mounted on a mule. Dapple followed behind
with new trappings, and Sancho was so pleased with the appearance of Dapple that he could not
help turning around from time to time to look at him. Don Quixote wept when it came to the
leave-taking, and Sancho kissed devotedly the hands of the Duchess and the Duke.

But as soon as Sancho had left, Don Quixote felt a great loneliness in his heart; and that
night, after having supped with the ducal pair, he begged to be excused early and retired to
his room, saying he wanted no servant to wait on him.

He undressed at once, and went to bed, leaving the window overlooking the garden open. Soon
he heard the voices of two young maidens, and he was surprised to hear that they were speaking
of him. One of them he recognized as the fair Altisidora, and, persuaded by the other voice,
she commenced to serenade the knight, to whom in her song she bared her aching heart, and the
passion that burned there for him.

But the knight could not be moved. His was a love for no one but his Dulcinea. To indicate
to the young maiden that he was aware of her intentions and could not be swayed, he rose from
his bed, and went to the window and feigned a sneeze. When that was of no avail and neither
produced reticence in the maidens nor drove them away from his window, he sighed: "O what an
unlucky knight I am that no damsel can set eyes on me but falls in love with me!"

Then the worthy knight shut his window with a bang, and thrust himself on his bed, entirely
out of patience with the enticing and sinful young maidens. He was greeted with great demonstrations:
the whole community had turned out to meet him, and all the churchbells were ringing. He was
first taken to the church, where he gave thanks to God; then he was presented with the keys
of the town. From the church he was taken to the judgment seat outside, and there he was told
to answer numerous questions which the majordomo put to him, saying that that was an ancient
custom on taking office.

The questions were cases of quarrels between the villagers, and Sancho answered each one of
them so sagely that every one gaped in wonder, for, judging by his appearance and the way he
talked, they had thought their governor a fool. Instead of thinking thus, they now began to
admire him and to consider themselves lucky and blessed by having him in their midst. He had
torn his green stockings, while undressing, and having neither needle nor thread he could not
mend them, and this increased his annoyance. Soon it was morning, and to put an end to his
agony, he rose and dressed himself. But on his way to the ante-chamber, where the Duke and
Duchess would receive him, he passed through a gallery, where he was surprised to find the
fair Altisidora and her friend who had been with her outside his window the night before.

When Altisidora laid eyes on the knight errant, she fell in a dead faint, but was caught in
the arms of her friend, who began to unlace her dress. Don Quixote remained cold and untouched,
mumbling all the while to himself that he knew perfectly well why she had fainted. Her friend
retorted with venom in her voice that she wished he would disappear from the castle, for if
he remained there much longer Altisidora would be wasting away into nothingness--even if she
were the healthiest and most buxom maiden there at the moment--and die from a broken heart.
This seemed to touch Don Quixote, for he replied that if she would see to it that a lute was
put in his room that night, he would sing to her and try to comfort her in the night while
she stood outside his window.

The damsels went at once to tell the Duchess what had happened, and she was pleased beyond
words; and together they hit upon a new joke which would bring them fresh merriment.

Just before midnight Don Quixote came to his chamber and found there a guitar; and, having
tuned it as best he could, he began to let out his rusty voice into the notes of a ballad that
he himself had composed that day. While he stood there on his balcony singing, there suddenly
broke out a tremendous din; and from above was let down a cord to which hundreds of bells were
attached, making the most deafening sound. At the same time a bag of cats, each with a bell
tied to its tail, came shooting down upon the unfortunate knight, who was frightened beyond
words by the meowing and squalling and screaming of the cats and by the jingling of the bells.

Don Quixote stood paralyzed, with the guitar clutched in his hand, when suddenly it struck
him that his room must have been invaded by jumping devils--for the cats had knocked the candles
down on the floor, extinguishing them as they did so, and the room was now in pitch darkness.
He suddenly flung his guitar away and drew his sword, charging the enchanters with all the
fervor and energy that he possessed.

All the cats flew toward the balcony, from where they escaped into the garden--all except one,
which Don Quixote had cornered, and was making violent stabs at, without hitting anything but
the air, the wall and the floor. This little beast, fighting for its life, like one beset,
jumped at the knight, put its teeth and claws into his nose, and remained there, holding on
infuriated, while Don Quixote gave out the most terrible screams and howls.

When the Duke and the Duchess heard what was going on, they became afraid that some harm might
be done the knight errant; so they ran to his chamber with all haste. The Duke rushed to the
rescue of Don Quixote's nose; but in spite of the horrible pain he must have been in, the knight
was brave enough to decline all aid, shouting aloud that he wished to fight the malignant enchanter
alone. At last, however, the Duke could see the poor fellow suffer no longer, and he managed
to separate the cat from Don Quixote's nose.

The fair Altisidora was given the task to cover the damaged parts of the knight's face with
ointment, and she did this with a loving and caressing hand, although she could not resist
telling him that he would not have been in this predicament if he had listened to her the night
before. She jealously hoped, too, that his squire Sancho would forget all about the whippings
so that Dulcinea would remain enchanted forever. But Don Quixote was insensible to anything
she said; he only sighed and sighed. And then he thanked the Duke and the Duchess for all their
kindness; and they really felt sorry in their hearts for the end the joke had taken. They bade
him good-night; he stretched himself on his bed; and there he remained for five days. There
were numerous ceremonies that he had to pass through as he entered; but he went through them
all undisturbed and with phlegmatic dignity. He was seated at the head of the table, his own
guest of honor as it were, for he found he was the only one present there, excepting a number
of pages who surrounded him. But then he discovered behind himself a gentleman who turned out
to be a physician, and who soon aroused Sancho's ire. For every time a dish was passed to Sancho,
it had first to be passed upon by the physician; and this dignitary seemed to have made up
his mind that governors were not meant to live, for every dish was sent back to the kitchen,
and Sancho found that a governor's meal consisted in starvation.

This finally enraged the new governor so that he ordered the doctor out of his sight, threatening
to break a chair over his head if he did not disappear quickly enough; but just at that moment
there arrived a messenger with a letter for the Governor from the Duke, and Sancho became so
excited that he forgot about his physician's expulsion for the moment. The majordomo read the
letter, which was addressed to the Governor of the Island of Barataria. In it the Duke warned
Sancho that attacks would be made upon the island some night in the near future by enemies
of the Duke, and also, the Duke said, he had learned that four men had entered the town in
disguise, and that they would make an attempt upon the Governor's life. He therefore cautioned
Sancho to eat nothing that was offered to him.

At once Sancho decided that the worst conspirator against his life was the physician, who wanted
to kill him by the slow death of hunger. He said he thought it best to have him thrust into
a dungeon. And then he asked for a piece of bread and four pounds of grapes, feeling sure that
no poison would be in them, announcing at the same time as his maxim that if he were going
to be able to combat enemies he would have to be well fed.

He then turned to the messenger and bade him say to the Duke that his wishes would be obeyed;
at the same time he sent a request to the Duchess that she should not forget to have the letter
he had written to his Teresa Panza delivered, together with the bundle, by a messenger. Last
but not least, he asked to be remembered to his beloved master Don Quixote by a kiss of the hand.

CHAPTERS XLVIII-XLIX

OF WHAT HAPPENED TO SANCHO IN MAKING THE ROUND OF HIS ISLAND

At last the physician felt it to his advantage to consent to prescribe a good supper for the
Governor that evening. The day had been taken up with all sorts of applicants, who, it seemed
to Sancho, would always arrive at the wrong time, either when he was about to eat or wanted
to sleep.

The supper hour, which Sancho had been longing for all that day arrived at last, and he was
delighted with the beef, salad, onions, and calves' feet that were put before him. He told
the doctor that for the future he ought never to trouble himself about giving him dainty dishes
and choice food to eat, for it would only unhinge his stomach. Nay, make yourself honey and
the flies will eat you."

In reply to this the head-carver took it upon himself to speak for the rest of the inhabitants
on the island, assuring Sancho that every one was greatly pleased with his mild government,
and that he already stood high in their affections.

This brought forth a declaration from Sancho that if the people were not pleased with his government,
they would be fools; and then he went on to state that he intended to see to it himself that
the island was purged of everything unclean and of all idlers and vagabonds. The latter he
compared to the drones in a hive, that eat up the honey the industrious bees make. Furthermore,
he emphasized that he would encourage and reward the virtuous, and protect the church and its
ministers.

The majordomo was genuinely filled with admiration for all the excellent ideas and remarks
of the new governor, particularly when he considered that he was a man without either education
or culture; and he could not help admitting to himself that even a joke could sometimes become
a reality, and that those who had played a joke on some one might live to find themselves the
victims of the very same joke.

That night the Governor as usual made his rounds, accompanied by the majordomo and his whole
staff, including the chronicler, who was to record the deeds of Governor Don Sancho Panza;
and before the night was over he had given fresh proof of his wisdom, for he settled a quarrel
between two gamblers and decided to break up gambling on his island. He kept a youth out of
jail. And he restored a young girl, who wanted to see the world as a boy, to her father.

CHAPTER L

WHEREIN IS SET FORTH HOW GOVERNOR SANCHO PANZA'S WIFE RECEIVED A MESSAGE AND A GIFT FROM THE
DUCHESS; AND ALSO WHAT BEFELL THE PAGE WHO CARRIED THE LETTER TO TERESA PANZA

The Duchess did not forget her promise, and she sent the page who had played the part of Dulcinea
when the Devil entered a plea for her disenchantment, with Governor Sancho's letter and bundle
to his wife. At the same time the Duchess entrusted him with a string of coral beads as a gift
from herself to Teresa Panza, with which gift went a letter as well.

When the page reached the village of La Mancha he saw, on entering it, some women washing clothes
in a brook; and he found that one of them was no other than the Governor's young daughter.
She eagerly ran to the good-looking young man, and, breathless with excitement at the thought
of his having news from her father, she skipped along in front of him until they had reached
their little house.

Teresa Panza was spinning, and she came out in a gray petticoat, vigorous, sunburnt and healthy,
and wanted to know what all the excitement was about. The page quickly jumped from his horse,
thrust himself on his knees before her, and exclaimed to the bewildered woman: "Let me kiss
your hand, Señora Doña Panza, as the lawful and only wife of Señor Don Sancho Panza, rightful
governor of the island of Barataria."

But by this time the poor woman had got over her first surprise, and she bade him rise, saying
that he should not do things like that, and that she was only a poor country woman, and the
wife of a squire errant, not a governor. However, when the page had given her the letters and
the gifts, her doubts were crushed, and she decided that Sancho's master must have given her
husband the government he had promised him, the one that Sancho had been talking about all
the time. And then she asked the page to read the letters to her, since she herself had not
learned that art, although she could spin, she said.

When the page had finished reading the Duchess' letter, poor Teresa Panza was overcome with
gratitude to the gracious lady who had made her husband, a poor illiterate booby, governor--and
a good one besides--and who had deigned to ask her, humble woman that she was, for a couple
of dozen or so of acorns.

"Ah, what a good, plain, lowly lady!" she exclaimed.

Then she told her Sanchica to make ready a meal, with plenty of eggs and bacon, for the lad
who had brought them such good news, while she herself ran out and told the neighbors of their
great luck. Soon Samson Carrasco and the curate came to the house, having heard the news, and
wanted to know what madness had taken possession of Sancho's wife. But when they had read the
letters and had seen the presents, they themselves were perplexed, and did not know what to
make of it; and when they had met the page and he had confirmed everything that was said in
the letters, they were convinced, although they were at a loss to understand how it all had
come to happen.

The Duchess' asking for a few acorns, they could not quite comprehend, but even this was soon
explained, for the page assured them that his lady, the Duchess, was so plain and unassuming
that she had even been known to have borrowed a comb from a peasant-woman neighbor on one occasion;
and he added that the ladies of Aragon were not nearly as stiff and arrogant as those of Castile.

Sanchica's greatest concern centered around her father's legs. She was anxious to learn how
he covered them, now that he had become governor. She was hoping that he would wear trunk-hose,
for she had always had a secret longing, she said, to see her father in tights; "What a sight
he must be in them!" she added.

The page replied that he had not observed her father's legs or how they were dressed; but the
joking way in which he gave his answer furnished the curate and the bachelor with a fresh doubt
as to the reality of the governorship and Sancho's position. Yet they could not forget the
coral beads and the fine hunting-suit that the page had brought, and which pointed to some
truth in the matter.

Sanchica was anxious to make the trip to her father's island at once with the messenger, who
told them he had to leave that evening; and Teresa Panza wanted to know whether the curate
had heard of any one in the village going to Madrid or Toledo, for she thought that she at
least ought to provide herself with a hooped petticoat, now that she was the wife of a distinguished
governor and no doubt destined to be made a countess.

And while mother and daughter were contemplating and worrying about their new position in life,
they interspersed their sentences with so many proverbs that the curate felt obliged to remark
that he thought that all the Panzas were born with a sackful of proverbs in their insides.
The page told them here that the Governor uttered them most frequently and spontaneously, much
to the amusement of the Duke and the Duchess; and then he reminded the Governor's lady of his
hunger. But the curate softly took him by the arm and whispered to him that poor Teresa Panza
had more will to serve than she had means, and invited him to sup at his own house.

In order not to lose weight or starve, the page consented; and the curate was glad to have
an opportunity to talk with him alone.

Sanchica again expressed her desire to travel with the page; and the page tried to persuade
her not to come along, for, he said, the daughters of governors must travel in a coach and
in style, with many attendants. The girl thought that was nonsense, however, and it was not
until her mother hushed her up with her proverbial logic that she ceased arguing. Said mother
Teresa Panza to her daughter: "As the time so the behavior: when it was Sancho it was Sanchica,
when it is governor it is señorita." And that settled it.

The bachelor offered to write letters for Teresa Panza to her husband and the Duchess; but,
somehow, she did not seem to trust him, for she refused his offer. Instead she induced a young
acolyte to write the epistles for her, paying him with the eggs which she was to have used
for the page's supper.

CHAPTER LI

OF THE PROGRESS OF SANCHO'S GOVERNMENT; AND OTHER SUCH ENTERTAINING MATTERS

The thing that troubled Sancho most was not his manifold duties nor his judgments, but his
appetite. It was as keen as ever, yet he got next to nothing to eat. The morning after he had
made his round, they gave him only some water and a little conserve for breakfast, the doctor
advising him that light food was the most nourishing for the wits, and especially to be recommended
to people who were placed in responsible positions--such as governors, for instance. Thus poor
Sancho was persuaded to submit to a process of starvation which was gradually making him regret,
and finally curse, his ever having become governor.

He sat in judgment that day but a short time, and made a decision in an intricate case with
so much good sense and wit that the majordomo was overwhelmed with admiration, and could not
refrain from taking pity on the governor's stomach. So he stood up and announced, knowing it
would have the Governor's immediate and unqualified sanction, that the session had come to
an end for the morning; then turning to Sancho, he promised to give him a dinner that day that
would please him.

Sancho was grateful in advance, and felt moved to thank him. "That is all I ask for," he declared:
"fair play! Give me my dinner, and then let it rain cases and questions on me, and I shall
despatch them in a twinkling." And since it had been arranged by the conspirators in the joke
that this was to be the last day of Sancho Panza's reign as governor, the majordomo gave him
the best dinner that he could.

Just as the Governor was finishing his repast a courier arrived with a letter from Don Quixote.
The secretary read it aloud to him, and he listened attentively and respectfully to the wisdom
and good and sound advice that his beloved Don Quixote gave him in the letter. All who heard
it read were agreed that they had seldom had the fortune to hear such a well-worded and thoroughly
sensible epistle; and Sancho was proud of the praise that was being bestowed on his former
master, to whom he still was as devoted as ever.

The Governor withdrew with his secretary into his own room, and there he dictated at once his
reply to Don Quixote's letter. In this he confided to him all that had happened on his island,
the reforms he had undertaken, and the judgments he had handed down. He finished by asking
the knight to kiss the hand of the sweet Duchess for him and tell her that she had not thrown
it into a sack with a hole in it, as she would see in the end: meaning by this that he would
show her how grateful he was as soon as he had an opportunity.

The courier returned to the ducal palace with the Governor's message; and Sancho spent the
afternoon in making provisions for all sorts of beneficial improvements in his government,
reducing prices on a number of necessaries, and confirming laws that tended to help the poor
and needy, while they would incriminate those who were impostors, good-for-nothings, and vagabonds.
But the day he had decided to break the news to the Duke and the Duchess, the messenger that
the Duchess had sent to Sancho's wife returned, bringing with him two letters, one addressed
to "The Duchess So-and-so, of I don't know where," and the other one to "The Governor, Sancho
Panza of the Island of Barataria, whom God prosper longer than me!"

The Duchess was so eager to read her letter that she opened it at once; and having read it
to herself, she felt she ought to give amusement to the others too, so she read it aloud to
all who were there. She was dying to see what the letter to the Governor contained, so she
asked Don Quixote whether he thought it would be a breach of etiquette to read it; and Don
Quixote took it upon himself, as Sancho's late master and guardian, to open it. Then he read
it to the Duke and the Duchess, who laughed to their heart's content at the many drolleries
with which Teresa Panza had stuffed her epistle.

Just as the merriment was at its peak, the courier with Sancho Panza's reply to Don Quixote
arrived, and that communication too was read aloud; and the Duke could not omit remarking that
it was a most excellent and sane letter. The Duchess, however, was anxious to question the
page about his visit with Teresa Panza, so she excused herself, and withdrew with the page
and her presents; for, besides the acorns, the Governor's wife had sent her a cheese, much
to the gratification of the Duchess. The Governor lay in his bed, resting after all the judgments
and proclamations he had made that day upon a fasting stomach. Suddenly he rose in his bed,
for he heard the most deafening noise, intermingled with the ringing of churchbells. To this
sound was added that of trumpets and drums, and the combination made a din that frightened
Sancho almost out of his wits. He flew out of bed, put on a pair of slippers, and rushed into
the street, dressed in nothing but his night shirt. He was startled to see the streets crowded
with men, carrying torches, and crying: "To arms, Señor Governor, to arms! The enemy is here,
and we are lost, unless you come to the rescue with your sword!"

Sancho was lost; he did not know what to do, for swordsmanship was not among his accomplishments.
And so he simply asked them whether the enemy could not wait until he had a chance to summon
his master Don Quixote of La Mancha, who, he said, knew all about arms.

Just then one of the inhabitants came along, carrying two shields, and without any ceremony
he told Sancho in plain language that it was his duty as their governor to lead them into battle.
Then he covered him--without giving him a chance to put on anything besides his night-shirt--with
the two shields, one in front and the other one behind; pressing them together as tightly as
he and another man could manage, they laced them with rope, so that Sancho could neither move
a muscle, nor bend a leg. Then they put a lance in his hand and told him to lead them into
battle against the enemy, for now they were no longer afraid of the outcome, they said.

"How am I to march, unlucky being that I am," asked Sancho, "when I cannot stir my knee-caps
for these boards that are bound so tightly to my body! What you must do is to carry me in your
arms, and lay me across or set me upright in some postern, and I shall hold it either with
this lance or with my body."

When the men heard the Governor speak thus, one of them was bold enough to suggest that he
could not move because he was too frightened; and this angered poor Sancho into a frantic attempt
to take a step in the direction of the invading army. But this step was a fatal one, for the
Governor fell in his undignified stiffness flat on his back with such a crash that he thought
he had broken every bone in his body.

The men now quickly extinguished their torches, and began to step on his shield, slashing their
swords over his head, shouting and yelling, and making all the noise they could. Had Sancho
not pulled in his head like a tortoise in his shell, he might have fared ill. One man boldly
placed himself on Sancho's roof, calling in a mighty voice, now and then filled with an agonized
grunt, such directions as these: "Hold the breach there! Shut the gate! Barricade those ladders!
Block the streets with feather-beds! Here with your stink-pots of pitch and resin, and kettles
of boiling oil!"

All these exclamations put fear in the already hard-pressed and squeezed heart of Sancho Panza,
who was wishing where he lay that he had never seen the sight of an island. He was in such
an agony that he began to pray to the Lord in Heaven to have mercy on him and let him die,
or else let this terrible strife and warfare come to an end.

Heaven must have heard Sancho's prayer, for suddenly he heard cries of: "Victory! Victory!
The enemy retreats!" Then some one jerked him by the arm, and told him to stand up and enjoy
the victory; and finally some of the bystanders took pity on him, and lifted him up from his
vertical position. But Sancho refused to enjoy any victory. All he asked for, he said, was
that some one wipe the perspiration from his body, and give him some wine for his parched throat.
When they had fulfilled this desire of his, they carried him to his chamber, were they put
him to bed. Hardly had they got him to bed before he fainted away, overcome with excitement
and governments.

The attendants sprinkled some water in the Governor's face, and he soon came back to life.
The first thing he asked was what time it was. They replied it was early morning. He rose without
saying a word, dressed himself in haste, and then went out to the stable, where they found
him hanging round his Dapple's neck, kissing and embracing him, while tears were streaming
down his face. Having swallowed the first flood of tears, the late squire addressed his faithful
donkey in the tenderest and most heartrending terms, telling him that he should have stuck
by him all the time, and not let himself be carried away by ambitions to become governor of
islands.

Sancho then put the pack-saddle on Dapple's back, and mounted--a process of much pain--and
from his dear confederate's back he addressed the majordomo and those of his staff who had
followed him to the stable.

Here the doctor offered to give the retiring governor a draught that would cure him of all
pain. He also promised Sancho if he would stay he would behave better in the future, and give
him as much to eat as he desired. But Sancho was not at a loss for an answer this time.

"You spoke late," said he. "I should as soon turn Turk as stay any longer. Those jokes will
not pass a second time.

After this meditation, strung with proverbs, the majordomo turned to Sancho and said that before
he departed it was necessary that he render an account for the ten days that he had governed
the island. But this was not Sancho's idea, and he quickly replied that he would seek out the
Duke and give an accounting to him, for he was the only one to whom he was responsible. He
added that as he would come to him naked, that would be the best proof that he had governed
like an angel.

So they all agreed to let him proceed, for they were certain that the Duke would be delighted
to see him. They offered him anything that he might need for the journey; but all Sancho asked
for was some barley for his Dapple, and some bread and cheese for himself. Then they all bade
him godspeed and embraced him; and Sancho, with tears in his eyes, took leave of them. The
majordomo and the rest of Sancho's staff could not help thinking that he had displayed more
sense than most men might have under the same circumstances; for when Sancho left his government
he had earned their admiration for many and good reasons.

CHAPTERS LIV-LV

OF WHAT BEFELL SANCHO ON THE ROAD; AND OTHER THINGS THAT CANNOT BE SURPASSED

Sancho had almost reached the Duke's castle, when night suddenly fell and it grew so dark that
he considered it best to stop where he was and remain there overnight. Accordingly he took
Dapple off the road, and they went in search for some comfortable place where they could rest.
Presently Sancho found himself among some old ruins, and as he was stumbling along he suddenly
felt himself and Dapple falling deep into the earth. He thought it was going to be an endless
journey, but when he struck bottom he discovered that nothing had happened to him or to his
faithful donkey, for there he was, still mounted even.

Of course he was somewhat shaken by this sudden plunge into the lower regions, and taken aback;
but as soon as he realized that he was unhurt he began to praise the Lord and to give thanks
to him on behalf of himself and Dapple, who had burst into lamentations upon finding himself
separated from meadow and green grass. Then Sancho began to look about for a way out, but he
searched in vain, and it became plain to him that here he was buried alive. He thought of his
master's descent into the cave of Montesinos, and was envious of Don Quixote's imagination
which could conjure up so easily soft beds to sleep in and good food to eat. He could already
see himself as a skeleton, and he shed a tear when he thought of having no one to close his
or Dapple's eyes, when they had breathed their last breath.

All that night they sat there in somber reflection on the strange fates of man and beast; and
when dawn came Sancho found that he was in a cave that had no outlet but which seemed to extend
for miles underneath the ground. He crawled with Dapple from one cavern or compartment to another
one; one dungeon was dark, the next one had a bit of flickering light; and as he proceeded
he kept calling aloud, "God Almighty, help me!" at every step he took, fearing that he would
be plunged still deeper into the insides of the earth, into still darker abysses. And then
he wished that it had been his master instead of himself who had landed in this spot, for he
was sure that Don Quixote would have welcomed such an adventure.

It so happened that Don Quixote was riding along the countryside that day on Rocinante, and
suddenly his steed's hoof grazed against a hole in the earth. Rocinante might have fallen into
the hole had not Don Quixote swiftly pulled in the reins and held him back. As the knight was
passing, and about to continue on his journey, he turned in his seat to observe the spot well,
and then he was startled by a cry that seemed to come from the depths of the earth and found
an outlet through this pit. Still more startled he was, when he recognized the voice of his
own squire Sancho!

Of course it never entered our valiant knight's mind, devout Catholic that he was, that it
was the voice of any Sancho Panza in the flesh. He thought that his devoted squire had suddenly
met with death, and that his soul was now in Purgatory, and that it was from there that these
sounds emanated. So he answered that he would do all in his power to have Sancho released from
his pains.

This brought forth an emphatic and tearful denial from below. Sancho swore that he had never
died in his life. As if to corroborate that his master was not a liar, Dapple at this moment
brayed most tellingly, and Don Quixote believed everything that Dapple told him in that short
space of time, for Don Quixote knew Dapple's braying as well as if he had been his father.
The knight errant assured Sancho that he would get him out of his prison in a very short time,
though he thought it best to return to the castle first and get some men to help him in the
task. Sancho begged his master to hurry, for he was afraid unto death, and could not stand
the thought of being buried there much longer.

As soon as the Duke heard what had happened to his governor, he was extremely surprised, for
he had had no news from the island of Barataria about Sancho's departure. He sent men with
ropes and tackle, and after much trouble they finally succeeded in hoisting Sancho and his
beloved donkey out of the cave.

Surrounded by a crowd of children and others, they arrived at the castle, where the Duke was
awaiting them; but Sancho would not present himself before him until he had seen that Dapple
was being taken good care of in the stable. Then he went before the Duke, and as soon as the
Duke had greeted him, Sancho commenced a speech that seemed to last forever, stuffed with proverbs
galore.

The Duke and the Duchess both embraced Sancho with warmth, and he was greatly touched when
they told him that they would try to find him another position, less responsible but more profitable,
on their estate; and they gave orders that he was to be well taken care of and his wounds and
bruises properly and carefully bandaged.

CHAPTERS LVI-LVII

WHICH TREATS OF HOW DON QUIXOTE AGAIN FELT THE CALLING OF KNIGHT-ERRANTRY AND HOW HE TOOK LEAVE
OF THE DUKE, AND OF WHAT FOLLOWED WITH THE WITTY AND IMPUDENT ALTISIDORA, ONE OF THE DUCHESS'
DAMSELS

Again the feeling came over Don Quixote that he was wasting his life while he was staying at
the castle in luxury and ease as the Duke's guest. Out yonder was the great, wide world in
which adventures were calling to him all the time. So it finally came about that after much
hesitation he requested of the Duke and his consort that they grant him his release. They gave
it to him, although they were sorry to see him go, they said.

Early the following morning Sancho was soliloquizing in the courtyard of the castle, when suddenly
Don Quixote appeared, in full regalia, ready to take to the road again for new adventures.
The Duke and all in the castle were observing the departure from the corridors. Unobserved
by Don Quixote, the majordomo gave Sancho a purse, in which he counted no less than two hundred
gold crowns.

When knight and squire had mounted, the fair Altisidora declaimed with touching voice some
verses of poetry which she had written in the night, and in which she bewailed her cruel fate
that had thrust her in the path of the valorous Don Quixote. Each verse ended with a denunciation
of his coldness toward her, and a curse upon him and his Dulcinea. Then the daring maiden had
inserted lines in which she accused the innocent knight of having taken possession of three
kerchiefs and a pair of garters belonging to her. Don Quixote blushed with perplexity, but
his squire came to the rescue and said that he had the kerchiefs, but knew nothing about the
garters. The Duke, who was well initiated in the joke, now rose and announced that it was beginning
to seem like a serious matter; and if the knight had the garters and did not wish to part with
them, he, the Duke, would have to defend the fair maiden's honor and challenge him to single
combat.

Now Don Quixote was beside himself. Surely, he said, it would never occur to him, who had enjoyed
such unbounded, superlative hospitality at the hands of one so illustrious as the Duke, to
let such things come to pass as to bear arms against him; and he swore again by everything
he could think of that he was innocent of what the maiden had inferred. Here the damsel gave
a little shriek, and announced in a giggling voice that she had found the garters. Don Quixote
was much relieved, and so seemed the Duke (though in reality both he and the Duchess were just
about to burst from the pain that their own joke had inflicted upon them).

Now the knight errant could depart without any smudge or stain on his honor, and quickly and
resolutely he gave Rocinante the spur, and his steed gathered all the strength he had and turned
around. Gallantly saluting the Duke and the whole assembly with a sweep of his lance, Don Quixote
set off on the road to Saragossa, followed by the retired governor, who sat on his Dapple's
back as phlegmatically as if the two were grown together. And he ended by saying: "Happy he
to whom Heaven has given a piece of bread for which he is not bound to give thanks to any but
Heaven itself!"

Here Sancho broke his silence, for he felt that, in spite of what his master had just said,
a good deal of thanks was due to the majordomo for the purse with the two hundred crowns, which
he was carrying like a plaster next to his heart.

While they were conversing thus, they suddenly came to a spot from where they could see a great
many men, dressed like laborers, lying on the grass of a meadow, and partaking of their noonday
meal. Here and there on the grass were scattered some objects or figures covered with white
cloth, and as soon as Don Quixote observed them he could constrain himself no longer but had
to learn what they were. So he politely approached the men and asked them what was hidden underneath
the white coverings, and was told that they were images of saints that they were transporting
to their village church; and in order not to soil them, they had covered them thus.

The man took great pride in showing our knight the figures--there were Saint George, Saint
Martin, Saint James the Moorslayer, and Saint Paul. Don Quixote spoke learnedly on each one
of them. When he had seen them all, he bade the men cover the images with the cloths again.
Then he declared that he considered it a happy omen to have come upon the images; for, said
he, they were knights like himself. There was this difference, however, that while he fought
with human weapons, poor sinner that he was, they used divine ones. And he added that if only
his Dulcinea could be saved from her sufferings, perhaps his own mind might be restored to
its proper function, and a desire for a milder and better life than he was leading now be the
result. At this Sancho reverently chirped: "May God hear and sin be deaf!"

The men, having finished their repast, took leave of Don Quixote and Sancho and continued the
journey to their village. They were not out of sight before Sancho broke loose with praise
for his master, who knew everything under the sun, it seemed. Blessed be God that he has let
me see such a thing with my own eyes!"

The conversation now turned to other things, and soon love became the topic. Sancho could not
understand why his master, as ugly as he was, should have turned the head of the fair Altisidora;
and why his master had not fallen head over heels in love with her was entirely beyond Sancho's
comprehension. Had he himself had the same opportunity he should not have foregone it, he could
have promised his master. Here Don Quixote tried to explain to Sancho that there were different
kinds of love: love of the mind, and of the body; but this explanation seemed to remain a puzzle
to the squire.

While they had been talking in this manner, they had come into a wood, and suddenly Don Quixote
rode into a green net which entangled him so completely that he began to shout that he had
been enchanted again. He made ready to cut and slash with his sword, when two beautiful girls
dressed as shepherdesses came from amidst the trees and began to plead with him not to tear
the nets, which they had spread in the woods that they might snare the little birds. There
was a holiday in the neighborhood, and they were to give a pageant and a play, they said, and
they wanted the birds to be actors in the play with them. Then they courteously begged Don
Quixote to be their guest and remain with them; but Don Quixote in return told them that the
urgency of his calling made it necessary for him to refuse, whereupon he made them aware of
who he was. As soon as the girls heard that they had Don Quixote of La Mancha in their midst,
they became still more eager that he should remain, for they had all read and heard of their
illustrious guest, they said, through the book that the whole of Spain and all the world was
devouring just then.

A gay youth, who was the brother of the young maidens, came up at this moment and joined his
sisters in their persuasions, and at last Don Quixote gave in and consented to stay. The youth,
who was attired as a shepherd, brought Don Quixote to their tents, and after a morning of gaiety
a repast was served, at which the knight was given the place of honor.

When the meal was over, Don Quixote rose and addressed the gathering in his usual dignified
manner. He chose for his topic gratitude, and said that there was but one way in which he could
show his full appreciation of the hospitality he had enjoyed that day at their hands: namely,
to maintain in the middle of the highway leading to Saragossa, for a period of two days, that
these two damsels were--with the exception of his lady Dulcinea--the most adorable and beautiful
maidens in the world.

Don Quixote had got so far in the course of his speech, when the faithful Sancho could restrain
his admiration for his master no longer. This outburst of his squire's infuriated Don Quixote.
He began to foam at the mouth, and after having scolded the meek and meddlesome Sancho, he
told him abruptly to go at once and saddle Rocinante. His hosts were astounded at his remarkable
behavior and proposal, and did all they could to stay him from carrying it out, but he was
not to be swayed. So they all followed at a distance to see what would happen to the knight,
who in his anger had not been slow to mount and disappear with Sancho trailing behind on Dapple
at his usual gait.

As soon as Don Quixote had posted himself in the middle of the road, he shouted out his challenge.
But no one who passed seemed to pay any attention to what he said, much less were they inclined
to take up the challenge, if they heard it. Suddenly, however, the knight sighted a troop of
men on horseback, all armed with lances. They were coming closer at a fast pace, and as soon
as the shepherds and shepherdesses saw them they withdrew in great haste. Sancho, overcome
with some innate foreboding of disaster, took refuge in the shade of Rocinante's hindquarters;
but Don Quixote stood resolute and held his ground.

Ahead of the oncoming troop rode a man, who, observing Don Quixote's position, began to make
violent signs to him to get away from the road; and when he saw that he was not being understood
or obeyed, he yelled out with fierceness: "Get out of the way, you son of the devil, or these
bulls will knock you to pieces!"

But all Don Quixote was concerned about was his challenge, and permitting no evasions, he retorted
heroically: "Rabble! I care nothing for bulls! Confess at once, scoundrels, that what I have
declared is true; else ye have to deal with me in combat."

Hardly had he spoken these words before the drove of bulls was on him and Sancho, trampling
them both to the ground as if they had been figures of pasteboard; for they were no common
bulls, they were fierce animals that were being taken to a nearby village for a bull-fight
on the following day. Yet when they had passed, and the valiant knight came to, he had lost
none of his intrepidity, for as soon as he could stand up he kept shouting at them to return
and he would fight them all alone.

The knight was so enraged and so humiliated to have been stepped on in such an unromantic fashion,
that he sat down and buried his head in his hands; and Sancho could not persuade him to return
to their hosts to bid them farewell. And so he decided instead to be on his way to Saragossa,
and master and squire mounted again and continued their journey dejectedly. When they had ridden
but a short way they came to a place where there was a spring, and they dismounted to refresh
their dusty throats and to wash themselves. The knight was wearied, and Sancho suggested that
he lie down and rest for a while. The suggestion pleased his master, who said he would do so
if his squire would give himself three or four hundred lashes with Rocinante's reins in the
meantime, as a help toward his Dulcinea's disenchantment. But after some arguing, Sancho wiggled
himself out of the business for the moment, having pleaded an ill-nourished body--in spite
of his constant eating. He said it was, besides, no easy matter to flog oneself in cold blood,
but promised to make good some time, unexpectedly. Then they both ate a little, and soon afterward
they fell asleep beside their faithful beasts. They awoke, refreshed, and made off to reach
an inn--and Sancho gave thanks to Heaven that Don Quixote took it for an inn--that they had
sighted in the distance before they went to sleep.

When they arrived at the inn Sancho at once took the beasts to the stable and fed them, while
Don Quixote retired to his room. When supper time came the landlord brought in a stewpan which
contained cow-heels that tasted, he swore, like calves' feet; and the knight and his squire
gathered gluttonously around the meal.

Like a flash the knight was on his feet, shouting to the adjoining room: "Whoever he may be
who says that Don Quixote of La Mancha has forgotten Dulcinea del Toboso, I will teach him
with equal arms that what he says is very far from true; for his motto is constancy, and his
profession is to maintain the same with his life and never wrong it."

Immediately voices from the other room wished to know who was speaking; and Sancho shouted
back that it was his master, and that his master was none other than Don Quixote of La Mancha
himself. In the next instant two gentlemen entered the room, and as soon as they perceived
Don Quixote, they fell on his neck and embraced him, saying that they were pleased and proud
beyond measure to meet so distinguished and illustrious a personage, their own morning star
of knight-errantry. One of the gentlemen, Don Jeronimo, assured him that there was no doubt
in his mind that he was the real Don Quixote of the First Part, and not the counterfeit one
of the Aragonese Second Part. With these words he put his copy of the Second Part, which he
had just been reading, into Don Quixote's hands and begged him to read it. Don Quixote took
it and glanced it through, and after having read a few pages, he returned it to the gentleman,
with the remark that he had already discovered three things in the book that ought to be censured;
and he said that when an author could make such a colossal mistake as to speak of Sancho's
wife as Mari Guiterrez, one would be likely to doubt the veracity of every other statement
of his in the book.

When Sancho heard of this audacious libel, he became red in the face with indignation. "A nice
sort of historian, indeed!" he burst out. "He must know a deal about our affairs when he calls
my wife, Teresa Panza, Mari Guiterrez! Take the book again, señor, and see whether I am in
it and whether he has changed my name!"

The gentleman looked at Sancho in an expectant manner, and said: "From your talk, friend, no
doubt you are Sancho Panza, Señor Don Quixote's squire."

When Sancho affirmed this, saying he was proud of it, it was Don Jeronimo's turn to become
indignant; for it seemed to him nothing short of blasphemy to take all the drollery out of
the Sancho, whom he saw before him here, he said, and who had furnished him with so many enjoyable
moments through his amusing talk, while he was reading the First Part. The Sancho of the Second
Part was a stupid character, a fool with no sense of humor whatever, he declared; and his declaration
promptly brought forth a proverb from Sancho's lips, which summed up his contempt for the new
author. "Let him who knows how ring the bells," he exclaimed.

The two gentlemen now invited the knight errant to join them at supper, as they knew, they
said, that the inn could afford nothing that was befitting a warrior as illustrious as he.
Always courteous, Don Quixote acquiesced, and they withdrew to the adjoining room, leaving
Sancho and the landlord to sup by themselves. At supper Don Quixote related to the two gentlemen
his many strange adventures, and they listened with the utmost interest; they could not help
admiring his elegant and finished speech, and at the same time were astounded at the strange
mixture of good sense and wit and absurd nonsense that flowed from his lips.

When Sancho had finished his cow-heels, he betook himself to the room where his master and
the gentleman were supping; and as he entered he asked Don Jeronimo: "If this author calls
me glutton, as your Worships say, I trust he does not call me drunkard too."

Don Jeronimo said that the author had been impertinent enough to do so, although he assured
Sancho that he could see by his face that the author had lied.

The other gentleman, Don Juan, was of Sancho's opinion, and he added that he thought no one
but Cid Hamet, the original author, should be permitted to write the history of Don Quixote's
achievements--just as Alexander issued an order that no one but Apelles should presume to paint
his portrait.

They carried on a conversation in this manner until quite late in the night. Don Juan offered
the Second Part to our hero to read, but Don Quixote declined it, saying that it would only
be flattering and encouraging to the author if he should, by chance, learn that he had read
his book. Then they asked him where he would be bound for when he left the inn; and when he
told them Saragossa, they mentioned that the author had given a description in the book of
a tilting at the ring in that city, in which he who was called Don Quixote had participated.

That made the knight change his intentions at once. Now he was determined not to set foot in
Saragossa: thus he would make the author commit perjury, trap him as a complete liar, and hold
him up to ridicule before the whole world. The gentlemen thought this a most ingenious way
to treat the blaspheming author, and made a suggestion that there were to be other jousts at
Barcelona, to which he would be welcomed; and Don Quixote announced that he would go there
instead. Then he begged leave in his usual courteous manner to retire, and withdrew to his room.

Early on the following morning the knight rose, and bade good-by to his two new friends by
knocking at the partition that separated their rooms, while Sancho paid the landlord for the
lodging and the cow-heels.

CHAPTER LX

OF WHAT HAPPENED TO DON QUIXOTE ON HIS WAY TO BARCELONA

For six days Don Quixote and Sancho traveled without anything happening to them worth recording.
At the end of the sixth day they came to a grove of oak and cork trees, where they dismounted
and settled themselves for the night. Sancho, who had been nourished plentifully that day,
at once fell asleep, but Don Quixote's mind wandered hither and thither into strange regions
and imaginary places; and he thought of the sad plight of his beloved one. The more he considered
the cruelty of his squire, the more enraged he became; and at last he decided that the only
thing for him to do was to strip Sancho and administer the beating himself. With this intention
he began to undo the squire's garments.

Sancho, being awakened and realizing his master's foul play, now had lost all desire for sleep.
He reminded his master that the whipping would have no effect toward Dulcinea's disenchantment,
unless it was applied voluntarily and by his own hand. But Don Quixote insisted that there
must be an end to this nonsense, for he had no desire to let his peerless Dulcinea suffer because
of his squire's uncharitable disposition. And then he proceeded, with Rocinante's reins in
his hand, to give his squire, as he said, two thousand lashes on account of the three thousand
three hundred. But Sancho was on his feet in an instant, and began to grapple with his master,
and he crushed his emaciated body almost to flatness in his firm grip. Then he suddenly let
him loose and despatched him with a kick to no mean distance, and, still pursuing his victim,
he there sat upon him. Don Quixote managed at last to gather all the breath that had not been
squeezed out of him by the combat, and supported by that he ejaculated in a hoarse whisper:

"How now, traitor! And then he proceeded to dictate the peace terms, and he extracted a promise
from his natural lord never to try to whip him again, neither awake nor asleep.

Then the victor disappeared in the grove and went to lie down against a tree: but just as he
had placed himself comfortably, he was frightened almost to death by seeing two feet, with
shoes and stockings, dangling in the air above his head. He ran to another tree, thinking he
had been dreaming, and there he found a like apparition haunting him. He began to scream aloud,
calling upon his master for help, and ran to search for him. Don Quixote asked him what had
frightened him, and the squire replied that all the trees were full of feet and legs. Don Quixote
calmly looked at the dead bodies in the trees and told his squire that no doubt they were outlaws
that had been hanged by the authorities; and he took them to be a sign that they were now close
to Barcelona. They then lay down to rest for the night.

When they awoke at dawn, they found themselves surrounded by a band of men who turned out to
be highwaymen. The band stripped them of all they possessed, and were just about to search
Sancho further for money, when a swarthy-looking man in his thirties appeared, mounted on a
splendid horse and armed with many pistols. It was their captain, and none other than the notorious
Roque Guinart, a man who had taken to the life of banditry and hold-ups because of having been
wronged by the authorities.

When the bandit captain observed what his men were about to do to Sancho, he commanded them
to stop, and to return everything they had taken away from the knight and his squire. He asked
Don Quixote why he looked so dejected, and the knight responded that he was grieved that he
had been taken unaware, saying that had he been armed with his lance and shield and mounted
on his Rocinante when he found himself surrounded by these men, he would have defended himself
to the last drop of his blood, in accordance with all the rules of knight-errantry. And then
he told Roque that he was the Don Quixote of La Mancha who had filled the whole world with
the wonder of his achievements; and he thanked him for his great courtesy and mercifulness.

Just then they heard the violent sound of hoofs clattering against the hard road, and as they
turned they beheld a youth, extremely pleasing in appearance, who was coming their way in a
wild gallop. As he reached them, he flung himself from his horse and addressed Roque, who then
perceived that it was not a lad but a maiden. She said she was the daughter of his friend Simon
Forte, and named Claudia Jeronima, and that she, unbeknown to her father, had fallen in love
with and become engaged to the son of her father's arch enemy, Clauquel Torrellas, whose son
was named Vicente. Yesterday, she went on, she had learned that he had promised to marry another
one, and full of jealousy she had stolen upon him this morning in the guise that he now saw
her in and shot him in the presence of his servants near his house. She had left him at once,
and she now wanted Roque to procure for her a safe-conduct that she might take refuge in France
where she had relatives. She also wanted to extract a promise from him to protect her father
from the wrath and revenge of the Torrellas.

Roque was evidently much taken with the girl, for he gave her a glance full of admiration;
nor had she failed to make an impression on Don Quixote and Sancho. Don Quixote wanted at once
to go in quest of the knight and make him keep his troth, and Sancho added that his master
was an admirable match-maker. But Roque hastily took leave of them, and accompanied only by
the fair Claudia, he had soon come to the spot where she had left Don Vicente. This young gentleman
was surrounded by some servants who had been attempting to carry him to his home, but he had
begged them to take him no further, for the pain was too great, he said and he felt that he
was dying. All were astounded at the sight of the feared Roque, who dismounted with Claudia.

The fair maiden approached her lover, and clasping his hand, she said: "Hadst thou given me
this according to our compact thou hadst never come to this pass." And then the young lady
told Don Vicente what she had heard; but he disavowed to her any intention to marry any one
else but herself. Hearing this she broke down completely, flung herself upon his breast, and
sobbed convulsively; and then she fainted.

When she came to, she found that her beloved one had passed away, and her grief then knew no
bounds. Again and again she would be overcome by her feelings, and swoon so that they had to
sprinkle water on her face. Roque was moved to tears, and so were the servants, and Claudia
said that she would go into cloister for the rest of her life to atone for her sin. Roque approved
of her decision, and offered to conduct her wherever she wished to go, but she declined his
company, with many thanks, and bade him farewell in tears. Roque then directed the servants
to take the body of Don Vicente to the dead man's father, and returned to his band.

He found Don Quixote addressing his men on lawlessness, but they seemed to be little impressed
with his sermon. Soon afterward a sentinel came up to his captain, and reported that people
were coming along on the road to Barcelona, and Roque, having made certain that they were not
armed troops out to enforce the law and in search of bandits, gave order to capture the travelers
and have them brought before him.

Here the outlaw revealed himself again to Don Quixote as a naturally kindly and tender-hearted
man, for though the travelers possessed a good deal of money, he assessed them but one hundred
and forty crowns. Of this money he gave the men of his band two crowns each; that left twenty
crowns over, and this he divided between some pilgrims who were on their way to Rome and our
worthy Sancho. The travelers were two captains of Spanish infantry, and some titled ladies;
and the women felt so grateful to Roque for his generosity, and his unusual behavior and courtesy
touched them so, that they wanted to kiss his hand, considering him in the light of a hero
rather than a robber. Roque did not forget to give them a safe-conduct to the leaders of his
bands, for there were many of them, operating all through that region.

One of Roque's men seemed dissatisfied with such leniency as he had seen displayed, and voiced
his opinion rather too loudly, for the leader of the band heard it, and the offender's head
was nearly cleft open in the next second. The captain turned to Don Quixote and remarked that
that was the way he punished impudence; then he calmly sat down and wrote a letter to a friend
of his in Barcelona, telling him of the early arrival there of the famous Don Quixote of La
Mancha, of whose exploits in knight-errantry the whole world knew; and, to be exact, he fixed
Saint John the Baptist's day as the very day on which our knight would make his first appearance
in the very midst of the city of Barcelona under the auspices of him to whom he addressed this
letter, and who would be grateful for the infinite joy Don Quixote and his droll squire Sancho
Panza would afford him and the city. He sent the letter by one of his trusted followers, who,
disguised as a peasant, made his way into Barcelona and delivered the letter to the right person.
Roque always slept apart from his men, for the viceroy of Barcelona had placed a great price
on his head, and Roque was in constant fear that some one in his band would be tempted to deliver
him up. On the fourth day he and Don Quixote, accompanied by Sancho and six of the band, made
their way toward Barcelona; and on the night of St. John's Eve they reached the city. There
Roque took farewell of the knight and his squire, and returned to his haunts in the woods.

Throughout the night Don Quixote-kept guard over the city; and there he was still sitting on
Rocinante when dawn appeared on the horizon, and Don Quixote and Sancho Panza for the first
time in their lives beheld the sea. It seemed to them it was ever so much greater than any
of the lakes they had seen in La Mancha. As the sun rose it was suddenly greeted with the ringing
of bells, the din of drums, the sound of clarions, and the trampling and clatter of feet on
the streets; and from the galleys along the beach a mass of streamers in varied colors waved
its welcome, to the music and the noise of bugles, clarions and trumpets from shipboard. Then
cannons on ship and shore began to thunder, and a constant fire was kept up from the walls
and fortress of the city. It was a noise and a spectacle that might have over-awed any one,
even a less simple-minded person than Sancho, who stared open-mouthed at the wonders he beheld.
He gasped when he saw the galleys rowed about by their oarsmen on the water, and he told his
master he had never seen so many feet in his life. A troop of horsemen in extravagant liveries
rode past them, where they were standing, and suddenly Don Quixote was startled by hearing
some one call out in a loud voice: "Welcome to our city, mirror, beacon, star and cynosure
of all knight-errantry in its widest extent! Welcome, I say, valiant Don Quixote of La Mancha!
Not the false, the fictitious, the apocryphal one, but the true, the legitimate, the real one
that Cid Hamet Benengeli, flower of historians, has described to us!"

Don Quixote felt flattered by the attention he suddenly attracted, for all eyes had turned
to gaze upon his lean and queer person; although it may be said here, in confidence, that the
man who had recognized the hero was no other than the one to whom the rogue Roque had written.
The cavalier divulged his identity to Don Quixote, and begged him politely to accept his services
while in Barcelona; and Don Quixote replied with as much courtesy that he would follow him
wherever he pleased and be entirely at his disposal. Then the horsemen closed in around him
and they set out for the center of the city, to the music of a gay tune played by the clarions
and drums.

The Devil, however, was not asleep. He put temptation into the hearts of some street urchins,
who stole their way into the close proximity of Rocinante's and Dapple's hindquarters, and
there deposited a bunch of furze under their tails, with the fatal result that their riders
were flung headlong into the crowd. Our proud hero, covered with dust and shame, pulled himself
together and went to pick the flowers from the tail of his hack, while Sancho extracted the
cause of Dapple's capers from his own mount. As soon as Don Quixote had entered the house,
Don Antonio persuaded him to discard the suit of armor; then he took him out on the balcony,
where he at once attracted all the boys in the street and crowds of people, who gazed at him
as if he had been a monkey. The cavaliers passed in review before the balcony, and the knight
was given the impression that it was in his special honor they were bedecked as they were,
for he did not realize that it was a holiday. Sancho was delighted beyond description. He was
treated royally by the servants, who thought that they had never met any one quite as amusing
as he. Don Antonio's friends were all instructed to pay homage to Don Quixote and at all times
to address him as if he were a knight errant.

The flattery and honors were too much for the poor knight: they turned his head completely,
and he became puffed up with his own importance. Sancho, too, amused Don Antonio and his guests
exceedingly, and they enjoyed particularly hearing about his escapades as governor.

After dinner that day, the host took Don Quixote into a distant room, which contained no furniture
except a table, on which was a pedestal supporting a head made of what seemed to be bronze.
After having acted in the most mysterious manner, and having carefully ascertained that all
the doors to the room were shut and no one listening, Antonio swore the knight to secrecy.
Then he proceeded to tell Don Quixote that the head he saw there before him had been made by
a Polish magician, and possessed the magic faculty of being able to answer any question whispered
into its ear. Only on certain days, however, did its magic assert itself, and the following
day, which was the day after Friday--it had been astrologically worked out--would again witness
the miracle. Don Antonio asked the knight whether there was anything he should especially like
to ask the head; if so, he could put the question to it on the morrow. Don Quixote seemed sceptical,
but made no comment, and they returned to the other guests.

In the afternoon the knight errant was placed on a tall mule, bedecked with beautiful trimmings,
and himself encased in a heavy and uncomfortably warm garb of yellow cloth; then, unbeknown
to him, they pinned on his back a parchment with this inscription in large letters: THIS IS
DON QUIXOTE OF LA MANCHA.

As they were parading through the streets the knight's vanity swelled more and more, for from
every nook and corner there came great shouts of recognition. Finally the crowds increased
so that Don Antonio was obliged to remove the parchment, and soon they had to take refuge in
his house.

In the evening Don Antonio's wife gave a dance, and it was amusing to see the tall and lank
hero move about on the ballroom floor; the men gave him the opportunity to dance every dance,
for they themselves enjoyed watching him better than dancing. At last Don Quixote was so exhausted
both by the dancing and by the lovemaking that the ladies had imposed on him--and how they
delighted in hearing him avow his great love for Dulcinea--that Sancho had to take him to his
room and put him to bed.

The next day Don Antonio took his wife, Don Quixote, and a few intimate friends into the secret
chamber, and after many mysterious preliminaries, the questioning of the head began. All seemed
particularly interested in what Don Quixote would have to ask, and felt rewarded when his turn
came, for this is what he demanded: "Tell me, thou that answerest, was that which happened
to me in the cave of Montesinos the truth or a dream? Will my squire Sancho's whipping be accomplished
without fail? Will the disenchantment of Dulcinea be brought about?"

In a mysterious voice that seemed to come from a great distance, the head returned these answers:
"As to the question of the cave, there is much to be said; there is something of both in it.

Don Quixote heaved a sigh and declared that if only his peerless one were disenchanted, it
would be all the good fortune he could wish for. Then Sancho tried his luck; but at the conclusion
of Sancho's audience with the head, he did not seem properly awed, and his master became displeased
with his pretentious expectations and reprimanded him severely in the presence of the whole
company.

All the while Sancho's incessant talking and his master's exalted behavior kept every one in
an uproarious humor. The joke that Don Antonio had arranged consisted in having a student,
a young nephew of Don Antonio's, placed in a chamber underneath the one in which the head was,
to receive the questions and speak the replies through a tube that led from the inside of the
head to the room below. Soon after this form of amusement had taken place, it was agreed upon
by the gentlemen of the city to arrange for a tilting at the ring, for they were convinced
that such an exhibition would afford greater opportunities for mirth and laughter than anything
else they might think of.

One day Don Quixote and Sancho, accompanied by two of Don Antonio's servants, were walking
on foot through the city, when they suddenly passed a printing shop; and, never having seen
one, the knight entered with Sancho and the servants. He was as curious as usual, and asked
the printer innumerable questions about the books that he was printing. He saw some of the
printers reading the proofs of a book, and he turned to them and inquired what the title of
the book was. They told him it was the Second Part of "The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote
of La Mancha," adding that is was written by a certain person of Tordesillas. Upon hearing
this, Don Quixote grew quite cold in his demeanor, and having moralized that fiction resembling
truth is always greater than absurdly untruthful stories, he uttered a hope that the book would
be burned to ashes. And then he turned his back on the astonished men and left the shop in
great haste. There were fanfares, and cheers, and the firing of guns, and all the high-ranking
officers of the army and navy who were in the city had been appealed to by Don Antonio Moreno
and turned out to pay him their respects.

Don Quixote was delighted. He could scarcely find words to express his appreciation of such
a magnificent and royal reception; and Sancho was almost carried away by the honors that were
being paid his master. But when he saw all the men at the oars--stripped to the skin by the
captain's command--he became afraid, for they seemed to him like so many devils.

When Don Quixote and Sancho Panza had been presented to all the dignitaries, the captain escorted
them to a platform on which he begged them to take their seats beside him. Sancho sat at the
edge of the platform, next to one of the rowing devils (who had been instructed in advance
by the captain what to do) and suddenly he felt himself lifted in the air by a pair of strong,
muscular arms. The next instant he was in the clutches of another devil; and passing from hand
to hand, he went the rounds of the crew with such swiftness that the poor superstitious Sancho
did not know whether he was dead, dreaming, or alive. Sancho's aërial expedition did not come
to an end until he had been most unceremoniously deposited on the poop, where he landed in
a strangely unbalanced condition--to the tremendous amusement of the crew and the onlookers.
He was so dazed that it is doubtful whether he would have known his name, if he had been asked.

Seeing what had happened to his squire, Don Quixote thought it best to forestall himself from
being put through any such ceremony; so he stood up, his hand on the hilt of his sword, and
announced with fire in his eyes that any one who dared to attempt such a thing to him would
suffer by having his head cut off. He had hardly finished his sentence before a noise was heard
that frightened Sancho almost into insensibility. He thought that Heaven was coming off its
hinges and about to fall on his sinful head. And even Don Quixote trembled with something closely
akin to fear, and grew (if that were possible) pale under his yellow hue.

What the crew had done was to strike the awning and lower the yard and then hoist it up again
with as much clatter and speed as they could produce, yet without uttering any human sound.
This being done, the boatswain gave orders to weigh anchor, and as he went about on deck signaling
with a whistle, he continually lashed and beat the backs of the naked oarsmen with a whip he
had in his hand.

But Sancho was not to be persuaded, and the general of the fortress, who was eager to know
why Sancho was urged to lash himself, could not wait for a reply to his question, for there
loomed up on the horizon a ship which attracted his attention, and he immediately gave orders
to the captain to steer down upon it.

After an adventure on the seas, the first they had ever experienced, Don Quixote and Sancho
came back to Barcelona that afternoon, and returned to the house of their host, escorted by
the Viceroy, the General and the other high dignitaries.

And then the Knight of the White Moon went on to say that should he conquer Don Quixote, the
Knight of the Lions must retire to his native village for a period of one year, and live there
in peace and quiet, away from all knightly endeavors and deeds. Should, however, Don Quixote
turn out to be the victor, he, the challenger, would gladly forfeit his head, as well as the
renown of his many deeds and conquests, his arms and horse to him. He bade Don Quixote consider
the challenge and give a speedy answer, for he had but that day at his disposal for the combat.

Don Quixote was taken aback at the audacity and arrogance with which the knight had stated
his demands, particularly when he took into consideration that he had never in his whole life
heard him even spoken of, much less had he heard of the deeds and victorious combats he had
named. But he accepted the challenge with calm pride on the conditions the Knight of the White
Moon had given, barring the one which involved transferring his renown to Don Quixote's shoulders
in case of his being vanquished. To our knight that seemed like taking too great chances, since
he had no idea what the nature of the challenger's deeds might be, and since he was thoroughly
satisfied with his own achievements.

It so happened that the Viceroy had observed the Knight of the White Moon in conversation with
Don Quixote, and thinking that some one had planned another joke on him, he hastened to Don
Antonio's house, and got him to accompany him to the beach, where they found the two knights
just taking their distance, and about to commence the combat. Don Antonio was as startled when
he saw the other knight as the Viceroy had been, and neither one could make up his mind whether
the whole thing was a joke, or not, for no one there seemed to know who the Knight of the White
Moon was. However, the two gentlemen at last decided it could be nothing but a prank, planned
by some gentleman for his own amusement. The Viceroy then turned to the knight and, learning
that the combat was being fought to decide a question of precedence of beauty, bade them set
to if both of them still remained unshaken and inflexible in their convictions. The two combatants,
having thanked the Viceroy for his permission, separated and again took up the necessary distance.
Their horses wheeled around and the knights came against each other with all the speed their
mounts were capable of. But the Knight of the White Moon was mounted on a steed that completely
outshone the poor Rocinante, for when they clashed, the poor hack fell from the mere force
of the contact, and Don Quixote leaped over his head onto earth. At once the unknown knight
held his lance over his visor and threatened him with death unless he confessed to being vanquished
and acknowledged that he would abide by the conditions of the combat.

In a feeble voice Don Quixote answered him that in spite of his defeat Dulcinea still was the
most beautiful woman in the world, but that now that his honor had been taken away from him,
he might as well die; and he begged the knight to drive home the blow of his lance. But the
Knight of the White Moon was a generous gentleman. He said he would not have our hero deny
the beauty of his Dulcinea in deference to his own lady; all that he asked was that Don Quixote
return to his village of La Mancha and give up knight-errantry as he had promised. Don Quixote
rose in a sorry and battered condition and swore that he would keep his word like a true knight
errant; and in the next instant the mysterious Knight of the White Moon set off toward the
city at a quick canter.

As soon as the unknown knight had left, the Viceroy, Don Antonio and Sancho hastened to Don
Quixote's side. They found him covered with perspiration and stiff in all his limbs. Rocinante
had not yet stirred, for he, too, was in a deplorable condition. Sancho for once had lost his
speech, and all that had happened to his master in so short a time seemed to him proof that
the enchanters were still pursuing him. Now that his master for some time to come was to be
confined to their own village, there would be no chance for him to redeem the promise he had
made to his squire. Altogether it seemed to Sancho a sad state of affairs.

Don Quixote was in such a dilapidated condition that he had to be carried into the city in
a hand-chair which the Viceroy had sent for, and they all escorted him to the house of Don Antonio.

CHAPTER LXV

WHEREIN IS MADE KNOWN WHO THE KNIGHT OF THE WHITE MOON WAS; LIKEWISE OTHER EVENTS

In the city the Viceroy and Don Antonio tried to locate the Knight of the White Moon, and when
they had found the hostel at which he was staying Don Antonio went to call on him and learned
that he was the bachelor Samson Carrasco, from the very same village as Don Quixote. The bachelor,
having explained his aims regarding the knight, packed his arms in a knapsack, took leave as
soon as he had told his story, and set off at once for La Mancha, mounted on a mule.

A few days later, much to the sorrow of Sancho--who had never been so well fed in his life--Don
Quixote and he took a fond farewell of their estimable and generous host who had heaped so
many honors on them and who had enjoyed himself so tremendously at their expense. This time
it was a sad and lonely journey on which they started. Don Quixote was mounted on Rocinante,
who had somewhat recovered from his shock, but Sancho had to tread the trail on foot, for his
Dapple had to serve as a carrier for the discarded armor of our late and lamented valiant Knight
of the Lions. He pleaded with Sancho and implored him to go through with the ordeal bravely;
but Sancho was unflinching in his stubbornness and insisted he could see no reason why he should
be coupled with the disenchantment of the peerless fair one. Thus Don Quixote could only pray
that his squire might be moved by compassion to perform some day the deed that would liberate
his lady.

While discussing this subject so close to his heart Don Quixote had decided to pursue his journey,
and while they were traveling along on the road to their village they again engaged in conversation.
Suddenly they found themselves passing the spot where they had been trampled on by the bulls,
but Don Quixote, not wishing to have his thoughts return to anything so bitter, turned to Sancho
and remarked that this was where they had encountered the gay shepherds and shepherdesses.
And the next instant he had decided to emulate their example and turn shepherd himself, now
that his calling of knight errant had come to an end; he would buy some ewes, he said, and
together they would retire to some quiet pastoral nook where the woods and the fields met,
and where pure crystal water sprang from the ledge of a rock and the fragrance of flowers was
in the air. And there he would sing to Dulcinea, his platonic and only love. The thought of
a life so calm and so far away from danger and knightly adventures pleased Sancho so greatly
and made his enthusiasm run so high that he could not restrain a row of proverbs from falling
from his lips. It was a flow so incessant that Don Quixote at last felt obliged to ask for a truce.

Night had now fallen, and Don Quixote thought it best to withdraw from the roadway and take
refuge for the night some distance away from it. Having supped, Sancho at once fell asleep,
but his master sat up all that night, thinking of Dulcinea and making up rhymes to the sweetness
of her memory.

CHAPTER LXVIII

OF THE BRISTLY ADVENTURE THAT BEFELL DON QUIXOTE

Don Quixote could not bear to see his squire sleep so restfully while he was being weighted
down by all the cares of the world. So he woke Sancho, whose stolid unconcern about Dulcinea
again was brought home to him, and almost went on his knees in order to induce him to scourge
himself. He nearly wept in his efforts to have Sancho inflict the meager amount of three or
four hundred lashes upon himself; but as ever the cruel squire remained unmoved. Don Quixote
did everything in his power to entice him to do this beautiful deed of sacrifice. He held forth
to him what a blessed night it would be for them, if he would only comply with his master's
request, for then, Don Quixote suggested, they could spend the remainder of it singing, thus
making this the beginning of the pastoral life to which they were about to devote themselves.
But Sancho said he was no monk; and the idea of getting up in the middle of the night to perform
such rituals did not appeal to him, he frankly avowed. The bewailings of his master, both in
Castilian and in Latin, made no impression upon the hard-hearted Sancho, who remained as firm
as the rock of Gibraltar, as far as the disenchantment was concerned.

Don Quixote had just made up his mind that it was a useless task to try to prevail upon Sancho
at that hour to do his duty, when suddenly there was heard a tremendous and terrifying noise,
which increased as it seemed to come closer. Sancho was so frightened that he at once took
refuge behind Dapple, entrenching himself between the pack-saddle and his master's discarded
armor; and Don Quixote got palpitation of the heart, and began to shiver. As Sancho peeped
from behind his entrenchments and Don Quixote took courage to look, the grunting drove of six
hundred pigs--for that is what it was--was so close upon them that in the next moment they
found themselves knocked to the ground; but it was some time before all of the snorting, disrespectful
animals had passed their dirty feet over the prostrate bodies of the knight, his squire and
their beasts and provisions.

Sancho rose first, smeared with dirt, and having been stirred to unusual depths by the condition
in which he found himself, he begged his master to let him take his sword, saying he felt he
had to kill some of the pigs in order to be soothed. The exceedingly bad manners they had displayed
and especially the fact that they had crushed all the provisions into nothingness, had produced
an ire in Sancho that seemed wellnigh irrepressible.

But Don Quixote calmed his squire with these words, spoken with a melancholy air: "Let them
be, my friend.

Sancho lay down and slept, but his master sat up and commenced his emulation of the life of
a shepherd by singing the song he had composed to his great love, accompanying it with his
own sighs, and many wet tears. At last daylight came, and the sun awakened them both. Sancho
began to rub his eyes, and they both got up and made ready to journey further. But before leaving
Sancho again cursed the pigs for having ruined his stores.

He and his master had traveled the whole day, when they encountered a number of men on horseback,
and four or five men on foot, all heavily armed. Don Quixote's heart ached, for he could not
forget his promise to the Knight of the White Moon. The men who were mounted approached our
hero and Sancho, and surrounded them without speaking a word. Don Quixote attempted to ask
a question, but one of them warned him to be silent by putting a finger to his lips, while
another one pointed his lance against the knight's breast. Still another one took Rocinante
by the bridle; while Sancho was being treated in the same manner by some of the others. Both
Don Quixote and Sancho began to be worried as to the outcome of this adventure, for the whole
proceeding seemed to them utterly mysterious.

They rode all that day, unable to make out where they were being taken, or who their mysterious
captors were, and at last night came. All the while the men were calling them all kinds of
names, such as "bloodthirsty lions," "cannibals," "murderous Polyphemes" etc.; and Sancho was
scared out of his wits, while Don Quixote was at his wits ends. Both were convinced that some
terrible misfortune was in store for them, and they could only pray that they would get out
of it as easily as possible.

Before they knew it, it was midnight, and soon after that Don Quixote recognized a castle,
which he saw in the distance, as that of the Duke. He was amazed when he found that the men
were taking him there, and he said to himself: "God bless me! What does this mean? In the very
center there was a catafalque, elevated to a height of several yards above the ground and covered
by a huge canopy of black velvet. To the catafalque steps led from all around, and on the steps
were hundreds of wax tapers burning in silver candlesticks. On the catafalque lay the dead
body of a beautiful maiden. On one side of the stage there was a large platform on which sat
two figures, with scepters in their hands and crowns on their heads: judging by this, Don Quixote
thought they must be royal personages. On the side of this platform were two empty chairs,
to which Don Quixote and Sancho were led. And when they had seated themselves and turned around
to observe what was going to happen, they were suddenly startled by seeing their friends, the
Duke and the Duchess, mount the platform and seat themselves next to the royalty.

Don Quixote and Sancho both paid them homage by rising and bowing profoundly, and the ducal
pair returned their compliment with a slight bow of the head. Following them came a long row
of attendants. Then suddenly Don Quixote came to realize that the corpse was none other than
that of the fair Altisidora, whose love he had scorned, and that shocked him greatly.

Some one connected with the ceremonies passed at that moment and threw a robe of black buckram
covered with painted red flames of fire over Sancho and, removing his cap, put on his head
a miter of the kind that those who were undergoing the sentence of the Holy Office wore. At
the same time he whispered in Sancho's ear that if he opened his lips, his life would not be safe.

At first Sancho, seeing all the flames that seemed to be licking his body, got frightened,
but when he found that no heat ensued and nothing else happened, his worries ceased. In the
next moment his and his master's attention was attracted by low, sweet sounds of music and
singing that seemed to vibrate from underneath the catafalque; and then there appeared a youth
with a harp, and he sang a song that dealt with the cruelty of Don Quixote toward the fair
Altisidora, who now was dead from a broken heart.

When he had sung of her charms, one of the two who seemed like kings rose from his seat and
spoke. He, Minos, who sat in judgment with Rhadamanthus, now begged the latter to stand up
and announce what must be done in order to affect the resuscitation and restoration of the
damsel Altisidora. As soon as he had declaimed all he had to say, he sat down, and in the next
moment Rhadamanthus rose and decreed that all the officials gather quickly and attach the person
of Sancho Panza, as through him alone Altisidora's restoration could be effected, he said,
by his receiving twenty-four smacks in the face, twelve pinches and six pin-thrusts in the
back and arms.

Nobody but Sancho objected to the King's proclamation; but Sancho was emphatic enough for a
multitude. "Body of me!" he replied unhesitatingly. "What has mauling my face got to with the
resurrection of this damsel?

But Rhadamanthus was bent in carrying out his threat. He gave a sign to one of the attendants,
and in the next moment a procession of duennas started toward Sancho with raised hands.

Here Don Quixote thought it was time for him to add his plea to that of the King, and he began
to reason with Sancho. At last he subdued him somewhat, and by that time the duennas had reached
the spot where Don Quixote and Sancho were seated, and one of them came up, curtsied, and gave
the poor squire a smack on the face that nearly unseated him, and that made him exclaim: "Less
politeness and less paint, Señora Duenna. By God, your hands smell of vinegar-wash!"

But just then Altisidora--who probably was tired of lying on her back such a long time--moved,
and in the next moment exclamations were heard from all in the court: "Altisidora is alive!
Altisidora lives!"

Now that the great miracle had been attained, Rhadamanthus turned to Sancho and bade him still
his anger; and Don Quixote again entreated Sancho, since he so nobly had proven that virtue
now was ripe in him, to go to work and disenchant his Dulcinea in the same breath.

By this time Altisidora had entirely recovered from her death and was now sitting up on the
catafalque. The music was again heard, the voices sang, and all came forward to help the young
maiden down from her elevated position.

Altisidora acted as if she were just coming out of a long, long sleep; and when she saw the
Kings and the Duke and the Duchess she bowed her head to them in respect. Then she asked the
Lord to forgive Don Quixote for his cruelty, while she praised and thanked Sancho Panza for
his sacrifice, and offered to give him six smocks of hers to make into shirts for himself,
adding that if they were not quite whole, they were at least all clean. On hearing this, Sancho
fell on his knees and kissed her hands; and then one of the attendants approached him, at the
order of the Duke, and asked him to return the red robe and the miter. Sancho, however, wanted
to keep them to show to his villagers as a remembrance of his marvelous experience; and when
the Duchess heard of his desire she commanded that they be given to her friend as a token of
her everlasting esteem.

Soon everybody had left the court and retired to their quarters, and the Duke had Don Quixote
and Sancho shown to their old chambers. It was some time before he went asleep, however, for
the pain of the pinching and smacking was quite evident. Don Quixote was inclined to talk,
but Sancho begged him to let him sleep in peace for the remainder of the night, and at last
both master and servant fell into slumber.

In the meantime it might be told how it came about that Don Quixote came to visit the ducal
castle again. The bachelor Samson Carrasco, having learned as much as he could from the page
that carried the letter to Teresa Panza of the whereabouts of the hero, decided that the time
had come for another combat with him. Thus he procured a new suit of armor and a fresh horse
and set out to find the Duke's castle. Having reached it, he had a long conversation with the
Duke, wherein he told him it was his great desire to bring Don Quixote back to his village
and his friends, hoping that if he could defeat him in battle Don Quixote could be made to
return of his own free will and in time be cured of his strange affliction. He then followed
him to Saragossa, for which city he had set out when he left the Duke's castle, but finally
traced him to Barcelona, where the bachelor encountered him with the result that he promised
to return to his village and give up knight-errantry for a year.

On his way home, the bachelor, at the Duke's request, had stopped at the castle to inform him
of the outcome of the combat, and it was then that the Duke decided to play the knight and
his squire another joke. The Duke had his men stationed everywhere on the road that led from
Barcelona, and it was thus that they were able to bring in Don Quixote in the manner and at
the hour that they did.

When daylight arrived the morning after Altisidora's coming to life, Don Quixote awoke and
found her in his presence; and the instant he saw her he showed his modesty and his confusion
by pulling the sheet over his head. But while Don Quixote was not inclined to converse with
a maiden so early in the morning, Sancho showed no aversion to it whatever, for he bombarded
Altisidora with all kinds of impertinent questions as to what was going on in Hell when she
was there. Of course Altisidora denied having any intimate knowledge of this place, for in
spite of her immodesty she had only got as far as the gates, she said.

Don Quixote now entered into the conversation and asked why the fair Altisidora had been so
persistent in her love, when she knew that he would never change or give up his beloved Dulcinea,
to whom he maintained he was born to belong. If I fall upon you I shall tear your eyes out!
They may talk of it, but as far as doing it--Judas may believe that!"

Now the Duke and the Duchess entered, and after an animated conversation during which Sancho's
amusing sayings as usual captivated his distinguished friends, Don Quixote begged leave to
be on his way to his village. They granted him his request, and then they asked him whether
he had forgiven Altisidora for having tried to capture his love. He replied saying that this
lady's lack of virtue had its root in her idleness, and he recommended that the Duchess see
to it that Altisidora was put to making lace or given some other employment. Sancho approved
of his master's advice, and remarked sagely that he never had seen any lacemaker die for love;
and he further illustrated the truth of Don Quixote's remark by his own experience on that
score: when he was digging, he vowed, he never bothered with the thought of his old woman.
The testimony of two such staunch friends of hers as Don Quixote and Sancho made the Duchess
promise that hereafter she would keep the fair Altisidora employed so that no foolish thoughts
might take her away from the path of virtue. As soon as the fair maiden heard her mistress
speak thus, however, she assured her that there was no longer any need of her being worked
to death in order to divert her thought from the person of our knight errant, for his cruelty
to her had been such that the very thought of that had now blotted him out of her memory forever.
And, pretending to wipe a tear from her eye, she made a curtsy to the Duchess and left the chamber.

It was now time for dinner, and soon afterward Don Quixote, having dined with the Duke and
the Duchess, made his departure from the castle with Sancho, and started again for his home.
Don Quixote was sad because he had been forced to give up the glories of knight-errantry and
chivalry; Sancho because Altisidora had not kept her word when she promised to give him the
smocks. To Sancho it seemed a terrible injustice that physicians should be paid even if their
patients died, and here he had brought back a human being from the dead, and was being rewarded
in this ungrateful manner!

But Don Quixote's sadness was suddenly brightened by a hope that he might at last be able to
prevail upon Sancho to bring about the disenchantment of Dulcinea. Knowing Sancho's covetousness,
he offered him money as a bribe. Now Sancho became interested, and consented, for the love
of his wife and children, to whip himself at a price of a quarter-real a lash, generously throwing
the five lashes he had already given himself into the bargain.

"O blessed Sancho!

Night came at last, and when they had supped, Sancho proceeded to make a sturdy whip out of
Dapple's halter. When he had finished this task he made off for a distant part of the woods.
He left his master with such a determined look in his eyes that Don Quixote thought it best
to warn him not to go too fast but to take a breathing-space between lashes so that he would
not cut his body to pieces. He was afraid also, he said, that Sancho might become so enthusiastic
over what he was doing, or so anxious to come to the end of the lashes that he might overtax
his strength, collapse and die; and he begged Sancho particularly not to do that, for then
he would have gone through all his suffering in vain. When Sancho had stripped himself to the
waist, Don Quixote placed himself where he could hear the sound of the lashes, and counted
them on his rosary that Sancho would make neither too much nor too little effort to disenchant
Dulcinea.

After half a dozen lashes, Sancho felt that he had inflicted a sufficient measure of pain upon
himself already, and demanded a higher price for his service. Don Quixote told Sancho that
he would pay him twice the amount promised; and the squire began again. But this time he did
not whip himself but let the lashes fall on a tree; and with each lash he gave out the most
heartrending cries, and uttered such groans that his master began to feel the pain of his squire's
torture in his own heart. When he had counted a thousand lashes or thereabout, he was quite
worried about Sancho and begged him to stop for the present, but Sancho told his master he
might as well brave the remainder of the ordeal now.

Seeing his squire in such a sacrificing mood, Don Quixote retired at his request, and Sancho
continued with the lashing, which he administered to a perfectly innocent tree with such brutality
and ferocity that the bark flew in all directions. All the while he gave vent to his pain by
fierce shrieks, and then there came one long agonizing cry, which nearly rent Don Quixote's
heart, and Sancho exclaimed piteously: "Here dies Sancho, and all with him!" Don Quixote hastened
to his squire's side, and insisted for the sake of his unsupported wife and children that he
go no further, but to wait until some other time with the rest. Sancho retorted with a request
that his master cover his shoulders with his cloak, as the exertion had been too great and
had made him perspire freely, and he did not wish to run the risk of catching cold. Don Quixote
did as he was asked and begged Sancho to lie down; then he covered him with the cloak.

At dawn they resumed their journey, and when they had traveled three leagues, they came to
an inn. Don Quixote did not take it for a castle this time; as a matter of fact, ever since
he had found himself vanquished, he had begun to talk of and see things in a more rational
way. They entered, and when Sancho saw the painted pictures on the wall he remarked to his
master that not long from now there would be paintings picturing their deeds in every tavern
and inn in the country. Don Quixote then turned to his squire and asked him whether he would
like to finish the whipping business that day, and Sancho said it made no difference to him
when he did it; he only made a suggestion that he thought he would prefer to do it among the
trees as they seemed to help him bear the pain miraculously. But on second consideration Don
Quixote deemed it advisable to put it off till a later time, when they were closer to their
village, in case Sancho should have a breakdown as a result of his flogging himself. Their
conversation came to an end when Sancho began to shoot proverbs at his master out of the corner
of his mouth at such a speed that Don Quixote was overwhelmed and tore his hair in desperation.
Among the first to meet them were the curate and Samson Carrasco, who had discovered at a distance
the red robe the Duchess had given to Sancho as a memento of their friendship. Sancho had thrown
it over his donkey and the discarded armor, and it shone in the morning sun as brightly as
a fiery sunset. Dapple was also adorned with the miter, which proudly crowned the beast's head.

When Don Quixote saw his old friends, he dismounted and embraced them; and all the little boys
in town came running to see the sight of Dapple and the returning revivers of knight-errantry.
They called out to their playmates: "Come here, fellows, and see how Sancho Panza's donkey
is rigged out; and take a look at Don Quixote's horse: he is leaner than ever!"

As they walked through the village, it was a whole parade that followed them; and at Don Quixote's
house they were received by the niece and the housekeeper, who had already heard of the return.

Teresa Panza, too, had been given the news, but she was sorely disappointed when she ran out
with her two dirty children to welcome the returning Governor. She scolded him soundly for
coming home dressed like a vagabond. But Sancho told her to put a clamp on her tongue, for
he did bring her money, at any rate, he said. Then his daughter fell on his neck and kissed
him, and in the next instant the whole family had dragged him inside their little cottage.

Don Quixote shut himself in with the curate and the bachelor, as soon as he had entered his
house, and related to them the sad story of his defeat, and the promise he had made to the
Knight of the White Moon; and then he broached his new idea, that of turning shepherd. He told
his friends he had chosen new names for them, for he hoped that they would share his new life
with him; and they at once praised his scheme and promised that as shepherds they would accompany
him in his pursuit of happiness. Samson added that he would be an especially valuable member
of the pastoral colony, for he knew how to write poetry, and would devote his time to singing
the praises of their simple life. Of course, there must be shepherdesses, too, Don Quixote
ruled, and they could be represented by such modest and virtuous women as Dulcinea and Teresa
Panza.

When they had conversed in this pleasant manner for some time, the curate and the bachelor
left, begging Don Quixote to take good care of himself and to eat plentifully. As soon as they
had departed, the niece and the housekeeper, who had overheard the three men, entered the late
knight's room and begged him not to turn shepherd saying that his health was not such as to
allow him to dwell in the open in the damp night air; sooner or later he would succumb, they
said, and take ill and die. They were both agreed that the foolishness of knight-errantry was
much better than this craze. They entreated him to remain at home, to go to confession often,
and to indulge in doing good deeds and being kind to the poor, instead. But Don Quixote would
have none of their advice. He told them he knew where his duty lay. Then he implored them to
put him to bed, saying that they ought to know he had always their interest at heart, no matter
what happened.

The two women began to weep, and then they helped Don Quixote to bed, and there they did all
they could to make him comfortable, and gave him something to eat. All this time his faithful
Sancho remained at his bedside; and his friends, the curate, the barber and the bachelor, visited
him frequently. They all did what they could, for they seemed to sense that the sickness was
brought on by the sad thought of his having been forced to give up his great hope of reviving
knight-errantry.

When the doctor was sent for, he said frankly that it was time for Don Quixote to turn his
thoughts to his soul; and when the niece and the devoted housekeeper heard this, they began
to weep bitterly. The physician was of the same opinion as the curate and Don Quixote's other
friends: that melancholy and unhappiness were the cause of the present state of his health.

Soon Don Quixote asked to be left alone, and then he fell into a long sleep, which lasted over
six hours. It provoked the anxiety of the two women, who were afraid he would never wake up
again. She asked Don Quixote gently what he meant, and what sins of men he was speaking of.
He replied in a voice full of calmness and serenity that God had just freed his reason, for
he realized now how ignorance in believing in the absurdities of the books of chivalry had
distorted his mind and vision so sadly. He regretted, he said, that he saw the light so late
in life that there was no time for him to show his repentance by reading other books, which
might have helped his soul. Then he begged his niece to send for the curate, the bachelor Carrasco,
and the barber, as he wished to confess his sins and make his will before he departed from
this earth. And he went on to say how he now loathed all books of chivalry which had brought
him to the state he was in, and how happy he was in the thought that God had made him see his
folly. The three men could only think that this was some new craze of their friend's and tried
to persuade him not to talk thus, now that they had just got news of his peerless Dulcinea
and were all of them about to become shepherds in order to keep him company; and they begged
him to be rational and talk no more nonsense. But soon they realized that Don Quixote was not
jesting, for he begged them to send for a notary, and while the bachelor went to fetch him,
the barber went to soothe the women; and the curate alone remained with Don Quixote to confess him.

When the good curate came out after the confession, the women gathered about him and when he
told them that Don Quixote was indeed dying, they broke into sobs, for they loved him genuinely
and dearly. The notary then came, and Don Quixote made his will. The first person he thought
of was his faithful and beloved companion, Sancho Panza, whose simplicity and affection he
rewarded by leaving him all the money of his own that was now in Sancho's possession. Had he
had a kingdom to give him, he said, it would scarcely have been sufficient reward for all that
Sancho had done for him.

But although Samson Carrasco tried to persuade the dying knight that Sancho had reasoned rightly,
they at last came to the conclusion that Don Quixote really was in his right senses, and that
God had worked a miracle.

They now let the notary proceed and one of the stipulations in the will was that if his niece,
Antonia Quixana, ever married a man who had read books of chivalry, she should by so doing
forfeit all that he had left to her, and instead it would go to charity. Another clause contained
a request to the executors to offer his humble apologies to the author of the Second Part of
"The Achievements of Don Quixote of La Mancha" for his having committed so many absurdities
that had been a provocation to the author to write this book.

When he had dictated the last words of his will, a sudden faintness came over Don Quixote,
and for three days after that he was in a state between life and death. At last the end came,
and he passed away so calmly that the notary felt compelled to confess that he never had read
of any knight errant in the whole wide world who had breathed his last breath so peacefully.

The bachelor, Samson Carrasco, wrote am epitaph for his tomb; and there is written on a tombstone
in a little village of La Mancha the praise that those who knew and loved the valiant and doughty,
yet gentle Don Quixote of La Mancha felt in their hearts for him, whose last wish was that
he might die as Alonso Quixano the Good.

THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcribers' note:

The Title Page of this book credits Arvid Paulson and Clayton Edwards as being the authors
of this work. The original Don Quixote of The Mancha was written, in Spanish, by Miguel de
Cervantes Saavedra around 1605. It has been translated into many languages and editions. This
book is based on Cervantes' story. The catalogue of the Library of Congress lists Cervantes
as the author of this book, and Paulson and Edwards are included as "related names."

Variations in spelling, such as grey/gray or pretence/pretense have been left as they appear
in the original book.

Some items that appear to be typographic errors have been changed as follows.

Page 28 Corrected Neverthelesss to remove extra "s".

Page 63 Corrected imcomparable to incomparable.

Page 130 Corrected hilarously to hilariously.

Page 231 Corrected sacrilegeous to sacrilegious in the passage that read "When the confessor
heard the sacrilegeous conversation".

Page 237 Corrected Doño to Doña in the passage that read "and told her of the incident with
Doño Rodriguez".

Page 246 Corrected expresseed to expressed.

Page 257 Deleted superfluous "to" in the passage that read "he confided to to his master the
resemblance in voice and appearance".

Chapter LIII Page 277 "and lifted him up from his vertical position." has been left as it appears
in the book, although the intent would appear to be "horizontal" rather than "vertical". Don
Quixote has been changed to Antonio as this appears to be a typographic error as Don Quixote
is the knight in question.

Page 309 Changed lead to led in the passage that reads "through a tube that lead from the inside
of the head".

Page 317 Corrected Stubborness to Stubbornness in the passage that read "but Sancho was unflinching
in his stubborness and insisted".

Page 328 Corrected to affliction in the passage that reads "in time be cured of his strange
affiction".

Changes Have Been Made to Table of Contents As Follows. It has been amended to "of the Grove"
to match this and the next chapter heading and sense of the story line. It has been amended
to match the chapter heading. This has been removed to agree with the chapter heading.