Krogs. Right. I am a forger, and a money-lender; I am on the staff of the Norwegian Punch--a
most scurrilous paper. More, I have been blackmailing Mrs. HELMER by trading on her fears like
a low cowardly cur. But, in spite of all that--(clasping his hands)--there are the makings
of a fine man about me yet, CHRISTINA!

Mrs. L. I believe you--at least, I'll chance it. I want some one to care for, and I'll marry you.

Krogs. (suspiciously). On condition, I suppose, that I suppress the letter denouncing Mrs. HELMER?

Mrs. L. How can you think so? I am her dearest friend: but I can still see her faults, and
it is my firm opinion that a sharp lesson will do her all the good in the world. She is much
too comfortable. So leave the letter in the box, and come home with me.

Krogs. I am wildly happy! Engaged to the female Cashier of the Manager who has discharged me,
our future is bright and secure!

    [He goes out; and Mrs. LINDEN sets the furniture straight;
    presently a noise is heard outside, and HELMER enters,
    dragging NORA in. She is in fancy dress, and he in an open
    black domino.

Nora. I shan't! It's too early to come away from such a nice party. I won't go to bed! [She
whimpers.

Helmer (tenderly). There'sh a naughty lil' larkie for you, Mrs. LINEN! Poshtively had to drag
her 'way! She'sh a capricious lil' girl--from Capri. 'Scuse me!--'fraid I've been and made
a pun. Shan' 'cur again! Shplendid champagne the Consul gave us--'counts for it! (Sits down,
smiling.) Do you knit, Mrs. COTTON?... You shouldn't. Never knit. 'Broider. (Nodding to her,
solemnly.) 'Member that. Alwaysh 'broider. More--(hiccoughing)--Oriental! Gobblesh you!--goo'ni!

Mrs. Linden. I only came in to--to see NORA's costume. Now I've seen it, I'll go. [Goes out.

Helmer. Awful bore that woman--hate boresh! (Looks at NORA, then comes nearer.) Oh, you prillil
squillikins, I do love you so! Shomehow, I feel sho lively thishevenin'!

Nora (goes to other side of table). I won't have all that, TORVALD!

Helmer. Why? ain't you my lil' lark--ain't thish our lil' cage? Ver-well, then. (A ring.) RANK!
confound it all! (Enter Dr. RANK.) RANK, dear old boy, you've been (hiccoughs) going it upstairs.
Cap'tal champagne, eh? 'Shamed of you, RANK! [He sits down on sofa, and closes his eyes gently.

Rank. Did you notice it? (with pride). It was almost incredible the amount I contrived to put
away. But I shall suffer for it to-morrow (gloomily). Heredity again! I wish I was dead! I do.

Nora. Don't apologise. TORVALD was just as bad; but he is always so good-tempered after champagne.

Rank. Ah, well, I just looked in to say that I haven't long to live. Don't weep for me, Mrs.
HELMER, it's chronic--and hereditary too. Here are my P.P.C. cards. I'm a fading flower. Can
you oblige me with a cigar?

Nora (with a suppressed smile). Certainly. Let me give you a light?

    [RANK lights his cigar, after several ineffectual attempts,
    and goes out.

Helmer (compassionately). Poo' old RANK--he'sh very bad to-ni'! (Pulls himself together.) But
I forgot--Bishness--I mean, bu-si-ness--mush be 'tended to. I'll go and see if there are any
letters. (Goes to box.) Hallo! someone's been at the lock with a hairpin--it's one of your
hairpins! [Holding it out to her.

Nora (quickly). Not mine--one of BOB's, or IVAR's--they both wear hairpins!

Helmer (turning over letters absently). You must break them of it--bad habit! What a lot o'
lettersh! double usual quantity. (Opens KROGSTAD's.) By Jove! (Reads it and falls back completely
sobered.) What have you got to say to this?

Nora (crying aloud.) You shan't save me--let me go! I won't be saved!

Helmer. Save you, indeed! Who's going to save Me? You miserable little criminal. (Annoyed.)
Ugh--ugh!

Nora (with hardening expression). Indeed, TORVALD, your singing-bird acted for the best!

Helmer. Singing-bird! Your father was a rook--and you take after him. Heredity again! You have
utterly destroyed my happiness. (Walks round several times.) Just as I was beginning to get
on, too!

Nora. I have--but I will go away and jump into the water.

Helmer. What good will that do me? People will say I had a hand in this business (bitterly).
If you must forge, you might at least put your dates in correctly! But you never had any principle!
(A ring.) The front-door bell! (A fat letter is seen to fall into the box; HELMER takes it,
opens it, sees enclosure, and embraces NORA.) KROGSTAD won't split. See, he returns the forged
I.O.U.! Oh, my poor little lark, what you must have gone through! Come under my wing, my little
scared song-bird.... Eh? you won't! Why, what's the matter now?

Nora (with cold calm). I have wings of my own, thank you, TORVALD, and I mean to use them!

Helmer. What--leave your pretty cage, and (pathetically) the old cock bird, and the poor little
innocent eggs!

Nora. Exactly. Sit down, and we will talk it over first. (Slowly.) Has it ever struck you that
this is the first time you and I have ever talked seriously together about serious things?

Helmer. Come, I do like that! How on earth could we talk about serious things when your mouth
was always full of macaroons?

Nora (shakes her head). Ah, TORVALD, the mouth of a mother of a family should have more solemn
things in it than macaroons! I see that now, too late. No, you have wronged me. So did Papa.
Both of you called me a doll, and a squirrel, and a lark! You might have made something of
me--and instead of that, you went and made too much of me--oh, you did!

Helmer. Well, you didn't seem to object to it, and really I don't exactly see what it is you
do want!

Nora. No more do I--that is what I have got to find out. If I had been properly educated, I
should have known better than to date poor Papa's signature three days after he died. Now I
must educate myself. I have to gain experience, and get clear about religion, and law, and
things, and whether Society is right or I am--and I must go away and never come back any more
till I am educated!

Helmer. Then you may be away some little time? And what's to become of me and the eggs meanwhile?

Nora. That, TORVALD, is entirely your own affair. I have a higher duty than that towards you
and the eggs. (Looking solemnly upward.) I mean my duty towards Myself!

Helmer. And all this because--in a momentary annoyance at finding myself in the power of a
discharged Cashier who calls me "I say TORVALD," I expressed myself with ultra-Gilbertian frankness!
You talk like a silly child!

Nora. Because my eyes are opened, and I see my position with the eyes of IBSEN. I must go away
at once, and begin to educate myself.

Helmer. May I ask how you are going to set about it?

Nora. Certainly. I shall begin--yes, I shall begin with a course of the Norwegian theatres.
If that doesn't take the frivolity out of me, I don't really know what will! [She gets her
bonnet and ties it tightly.

Helmer. Then you are really going? And you'll never think about me and the eggs any more! Oh, NORA!

Nora. Indeed, I shall, occasionally--as strangers. (She puts on a shawl sadly, and fetches
her dressing-bag.) If I ever do come back, the greatest miracle of all will have to happen.
Good-bye! [She goes out through the hall; the front-door is heard to bang loudly.

Helmer (sinking on a chair). The room empty? Then she must be gone! Yes, my little lark has
flown! (The dull sound of an unskilled latchkey is heard trying the lock; presently the door
opens, and Nora, with a somewhat foolish expression, reappears.) What? back already! Then you
are educated?

Nora (puts down dressing-bag). No, TORVALD, not yet. Only, you see, I found I had only threepence-halfpenny
in my purse, and the Norwegian theatres are all closed at this hour--and so I thought I wouldn't
leave the cage till to-morrow--after breakfast.

Helmer (as if to himself). The greatest miracle of all has happened. My little bird is not
in the bush just yet!

    [NORA takes down a showily bound dictionary from the shelf
    and begins her education; HELMER fetches a bag of macaroons,
    sits near her, and tenders one humbly. A pause. NORA
    repulses it, proudly. He offers it again. She snatches at
    it suddenly, still without looking at him, and nibbles it
    thoughtfully as Curtain falls.

THE END (with Mr. Punch's apologies to the Master).

       *       *       *       *       *

MODERN TYPES.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S OWN TYPE WRITER.)

NO. XXIV.--THE GIVER OF PARTIES.

It may be that "Party," in the sense of a hospitable entertainment, is an obsolete word, and
that those who speak of "giving a party" prove themselves, by the mere expression, to be fogeys
whom the rushing stream of London amusements has long since thrown up on the sandy bank of
middle age, there to grow dull and forget that their legs were ever apt for the waltz, or their
digestions able to cope with lobster mayonnaise at 2 A.M. Yet, though he who thus speaks may
not be as smart as a swell, or as much up to date as a church-parade-goer, the expression will
serve, for it indicates comprehensively enough every variety of entertainment known to the
London Season--the dance, the dinner, the reception, the music at home, the tea-party, and
the theatre-party, for all these in her benevolence does the Giver of Parties offer to us,
and all these does she find the world of London eager to accept. Now it would seem, one would
imagine, to be the easiest thing in the world, if only the money be not wanting, to give a
party. A hostess, so someone may say, has but to invite her friends, to light her rooms, to
spread her tables, to set the champagne flowing, to order an awning, and to hire music and
a linkman, and the thing is done. The result of all this will no doubt be a party--of a sort,
but of a sort far different, however gorgeous it may be, from the splendid and widely-advertised
gatherings which the genuine Giver of Parties organises. For in the one variety it is just
possible that enjoyment may be one of the main objects sought and attained; in the latter it
is certain that enjoyment, though it is not always absent, must yield the precedence to social
success and promotion in the scale of Society. These are the objects that the Giver of Parties,
as it is proposed to describe her, has at heart, and to their attainment she devotes herself
with a persistent and all-embracing energy which no disappointment is capable of daunting.
The envy of her friends, the smiles and the presence of Royalty, may be hers, but there is
always some loftier height to which she must climb before she can say to herself, "J'y suis,
j'y reste," and be thankful.

Her life has known many changes. Her parents were county people of good descent and position,
but of a reduced income, for which they apparently sought compensation in an increasing family,
mostly daughters. It was necessary that she should marry young, and she submitted to necessity
by accepting the proposal of a man some ten years her senior, who had already come to be favourably
spoken off for the success of his commercial ventures. It is needless to add that all her relations
took good care to impress upon her mind the fact that the alliance was an honour to her husband,
whose wealth, even though it might in time rival that of the ROTHSCHILDS, could never make
him fit to be mentioned in the same breath with one who numbered among her remoter ancestors
a Baron, who had fought and bled on many fields for King CHARLES THE FIRST. However, the marriage
took place in spite of the inequality of rank, and the much-honoured husband bore his wife
with him to London, where for a time the modest comfort of a house in distant Bayswater satisfied
them. Business prospered, and money came pouring in. The wife, who, it must be said, had undeniable
beauty, excellent manners, and the trick of intuitively adapting herself to any society, was
taken up by a great lady who happened to see her holding a stall at a large bazaar in which
the fashionable world took some interest. Acting upon the great lady's suggestion, she was
photographed in the becoming Tyrolese peasant's costume which she wore as a stall-holder, and
the photograph was in some mysterious way engraved in all the illustrated papers of the following
week. Her name was enshrined in paragraphs, she was observed in the Royal Enclosure at Ascot,
she was introduced to a Royal personage who was pleased to confer upon her the distinction
of his smiles, and to mention her to the select circle of his intimates as "a very pretty,
pleasant little woman." And thus she was started upon the thorny path of ambitious pleasure.

It is well known that the sacred fire of fashion burns--or is supposed to burn--in Belgravia
alone. Its warmth drew her irresistibly. Bayswater became too cold to hold her, and early in
the following year it was announced that a large house in the purlieus of Grosvenor Square
had been purchased by her husband. However, she was content to climb by degrees, and, in her
first season of social brilliancy, she restricted herself to a small and early dance, and a
musical evening. At the dance, universal admiration was excited by the lavish profusion of
the flowers with which her staircase was adorned, by the excellent quality of the champagne,
and the inexhaustible supply of oysters. At the musical evening the music was as admirably
rendered as it was completely neglected. And at both parties only those people were present
as to whose social status and absolute "rightness" there could be no question. Indeed the dancer,
whose foot had been trodden upon at the former, might console herself with the thought that
none but a noble boot had caused her pain; while at the latter the sounds of heavy breathing,
which mingled inharmoniously with Mlle. FALSETTI's bravura, were forgiven, in consideration
of the exalted rank of their producer. Her success seemed now to be assured, and even the muttered
discontent of a neglected husband, who was foolish enough to prefer comfort to smartness, began
to subside. In the following year her entertainments became even more splendid, and less comfortable.
She took a house at Ascot, and, triumph of triumphs! a scion of Royalty deigned to accept her
hospitality.

After this, one would have supposed that she might have reposed for a space. But the penalty
of social life is its never-ending necessity for movement. Jealous rivals abound to dispute
a hardly-won supremacy, and the least sign of faltering may involve extinction. Yet it must
be said that she is kind to her own, even when she is most brilliant. She brings out a daughter
to be the delight of young Guardsmen, and marries her to a widowed Peer; she furbishes up forgotten
relations, and allows them to shine in the rays of her glory; she is charitable after the manner
of fancy fairs, and the hospitality of her house becomes proverbial. But, in the midst of all
the bustle, the confusion, and the rattling turmoil of her career, she sometimes sighs for
the undistinguished ease of her life in the pre-Royal days, sighs, and returns with fresh vigour
to the struggle.

And so the pleasureless days of the pleasure-seeker follow one another, each with its particular
legacy of little strivings, until, at the last, consolation may come from the thought that
there is at least one place where there are many mansions, but no social ambitions.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW PRAYER-BOOK REVISION.--Several alterations will now have to be made in the marriage service.
If it be permissible for the bride to omit her promise "to obey," as is reported to have been
the case at a wedding last week, why should any undertaking "to love," "to honour," "to cherish,"
and so forth remain in the text? With all this left out, a marriage, which, of course, will
no longer be an ecclesiastical rite, will hardly be a very civil ceremony. In course of time
all the promises will be made either explicitly or implicitly conditional, the only question
being what is the least possible obligation that can be incurred by both contracting parties
at the smallest possible expense.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

NOT CAUGHT YET!

  The Boy and the Bird! And the Bird looks so old;--
  Scarce the species of fowl to be easily "sold,"--
  And the Boy is so young! It seems almost absurd
  To suppose that that pinch is to capture that Bird!

  An old form of chase, if the legends run right;
  Like that, much akin, of the wild goose in flight.
  But salt, just like chaff and the plainly spread net,
  Was never regarded as promising yet.

  But now? Well, the Birds of the age, like its Boys,
  Its Wives, and its Weather, its Tastes and its Toys,
  Have suffered a change, not a sea-change, but one
  Which floors half the maxims, and spoils half the fun.

  Simple SIMON? Well, that's not as clear as it looks.
  The typical noodles of nursery books
  Were podgy and chubby, or lanky and pale,
  And--they tried to drop salt on poor dicky-bird's tail!

  A fat boy in tight breeks with a palpable bait
  May look a great fool; but I guess we must wait,--
  Before we bemock him as crass and absurd,--
  To see--what effect it will have on the Bird!

  The trial's well timed, and the bait looks "not bad;"
  The Boy may "know his book," though he's only a lad.
  Birds sometimes fall victims to Boys on the prowl,
  And the Voter Bird is not the wariest fowl.

  The Voter Bird shortly must show what he's worth
  He may be the stupidest dicky on earth,
  Predestinate victim to salt-pinch or net;
  But then he may not,--and he is "not caught yet!"

       *       *       *       *       *

AN AUTOCRAT'S ASPIRATION.--Pan-Slavism for Holy Russia, and Pan-Slav(e)ism for the rest of Europe.

       *       *       *       *       *

LAND AND BRAIN.

(A PAGE FROM A VADE MECUM FOR POLITICAL ECONOMISTS.)

    Question. Can you tell me how long an Author has a right to the
  profits arising out of his literary labours?
    Answer. Forty-two years, or the term of his natural life plus
  seven years further, whichever may be the longer.
    Q. And should Lord MONKSWELL's Copyright Bill, which has
  been read a First Time in the House of Peers, become law, will not
  this right be extended to thirty years after the death of the Author?
    A. It will, to his great advantage. The same measure contains
  other valuable provisions to secure to the Author the just profit of
  his brain-work.
    Q. But will not these advantages be purchased at the price of a
  loss to the general good?
    A. Very likely--the community will suffer for the benefit of the
  individual.
    Q. In like manner a Patentee, who invents a most useful article,
  enjoys (for a consideration) a monopoly of its sale, does he not?
    A. For fourteen years. This enables him to recoup himself for
  the thought and labour he has employed in the most useful article's
  construction.
    Q. If Author and Inventor were allowed an absolute monopoly of
  the profits arising out of their brain-work, it would be immoral?
    A. No doubt, as the individuals would benefit at the cost of the
  community.
    Q. Why should a butterman, then, have an absolute right in the
  sale of his butter?
    A. Because butter is butter, and brains are merely brains.
    Q. And would it not be for the benefit of the community if the
  landowner of a freehold were deprived of his rights after a term of
  years, and his holding be given to the public?
    A. Oh dear, no! Land, as RUDYARD KIPLING would say, "is
  quite another story!"

       *       *       *       *       *

COUNSEL'S MOTTO (objected to in the Committee Rooms).--"Absence makes the fees grow stronger."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATIC NOTES.

The first night of the Mixed Italian Opera Season, 1891. We open with GLÜCK's Orféo, and, in
a strong opera-glass, we drink to DRURIOLANUS OPERATICUS, and say, "Here's G-luck t'you!" Nothing
can begin the season better than the appearance of GIULIA and SOFIA RAVOGLI--specially GIULIA--"There's
something 'bout GIULIA So werry peculia'"--(Old Song)--in this short Opera, that is to say,
an Opera which should be short were it not for the "waits" between the Scenes and Acts, which,
as it is in the nature of weights to do, must always make even the lightest Opera seem heavy.
Mlle. GIULIA sang and acted perfectly. Her rendering of the last song was most pathetic. This
delicious melody the audience would have had over and over again, not in merry mood, for we
are never merry in the hearing of such sweet music, but in appreciative sympathy with the woes
of Orpheus so sweetly expressed. The lines in Bombastes rise in my memory:--

  "So ORPHEUS sang of old, or poets lie,
    And--"

On consideration, however, I will not quote the remainder, but will say simply that we were
all charmed. Welcome, at the commencement of another season, to Mlle. BAUERMEISTER, appearing
as Cupid. To-morrow she will be Dame Marta! Wonderful! "Time cannot stale her infinite variety."
How is it, O première danseuse, my pretty pretty Polly Hop-kino PALLADINO, Principal Shade
among all these Happy but Shady characters, that thou didst not choose a classic dance in keeping
with the character of the music and of the ideal--I distinctly emphasise "ideal"--surroundings?
What oughtest thou to represent in the Elysian Fields? A Salvationised "Dancing Girl," without
bonnet and tambourine? Nay, not so; but rather the very spirit of classic grace and elegance,
moving rhythmically to melodious measure. In such a Scene as this ought to be, we want as much
idealism as your graceful art can lend, otherwise we are only among our old friends, "the ladies
and gentlemen of the Chorus"--bless em!--representing most substantially the "Shades of the
Blessed," who appear to be Shades of every colour. GIULIA RAVOGLI, however, kept us entranced
in the ancient classic land where once we used to wander. "Vive Lemprière!"

Second Night.--Faust, with a new Marguerite, Gay dog, Faust. How many Marguerites have there
been even in my time! Same old story. Faust not a whit improved by experience--going on just
the same as ever. His new Marguerite does credit to his choice, for Mlle. EAMES--(isn't she
Miss EAMES, and neither Mademoiselle nor Signora? And doesn't she hail from Columbia?--but
no matter)--is a sweet-looking Marguerite, with a voice as true as is her heart to Faust. A
genuine Gretchen, simple not brilliant. Brilliancy she leaves to property diamonds, but awakes
enthusiasm, by her judicious acting over the inert body of Valentine, when she attempts no
sudden Colwell-Hatchney shriek, always so perilous. Signor PEROTTI looked as Faust might have
done, had he been elected an Alderman of the City of London and acted up to the character.
If DRURIOLANUS had lent him his Sheriff's chain to wear, Signor PEROTTI would have been perfect,
that is from this point of view. M. MAUREL excellent as Mephisto in a new suit of clothes.
He appears now as "The Gentleman in Grey"--rather suggestive of his having become a Volunteer,
and a member, of course, of "the Devil's Own." Imagine Mephistopheles re-dressed at last! On
both nights Signor MANCINELLI, the Conductor, seemed pleased, and that's something.

Great feature in Covent Garden this year is the decoration of the Pit-tier Lobby. DRURIOLANUS,
feeling happy at the Opera prospects, and rejoicing in a full subscription, said to the Committee,
"Gentlemen, let's have 'glasses round'!" Some officious person, hearing this, mistook the meaning
of the great Chief, and straightway ran off and ordered looking-glasses all round for the Lobby!
Grand effect! brilliant! dazzling!--too much so, in fact; several glasses too much. So, after
a couple of nights' reflection, when the habitués came on Thursday, behold, two or three of
the aristocratic mirrors or Peer-glasses had disappeared, the hat-pegs of former times had
been restored, the wounded susceptibilities of the Stall-keepers whose occupation was partly
gone, were healed, and where gloom was spreading, wreathed smiles once more prevailed. Even
now these Opera-glasses are rather too powerful. Still, "let us see ourselves as others see
us," is a good practical motto for the loiterer in the lobby, as he catches sight of himself,
en passant, and wonders who that chap is, whose face he has seen somewhere before, but whose
name he can't for the life of him recollect.

Thursday.--Carmen. Disappointed with JULIA RAVOGLI in this, though there are some fine bits
of acting in it. Didn't care much about Sister SOFIA as Mickie the Maiden, M. LUBERT's Don
José good but not great; and M. CELLI, who, in default of M. DEVOYOD's not being able to appear,
took the part of Escamillo, was great, but not very good. He was, however, well supported by
Signor RANDEGGER and the Orchestra, and considering the difficulties he had to struggle with,
including an apology in the bills, he came out of it safely.

Saturday.--Re-appearance of the great DE RESZKE Brothers, JOHN and NED (what's JOHN without
an 'ed?) in Lohengrin. Admirable. JULIA RAVOGLI excellent as Ortruda, and M. MAUREL equally
so as Freddy. But why did he "feather his skull," like the Jolly Young Waterman, in so remarkable
a style? However, his Freddy is a feather in his cap with which he ought to be satisfied. Miss
EAMES as Elsa even better than as Marguerite. Crammed house. "Friends in front" more than satisfied.
Good start.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OF THE UN-SENTIMENTALIST.

THE EARLY GREEN PEA.

  Oh, the early green pea! the early green pea!
  Is the dish of all dishes to set before me!
  You may tell me of salmon caught fresh from the Tay,
  The beauties of plump white spring chicken display,
  The strawberry ripened three months before date--
  All these and much else you may set on my plate!
  But of them, no not one, stirs such rapture in me
  As the sweet, mellow taste of the Early Green Pea!

  Oh, the early green pea, the pea of my taste,
  Must be gently assisted, not forced in hot haste,
  Lest the flavour it yield prove delusive and flat,
  In no way suggesting the young Marrowfat!
  But if it do this, oh what more could I wish,
  Than to see a young duckling form part of the dish!
  So with such a banquet spread out before me,
  Can you ask why I worship the Early Green Pea!

       *       *       *       *       *

IN MEMORIAM.--As a tribute expressive of the high estimation in which the late Mr. P.T. BARNUM
was held in England, why not endow a "Barnum Exhibition" at one of the Colleges of either University?
We have "Smith's Prizeman," why not "Barnum Exhibitioner"?

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE PRODIGY SON."--The three-act pantomime play at the Prince of Wales's has "caught on,"
as we predicted it would. Manager SEDGER thinks of temporarily adopting as his motto for this
theatre, "Speech is silvern, silence is golden."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SWORD VERSUS LANCET!

(AN INCIDENT IN THE NEXT WAR.)

"Now," said the Surgeon-Field-Marshal-Commanding-in-Chief, as he stood before his men; "I have
the greatest confidence in your skill. There is not one of you present who cannot perform an
operation as successfully as myself;" here there was a murmur of polite denial in the ranks.
"Nay, it is no flattery--I mean it. These are my last instructions. We are few, the enemy are
many. We are not only soldiers but medical men. And as medical men it is our business to cure
the wounds that we inflict in our more strictly military capacity."

Again there was a murmur--this time of cordial approval.

"Well, Gentlemen, as we have been taught in our drill, what the first rank breaks, the rear
rank must bandage up. This would be all very well if our numbers were told by thousands, or
even hundreds, instead of tens. But to-day we must use the bayonet rather than the lancet,
the bullet in preference to the pill." Stealthy applause followed this observation. "But be
careful. Common humanity calls upon us to do as little damage as possible. You know your anatomy
sufficiently well to avoid inflicting a wound upon a vital part, and can so arrange that your
blows shall incapacitate rather than functionally derange. And now, my friends, put your instrument-boxes
and pharmacopoeias in your haversacks, and draw your swords. All ready? Yes! Then, 'Up, Guards,
and at them!'"

With a wild cheer the Royal Regiment of Physicians and Surgeons (which had recently been admitted
into the Service on the footing of the Royal Engineers) rushed forward. It was a beautiful
sight to see them performing the most delicate operations in the kindest manner imaginable.
The enemy trembled, wavered, and fled. In a moment the Royal Regiment had put up their swords
and taken out their medical appliances. Their military duties done, and they were doctors once
again, ready to help those who demanded their semi-civilian services. They had scarcely been
engaged in this manner ten minutes when the Surgeon-Field-Marshal-Commanding-in-Chief cantered
up to them. "Men," he cried, "drop your surgical instruments, and draw your swords. The enemy
are again upon us! We must take their fort!"

In a moment the Royal Regiment was on the march. On their way, some of their comrades, wounded
by the foe (in a bungling fashion), appealed to them for succour.

"Very Sorry," replied the Surgeon-Field-Marshal-Commanding-in-Chief, in a tone of commiseration;
"very sorry indeed, but we can't attend to you. At this moment we are acting in our strictly
military capacity!" And the Royal Regiment of Physicians and Surgeons, full of enthusiasm (but
in rather loose formation) continued their march to the fort.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Tourmalin's Time Cheques, drawn on the bank of eccentric imagination by ANSTEY-GUTHRIE, is
well worthy of the author of Vice Versâ. The construction of the story is as artful as it is
artistic, but the Baron cannot give his reason for this opinion without jeopardising the reader's
pleasure. Still the Baron feels pretty certain that when the much-amused and greatly-chuckling
but diligent and conscientious peruser of this light-hearted romance arrives at the last few
pages, he will frown, rub his eyes, refer back to the very commencement of the story,--and
then? Will he bless ANSTEY and blow GUTHRIE, or bless GUTHRIE and blow ANSTEY, or will he,
being more tickled than ever, rush off to recommend it at once to his best friends, anticipating
renewed delight from their pleasure and perplexity? The Baron wishes that ANSTEY and GUTHRIE
had settled between them to call it Tourmalin's Time Bargains; but it is very likely that if
ANSTEY suggested it, GUTHRIE rejected it, or, if the Baron may be permitted to say so without
infringement of copyright, "vice versâ." It is a great satisfaction to know that unlike the
ERCKMANN-CHATRIAN collaboration, the ANSTEY-GUTHRIE partnership cannot be dissolved. JEKYL-AND-HYDE
can cease to be, and JEKYL may alone survive; but the Baron rejoices in the fact of the mysterious
bond between ANSTEY and GUTHRIE being indissoluble. Read Tourmalin's Time Cheques, and remember
the prognostications of THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

EXTRACTED FBOM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.

House of Commons, Monday, April 6.--School reopened after Easter Holidays. OLD MORALITY duly
in his place, but not many of the boys. Civil Service Estimates on; PLUNKET in charge on Ministerial
side; SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE'S GATE Leader of Opposition. Hammered away all night on old familiar
lines. Ghosts of old acquaintances feebly crossed floor, disappearing behind SPEAKER's chair.
Kensington Palace, with its cost; Bushey House; Cambridge Cottage; admission to Holyrood Palace;
the deer in Home Park at Hampton Court; the pheasants in Richmond Park; the frescoes in House
of Lords; the Grille of the Ladies' Gallery: the British Consular House at Cairo--each came
up in turn; talked about; protested against; explained; divided upon, and voted. PLUNKET left
to himself on Treasury Bench; bore up with unflagging energy and perennial patience; has heard
same points raised every year since he was First Commissioner; has made same replies, and has
seen Votes passed. Long before he was in office same thing used to go on with other First Commissioners.
That was before the SAGE had taken to politics. Good old RYLANDS--"Preposterous PETER"--was
then the Grand Inquisitor. But it was the same deer, the same gas-bills, the same question
of free residence for "that eminent warrior," as the SAGE to-night called him, the Dook of
CAMBRIDGE.

Oddly enough, almost only flash of humour through long sitting came from GEORGE CAMPBELL. Gave
graphic description of his hanging about Holyrood Palace hankering after admission. According
to existing regulation, admission to be gained only after bang goes two saxpences. For sixteen
years Sir GEORGE ever lured to vicinity; sometimes casually entered doorway, proposing to loiter
past ticket-collector; stopped by demand of a shilling, had resisted temptation. That was sad,
but what he felt most acutely was injury done to his nation. Americans visiting Edinburgh on
their way to Paris went to Holyrood: charged a shilling. "Ha! ha!" they cried, "see these stingy
Scotchmen. They charge a shilling before they throw open their one Palace door, whilst in England
you may roam through the Palaces free of charge,"

"Sir," cried Sir GEORGE, his voice under generous excitement of the moment taking on rasping
tone, "the arrangement is prejudicial to the reputation of Scotchmen."

"This," said the SAGE, "will, I think, be an opportunity of going out for another cigarette."

Business done.--Handsful of Votes in Supply.

Tuesday.--NAPOLEON B. BOLTON strolled down to House to-night, intending to hear what TOMLINSON
had to say on Emigration arrangements. In family circle it has always been considered that,
as far as personal resemblance to NAPOLEON BONAPARTE goes, the late Prince JEROME wasn't in
it with the Member for St. Pancras. BOLTON blushingly pooh-poohs the fond little fancy; but
he is of kindly disposition; not inclined to insist on his opinion in controversy to other
people's. Indeed, has gone so far as to furnish himself with fancy dress, fashioned on the
style of that worn by the great NAPOLEON on State occasions. To-night, been at a children's
party, showing himself in his uniform. Am told that, when he folds his arms, throws back his
head, and recites, "On Linden, when the sun was low," you would think the Great Emperor had
come back from St. Helena.

Intended to-night to create sensation in House. Doubted whether, as he was not about to move
the Address, he would be permitted to enter with sword by his side. But he would be free of
the smoke-room; might posture in the Lobby; might read an evening paper in the tea-room, whilst
others enviously glanced at his epaulettes.

Here he was at ten minutes past nine standing in his favourite attitude at the Bar, no one
having challenged his entrance. Fact is, House was up; not Counted Out, but having duly gone
through the Orders and passed the Second Reading of an important measure. Such a day the Government
had had! At Morning Sitting had ramped through the Orders, advancing Bill after Bill through
critical stages. House nearly empty; Opposition effaced; Irish Members all absent except Brer
RABBIT, who wanders about looking for Brer FOX. The only note of discord sounded in voice of
GEORGE CAMPBELL. Report of Supply reached at a quarter to seven. At ten minutes to seven, in
accordance with Rule ordering Morning Sitting, Debate must stop. One or two questions asked;
quickly answered by PLUNKET; Vote after Vote agreed to on report stage. Then CAMPBELL gets
up and wants to know about lighting the National History Museum at night?

Twelve minutes to seven.

PLUNKET looks anxiously at clock. If CAMPBELL would put his question and sit down he might
be answered, and report stage got through. But CAMPBELL goes on till hand of clock points to
ten minutes to seven.

"Order, order!" cries SPEAKER. Time limit reached; no more debate; CAMPBELL not finished yet;
attempts to proceed; angry shouts of "Order! Order!" before which he subsides. Then, watching
opportunity, suddenly bolts up again and wants to explain that he was not opposing the passage
of report stage of Supply. "No, but you talked it out," said PLUNKET, with something less than
his customary suavity.

This happened more than two hours ago. There has been the suspension of the Sitting, the resumption
at nine o'clock, the Second Reading of the Rating of Machinery Bill; and now all is over, the
guests are fled, the garlands dead, and all but NAPOLEON B. BOLTON departed. He, in fact, has
only just arrived, and wishes he had not been in such a hurry to quit the circle where of late
he was the object of awed admiration.

Business done.--Trenormous!

Thursday.--House filled up to-night; flowing tide evidently with us, including Mr. G., back
after his holidays. Also Prince ARTHUR; been in training for some weeks in anticipation of
long spurt in Committee on Irish Land Bill. Irish Members also returned in considerable force.
Expected to find TIM HEALY arrive in fragments; but he's all there, much as usual.

"How's Brer FOX?" I asked him, wishing to hear latest news from Ireland.

"Oh," said he, "PARNELL's looking up."

"What do you mean?" I asked, astonished at this testimony.

"I mean, he's on his back, and, being in that position, must of course be looking up, if he's
looking anywhere at all."

Light-hearted TIM! Time does not wither, or DALTON O'BRIEN stale, his infinite variety.

