When he had shaken hands with his host at the door of his bedroom (which was emphatically the
room of a bed, a huge, be-stepped, pillared, testered contrivance that waited at one end of
the large apartment to murder sleep), Sir Robert fell to winding his watch with what looked
like interest, but all his thoughts were with the Aglonbys.

"English gentlefolks of the eighteenth century preserved in Virginian amber. What a curious
survival! 'Gentlemen of a period of manners, morals.' Remarkably interesting! Delightful types
of a society as extinct as the dodo," he was saying to himself. "There is but one mould for
the gentleman; but nature changes its shape with every century, I suppose,--though I sometimes
think she has gone out of the business altogether in utter disgust. We have got a lot of plutocrats
that are tailors' blocks, and nobles that talk like stable-boys and act like blackguards, and
both fancy themselves gentlemen; but when I contrast them with the men of my father's day even--And
this dainty, charming old bit of Chelsea-ware, Anne Buller! Her brothers treat her as though
she were a reigning princess. I wonder what she would say if she could see, as I did the other
day, a group of Nuneham girls calling each other by their last names and smoking cigarettes
with a half-dozen Cambridge men, who chaffed them and treated them exactly as though they were
so many boys in petticoats. Well, well, the world moves, I know, and I am an old fogy; but
I shall not make myself hoarse shouting 'Huzza' until I find out whether we are going to the
devil or not. I hope I am not getting as cynical as old Caradoc, who declares that he can always
tell a countess from an actress nowadays by the superior modesty and refinement of--the actress."

In the next few days Sir Robert carefully inspected the rambling, substantial old house, which,
to Miss Aglonby's chagrin, he pronounced "quite modern;" though he smiled when she informed
him that "Heart's Content" had been "refurnished quite recently,--in '48." He also went over
the land, only about four hundred acres, put the most searching questions as to its practical
value and uses, filled a tin box with the earth, meaning to have it analyzed by "a respectable
chemist," and went into details generally with much energy. Nor had he anything to complain
of in the way of unfair dealing in Mr. Gregory Aglonby, who accompanied him and gave him the
fullest and frankest particulars about the property, which he pointed out was going to rack
and ruin, or rather had gone there. Every broken gate and stony field was dear to his heart,
and it was a melancholy pilgrimage to him; but had not Mr. Aglonby said to him that morning,
"Brother Gregory, the place must go,--there is no help for it,--and this gentleman seems likely
to become a purchaser. Will you see that the disadvantages of the property are set before him
clearly, especially such as a stranger would certainly overlook? I cannot entertain a proposition
of any kind looking to its ultimate purchase until I know that this has been done, anxious
as I am to have this matter definitely concluded. I had thought to die here. But it has been
otherwise ordered by an overruling and all-wise Providence."

It did not escape Sir Robert that he was not likely to be overreached in his bargain, however
much he might repent of it; and when Mr. Gregory pointed across the road and said, "The 'Little
England' farm lies over there, but produces less and less every year. The land is exhausted,"
Sir Robert thought, "The fellow is either quixotic or doesn't wish to sell. I rather think
the first: there has certainly been no shuffling and pretending." Aloud he said, "The soil
can't be exhausted. It is virgin still compared to that of England, and all that it needs is
careful cultivation. It seems to me that what Virginia needs is immigration."

Mr. Gregory looked displeased. It was as though Sir Robert had criticised Anne Buller's dress.
"On the contrary, we wish to keep Virginia for Virginians," he said slowly. "We have no desire
to see it overrun by a horde of Irish and Dutch, and heaven knows what besides. The proper
place for that kind of people is the West and Northwest. If we could get the right class of
English emigrants, that would be another matter. But it is scarcely likely that they will come
here in any considerable number, now that the poor old commonwealth offers so little remunerative
return to the most honorable enterprise."

When Sir Robert had quite made up his mind that he would like to possess the place, he telegraphed
imperatively for Mr. Heathcote, who joined him most reluctantly. Together they walked all over
the county, saw a great many people, and, having bought two hundred acres that marched with,
and, indeed, had formerly been a part of, the Aglonby estate, Sir Robert made a liberal offer
for Heart's Content, expressed his thanks for the kind and honorable treatment he had received
there, and, his terms being accepted, paid the purchase-money, and begged that the family would
suit their own convenience entirely in giving it up. This settled, he went his way to the Natural
Bridge, which he considered should rank second only to Niagara in this country in point of
interest, and then went on to Lexington, to visit General Lee's tomb, and from there to see
Stonewall Jackson's grave, which, to his intense astonishment and indignation, he found half
covered with visiting-cards,--the exquisite tribute of the sentimental tourist to the stern
soldier. He could do nothing until he had cleared the last bit of pasteboard (with "Miss Mollie
Bangs, Jonesville," printed on it) away from the mound. This he did energetically with his
umbrella, after which he sat down quietly to think of his favorite hero, who seemed to be "resting
under the shade of the trees over the river" rather than there, and fell to repeating "Stonewall
Jackson's Way,"--a very favorite lyric, which he knew by heart. "'Appealing from his native
sod In forma pauperis to God,' ought to be his epitaph. I think he would like that," he said.
"I am glad England can claim such a son, however indirectly. Fancy 'Miss Mollie Bangs' leaving
a card--and such a card--on old Blue-Light! A decent one might do for Beau Brummel's grave,
but Jackson's--!"

Mr. Heathcote was with him, and, after one careless glance, had strolled up and down, absorbed
in his own thoughts, which were not of war or death. He only half listened to his uncle's praise
of the great soldier, and presently said, à propos of nothing that had happened that day, "Uncle,
what would you say if I should ask you to let me live at 'Heart's Content'?"

"Eh? What's that?" asked Sir Robert, forgetting in his surprise to blow out the lighted match
he had just applied to the offending cards. "You live in America? What idea have you got in
your head, my boy?"

Mr. Heathcote could not tell his uncle that Edith had said that she would never marry an Englishman,
never! but that if she ever did, she should insist upon his living in America, for to go away
from mamma and papa and the boys and everybody she cared for was a thing she could not and
would not do, not if she adored the man that demanded such a sacrifice of her. What he did
say was that he was tired of his aimless life in London, and liked his uncle too well to look
forward with any pleasure to succeeding him, and that he should like to have a small property
to manage without aid of bailiff, steward, agent, or factotum of any kind. "I could go over
whenever I liked, or you needed me, and you could come to me to see that I wasn't making ducks
and drakes of the property," he said. "And it is an experiment, I grant; but you have always
been awfully generous and kind to me, and I have something laid by that would cover the possible
losses my inexperience might cause, for the first year at least. I am sure I can learn the
trade, and am willing to pay for my apprenticeship, if you will only let me try my hand at
farming."

"The boy is thinking of marrying," was Sir Robert's mental comment; but he only said that he
had bought the place with a very different idea, but that he would think the matter over.

"You must remember that it will not be child's play," he said. "And if you should grow attached
to it and wish to stay, you will be practically giving up your own country, you know. But America
is hardly a foreign country. It is the representative institutions, moral ideas, social atmosphere,
and mental habits that make a people, not the mere physical features of the country, and in
character the Americans are, as Mr. Aglonby would say, 'Englishmen once removed'--across the
Atlantic. You might be quite happy and content among them. Just so."

"Oh, yes, I am sure I shall. You are quite in the right in what you say of them," Mr. Heathcote
eagerly replied.

And Sir Robert, who had purposely laid this trap for him, thought to himself, "The boy is certainly
in love. I must find out all about it, unless he has the grace to tell me himself."

Much as she liked Niagara, Miss Noel was not sorry, after long delay, to get a letter from
Sir Robert, asking her to join him in Chicago, and telling her of a delightful visit he had
made to Richmond, where he had been received "with particular kindness" and had met a great
number of agreeable people, most of them Virginians of the modern type and scarcely so interesting,
in a way, as the Aglonby family, who, as he saw from other individuals, were survivals of a
generation rapidly disappearing, to be found only occasionally here and there now,--"a class
of aristocrats long a curious anomaly in a republican state, hardly to be matched in Europe
to-day outside of Austria, and never to be reproduced."

It did not take Parsons long to do the necessary packing; but Miss Noel consumed a whole day
in putting up her carefully-labelled "specimens of the flora of New York;" and Ethel had to
settle with Mr. Bates, who would doubtless rather have been rejected by an English-woman than
accepted by any American, and was not denied that luxury.

From Chicago the reunited forces went off almost immediately to Salt Lake City, having only
three days to give to a little hurried sight-seeing in the "marvellous Sphinx city," as they
called it in their letters home.

At Salt Lake Mrs. Sykes was awaiting their arrival, and betrayed a radiant satisfaction at
the first glance.

"You can't think how busy I have been and what a lot I have accomplished," she related exultantly.
"I have found a whole village of Thompsons with a p, and went and boarded there, and have got
up a book that Bentley will give me a hundred pounds for. And I have done a lot of sketches
to illustrate it, and, so far from being out of pocket, shall have made by my American tour.
It has been the greatest fun imaginable, poking about in their houses and dishing them up afterward.
And, only fency, I've got a lock of Brigham Young's hair, well authenticated. I palmed myself
off on a person that I met as being a very great admirer of his, and she gave me it. When I
get home I'm going to have a ring made of it, like the one Lady Bottsford has got made of King
John of Abyssinia's wool, which has been so talked of. People have taken to noticing my rings
very much ever since I had that tooth of darling Bobo's polished and mounted in brilliants;
and this will be unique,--there will not be another like it in all England. I told the person
of whom I got it what I meant to do with it, and she said that I must revere him deeply; and,
do you know, I quite forgot my part that I was playing, and said that I didn't care a fig for
the old sinner, but that it was a great curiosity. And she was so engry, quite fiawrious, and
wanted it back; but of course she didn't get it. When do we leave this?"

They left as soon as Sir Robert had satisfied himself on certain points, and Miss Noel bad
been sufficiently shocked by a service in the Tabernacle, and Mr. Heathcote had indulged in
a bath in the lake, which he persisted in taking, and in the course of which he went through
any number of antics in addition to his usual feats, in themselves remarkable, for he was a
vigorous and powerful swimmer. The ex-Devonshire Elder (whom Mrs. Sykes had seen more than
once slinking about the streets, she said, but who had not come near her) was pleased to be
very polite to Sir Robert, or would have been if he had been allowed; but, not wishing to conduct
a Salt Lake campaign à la Sykes, Sir Robert was content to see the place in his own way, got
a phial of water from the lake, which Miss Noel said reminded her of Sodom and Gomorrah and
was "very suited to the odious place," looked at and into such things as could be seen in a
short stay, and made temperate, careful records of the same in his note-book.

The next point of interest to the party was "'Frisco and the Yosemite," toward which they pushed
as fast as steam could take them, Sir Robert and Miss Noel being vividly interested in many
things en route, Ethel and Mr. Heathcote pleased by a few, Mrs. Sykes grumbling ceaselessly
about the length, monotony, bareness, aridity, stupidity, and general hideousness of the journey.
The only thing that really amused her was a quarrel that she got up with a lady who sat near
her. The acquaintance promised to be friendly enough for a while, for the lady was an amiable
soul,--the wife of "a dry-goods merchant in Topeka," she told Mrs. Sykes. The latter was pleased
to ask her a great many questions and to patronize her quite extensively in default of other
amusement, so that all went well at first. But the second stage of Mrs. Sykes's friendship
was not apt to be so pleasant as the first, and accordingly she much astonished her neighbor
one morning by saying to her curtly, "Why don't you speak English?"

"Why, I do. I talk it all the time, don't I?" replied the lady.

"No, you don't. Just look here. I have made a list of the things you say. They are not English
at all. I don't know what you mean, often."

"Do you mean to say that you never heard anybody talk like me?" asked the lady indignantly,
as she fumbled in her bag for her glasses.

"Oh, I didn't say that. I've heard some of the words among our lodging-house-keepers; but you
have invented others, and your pronunciation is abominable. You should really mend it, if you
can," replied Mrs. Sykes, with decision.

The list which had been so civilly put in the Topekan lady's hands was a long one, and ran
as follows: "Chawcolate, pawk, hawrid, cawd, squrl, stoopid, winder, lemmy, gimmy, years (for
ears), 'cute, edgercation, conchienchous," etc., etc.

The fingers that held it trembled with rage long before it was finished, for the Topekan lady
had wealth and social aspiration, if not "edgercation;" and when Mrs. Sykes broke in with,
"Well, what do you say to that?" she had a good deal to say, and said it very forcibly, in
such English as she could command, after which she swelled in speechless anger opposite for
the remainder of their journey.

"There it is again. If I say the least thing to these Americans they fly out like that," complained
Mrs. Sykes to Miss Noel.

But for sheer ill humor nothing could have surpassed her conduct when they had "done" San Francisco,
which she declared to be "a dull, dirty, windy place, with a harbor of which entirely too much
is made,--ridiculously over-praised, in fact," and got under way for the Yosemite. The roads,
the rough vehicle, the country, could not be sufficiently abused. However, when the spot was
reached, she relented, as she had done at Niagara, and, looking up at the giant trees, graciously
conceded that they also were "quite up to the mark."

It was a pleasant spectacle to see Sir Roberts enthusiasm. Such gazing and neck-craning and
measuring and speculating! Such critical inspection of bark, leaves, soil, lichens! Such questioning
of the guides! Such keen delight, wonder, remeasuring, recraning, theories, calculations, endless
contemplation! The enjoyment of the others was as nothing, compared to his,--for if there was
a thing that he loved it was a fine tree, and had he not some of the best timber in England,
which he knew as some generals have known their soldiers and some shepherds their sheep? "Stupendous!
Prodigious! Wonderful!" burst from his lips as he walked slowly around them and rode between
them as in a dream, perfectly entranced. He could scarcely be dragged away, and at last was
only moved by the thought that there was so much that he "must positively see" in the surrounding
country which was waiting to be considered volcanically, botanically, geologically, and otherwise.
It was one of his vexations that nature, art, science, history, commerce, were so long, and
time and a voraciously intelligent but mortal and limited baronet so fleeting. He would have
liked to spend several months on the Pacific coast, looking into a thousand things with unflagging
zeal and interest. It was really afflicting to turn his back upon the early Spanish settlers,
the Jesuit missions, the grape and olive production, mining interests, earthquake statistics,
the Chinese problem, annual rainfall on the great plateau, study of the Sierra Nevada range,
and last, most alluring of all, that of the Santa Barbara Islands, described by a companion
of Drake as densely populated by a white race with light hair and ruddy cheeks. When Sir Robert
thought of that people and of all the bliss of investigation, he almost decided to make a winter
of it in California and solve that mystery or perish. But he had still much to accomplish,
and he had fixed the day for sailing before leaving England. So back the party came to St.
Louis, where they found a mountain of mail-matter from the four quarters of the globe. There
were five voluminous epistles from Mrs. Vane to Miss Noel, and others from that household;
a simple domestic chronicle from Mabel, describing her daily round and stating her fears and
anxieties about "Boy," who was getting "sadly wilful and unruly," and, like a youthful Ajax,
had lately "defied husband;" and one of Mr. Ketchum's characteristic epistles:

     "I send you a letter of introduction to my friend Fry in New
     Orleans (to whom my double-and-twisted), since you will go
     there. He will put you through all right. But I warn you that
     you will be nobody and won't be able to hold up your head there
     at all. No one can after an epidemic, unless he has lost half
     of his relations and had the other half given up by the doctors
     and prepared for burial. This reminds me that Brown's
     scapegrace of a brother has turned up here with a handsome
     Mexican wife and a million, and has deodorized his reputation
     by giving large sums to the yellow-fever sufferers, while I am
     thinking of colonizing all the mothers-in-law of these United
     there before another season opens, unless business improves.
     Fairfield has a Benedicts' Club now, and I chose the motto for
     it, 'Here the women cease from troubling and the wicked are at
     rest:' so when you want a little peace and comfort you will
     know where to come. My wife will have nothing less than her
     love sent you; but I am all the same your friend, J. K."

Having seen a certificate that New Orleans was entirely free from fever, "signed by all the
medical men of eminence in the city," Sir Robert was determined not to be frightened out of
his visit there altogether. But it was only November, and he did not wish to run any foolish
risks, and the ladies were very nervous on this score. He was still undecided what course to
take, when he one day picked up a paper and read an account of the Indian Territory that interested
him beyond measure. In an hour he had got out his maps and time-tables and arranged to "put
in a week" at Tahlequah, the Falls of St. Anthony, and the Mammoth Cave. As none of the party
cared for the first except himself, he went there alone, and felt fully repaid for the effort.
Great was his joy at finding "a purely Indian legislative body" and assisting at their deliberations,
his lorgnon glued now to one chief and now to another. And then to talk to them, to get their
"views," to sketch them, to have a copy of their constitution and laws and a newspaper in their
own tongue and characters in which an affinity to the Egyptian, Arabic, Chinese, or any other
might perhaps be traced! And then how full his letters to his friends in England were of his
"visit to a Choctaw gentleman's plantation,--a most deeply interesting, well-educated man;"
"the first-fruits of the new civilization;" "the opinion of a Seminole person on the Indian
policy of the American government;" "the beauty of a young Chickasaw female" whom he had seen
at one of the schools, and "the extraordinary progress made by some of the other scholars,
showing that there is absolutely no limit to the intellectual development of the once-despised
savage;" "the crystal clearness of the beautiful rivers, the lovely, fertile plains, framed
by the Mozark Mountains, the balmy, delightful climate, and the brutality and wicked greed
of an American of the lower class," who had told him that "the country was a million times
too good for redskins, who ought all to be exterminated, as 'Indians was p'ison wherever found.'"
And then, while the glow of this interest still flushed his mind, he took up the Mississippi
River, which was a career in itself and beckoned him on to fresh conquests. He went up to the
Falls of St. Anthony, which, after Niagara and the Yosemite, was accounted "tame and overrated"
by Mrs. Sykes, but over which he pondered deeply. Before he left there the river had got a
strong hold on his imagination that grew ever greater and greater. He spent all his time on
the boat studying it. He talked to the pilot about it,--or rather made the pilot talk, and
listened with all his ears; he took up the methods now practised for preventing the banks from
caving in and forcing the Great Father to lie in the bed he has made, instead of driving honest
folk out of theirs by scurvy turns and bends that break up thousands of homes. He drew diagrams
of the pile-driving and wattling and willow mattrasses in the diary, with the improvements
he thought advisable, and some very scientific suggestions by which the river could be made
to checkmate itself, like an automaton chess-player. He hung over the guards continually, observing
all that was to be observed, and recorded the same under separate headings, such as "currents,"
"velocity," "flood-rises," with statistics without end showing that the carrying-trade of the
great water highway would amount in 1950 to something so colossal that there is no room for
it here, while a future for the cities that stud its banks was predicted that would satisfy
their most ambitious citizens.

His heart was not in Louisville nor in the Mammoth Cave, though he went over the first religiously
and examined the latter carefully, collected specimens, and even thrilled faintly over an eyeless
fish, which aroused considerable enthusiasm in Mr. Heathcote. He was not really himself until
he was again on the river, doing a little dredging and sounding on his own account. At Cairo
he expanded almost as much as his subject, and for a long while afterward was never weary of
tracing the blue and yellow currents that fuse so reluctantly and imperfectly that out in the
Gulf of Mexico, it is said, one comes upon patches of the Missouri of the most jaundiced, angry
hue.

The sombre majesty of the stream was quite lost upon Mrs. Sykes, who saw in it only "an ugly,
wicked-looking river, with a lot of dirty-white villages along its mud banks." Her attention
was given to the passengers and the clerk,--especially the latter. "A clerk that talks to the
ladies in the cabin about literature and the dramar! Only fency!" she said to Miss Noel. "And
such comical blackies, that the ladies call 'aunty,' and that call me 'honey' and 'child.'
As like as not you'll see a snag coming up through the bottom of the boat presently, and you
had better try one of the life-preservers on and see how it works; though, after all, we may
be blown up instead. Of course we are racing. I am sure of it."

"Dear, dear! How very dreadful! How did you discover that? It should really be made known.
I shall speak to the captain. I really can't consent to being raced with," replied Miss Noel,
who did not make sufficient allowance for Mrs. Sykes's love of the sensational. "Robert must
call a meeting and protest, or something."

She went to look for Sir Robert, whom she found walking about on deck. He had been reading
all the afternoon, and his mind was full of La Salle, and De Soto, and poor Evangeline, so
cruelly near to Gabriel and happiness once, only to drift away from both forever. So large
was his grasp of any subject that the imaginative phases of a situation appealed to him as
powerfully as the practical, and he was not the man to take the Mississippi without its associations,
any more than he would have done the Hudson or the Sierras without Irving and Bret Harte. So
now he was pacing backward and forward under the stars, thinking of these things, and in no
mood for bearding the captain in his cabin; and, having calmed Miss Noel's fears, he stayed
on deck until very late, enjoying his cigar and surroundings.

When they got low enough down to come upon levees and see that the river was actually higher
than the land, the questions of inundation, protection, blue-clay banks, dikes, sluices, crevasses,
water-gates, sediment, currents, swept in upon Sir Robert, and he was still working at them
when they reached New Orleans. Fresh interests and employments now awaited him, in which he
was soon absorbed, head over ears. Like olives, New Orleans has a flavor of its own, so decided
that it is impossible to be indifferent to it: one must either be very fond of it or dislike
it heartily. It was soon evident that Sir Robert belonged to the first class and Mrs. Sykes
to the second. Its brilliant blue skies, and sunshine, and warmth, the lovely flowers, the
good opera and better restaurants, the infectious gayety of the people, as light about the
heart as the heels, with enough Gallic quicksilver in their veins to give them a genius for
being and looking happy, and, lastly, the warmth of his reception, and a hospitality as refined
as limitless, delighted this most amiable of baronets. He had brought good letters, and was
admitted to that inner Creole circle which few strangers see, and in which he found among the
elders, as he said to Miss Noel, "the atmosphere of the Faubourg Saint-Germain,--a dignity
like that of the period to which the Aglonbys belonged, with more grace and savoir-faire. And
such wonderfully pretty girls, my dear Augusta, with eyes like sloes and skins like the petals
of their own magnolia-blossoms. And I observe a sort of patriarchal tribal state of affairs
among them,--grandparents, children, grandchildren, all living together in great numbers and
perfect amity, apparently." Among the Americans of the city Sir Robert found much to interest
him, and he went to visit their "sugar-estates," took down in black and white the astounding
number of oranges that one tree is capable of producing, held conversations with many gentlemen
about the emancipated slaves, and with many emancipated slaves about their late masters and
present condition. And then was there not cotton, the machinery employed on rice-, sugar-,
and cotton-plantations to "go, into"? to say nothing of the swamp-flora, the possible introduction
of olives into Louisiana, and Voodooism to trace back to the Vaudois sorcerers of the fourteenth
century and connect with the serpent-worship of some parts of Italy, where he had himself seen
the peasants make their yearly procession with snakes wrapped about their necks, waists, and
wrists? And was there not, too, serious business to be done? How could he secure and forward
to England a few things that he must have, such as a gar alligator, a pair of mocking-birds,
a Floridian flamingo, a ruby humming-bird, "a Texan horned frog, with a distinctly-developed
tail, crustaceous, probably antediluvian, and credibly reported to live upon air," not to mention
other treasures, and collections previously made, which must be shipped before he left? All
this he finally accomplished, and was so pleased by his success that not even a letter from
his Kalsing "solicitor," saying that his suit against the "Eagle" had been brought to trial
and he had been awarded fifty cents damages, could greatly cloud the content he felt.

Mrs. Sykes, meanwhile, was looking at everything through her own bit of yellow glass or London
fog, and seeing only what her prepossessions would let her see through a medium that distorted
and magnified every object. As the spittoons at the Capitol had seemed to her far bigger and
more striking than the dome, so now the gutters of New Orleans made an immense impression upon
her and affected her most painfully, although the Mississippi failed to impress her at all.
The climate she found odious, the people spoke neither pure French nor good English, and many
a fault besides she found, chiefly with what she politely termed "the Creowls," whom she was
never tired of ridiculing as lazy, ignorant, effeminate, and morbidly conceited. She was not
an ideal companion when they made an expedition into the lovely pastoral Tèche country, the
Acadia of exiled Acadians and Eden of Louisiana, but her lack of enthusiasm did not damp the
ardor of Sir Robert. Miss Noel thought it a beautiful country, but added that it looked "sadly
damp, and as if it might be malarious," and insisted on "dear Ethel's" taking ten grains of
quinine daily during their stay and wearing a potato in her pocket,--precautionary measures
adopted by herself, and known to have nipped jungle-fever in the bud repeatedly in India, so
she said. It seemed to Sir Robert's heated fancy that even Ethel praised this ideal spot but
tepidly, and when she had started out of a revery three times with an "I beg pardon" while
he was reading "Evangeline" to her under the shade of one of those noble oaks "from whose branches
garlands of Spanish moss floated," fit monuments of the sorrowful maiden of ever-green memory,
he put down the book impatiently, saying, "It is only the old that are young nowadays; I am
boring you,"--a speech that made her blush guiltily, since she did not care to explain where
her thoughts had wandered. He was not bored. The bayous were a fascinating novelty to him,
the trees and fields and glades were eloquent to him, the simple French peasants who belong
to the seventeenth century and by some miracle lead its idyllic life in the nineteenth interested
him, and he could see Basil, Gabriel, and Father Félicien at every step.

The next week found them on a steamer bound for Havana and New York, followed by friendly faces
and good claret to the last, leaving three baskets of champagne and about a ton of flowers
out of account. For an account of Havana, Matanzas, Spanish atrocities, Cuban exports, coolie
slavery, and the like topics, the reader is respectfully referred to the book since published
by Sir Robert,--"Eight Months in the United States, Cuba, and Canada,"--a work pronounced in
critical quarters "the best book of travels in America ever published in England" (high praise,
surely), though it attracted less general attention than a very spicy, entertaining volume
by Mrs. Arundel Sykes, called "A Britisher among the Yankees," (to quote from another English
journal) said to contain "a not very flattering picture of the life, society, and institutions
of the Great Republic, which must be a true one, since it is so universally resented by the
American press. People will cry out when they are hit, as every one knows."

On arriving in New York our party went at once to Mr. Brown's, that gentleman being established
there for the winter and having urged them to stay with him. Their idea was to sail for home
almost immediately, as soon as Sir Robert had seen his friend General Bludyer, with whom he
had some business and who was bringing out his two sons to establish them in America. But an
unexpected delay occurred. On the day after their arrival, Mr. Heathcote ran up to his aunt's
room to bid her good-by before taking himself off to Baltimore,--he had made a full confession
to Sir Robert, and received much advice and counsel, together with a qualified approval of
his plans and hopes,--and he found Miss Noel still in bed, although it was mid-day and she
not the least punctual and energetic of her sex. In reply to his playful reproaches she replied
that she was "feeling very, very queer," and he cheerfully assured her that she "had best stop
in bed a day or two and all would be well," after which he told her that he was not going back
to England with the party, and, with a further remark to the effect that she "was looking awfully
seedy," discovered that he was late for his train, was again pleasantly sure that she would
"be all right soon," and hurried off to the station, well pleased to think that he should see
Edith in a few hours. It is not always possible, however, for a woman to fulfil the optimistic
predictions of her careless male relatives, and in a few hours Miss Noel was feeling really
ill. "Who is your doctor, my dear?" she asked of Bijou, who had herself arranged and carried
up a little tray of delicacies with which to tempt her. "How very sweet of you to trouble!
Why did you not let Parsons do that? Do you know I am making myself quite wretched lest I should
be sickening with something,--something serious? I must have a doctor at once. Would you kindly
send for one, or, rather, tell Parsons where to go? I can't rest until I get the opinion of
a medical man."

"Now, don't you worry about that," said Bijou, bestowing an embrace upon her and then perching
herself on the foot of the bed. "You are not going to be ill; and if you are, why, you are
with friends who will take the best sort of care of you, that's all. I'll nurse you; and popper
says I am just a natural-born nurse, if there ever was one. You can see the doctor if you want
to, but most likely you will be a great deal better to-morrow."

"But, my dear, suppose I should be worse? It would be too dreadful! I can't be ill in your
house, you know," said Miss Noel disconsolately.

"Why, why not?" queried Bijou, in surprise.

"Why not? Can you ask why? Think of all the trouble I should be putting you to, the house upset,
and the servants giving warning very likely, and all that. Oh, no! I hope and trust it is nothing;
but if it should be serious I could not dream of putting you out like that," replied Miss Noel,
with emphasis.

