The three associated beverages, cocoa, tea, and coffee are known to the French as aromatic
drinks. Each of these has its characteristic aroma. The fragrance and flavor are so marked
that they cannot be imitated by any artificial products, although numerous attempts have been
made in regard to all three. Hence the detection of adulteration is not a difficult matter.
Designing persons, aware of the extreme difficulty of imitating these substances, have undertaken
to employ lower grades, and, by manipulation, copy, as far as may be, the higher sorts. Every
one knows how readily tea, and coffee, for that matter, will take up odors and flavors from
substances placed near them. This is abundantly exemplified in the country grocery or general
store, where the teas and coffees share in the pervasive fragrance of the cheese and kerosene.
But perhaps it is not so widely understood that some of these very teas and coffees had been
artificially flavored or corrected before they reached their destination in this country.

Cacao lends itself very readily to such preliminary treatment. In a first-class article, the
beans should be of the highest excellence; they should be carefully grown on the plantation
and there prepared with great skill, arriving in the factory in good condition. In the factory
they should simply receive the mechanical treatment requisite to develop their high and attractive
natural flavor and fragrance. They should be most carefully shelled after roasting and finely
ground without concealed additions. This is the process in all honest manufactories of the
cacao products.

Now, as a matter of fact, in the preparation of many of the cacao products on the market, a
wholly different course has been pursued. Beans of poor quality are used, because of their
cheapness, and in some instances they are only imperfectly, if at all, shelled before grinding.
Chemical treatment is relied on to correct in part the odor and taste of such inferior goods,
and artificial flavors, other than the time-honored natural vanilla and the like, are added
freely. The detection of such imposition is easy enough to the expert, but is difficult to
the novice; therefore the public is largely unable to discriminate between the good and the
inferior, and it is perforce compelled to depend almost entirely on the character and reputation
of the manufacturer.

A distinguished London Physician, in giving some hints concerning the proper preparation of
cocoa, says:

"Start with a pure cocoa of undoubted quality and excellence of manufacture, and which bears
the name of a respectable firm. This point is important, for there are many cocoas on the market
which have been doctored by the addition of alkali, starch, malt, kola, hops, etc."

Baker's Breakfast Cocoa is absolutely pure, and, being ground to an extraordinary degree of
fineness, is highly soluble. The analyst of the Massachusetts State Board of Health states
in his recent valuable work on "Food Inspection and Analysis," that the treatment of cocoa
with alkali for the purpose of producing a more perfect emulsion is objectionable, even if
not considered as a form of adulteration. Cocoa thus treated is generally darker in color than
the pure article. The legitimate means, he says, for making it as soluble as possible is to
pulverize it very fine, so that particles remain in even suspension and form a smooth paste.

That is the way the Baker Cocoa is treated. It has received the Grand Prize--the highest award
ever given in this country, and altogether 52 highest awards in Europe and America.

Choice Recipes by Miss Maria Parloa

SPECIALLY PREPARED FOR WALTER BAKER & Co. LTD.

PLAIN CHOCOLATE

For six people, use one quart of milk, two ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate,
one tablespoonful of cornstarch, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of hot
water.

Mix the cornstarch with one gill of the milk. Put the remainder of the milk on to heat in the
double-boiler. When the milk comes to the boiling point, stir in the cornstarch and cook for
ten minutes. Have the chocolate cut in fine bits, and put it in a small iron or granite-ware
pan; add the sugar and water, and place the pan over a hot fire. Stir constantly until the
mixture is smooth and glossy. Add this to the hot milk, and beat the mixture with a whisk until
it is frothy. Or, the chocolate may be poured back and forth from the boiler to a pitcher,
holding high the vessel from which you pour. This will give a thick froth. Serve at once.

If you prefer not to have the chocolate thick, omit the cornstarch. If condensed milk is used,
substitute water for the milk named above and add three tablespoonfuls of condensed milk when
the chocolate is added.

CHOCOLATE, VIENNA STYLE

Use four ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Vanilla Chocolate, one quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls
of hot water, and one tablespoonful of sugar.

Cut the chocolate in fine bits. Put the milk on the stove in the double-boiler, and when it
has been heated to the boiling point, put the chocolate, sugar and water in a small iron or
granite-ware pan, and stir over a hot fire until smooth and glossy. Stir this mixture into
the hot milk, and beat well with a whisk. Serve at once, putting a tablespoonful of whipped
cream in each cup and then filling up with the chocolate.

The plain chocolate may be used instead of the vanilla, but in that case use a teaspoonful
of vanilla extract and three generous tablespoonfuls of sugar instead of one.

BREAKFAST COCOA

Walter Baker & Co.'s Breakfast Cocoa is powdered so fine that it can be dissolved by pouring
boiling water on it. For this reason it is often prepared at the table. A small teaspoonful
of the powder is put in the cup with a teaspoonful of sugar; on this is poured two-thirds of
a cup of boiling water, and milk or cream is added to suit the individual taste. This is very
convenient; but cocoa is not nearly so good when prepared in this manner as when it is boiled.

For six cupfuls of cocoa use two tablespoonfuls of the powder, two tablespoonfuls of sugar,
half a pint of boiling water, and a pint and a half of milk. Put the milk on the stove in the
double-boiler. Put the cocoa and sugar in a saucepan, and gradually pour the hot water upon
them, stirring all the time. Place the saucepan on the fire and stir until the contents boil.
Let this mixture boil for five minutes; then add the boiling milk and serve.

A gill of cream is a great addition to this cocoa.

Scalded milk may be used in place of boiled milk, if preferred. For flavoring, a few grains
of salt and half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract may be added.

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE

Beat half a cupful of butter to a cream, and gradually beat into it one cupful of sugar. When
this is light, beat in half a cupful of milk, a little at a time, and one teaspoonful of vanilla.
Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth. Mix half a teaspoonful of baking powder with
two scant cupfuls of sifted flour. Stir the flour and whites of eggs alternately into the mixture.
Have three deep tin plates well buttered, and spread two-thirds of the batter in two of them.

Into the remaining batter stir one ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, melted,
and spread this batter in the third plate. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven for about twenty
minutes. Put a layer of white cake on a large plate, and spread with white icing. Put the dark
cake on this, and also spread with white icing. On this put the third cake. Spread with chocolate
icing.

TO MAKE THE ICING. Put into a granite-ware saucepan two gills of sugar and one of water, and
boil gently until bubbles begin to come from the bottom--say, about five minutes. Take from
the fire instantly. Do not stir or shake the sugar while it is cooking. Pour the hot syrup
in a thin stream into the whites of two eggs that have been beaten to a stiff froth, beating
the mixture all the time. Continue to beat until the icing is thick. Flavor with one teaspoonful
of vanilla. Use two-thirds of this as a white icing, and to the remaining third add one ounce
of melted chocolate. To melt the chocolate, shave it fine and put in a cup, which is then to
be placed in a pan of boiling water.

CHOCOLATE CAKE

For two sheets of cake, use three ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, three
eggs, one cupful and three-fourths of sifted pastry flour, one cupful and three-fourths of
sugar, half a cupful of butter, half a cupful of milk, half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract,
one teaspoonful and a half of baking powder.

Grate the chocolate. Beat the butter to a cream, and gradually beat in the sugar. Beat in the
milk and vanilla, then the eggs (already well beaten), next the chocolate, and finally the
flour, in which the baking powder should be mixed. Pour into two well buttered shallow cake
pans. Bake for twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Frost or not, as you like.

CHOCOLATE MARBLE CAKE

Put one ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s Chocolate and one tablespoonful of butter in a cup, and
set this in a pan of boiling water. Beat to a cream half a cupful of butter and one cupful
of sugar. Gradually beat in half a cupful of milk. Put about one-third of this mixture into
another bowl, and stir the melted butter and chocolate into it. Drop the white-and-brown mixture
in spoonfuls into a well buttered deep cake pan, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five
minutes; or, the cake can be baked in a sheet and iced with a chocolate or white icing.

CHOCOLATE GLACÉ CAKE

Beat to a cream a generous half cupful of butter, and gradually beat into this one cupful of
sugar. Add one ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, melted; also two unbeaten
eggs. Beat vigorously for five minutes; then stir in half a cupful of milk, and lastly, one
cupful and a half of flour, with which has been mixed one generous teaspoonful of baking powder.
Flavor with one teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into a buttered, shallow cake pan, and bake for
half an hour in a moderate oven. When cool, spread with glacé frosting.

GLACÉ FROSTING. Put half a cupful of sugar and three tablespoonfuls of water in a small saucepan.
Stir over the fire until the sugar is nearly melted. Take the spoon from the pan before the
sugar really begins to boil, because it would spoil the icing if the syrup were stirred after
it begins to boil. After boiling gently for four minutes, add half a teaspoonful of vanilla
extract, but do not stir; then set away to cool. When the syrup is about blood warm, beat it
with a wooden spoon until thick and white. Now put the saucepan in another with boiling water,
and stir until the icing is thin enough to pour. Spread quickly on the cake.

CHOCOLATE GLACÉ

After making a glacé frosting, dissolve one ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate
in a cup, and put it with the frosting, adding also a tablespoonful of boiling water.

CHOCOLATE BISCUIT

Cover three large baking pans with paper that has been well oiled with washed butter. Over
these dredge powdered sugar. Melt in a cup one ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1
Chocolate. Separate the whites and yolks of four eggs. Add to the yolks a generous half cupful
of powdered sugar, and beat until light and firm. Add the melted chocolate, and beat a few
minutes longer. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth. Measure out three-fourths
of a cupful of sifted flour, and stir it and the whites into the yolks. The whites and flour
must be cut in as lightly as possible, and with very little stirring. Drop the mixture in teaspoonfuls
on the buttered paper. Sprinkle powdered sugar over the cakes, and bake in a slow oven for
about fourteen or fifteen minutes. The mixture can be shaped like lady fingers, if preferred.

CHOCOLATE WAFERS

Grate four ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, and mix with it two tablespoonfuls
of flour and one-fourth of a teaspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves and baking powder. Separate
six eggs. Add one cupful of powdered sugar to the yolks, and beat until very light; then add
the grated yellow rind and the juice of half a lemon, and beat five minutes longer. Now add
the dry mixture, and with a spoon lightly cut in the whites, which are first to be beaten to
a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into buttered shallow pans, having it about half an inch thick.
Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. When the cake is cool, spread a thin layer of currant
jelly over one sheet, and place the other sheet on this. Ice with vanilla icing; and when this
hardens, cut in squares. It is particularly nice to serve with ice-cream.

CINDERELLA CAKES

Use two eggs, one cupful of sugar, one cupful and a quarter of flour, one gill of cold water,
one tablespoonful of lemon juice, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one ounce of Walter Baker
& Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, half a tumbler of any kind of jelly, and chocolate icing the
same as for éclairs.

Separate the eggs, and beat the yolks and sugar together until light. Beat the whites until
light, and then beat them with yolks and sugar and grated chocolate. Next beat in the lemon
juice and water, and finally the flour, in which the baking powder should be mixed. Beat for
three minutes, and then pour the batter into two pans, and bake in a moderate oven for about
eighteen minutes. When done, spread one sheet of cake with the jelly, and press the other sheet
over it; and when cold, cut into little squares and triangular pieces. Stick a wooden toothpick
into each of these pieces and dip each one into the hot icing, afterwards removing the toothpick,
of course.

CHOCOLATE ÉCLAIRS

Into a granite-ware saucepan put half a pint of milk, two well-rounded tablespoonfuls of butter,
and one tablespoonful of sugar, and place on the stove. When this boils up, add half a pint
of sifted flour, and cook for two minutes, beating well with a wooden spoon. It will be smooth
and velvety at the end of that time. Set away to cool; and when cool, beat in four eggs, one
at a time. Beat vigorously for about fifteen minutes. Try a small bit of the paste in the oven;
and if it rises in the form of a hollow ball, the paste is beaten enough; whereas, if it does
not, beat a little longer. Have tin sheets or shallow pans slightly buttered. Have ready, also,
a tapering tin tube, with the smaller opening about three-quarters of an inch in diameter.
Place this in the small end of a conical cotton pastry bag. Put the mixture in the bag, and
press out on buttered pans, having each éclair nearly three inches long. There should be eighteen,
and they must be at least two inches apart, as they swell in cooking. Bake in a moderately
hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. Take from the oven, and while they are still warm coat
them with chocolate. When cold, cut open on the side, and fill with either of the following
described preparations:--

FILLING NO. 1.--Mix in a bowl half a pint of rich cream, one teaspoonful of vanilla, and four
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Place the bowl in a pan of ice-water, and beat the cream until light
and firm, using either an egg-beater or a whisk.

FILLING NO. 2.--Put half a pint of milk into a double-boiler, and place on the fire. Beat together
until very light one level tablespoonful of flour, half a cupful of sugar, and one egg. When
the milk boils, stir in this mixture.

ICING FOR ÉCLAIRS.--Put in a small granite-ware pan half a pint of sugar and five tablespoonfuls
of cold water. Stir until the sugar is partially melted, and then place on the stove, stirring
for half a minute. Take out the spoon, and watch the sugar closely. As soon as it boils, take
instantly from the fire and pour upon a meat-platter. Let this stand for eight minutes. Meantime,
shave into a cup one ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, and put it on the
fire in a pan of boiling water. At the end of eight minutes stir the sugar with a wooden spoon
until it begins to grow white and to thicken. Add the melted chocolate quickly, and continue
stirring until the mixture is thick. Put it in a small saucepan, and place on the fire in another
pan of hot water. Stir until so soft that it will pour freely. Stick a skewer into the side
of an éclair, and dip the top in the hot chocolate. Place on a plate, and continue until all
the éclairs are "glacéd." They will dry quickly. Do not stir the sugar after the first half
minute, and do not scrape the sugar from the saucepan into the platter. All the directions
must be strictly followed.

CHOCOLATE COOKIES

Beat to a cream half a cupful of butter and one tablespoonful of lard. Gradually beat into
this one cupful of sugar; then add one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of
cinnamon, and two ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, melted. Now add one
well-beaten egg, and half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of milk. Stir
in about two cupfuls and a half of flour. Roll thin, and, cutting in round cakes, bake in a
rather quick oven. The secret of making good cookies is the use of as little flour as will
suffice. Dissolve one teaspoonful of soda in a teaspoonful of cold water; add this and two
tablespoonfuls of melted butter to the mixture. Now stir in two cupfuls of sifted flour, and
finally add two ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Chocolate and one tablespoonful of butter, melted
together. Pour the mixture into three well-buttered, deep tin plates, and bake in a moderately
hot oven for about twenty minutes.

VANILLA ICING

Break the white of one large egg into a bowl, and gradually beat into it one cupful of confectioners'
sugar. Beat for three minutes, add half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract, and spread thinly
on the cakes.

CHOCOLATE ICING

Make a vanilla icing, and add one tablespoonful of cold water to it. Scrape fine one ounce
of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, and put it in a small iron or granite-ware
saucepan, with two tablespoonfuls of confectioners' sugar and one tablespoonful of hot water.
Stir over a hot fire until smooth and glossy, then add another tablespoonful of hot water.
Stir the dissolved chocolate into the vanilla icing. Make a paste the same as for éclairs,
save that instead of one tablespoonful of sugar three must be used.

As soon as the paste is cooked, beat in the melted chocolate. When cold, add the eggs, and
beat until light. Drop this batter on lightly buttered pans in round cakes, having about a
dessertspoonful in each cake. Bake for about twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. Serve
either hot or cold, with whipped cream prepared the same as for Filling No. 1 for éclairs.
Heap the cream in the center of a flat dish, and arrange the profiteroles around it.

CHOCOLATE ICE-CREAM

For about two quarts and a half of cream use a pint and a half of milk, a quart of thin cream,
two cupfuls of sugar, two ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate, two eggs,
and two heaping tablespoonfuls of flour.

Put the milk on to boil in a double-boiler. Put the flour and one cupful of the sugar in a
bowl; add the eggs, and beat the mixture until light. Stir this into the boiling milk, and
cook for twenty minutes, stirring often.

Scrape the chocolate, and put it in a small saucepan.

When the preparation has cooked for twenty minutes, take it from the fire and add the remainder
of the sugar and the cream, which should be gradually beaten into the hot mixture. Set away
to cool, and when cold, freeze.

CHOCOLATE CREAM PIES

Beat to a cream half a cupful of butter and a cupful and a quarter of powdered sugar. Add two
well-beaten eggs, two tablespoonfuls of wine, half a cupful of milk, and a cupful and a half
of sifted flour, with which has been mixed a teaspoonful and a half of baking powder. Bake
this in four well-buttered, deep, tin plates for about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven.

Put half a pint of milk in the double-boiler, and on the fire. Beat together the yolks of two
eggs, three tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, and a level tablespoonful of flour. Stir this
mixture into the boiling milk, beating well. Add one-sixth of a teaspoonful of salt, and cook
for fifteen minutes, stirring often. When cooked, flavor with half a teaspoonful of vanilla
extract. Put two of the cakes on two large plates, spread the cream over them, and lay the
other two cakes on top. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, and then beat into
them one cupful of powdered sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Stir over a hot fire until
smooth and glossy. Now add three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, and stir into the beaten
egg and sugar. Spread on the pies and set away for a few hours.

CHOCOLATE MOUSSE

Put a three-quart mould in a wooden pail, first lining the bottom with fine ice and a thin
layer of coarse salt. Pack the space between the mould and the pail solidly with fine ice and
coarse salt, using two quarts of salt and ice enough to fill the space. Whip one quart of cream,
and drain it in a sieve. Whip again all the cream that drains through. Add three tablespoonfuls
of cream. Sprinkle a cupful of powdered sugar over the whipped cream. Pour the chocolate in
a thin stream into the cream, and stir gently until well mixed. Wipe out the chilled mould,
and turn the cream into it. Cover, and then place a little ice lightly on top. Wet a piece
of carpet in water, and cover the top of the pail. Set away for three or four hours; then take
the mould from the ice, dip it in cold water, wipe, and then turn the mousse out on a flat dish.

CHOCOLATE CHARLOTTE

Soak a quarter of a package of gelatine in one-third of a cupful of cold water for two hours.
Whip one pint of cream to a froth, and put it in a bowl, which should be placed in a pan of
ice-water. Add to this a gill of hot milk and the soaked gelatine, and stir until the gelatine
is dissolved. Sprinkle a generous half cupful of powdered sugar over the cream. Now add the
chocolate and gelatine mixture, and stir gently until it begins to thicken. Line a quart charlotte-mould
with lady fingers, and when the cream is so thick that it will just pour, turn it gently into
the mould. Place the charlotte in a cold place for an hour or more, and, at serving time, turn
out on a flat dish.

CHOCOLATE BAVARIAN CREAM

For one large mould of cream, use half a package of gelatine, one gill of milk, two quarts
of whipped cream, one gill of sugar, and two and a half ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Chocolate.

Soak the gelatine in cold water for two hours. Whip and drain the cream, scrape the chocolate,
and put the milk on to boil. Put the chocolate, two tablespoonfuls of sugar and one of hot
water in a small saucepan, and stir on a hot fire until smooth and glossy. Stir this into the
hot milk. Now add the soaked gelatine and the remainder of the sugar. Strain this mixture into
a basin that will hold two quarts or more. Place the basin in a pan of ice-water, and stir
until cold, when it will begin to thicken. Instantly begin to stir in the whipped cream, adding
half the amount at first. When all the cream has been added, dip the mould in cold water and
turn the cream into it. Place in the ice-chest for an hour or more.

At serving-time dip the mould in tepid water. See that the cream will come from the sides of
the mould, and turn out on a flat dish. Serve with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE CREAM

Soak a box of gelatine in half a pint of cold water for two hours. Put one quart of milk in
the double-boiler, and place on the fire. Beat the yolks of five eggs with half a cupful of
sugar. Add to the gelatine, and stir the mixture into the hot milk. Cook three minutes longer,
stirring all the while. On taking from the fire, add two teaspoonfuls of vanilla and half a
saltspoonful of salt. Strain, and pour into moulds that have been rinsed in cold water. Set
away to harden, and serve with sugar and cream.

CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE

Put one quart of milk in the double-boiler, and place on the fire. Sprinkle into it one level
tablespoonful of sea-moss farina. Cover, and cook until the mixture looks white, stirring frequently.
It will take about twenty minutes. Add a saltspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful of vanilla.
Strain, and turn into a mould that has been rinsed in cold water. Set the mould in a cold place,
and do not disturb it until the blanc-mange is cold and firm. Serve with sugar and cream.

CHOCOLATE CREAM RENVERSEE

Use one quart of milk, seven eggs, half a pint of sugar, one ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s
Premium No. 1 Chocolate, half a teaspoonful of salt. Put the milk on the fire in the double-boiler.

Put three tablespoonfuls of sugar into a charlotte-mould that will hold a little more than
a quart, and place on the stove. When the sugar melts and begins to smoke, move the mould round
and round, to coat it with the burnt sugar, then place on the table. Beat together the remainder
of the sugar, the eggs, and the salt. Add the cold milk and chocolate to the mixture, and after
straining into the charlotte-mould, place in a deep pan, with enough tepid water to come nearly
to the top of the mould. Bake in a moderate oven until firm in the center. Test the cream by
running a knife through the center. If firm and smooth, it is done. It will take forty or forty-five
minutes to cook. When icy-cold, turn on a flat dish. Serve with whipped cream that has been
flavored with sugar and vanilla.

BAKED CHOCOLATE CUSTARD

For five small custards use one pint of milk, two eggs, one ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium
No. 1 Chocolate, one-fourth of a teaspoonful of salt, and a piece of stick cinnamon about an
inch long.

Put the cinnamon and milk in the double-boiler, place on the fire and cook for ten minutes.

Beat together with a spoon the eggs, salt and two tablespoonfuls of the sugar. Add the cooled
milk and strain. Pour the mixture into the cups, which place in a deep pan. Pour into the pan
enough tepid water to come nearly to the top of the cups. Bake in a moderate oven until firm
in the center. It will take about half an hour. Test by running a knife through the center.
If the custard is milky, it is not done. Serve very cold.

CHOCOLATE SOUFFLÉ

Half a pint of milk, two ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Chocolate, three tablespoonfuls of
sugar, one rounding tablespoonful of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, four eggs.

Put the milk in the double-boiler, and place on the fire. Beat the butter to a soft cream,
and beat the flour into it. Gradually pour the hot milk on this, stirring all the time. Return
to the fire and cook for six minutes. Put the shaved chocolate, sugar, and two tablespoonfuls
of water in a small pan over a hot fire, and stir until smooth and glossy. Stir this into the
mixture in the double-boiler. Take from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs, well beaten;
then set away to cool. When cool add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour
the batter into a well-buttered earthen dish that will hold about a quart, and cook in a moderate
oven for twenty-two minutes. Serve immediately with vanilla cream sauce.

CHOCOLATE PUDDING

Reserve one gill of milk from a quart, and put the remainder on the fire in a double-boiler.
Mix three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch with the cold milk. Beat two eggs with half a cupful
of powdered sugar and half a teaspoonful of salt. Add this to the cornstarch and milk, and
stir into the boiling milk, beating well for a minute. Cook the pudding in all ten minutes,
counting from the time the eggs and cornstarch are added. Serve cold with powdered sugar and
cream. This pudding can be poured while hot into little cups which have been rinsed in cold
water. At serving time turn out on a flat dish, making a circle, and fill the center of the
dish with whipped cream flavored with sugar and vanilla.

The eggs may be omitted, in which case use one more tablespoonful of cornstarch.

CHOCOLATE MERINGUE PUDDING

For a small pudding use one pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls and a half of cornstarch, one
ounce of Walter Baker & Co.'s Chocolate, two eggs, five tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, one-fourth
of a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract.

Mix the cornstarch with one gill of the milk. Put the remainder of the milk on to boil in the
double-boiler. Scrape the chocolate. When the milk boils, add the cornstarch, salt, and chocolate,
and cook for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of the eggs with three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Pour
the hot mixture on this, and beat well. Turn into a pudding-dish that will hold about a quart,
and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven.

Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff, dry froth, and gradually beat in the remaining two
tablespoonfuls of sugar and the vanilla. Spread this on the pudding, and return to the oven.
Cook for fifteen minutes longer, but with the oven-door open. Serve either cold or hot.

MILTON PUDDING

Use one pint of stale bread broken in crumbs, one quart of milk, two eggs, half a teaspoonful
of salt, half a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon, three tablespoonfuls of sugar and two ounces
of Walter Baker & Co.'s Chocolate, grated. Put the bread, milk, cinnamon, and chocolate in
a bowl, and soak for two or three hours. Beat together the eggs, sugar, and salt. Mash the
soaked bread with a spoon, and add the egg mixture to the bread and milk. Pour into a pudding-dish,
and bake in a slow oven for about forty minutes. Serve with an egg sauce or a vanilla cream sauce.

EGG SAUCE.--Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff, dry froth; and beat into this, a little
at a time, one cupful of powdered sugar. When smooth and light, add one teaspoonful of vanilla
and the yolks of two eggs. Beat the mixture a little longer; then stir in one cupful of whipped
cream or three tablespoonfuls of milk. Serve at once.

VANILLA CREAM SAUCE.--Beat to a cream three tablespoonfuls of butter, and gradually beat into
this two-thirds of a cupful of powdered sugar. When this is light and creamy, add a teaspoonful
of vanilla; then gradually beat in two cupfuls of whipped cream. Place the bowl in a pan of
boiling water, and stir constantly for three minutes. Pour the sauce into a warm bowl, and serve.

SNOW PUDDING

Put a pint of milk in the double-boiler and on the fire. Mix three tablespoonfuls of cornstarch
with a gill of milk and one-third of a teaspoonful of salt. Stir this into the milk when it
boils. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and then gradually beat into them half
a cupful of powdered sugar and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Add this to the cooking mixture,
and beat vigorously for one minute. Rinse a mould in cold water, and pouring the pudding into
it, set away to cool. At serving-time turn out on a flat dish, and serve with chocolate sauce.

CHOCOLATE SAUCE

Put one pint of milk in the double-boiler, and on the fire. Shave two ounces of Walter Baker
and Co.'s Chocolate, and put it in a small pan with four tablespoonfuls of sugar and two of
boiling water. Stir over the fire until smooth and glossy, and add to the hot milk. Beat together
for eight minutes the yolks of four eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a saltspoonful
of salt, and then add one gill of cold milk.

Pour the boiling milk on this, stirring well. Return to the double-boiler, and cook for five
minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a cold bowl and set the bowl in cold water. Stir
for a few minutes, and then occasionally until the sauce is cold.

This sauce is nice for cold or hot cornstarch pudding, bread pudding, cold cabinet pudding,
snow pudding, etc. It will also answer for a dessert. Fill custard glasses with it, and serve
the same as soft custard; or have the glasses two-thirds full, and heap up with whipped cream.

CHOCOLATE CANDY

One cupful of molasses, two cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of milk, one-half pound of chocolate,
a piece of butter half the size of an egg. Boil the milk and molasses together, scrape the
chocolate fine, and mix with just enough of the boiling milk and molasses to moisten; rub it
perfectly smooth, then, with the sugar, stir into the boiling liquid; add the butter, and boil
twenty minutes. Try as molasses candy, and if it hardens, pour into a buttered dish. Cut the
same as nut candy.

CREAM CHOCOLATE CARAMELS

Mix together in a granite-ware saucepan half a pint of sugar, half a pint of molasses, half
a pint of thick cream, one generous tablespoonful of butter, and four ounces of Walter Baker
& Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate. Place on the fire and stir until the mixture boils. Cook until
a few drops of it will harden if dropped into ice-water; then pour into well-buttered pans,
having the mixture about three-fourths of an inch deep. When nearly cold, mark into squares.
It will take almost an hour to boil this in a granite-ware pan, but not half so long if cooked
in an iron frying-pan. Stir frequently while boiling. The caramels must be put in a very cold
place to harden. When nearly cold, mark it off in squares, and put in a cold place to harden.
These caramels are sugary and brittle, and can be made in the hottest weather without trouble.
If a deep granite-ware saucepan be used for the boiling, it will take nearly an hour to cook
the mixture; but if with an iron frying-pan, twenty or thirty minutes will suffice.

CHOCOLATE CREAMS, No. 1

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth. Gradually beat into this two cupfuls of confectioners'
sugar. If the eggs be large, it may take a little more sugar. Flavor with half a teaspoonful
of vanilla, and work well. Now roll into little balls, and drop on a slightly buttered platter.
Let the balls stand for an hour or more. Shave five ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium
No. 1 Chocolate and put into a small bowl, which place on the fire in a saucepan containing
boiling water. When the chocolate is melted, take the saucepan to the table, and drop the creams
into the chocolate one at a time, taking them out with a fork and dropping them gently on the
buttered dish. It will take half an hour or more to harden the chocolate.

CHOCOLATE CREAMS, No. 2

For these creams you should make a fondant in this way: put into a granite-ware saucepan one
cupful of water and two of granulated sugar--or a pound of loaf sugar. Stir until the sugar
is nearly melted, then place on the fire and heat slowly, but do not stir the mixture. Watch
carefully and note when it begins to boil. When the sugar has been boiling for ten minutes,
take up a little of it and drop in ice-water. If it hardens enough to form a soft ball when
rolled between the thumb and finger, it is cooked enough. Take the saucepan from the fire instantly,
and set in a cool, dry place. When the syrup is so cool that the finger can be held in it comfortably,
pour it into a bowl, and stir with a wooden spoon until it becomes thick and white. When it
begins to look dry, and a little hard, take out the spoon, and work with the hand until the
cream is soft and smooth. Flavor with a few drops of vanilla, and, after shaping, cover with
chocolate, as directed in the preceding recipe.

Caution.--Do not stir the syrup while it is cooking, and be careful not to jar or shake the
saucepan.

CHOCOLATE CONES

Boil the sugar as directed for fondant in the recipe for Chocolate Creams, No. 2, but not quite
so long--say about eleven minutes. The syrup, when tested, should be too soft to ball. When
cold, pour into a bowl, and beat until thick and creamy. If properly boiled, it will not become
thick enough to work with the hands.

Have six ounces of Walter Baker & Co.'s Premium No. 1 Chocolate melted in a bowl. Pour half
of the creamed sugar into another bowl, and, after flavoring with a few drops of vanilla, add
to it about one-third of the dissolved chocolate. Stir until thick and rather dry; then make
into small cones, and drop on a slightly buttered platter. Put half of the remaining creamed
sugar in a cup, and set in a saucepan containing boiling water. Flavor with vanilla, and stir
over the fire until melted so much that it will pour from the spoon. Take the saucepan to the
table and dip one-half the cones in, one at a time, just as the Chocolate Creams, No. 1, were
dipped in the melted chocolate. If liked, a second coating may be given the cones. Now put
the remainder of the creamed sugar on to melt, and add two tablespoonfuls of hot water to it.
Stir the remainder of the melted chocolate into this, and if too thick to dip the candy in,
add hot water, a few drops at a time, until the mixture is of the right consistency; then dip
the rest of the cones in this.

GENESEE BON-BONS

Make the cream chocolate caramels, and get them quite firm by placing the pan on ice. Make
the chocolate coating as directed for chocolate cones. Dip the caramels in this and put on
a buttered dish.

CHOCOLATE SYRUP

Into a granite-ware saucepan put one ounce--three tablespoonfuls--of Walter Baker & Co.'s Soluble
Chocolate, and gradually pour on it half a pint of boiling water, stirring all the time. Place
on the fire, and stir until all the chocolate is dissolved. Now add one pint of granulated
sugar, and stir until it begins to boil. Cook for three minutes longer, then strain and cool.
When cool, add one tablespoonful of vanilla extract. Bottle, and keep in a cold place.

REFRESHING DRINKS FOR SUMMER

Put into a tumbler about two tablespoonfuls of broken ice, two tablespoonfuls of chocolate
syrup, three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, one gill of milk, and half a gill of soda-water
from a syphon bottle, or Apollinaris water. Stir well before drinking. A tablespoonful of vanilla
ice-cream is a desirable addition. It is a delicious drink, even if the soda or Apollinaris
water and ice-cream be omitted. A plainer drink is made by combining the syrup, a gill and
a half of milk, and the ice, shaking well.

A FEW SUGGESTIONS IN REGARD TO CHOCOLATE

The best flavor to add to chocolate is vanilla; next to that, cinnamon. Beyond these two things
one should use great caution, as it is very easy to spoil the fine natural flavor of the bean.
Chocolate absorbs odors readily; therefore it should be kept in a pure, sweet atmosphere. As
about eleven per cent. of the chocolate bean is starch, chocolate and cocoa are of a much finer
flavor if boiled for a few minutes. Long boiling, however, ruins their flavor and texture.

Recipes Specially Prepared by Miss Elizabeth Kevill Burr

(All measurements should be level.)

FORMULA FOR MAKING THREE GALLONS OF BREAKFAST COCOA

    1/2 a pound of Walter Baker & Co.'s Cocoa,
    1-1/2 gallons of water, hot,
    1-1/2 gallons of milk, hot.

