Transcriber's note: This file was proofed, using a text-to-speech reader,
                    against the hard copy 2nd. edition published in 1819.
                    No attempt has been made to change the text of any of
                    the quoted verse to reflect later editors' amendments.
                    Italics are indicated thus.  The footnotes are
                    serially numbered from the first to the last Lecture,
                    unlike in the original.

LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH POETS

Delivered at the Surrey Institution

by

WILLIAM HAZLITT

CONTENTS.

   LECTURE I.
   INTRODUCTORY.--ON POETRY IN GENERAL.

   LECTURE II.
   ON CHAUCER AND SPENSER.

   LECTURE III.
   ON SHAKSPEARE AND MILTON.

   LECTURE IV.
   ON DRYDEN AND POPE.

   LECTURE V.
   ON THOMSON AND COWPER.

   LECTURE VI.
   ON SWIFT, YOUNG, GRAY, COLLINS &c.

   LECTURE VII.
   ON BURNS, AND THE OLD ENGLISH BALLADS.

   LECTURE VIII.
   ON THE LIVING POETS.  P.
50.

LECTURE II. ON CHAUCER AND SPENSER.

Having, in the former Lecture, given some account of the nature of poetry in general, I shall
proceed, in the next place, to a more particular consideration of the genius and history of
English poetry.  I shall take, as the subject of the present lecture, Chaucer and Spenser,
two out of four of the greatest names in poetry, which this country has to boast.  Both of
them, however, were much indebted to the early poets of Italy, and may be considered as belonging,
in a certain degree, to the same school.  The freedom and copiousness with which our most original
writers, in former periods, availed themselves of the productions of their predecessors, frequently
transcribing whole passages, without scruple or acknowledgment, may appear contrary to the
etiquette of modern literature, when the whole stock of poetical common-places has become public
property, and no one is compelled to trade upon any particular author.  But it is not so much
a subject of wonder, at a time when to read and write was of itself an honorary distinction,
when learning was almost as great a rarity as genius, and when in fact those who first transplanted
the beauties of other languages into their own, might be considered as public benefactors,
and the founders of a national literature.--There are poets older than Chaucer, and in the
interval between him and Spenser; but their genius was not such as to place them in any point
of comparison with either of these celebrated men; and an inquiry into their particular merits
or defects might seem rather to belong to the province of the antiquary, than be thought generally
interesting to the lovers of poetry in the present day.

Chaucer (who has been very properly considered as the father of English poetry) preceded Spenser
by two centuries.  He is supposed to have been born in London, in the year 1328, during the
reign of Edward III.  and to have died in 1400, at the age of seventy-two.  He received a learned
education at one, or at both of the universities, and travelled early into Italy, where he
became thoroughly imbued with the spirit and excellences of the great Italian poets and prose-writers,
Dante, Petrarch, and Boccace; and is said to have had a personal interview with one of these,
Petrarch.  He was connected, by marriage, with the famous John of Gaunt, through whose interest
he was introduced into several public employments.  Chaucer was an active partisan, a religious
reformer, and from the share he took in some disturbances, on one occasion, he was obliged
to fly the country.  On his return, he was imprisoned, and made his peace with government,
as it is said, by a discovery of his associates.  Fortitude does not appear, at any time, to
have been the distinguishing virtue of poets.--There is, however, an obvious similarity between
the practical turn of Chaucer's mind and restless impatience of his character, and the tone
of his writings.  Yet it would be too much to attribute the one to the other as cause and effect:
for Spenser, whose poetical temperament was an effeminate as Chaucer's was stern and masculine,
was equally engaged in public affairs, and had mixed equally in the great world.  So much does
native disposition predominate over accidental circumstances, moulding them to its previous
bent and purposes! For while Chaucer's intercourse with the busy world, and collision with
the actual passions and conflicting interests of others, seemed to brace the sinews of his
understanding, and gave to his writings the air of a man who describes persons and things that
he had known and been intimately concerned in; the same opportunities, operating on a differently
constituted frame, only served to alienate Spenser's mind the more from the "close-pent up"
scenes of ordinary life, and to make him "rive their concealing continents," to give himself
up to the unrestrained indulgence of "flowery tenderness."

It is not possible for any two writers to be more opposite in this respect.  Spenser delighted
in luxurious enjoyment; Chaucer, in severe activity of mind.  As Spenser was the most romantic
and visionary, Chaucer was the most practical of all the great poets, the most a man of business
and the world.  His poetry reads like history.  Every thing has a downright reality; at least
in the relator's mind.  A simile, or a sentiment, is as if it were given in upon evidence.
Thus he describes Cressid's first avowal of her love.

      "And as the new abashed nightingale,
      That stinteth first when she beginneth sing,
      When that she heareth any herde's tale,
      Or in the hedges any wight stirring,
      And after, sicker, doth her voice outring;
      Right so Cresseide, when that her dread stent,
      Open'd her heart, and told him her intent."

This is so true and natural, and beautifully simple, that the two things seem identified with
each other.  Again, it is said in the Knight's Tale--

      "Thus passeth yere by yere, and day by day,
      Till it felle ones in a morwe of May,
      That Emelie that fayrer was to sene
      Than is the lilie upon his stalke grene;
      And fresher than the May with floures newe,
      For with the rose-colour strof hire hewe:
      I n'ot which was the finer of hem two."

This scrupulousness about the literal preference, as if some question of matter of fact was
at issue, is remarkable.  I might mention that other, where he compares the meeting between
Palamon and Arcite to a hunter waiting for a lion in a gap;--

      "That stondeth at a gap with a spere,
      Whan hunted is the lion or the bere,
      And hereth him come rushing in the greves,
      And breking both the boughes and the leves:"--

or that still finer one of Constance, when she is condemned to death:--

      "Have ye not seen somtime a pale face
      (Among a prees) of him that hath been lad
      Toward his deth, wheras he geteth no grace,
      And swiche a colour in his face hath had,
      Men mighten know him that was so bestad,
      Amonges all the faces in that route;
      So stant Custance, and loketh hire aboute."

The beauty, the pathos here does not seem to be of the poet's seeking, but a part of the necessary
texture of the fable.  He speaks of what he wishes to describe with the accuracy, the discrimination
of one who relates what has happened to himself, or has had the best information from those
who have been eye-witnesses of it.  The strokes of his pencil always tell.  He dwells only
on the essential, on that which would be interesting to the persons really concerned: yet as
he never omits any material circumstance, he is prolix from the number of points on which he
touches, without being diffuse on any one; and is sometimes tedious from the fidelity with
which he adheres to his subject, as other writers are from the frequency of their digressions
from it.  The chain of his story is composed of a number of fine links, closely connected together,
and rivetted by a single blow.  There is an instance of the minuteness which he introduces
into his most serious descriptions in his account of Palamon when left alone in his cell:

      "Swiche sorrow he maketh that the grete tour
      Resouned of his yelling and clamour:
      The pure fetters on his shinnes grete
      Were of his bitter salte teres wete."

The mention of this last circumstance looks like a part of the instructions he had to follow,
which he had no discretionary power to leave out or introduce at pleasure.  He is contented
to find grace and beauty in truth.  He exhibits for the most part the naked object, with little
drapery thrown over it.  His metaphors, which are few, are not for ornament, but use, and as
like as possible to the things themselves.  He does not affect to shew his power over the reader's
mind, but the power which his subject has over his own.  The readers of Chaucer's poetry feel
more nearly what the persons he describes must have felt, than perhaps those of any other poet.
His sentiments are not voluntary effusions of the poet's fancy, but founded on the natural
impulses and habitual prejudices of the characters he has to represent.  There is an inveteracy
of purpose, a sincerity of feeling, which never relaxes or grows vapid, in whatever they do
or say.  There is no artificial, pompous display, but a strict parsimony of the poet's materials,
like the rude simplicity of the age in which he lived.  His poetry resembles the root just
springing from the ground, rather than the full-blown flower.  His muse is no "babbling gossip
of the air," fluent and redundant; but, like a stammerer, or a dumb person, that has just found
the use of speech, crowds many things together with eager haste, with anxious pauses, and fond
repetitions to prevent mistake.  His words point as an index to the objects, like the eye or
finger.  There were none of the common-places of poetic diction in our author's time, no reflected
lights of fancy, no borrowed roseate tints; he was obliged to inspect things for himself, to
look narrowly, and almost to handle the object, as in the obscurity of morning we partly see
and partly grope our way; so that his descriptions have a sort of tangible character belonging
to them, and produce the effect of sculpture on the mind.  Chaucer had an equal eye for truth
of nature and discrimination of character; and his interest in what he saw gave new distinctness
and force to his power of observation.  The picturesque and the dramatic are in him closely
blended together, and hardly distinguishable; for he principally describes external appearances
as indicating character, as symbols of internal sentiment. There is a meaning in what he sees;
and it is this which catches his eye by sympathy.  Thus the costume and dress of the Canterbury
Pilgrims--of the Knight--the Squire--the Oxford Scholar--the Gap-toothed Wife of Bath, and
the rest, speak for themselves.  To take one or two of these at random:

      "There was also a nonne, a Prioresse,
      That of hire smiling was ful simple and coy;
      Hire gretest othe n'as but by seint Eloy:
      And she was cleped Madame Eglentine.
      At mete was she wel ytaughte withalle;
      She lette no morsel from hire lippes falle,
      Ne wette hire fingres in hire sauce depe.

      *   *   *   *   *   *

      And sikerly she was of great disport,
      And ful plesant, and amiable of port,
      And peined hire to contrefeten chere
      Of court, and ben estatelich of manere,
      And to ben holden digne of reverence.
        But for to speken of hire conscience,
      She was so charitable and so pitous,
      She wolde wepe if that she saw a mous
      Caughte in a trappe, if it were ded or bledde.
      Of smale houndes hadde she, that she fedde
      With rosted flesh, and milk, and wastel brede.
      But sore wept she if on of hem were dede,
      Or if men smote it with a yerde smert:
      And all was conscience and tendre herte.
        Ful semely hire wimple ypinched was;
      Hire nose tretis; hire eyen grey as glas;
      Hire mouth ful smale; and therto soft and red;
      But sickerly she hadde a fayre forehed.
      It was almost a spanne brode, I trowe."

      "A Monk there was, a fayre for the maistrie,
      An out-rider, that loved venerie:
      A manly man, to ben an abbot able.
      Ful many a deinte hors hadde he in stable:
      And whan he rode, men mighte his bridel here,
      Gingeling in a whistling wind as clere,
      And eke as loude, as doth the chapell belle,
      Ther as this lord was keper of the celle.
        The reule of Seint Maure and of Seint Beneit,
      Because that it was olde and somdele streit,
      This ilke monk lette olde thinges pace,
      And held after the newe world the trace. [*]
      He yave not of the text a pulled hen,
      That saith, that hunters ben not holy men;--
      Therfore he was a prickasoure a right:
      Greihoundes he hadde as swift as foul of flight:
      Of pricking and of hunting for the hare
      Was all his lust, for no cost wolde he spare.
        I saw his sleves purfiled at the hond
      With gris, and that the finest of the lond.
      And for to fasten his hood under his chinne,
      He had of gold ywrought a curious pinne:
      A love-knotte in the greter end ther was.
      His hed was balled, and shone as any glas,
      And eke his face, as it hadde ben anoint.
      He was a lord ful fat and in good point.
      His eyen stepe, and rolling in his hed,
      That stemed as a forneis of a led.
      His botes souple, his hors in gret estat,
      Now certainly he was a fayre prelat.
      He was not pale as a forpined gost.
      A fat swan loved he best of any rost.
      His palfrey was as broune as is a bery."

[*] PG transcriber's note: "space" instead of "trace" in some editions.

The Serjeant at Law is the same identical individual as Lawyer Dowling in Tom Jones, who wished
to divide himself into a hundred pieces, to be in a hundred places at once.

      "No wher so besy a man as he ther n'as,
      And yet he semed besier than he was."

The Frankelein, in "whose hous it snewed of mete and drinke"; the Shipman, "who rode upon a
rouncie, as he couthe"; the Doctour of Phisike, "whose studie was but litel of the Bible";
the Wif of Bath, in

      "All whose parish ther was non,
      That to the offring before hire shulde gon,
      And if ther did, certain so wroth was she,
      That she was out of alle charitee;"

--the poure Persone of a toun, "whose parish was wide, and houses fer asonder"; the Miller,
and the Reve, "a slendre colerike man," are all of the same stamp.  They are every one samples
of a kind; abstract definitions of a species.  Chaucer, it has been said, numbered the classes
of men, as Linnaeus numbered the plants.  Most of them remain to this day: others that are
obsolete, and may well be dispensed with, still live in his descriptions of them.  Such is
the Sompnoure:

      "A Sompnoure was ther with us in that place,
      That hadde a fire-red cherubinnes face,
      For sausefleme he was, with eyen narwe,
      As hote he was, and likerous as a sparwe,
      With scalled browes blake, and pilled berd:
      Of his visage children were sore aferd.
      Ther n'as quicksilver, litarge, ne brimston,
      Boras, ceruse, ne oile of tartre non,
      Ne oinement that wolde clense or bite,
      That him might helpen of his whelkes white,
      Ne of the knobbes sitting on his chekes.
      Wel loved he garlike, onions, and lekes,
      And for to drinke strong win as rede as blood.
      Than wolde he speke, and crie as he were wood.
      And whan that he wel dronken had the win,
      Than wold he speken no word but Latin.
      A fewe termes coude he, two or three,
      That he had lerned out of som decree;
      No wonder is, he heard it all the day.--
        In danger hadde he at his owen gise
      The yonge girles of the diocise,
      And knew hir conseil, and was of hir rede.
      A gerlond hadde he sette upon his hede
      As gret as it were for an alestake:
      A bokeler hadde he made him of a cake.
      With him ther rode a gentil Pardonere--
      That hadde a vois as smale as hath a gote."

It would be a curious speculation (at least for those who think that the characters of men
never change, though manners, opinions, and institutions may) to know what has become of this
character of the Sompnoure in the present day; whether or not it has any technical representative
in existing professions; into what channels and conduits it has withdrawn itself, where it
lurks unseen in cunning obscurity, or else shews its face boldly, pampered into all the insolence
of office, in some other shape, as it is deterred or encouraged by circumstances. Chaucer's
characters modernised, upon this principle of historic derivation, would be an useful addition
to our knowledge of human nature. But who is there to undertake it?

The descriptions of the equipage, and accoutrements of the two kings of Thrace and Inde, in
the Knight's Tale, are as striking and grand, as the others are lively and natural:

      "Ther maist thou se coming with Palamon
      Licurge himself, the grete king of Trace:
      Blake was his berd, and manly was his face,
      The cercles of his eyen in his hed
      They gloweden betwixen yelwe and red,
      And like a griffon loked he about,
      With kemped heres on his browes stout;
      His limmes gret, his braunes hard and stronge,
      His shouldres brode, his armes round and longe
      And as the guise was in his contree,
      Ful highe upon a char of gold stood he,
      With foure white bolles in the trais.
      Instede of cote-armure on his harnais,
      With nayles yelwe, and bright as any gold,
      He hadde a beres skin, cole-blake for old.
      His longe here was kempt behind his bak,
      As any ravenes fether it shone for blake.
      A wreth of gold arm-gret, of huge weight,
      Upon his hed sate full of stones bright,
      Of fine rubins [sic] and of diamants.
      About his char ther wenten white alauns,
      Twenty and mo, as gret as any stere,
      To hunten at the leon or the dere,
      And folwed him, with mosel fast ybound.--
        With Arcita, in stories as men find,
      The grete Emetrius, the king of Inde,
      Upon a stede bay, trapped in stele,
      Covered with cloth of gold diapred wele,
      Came riding like the god of armes Mars.
      His cote-armure was of a cloth of Tars,
      Couched with perles, white, and round and grete.
      His sadel was of brent gold new ybete;
      A mantelet upon his shouldres hanging
      Bret-ful of rubies red, as fire sparkling.
      His crispe here like ringes was yronne,
      And that was yelwe, and glitered as the Sonne.
      His nose was high, his eyen bright citrin,
      His lippes round, his colour was sanguin,
      A fewe fraknes in his face yspreint,
      Betwixen yelwe and blake somdel ymeint,
      And as a leon he his loking caste.
      Of five and twenty yere his age I caste.
      His berd was wel begonnen for to spring;
      His vois was as a trompe thondering.
      Upon his hed he wered of laurer grene
      A gerlond freshe and lusty for to sene.
      Upon his hond he bare for his deduit
      An egle tame, as any lily whit.--
      About this king ther ran on every part
      Ful many a tame leon and leopart."

What a deal of terrible beauty there is contained in this description! The imagination of a
poet brings such objects before us, as when we look at wild beasts in a menagerie; their claws
are pared, their eyes glitter like harmless lightning; but we gaze at them with a pleasing
awe, clothed in beauty, formidable in the sense of abstract power.

Chaucer's descriptions of natural scenery possess the same sort of characteristic excellence,
or what might be termed gusto.  They have a local truth and freshness, which gives the very
feeling of the air, the coolness or moisture of the ground.  Inanimate objects are thus made
to have a fellow-feeling in the interest of the story; and render back the sentiment of the
speaker's mind.  One of the finest parts of Chaucer is of this mixed kind.  It is the beginning
of the Flower and the Leaf, where he describes the delight of that young beauty, shrowded in
her bower, and listening, in the morning of the year, to the singing of the nightingale; while
her joy rises with the rising song, and gushes out afresh at every pause, and is borne along
with the full tide of pleasure, and still increases, and repeats, and prolongs itself, and
knows no ebb.  The coolness of the arbour, its retirement, the early time of the day, the sudden
starting up of the birds in the neighbouring bushes, the eager delight with which they devour
and rend the opening buds and flowers, are expressed with a truth and feeling, which make the
whole appear like the recollection of an actual scene:

      "Which as me thought was right a pleasing sight,
      And eke the briddes song for to here,
      Would haue rejoyced any earthly wight,
      And I that couth not yet in no manere
      Heare the nightingale of all the yeare,
      Ful busily herkened with herte and with eare,
      If I her voice perceiue coud any where.

      And I that all this pleasaunt sight sie,
      Thought sodainly I felt so sweet an aire
      Of the eglentere, that certainely
      There is no herte I deme in such dispaire,
      Ne with thoughts froward and contraire,
      So ouerlaid, but it should soone haue bote,
      If it had ones felt this savour sote.

      And as I stood and cast aside mine eie,
      I was ware of the fairest medler tree
      That ever yet in all my life I sie
      As full of blossomes as it might be,
      Therein a goldfinch leaping pretile
      Fro bough to bough, and as him list he eet
      Here and there of buds and floures sweet.

      And to the herber side was joyning
      This faire tree, of which I haue you told,
      And at the last the brid began to sing,
      Whan he had eaten what he eat wold,
      So passing sweetly, that by manifold
      It was more pleasaunt than I coud deuise,
      And whan his song was ended in this wise,

      The nightingale with so merry a note
      Answered him, that all the wood rong
      So sodainly, that as it were a sote,
      I stood astonied, so was I with the song
      Thorow rauished, that till late and long,
      I ne wist in what place I was, ne where,
      And ayen me thought she song euen by mine ere.

      Wherefore I waited about busily
      On euery side, if I her might see,
      And at the last I gan full well aspie
      Where she sat in a fresh grene laurer tree,
      On the further side euen right by me,
      That gaue so passing a delicious smell,
      According to the eglentere full well.

      Whereof I had so inly great pleasure,
      That as me thought I surely rauished was
      Into Paradice, where my desire
      Was for to be, and no ferther passe
      As for that day, and on the sote grasse,
      I sat me downe, for as for mine entent,
      The birds song was more conuenient,

      And more pleasaunt to me by manifold,
      Than meat or drinke, or any other thing,
      Thereto the herber was so fresh and cold,
      The wholesome sauours eke so comforting,
      That as I demed, sith the beginning
      Of the world was neur seene or than
      So pleasaunt a ground of none earthly man.

      And as I sat the birds harkening thus,
      Me thought that I heard voices sodainly,
      The most sweetest and most delicious
      That euer any wight I trow truly
      Heard in their life, for the armony
      And sweet accord was in so good musike,
      That the uoice to angels was most like."

There is here no affected rapture, no flowery sentiment: the whole is an ebullition of natural
delight "welling out of the heart," like water from a crystal spring.  Nature is the soul of
art: there is a strength as well as a simplicity in the imagination that reposes entirely on
nature, that nothing else can supply.  It was the same trust in nature, and reliance on his
subject, which enabled Chaucer to describe the grief and patience of Griselda; the faith of
Constance; and the heroic perseverance of the little child, who, going to school through the
streets of Jewry,

      "Oh Alma Redemptoris mater, loudly sung,"

and who after his death still triumphed in his song.  Chaucer has more of this deep, internal,
sustained sentiment, than any other writer, except Boccaccio.  In depth of simple pathos, and
intensity of conception, never swerving from his subject, I think no other writer comes near
him, not even the Greek tragedians.  I wish to be allowed to give one or two instances of what
I mean.  I will take the following from the Knight's Tale.  The distress of Arcite, in consequence
of his banishment from his love, is thus described:

        "Whan that Arcite to Thebes comen was,
      Ful oft a day he swelt and said Alas,
      For sene his lady shall he never mo.
      And shortly to concluden all his wo,
      So mochel sorwe hadde never creature,
      That is or shall be, while the world may dure.
      His slepe, his mete, his drinke is him byraft.
      That lene he wex, and drie as is a shaft.
      His eyen holwe, and grisly to behold,
      His hewe salwe, and pale as ashen cold,
      And solitary he was, and ever alone,
      And wailing all the night, making his mone.
      And if he herde song or instrument,
      Than wold he wepe, he mighte not be stent.
      So feble were his spirites, and so low,
      And changed so, that no man coude know
      His speche ne his vois, though men it herd."

This picture of the sinking of the heart, of the wasting away of the body and mind, of the
gradual failure of all the faculties under the contagion of a rankling sorrow, cannot be surpassed.
Of the same kind is his farewel to his mistress, after he has gained her hand and lost his
life in the combat:

        "Alas the wo! alas the peines stronge,
      That I for you have suffered, and so longe!
      Alas the deth! alas min Emilie!
      Alas departing of our compagnie;
      Alas min hertes quene! alas my wif!
      Min hertes ladie, ender of my lif!
      What is this world? what axen men to have?
      Now with his love, now in his colde grave
      Alone withouten any compagnie."

The death of Arcite is the more affecting, as it comes after triumph and victory, after the
pomp of sacrifice, the solemnities of prayer, the celebration of the gorgeous rites of chivalry.
The descriptions of the three temples of Mars, of Venus, and Diana, of the ornaments and ceremonies
used in each, with the reception given to the offerings of the lovers, have a beauty and grandeur,
much of which is lost in Dryden's version.  For instance, such lines as the following are not
rendered with their true feeling.

      "Why shulde I not as well eke tell you all
      The purtreiture that was upon the wall
      Within the temple of mighty Mars the rede--
      That highte the gret temple of Mars in Trace
      In thilke colde and frosty region,
      Ther as Mars hath his sovereine mansion.
      First on the wall was peinted a forest,
      In which ther wonneth neyther man ne best,
      With knotty knarry barrein trees old
      Of stubbes sharpe and hidous to behold;
      In which ther ran a romble and a swough,
      As though a storme shuld bresten every bough."

And again, among innumerable terrific images of death and slaughter painted on the wall, is
this one:

      "The statue of Mars upon a carte stood
      Armed, and looked grim as he were wood.
      A wolf ther stood beforne him at his fete
      With eyen red, and of a man he ete."

The story of Griselda is in Boccaccio; but the Clerk of Oxenforde, who tells it, professes
to have learned it from Petrarch.  This story has gone all over Europe, and has passed into
a proverb.  In spite of the barbarity of the circumstances, which are abominable, the sentiment
remains unimpaired and unalterable.  It is of that kind, "that heaves no sigh, that sheds no
tear"; but it hangs upon the beatings of the heart; it is a part of the very being; it is as
inseparable from it as the breath we draw.  It is still and calm as the face of death.  Nothing
can touch it in its ethereal purity: tender as the yielding flower, it is fixed as the marble
firmament.  The only remonstrance she makes, the only complaint she utters against all the
ill-treatment she receives, is that single line where, when turned back naked to her father's
house, she says,

      "Let me not like a worm go by the way."

The first outline given of the character is inimitable:

      "Nought fer fro thilke paleis honourable,
      Wher as this markis shope his marriage,
      Ther stood a thorpe, of sighte delitable,
      In which that poure folk of that village
      Hadden hir bestes and her herbergage,
      And of hir labour toke hir sustenance,
      After that the erthe yave hem habundance.

      Among this poure folk ther dwelt a man,
      Which that was holden pourest of hem all:
      But highe God sometime senden can
      His grace unto a litel oxes stall:
      Janicola men of that thorpe him call.
      A doughter had he, faire ynough to sight,
      And Grisildis this yonge maiden hight.

      But for to speke of vertuous beautee,
      Than was she on the fairest under Sonne:
      Ful pourely yfostred up was she:
      No likerous lust was in hire herte yronne;
      Ful ofter of the well than of the tonne
      She dranke, and for she wolde vertue plese,
      She knew wel labour, but non idel ese.

      But though this mayden tendre were of age,
      Yet in the brest of hire virginitee
      Ther was enclosed sad and ripe corage:
      And in gret reverence and charitee
      Hire olde poure fader fostred she:
      A few sheep spinning on the feld she kept,
      She wolde not ben idel til she slept.

      And whan she homward came she wolde bring
      Wortes and other herbes times oft,
      The which she shred and sethe for hire living,
      And made hire bed ful hard, and nothing soft:
      And ay she kept hire fadres lif on loft
      With every obeisance and diligence,
      That child may don to fadres reverence,

      Upon Grisilde, this poure creature,
      Ful often sithe this markis sette his sye, [sic]
      As he on hunting rode paraventure:
      And whan it fell that he might hire espie,
      He not with wanton loking of folie
      His eyen cast on hire, but in sad wise
      Upon hire chere he wold him oft avise,

      Commending in his herte hire womanhede,
      And eke hire vertue, passing any wight
      Of so yong age, as wel in chere as dede.
      For though the people have no gret insight
      In vertue, he considered ful right
      Hire bountee, and disposed that he wold
      Wedde hire only, if ever he wedden shold.

      Grisilde of this (God wot) ful innocent,
      That for hire shapen was all this array,
      To fetchen water at a welle is went,
      And cometh home as sone as ever she may.
      For wel she had herd say, that thilke day
      The markis shulde wedde, and, if she might,
      She wolde fayn han seen som of that sight.

      She thought, "I wol with other maidens stond,
      That ben my felawes, in our dore, and see
      The markisesse, and therto wol I fond
      To don at home, as sone as it may be,
      The labour which longeth unto me,
      And than I may at leiser hire behold,
      If she this way unto the castel hold."

      And she wolde over the threswold gon,
      The markis came and gan hire for to call,
      And she set doun her water-pot anon
      Beside the threswold in an oxes stall,
      And doun upon hire knees she gan to fall.
      And with sad countenance kneleth still,
      Till she had herd what was the lordes will."

The story of the little child slain in Jewry, (which is told by the Prioress, and worthy to
be told by her who was "all conscience and tender heart,") is not less touching than that of
Griselda.  It is simple and heroic to the last degree.  The poetry of Chaucer has a religious
sanctity about it, connected with the manners and superstitions of the age.  It has all the
spirit of martyrdom.

It has also all the extravagance and the utmost licentiousness of comic humour, equally arising
out of the manners of the time.  In this too Chaucer resembled Boccaccio that he excelled in
both styles, and could pass at will "from grave to gay, from lively to severe"; but he never
confounded the two styles together (except from that involuntary and unconscious mixture of
the pathetic and humorous, which is almost always to be found in nature,) and was exclusively
taken up with what he set about, whether it was jest or earnest.  The Wife of Bath's Prologue
(which Pope has very admirably modernised) is, perhaps, unequalled as a comic story.  The Cock
and the Fox is also excellent for lively strokes of character and satire.  January and May
is not so good as some of the others.  Chaucer's versification, considering the time at which
he wrote, and that versification is a thing in a great degree mechanical, is not one of his
least merits.  It has considerable strength and harmony, and its apparent deficiency in the
latter respect arises chiefly from the alterations which have since taken place in the pronunciation
or mode of accenting the words of the language.  The best general rule for reading him is to
pronounce the final e, as in reading Italian.

It was observed in the last Lecture that painting describes what the object is in itself, poetry
what it implies or suggests.  Chaucer's poetry is not, in general, the best confirmation of
the truth of this distinction, for his poetry is more picturesque and historical than almost
any other.  But there is one instance in point which I cannot help giving in this place.  It
is the story of the three thieves who go in search of Death to kill him, and who meeting with
him, are entangled in their fate by his words, without knowing him.  In the printed catalogue
to Mr. West's (in some respects very admirable) picture of Death on the Pale Horse, it is observed,
that "In poetry the same effect is produced by a few abrupt and rapid gleams of description,
touching, as it were with fire, the features and edges of a general mass of awful obscurity;
but in painting, such indistinctness would be a defect, and imply that the artist wanted the
power to pourtray the conceptions of his fancy. Mr. West was of opinion that to delineate a
physical form, which in its moral impression would approximate to that of the visionary Death
of Milton, it was necessary to endow it, if possible, with the appearance of super-human strength
and energy.  He has therefore exerted the utmost force and perspicuity of his pencil on the
central figure."--One might suppose from this, that the way to represent a shadow was to make
it as substantial as possible.  Oh, no! Painting has its prerogatives, (and high ones they
are) but they lie in representing the visible, not the invisible.  The moral attributes of
Death are powers and effects of an infinitely wide and general description, which no individual
or physical form can possibly represent, but by a courtesy of speech, or by a distant analogy.
The moral impression of Death is essentially visionary; its reality is in the mind's eye. 
Words are here the only things; and things, physical forms, the mere mockeries of the understanding.
The less definite, the less bodily the conception, the more vast, unformed, and unsubstantial,
the nearer does it approach to some resemblance of that omnipresent, lasting, universal, irresistible
principle, which every where, and at some time or other, exerts its power over all things.
Death is a mighty abstraction, like Night, or Space, or Time.  He is an ugly customer, who
will not be invited to supper, or to sit for his picture.  He is with us and about us, but
we do not see him.  He stalks on before us, and we do not mind him: he follows us close behind,
and we do not turn to look back at him.  We do not see him making faces at us in our life-time,
nor perceive him afterwards sitting in mock-majesty, a twin-skeleton, beside us, tickling our
bare ribs, and staring into our hollow eye-balls! Chaucer knew this.  He makes three riotous
companions go in search of Death to kill him, they meet with an old man whom they reproach
with his age, and ask why he does not die, to which he answers thus:

      "Ne Deth, alas! ne will not han my lif.
      Thus walke I like a restless caitiff,
      And on the ground, which is my modres gate,
      I knocke with my staf, erlich and late,
      And say to hire, "Leve mother, let me in.
      Lo, how I vanish, flesh and blood and skin,
      Alas! when shall my bones ben at reste?
      Mother, with you wolde I changen my cheste,
      That in my chambre longe time hath be,
      Ye, for an heren cloute to wrap in me."
      But yet to me she will not don that grace,
      For which ful pale and welked is my face."

They then ask the old man where they shall find out Death to kill him, and he sends them on
an errand which ends in the death of all three. We hear no more of him, but it is Death that
they have encountered!

The interval between Chaucer and Spenser is long and dreary.  There is nothing to fill up the
chasm but the names of Occleve, "ancient Gower," Lydgate, Wyatt, Surry, and Sackville.

[2] Taken from Tasso. [3] This word is an instance of those unwarrantable freedoms which Spenser
sometimes took with language.

LECTURE III. ON SHAKSPEARE AND MILTON.

In looking back to the great works of genius in former times, we are sometimes disposed to
wonder at the little progress which has since been made in poetry, and in the arts of imitation
in general.  But this is perhaps a foolish wonder.  Nothing can be more contrary to the fact,
than the supposition that in what we understand by the fine arts, as painting, and poetry,
relative perfection is only the result of repeated efforts in successive periods, and that
what has been once well done, constantly leads to something better.  What is mechanical, reducible
to rule, or capable of demonstration, is progressive, and admits of gradual improvement: what
is not mechanical, or definite, but depends on feeling, taste, and genius, very soon becomes
stationary, or retrograde, and loses more than it gains by transfusion.  The contrary opinion
is a vulgar error, which has grown up, like many others, from transferring an analogy of one
kind to something quite distinct, without taking into the account the difference in the nature
of the things, or attending to the difference of the results.  For most persons, finding what
wonderful advances have been made in biblical criticism, in chemistry, in mechanics, in geometry,
astronomy, &c. i.e. in things depending on mere inquiry and experiment, or on absolute demonstration,
have been led hastily to conclude, that there was a general tendency in the efforts of the
human intellect to improve by repetition, and, in all other arts and institutions, to grow
perfect and mature by time.  We look back upon the theological creed of our ancestors, and
their discoveries in natural philosophy, with a smile of pity: science, and the arts connected
with it, have all had their infancy, their youth, and manhood, and seem to contain in them
no principle of limitation or decay: and, inquiring no farther about the matter, we infer,
in the intoxication of our pride, and the height of our self-congratulation, that the same
progress has been made, and will continue to be made, in all other things which are the work
of man.  The fact, however, stares us so plainly in the face, that one would think the smallest
reflection must suggest the truth, and overturn our sanguine theories.  The greatest poets,
the ablest orators, the best painters, and the finest sculptors that the world ever saw, appeared
soon after the birth of these arts, and lived in a state of society which was, in other respects,
comparatively barbarous.  Those arts, which depend on individual genius and incommunicable
power, have always leaped at once from infancy to manhood, from the first rude dawn of invention
to their meridian height and dazzling lustre, and have in general declined ever after.  This
is the peculiar distinction and privilege of each, of science and of art:--of the one, never
to attain its utmost limit of perfection; and of the other, to arrive at it almost at once.
Homer, Chaucer, Spenser, Shakspeare, Dante, and Ariosto, (Milton alone was of a later age,
and not the worse for it)--Raphael, Titian, Michael Angelo, Correggio, Cervantes, and Boccaccio,
the Greek sculptors and tragedians,--all lived near the beginning of their arts --perfected,
and all but created them.  These giant-sons of genius stand indeed upon the earth, but they
tower above their fellows; and the long line of their successors, in different ages, does not
interpose any object to obstruct their view, or lessen their brightness.  In strength and stature
they are unrivalled; in grace and beauty they have not been surpassed.  In after-ages, and
more refined periods, (as they are called) great men have arisen, one by one, as it were by
throes and at intervals; though in general the best of these cultivated and artificial minds
were of an inferior order; as Tasso and Pope, among poets; Guido and Vandyke, among painters.
But in the earlier stages of the arts, as soon as the first mechanical difficulties had been
got over, and the language was sufficiently acquired, they rose by clusters, and in constellations,
never so to rise again!

The arts of painting and poetry are conversant with the world of thought within us, and with
the world of sense around us--with what we know, and see, and feel intimately.  They flow from
the sacred shrine of our own breasts, and are kindled at the living lamp of nature.  But the
pulse of the passions assuredly beat as high, the depths and soundings of the human heart were
as well understood three thousand, or three hundred years ago, as they are at present: the
face of nature, and "the human face divine" shone as bright then as they have ever done.  But
it is their light, reflected by true genius on art, that marks out its path before it, and
sheds a glory round the Muses' feet, like that which

               "Circled Una's angel face,
      And made a sunshine in the shady place."

LECTURE IV. ON DRYDEN AND POPE.

Dryden and Pope are the great masters of the artificial style of poetry in our language, as
the poets of whom I have already treated, Chaucer, Spenser, Shakspeare, and Milton, were of
the natural; and though this artificial style is generally and very justly acknowledged to
be inferior to the other, yet those who stand at the head of that class, ought, perhaps, to
rank higher than those who occupy an inferior place in a superior class.  They have a clear
and independent claim upon our gratitude, as having produced a kind and degree of excellence
which existed equally nowhere else.  What has been done well by some later writers of the highest
style of poetry, is included in, and obscured by a greater degree of power and genius in those
before them: what has been done best by poets of an entirely distinct turn of mind, stands
by itself, and tells for its whole amount.  Young, for instance, Gray, or Akenside, only follow
in the train of Milton and Shakspeare: Pope and Dryden walk by their side, though of an unequal
stature, and are entitled to a first place in the lists of fame.  This seems to be not only
the reason of the thing, but the common sense of mankind, who, without any regular process
of reflection, judge of the merit of a work, not more by its inherent and absolute worth, than
by its originality and capacity of gratifying a different faculty of the mind, or a different
class of readers; for it should be recollected, that there may be readers (as well as poets)
not of the highest class, though very good sort of people, and not altogether to be despised.

Dryden was a better prose-writer, and a bolder and more varied versifier than Pope.  He was
a more vigorous thinker, a more correct and logical declaimer, and had more of what may be
called strength of mind than Pope; but he had not the same refinement and delicacy of feeling.
Dryden's eloquence and spirit were possessed in a higher degree by others, and in nearly the
same degree by Pope himself; but that by which Pope was distinguished, was an essence which
he alone possessed, and of incomparable value on that sole account.  Dryden's Epistles are
excellent, but inferior to Pope's, though they appear (particularly the admirable one to Congreve)
to have been the model on which the latter formed his.  His Satires are better than Pope's.
His Absalom and Achitophel is superior, both in force of invective and discrimination of character,
to any thing of Pope's in the same way.  The character of Achitophel is very fine; and breathes,
if not a sincere love for virtue, a strong spirit of indignation against vice.

Mac Flecknoe is the origin of the idea of the Dunciad; but it is less elaborately constructed,
less feeble, and less heavy.  The difference between Pope's satirical portraits and Dryden's,
appears to be this in a good measure, that Dryden seems to grapple with his antagonists, and
to describe real persons; Pope seems to refine upon them in his own mind, and to make them
out just what he pleases, till they are not real characters, but the mere driveling effusions
of his spleen and malice. Pope describes the thing, and then goes on describing his own description
till he loses himself in verbal repetitions.  Dryden recurs to the object often, takes fresh
sittings of nature, and gives us new strokes of character as well as of his pencil.  The Hind
and Panther is an allegory as well as a satire; and so far it tells less home; the battery
is not so point-blank.  But otherwise it has more genius, vehemence, and strength of description
than any other of Dryden's works, not excepting the Absalom and Achitophel.  It also contains
the finest examples of varied and sounding versification.  I will quote the following as an
instance of what I mean.  He is complaining of the treatment which the Papists, under James
II. received from the church of England.

        "Besides these jolly birds, whose corpse impure
      Repaid their commons with their salt manure,
      Another farm he had behind his house,
      Not overstocked, but barely for his use;
      Wherein his poor domestic poultry fed,
      And from his pious hand "received their bread."
      Our pampered pigeons, with malignant eyes,
      Beheld these inmates, and their nurseries;
      Though hard their fare, at evening, and at morn,
      (A cruise of water, and an ear of corn,)
      Yet still they grudged that modicum, and thought
      A sheaf in every single grain was brought.
      Fain would they filch that little food away,
      While unrestrained those happy gluttons prey;
      And much they grieved to see so nigh their hall,
      The bird that warned St. Peter of his fall;
      That he should raise his mitred crest on high,
      And clap his wings, and call his family
      To sacred rites; and vex the ethereal powers
      With midnight mattins at uncivil hours;
      Nay more, his quiet neighbours should molest,
      Just in the sweetness of their morning rest.
      Beast of a bird! supinely when he might
      Lie snug and sleep, to rise before the light!
      What if his dull forefathers us'd that cry,
      Could he not let a bad example die?
      The world was fallen into an easier way:
      This age knew better than to fast and pray.
      Good sense in sacred worship would appear,
      So to begin as they might end the year.
      Such feats in former times had wrought the falls
      Of crowing chanticleers in cloister'd walls.
      Expell'd for this, and for their lands they fled;
      And sister Partlet with her hooded head
      Was hooted hence, because she would not pray a-bed."

There is a magnanimity of abuse in some of these epithets, a fearless choice of topics of invective,
which may be considered as the heroical in satire.

The Annus Mirabilis is a tedious performance; it is a tissue of far-fetched, heavy, lumbering
conceits, and in the worst style of what has been denominated metaphysical poetry.  His Odes
in general are of the same stamp; they are the hard-strained offspring of a meagre, meretricious
fancy.  The famous Ode on St. Cecilia deserves its reputation; for, as piece of poetical mechanism
to be set to music, or recited in alternate strophe and antistrophe, with classical allusions,
and flowing verse, nothing can be better.  It is equally fit to be said or sung; it is not
equally good to read.  It is lyrical, without being epic or dramatic.  For instance, the description
of Bacchus,

      "The jolly god in triumph comes,
      Sound the trumpets, beat the drums;
      Flush'd with a purple grace,
      He shews his honest face"--

does not answer, as it ought, to our idea of the God, returning from the conquest of India,
with satyrs and wild beasts, that he had tamed, following in his train; crowned with vine leaves,
and riding in a chariot drawn by leopards--such as we have seen him painted by Titian or Rubens!
Lyrical poetry, of all others, bears the nearest resemblance to painting: it deals in hieroglyphics
and passing figures, which depend for effect, not on the working out, but on the selection.
It is the dance and pantomime of poetry.  In variety and rapidity of movement, the Alexander's
Feast has all that can be required in this respect; it only wants loftiness and truth of character.

Dryden's plays are better than Pope could have written; for though he does not go out of himself
by the force of imagination, he goes out of himself by the force of common-places and rhetorical
dialogue.  On the other hand, they are not so good as Shakspeare's; but he has left the best
character of Shakspeare that has ever been written. [5]

His alterations from Chaucer and Boccaccio shew a greater knowledge of the taste of his readers
and power of pleasing them, than acquaintance with the genius of his authors.  He ekes out
the lameness of the verse in the former, and breaks the force of the passion in both. The Tancred
and Sigismunda is the only general exception, in which, I think, he has fully retained, if
not improved upon, the impassioned declamation of the original.  The Honoria has none of the
bewildered, dreary, preternatural effect of Boccaccio's story.  Nor has the Flower and the
Leaf any thing of the enchanting simplicity and concentrated feeling of Chaucer's romantic
fiction.  Dryden, however, sometimes seemed to indulge himself as well as his readers, as in
keeping entire that noble line in Palamon's address to Venus:

      "Thou gladder of the mount of Cithaeron!"

His Tales have been, upon the whole, the most popular of his works; and I should think that
a translation of some of the other serious tales in Boccaccio and Chaucer, as that of Isabella,
the Falcon, of Constance, the Prioress's Tale, and others, if executed with taste and spirit,
could not fail to succeed in the present day.

It should appear, in tracing the history of our literature, that poetry had, at the period
of which we are speaking, in general declined, by successive gradations, from the poetry of
imagination, in the time of Elizabeth, to the poetry of fancy (to adopt a modern distinction)
in the time of Charles I.; and again from the poetry of fancy to that of wit, as in the reign
of Charles II. and Queen Anne.  It degenerated into the poetry of mere common places, both
in style and thought, in the succeeding reigns: as in the latter part of the last century,
it was transformed, by means of the French Revolution, into the poetry of paradox.

Of Donne I know nothing but some beautiful verses to his wife, dissuading her from accompanying
him on his travels abroad, and some quaint riddles in verse, which the Sphinx could not unravel.

Waller still lives in the name of Sacharissa; and his lines on the death of Oliver Cromwell
shew that he was a man not without genius and strength of thought.

Marvel is a writer of nearly the same period, and worthy of a better age.  Some of his verses
are harsh, as the words of Mercury; others musical, as is Apollo's lute.  Of the latter kind
are his boat-song, his description of a fawn, and his lines to Lady Vere.  His lines prefixed
to Paradise Lost are by no means the most favourable specimen of his powers.

Butler's Hudibras is a poem of more wit than any other in the language.  The rhymes have as
much genius in them as the thoughts; but there is no story in it, and but little humour.  Humour
is the making others act or talk absurdly and unconsciously: wit is the pointing out and ridiculing
that absurdity consciously, and with more or less ill-nature.  The fault of Butler's poem is
not that it has too much wit, but that it has not an equal quantity of other things.  One would
suppose that the starched manners and sanctified grimace of the times in which he lived, would
of themselves have been sufficiently rich in ludicrous incidents and characters; but they seem
rather to have irritated his spleen, than to have drawn forth his powers of picturesque imitation.
Certainly if we compare Hudibras with Don Quixote in this respect, it seems rather a meagre
and unsatisfactory performance.

Rochester's poetry is the poetry of wit combined with the love of pleasure, of thought with
licentiousness.  His extravagant heedless levity has a sort of passionate enthusiasm in it;
his contempt for every thing that others respect, almost amounts to sublimity.  His poem upon
Nothing is itself no trifling work.  His epigrams were the bitterest, the least laboured, and
the truest, that ever were written.

Sir John Suckling was of the same mercurial stamp, but with a greater fund of animal spirits;
as witty, but less malicious.  His Ballad on a Wedding is perfect in its kind, and has a spirit
of high enjoyment in it, of sportive fancy, a liveliness of description, and a truth of nature,
that never were surpassed.  It is superior to either Gay or Prior; for with all their naivete
and terseness, it has a Shakspearian grace and luxuriance about it, which they could not have
reached.

Denham and Cowley belong to the same period, but were quite distinct from each other: the one
was grave and prosing, the other melancholy and fantastical.  There are a number of good lines
and good thoughts in the Cooper's Hill.  And in Cowley there is an inexhaustible fund of sense
and ingenuity, buried in inextricable conceits, and entangled in the cobwebs of the schools.
He was a great man, not a great poet.  But I shall say no more on this subject.  I never wish
to meddle with names that are sacred, unless when they stand in the way of things that are
more sacred.

Withers is a name now almost forgotten, and his works seldom read; but his poetry is not unfrequently
distinguished by a tender and pastoral turn of thought; and there is one passage of exquisite
feeling, describing the consolations of poetry in the following terms:

        "She doth tell me where to borrow
      Comfort in the midst of sorrow;
      Makes the desolatest place [6]
      To her presence be a grace;
      And the blackest discontents
      Be her fairest ornaments.
      In my former days of bliss
      Her divine skill taught me this,
      That from every thing I saw,
      I could some invention draw;
      And raise pleasure to her height,
      Through the meanest object's sight,
      By the murmur of a spring,
      Or the least bough's rusteling,
      By a daisy whose leaves spread
      Shut when Titan goes to bed;
      Or a shady bush or tree,
      She could more infuse in me,
      Than all Nature's beauties can,
      In some other wiser man.
      By her help I also now
      Make this churlish place allow
      Some things that may sweeten gladness
      In the very gall of sadness.
      The dull loneness, the black shade,
      That these hanging vaults have made,
      The strange music of the waves,
      Beating on these hollow caves,
      This black den which rocks emboss,
      Overgrown with eldest moss,
      The rude portals that give light
      More to terror than delight,
      This my chamber of neglect,
      Wall'd about with disrespect,
      From all these and this dull air,
      A fit object for despair,
      She hath taught me by her might
      To draw comfort and delight.
      Therefore, thou best earthly bliss,
      I will cherish thee for this.
      Poesie; thou sweet'st content
      That ere Heav'n to mortals lent:
      Though they as a trifle leave thee,
      Whose dull thoughts cannot conceive thee,
      Though thou be to them a scorn,
      That to nought but earth are born:
      Let my life no longer be
      Than I am in love with thee.
      Though our wise ones call thee madness,
      Let me never taste of sadness,
      If I love not thy maddest fits,
      Above all their greatest wits.
      And though some too seeming holy,
      Do account thy raptures folly,
      Thou dost teach me to contemn
      What makes knaves and fools of them."

[6] Written in the Fleet Prison.

LECTURE V. ON THOMSON AND COWPER.

Thomson, the kind-hearted Thomson, was the most indolent of mortals and of poets.  But he was
also one of the best both of mortals and of poets.  Dr. Johnson makes it his praise that he
wrote "no line which dying he would wish to blot." Perhaps a better proof of his honest simplicity,
and inoffensive goodness of disposition, would be that he wrote no line which any other person
living would wish that he should blot.  Indeed, he himself wished, on his death-bed, formally
to expunge his dedication of one of the Seasons to that finished courtier, and candid biographer
of his own life, Bub Doddington.  As critics, however, not as moralists, we might say on the
other hand--"Would he had blotted a thousand!"--The same suavity of temper and sanguine warmth
of feeling which threw such a natural grace and genial spirit of enthusiasm over his poetry,
was also the cause of its inherent vices and defects.  He is affected through carelessness:
pompous from unsuspecting simplicity of character.  He is frequently pedantic and ostentatious
in his style, because he had no consciousness of these vices in himself.  He mounts upon stilts,
not out of vanity, but indolence.  He seldom writes a good line, but he makes up for it by
a bad one.  He takes advantage of all the most trite and mechanical common-places of imagery
and diction as a kindly relief to his Muse, and as if he thought them quite as good, and likely
to be quite as acceptable to the reader, as his own poetry. He did not think the difference
worth putting himself to the trouble of accomplishing.  He had too little art to conceal his
art: or did not even seem to know that there was any occasion for it.  His art is as naked
and undisguised as his nature; the one is as pure and genuine as the other is gross, gaudy,
and meretricious.--All that is admirable in the Seasons, is the emanation of a fine natural
genius, and sincere love of his subject, unforced, unstudied, that comes uncalled for, and
departs unbidden.  But he takes no pains, uses no self-correction; or if he seems to labour,
it is worse than labour lost.  His genius "cannot be constrained by mastery." The feeling of
nature, of the changes of the seasons, was in his mind; and he could not help conveying this
feeling to the reader, by the mere force of spontaneous expression; but if the expression did
not come of itself, he left the whole business to chance; or, willing to evade instead of encountering
the difficulties of his subject, fills up the intervals of true inspiration with the most vapid
and worthless materials, pieces out a beautiful half line with a bombastic allusion, or overloads
an exquisitely natural sentiment or image with a cloud of painted, pompous, cumbrous phrases,
like the shower of roses, in which he represents the Spring, his own lovely, fresh, and innocent
Spring, as descending to the earth.

      "Come, gentle Spring! ethereal Mildness! come,
      And from the bosom of yon dropping cloud,
      While music wakes around, veil'd in a shower
      Of shadowing roses, on our plains descend."

Who, from such a flimsy, round-about, unmeaning commencement as this, would expect the delightful,
unexaggerated, home-felt descriptions of natural scenery, which are scattered in such unconscious
profusion through this and the following cantos? For instance, the very next passage is crowded
with a set of striking images.

      "And see where surly Winter passes off
      Far to the north, and calls his ruffian blasts:
      His blasts obey, and quit the howling hill,
      The shatter'd forest, and the ravag'd vale;
      While softer gales succeed, at whose kind touch
      Dissolving snows in livid torrents lost,
      The mountains lift their green heads to the sky.
      As yet the trembling year is unconfirmed,
      And Winter oft at eve resumes the breeze,
      Chills the pale morn, and bids his driving sleets
      Deform the day delightless; so that scarce
      The bittern knows his time with bill ingulpht
      To shake the sounding marsh, or from the shore
      The plovers when to scatter o'er the heath,
      And sing their wild notes to the list'ning waste."

Thomson is the best of our descriptive poets: for he gives most of the poetry of natural description.
Others have been quite equal to him, or have surpassed him, as Cowper for instance, in the
picturesque part of his art, in marking the peculiar features and curious details of objects;--no
one has yet come up to him in giving the sum total of their effects, their varying influences
on the mind.  He does not go into the minutiae of a landscape, but describes the vivid impression
which the whole makes upon his own imagination; and thus transfers the same unbroken, unimpaired
impression to the imagination of his readers.  The colours with which he paints seem yet wet
and breathing, like those of the living statue in the Winter's Tale.  Nature in his descriptions
is seen growing around us, fresh and lusty as in itself.  We feel the effect of the atmosphere,
its humidity or clearness, its heat or cold, the glow of summer, the gloom of winter, the tender
promise of the spring, the full overshadowing foliage, the declining pomp and deepening tints
of autumn.  He transports us to the scorching heat of vertical suns, or plunges us into the
chilling horrors and desolation of the frozen zone. We hear the snow drifting against the broken
casement without, and see the fire blazing on the hearth within.  The first scattered drops
of a vernal shower patter on the leaves above our heads, or the coming storm resounds through
the leafless groves.  In a word, he describes not to the eye alone, but to the other senses,
and to the whole man.  He puts his heart into his subject, writes as he feels, and humanises
whatever he touches.  He makes all his descriptions teem with life and vivifying soul.  His
faults were those of his style--of the author and the man; but the original genius of the poet,
the pith and marrow of his imagination, the fine natural mould in which his feelings were bedded,
were too much for him to counteract by neglect, or affectation, or false ornaments.  It is
for this reason that he is, perhaps, the most popular of all our poets, treating of a subject
that all can understand, and in a way that is interesting to all alike, to the ignorant or
the refined, because he gives back the impression which the things themselves make upon us
in nature.  "That," said a man of genius, seeing a little shabby soiled copy of Thomson's Seasons
lying on the window-seat of an obscure country alehouse--"That is true fame!"

It has been supposed by some, that the Castle of Indolence is Thomson's best poem; but that
is not the case.  He has in it, indeed, poured out the whole soul of indolence, diffuse, relaxed,
supine, dissolved into a voluptuous dream; and surrounded himself with a set of objects and
companions, in entire unison with the listlessness of his own temper.  Nothing can well go
beyond the descriptions of these inmates of the place, and their luxurious pampered way of
life--of him who came among them like "a burnished fly in month of June," but soon left them
on his heedless way; and him,

      "For whom the merry bells had rung, I ween,
      If in this nook of quiet, bells had ever been."

The in-door quiet and cushioned ease, where "all was one full-swelling bed"; the out-of-door
stillness, broken only by "the stock-dove's plaint amid the forest deep,"

      "That drowsy rustled to the sighing gale"--

are in the most perfect and delightful keeping.  But still there are no passages in this exquisite
little production of sportive ease and fancy, equal to the best of those in the Seasons.  Warton,
in his Essay on Pope, was the first to point out and do justice to some of these; for instance,
to the description of the effects of the contagion among our ships at Carthagena--"of the frequent
corse heard nightly plunged amid the sullen waves," and to the description of the pilgrims
lost in the deserts of Arabia.  This last passage, profound and striking as it is, is not free
from those faults of style which I have already noticed.

                    "------Breath'd hot
      From all the boundless furnace of the sky,
      And the wide-glitt'ring waste of burning sand,
      A suffocating wind the pilgrim smites
      With instant death.  Patient of thirst and toil,
      Son of the desert, ev'n the camel feels
      Shot through his wither'd heart the fiery blast.
      Or from the black-red ether, bursting broad,
      Sallies the sudden whirlwind.  Straight the sands,
      Commov'd around, in gath'ring eddies play;
      Nearer and nearer still they dark'ning come,
      Till with the gen'ral all-involving storm
      Swept up, the whole continuous wilds arise,
      And by their noon-day fount dejected thrown,
      Or sunk at night in sad disastrous sleep,
      Beneath descending hills the caravan
      Is buried deep.  In Cairo's crowded streets,
      Th' impatient merchant, wond'ring, waits in vain;
      And Mecca saddens at the long delay."

There are other passages of equal beauty with these; such as that of the hunted stag, followed
by "the inhuman rout,"

          "------That from the shady depth
      Expel him, circling through his ev'ry shift.
      He sweeps the forest oft, and sobbing sees
      The glades mild op'ning to the golden day,
      Where in kind contest with his butting friends
      He wont to struggle, or his loves enjoy."

The whole of the description of the frozen zone, in the Winter, is perhaps even finer and more
thoroughly felt, as being done from early associations, than that of the torrid zone in his
Summer.  Any thing more beautiful than the following account of the Siberian exiles is, I think,
hardly to be found in the whole range of poetry.

      "There through the prison of unbounded wilds,
      Barr'd by the hand of nature from escape,
      Wide roams the Russian exile.  Nought around
      Strikes his sad eye but deserts lost in snow,
      And heavy-loaded groves, and solid floods,
      That stretch athwart the solitary vast
      Their icy horrors to the frozen main;
      And cheerless towns far distant, never bless'd,
      Save when its annual course the caravan
      Bends to the golden coast of rich Cathay,
      With news of human kind."

The feeling of loneliness, of distance, of lingering, slow-revolving years of pining expectation,
of desolation within and without the heart, was never more finely expressed than it is here.

The account which follows of the employments of the Polar night--of the journeys of the natives
by moonlight, drawn by rein-deer, and of the return of spring in Lapland--

      "Where pure Niemi's fairy mountains rise,
      And fring'd with roses Tenglio rolls his stream,"

is equally picturesque and striking in a different way.  The traveller lost in the snow, is
a well-known and admirable dramatic episode.  I prefer, however, giving one example of our
author's skill in painting common domestic scenery, as it will bear a more immediate comparison
with the style of some later writers on such subjects.  It is of little consequence what passage
we take.  The following description of the first setting in of winter is, perhaps, as pleasing
as any.

      "Through the hush'd air the whitening shower descends,
      At first thin wav'ring, till at last the flakes
      Fall broad and wide, and fast, dimming the day
      With a continual flow.  The cherish'd fields
      Put on their winter-robe of purest white:
      'Tis brightness all, save where the new snow melts
      Along the mazy current.  Low the woods
      Bow their hoar head; and ere the languid Sun,
      Faint, from the West emits his ev'ning ray,
      Earth's universal face, deep hid, and chill,
      Is one wide dazzling waste, that buries wide
      The works of man.  Drooping, the lab'rer-ox
      Stands cover'd o'er with snow, and then demands
      The fruit of all his toil.  The fowls of heav'n,
      Tam'd by the cruel season, crowd around
      The winnowing store, and claim the little boon
      Which Providence assigns them.  One alone,
      The red-breast, sacred to the household Gods,
      Wisely regardful of the embroiling sky,
      In joyless fields and thorny thickets leaves
      His shivering mates, and pays to trusted man
      His annual visit.  Half-afraid, he first
      Against the window beats; then, brisk, alights
      On the warm hearth; then hopping o'er the floor,
      Eyes all the smiling family askance,
      And pecks, and starts, and wonders where he is:
      Till more familiar grown, the table-crumbs
      Attract his slender feet.  The foodless wilds
      Pour forth their brown inhabitants.  The hare,
      Though timorous of heart, and hard beset
      By death in various forms, dark snares and dogs,
      And more unpitying men, the garden seeks,
      Urg'd on by fearless want.  The bleating kind [sic]
      Eye the bleak heav'n, and next, the glist'ning earth,
      With looks of dumb despair; then, sad dispers'd,
      Dig for the wither'd herb through heaps of snow."

It is thus that Thomson always gives a moral sense to nature.

Thomson's blank verse is not harsh, or utterly untuneable; but it is heavy and monotonous;
it seems always labouring up-hill.  The selections which have been made from his works in Enfield's
Speaker, and other books of extracts, do not convey the most favourable idea of his genius
or taste; such as Palemon and Lavinia, Damon and Musidora, Celadon and Amelia.  Those parts
of any author which are most liable to be stitched in worsted, and framed and glazed, are not
by any means always the best. The moral descriptions and reflections in the Seasons are in
an admirable spirit, and written with great force and fervour.

His poem on Liberty is not equally good: his Muse was too easy and good-natured for the subject,
which required as much indignation against unjust and arbitrary power, as complacency in the
constitutional monarchy, under which, just after the expulsion of the Stuarts and the establishment
of the House of Hanover, in contempt of the claims of hereditary pretenders to the throne,
Thomson lived.  Thomson was but an indifferent hater; and the most indispensable part of the
love of liberty has unfortunately hitherto been the hatred of tyranny.  Spleen is the soul
of patriotism, and of public good: but you would not expect a man who has been seen eating
peaches off a tree with both hands in his waistcoat pockets, to be "overrun with the spleen,"
or to heat himself needlessly about an abstract proposition.

His plays are liable to the same objection.  They are never acted, and seldom read.  The author
could not, or would not, put himself out of his way, to enter into the situations and passions
of others, particularly of a tragic kind.  The subject of Tancred and Sigismunda, which is
taken from a serious episode in Gil Blas, is an admirable one, but poorly handled: the ground
may be considered as still unoccupied.

Cowper, whom I shall speak of in this connection, lived at a considerable distance of time
after Thomson; and had some advantages over him, particularly in simplicity of style, in a
certain precision and minuteness of graphical description, and in a more careful and leisurely
choice of such topics only as his genius and peculiar habits of mind prompted him to treat
of.  The Task has fewer blemishes than the Seasons; but it has not the same capital excellence,
the "unbought grace" of poetry, the power of moving and infusing the warmth of the author's
mind into that of the reader.  If Cowper had a more polished taste, Thomson had, beyond comparison,
a more fertile genius, more impulsive force, a more entire forgetfulness of himself in his
subject. If in Thomson you are sometimes offended with the slovenliness of the author by profession,
determined to get through his task at all events; in Cowper you are no less dissatisfied with
the finicalness of the private gentleman, who does not care whether he completes his work or
not; and in whatever he does, is evidently more solicitous to please himself than the public.
There is an effeminacy about him, which shrinks from and repels common and hearty sympathy.
With all his boasted simplicity and love of the country, he seldom launches out into general
descriptions of nature: he looks at her over his clipped hedges, and from his well-swept garden-walks;
or if he makes a bolder experiment now and then, it is with an air of precaution, as if he
were afraid of being caught in a shower of rain, or of not being able, in case of any untoward
accident, to make good his retreat home.  He shakes hands with nature with a pair of fashionable
gloves on, and leads "his Vashti" forth to public view with a look of consciousness and attention
to etiquette, as a fine gentleman hands a lady out to dance a minuet.  He is delicate to fastidiousness,
and glad to get back, after a romantic adventure with crazy Kate, a party of gypsies or a little
child on a common, to the drawing room and the ladies again, to the sofa and the tea-kettle--No,
I beg his pardon, not to the singing, well-scoured tea-kettle, but to the polished and loud-hissing
urn.  His walks and arbours are kept clear of worms and snails, with as much an appearance
of petit-maitreship as of humanity.  He has some of the sickly sensibility and pampered refinements
of Pope; but then Pope prided himself in them: whereas, Cowper affects to be all simplicity
and plainness.  He had neither Thomson's love of the unadorned beauties of nature, nor Pope's
exquisite sense of the elegances of art.  He was, in fact, a nervous man, afraid of trusting
himself to the seductions of the one, and ashamed of putting forward his pretensions to an
intimacy with the other: but to be a coward, is not the way to succeed either in poetry, in
war, or in love! Still he is a genuine poet, and deserves all his reputation.  His worst vices
are amiable weaknesses, elegant trifling.  Though there is a frequent dryness, timidity, and
jejuneness in his manner, he has left a number of pictures of domestic comfort and social refinement,
as well as of natural imagery and feeling, which can hardly be forgotten but with the language
itself.  Such, among others, are his memorable description of the post coming in, that of the
preparations for tea in a winter's evening in the country, of the unexpected fall of snow,
of the frosty morning (with the fine satirical transition to the Empress of Russia's palace
of ice), and most of all, the winter's walk at noon.  Every one of these may be considered
as distinct studies, or highly finished cabinet-pieces, arranged without order or coherence.
I shall be excused for giving the last of them, as what has always appeared to me one of the
most feeling, elegant, and perfect specimens of this writer's manner.

      "The night was winter in his roughest mood;
      The morning sharp and clear.  But now at noon
      Upon the southern side of the slant hills,
      And where the woods fence off the northern blast,
      The season smiles, resigning all its rage,
      And has the warmth of May.  The vault is blue,
      Without a cloud, and white without a speck
      The dazzling splendour of the scene below.
      Again the harmony comes o'er the vale;
      And through the trees I view th' embattled tow'r,
      Whence all the music.  I again perceive
      The soothing influence of the wafted strains,
      And settle in soft musings as I tread
      The walk, still verdant, under oaks and elms,
      Whose outspread branches overarch the glade.
      The roof, though moveable through all its length,
      As the wind sways it, has yet well suffic'd,
      And, intercepting in their silent fall
      The frequent flakes, has kept a path for me.
      No noise is here, or none that hinders thought.
      The redbreast warbles still, but is content
      With slender notes, and more than half suppress'd.
      Pleas'd with his solitude, and flitting light
      From spray to spray, where'er he rests he shakes
      From many a twig the pendent drop of ice,
      That tinkle in the wither'd leaves below.
      Stillness, accompanied with sounds so soft,
      Charms more than silence.  Meditation here
      May think down hours to moments.  Here the heart
      May give a useful lesson to the head,
      And Learning wiser grow without his books.
      Knowledge and Wisdom, far from being one,
      Have oft-times no connection.  Knowledge dwells
      In heads replete with thoughts of other men;
      Wisdom in minds attentive to their own.
      Books are not seldom talismans and spells,
      By which the magic art of shrewder wits
      Holds an unthinking multitude enthrall'd.
      Some to the fascination of a name
      Surrender judgment hood-wink'd.  Some the style
      Infatuates, and through labyrinths and wilds
      Of error leads them, by a tune entranc'd.
      While sloth seduces more, too weak to bear
      The insupportable fatigue of thought,
      And swallowing therefore without pause or choice
      The total grist unsifted, husks and all.
      But trees, and rivulets whose rapid course
      Defies the check of winter, haunts of deer,
      And sheep-walks populous with bleating lambs,
      And lanes, in which the primrose ere her time
      Peeps through the moss that clothes the hawthorn root,
      Deceive no student.  Wisdom there, and truth,
      Not shy, as in the world, and to be won
      By slow solicitation, seize at once
      The roving thought, and fix it on themselves."

His satire is also excellent.  It is pointed and forcible, with the polished manners of the
gentleman, and the honest indignation of the virtuous man.  His religious poetry, except where
it takes a tincture of controversial heat, wants elevation and fire.  His Muse had not a seraph's
wing.  I might refer, in illustration of this opinion, to the laboured anticipation of the
Millennium at the end of the sixth book.  He could describe a piece of shell-work as well as
any modern poet: but he could not describe the New Jerusalem so well as John Bunyan;--nor are
his verses on Alexander Selkirk so good as Robinson Crusoe.  The one is not so much like a
vision, nor is the other so much like the reality.

The first volume of Cowper's poems has, however, been less read than it deserved.  The comparison
in these poems of the proud and humble believer to the peacock and the pheasant, and the parallel
between Voltaire and the poor cottager, are exquisite pieces of eloquence and poetry, particularly
the last.

        "Yon cottager, who weaves at her own door,
      Pillow and bobbins all her little store;
      Content though mean, and cheerful if not gay,
      Shuffling her threads about the live-long day,
      Just earns a scanty pittance, and at night,
      Lies down secure, her heart and pocket light;
      She, for her humble sphere by nature fit,
      Has little understanding, and no wit,
      Receives no praise; but, though her lot be such,
      (Toilsome and indigent) she renders much;
      Just knows, and knows no more, her Bible true--
      A truth the brilliant Frenchman never knew;
      And in that charter reads with sparkling eyes
      Her title to a treasure in the skies.

        O happy peasant!  Oh unhappy bard!
      His the mere tinsel, hers the rich reward;
      He prais'd, perhaps, for ages yet to come,
      She never heard of half a mile from home:
      He lost in errors his vain heart prefers,
      She safe in the simplicity of hers."

His character of Whitfield, in the poem on Hope, is one of his most spirited and striking things.
It is written con amore.

        "But if, unblameable in word and thought,
      A man arise, a man whom God has taught,
      With all Elijah's dignity of tone,
      And all the love of the beloved John,
      To storm the citadels they build in air,
      To smite the untemper'd wall ('tis death to spare,)
      To sweep away all refuges of lies,
      And place, instead of quirks, themselves devise,
      Lama Sabachthani before their eyes;
      To show that without Christ all gain is loss,
      All hope despair that stands not on his cross;
      Except a few his God may have impressed,
      A tenfold phrensy seizes all the rest."

These lines were quoted, soon after their appearance, by the Monthly Reviewers, to shew that
Cowper was no poet, though they afterwards took credit to themselves for having been the first
to introduce his verses to the notice of the public.  It is not a little remarkable that these
same critics regularly damned, at its first coming out, every work which has since acquired
a standard reputation with the public.--Cowper's verses on his mother's picture, and his lines
to Mary, are some of the most pathetic that ever were written.  His stanzas on the loss of
the Royal George have a masculine strength and feeling beyond what was usual with him.  The
story of John Gilpin has perhaps given as much pleasure to as many people as any thing of the
same length that ever was written.

His life was an unhappy one.  It was embittered by a morbid affection, and by his religious
sentiments.  Nor are we to wonder at this, or bring it as a charge against religion; for it
is the nature of the poetical temperament to carry every thing to excess, whether it be love,
religion, pleasure, or pain, as we may see in the case of Cowper and of Burns, and to find
torment or rapture in that in which others merely find a resource from ennui, or a relaxation
from common occupation.

There are two poets still living who belong to the same class of excellence, and of whom I
shall here say a few words; I mean Crabbe, and Robert Bloomfield, the author of the Farmer's
Boy.  As a painter of simple natural scenery, and of the still life of the country, few writers
have more undeniable and unassuming pretensions than the ingenious and self-taught poet, last-mentioned.
Among the sketches of this sort I would mention, as equally distinguished for delicacy, faithfulness,
and naivete, his description of lambs racing, of the pigs going out an acorning, of the boy
sent to feed his sheep before the break of day in winter; and I might add the innocently told
story of the poor bird-boy, who in vain through the live-long day expects his promised companions
at his hut, to share his feast of roasted sloes with him, as an example of that humble pathos,
in which this author excels. The fault indeed of his genius is that it is too humble: his Muse
has something not only rustic, but menial in her aspect.  He seems afraid of elevating nature,
lest she should be ashamed of him.  Bloomfield very beautifully describes the lambs in springtime
as racing round the hillocks of green turf: Thomson, in describing the same image, makes the
mound of earth the remains of an old Roman encampment.  Bloomfield never gets beyond his own
experience; and that is somewhat confined.  He gives the simple appearance of nature, but he
gives it naked, shivering, and unclothed with the drapery of a moral imagination.  His poetry
has much the effect of the first approach of spring, "while yet the year is unconfirmed," where
a few tender buds venture forth here and there, but are chilled by the early frosts and nipping
breath of poverty.--It should seem from this and other instances that have occurred within
the last century, that we cannot expect from original genius alone, without education, in modern
and more artificial periods, the same bold and independent results as in former periods.  And
one reason appears to be, that though such persons, from whom we might at first expect a restoration
of the good old times of poetry, are not encumbered and enfeebled by the trammels of custom,
and the dull weight of other men's ideas; yet they are oppressed by the consciousness of a
want of the common advantages which others have; are looking at the tinsel finery of the age,
while they neglect the rich unexplored mine in their own breasts; and instead of setting an
example for the world to follow, spend their lives in aping, or in the despair of aping, the
hackneyed accomplishments of their inferiors.  Another cause may be, that original genius alone
is not sufficient to produce the highest excellence, without a corresponding state of manners,
passions, and religious belief: that no single mind can move in direct opposition to the vast
machine of the world around it; that the poet can do no more than stamp the mind of his age
upon his works; and that all that the ambition of the highest genius can hope to arrive at,
after the lapse of one or two generations, is the perfection of that more refined and effeminate
style of studied elegance and adventitious ornament, which is the result, not of nature, but
of art.  In fact, no other style of poetry has succeeded, or seems likely to succeed, in the
present day.  The public taste hangs like a millstone round the neck of all original genius
that does not conform to established and exclusive models.  The writer is not only without
popular sympathy, but without a rich and varied mass of materials for his mind to work upon
and assimilate unconsciously to itself; his attempts at originality are looked upon as affectation,
and in the end, degenerate into it from the natural spirit of contradiction, and the constant
uneasy sense of disappointment and undeserved ridicule. But to return.

Crabbe is, if not the most natural, the most literal of our descriptive poets.  He exhibits
the smallest circumstances of the smallest things.  He gives the very costume of meanness;
the nonessentials of every trifling incident.  He is his own landscape-painter, and engraver
too.  His pastoral scenes seem pricked on paper in little dotted lines.  He describes the interior
of a cottage like a person sent there to distrain for rent.  He has an eye to the number of
arms in an old worm-eaten chair, and takes care to inform himself and the reader whether a
joint-stool stands upon three legs or upon four.  If a settle by the fire-side stands awry,
it gives him as much disturbance as a tottering world; and he records the rent in a ragged
counterpane as an event in history.  He is equally curious in his back-grounds and in his figures.
You know the Christian and surnames of every one of his heroes,--the dates of their achievements,
whether on a Sunday or a Monday,--their place of birth and burial, the colour of their clothes,
and of their hair, and whether they squinted or not.  He takes an inventory of the human heart
exactly in the same manner as of the furniture of a sick room: his sentiments have very much
the air of fixtures; he gives you the petrifaction of a sigh, and carves a tear, to the life,
in stone.  Almost all his characters are tired of their lives, and you heartily wish them dead.
They remind one of anatomical preservations; or may be said to bear the same relation to actual
life that a stuffed cat in a glass-case does to the real one purring on the hearth: the skin
is the same, but the life and the sense of heat is gone.  Crabbe's poetry is like a museum,
or curiosity-shop: every thing has the same posthumous appearance, the same inanimateness and
identity of character.  If Bloomfield is too much of the Farmer's Boy, Crabbe is too much of
the parish beadle, an overseer of the country poor.  He has no delight beyond the walls of
a workhouse, and his officious zeal would convert the world into a vast infirmary.  He is a
kind of Ordinary, not of Newgate, but of nature.  His poetical morality is taken from Burn's
Justice, or the Statutes against Vagrants.  He sets his own imagination in the stocks, and
his Muse, like Malvolio, "wears cruel garters." He collects all the petty vices of the human
heart, and superintends, as in a panopticon, a select circle of rural malefactors.  He makes
out the poor to be as bad as the rich--a sort of vermin for the others to hunt down and trample
upon, and this he thinks a good piece of work.  With him there are but two moral categories,
riches and poverty, authority and dependence.  His parish apprentice, Richard Monday, and his
wealthy baronet, Sir Richard Monday, of Monday-place, are the same individual-- the extremes
of the same character, and of his whole system.  "The latter end of his Commonwealth does not
forget the beginning." But his parish ethics are the very worst model for a state: any thing
more degrading and helpless cannot well be imagined.  He exhibits just the contrary view of
human life to that which Gay has done in his Beggar's Opera.  In a word, Crabbe is the only
poet who has attempted and succeeded in the still life of tragedy: who gives the stagnation
of hope and fear-- the deformity of vice without the temptation--the pain of sympathy without
the interest--and who seems to rely, for the delight he is to convey to his reader, on the
truth and accuracy with which he describes only what is disagreeable.

The best descriptive poetry is not, after all, to be found in our descriptive poets.  There
are set descriptions of the flowers, for instance, in Thomson, Cowper, and others; but none
equal to those in Milton's Lycidas, and in the Winter's Tale.

We have few good pastorals in the language.  Our manners are not Arcadian; our climate is not
an eternal spring; our age is not the age of gold.  We have no pastoral-writers equal to Theocritus,
nor any landscapes like those of Claude Lorraine.  The best parts of Spenser's Shepherd's Calendar
are two fables, Mother Hubberd's Tale, and the Oak and the Briar; which last is as splendid
a piece of oratory as any to be found in the records of the eloquence of the British senate!
Browne, who came after Spenser, and Withers, have left some pleasing allegorical poems of this
kind.  Pope's are as full of senseless finery and trite affectation, as if a peer of the realm
were to sit for his picture with a crook and cocked hat on, smiling with an insipid air of
no-meaning, between nature and fashion.  Sir Philip Sidney's Arcadia is a lasting monument
of perverted power; where an image of extreme beauty, as that of "the shepherd boy piping as
though he should never be old," peeps out once in a hundred folio pages, amidst heaps of intricate
sophistry and scholastic quaintness.  It is not at all like Nicholas Poussin's picture, in
which he represents some shepherds wandering out in a morning of the spring, and coming to
a tomb with this inscription--"I also was an Arcadian!" Good cheer is not neglected in this
work, any more than in Homer, or any other history that sets a proper value on the good things
of this life.  The prints in the Complete Angler give an additional reality and interest to
the scenes it describes.  While Tottenham Cross shall stand, and longer, thy work, amiable
and happy old man, shall last!--It is in the notes to it that we find that character of "a
fair and happy milkmaid," by Sir Thomas Overbury, which may vie in beauty and feeling with
Chaucer's character of Griselda.

      "A fair and happy milk-maid is a country wench that is so far from
making herself beautiful by art, that one look of her's is able to put
all face-physic out of countenance.  She knows a fair look is but a dumb
orator to commend virtue, therefore minds it not.  All her excellences
stand in her so silently, as if they had stolen upon her without her
knowledge.  The lining of her apparel (which is herself) is far better
than outsides of tissue; for though she be not arrayed in the spoil of
the silkworm, she is decked in innocency, a far better wearing.  She doth
not, with lying long in bed, spoil both her complexion and conditions.
Nature hath taught her, too immoderate sleep is rust to the soul: she
rises therefore with chanticleer, her dame's cock, and at night makes
the lamb her curfew.  Her breath is her own, which scents all the year
long of June, like a new-made haycock.  She makes her hand hard with
labour, and her heart soft with pity; and when winter evenings fall
early (sitting at her merry wheel) she sings a defiance to the giddy
wheel of Fortune.  She doth all things with so sweet a grace, it seems
ignorance will not suffer her to do ill, being her mind is to do well.
She bestows her year's wages at next fair; and in choosing her garments,
counts no bravery in the world like decency.  The garden and bee-hive are
all her physic and chirurgery, and she lives the longer for't.  She dares
go alone, and unfold sheep in the night, and fears no manner of ill,
because she means none: yet, to say the truth, she is never alone, for
she is still accompanied with old songs, honest thoughts, and prayers,
but short ones; yet they have their efficacy, in that they are not
palled with ensuing idle cogitations.  Lastly, her dreams are so chaste,
that she dare tell them; only a Friday's dream is all her superstition;
that she conceals for fear of anger.  Thus lives she; and all her care is
she may die in the spring-time, to have store of flowers stuck upon her
winding-sheet."

The love of the country has been sung by poets, and echoed by philosophers; but the first have
not attempted, and the last have been greatly puzzled to account for it.  I do not know that
any one has ever explained, satisfactorily, the true source of this feeling, or of that soothing
emotion which the sight of the country, or a lively description of rural objects hardly ever
fails to infuse into the mind.  Some have ascribed this feeling to the natural beauty of the
objects themselves; others to the freedom from care, the silence and tranquillity which scenes
of retirement afford; others to the healthy and innocent employments of a country life; others
to the simplicity of country manners, and others to a variety of different causes; but none
to the right one.  All these, indeed, have their effect; but there is another principal one
which has not been touched upon, or only slightly glanced at.  I will not, however, imitate
Mr. Horne Tooke, who after enumerating seventeen different definitions of the verb, and laughing
at them all as deficient and nugatory, at the end of two quarto volumes does not tell us what
the verb really is, and has left posterity to pluck out "the heart of his mystery." I will
say at once what it is that distinguishes this interest from others, and that is its abstractedness.
The interest we feel in human nature is exclusive, and confined to the individual; the interest
we feel in external nature is common, and transferable from one object to all others of the
same class.  Thus.

Rousseau in his Confessions relates, that when he took possession of his room at Annecy, he
found that he could see "a little spot of green" from his window, which endeared his situation
the more to him, because, he says, it was the first time he had had this object constantly
before him since he left Boissy, the place where he was at school when a child. [7] Some such
feeling as that here described will be found lurking at the bottom of all our attachments of
this sort.  Were it not for the recollections habitually associated with them, natural objects
could not interest the mind in the manner they do.  No doubt, the sky is beautiful, the clouds
sail majestically along its bosom; the sun is cheering; there is something exquisitely graceful
in the manner in which a plant or tree puts forth its branches; the motion with which they
bend and tremble in the evening breeze is soft and lovely; there is music in the babbling of
a brook; the view from the top of a mountain is full of grandeur; nor can we behold the ocean
with indifference.  Or, as the Minstrel sweetly sings,

      "Oh, how canst thou renounce the boundless store
        Of charms which Nature to her votary yields!
      The warbling woodland, the resounding shore,
        The pomp of groves, and garniture of fields;
      All that the genial ray of morning gilds,
        And all that echoes to the song of even,
      All that the mountain's sheltering bosom shields,
        And all the dread magnificence of heaven,
      Oh, how canst thou renounce, and hope to be forgiven!"

[7] Pope also declares that he had a particular regard for an old post which stood in the court-yard
before the house where he was brought up.

It is not, however, the beautiful and magnificent alone that we admire in Nature; the most
insignificant and rudest objects are often found connected with the strongest emotions; we
become attached to the most common and familiar images, as to the face of a friend whom we
have long known, and from whom we have received many benefits.  It is because natural objects
have been associated with the sports of our childhood, with air and exercise, with our feelings
in solitude, when the mind takes the strongest hold of things, and clings with the fondest
interest to whatever strikes its attention; with change of place, the pursuit of new scenes,
and thoughts of distant friends; it is because they have surrounded us in almost all situations,
in joy and in sorrow, in pleasure and in pain; because they have been one chief source and
nourishment of our feelings, and a part of our being, that we love them as we do ourselves.

There is, generally speaking, the same foundation for our love of Nature as for all our habitual
attachments, namely, association of ideas.  But this is not all.  That which distinguishes
this attachment from others is the transferable nature of our feelings with respect to physical
objects; the associations connected with any one object extending to the whole class.  Our
having been attached to any particular person does not make us feel the same attachment to
the next person we may chance to meet; but, if we have once associated strong feelings of delight
with the objects of natural scenery, the tie becomes indissoluble, and we shall ever after
feel the same attachment to other objects of the same sort.  I remember when I was abroad,
the trees, and grass, and wet leaves, rustling in the walks of the Thuilleries, seemed to be
as much English, to be as much the same trees and grass, that I had always been used to, as
the sun shining over my head was the same sun which I saw in England; the faces only were foreign
to me.  Whence comes this difference? It arises from our always imperceptibly connecting the
idea of the individual with man, and only the idea of the class with natural objects.  In the
one case, the external appearance or physical structure is the least thing to be attended to;
in the other, it is every thing.  The springs that move the human form, and make it friendly
or adverse to me, lie hid within it.  There is an infinity of motives, passions, and ideas,
contained in that narrow compass, of which I know nothing, and in which I have no share.  Each
individual is a world to himself, governed by a thousand contradictory and wayward impulses.
I can, therefore, make no inference from one individual to another; nor can my habitual sentiments,
with respect to any individual, extend beyond himself to others.  A crowd of people presents
a disjointed, confused, and unsatisfactory appearance to the eye, because there is nothing
to connect the motley assemblage into one continuous or general impression, unless when there
is some common object of interest to fix their attention, as in the case of a full pit at the
play-house.  The same principle will also account for that feeling of littleness, vacuity,
and perplexity, which a stranger feels on entering the streets of a populous city.  Every individual
he meets is a blow to his personal identity.  Every new face is a teazing, unanswered riddle.
He feels the same wearisome sensation in walking from Oxford Street to Temple Bar, as a person
would do who should be compelled to read through the first leaf of all the volumes in a library.
But it is otherwise with respect to nature.  A flock of sheep is not a contemptible, but a
beautiful sight. The greatest number and variety of physical objects do not puzzle the will,
or distract the attention, but are massed together under one uniform and harmonious feeling.
The heart reposes in greater security on the immensity of Nature's works, "expatiates freely
there," and finds elbow room and breathing space.  We are always at home with Nature.  There
is neither hypocrisy, caprice, nor mental reservation in her favours. Our intercourse with
her is not liable to accident or change, suspicion or disappointment: she smiles on us still
the same.  A rose is always sweet, a lily is always beautiful: we do not hate the one, nor
envy the other.  If we have once enjoyed the cool shade of a tree, and been lulled into a deep
repose by the sound of a brook running at its foot, we are sure that wherever we can find a
shady stream, we can enjoy the same pleasure again; so that when we imagine these objects,
we can easily form a mystic personification of the friendly power that inhabits them, Dryad
or Naiad, offering its cool fountain or its tempting shade.  Hence the origin of the Grecian
mythology.  All objects of the same kind being the same, not only in their appearance, but
in their practical uses, we habitually confound them together under the same general idea;
and whatever fondness we may have conceived for one, is immediately placed to the common account.
The most opposite kinds and remote trains of feeling gradually go to enrich the same sentiment;
and in our love of nature, there is all the force of individual attachment, combined with the
most airy abstraction.  It is this circumstance which gives that refinement, expansion, and
wild interest, to feelings of this sort, when strongly excited, which every one must have experienced
who is a true lover of nature.

It is the same setting sun that we see and remember year after year, through summer and winter,
seed-time and harvest.  The moon that shines above our heads, or plays through the checquered
shade, is the same moon that we used to read of in Mrs. Radcliffe's romances.  We see no difference
in the trees first covered with leaves in the spring.

Thus nature is a kind of universal home, and every object it presents to us an old acquaintance
with unaltered looks; for there is that consent and mutual harmony among all her works, one
undivided spirit pervading them throughout, that to him who has well acquainted himself with
them, they speak always the same well-known language, striking on the heart, amidst unquiet
thoughts and the tumult of the world, like the music of one's native tongue heard in some far-off
country.

The daisy that first strikes the child's eye in trying to leap over his own shadow, is the
same flower that with timid upward glance implores the grown man not to tread upon it.  Rousseau,
in one of his botanical excursions, meeting with the periwinkle, fell upon his knees, crying
out--Ah! voila de la pervenche! It was because he had thirty years before brought home the
same flower with him in one of his rambles with Madame de Warens, near Chambery.  It struck
him as the same identical little blue flower that he remembered so well; and thirty years of
sorrow and bitter regret were effaced from his memory.  That, or a thousand other flowers of
the same name, were the same to him, to the heart, and to the eye; but there was but one Madame
Warens in the world, whose image was never absent from his thoughts; with whom flowers and
verdure sprung up beneath his feet, and without whom all was cold and barren in nature and
in his own breast.  The cuckoo, "that wandering voice," that comes and goes with the spring,
mocks our ears with one note from youth to age; and the lapwing, screaming round the traveller's
path, repeats for ever the same sad story of Tereus and Philomel!

LECTURE VI. ON SWIFT, YOUNG, GRAY, COLLINS, &c.

I shall in the present Lecture go back to the age of Queen Anne, and endeavour to give a cursory
account of the most eminent of our poets, of whom I have not already spoken, from that period
to the present.

The three principal poets among the wits of Queen Anne's reign, next to Pope, were Prior, Swift,
and Gay.  There has been a great deal said and written about the plagiarisms of Sterne; but
the only real plagiarism he has been guilty of (if such theft were a crime), is in taking Tristram
Shandy's father from Martin's, the elder Scriblerus.  There is a research in the choice of
a plain, as well as of an ornamented or learned style; and, in fact, a great deal more.  Among
common English words, there may be ten expressing the same thing with different degrees of
force and propriety, and only one of them the very word we want, because it is the only one
that answers exactly with the idea we have in our minds.  Each word in familiar use has a different
set of associations and shades of meaning attached to it, and distinguished from each other
by inveterate custom; and it is in having the whole of these at our command, and in knowing
which to choose, as they are called for by the occasion, that the perfection of a pure conversational
prose-style consists.  But in writing a florid and artificial style, neither the same range
of invention, nor the same quick sense of propriety--nothing but learning is required.  If
you know the words, and their general meaning, it is sufficient: it is impossible you should
know the nicer inflections of signification, depending on an endless variety of application,
in expressions borrowed from a foreign or dead language.  They all impose upon the ear alike,
because they are not familiar to it; the only distinction left is between the pompous and the
plain; the sesquipedalia verba have this advantage, that they are all of one length; and any
words are equally fit for a learned style, so that we have never heard them before.  Themistocles
thought that the same sounding epithets could not suit all subjects, as the same dress does
not fit all persons.  The style of our modern prose writers is very fine in itself; but it
wants variety of inflection and adaptation; it hinders us from seeing the differences of the
things it undertakes to describe.

What I have here insisted on will be found to be the leading distinction between the style
of Swift, Arbuthnot, Steele, and the other writers of the age of Queen Anne, and the style
of Dr. Johnson, which succeeded to it.  The one is English, and the other is not.  The writers
first mentioned, in order to express their thoughts, looked about them for the properest word
to convey any idea, that the language which they spoke, and which their countrymen understood,
afforded: Dr. Johnson takes the first English word that offers, and by translating it at a
venture into the first Greek or Latin word he can think of, only retaining the English termination,
produces an extraordinary effect upon the reader, by much the same sort of mechanical process
that Trim converted the old jack-boots into a pair of new mortars.

Dr. Johnson was a lazy learned man, who liked to think and talk, better than to read or write;
who, however, wrote much and well, but too often by rote.  His long compound Latin phrases
required less thought, and took up more room than others.  What shews the facilities afforded
by this style of imposing generalization, is, that it was instantly adopted with success by
all those who were writers by profession, or who were not; and that at present, we cannot see
a lottery puff or a quack advertisement pasted against a wall, that is not perfectly Johnsonian
in style.  Formerly, the learned had the privilege of translating their notions into Latin;
and a great privilege it was, as it confined the reputation and emoluments of learning to themselves.
Dr. Johnson may be said to have naturalised this privilege, by inventing a sort of jargon translated
half-way out of one language into the other, which raised the Doctor's reputation, and confounded
all ranks in literature.

In the short period above alluded to, authors professed to write as other men spoke; every
body now affects to speak as authors write; and any one who retains the use of his mother tongue,
either in writing or conversation, is looked upon as a very illiterate character.

Prior and Gay belong, in the characteristic excellences of their style, to the same class of
writers with Suckling, Rochester, and Sedley: the former imbibed most of the licentious levity
of the age of Charles II. and carried it on beyond the Revolution under King William. Prior
has left no single work equal to Gay's Fables, or the Beggar's Opera.  But in his lyrical and
fugitive pieces he has shown even more genius, more playfulness, more mischievous gaiety. 
No one has exceeded him in the laughing grace with which he glances at a subject that will
not bear examining, with which he gently hints at what cannot be directly insisted on, with
which he half conceals, and half draws aside the veil from some of the Muses' nicest mysteries.
His Muse is, in fact, a giddy wanton flirt, who spends her time in playing at snap-dragon and
blind-man's buff, who tells what she should not, and knows more than she tells.  She laughs
at the tricks she shews us, and blushes, or would be thought to do so, at what she keeps concealed.
Prior has translated several of Fontaine's Tales from the French; and they have lost nothing
in the translation, either of their wit or malice.  I need not name them: but the one I like
the most, is that of Cupid in search of Venus's doves.  No one could insinuate a knavish plot,
a tender point, a loose moral, with such unconscious archness, and careless raillery, as if
he gained new self-possession and adroitness from the perplexity and confusion into which he
throws scrupulous imaginations, and knew how to seize on all the ticklish parts of his subject,
from their involuntarily shrinking under his grasp.  Some of his imitations of Boileau's servile
addresses to Louis XIV. which he has applied with a happy mixture of wit and patriotic enthusiasm
to King William, or as he familiarly calls him, to

      "Little Will, the scourge of France,
      No Godhead, but the first of men,"

are excellent, and shew the same talent for double-entendre and the same gallantry of spirit,
whether in the softer lyric, or the more lively heroic.  Some of Prior's bon mots are the best
that are recorded.--His serious poetry, as his Solomon, is as heavy as his familiar style was
light and agreeable.  His moral Muse is a Magdalen, and should not have obtruded herself on
public view.  Henry and Emma is a paraphrase of the old ballad of the Nut-brown Maid, and not
so good as the original.  In short, as we often see in other cases, where men thwart their
own genius, Prior's sentimental and romantic productions are mere affectation, the result not
of powerful impulse or real feeling, but of a consciousness of his deficiencies, and a wish
to supply their place by labour and art.

Gay was sometimes grosser than Prior, not systematically, but inadvertently--from not being
so well aware of what he was about; nor was there the same necessity for caution, for his grossness
is by no means so seductive or inviting.

Gay's Fables are certainly a work of great merit, both as to the quantity of invention implied,
and as to the elegance and facility of the execution.  They are, however, spun out too long;
the descriptions and narrative are too diffuse and desultory; and the moral is sometimes without
point.  They are more like Tales than Fables.  The best are, perhaps, the Hare with Many Friends,
the Monkeys, and the Fox at the Point of Death.  His Pastorals are pleasing and poetical. 
But his capital work is his Beggar's Opera.  It is indeed a masterpiece of wit and genius,
not to say of morality.  In composing it, he chose a very unpromising ground to work upon,
and he has prided himself in adorning it with all the graces, the precision, and brilliancy
of style.  It is a vulgar error to call this a vulgar play.  So far from it, that I do not
scruple to say that it appears to me one of the most refined productions in the language. 
The elegance of the composition is in exact proportion to the coarseness of the materials:
by "happy alchemy of mind," the author has extracted an essence of refinement from the dregs
of human life, and turns its very dross into gold.  The scenes, characters, and incidents are,
in themselves, of the lowest and most disgusting kind: but, by the sentiments and reflections
which are put into the mouths of highwaymen, turnkeys, their mistresses, wives, or daughters,
he has converted this motley group into a set of fine gentlemen and ladies, satirists and philosophers.
He has also effected this transformation without once violating probability, or "o'erstepping
the modesty of nature." In fact, Gay has turned the tables on the critics; and by the assumed
licence of the mock-heroic style, has enabled himself to do justice to nature, that is, to
give all the force, truth, and locality of real feeling to the thoughts and expressions, without
being called to the bar of false taste and affected delicacy.  The extreme beauty and feeling
of the song, "Woman is like the fair flower in its lustre," are only equalled by its characteristic
propriety and naivete.  Polly describes her lover going to the gallows, with the same touching
simplicity, and with all the natural fondness of a young girl in her circumstances, who sees
in his approaching catastrophe nothing but the misfortunes and the personal accomplishments
of the object of her affections.  "I see him sweeter than the nosegay in his hand; the admiring
crowd lament that so lovely a youth should come to an untimely end:--even butchers weep, and
Jack Ketch refuses his fee rather than consent to tie the fatal knot." The preservation of
the character and costume is complete.  It has been said by a great authority--"There is some
soul of goodness in things evil":--and the Beggar's Opera is a good-natured but instructive
comment on this text.  The poet has thrown all the gaiety and sunshine of the imagination,
all the intoxication of pleasure, and the vanity of despair, round the shortlived existence
of his heroes; while Peachum and Lockitt are seen in the back-ground, parcelling out their
months and weeks between them.  The general view exhibited of human life is of the most subtle
and abstracted kind.  The author has, with great felicity, brought out the good qualities and
interesting emotions almost inseparable from the lowest conditions; and with the same penetrating
glance, has detected the disguises which rank and circumstances lend to exalted vice.  Every
line in this sterling comedy sparkles with wit, and is fraught with the keenest sarcasm.  The
very wit, however, takes off from the offensiveness of the satire; and I have seen great statesmen,
very great statesmen, heartily enjoying the joke, laughing most immoderately at the compliments
paid to them as not much worse than pickpockets and cut-throats in a different line of life,
and pleased, as it were, to see themselves humanised by some sort of fellowship with their
kind.  Indeed, it may be said that the moral of the piece is to shew the vulgarity of vice;
or that the same violations of integrity and decorum, the same habitual sophistry in palliating
their want of principle, are common to the great and powerful, with the meanest and most contemptible
of the species.  What can be more convincing than the arguments used by these would-be politicians,
to shew that in hypocrisy, selfishness, and treachery, they do not come up to many of their
betters? The exclamation of Mrs. Peachum, when her daughter marries Macheath, "Hussy, hussy,
you will be as ill used, and as much neglected, as if you had married a lord," is worth all
Miss Hannah More's laboured invectives on the laxity of the manners of high life!

I shall conclude this account of Gay with his verses on Sir Richard Blackmore, which may serve
at once as a specimen of his own manner, and as a character of a voluminous contemporary poet,
who was admired by Mr. Locke, and knighted by King William III.

        "See who ne'er was nor will be half-read,
      Who first sung Arthur, then sung Alfred;
      Praised great Eliza in God's anger,
      Till all true Englishmen cried, 'Hang her!'--
      Maul'd human wit in one thick satire;
      Next in three books spoil'd human nature:
      Undid Creation at a jerk,
      And of Redemption made damn'd work.
      Then took his Muse at once, and dipt her
      Full in the middle of the Scripture.
      What wonders there the man, grown old, did?
      Sternhold himself he out Sternholded.
      Made David seem so mad and freakish,
      All thought him just what thought King Achish.
      No mortal read his Solomon
      But judg'd Re'boam his own son.
      Moses he serv'd as Moses Pharaoh,
      And Deborah as she Siserah,
      Made Jeremy full sore to cry,
      And Job himself curse God and die.
      What punishment all this must follow?
      Shall Arthur use him like King Tollo?
      Shall David as Uriah slay him?
      Or dextrous Deborah Siserah him?
      No!--none of these!  Heaven spare his life!
      But send him, honest Job, thy wife!"

Gay's Trivia, or Art of Walking the Streets, is as pleasant as walking the streets must have
been at the time when it was written.  His ballad of Black Eyed Susan is one of the most delightful
that can be imagined; nor do I see that it is a bit the worse for Mr. Jekyll's parody on it.

Swift's reputation as a poet has been in a manner obscured by the greater splendour, by the
natural force and inventive genius of his prose writings; but if he had never written either
the Tale of a Tub or Gulliver's Travels, his name merely as a poet would have come down to
us, and have gone down to posterity with well earned honours.  His Imitations of Horace, and
still more his Verses on his own Death, place him in the first rank of agreeable moralists
in verse.  There is not only a dry humour, an exquisite tone of irony, in these productions
of his pen; but there is a touching, unpretending pathos, mixed up with the most whimsical
and eccentric strokes of pleasantry and satire.  His Description of the Morning in London,
and of a City Shower, which were first published in the Tatler, are among the most delightful
of the contents of that very delightful work.  Swift shone as one of the most sensible of the
poets; he is also distinguished as one of the most nonsensical of them.  No man has written
so many lack-a-daisical, slip-shod, tedious, trifling, foolish, fantastical verses as he, which
are so little an imputation on the wisdom of the writer; and which, in fact, only shew his
readiness to oblige others, and to forget himself. He has gone so far as to invent a new stanza
of fourteen and sixteen syllable lines for Mary the cookmaid to vent her budget of nothings,
and for Mrs. Harris to gossip with the deaf old housekeeper.  Oh, when shall we have such another
Rector of Laracor!--The Tale of a Tub is one of the most masterly compositions in the language,
whether for thought, wit, or style.  It is so capital and undeniable a proof of the author's
talents, that Dr. Johnson, who did not like Swift, would not allow that he wrote it.  It is
hard that the same performance should stand in the way of a man's promotion to a bishopric,
as wanting gravity, and at the same time be denied to be his, as having too much wit.  It is
a pity the Doctor did not find out some graver author, for whom he felt a critical kindness,
on whom to father this splendid but unacknowledged production. Dr. Johnson could not deny that
Gulliver's Travels were his; he therefore disputed their merits, and said that after the first
idea of them was conceived, they were easy to execute; all the rest followed mechanically.
I do not know how that may be; but the mechanism employed is something very different from
any that the author of Rasselas was in the habit of bringing to bear on such occasions.  There
is nothing more futile, as well as invidious, than this mode of criticising a work of original
genius.  Its greatest merit is supposed to be in the invention; and you say, very wisely, that
it is not in the execution.  You might as well take away the merit of the invention of the
telescope, by saying that, after its uses were explained and understood, any ordinary eyesight
could look through it.  Whether the excellence of Gulliver's Travels is in the conception or
the execution, is of little consequence; the power is somewhere, and it is a power that has
moved the world.  The power is not that of big words and vaunting common places.  Swift left
these to those who wanted them; and has done what his acuteness and intensity of mind alone
could enable any one to conceive or to perform. His object was to strip empty pride and grandeur
of the imposing air which external circumstances throw around them; and for this purpose he
has cheated the imagination of the illusions which the prejudices of sense and of the world
put upon it, by reducing every thing to the abstract predicament of size.  He enlarges or diminishes
the scale, as he wishes to shew the insignificance or the grossness of our overweening self-love.
That he has done this with mathematical precision, with complete presence of mind and perfect
keeping, in a manner that comes equally home to the understanding of the man and of the child,
does not take away from the merit of the work or the genius of the author.  He has taken a
new view of human nature, such as a being of a higher sphere might take of it; he has torn
the scales from off his moral vision; he has tried an experiment upon human life, and sifted
its pretensions from the alloy of circumstances; he has measured it with a rule, has weighed
it in a balance, and found it, for the most part, wanting and worthless --in substance and
in shew.  Nothing solid, nothing valuable is left in his system but virtue and wisdom.  What
a libel is this upon mankind! What a convincing proof of misanthropy! What presumption and
what malice prepense, to shew men what they are, and to teach them what they ought to be! What
a mortifying stroke aimed at national glory, is that unlucky incident of Gulliver's wading
across the channel and carrying off the whole fleet of Blefuscu! After that, we have only to
consider which of the contending parties was in the right.  What a shock to personal vanity
is given in the account of Gulliver's nurse Glumdalclitch! Still, notwithstanding the disparagement
to her personal charms, her good-nature remains the same amiable quality as before.  I cannot
see the harm, the misanthropy, the immoral and degrading tendency of this.  The moral lesson
is as fine as the intellectual exhibition is amusing.  It is an attempt to tear off the mask
of imposture from the world; and nothing but imposture has a right to complain of it.  It is,
indeed, the way with our quacks in morality to preach up the dignity of human nature, to pamper
pride and hypocrisy with the idle mockeries of the virtues they pretend to, and which they
have not: but it was not Swift's way to cant morality, or any thing else; nor did his genius
prompt him to write unmeaning panegyrics on mankind!

I do not, therefore, agree with the estimate of Swift's moral or intellectual character, given
by an eminent critic, who does not seem to have forgotten the party politics of Swift.  I do
not carry my political resentments so far back: I can at this time of day forgive Swift for
having been a Tory.  I feel little disturbance (whatever I might think of them) at his political
sentiments, which died with him, considering how much else he has left behind him of a more
solid and imperishable nature! If he had, indeed, (like some others) merely left behind him
the lasting infamy of a destroyer of his country, or the shining example of an apostate from
liberty, I might have thought the case altered.

The determination with which Swift persisted in a preconcerted theory, savoured of the morbid
affection of which he died.  There is nothing more likely to drive a man mad, than the being
unable to get rid of the idea of the distinction between right and wrong, and an obstinate,
constitutional preference of the true to the agreeable.  Swift was not a Frenchman.  In this
respect he differed from Rabelais and Voltaire.  They have been accounted the three greatest
wits in modern times; but their wit was of a peculiar kind in each.  They are little beholden
to each other; there is some resemblance between Lord Peter in the Tale of a Tub, and Rabelais'
Friar John; but in general they are all three authors of a substantive character in themselves.
Swift's wit (particularly in his chief prose works) was serious, saturnine, and practical;
Rabelais' was fantastical and joyous; Voltaire's was light, sportive, and verbal.  Swift's
wit was the wit of sense; Rabelais', the wit of nonsense; Voltaire's, of indifference to both.
The ludicrous in Swift arises out of his keen sense of impropriety, his soreness and impatience
of the least absurdity.  He separates, with a severe and caustic air, truth from falsehood,
folly from wisdom, "shews vice her own image, scorn her own feature"; and it is the force,
the precision, and the honest abruptness with which the separation is made, that excites our
surprise, our admiration, and laughter.  He sets a mark of reprobation on that which offends
good sense and good manners, which cannot be mistaken, and which holds it up to our ridicule
and contempt ever after.  His occasional disposition to trifling (already noticed) was a relaxation
from the excessive earnestness of his mind.  Indignatio facit versus.  His better genius was
his spleen.  It was the biting acrimony of his temper that sharpened his other faculties. 
The truth of his perceptions produced the pointed coruscations of his wit; his playful irony
was the result of inward bitterness of thought; his imagination was the product of the literal,
dry, incorrigible tenaciousness of his understanding.  He endeavoured to escape from the persecution
of realities into the regions of fancy, and invented his Lilliputians and Brobdingnagians,
Yahoos, and Houynhyms, as a diversion to the more painful knowledge of the world around him:
they only made him laugh, while men and women made him angry.  His feverish impatience made
him view the infirmities of that great baby the world, with the same scrutinizing glance and
jealous irritability that a parent regards the failings of its offspring; but, as Rousseau
has well observed, parents have not on this account been supposed to have more affection for
other people's children than their own.  In other respects, and except from the sparkling effervescence
of his gall, Swift's brain was as "dry as the remainder biscuit after a voyage." He hated absurdity--
Rabelais loved it, exaggerated it with supreme satisfaction, luxuriated in its endless varieties,
rioted in nonsense, "reigned there and revelled." He dwelt on the absurd and ludicrous for
the pleasure they gave him, not for the pain.  He lived upon laughter, and died laughing. He
indulged his vein, and took his full swing of folly.  He did not baulk his fancy or his readers.
His wit was to him "as riches fineless"; he saw no end of his wealth in that way, and set no
limits to his extravagance: he was communicative, prodigal, boundless, and inexhaustible. 
His were the Saturnalia of wit, the riches and the royalty, the health and long life.  He is
intoxicated with gaiety, mad with folly.  His animal spirits drown him in a flood of mirth:
his blood courses up and down his veins like wine.  His thirst of enjoyment is as great as
his thirst of drink: his appetite for good things of all sorts is unsatisfied, and there is
a never-ending supply.  Discourse is dry; so they moisten their words in their cups, and relish
their dry jests with plenty of Botargos and dried neats' tongues.  It is like Camacho's wedding
in Don Quixote, where Sancho ladled out whole pullets and fat geese from the soup-kettles at
a pull.  The flagons are setting a running, their tongues wag at the same time, and their mirth
flows as a river. How Friar John roars and lays about him in the vineyard! How Panurge whines
in the storm, and how dexterously he contrives to throw the sheep overboard! How much Pantagruel
behaves like a wise king! How Gargantua mewls, and pules [sic], and slabbers his nurse, and
demeans himself most like a royal infant! what provinces he devours! what seas he drinks up!
How he eats, drinks, and sleeps--sleeps, eats, and drinks! The style of Rabelais is no less
prodigious than his matter.  His words are of marrow, unctuous, dropping fatness.  He was a
mad wag, the king of good fellows, and prince of practical philosophers!

Rabelais was a Frenchman of the old school--Voltaire of the new. The wit of the one arose from
an exuberance of enjoyment--of the other, from an excess of indifference, real or assumed.
Voltaire had no enthusiasm for one thing or another: he made light of every thing.  In his
hands all things turn to chaff and dross, as the pieces of silver money in the Arabian Nights
were changed by the hands of the enchanter into little dry crumbling leaves! He is a Parisian.
He never exaggerates, is never violent: he treats things with the most provoking sang froid;
and expresses his contempt by the most indirect hints, and in the fewest words, as if he hardly
thought them worth even his contempt.  He retains complete possession of himself and of his
subject. He does not effect his purpose by the eagerness of his blows, but by the delicacy
of his tact.  The poisoned wound he inflicted was so fine, as scarcely to be felt till it rankled
and festered in its "mortal consequences." His callousness was an excellent foil for the antagonists
he had mostly to deal with.  He took knaves and fools on his shield well. He stole away its
cloak from grave imposture.  If he reduced other things below their true value, making them
seem worthless and hollow, he did not degrade the pretensions of tyranny and superstition below
their true value, by making them seem utterly worthless and hollow, as contemptible as they
were odious.  This was the service he rendered to truth and mankind! His Candide is a masterpiece
of wit.  It has been called "the dull product of a scoffer's pen"; it is indeed the "product
of a scoffer's pen"; but after reading the Excursion, few people will think it dull.  It is
in the most perfect keeping, and without any appearance of effort.  Every sentence tells, and
the whole reads like one sentence. There is something sublime in Martin's sceptical indifference
to moral good and evil.  It is the repose of the grave.  It is better to suffer this living
death, than a living martyrdom.  "Nothing can touch him further." The moral of Candide (such
as it is) is the same as that of Rasselas: the execution is different.  Voltaire says, "A great
book is a great evil." Dr. Johnson would have laboured this short apophthegm into a voluminous
common-place.  Voltaire's traveller (in another work) being asked "whether he likes black or
white mutton best," replies that "he is indifferent, provided it is tender." Dr. Johnson did
not get at a conclusion by so short a way as this.  If Voltaire's licentiousness is objected
to me, I say, let it be placed to its true account, the manners of the age and court in which
he lived.  The lords and ladies of the bedchamber in the reign of Louis XV. found no fault
with the immoral tendency of his writings.  Why then should our modern purists quarrel with
them?--But to return.

Young is a gloomy epigrammatist.  He has abused great powers both of thought and language.
His moral reflections are sometimes excellent; but he spoils their beauty by overloading them
with a religious horror, and at the same time giving them all the smart turns and quaint expression
of an enigma or repartee in verse.  The well-known lines on Procrastination are in his best manner:

        "Be wise to-day; 'tis madness to defer;
      Next day the fatal precedent will plead;
      Thus on, till wisdom is push'd out of life.
      Procrastination is the thief of time;
      Year after year it steals, till all are fled,
      And to the mercies of a moment leaves
      The vast concerns of an eternal scene.

        Of man's miraculous mistakes, this bears
      The palm, "That all men are about to live,"
      For ever on the brink of being born.
      All pay themselves the compliment to think
      They, one day, shall not drivel; and their pride
      On this reversion takes up ready praise;
      At least, their own; their future selves applauds;
      How excellent that life they ne'er will lead!
      Time lodg'd in their own hands is Folly's vails:
      That lodg'd in Fate's, to Wisdom they consign;
      The thing they can't but purpose, they postpone.
      'Tis not in Folly, not to scorn a fool;
      And scarce in human Wisdom to do more.
      All Promise is poor dilatory man,
      And that through every stage.  When young, indeed,
      In full content we, sometimes, nobly rest,
      Un-anxious for ourselves; and only wish,
      As duteous sons, our fathers were more wise.
      At thirty man suspects himself a fool;
      Knows it at forty, and reforms his plan;
      At fifty chides his infamous delay,
      Pushes his prudent purpose to Resolve;
      In all the magnanimity of thought
      Resolves, and re-resolves; then dies the same.

        And why?  Because he thinks himself immortal.
      All men think all men mortal, but themselves;
      Themselves, when some alarming shock of fate
      Strikes through their wounded hearts the sudden dread;
      But their hearts wounded, like the wounded air,
      Soon close; where past the shaft, no trace is found.
      As from the wing no scar the sky retains;
      The parted wave no furrow from the keel;
      So dies in human hearts the thought of death.
      Ev'n with the tender tear which nature sheds
      O'er those we love, we drop it in their grave."

His Universal Passion is a keen and powerful satire; but the effort takes from the effect,
and oppresses attention by perpetual and violent demands upon it.  His tragedy of the Revenge
is monkish and scholastic. Zanga is a vulgar caricature of Iago.  The finest lines in it are
the burst of triumph at the end, when his revenge is completed:

      "Let Europe and her pallid sons go weep,
      Let Afric on her hundred thrones rejoice," &c.

Collins is a writer of a very different stamp, who had perhaps less general power of mind than
Young; but he had that true vivida vis, that genuine inspiration, which alone can give birth
to the highest efforts of poetry.  He leaves stings in the minds of his readers, certain traces
of thought and feelings which never wear out, because nature had left them in his own mind.
He is the only one of the minor poets of whom, if he had lived, it cannot be said that he might
not have done the greatest things.  The germ is there.  He is sometimes affected, unmeaning,
and obscure; but he also catches rich glimpses of the bowers of Paradise, and has lofty aspirations
after the highest seats of the Muses.  With a great deal of tinsel and splendid patch-work,
he has not been able to hide the solid sterling ore of genius.  In his best works there is
an attic simplicity, a pathos, and fervour of imagination, which make us the more lament that
the efforts of his mind were at first depressed by neglect and pecuniary embarrassment, and
at length buried in the gloom of an unconquerable and fatal malady.  How many poets have gone
through all the horrors of poverty and contempt, and ended their days in moping melancholy
or moody madness!

      "We poets in our youth begin in gladness,
      But thereof comes in the end despondency and madness."

Is this the fault of themselves, of nature in tempering them of too fine a clay, or of the
world, that spurner of living, and patron of dead merit? Read the account of Collins--with
hopes frustrated, with faculties blighted, at last, when it was too late for himself or others,
receiving the deceitful favours of relenting Fortune, which served only to throw their sunshine
on his decay, and to light him to an early grave.  He was found sitting with every spark of
imagination extinguished, and with only the faint traces of memory and reason left --with only
one book in his room, the Bible; "but that," he said, "was the best." A melancholy damp hung
like an unwholesome mildew upon his faculties--a canker had consumed the flower of his life.
He produced works of genius, and the public regarded them with scorn: he aimed at excellence
that should be his own, and his friends treated his efforts as the wanderings of fatuity. 
The proofs of his capacity are, his Ode on Evening, his Ode on the Passions (particularly the
fine personification of Hope), his Ode to Fear, the Dirge in Cymbeline, the Lines on Thomson's
Grave, and his Eclogues, parts of which are admirable.  But perhaps his Ode on the Poetical
Character is the best of all.  A rich distilled perfume emanates from it like the breath of
genius; a golden cloud envelopes it; a honeyed paste of poetic diction encrusts it, like the
candied coat of the auricula.  His Ode to Evening shews equal genius in the images and versification.
The sounds steal slowly over the ear, like the gradual coming on of evening itself:

      "If aught of oaten stop or pastoral song
      May hope, chaste Eve, to soothe thy modest ear,
          Like thy own solemn springs,
          Thy springs and dying gales,

      O nymph reserv'd, while now the bright-haired sun
      Sits on yon western tent, whose cloudy skirts
          With brede ethereal wove,
          O'erhang his wavy bed:

      Now air is hush'd, save where the weak-ey'd bat,
      With short shrill shriek flits by on leathern wing,
          Or where the beetle winds
          His small but sullen horn,

      As oft he rises midst the twilight path,
      Against the pilgrim borne in heedless hum.
          Now teach me, maid compos'd,
          To breathe some soften'd strain,

      Whose numbers stealing through thy darkling vale
      May not unseemly with its stillness suit,
          As musing slow, I hail
          Thy genial, lov'd return!

      For when thy folding star arising shews
      His paly circlet, at his warning lamp
          The fragrant Hours and Elves
          Who slept in flow'rs the day,

      And many a nymph who wreathes her brows with sedge,
      And sheds the fresh'ning dew, and lovelier still,
          The pensive Pleasures sweet
          Prepare thy shadowy car;

      Then lead, calm Votress, where some sheety lake
      Cheers the lone heath, or some time-hallow'd pile,
          Or upland fallows grey
          Reflect its last cool gleam.

      But when chill blust'ring winds, or driving rain,
      Forbid my willing feet, be mine the hut,
          That from the mountain's side
          Views wilds and swelling floods,

      And hamlets brown, and dim discover'd spires,
      And hears their simple bell, and marks o'er all
          Thy dewy fingers draw
          The gradual dusky veil.

      While Spring shall pour his show'rs, as oft he wont,
      And bathe thy breathing tresses, meekest Eve!
          While Summer loves to sport
          Beneath thy lingering light;

      While sallow Autumn fills thy lap with leaves;
      Or Winter yelling through the troublous air,
          Affrights thy shrinking train,
          And rudely rends thy robes;

      So long, sure-found beneath the sylvan shed,
      Shall Fancy, Friendship, Science, rose-lipp'd Health,
          Thy gentlest influence own,
          And hymn thy favourite name."

Hammond, whose poems are bound up with Collins's, in Bell's pocket edition, was a young gentleman,
who appears to have fallen in love about the year 1740, and who translated Tibullus into English
verse, to let his mistress and the public know of it.

I should conceive that Collins had a much greater poetical genius than Gray: he had more of
that fine madness which is inseparable from it, of its turbid effervescence, of all that pushes
it to the verge of agony or rapture.  Gray's Pindaric Odes are, I believe, generally given
up at present: they are stately and pedantic, a kind of methodical borrowed phrenzy.  But I
cannot so easily give up, nor will the world be in any haste to part with his Elegy in a Country
Church-yard: it is one of the most classical productions that ever was penned by a refined
and thoughtful mind, moralising on human life.  Mr. Coleridge (in his Literary Life) says,
that his friend Mr. Wordsworth had undertaken to shew that the language of the Elegy is unintelligible:
it has, however, been understood! The Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College is more mechanical
and common-place; but it touches on certain strings about the heart, that vibrate in unison
with it to our latest breath.  No one ever passes by Windsor's "stately heights," or sees the
distant spires of Eton College below, without thinking of Gray.  He deserves that we should
think of him; for he thought of others, and turned a trembling, ever-watchful ear to "the still
sad music of humanity."--His Letters are inimitably fine.  If his poems are sometimes finical
and pedantic, his prose is quite free from affectation.  He pours his thoughts out upon paper
as they arise in his mind; and they arise in his mind without pretence, or constraint, from
the pure impulse of learned leisure and contemplative indolence.  He is not here on stilts
or in buckram; but smiles in his easy chair, as he moralises through the loopholes of retreat,
on the bustle and raree-show of the world, or on "those reverend bedlams, colleges and schools!"
He had nothing to do but to read and to think, and to tell his friends what he read and thought.
His life was a luxurious, thoughtful dream.  "Be mine," he says in one of his Letters, "to
read eternal new romances of Marivaux and Crebillon." And in another, to shew his contempt
for action and the turmoils of ambition, he says to someone, "Don't you remember Lords ------
and ------, who are now great statesmen, little dirty boys playing at cricket? For my part,
I do not feel a bit wiser, or bigger, or older than I did then." What an equivalent for not
being wise or great, to be always young! What a happiness never to lose or gain any thing in
the game of human life, by being never any thing more than a looker-on!

How different from Shenstone, who only wanted to be looked at: who withdrew from the world
to be followed by the crowd, and courted popularity by affecting privacy! His Letters shew
him to have lived in a continual fever of petty vanity, and to have been a finished literary
coquet.  He seems always to say, "You will find nothing in the world so amiable as Nature and
me: come, and admire us." His poems are indifferent and tasteless, except his Pastoral Ballad,
his Lines on Jemmy Dawson, and his School-mistress, which last is a perfect piece of writing.

Akenside had in him the materials of poetry, but he was hardly a great poet.  He improved his
Pleasures of the Imagination in the subsequent editions, by pruning away a great many redundances
of style and ornament.  Armstrong is better, though he has not chosen a very exhilarating subject--The
Art of Preserving Health.  Churchill's Satires on the Scotch, and Characters of the Players,
are as good as the subjects deserved--they are strong, coarse, and full of an air of hardened
assurance.  I ought not to pass over without mention Green's Poem on the Spleen, or Dyer's
Grongar Hill.

The principal name of the period we are now come to is that of Goldsmith, than which few names
stand higher or fairer in the annals of modern literature.  One should have his own pen to
describe him as he ought to be described--amiable, various, and bland, with careless inimitable
grace touching on every kind of excellence--with manners unstudied, but a gentle heart--performing
miracles of skill from pure happiness of nature, and whose greatest fault was ignorance of
his own worth.  As a poet, he is the most flowing and elegant of our versifiers since Pope,
with traits of artless nature which Pope had not, and with a peculiar felicity in his turns
upon words, which he constantly repeated with delightful effect: such as--

        "------His lot, though small,
      He sees that little lot, the lot of all."

      *   *   *   *   *

      "And turn'd and look'd, and turn'd to look again."

As a novelist, his Vicar of Wakefield has charmed all Europe.  What reader is there in the
civilised world, who is not the better for the story of the washes which the worthy Dr. Primrose
demolished so deliberately with the poker--for the knowledge of the guinea which the Miss Primroses
kept unchanged in their pockets--the adventure of the picture of the Vicar's family, which
could not be got into the house-- and that of the Flamborough family, all painted with oranges
in their hands--or for the story of the case of shagreen spectacles and the cosmogony?  That
alone is praise enough for it.  Poor Goldsmith! how happy he has made others! how unhappy he
was in himself! He never had the pleasure of reading his own works! He had only the satisfaction
of good-naturedly relieving the necessities of others, and the consolation of being harassed
to death with his own! He is the most amusing and interesting person, in one of the most amusing
and interesting books in the world, Boswell's Life of Johnson.  His peach-coloured coat shall
always bloom in Boswell's writings, and his fame survive in his own!-- His genius was a mixture
of originality and imitation: he could do nothing without some model before him, and he could
copy nothing that he did not adorn with the graces of his own mind.  Almost all the latter
part of the Vicar of Wakefield, and a great deal of the former, is taken from Joseph Andrews;
but the circumstances I have mentioned above are not.

The finest things he has left behind him in verse are his character of a country school-master,
and that prophetic description of Burke in the Retaliation.  His moral Essays in the Citizen
of the World, are as agreeable chit-chat as can be conveyed in the form of didactic discourses.

Warton was a poet and a scholar, studious with ease, learned without affectation.  He had a
happiness which some have been prouder of than he, who deserved it less--he was poet-laureat.

      "And that green wreath which decks the bard when dead,
      That laurel garland crown'd his living head."

But he bore his honours meekly, and performed his half-yearly task regularly.  I should not
have mentioned him for this distinction alone (the highest which a poet can receive from the
state), but for another circumstance; I mean his being the author of some of the finest sonnets
in the language--at least so they appear to me; and as this species of composition has the
necessary advantage of being short (though it is also sometimes both "tedious and brief"),
I will here repeat two or three of them, as treating pleasing subjects in a pleasing and philosophical
way.

      Written in a blank leaf of Dugdale's Monasticon

      "Deem not, devoid of elegance, the sage,
      By Fancy's genuine feelings unbeguil'd,
      Of painful pedantry the poring child;
      Who turns of these proud domes the historic page,
      Now sunk by Time, and Henry's fiercer rage.
      Think'st thou the warbling Muses never smil'd
      On his lone hours?  Ingenuous views engage
      His thoughts, on themes unclassic falsely styl'd,
      Intent.  While cloister'd piety displays
      Her mouldering roll, the piercing eye explores
      New manners, and the pomp of elder days,
      Whence culls the pensive bard his pictur'd stores.
      Not rough nor barren are the winding ways
      Of hoar Antiquity, but strewn with flowers."

      Sonnet.  Written at Stonehenge.

      "Thou noblest monument of Albion's isle,
      Whether, by Merlin's aid, from Scythia's shore
      To Amber's fatal plain Pendragon bore,
      Huge frame of giant hands, the mighty pile,
      T'entomb his Britons slain by Hengist's guile:
      Or Druid priests, sprinkled with human gore,
      Taught mid thy massy maze their mystic lore:
      Or Danish chiefs, enrich'd with savage spoil,
      To victory's idol vast, an unhewn shrine,
      Rear'd the rude heap, or in thy hallow'd ground
      Repose the kings of Brutus' genuine line;
      Or here those kings in solemn state were crown'd;
      Studious to trace thy wondrous origin,
      We muse on many an ancient tale renown'd."

Nothing can be more admirable than the learning here displayed, or the inference from it, that
it is of no use but as it leads to interesting thought and reflection.

That written after seeing Wilton House is in the same style, but I prefer concluding with that
to the river Lodon, which has a personal as well as poetical interest about it.

      "Ah! what a weary race my feet have run,
      Since first I trod thy banks with alders crown'd,
      And thought my way was all through fairy ground,
      Beneath the azure sky and golden sun:
      When first my Muse to lisp her notes begun!
      While pensive memory traces back the round
      Which fills the varied interval between;
      Much pleasure, more of sorrow, marks the scene.--
      Sweet native stream! those skies and suns so pure
      No more return, to cheer my evening road!
      Yet still one joy remains, that not obscure
      Nor useless, all my vacant days have flow'd
      From youth's gay dawn to manhood's prime mature,
      Nor with the Muse's laurel unbestow'd."

I have thus gone through all the names of this period I could think of, but I find that there
are others still waiting behind that I had never thought of.  Here is a list of some of them--Pattison,
Tickell, Hill, Somerville, Browne, Pitt, Wilkie, Dodsley, Shaw, Smart, Langhorne, Bruce, Greame,
Glover, Lovibond, Penrose, Mickle, Jago, Scott, Whitehead, Jenyns, Logan, Cotton, Cunningham,
and Blacklock.--I think it will be best to let them pass and say nothing about them.  It will
be hard to persuade so many respectable persons that they are dull writers, and if we give
them any praise, they will send others.

But here comes one whose claims cannot be so easily set aside: they have been sanctioned by
learning, hailed by genius, and hallowed by misfortune--I mean Chatterton.  Yet I must say
what I think of him, and that is not what is generally thought.  I pass over the disputes between
the learned antiquaries, Dr. Mills, Herbert Croft, and Dr. Knox, whether he was to be placed
after Shakspeare and Dryden, or to come after Shakspeare alone.  A living poet has borne a
better testimony to him--

      "I thought of Chatterton, the marvellous boy,
         The sleepless soul that perished in his pride;
      And him [8] who walked in glory and in joy
         Beside his plough along the mountain side."

I am loth to put asunder whom so great an authority has joined together; but I cannot find
in Chatterton's works any thing so extraordinary as the age at which they were written.  They
have a facility, vigour, and knowledge, which were prodigious in a boy of sixteen, but which
would not have been so in a man of twenty.  He did not shew extraordinary powers of genius,
but extraordinary precocity.  Nor do I believe he would have written better, had he lived.
He knew this himself, or he would have lived.  Great geniuses, like great kings, have too much
to think of to kill themselves; for their mind to them also "a kingdom is." With an unaccountable
power coming over him at an unusual age, and with the youthful confidence it inspired, he performed
wonders, and was willing to set a seal on his reputation by a tragic catastrophe.  He had done
his best; and, like another Empedocles, threw himself into AEtna, to ensure immortality.  The
brazen slippers alone remain!--

[8] Burns.--These lines are taken from the introduction to Mr. Wordsworth's poem of the LEECH-GATHERER.

LECTURE VII. ON BURNS, AND THE OLD ENGLISH BALLADS.

I am sorry that what I said in the conclusion of the last Lecture respecting Chatterton, should
have given dissatisfaction to some persons, with whom I would willingly agree on all such matters.
What I meant was less to call in question Chatterton's genius, than to object to the common
mode of estimating its magnitude by its prematureness.  The lists of fame are not filled with
the dates of births or deaths; and the side-mark of the age at which they were done, wears
out in works destined for immortality.  Had Chatterton really done more, we should have thought
less of him, for our attention would then have been fixed on the excellence of the works themselves,
instead of the singularity of the circumstances in which they were produced.  But because he
attained to the full powers of manhood at an early age, I do not see that he would have attained
to more than those powers, had he lived to be a man. He was a prodigy, because in him the ordinary
march of nature was violently precipitated; and it is therefore inferred, that he would have
continued to hold on his course, "unslacked of motion." On the contrary, who knows but he might
have lived to be poet-laureat? It is much better to let him remain as he was.  Of his actual
productions, any one may think as highly as he pleases; I would only guard against adding to
the account of his quantum meruit, those possible productions by which the learned rhapsodists
of his time raised his gigantic pretensions to an equality with those of Homer and Shakspeare.
It is amusing to read some of these exaggerated descriptions, each rising above the other in
extravagance.  In Anderson's Life, we find that Mr. Warton speaks of him "as a prodigy of genius,"
as "a singular instance of prematurity of abilities": that may be true enough, and Warton was
at any rate a competent judge; but Mr. Malone "believes him to have been the greatest genius
that England has produced since the days of Shakspeare." Dr. Gregory says, "he must rank, as
a universal genius, above Dryden, and perhaps only second to Shakspeare." Mr. Herbert Croft
is still more unqualified in his praises; he asserts, that "no such being, at any period of
life, has ever been known, or possibly ever will be known." He runs a parallel between Chatterton
and Milton; and asserts, that "an army of Macedonian and Swedish mad butchers fly before him,"
meaning, I suppose, that Alexander the Great and Charles the Twelfth were nothing to him; "nor,"
he adds, "does my memory supply me with any human being, who at such an age, with such advantages,
has produced such compositions.  Under the heathen mythology, superstition and admiration would
have explained all, by bringing Apollo on earth; nor would the God ever have descended with
more credit to himself."--Chatterton's physiognomy would at least have enabled him to pass
incognito.  It is quite different from the look of timid wonder and delight with which Annibal
Caracci has painted a young Apollo listening to the first sounds he draws from a Pan's pipe,
under the tutelage of the old Silenus! If Mr. Croft is sublime on the occasion, Dr. Knox is
no less pathetic.  "The testimony of Dr. Knox," says Dr. Anderson, (Essays, p. 144.), "does
equal credit to the classical taste and amiable benevolence of the writer, and the genius and
reputation of Chatterton."  "When I read," says the Doctor, "the researches of those learned
antiquaries who have endeavoured to prove that the poems attributed to Rowley were really written
by him, I observe many ingenious remarks in confirmation of their opinion, which it would be
tedious, if not difficult, to controvert."

Now this is so far from the mark, that the whole controversy might have been settled by any
one but the learned antiquaries themselves, who had the smallest share of their learning, from
this single circumstance, that the poems read as smooth as any modern poems, if you read them
as modern compositions; and that you cannot read them, or make verse of them at all, if you
pronounce or accent the words as they were spoken at the time when the poems were pretended
to have been written.  The whole secret of the imposture, which nothing but a deal of learned
dust, raised by collecting and removing a great deal of learned rubbish, could have prevented
our laborious critics from seeing through, lies on the face of it (to say nothing of the burlesque
air which is scarcely disguised throughout) in the repetition of a few obsolete words, and
in the mis-spelling of common ones.

"No sooner," proceeds the Doctor, "do I turn to the poems, than the labour of the antiquaries
appears only waste of time; and I am involuntarily forced to join in placing that laurel, which
he seems so well to have deserved, on the brow of Chatterton.  The poems bear so many marks
of superior genius, that they have deservedly excited the general attention of polite scholars,
and are considered as the most remarkable productions in modern poetry.  We have many instances
of poetical eminence at an early age; but neither Cowley, Milton, nor Pope, ever produced any
thing while they were boys, which can justly be compared to the poems of Chatterton.  The learned
antiquaries do not indeed dispute their excellence.  They extol it in the highest terms of
applause.  They raise their favourite Rowley to a rivalry with Homer: but they make the very
merits of the works an argument against their real author.  Is it possible, say they, that
a boy should produce compositions so beautiful and masterly? That a common boy should produce
them is not possible," rejoins the Doctor; "but that they should be produced by a boy of an
extraordinary genius, such as was that of Homer or Shakspeare, though a prodigy, is such a
one as by no means exceeds the bounds of rational credibility."

Now it does not appear that Shakspeare or Homer were such early prodigies; so that by this
reasoning he must take precedence of them too, as well as of Milton, Cowley, and Pope.  The
reverend and classical writer then breaks out into the following melancholy raptures:--

      "Unfortunate boy! short and evil were thy days, but thy fame shall
be immortal.  Hadst thou been known to the munificent patrons of
genius . . .
      "Unfortunate boy! poorly wast thou accommodated during thy short
sojourning here among us;--rudely wast thou treated--sorely did thy
feelings suffer from the scorn of the unworthy; and there are at last
those who wish to rob thee of thy only meed, thy posthumous glory.
Severe too are the censures of thy morals.  In the gloomy moments of
despondency, I fear thou hast uttered impious and blasphemous thoughts.
But let thy more rigid censors reflect, that thou wast literally and
strictly but a boy.  Let many of thy bitterest enemies reflect what were
their own religious principles, and whether they had any at the age of
fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen.  Surely it is a severe and an unjust
surmise that thou wouldst probably have ended thy life as a victim to
the laws, if thou hadst not ended it as thou didst."

Enough, enough, of the learned antiquaries, and of the classical and benevolent testimony of
Dr. Knox. Chatterton was, indeed, badly enough off; but he was at least saved from the pain
and shame of reading this woful lamentation over fallen genius, which circulates splendidly
bound in the fourteenth edition, while he is a prey to worms.  As to those who are really capable
of admiring Chatterton's genius, or of feeling an interest in his fate, I would only say, that
I never heard any one speak of any one of his works as if it were an old well-known favourite,
and had become a faith and a religion in his mind.  It is his name, his youth, and what he
might have lived to have done, that excite our wonder and admiration.  He has the same sort
of posthumous fame that an actor of the last age has--an abstracted reputation which is independent
of any thing we know of his works.  The admirers of Collins never think of him without recalling
to their minds his Ode on Evening, or on the Poetical Character.  Gray's Elegy, and his poetical
popularity, are identified together, and inseparable even in imagination.  It is the same with
respect to Burns: when you speak of him as a poet, you mean his works, his Tam o'Shanter, or
his Cotter's Saturday Night.  But the enthusiasts for Chatterton, if you ask for the proofs
of his extraordinary genius, are obliged to turn to the volume, and perhaps find there what
they seek; but it is not in their minds; and it is of that I spoke.  The Minstrel's song in
AElla is I think the best.

      "O! synge untoe my roundelaie,
      O! droppe the brynie teare wythe mee,
      Daunce ne moe atte hallie daie,
      Lycke a rennynge ryver bee.
          Mie love ys dedde,
          Gonne to hys deathe-bedde,
          Al under the wyllowe-tree.

      Black hys cryne as the wyntere nyght,
      Whyte hys rode as the sommer snowe,
      Rodde hys face as the mornynge lyghte,
      Cale he lyes ynne the grave belowe.

      Swote hys tongue as the throstles note,
      Quycke ynne daunce as thought cann bee,
      Defte his taboure, codgelle stote,
      O! hee lys bie the wyllowe-tree.

      Harke! the ravenne flappes hys wynge,
      In the briered dell belowe;
      Harke! the dethe-owle loude dothe synge,
      To the nygthe-mares as theie goe.
          Mie love ys dedde,
          Gone to hys deathe-bedde,
          Al under the wyllowe-tree.

      See! the whyte moone sheenes onne hie;
      Whyterre ys mie true loves shroude;
      Whyterre yanne the mornynge skie,
      Whyterre yanne the evenynge cloude.

      Heere, upon mie true loves grave,
      Schalle the baren fleurs be layde,
      Ne one hallie seyncte to save
      Al the celness of a mayde.
          Mie love ys dedde,
          Gonne to his deathe-bedde,
          Al under the wyllowe-tree.

      Comme, wythe acorne-coppe and thorne,
      Drayne my hartys blodde awaie;
      Lyfe and all yttes goode I scorne,
      Daunce bie nete, or feaste by daie.

      Water wytches, crownede whthe reytes,
      Bere mee to yer leathalle tyde.
      I die; I comme; mie true love waytes.
      Thos the damselle spake, and dyed."

To proceed to the more immediate subject of the present Lecture, the character and writings
of Burns.--Shakspeare says of some one, that "he was like a man made after supper of a cheese-paring."
Burns, the poet, was not such a man.  He had a strong mind, and a strong body, the fellow to
it.  He had a real heart of flesh and blood beating in his bosom-- you can almost hear it throb.
Some one said, that if you had shaken hands with him, his hand would have burnt yours.  The
Gods, indeed, "made him poetical"; but nature had a hand in him first.  His heart was in the
right place.  He did not "create a soul under the ribs of death," by tinkling siren sounds,
or by piling up centos of poetic diction; but for the artificial flowers of poetry, he plucked
the mountain-daisy under his feet; and a field-mouse, hurrying from its ruined dwelling, could
inspire him with the sentiments of terror and pity.  He held the plough or the pen with the
same firm, manly grasp; nor did he cut out poetry as we cut out watch-papers, with finical
dexterity, nor from the same flimsy materials.  Burns was not like Shakspeare in the range
of his genius; but there is something of the same magnanimity, directness, and unaffected character
about him.  He was not a sickly sentimentalist, a namby-pamby poet, a mincing metre ballad-monger,
any more than Shakspeare.  He would as soon hear "a brazen candlestick tuned, or a dry wheel
grate on the axletree." He was as much of a man--not a twentieth part as much of a poet as
Shakspeare.  With but little of his imagination or inventive power, he had the same life of
mind: within the narrow circle of personal feeling or domestic incidents, the pulse of his
poetry flows as healthily and vigorously.  He had an eye to see; a heart to feel:--no more.
His pictures of good fellowship, of social glee, of quaint humour, are equal to any thing;
they come up to nature, and they cannot go beyond it.  The sly jest collected in his laughing
eye at the sight of the grotesque and ludicrous in manners--the large tear rolled down his
manly cheek at the sight of another's distress.  He has made us as well acquainted with himself
as it is possible to be; has let out the honest impulses of his native disposition, the unequal
conflict of the passions in his breast, with the same frankness and truth of description. 
His strength is not greater than his weakness: his virtues were greater than his vices.  His
virtues belonged to his genius: his vices to his situation, which did not correspond to his genius.

It has been usual to attack Burns's moral character, and the moral tendency of his writings
at the same time; and Mr. Wordsworth, in a letter to Mr. Gray, Master of the High School at
Edinburgh, in attempting to defend, has only laid him open to a more serious and unheard-of
responsibility.  Mr. Gray might very well have sent him back, in return for his epistle, the
answer of Holofernes in Love's Labour's Lost:--"Via goodman Dull, thou hast spoken no word
all this while." The author of this performance, which is as weak in effect as it is pompous
in pretension, shews a great dislike of Robespierre, Buonaparte, and of Mr. Jeffrey, whom he,
by some unaccountable fatality, classes together as the three most formidable enemies of the
human race that have appeared in his (Mr. Wordsworth's) remembrance; but he betrays very little
liking to Burns.  He is, indeed, anxious to get him out of the unhallowed clutches of the Edinburgh
Reviewers (as a mere matter of poetical privilege), only to bring him before a graver and higher
tribunal, which is his own; and after repeating and insinuating ponderous charges against him,
shakes his head, and declines giving any opinion in so tremendous a case; so that though the
judgment of the former critic is set aside, poor Burns remains just where he was, and nobody
gains any thing by the cause but Mr. Wordsworth, in an increasing opinion of his own wisdom
and purity.  "Out upon this half-faced fellowship!" The author of the Lyrical Ballads has thus
missed a fine opportunity of doing Burns justice and himself honour.  He might have shewn himself
a philosophical prose-writer, as well as a philosophical poet.  He might have offered as amiable
and as gallant a defence of the Muses, as my uncle Toby, in the honest simplicity of his heart,
did of the army.  He might have said at once, instead of making a parcel of wry faces over
the matter, that Burns had written Tam o'Shanter, and that that alone was enough; that he could
hardly have described the excesses of mad, hairbrained, roaring mirth and convivial indulgence,
which are the soul of it, if he himself had not "drunk full ofter of the ton than of the well"--unless
"the act and practique part of life had been the mistress of his theorique." Mr. Wordsworth
might have quoted such lines as--

      "The landlady and Tam grew gracious,
      Wi' favours secret, sweet, and precious";--

or,

      "Care, mad to see a man so happy,
      E'en drown'd himself among the nappy";--

and fairly confessed that he could not have written such lines from a want of proper habits
and previous sympathy; and that till some great puritanical genius should arise to do these
things equally well without any knowledge of them, the world might forgive Burns the injuries
he had done his health and fortune in his poetical apprenticeship to experience, for the pleasure
he had afforded them.  Instead of this, Mr. Wordsworth hints, that with different personal
habits and greater strength of mind, Burns would have written differently, and almost as well
as he does.  He might have taken that line of Gay's,

      "The fly that sips treacle is lost in the sweets,"--

and applied it in all its force and pathos to the poetical character.  He might have argued
that poets are men of genius, and that a man of genius is not a machine; that they live in
a state of intellectual intoxication, and that it is too much to expect them to be distinguished
by peculiar sang froid, circumspection, and sobriety.  Poets are by nature men of stronger
imagination and keener sensibilities than others; and it is a contradiction to suppose them
at the same time governed only by the cool, dry, calculating dictates of reason and foresight.
Mr. Wordsworth might have ascertained the boundaries that part the provinces of reason and
imagination:--that it is the business of the understanding to exhibit things in their relative
proportions and ultimate consequences--of the imagination to insist on their immediate impressions,
and to indulge their strongest impulses; but it is the poet's office to pamper the imagination
of his readers and his own with the extremes of present ecstacy or agony, to snatch the swift-winged
golden minutes, the torturing hour, and to banish the dull, prosaic, monotonous realities of
life, both from his thoughts and from his practice.  Mr. Wordsworth might have shewn how it
is that all men of genius, or of originality and independence of mind, are liable to practical
errors, from the very confidence their superiority inspires, which makes them fly in the face
of custom and prejudice, always rashly, sometimes unjustly; for, after all, custom and prejudice
are not without foundation in truth and reason, and no one individual is a match for the world
in power, very few in knowledge.  The world may altogether be set down as older and wiser than
any single person in it.

Again, our philosophical letter-writer might have enlarged on the temptations to which Burns
was exposed from his struggles with fortune and the uncertainty of his fate.  He might have
shewn how a poet, not born to wealth or title, was kept in a constant state of feverish anxiety
with respect to his fame and the means of a precarious livelihood: that "from being chilled
with poverty, steeped in contempt, he had passed into the sunshine of fortune, and was lifted
to the very pinnacle of public favour"; yet even there could not count on the continuance of
success, but was, "like the giddy sailor on the mast, ready with every blast to topple down
into the fatal bowels of the deep!" He might have traced his habit of ale-house tippling to
the last long precious draught of his favourite usquebaugh, which he took in the prospect of
bidding farewel for ever to his native land; and his conjugal infidelities to his first disappointment
in love, which would not have happened to him, if he had been born to a small estate in land,
or bred up behind a counter!

Lastly, Mr. Wordsworth might have shewn the incompatibility between the Muses and the Excise,
which never agreed well together, or met in one seat, till they were unaccountably reconciled
on Rydal Mount.  He must know (no man better) the distraction created by the opposite calls
of business and of fancy, the torment of extents, the plague of receipts laid in order or mislaid,
the disagreeableness of exacting penalties or paying the forfeiture; and how all this (together
with the broaching of casks and the splashing of beer-barrels) must have preyed upon a mind
like Burns, with more than his natural sensibility and none of his acquired firmness.

Mr. Coleridge, alluding to this circumstance of the promotion of the Scottish Bard to be "a
gauger of ale-firkins," in a poetical epistle to his friend Charles Lamb, calls upon him in
a burst of heartfelt indignation, to gather a wreath of henbane, nettles, and nightshade,

                         "------To twine
      The illustrious brow of Scotch nobility."

If, indeed, Mr. Lamb had undertaken to write a letter in defence of Burns, how different would
it have been from this of Mr. Wordsworth's! How much better than I can even imagine it to have
been done!

It is hardly reasonable to look for a hearty or genuine defence of Burns from the pen of Mr.
Wordsworth; for there is no common link of sympathy between them.  Nothing can be more different
or hostile than the spirit of their poetry.  Mr. Wordsworth's poetry is the poetry of mere
sentiment and pensive contemplation: Burns's is a very highly sublimated essence of animal
existence.  With Burns, "self-love and social are the same"--

      "And we'll tak a cup of kindness yet,
      For auld lang syne."

Mr. Wordsworth is "himself alone," a recluse philosopher, or a reluctant spectator of the scenes
of many-coloured life; moralising on them, not describing, not entering into them.  Robert
Burns has exerted all the vigour of his mind, all the happiness of his nature, in exalting
the pleasures of wine, of love, and good fellowship: but in Mr. Wordsworth there is a total
disunion and divorce of the faculties of the mind from those of the body; the banns are forbid,
or a separation is austerely pronounced from bed and board--a mensa et thoro.  From the Lyrical
Ballads, it does not appear that men eat or drink, marry or are given in marriage.  If we lived
by every sentiment that proceeded out of mouths, and not by bread or wine, or if the species
were continued like trees (to borrow an expression from the great Sir Thomas Brown), Mr. Wordsworth's
poetry would be just as good as ever.  It is not so with Burns: he is "famous for the keeping
of it up," and in his verse is ever fresh and gay.  For this, it seems, he has fallen under
the displeasure of the Edinburgh Reviewers, and the still more formidable patronage of Mr.
Wordsworth's pen.

      "This, this was the unkindest cut of all."

I was going to give some extracts out of this composition in support of what I have said, but
I find them too tedious.  Indeed (if I may be allowed to speak my whole mind, under correction)
Mr. Wordsworth could not be in any way expected to tolerate or give a favourable interpretation
to Burns's constitutional foibles--even his best virtues are not good enough for him.  He is
repelled and driven back into himself, not less by the worth than by the faults of others.
His taste is as exclusive and repugnant as his genius.  It is because so few things give him
pleasure, that he gives pleasure to so few people.  It is not every one who can perceive the
sublimity of a daisy, or the pathos to be extracted from a withered thorn!

To proceed from Burns's patrons to his poetry, than which no two things can be more different.
His "Twa Dogs" is a very spirited piece of description, both as it respects the animal and
human creation, and conveys a very vivid idea of the manners both of high and low life.  The
burlesque panegyric of the first dog,

      "His locked, lettered, braw brass collar
      Shew'd him the gentleman and scholar"--

reminds one of Launce's account of his dog Crabbe, where he is said, as an instance of his
being in the way of promotion, "to have got among three or four gentleman-like dogs under the
Duke's table." The "Halloween" is the most striking and picturesque description of local customs
and scenery.  The Brigs of Ayr, the Address to a Haggis, Scotch Drink, and innumerable others
are, however, full of the same kind of characteristic and comic painting.  But his master-piece
in this way is his Tam o'Shanter.  I shall give the beginning of it, but I am afraid I shall
hardly know when to leave off.

        "When chapman billies leave the street,
      And drouthy neebors, neebors meet,
      As market-days are wearing late,
      And folk begin to tak the gate;
      While we sit bousing at the nappy,
      And getting fou and unco happy,
      We think na on the lang Scots miles,
      The mosses, waters, slaps, and stiles,
      That lie between us and our hame,
      Whare sits our sulky, sullen dame,
      Gathering her brows like gathering storm,
      Nursing her wrath to keep it warm.

        This truth fand honest Tam o'Shanter,
      As he frae Ayr ae night did canter;
      (Auld Ayr, wham ne'er a town surpasses,
      For honest men and bonny lasses.)

        O Tam! hadst thou but been sae wise,
      As ta'en thy ain wife Kate's advice!
      She tauld thee weel thou was a skellum,
      A blethering, blustering, drunken blellum;
      That frae November till October
      Ae market-day thou was na sober;
      That ilka melder, wi' the miller,
      Thou sat as lang as thou had siller;
      That ev'ry naig was ca'd a shoe on,
      The smith and thee gat roaring fou on;
      That at the Lord's house, ev'n on Sunday,
      Thou drank wi' Kirton Jean till Monday--
      She prophesy'd, that late or soon,
      Thou wad be found deep drown'd in Doon;
      Or catch't wi' warlocks in the mirk,
      By Alloway's auld haunted kirk.

        Ah, gentle dames! it gars me greet,
      To think how mony counsels sweet,
      How mony lengthen'd, sage advices,
      The husband frae the wife despises!

        But to our tale: Ae market night,
      Tam had got planted unco right
      Fast by an ingle, bleezing finely,
      Wi' reaming swats, that drank divinely;
      And at his elbow, Souter Johnny,
      His ancient, trusty, drouthy crony;
      Tam lo'ed him like a vera brither;
      They had been fou for weeks thegither.

        Care, mad to see a man sae happy,
      E'en drown'd himsel amang the nappy;
      As bees flee hame wi' lades o' treasure,
      The minutes wing'd their way wi' pleasure:
      Kings may be blest, but Tam was glorious,
      O'er a' the ills of life victorious!

        But pleasures are like poppies spread,
      You seize the flow'r--its bloom is shed;
      Or like the snow, falls in the river,
      A moment white--then melts for ever;
      Or like the Borealis race,
      That flit ere you can point their place;
      Or like the rainbow's lovely form,
      Evanishing amid the storm.--
      Nae man can tether time or tide,
      The hour approaches, Tam maun ride;
      That hour o' night's black arch the key-stane,
      That dreary hour he mounts his beast in,
      And sic a night he taks the road in,
      As ne'er poor sinner was abroad in.

        The wind blew as 'twad blawn its last;
      The rattling showers rose on the blast,
      The speedy gleams the darkness swallow'd,
      Loud, deep, and lang, the thunder bellow'd:
      That night a child might understand,
      The Deil had business on his hand.

        Weel mounted on his grey mare, Meg,
      A better never lifted leg,
      Tam skelpit on thro' dub and mire,
      Despising wind, and rain, and fire;
      Whiles haulding fast his gude blue bonnet;
      Whiles crooning o'er some auld Scots sonnet;
      Whiles glowring round wi' prudent cares,
      Lest bogles catch him unawares;
      Kirk-Alloway was drawing nigh,
      Whare ghaists and houlets nightly cry.--

        By this time Tam was cross the ford,
      Whare in the snaw, the chapman smoor'd;
      And past the birks and meikle stane,
      Whare drunken Charlie brak's neck-bane;
      And thro' the whins, and by the cairn,
      Where hunters fand the murder'd bairn;
      And near the thorn, aboon the well,
      Whare Mungo's mither hang'd hersel.--
      Before him Doon pours all his floods;
      The doubling storm roars thro' the woods;
      The lightnings flash from pole to pole;
      Near and more near the thunders roll:
      Whan, glimmering thro' the groaning trees,
      Kirk-Alloway seem'd in a bleeze;
      Thro' ilka bore the beams were glancing;
      And loud resounded mirth and dancing.

        Inspiring bold John Barleycorn!
      What dangers thou canst make us scorn!
      Wi' Tippenny, we fear nae evil,
      Wi' Usqueba, we'll face the devil!
      The swats sae ream'd in Tammie's noddle,
      Fair play, he car'd na de'ils a boddle.
      But Maggie stood right sair astonish'd,
      Till by the heel and hand admonish'd,
      She ventur'd forward on the light,
      And, vow! Tam saw an unco sight!
      Warlocks and witches in a dance,
      Nae light cotillion new frae France,
      But hornpipes, jigs, strathspeys, and reels,
      Put life and mettle in their heels.
      As winnock-bunker, in the east,
      There sat auld Nick, in shape o' beast;
      A touzie tyke, black, grim, and large,
      To gie them music was his charge;
      He screw'd the pipes, and gart them skirl,
      Till roof and rafters a' did dirl.--
      Coffins stood round like open presses,
      That shaw'd the dead in their last dresses;
      And, by some devilish cantrip slight,
      Each in its cauld hand held a light--
      By which heroic Tam was able
      To note upon the haly table,
      A murderer's banes in gibbet-airns;
      Twa span-lang, wee, unchristen'd bairns;
      A thief, new cutted frae a rape,
      Wi' his last gasp his gab did gape;
      Five tomahawks, wi' bluid red rusted;
      Five scimitars, wi' murder crusted;
      A garter, which a babe had strangled;
      A knife, a father's throat had mangled,
      Whom his ain son o' life bereft,
      The grey hairs yet stack to the heft;
      Wi' mair, o' horrible and awfu',
      Which e'en to name wad be unlawfu'.

        As Tammie glowr'd amaz'd, and curious,
      The mirth and fun grew fast and furious:
      The Piper loud and louder blew;
      The dancers quick and quicker flew;
      They reel'd, they set, they cross'd, they cleekit,
      Till ilka Carlin swat and reekit,
      And coost her duddies to the wark,
      And linket at it in her sark!

        Now Tam, O Tam! had they been queans
      A' plump and strapping in their teens;
      Their sarks, instead o' creeshie flannen,
      Been snaw-white seventeen hundred linen!
      Thir breeks o' mine, my only pair,
      That ance were plush, o' guid blue hair,
      I wad hae gi'en them aff my hurdies,
      For ae blink o' the bonnie burdies!

        But wither'd beldams, auld and droll,
      Rigwoodie hags wad spean a foal,
      Louping and flinging on a crummock,
      I wonder did na turn thy stomach.

        But Tam ken'd what was what fu' brawly,
      There was ae winsome wench and waly,
      That night enlisted in the core,
      (Lang after ken'd on Carrick shore;
      For mony a beast to dead she shot,
      And perish'd mony a bonnie boat,
      And shook baith meikle corn and bear,
      And kept the country-side in fear--)
      Her cutty sark o' Paisley harn,
      That while a lassie she had worn,
      In longitude tho' sorely scanty,
      It was her best, and she was vaunty.--
      Ah! little ken'd thy reverend grannie,
      That sark she coft for her wee Nannie,
      Wi' twa pund Scots ('twas a' her riches),
      Wad ever grac'd a dance of witches!

        But here my Muse her wing maun cour;
      Sic flights are far beyond her power:
      To sing how Nannie lap and flang,
      (A souple jade she was, and strang)
      And how Tam stood like ane bewitch'd,
      And thought his very een enrich'd;
      Ev'n Satan glowr'd and fidg'd fu' fain,
      And hotch't, and blew wi' might and main;
      Till first ae caper, syne anither,
      Tam tint his reason a' thegither,
      And roars out, "Weel done, Cutty Sark!"
      And in an instant all was dark;
      And scarcely had he Maggie rallied,
      When out the hellish legion sallied.

        As bees biz out wi' angry fyke
      When plundering herds assail their byke;
      As open pussie's mortal foes,
      When, pop! she starts before their nose;
      As eager rins the market-crowd,
      When "Catch the thief!" resounds aloud;
      So Maggie rins--the witches follow,
      Wi' mony an eldritch skreech and hollow,

        Ah, Tam! ah, Tam! thou 'll get thy fairin'!
      In hell they'll roast thee like a herrin'!
      In vain thy Kate awaits thy comin'!
      Kate soon will be a waefu' woman!
      Now, do thy speedy utmost, Meg,
      And win the key-stane o' the brig;
      There, at them thou thy tail may toss,
      A running stream they dare na cross;
      But ere the key-stane she could make,
      The fient a tail she had to shake!
      For Nannie, far before the rest,
      Hard upon noble Maggie prest,
      And flew at Tam wi' furious ettle;
      But little wist she Maggie's mettle--
      Ae spring brought off her master hale,
      But left behind, her ain grey tail:
      The Carlin claught her by the rump,
      And left poor Maggie scarce a stump.

        Now, wha this tale o' truth shall read,
      Ilk man and mother's son tak heed:
      Whane'er to drink you are inclin'd,
      Or Cutty Sarks rin in your mind,
      Think, ye may buy the joys owre dear;
      Remember Tam o' Shanter's mare."

Burns has given the extremes of licentious eccentricity and convivial enjoyment, in the story
of this scape-grace, and of patriarchal simplicity and gravity in describing the old national
character of the Scottish peasantry.  The Cotter's Saturday Night is a noble and pathetic picture
of human manners, mingled with a fine religious awe.  It comes over the mind like a slow and
solemn strain of music.  The soul of the poet aspires from this scene of low-thoughted care,
and reposes, in trembling hope, on "the bosom of its Father and its God." Hardly any thing
can be more touching than the following stanzas, for instance, whether as they describe human
interests, or breathe a lofty devotional spirit.  Those to Captain Grose, and to Davie, a brother
poet, are among the best:--they are "the true pathos and sublime of human life." His prose-letters
are sometimes tinctured with affectation. They seem written by a man who has been admired for
his wit, and is expected on all occasions to shine.  Those in which he expresses his ideas
of natural beauty in reference to Alison's Essay on Taste, and advocates the keeping up the
remembrances of old customs and seasons, are the most powerfully written.  His English serious
odes and moral stanzas are, in general, failures, such as The Lament, Man was made to Mourn,
&c. nor do I much admire his "Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled." In this strain of didactic or
sentimental moralising, the lines to Glencairn are the most happy, and impressive.  His imitations
of the old humorous ballad style of Ferguson's songs are no whit inferior to the admirable
originals, such as "John Anderson, my Joe," and many more.  But of all his productions, the
pathetic and serious love-songs which he has left behind him, in the manner of the old ballads,
are perhaps those which take the deepest and most lasting hold of the mind.  Such are the lines
to Mary Morison, and those entitled Jessy.

      "Here's a health to ane I lo'e dear--
      Here's a health to ane I lo'e dear--
      Thou art sweet as the smile when fond lovers meet,
        And soft as their parting tear--Jessy!

      Altho' thou maun never be mine,
        Altho' even hope is denied;
      'Tis sweeter for thee despairing,
        Than aught in the world beside--Jessy!"

The conclusion of the other is as follows.

      "Yestreen, when to the trembling string
        The dance gaed through the lighted ha',
      To thee my fancy took its wing,
        I sat, but neither heard nor saw.
      Tho' this was fair, and that was bra',
        And yon the toast of a' the town,
      I sighed and said among them a',
        Ye are na' Mary Morison."

That beginning, "Oh gin my love were a bonny red rose," is a piece of rich and fantastic description.
One would think that nothing could surpass these in beauty of expression, and in true pathos:
and nothing does or can, but some of the old Scotch ballads themselves.  There is in them a
still more original cast of thought, a more romantic imagery-- the thistle's glittering down,
the gilliflower on the old garden-wall, the horseman's silver bells, the hawk on its perch--a
closer intimacy with nature, a firmer reliance on it, as the only stock of wealth which the
mind has to resort to, a more infantine simplicity of manners, a greater strength of affection,
hopes longer cherished and longer deferred, sighs that the heart dare hardly heave, and "thoughts
that often lie too deep for tears." We seem to feel that those who wrote and sung them (the
early minstrels) lived in the open air, wandering on from place to place with restless feet
and thoughts, and lending an ever-open ear to the fearful accidents of war or love, floating
on the breath of old tradition or common fame, and moving the strings of their harp with sounds
that sank into a nation's heart.  How fine an illustration of this is that passage in Don Quixote,
where the knight and Sancho, going in search of Dulcinea, inquire their way of the countryman,
who was driving his mules to plough before break of day, "singing the ancient ballad of Roncesvalles."
Sir Thomas Overbury describes his country girl as still accompanied with fragments of old songs.
One of the best and most striking descriptions of the effects of this mixture of national poetry
and music is to be found in one of the letters of Archbishop Herring, giving an account of
a confirmation-tour in the mountains of Wales.

      "That pleasure over, our work became very arduous, for we were to
mount a rock, and in many places of the road, over natural stairs of
stone.  I submitted to this, which they told me was but a taste of the
country, and to prepare me for worse things to come.  However, worse
things did not come that morning, for we dined soon after out of our own
wallets; and though our inn stood in a place of the most frightful
solitude, and the best formed for the habitation of monks (who once
possessed it) in the world, yet we made a cheerful meal.  The novelty of
the thing gave me spirits, and the air gave me appetite much keener than
the knife I ate with.  We had our music too; for there came in a harper,
who soon drew about us a group of figures that Hogarth would have given
any price for.  The harper was in his true place and attitude; a man and
woman stood before him, singing to his instrument wildly, but not
disagreeably; a little dirty child was playing with the bottom of the
harp; a woman in a sick night-cap hanging over the stairs; a boy with
crutches fixed in a staring attention, and a girl carding wool in the
chimney, and rocking a cradle with her naked feet, interrupted in her
business by the charms of the music; all ragged and dirty, and all
silently attentive.  These figures gave us a most entertaining picture,
and would please you or any man of observation; and one reflection gave
me a particular comfort, that the assembly before us demonstrated, that
even here, the influential sun warmed poor mortals, and inspired them
with love and music."

I could wish that Mr. Wilkie had been recommended to take this group as the subject of his
admirable pencil; he has painted a picture of Bathsheba, instead.

In speaking of the old Scotch ballads, I need do no more than mention the name of Auld Robin
Gray.  The effect of reading this old ballad is as if all our hopes and fears hung upon the
last fibre of the heart, and we felt that giving way.  What silence, what loneliness, what
leisure for grief and despair!

      "My father pressed me sair,
        Though my mother did na' speak;
      But she looked in my face
        Till my heart was like to break."

The irksomeness of the situations, the sense of painful dependence, is excessive; and yet the
sentiment of deep-rooted, patient affection triumphs over all, and is the only impression that
remains.  Lady Ann Bothwell's Lament is not, I think, quite equal to the lines beginning--

      "O waly, waly, up the bank,
        And waly, waly, down the brae,
      And waly, waly, yon burn side,
        Where I and my love wont to gae.
      I leant my back unto an aik,
        I thought it was a trusty tree;
      But first it bow'd, and syne it brak,
        Sae my true-love's forsaken me.

      O waly, waly, love is bonny,
        A little time while it is new;
      But when its auld, it waxeth cauld,
        And fades awa' like the morning dew.
      When cockle-shells turn siller bells,
        And muscles grow on every tree,
      Whan frost and snaw sall warm us aw,
        Then sall my love prove true to me.

      Now Arthur seat sall be my bed,
        The sheets sall ne'er be fyld by me:
      Saint Anton's well sall be my drink,
        Since my true-love's forsaken me.
      Martinmas wind, when wilt thou blaw,
        And shake the green leaves aff the tree?
      O gentle death, whan wilt thou cum,
        And tak' a life that wearies me!

      'Tis not the frost that freezes sae,
        Nor blawing snaw's inclemencie,
      'Tis not sic cauld, that makes me cry,
        But my love's heart grown cauld to me.
      Whan we came in by Glasgow town,
        We were a comely sight to see,
      My love was clad in black velvet,
        And I myself in cramasie.

      But had I wist before I kist,
        That love had been sae hard to win;
      I'd lockt my heart in case of gowd,
        And pinn'd it with a siller pin.
      And oh! if my poor babe were born,
        And set upon the nurse's knee,
      And I mysel in the cold grave!
        Since my true-love 's forsaken me."

The finest modern imitation of this style is the Braes of Yarrow; and perhaps the finest subject
for a story of the same kind in any modern book, is that told in Turner's History of England,
of a Mahometan woman, who having fallen in love with an English merchant, the father of Thomas
a Becket, followed him all the way to England, knowing only the word London, and the name of
her lover, Gilbert.

But to have done with this, which is rather too serious a subject.-- The old English ballads
are of a gayer and more lively turn. They are adventurous and romantic; but they relate chiefly
to good living and good fellowship, to drinking and hunting scenes.  Robin Hood is the chief
of these, and he still, in imagination, haunts Sherwood Forest.  The archers green glimmer
under the waving branches; the print on the grass remains where they have just finished their
noon-tide meal under the green-wood tree; and the echo of their bugle-horn and twanging bows
resounds through the tangled mazes of the forest, as the tall slim deer glances startled by.

      "The trees in Sherwood Forest are old and good;
        The grass beneath them now is dimly green:
        Are they deserted all?  Is no young mien,
      With loose-slung bugle, met within the wood?

      No arrow found--foil'd of its antler'd food--
        Struck in the oak's rude side?--Is there nought seen
        To mark the revelries which there have been,
      In the sweet days of merry Robin Hood?

      Go there with summer, and with evening--go
        In the soft shadows, like some wand'ring man--
        And thou shalt far amid the forest know
      The archer-men in green, with belt and bow,
        Feasting on pheasant, river-fowl, and swan,
        With Robin at their head, and Marian." [9]

[9] Sonnet on Sherwood Forest, by J.H. Reynolds, Esq.

LECTURE VIII. ON THE LIVING POETS.

      "No more of talk where God or Angel guest
      With man, as with his friend, familiar us'd
      To sit indulgent."------

Genius is the heir of fame; but the hard condition on which the bright reversion must be earned
is the loss of life.  Fame is the recompense not of the living, but of the dead.  The temple
of fame stands upon the grave: the flame that burns upon its altars is kindled from the ashes
of great men.  Fame itself is immortal, but it is not begot till the breath of genius is extinguished.
For fame is not popularity, the shout of the multitude, the idle buzz of fashion, the venal
puff, the soothing flattery of favour or of friendship; but it is the spirit of a man surviving
himself in the minds and thoughts of other men, undying and imperishable.  It is the power
which the intellect exercises over the intellect, and the lasting homage which is paid to it,
as such, independently of time and circumstances, purified from partiality and evil-speaking.
It is not the direct and gross homage paid to himself, that the lover of true fame seeks or
is proud of; but the indirect and pure homage paid to the eternal forms of truth and beauty
as they are reflected in his mind, that gives him confidence and hope.  The love of nature
is the first thing in the mind of the true poet: the admiration of himself the last. A man
of genius cannot well be a coxcomb; for his mind is too full of other things to be much occupied
with his own person.  He who is conscious of great powers in himself, has also a high standard
of excellence with which to compare his efforts: he appeals also to a test and judge of merit,
which is the highest, but which is too remote, grave, and impartial, to flatter his self-love
extravagantly, or puff him up with intolerable and vain conceit.  This, indeed, is one test
of genius and of real greatness of mind, whether a man can wait patiently and calmly for the
award of posterity, satisfied with the unwearied exercise of his faculties, retired within
the sanctuary of his own thoughts; or whether he is eager to forestal his own immortality,
and mortgage it for a newspaper puff.  He who thinks much of himself, will be in danger of
being forgotten by the rest of the world: he who is always trying to lay violent hands on reputation,
will not secure the best and most lasting.  If the restless candidate for praise takes no pleasure,
no sincere and heartfelt delight in his works, but as they are admired and applauded by others,
what should others see in them to admire or applaud? They cannot be expected to admire them
because they are his; but for the truth and nature contained in them, which must first be inly
felt and copied with severe delight, from the love of truth and nature, before it can ever
appear there.  Was Raphael, think you, when he painted his pictures of the Virgin and Child
in all their inconceivable truth and beauty of expression, thinking most of his subject or
of himself? Do you suppose that Titian, when he painted a landscape, was pluming himself on
being thought the finest colourist in the world, or making himself so by looking at nature?
Do you imagine that Shakspeare, when he wrote Lear or Othello, was thinking of any thing but
Lear and Othello? Or that Mr. Kean, when he plays these characters, is thinking of the audience?--No:
he who would be great in the eyes of others, must first learn to be nothing in his own.  The
love of fame, as it enters at times into his mind, is only another name for the love of excellence;
or it is the ambition to attain the highest excellence, sanctioned by the highest authority--that
of time.

Those minds, then, which are the most entitled to expect it, can best put up with the postponement
of their claims to lasting fame.  They can afford to wait.  They are not afraid that truth
and nature will ever wear out; will lose their gloss with novelty, or their effect with fashion.
If their works have the seeds of immortality in them, they will live; if they have not, they
care little about them as theirs.  They do not complain of the start which others have got
of them in the race of everlasting renown, or of the impossibility of attaining the honours
which time alone can give, during the term of their natural lives.  They know that no applause,
however loud and violent, can anticipate or over-rule the judgment of posterity; that the opinion
of no one individual, nor of any one generation, can have the weight, the authority (to say
nothing of the force of sympathy and prejudice), which must belong to that of successive generations.
The brightest living reputation cannot be equally imposing to the imagination, with that which
is covered and rendered venerable with the hoar of innumerable ages.  No modern production
can have the same atmosphere of sentiment around it, as the remains of classical antiquity.
But then our moderns may console themselves with the reflection, that they will be old in their
turn, and will either be remembered with still increasing honours, or quite forgotten!

I would speak of the living poets as I have spoken of the dead (for I think highly of many
of them); but I cannot speak of them with the same reverence, because I do not feel it; with
the same confidence, because I cannot have the same authority to sanction my opinion.  I cannot
be absolutely certain that any body, twenty years hence, will think any thing about any of
them; but we may be pretty sure that Milton and Shakspeare will be remembered twenty years
hence.  We are, therefore, not without excuse if we husband our enthusiasm a little, and do
not prematurely lay out our whole stock in untried ventures, and what may turn out to be false
bottoms.  I have myself out-lived one generation of favourite poets, the Darwins, the Hayleys,
the Sewards.  Who reads them now?--If, however, I have not the verdict of posterity to bear
me out in bestowing the most unqualified praises on their immediate successors, it is also
to be remembered, that neither does it warrant me in condemning them.  Indeed, it was not my
wish to go into this ungrateful part of the subject; but something of the sort is expected
from me, and I must run the gauntlet as well as I can.  Another circumstance that adds to the
difficulty of doing justice to all parties is, that I happen to have had a personal acquaintance
with some of these jealous votaries of the Muses; and that is not the likeliest way to imbibe
a high opinion of the rest.  Poets do not praise one another in the language of hyperbole.
I am afraid, therefore, that I labour under a degree of prejudice against some of the most
popular poets of the day, from an early habit of deference to the critical opinions of some
of the least popular.  I cannot say that I ever learnt much about Shakspeare or Milton, Spenser
or Chaucer, from these professed guides; for I never heard them say much about them.  They
were always talking of themselves and one another.  Nor am I certain that this sort of personal
intercourse with living authors, while it takes away all real relish or freedom of opinion
with regard to their contemporaries, greatly enhances our respect for themselves.  Poets are
not ideal beings; but have their prose-sides, like the commonest of the people.  We often hear
persons say, What they would have given to have seen Shakspeare! For my part, I would give
a great deal not to have seen him; at least, if he was at all like any body else that I have
ever seen.  But why should he; for his works are not! This is, doubtless, one great advantage
which the dead have over the living.  It is always fortunate for ourselves and others, when
we are prevented from exchanging admiration for knowledge.  The splendid vision that in youth
haunts our idea of the poetical character, fades, upon acquaintance, into the light of common
day; as the azure tints that deck the mountain's brow are lost on a nearer approach to them.
It is well, according to the moral of one of the Lyrical Ballads,--"To leave Yarrow unvisited."
But to leave this "face-making," and begin.--

I am a great admirer of the female writers of the present day; they appear to me like so many
modern Muses.  I could be in love with Mrs. Inchbald, romantic with Mrs. Radcliffe, and sarcastic
with Madame D'Arblay: but they are novel-writers, and, like Audrey, may "thank the Gods for
not having made them poetical." Did any one here ever read Mrs. Leicester's School? If they
have not, I wish they would; there will be just time before the next three volumes of the Tales
of My Landlord come out.  That is not a school of affectation, but of humanity.  No one can
think too highly of the work, or highly enough of the author.

The first poetess I can recollect is Mrs. Barbauld, with whose works I became acquainted before
those of any other author, male or female, when I was learning to spell words of one syllable
in her story-books for children.  I became acquainted with her poetical works long after in
Enfield's Speaker; and remember being much divided in my opinion at that time, between her
Ode to Spring and Collins's Ode to Evening.  I wish I could repay my childish debt of gratitude
in terms of appropriate praise.  She is a very pretty poetess; and, to my fancy, strews the
flowers of poetry most agreeably round the borders of religious controversy.  She is a neat
and pointed prose-writer.  Her "Thoughts on the Inconsistency of Human Expectations," is one
of the most ingenious and sensible essays in the language.  There is the same idea in one of
Barrow's Sermons.

Mrs. Hannah More is another celebrated modern poetess, and I believe still living.  She has
written a great deal which I have never read.

Miss Baillie must make up this trio of female poets.  Her tragedies and comedies, one of each
to illustrate each of the passions, separately from the rest, are heresies in the dramatic
art.  She is a Unitarian in poetry.  With her the passions are, like the French republic, one
and indivisible: they are not so in nature, or in Shakspeare.  Mr. Southey has, I believe,
somewhere expressed an opinion, that the Basil of Miss Baillie is superior to Romeo and Juliet.
I shall not stay to contradict him.  On the other hand, I prefer her De Montfort, which was
condemned on the stage, to some later tragedies, which have been more fortunate--to the Remorse,
Bertram, and lastly, Fazio.  There is in the chief character of that play a nerve, a continued
unity of interest, a setness of purpose and precision of outline which John Kemble alone was
capable of giving; and there is all the grace which women have in writing.  In saying that
De Montfort was a character which just suited Mr. Kemble, I mean to pay a compliment to both.
He was not "a man of no mark or likelihood": and what he could be supposed to do particularly
well, must have a meaning in it.  As to the other tragedies just mentioned, there is no reason
why any common actor should not "make mouths in them at the invisible event,"--one as well
as another.  Having thus expressed my sense of the merits of this authoress, I must add, that
her comedy of the Election, performed last summer at the Lyceum with indifferent success, appears
to me the perfection of baby-house theatricals.  Every thing in it has such a do-me-good air,
is so insipid and amiable. Virtue seems such a pretty playing at make-believe, and vice is
such a naughty word.  It is a theory of some French author, that little girls ought not to
be suffered to have dolls to play with, to call them pretty dears, to admire their black eyes
and cherry cheeks, to lament and bewail over them if they fall down and hurt their faces, to
praise them when they are good, and scold them when they are naughty.  It is a school of affectation:
Miss Baillie has profited of it.  She treats her grown men and women as little girls treat
their dolls--makes moral puppets of them, pulls the wires, and they talk virtue and act vice,
according to their cue and the title prefixed to each comedy or tragedy, not from any real
passions of their own, or love either of virtue or vice.

The transition from these to Mr. Rogers's Pleasures of Memory, is not far: he is a very lady-like
poet.  He is an elegant, but feeble writer. He wraps up obvious thoughts in a glittering cover
of fine words; is full of enigmas with no meaning to them; is studiously inverted, and scrupulously
far-fetched; and his verses are poetry, chiefly because no particle, line, or syllable of them
reads like prose.  He differs from Milton in this respect, who is accused of having inserted
a number of prosaic lines in Paradise Lost.  This kind of poetry, which is a more minute and
inoffensive species of the Della Cruscan, is like the game of asking what one's thoughts are
like.  It is a tortuous, tottering, wriggling, fidgetty translation of every thing from the
vulgar tongue, into all the tantalizing, teasing, tripping, lisping mimminee-pimminee of the
highest brilliancy and fashion of poetical diction.  You have nothing like truth of nature
or simplicity of expression.  The fastidious and languid reader is never shocked by meeting,
from the rarest chance in the world, with a single homely phrase or intelligible idea.  You
cannot see the thought for the ambiguity of the language, the figure for the finery, the picture
for the varnish.  The whole is refined, and frittered away into an appearance of the most evanescent
brilliancy and tremulous imbecility.--There is no other fault to be found with the Pleasures
of Memory, than a want of taste and genius.  The sentiments are amiable, and the notes at the
end highly interesting, particularly the one relating to the Countess Pillar (as it is called)
between Appleby and Penrith, erected (as the inscription tells the thoughtful traveller) by
Anne Countess of Pembroke, in the year 1648, in memory of her last parting with her good and
pious mother in the same place in the year 1616--

      "To shew that power of love, how great
      Beyond all human estimate."

This story is also told in the poem, but with so many artful innuendos and tinsel words, that
it is hardly intelligible; and still less does it reach the heart.

Campbell's Pleasures of Hope is of the same school, in which a painful attention is paid to
the expression in proportion as there is little to express, and the decomposition of prose
is substituted for the composition of poetry.  How much the sense and keeping in the ideas
are sacrificed to a jingle of words and epigrammatic turn of expression, may be seen in such
lines as the following:--one of the characters, an old invalid, wishes to end his days under

      "Some hamlet shade, to yield his sickly form
      Health in the breeze, and shelter in the storm."

Now the antithesis here totally fails: for it is the breeze, and not the tree, or as it is
quaintly expressed, hamlet shade, that affords health, though it is the tree that affords shelter
in or from the storm. Instances of the same sort of curiosa infelicitas are not rare in this
author.  His verses on the Battle of Hohenlinden have considerable spirit and animation.  His
Gertrude of Wyoming is his principal performance.  It is a kind of historical paraphrase of
Mr. Wordsworth's poem of Ruth.  It shews little power, or power enervated by extreme fastidiousness.
It is

             "------Of outward show
      Elaborate; of inward less exact."

There are painters who trust more to the setting of their pictures than to the truth of the
likeness.  Mr. Campbell always seems to me to be thinking how his poetry will look when it
comes to be hot-pressed on superfine wove paper, to have a disproportionate eye to points and
commas, and dread of errors of the press.  He is so afraid of doing wrong, of making the smallest
mistake, that he does little or nothing. Lest he should wander irretrievably from the right
path, he stands still.  He writes according to established etiquette.  He offers the Muses
no violence.  If he lights upon a good thought, he immediately drops it for fear of spoiling
a good thing.  When he launches a sentiment that you think will float him triumphantly for
once to the bottom of the stanza, he stops short at the end of the first or second line, and
stands shivering on the brink of beauty, afraid to trust himself to the fathomless abyss. 
Tutus nimium, timidusque procellarum.  His very circumspection betrays him.  The poet, as well
as the woman, that deliberates, is undone.  He is much like a man whose heart fails him just
as he is going up in a balloon, and who breaks his neck by flinging himself out of it when
it is too late.  Mr. Campbell too often maims and mangles his ideas before they are full formed,
to fit them to the Procustes' bed of criticism; or strangles his intellectual offspring in
the birth, lest they should come to an untimely end in the Edinburgh Review.  He plays the
hypercritic on himself, and starves his genius to death from a needless apprehension of a plethora.
No writer who thinks habitually of the critics, either to tremble at their censures or set
them at defiance, can write well.  It is the business of reviewers to watch poets, not of poets
to watch reviewers.--There is one admirable simile in this poem, of the European child brought
by the sooty Indian in his hand, "like morning brought by night." The love-scenes in Gertrude
of Wyoming breathe a balmy voluptuousness of sentiment; but they are generally broken off in
the middle; they are like the scent of a bank of violets, faint and rich, which the gale suddenly
conveys in a different direction.  Mr. Campbell is careful of his own reputation, and economical
of the pleasures of his readers.  He treats them as the fox in the fable treated his guest
the stork; or, to use his own expression, his fine things are

      "Like angels' visits, few, and far between." [10]

There is another fault in this poem, which is the mechanical structure of the fable.  The most
striking events occur in the shape of antitheses. The story is cut into the form of a parallelogram.
There is the same systematic alternation of good and evil, of violence and repose, that there
is of light and shade in a picture.  The Indian, who is the chief agent in the interest of
the poem, vanishes and returns after long intervals, like the periodical revolutions of the
planets.  He unexpectedly appears just in the nick of time, after years of absence, and without
any known reason but the convenience of the author and the astonishment of the reader; as if
nature were a machine constructed on a principle of complete contrast, to produce a theatrical
effect.  Nec Deus intersit, nisi dignus vindice nodus.  Mr. Campbell's savage never appears
but upon great occasions, and then his punctuality is preternatural and alarming.  He is the
most wonderful instance on record of poetical reliability.  The most dreadful mischiefs happen
at the most mortifying moments; and when your expectations are wound up to the highest pitch,
you are sure to have them knocked on the head by a premeditated and remorseless stroke of the
poet's pen.  This is done so often for the convenience of the author, that in the end it ceases
to be for the satisfaction of the reader.

[10] There is the same idea in Blair's Grave.

                            "------Its visits,
      Like those of angels, short, and far between."

Mr. Campbell in altering the expression has  spoiled it.  "Few," and "far between," are the
same thing.

Tom Moore is a poet of a quite different stamp.  He is as heedless, gay, and prodigal of his
poetical wealth, as the other is careful, reserved, and parsimonious.  The genius of both is
national.  Mr. Moore's Muse is another Ariel, as light, as tricksy, as indefatigable, and as
humane a spirit.  His fancy is for ever on the wing, flutters in the gale, glitters in the
sun.  Every thing lives, moves, and sparkles in his poetry, while over all love waves his purple
light.  His thoughts are as restless, as many, and as bright as the insects that people the
sun's beam.  "So work the honey-bees," extracting liquid sweets from opening buds; so the butterfly
expands its wings to the idle air; so the thistle's silver down is wafted over summer seas.
An airy voyager on life's stream, his mind inhales the fragrance of a thousand shores, and
drinks of endless pleasures under halcyon skies.  Wherever his footsteps tend over the enamelled
ground of fairy fiction--

      "Around him the bees in play flutter and cluster,
      And gaudy butterflies frolic around."

The fault of Mr. Moore is an exuberance of involuntary power.  His facility of production lessens
the effect of, and hangs as a dead weight upon, what he produces.  His levity at last oppresses.
The infinite delight he takes in such an infinite number of things, creates indifference in
minds less susceptible of pleasure than his own.  He exhausts attention by being inexhaustible.
His variety cloys; his rapidity dazzles and distracts the sight.  The graceful ease with which
he lends himself to every subject, the genial spirit with which he indulges in every sentiment,
prevents him from giving their full force to the masses of things, from connecting them into
a whole.  He wants intensity, strength, and grandeur.  His mind does not brood over the great
and permanent; it glances over the surfaces, the first impressions of things, instead of grappling
with the deep-rooted prejudices of the mind, its inveterate habits, and that  "perilous stuff
that weighs upon the heart." His pen, as it is rapid and fanciful, wants momentum and passion.
It requires the same principle to make us thoroughly like poetry, that makes us like ourselves
so well, the feeling of continued identity.  The impressions of Mr. Moore's poetry are detached,
desultory, and physical.  Its gorgeous colours brighten and fade like the rainbow's. Its sweetness
evaporates like the effluvia exhaled from beds of flowers! His gay laughing style, which relates
to the immediate pleasures of love or wine, is better than his sentimental and romantic vein.
His Irish melodies are not free from affectation and a certain sickliness of pretension.  His
serious descriptions are apt to run into flowery tenderness.  His pathos sometimes melts into
a mawkish sensibility, or crystallizes into all the prettinesses of allegorical language, and
glittering hardness of external imagery.  But he has wit at will, and of the first quality.
His satirical and burlesque poetry is his best: it is first-rate.  His Twopenny Post-Bag is
a perfect "nest of spicery"; where the Cayenne is not spared.  The politician there sharpens
the poet's pen. In this too, our bard resembles the bee--he has its honey and its sting.

Mr. Moore ought not to have written Lalla Rookh, even for three thousand guineas.  His fame
is worth more than that.  He should have minded the advice of Fadladeen.  It is not, however,
a failure, so much as an evasion and a consequent disappointment of public expectation.  He
should have left it to others to break conventions with nations, and faith with the world.
He should, at any rate, have kept his with the public.  Lalla Rookh is not what people wanted
to see whether Mr. Moore could do; namely, whether he could write a long epic poem.  It is
four short tales.  The interest, however, is often high-wrought and tragic, but the execution
still turns to the effeminate and voluptuous side. Fortitude of mind is the first requisite
of a tragic or epic writer. Happiness of nature and felicity of genius are the pre-eminent
characteristics of the bard of Erin.  If he is not perfectly contented with what he is, all
the world beside is.  He had no temptation to risk any thing in adding to the love and admiration
of his age, and more than one country.

      "Therefore to be possessed with double pomp,
      To guard a title that was rich before,
      To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
      To throw a perfume on the violet,
      To smooth the ice, or add another hue
      Unto the rainbow, or with taper light
      To seek the beauteous eye of heav'n to garnish,
      Is wasteful and ridiculous excess."

The same might be said of Mr. Moore's seeking to bind an epic crown, or the shadow of one,
round his other laurels.

If Mr. Moore has not suffered enough personally, Lord Byron (judging from the tone of his writings)
might be thought to have suffered too much to be a truly great poet.  If Mr. Moore lays himself
too open to all the various impulses of things, the outward shews of earth and sky, to every
breath that blows, to every stray sentiment that crosses his fancy; Lord Byron shuts himself
up too much in the impenetrable gloom of his own thoughts, and buries the natural light of
things in "nook monastic." The Giaour, the Corsair, Childe Harold, are all the same person,
and they are apparently all himself.  The everlasting repetition of one subject, the same dark
ground of fiction, with the darker colours of the poet's mind spread over it, the unceasing
accumulation of horrors on horror's head, steels the mind against the sense of pain, as inevitably
as the unwearied Siren sounds and luxurious monotony of Mr. Moore's poetry make it inaccessible
to pleasure.  Lord Byron's poetry is as morbid as Mr. Moore's is careless and dissipated. 
He has more depth of passion, more force and impetuosity, but the passion is always of the
same unaccountable character, at once violent and sullen, fierce and gloomy.  It is not the
passion of a mind struggling with misfortune, or the hopelessness of its desires, but of a
mind preying upon itself, and disgusted with, or indifferent to all other things.  There is
nothing less poetical than this sort of unaccommodating selfishness.  There is nothing more
repulsive than this sort of ideal absorption of all the interests of others, of the good and
ills of life, in the ruling passion and moody abstraction of a single mind, as if it would
make itself the centre of the universe, and there was nothing worth cherishing but its intellectual
diseases.  It is like a cancer, eating into the heart of poetry.  But still there is power;
and power rivets attention and forces admiration.  "He hath a demon:" and that is the next
thing to being full of the God.  His brow collects the scattered gloom: his eye flashes livid
fire that withers and consumes.  But still we watch the progress of the scathing bolt with
interest, and mark the ruin it leaves behind with awe.  Within the contracted range of his
imagination, he has great unity and truth of keeping.  He chooses elements and agents congenial
to his mind, the dark and glittering ocean, the frail bark hurrying before the storm, pirates
and men that "house on the wild sea with wild usages." He gives the tumultuous eagerness of
action, and the fixed despair of thought.  In vigour of style and force of conception, he in
one sense surpasses every writer of the present day.  His indignant apothegms are like oracles
of misanthropy.  He who wishes for "a curse to kill with," may find it in Lord Byron's writings.
Yet he has beauty lurking underneath his strength, tenderness sometimes joined with the phrenzy
of despair.  A flash of golden light sometimes follows from a stroke of his pencil, like a
falling meteor.  The flowers that adorn his poetry bloom over charnel-houses and the grave!

There is one subject on which Lord Byron is fond of writing, on which I wish he would not write--Buonaparte.
Not that I quarrel with his writing for him, or against him, but with his writing both for
him and against him.  What right has he to do this? Buonaparte's character, be it what else
it may, does not change every hour according to his Lordship's varying humour.  He is not a
pipe for Fortune's finger, or for his Lordship's Muse, to play what stop she pleases on.  Why
should Lord Byron now laud him to the skies in the hour of his success, and then peevishly
wreak his disappointment on the God of his idolatry? The man he writes of does not rise or
fall with circumstances: but "looks on tempests and is never shaken." Besides, he is a subject
for history, and not for poetry.

      "Great princes' favourites their fair leaves spread,
        But as the marigold at the sun's eye,
      And in themselves their pride lies buried;
        For at a frown they in their glory die.
      The painful warrior, famoused for fight,
        After a thousand victories once foil'd,
      Is from the book of honour razed quite,
        And all the rest forgot for which he toil'd."

If Lord Byron will write any thing more on this hazardous theme, let him take these lines of
Shakspeare for his guide, and finish them in the spirit of the original--they will then be
worthy of the subject.

Walter Scott is the most popular of all the poets of the present day, and deservedly so.  He
describes that which is most easily and generally understood with more vivacity and effect
than any body else.  He has no excellences, either of a lofty or recondite kind, which lie
beyond the reach of the most ordinary capacity to find out; but he has all the good qualities
which all the world agree to understand.  His style is clear, flowing, and transparent: his
sentiments, of which his style is an easy and natural medium, are common to him with his readers.
He has none of Mr. Wordsworth's idiosyncracy.  He differs from his readers only in a greater
range of knowledge and facility of expression.  His poetry belongs to the class of improvisatori
poetry.  It has neither depth, height, nor breadth in it; neither uncommon strength, nor uncommon
refinement of thought, sentiment, or language.  It has no originality. But if this author has
no research, no moving power in his own breast, he relies with the greater safety and success
on the force of his subject.  He selects a story such as is sure to please, full of incidents,
characters, peculiar manners, costume, and scenery; and he tells it in a way that can offend
no one.  He never wearies or disappoints you.  He is communicative and garrulous; but he is
not his own hero.  He never obtrudes himself on your notice to prevent your seeing the subject.
What passes in the poem, passes much as it would have done in reality.  The author has little
or nothing to do with it. Mr. Scott has great intuitive power of fancy, great vividness of
pencil in placing external objects and events before the eye.  The force of his mind is picturesque,
rather than moral.  He gives more of the features of nature than the soul of passion.  He conveys
the distinct outlines and visible changes in outward objects, rather than "their mortal consequences."
He is very inferior to Lord Byron in intense passion, to Moore in delightful fancy, to Mr.
Wordsworth in profound sentiment: but he has more picturesque power than any of them; that
is, he places the objects themselves, about which they might feel and think, in a much more
striking point of view, with greater variety of dress and attitude, and with more local truth
of colouring.  His imagery is Gothic and grotesque.  The manners and actions have the interest
and curiosity belonging to a wild country and a distant period of time.  Few descriptions have
a more complete reality, a more striking appearance of life and motion, than that of the warriors
in the Lady of the Lake, who start up at the command of Rhoderic Dhu, from their concealment
under the fern, and disappear again in an instant.  The Lay of the Last Minstrel and Marmion
are the first, and perhaps the best of his works. The Goblin Page, in the first of these, is
a very interesting and inscrutable little personage.  In reading these poems, I confess I am
a little disconcerted, in turning over the page, to find Mr. Westall's pictures, which always
seem fac-similes of the persons represented, with ancient costume and a theatrical air.  This
may be a compliment to Mr. Westall, but it is not one to Walter Scott.  The truth is, there
is a modern air in the midst of the antiquarian research of Mr. Scott's poetry.  It is history
or tradition in masquerade.  Not only the crust of old words and images is worn off with time,--the
substance is grown comparatively light and worthless.  The forms are old and uncouth; but the
spirit is effeminate and frivolous.  This is a deduction from the praise I have given to his
pencil for extreme fidelity, though it has been no obstacle to its drawing-room success.  He
has just hit the town between the romantic and the fashionable; and between the two, secured
all classes of readers on his side.  In a word, I conceive that he is to the great poet, what
an excellent mimic is to a great actor.  There is no determinate impression left on the mind
by reading his poetry.  It has no results.  The reader rises up from the perusal with new images
and associations, but he remains the same man that he was before.  A great mind is one that
moulds the minds of others.  Mr. Scott has put the Border Minstrelsy and scattered traditions
of the country into easy, animated verse.  But the Notes to his poems are just as entertaining
as the poems themselves, and his poems are only entertaining.

Mr. Wordsworth is the most original poet now living.  He is the reverse of Walter Scott in
his defects and excellences.  He has nearly all that the other wants, and wants all that the
other possesses.  His poetry is not external, but internal; it does not depend upon tradition,
or story, or old song; he furnishes it from his own mind, and is his own subject.  He is the
poet of mere sentiment.  Of many of the Lyrical Ballads, it is not possible to speak in terms
of too high praise, such as Hart-leap Well, the Banks of the Wye, Poor Susan, parts of the
Leech-gatherer, the lines to a Cuckoo, to a Daisy, the Complaint, several of the Sonnets, and
a hundred others of inconceivable beauty, of perfect originality and pathos.  They open a finer
and deeper vein of thought and feeling than any poet in modern times has done, or attempted.
He has produced a deeper impression, and on a smaller circle, than any other of his contemporaries.
His powers have been mistaken by the age, nor does he exactly understand them himself.  He
cannot form a whole.  He has not the constructive faculty.  He can give only the fine tones
of thought, drawn from his mind by accident or nature, like the sounds drawn from the AEolian
harp by the wandering gale.--He is totally deficient in all the machinery of poetry.  His Excursion,
taken as a whole, notwithstanding the noble materials thrown away in it, is a proof of this.
The line labours, the sentiment moves slow, but the poem stands stock-still.  The reader makes
no way from the first line to the last.  It is more than any thing in the world like Robinson
Crusoe's boat, which would have been an excellent good boat, and would have carried him to
the other side of the globe, but that he could not get it out of the sand where it stuck fast.
I did what little I could to help to launch it at the time, but it would not do.  I am not,
however, one of those who laugh at the attempts or failures of men of genius.  It is not my
way to cry "Long life to the conqueror." Success and desert are not with me synonymous terms;
and the less Mr. Wordsworth's general merits have been understood, the more necessary is it
to insist upon them.  This is not the place to repeat what I have already said on the subject.
The reader may turn to it in the Round Table.  I do not think, however, there is any thing
in the larger poem equal to many of the detached pieces in the Lyrical Ballads.  As Mr. Wordsworth's
poems have been little known to the public, or chiefly through garbled extracts from them,
I will here give an entire poem (one that has always been a favourite with me), that the reader
may know what it is that the admirers of this author find to be delighted with in his poetry.
Those who do not feel the beauty and the force of it, may save themselves the trouble of inquiring
farther.

HART-LEAP WELL.

      The knight had ridden down from Wensley moor
        With the slow motion of a summer's cloud;
      He turned aside towards a vassal's door,
        And, "Bring another horse!" he cried aloud.

      "Another horse!"--That shout the vassal heard,
        And saddled his best steed, a comely gray;
      Sir Walter mounted him; he was the third
        Which he had mounted on that glorious day.

      Joy sparkled in the prancing courser's eyes:
        The horse and horseman are a happy pair;
      But, though Sir Walter like a falcon flies,
        There is a doleful silence in the air.

      A rout this morning left Sir Walter's hall,
        That as they galloped made the echoes roar;
      But horse and man are vanished, one and all;
        Such race, I think, was never seen before.

      Sir Walter, restless as a veering wind,
        Calls to the few tired dogs that yet remain:
      Brach, Swift, and Music, noblest of their kind,
        Follow, and up the weary mountain strain.

      The knight hallooed, he chid and cheered them on
        With suppliant gestures and upbraidings stern;
      But breath and eye-sight fail; and, one by one,
        The dogs are stretched among the mountain fern.

      Where is the throng, the tumult of the race?
        The bugles that so joyfully were blown?
        --This chase it looks not like an earthly chase;
        Sir Walter and the hart are left alone.

      The poor hart toils along the mountain side;
        I will not stop to tell how far he fled,
      Nor will I mention by what death he died;
        But now the knight beholds him lying dead.

      Dismounting then, he leaned against a thorn;
        He had no follower, dog, nor man, nor boy:
      He neither smacked his whip, nor blew his horn,
        But gazed upon the spoil with silent joy.

      Close to the thorn on which Sir Walter leaned,
        Stood his dumb partner in this glorious act;
      Weak as a lamb the hour that it is yeaned;
        And foaming like a mountain cataract.

      Upon his side the hart was lying stretched:
        His nose half-touched a spring beneath a hill,
      And with the last deep groan his breath had fetched
        The waters of the spring were trembling still.

      And now, too happy for repose or rest,
        (Was never man in such a joyful case!)
      Sir Walter walked all round, north, south, and west,
        And gazed, and gazed upon that darling place.

      And climbing up the hill--(it was at least
        Nine roods of sheer ascent) Sir Walter found,
      Three several hoof-marks which the hunted beast
        Had left imprinted on the verdant ground.

      Sir Walter wiped his face and cried, "Till now
        Such sight was never seen by living eyes:
      Three leaps have borne him from this lofty brow,
        Down to the very fountain where he lies.

      I'll build a pleasure-house upon this spot,
        And a small arbour, made for rural joy;
      'Twill be the traveller's shed, the pilgrim's cot,
        A place of love for damsels that are coy.

      A cunning artist will I have to frame
        A bason for that fountain in the dell;
      And they, who do make mention of the same
        From this day forth, shall call it HART-LEAP WELL.

      And, gallant brute! to make thy praises known,
        Another monument shall here be raised;
      Three several pillars, each a rough-hewn stone,
        And planted where thy hoofs the turf have grazed.

      And, in the summer-time when days are long,
        I will come hither with my paramour;
      And with the dancers, and the minstrel's song,
        We will make merry in that pleasant bower.

      Till the foundations of the mountains fail,
        My mansion with its arbour shall endure;--
      The joy of them who till the fields of Swale,
        And them who dwell among the woods of Ure!"

      Then home he went, and left the hart, stone-dead,
        With breathless nostrils stretched above the spring.
      --Soon did the knight perform what he had said,
        And far and wide the fame thereof did ring.

      Ere thrice the moon into her port had steered,
        A cup of stone received the living well;
      Three pillars of rude stone Sir Walter reared,
        And built a house of pleasure in the dell.

      And near the fountain, flowers of stature tall
        With trailing plants and trees were intertwined,--
      Which soon composed a little sylvan hall,
        A leafy shelter from the sun and wind.

      And thither, when the summer-days were long,
        Sir Walter journeyed with his paramour;
      And with the dancers and the minstrel's song
        Made merriment within that pleasant bower.

      The knight, Sir Walter, died in course of time,
        And his bones lie in his paternal vale.--
      But there is matter for a second rhyme,
        And I to this would add another tale."

PART SECOND.

      "The moving accident is not my trade:
        To freeze the blood I have no ready arts:
      'Tis my delight, alone in summer shade,
        To pipe a simple song for thinking hearts.

      As I from Hawes to Richmond did repair,
        It chanced that I saw standing in a dell
      Three aspens at three corners of a square,
        And one, not four yards distant, near a well.

      What this imported I could ill divine:
        And, pulling now the rein my horse to stop,
      I saw three pillars standing in a line,
        The last stone pillar on a dark hill-top.

      The trees were gray, with neither arms nor head;
        Half-wasted the square mound of tawny green;
      So that you just might say, as then I said,
        "Here in old time the hand of man hath been."

      I looked upon the hill both far and near,
        More doleful place did never eye survey;
      It seemed as if the spring-time came not here,
        And Nature here were willing to decay.

      I stood in various thoughts and fancies lost,
        When one, who was in shepherd's garb attired,
      Came up the hollow:--Him did I accost,
        And what this place might be I then inquired.

      The shepherd stopped, and that same story told
        Which in my former rhyme I have rehearsed.
      "A jolly place," said he, "in times of old!
        But something ails it now; the spot is curst.

      You see these lifeless stumps of aspen wood--
        Some say that they are beeches, others elms--
      These were the bower; and here a mansion stood,
        The finest palace of a hundred realms!

      The arbour does its own condition tell;
        You see the stones, the fountain, and the stream;
      But as to the great lodge! you might as well
        Hunt half a day for a forgotten dream.

      There's neither dog nor heifer, horse nor sheep,
        Will wet his lips within that cup of stone;
      And oftentimes, when all are fast asleep,
        This water doth send forth a dolorous groan.

      Some say that here a murder has been done,
        And blood cries out for blood: but, for my part,
      I've guessed, when I've been sitting in the sun,
        That it was all for that unhappy hart.

      What thoughts must through the creature's brain have passed!
        Even from the top-most stone, upon the steep,
      Are but three bounds--and look, Sir, at this last--
        --O Master! it has been a cruel leap.

      For thirteen hours he ran a desperate race;
        And in my simple mind we cannot tell
      What cause the hart might have to love this place,
        And come and make his death-bed near the well.

      Here on the grass perhaps asleep he sank,
        Lulled by this fountain in the summer-tide;
      This water was perhaps the first he drank
        When he had wandered from his mother's side.

      In April here beneath the scented thorn
        He heard the birds their morning carols sing;
      And he, perhaps, for aught we know, was born
        Not half a furlong from that self-same spring.

      But now here's neither grass nor pleasant shade;
        The sun on drearier hollow never shone;
      So will it be, as I have often said,
        Till trees, and stones, and fountain all are gone."

      "Gray-headed Shepherd, thou hast spoken well;
        Small difference lies between thy creed and mine:
      This beast not unobserved by Nature fell;
        His death was mourned by sympathy divine.

      The Being, that is in the clouds and air,
        That is in the green leaves among the groves,
      Maintains a deep, and reverential care
        For the unoffending creatures whom he loves.

      The pleasure-house is dust:--behind, before,
        This is no common waste, no common gloom;
      But Nature, in due course of time, once more
        Shall here put on her beauty and her bloom.

      She leaves these objects to a slow decay,
        That what we are, and have been, may be known;
      But at the coming of the milder day,
        These monuments shall all be overgrown.

Mr. Wordsworth is at the head of that which has been denominated the Lake school of poetry;
a school which, with all my respect for it, I do not think sacred from criticism or exempt
from faults, of some of which faults I shall speak with becoming frankness; for I do not see
that the liberty of the press ought to be shackled, or freedom of speech curtailed, to screen
either its revolutionary or renegado extravagances. This school of poetry had its origin in
the French revolution, or rather in those sentiments and opinions which produced that revolution;
and which sentiments and opinions were indirectly imported into this country in translations
from the German about that period.  Our poetical literature had, towards the close of the last
century, degenerated into the most trite, insipid, and mechanical of all things, in the hands
of the followers of Pope and the old French school of poetry.  It wanted something to stir
it up, and it found that some thing in the principles and events of the French revolution.
From the impulse it thus received, it rose at once from the most servile imitation and tamest
common-place, to the utmost pitch of singularity and paradox.  The change in the belles-lettres
was as complete, and to many persons as startling, as the change in politics, with which it
went hand in hand.  There was a mighty ferment in the heads of statesmen and poets, kings and
people.  According to the prevailing notions, all was to be natural and new.  Nothing that
was established was to be tolerated.  All the common-place figures of poetry, tropes, allegories,
personifications, with the whole heathen mythology, were instantly discarded; a classical allusion
was considered as a piece of antiquated foppery; capital letters were no more allowed in print,
than letters-patent of nobility were permitted in real life; kings and queens were dethroned
from their rank and station in legitimate tragedy or epic poetry, as they were decapitated
elsewhere; rhyme was looked upon as a relic of the feudal system, and regular metre was abolished
along with regular government.  Authority and fashion, elegance or arrangement, were hooted
out of countenance, as pedantry and prejudice.  Every one did that which was good in his own
eyes.  The object was to reduce all things to an absolute level; and a singularly affected
and outrageous simplicity prevailed in dress and manners, in style and sentiment.  A striking
effect produced where it was least expected, something new and original, no matter whether
good, bad, or indifferent, whether mean or lofty, extravagant or childish, was all that was
aimed at, or considered as compatible with sound philosophy and an age of reason.  The licentiousness
grew extreme: Coryate's Crudities were nothing to it.  The world was to be turned topsy-turvy;
and poetry, by the good will of our Adam-wits, was to share its fate and begin de novo.  It
was a time of promise, a renewal of the world and of letters; and the Deucalions, who were
to perform this feat of regeneration, were the present poet-laureat and the two authors of
the Lyrical Ballads.  The Germans, who made heroes of robbers, and honest women of cast-off
mistresses, had already exhausted the extravagant and marvellous in sentiment and situation:
our native writers adopted a wonderful simplicity of style and matter.  The paradox they set
out with was, that all things are by nature equally fit subjects for poetry; or that if there
is any preference to be given, those that are the meanest and most unpromising are the best,
as they leave the greatest scope for the unbounded stores of thought and fancy in the writer's
own mind.  Poetry had with them "neither buttress nor coigne of vantage to make its pendant
bed and procreant cradle." It was not "born so high: its aiery buildeth in the cedar's top,
and dallies with the wind, and scorns the sun." It grew like a mushroom out of the ground;
or was hidden in it like a truffle, which it required a particular sagacity and industry to
find out and dig up.  They founded the new school on a principle of sheer humanity, on pure
nature void of art.  It could not be said of these sweeping reformers and dictators in the
republic of letters, that "in their train walked crowns and crownets; that realms and islands,
like plates, dropt from their pockets": but they were surrounded, in company with the Muses,
by a mixed rabble of idle apprentices and Botany Bay convicts, female vagrants, gipsies, meek
daughters in the family of Christ, of ideot boys and mad mothers, and after them "owls and
night-ravens flew." They scorned "degrees, priority, and place, insisture, course, proportion,
season, form, office, and custom in all line of order":--the distinctions of birth, the vicissitudes
of fortune, did not enter into their abstracted, lofty, and levelling calculation of human
nature.  He who was more than man, with them was none.  They claimed kindred only with the
commonest of the people: peasants, pedlars, and village-barbers were their oracles and bosom
friends.  Their poetry, in the extreme to which it professedly tended, and was in effect carried,
levels all distinctions of nature and society; has "no figures nor no fantasies," which the
prejudices of superstition or the customs of the world draw in the brains of men; "no trivial
fond records" of all that has existed in the history of past ages; it has no adventitious pride,
pomp, or circumstance, to set it off; "the marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe;" neither
tradition, reverence, nor ceremony, "that to great ones 'longs": it breaks in pieces the golden
images of poetry, and defaces its armorial bearings, to melt them down in the mould of common
humanity or of its own upstart self-sufficiency.  They took the same method in their new-fangled
"metre ballad-mongering" scheme, which Rousseau did in his prose paradoxes-- of exciting attention
by reversing the established standards of opinion and estimation in the world.  They were for
bringing poetry back to its primitive simplicity and state of nature, as he was for bringing
society back to the savage state: so that the only thing remarkable left in the world by this
change, would be the persons who had produced it.  A thorough adept in this school of poetry
and philanthropy is jealous of all excellence but his own.  He does not even like to share
his reputation with his subject; for he would have it all proceed from his own power and originality
of mind.  Such a one is slow to admire any thing that is admirable; feels no interest in what
is most interesting to others, no grandeur in any thing grand, no beauty in anything beautiful.
He tolerates only what he himself creates; he sympathizes only with what can enter into no
competition with him, with "the bare trees and mountains bare, and grass in the green field."
He sees nothing but himself and the universe.  He hates all greatness and all pretensions to
it, whether well or ill-founded.  His egotism is in some respects a madness; for he scorns
even the admiration of himself, thinking it a presumption in any one to suppose that he has
taste or sense enough to understand him.  This is the reason that so few people take an interest
in his writings, because he takes an interest in nothing that others do!--The effect has been
perceived as something odd; but the cause or principle has never been distinctly traced to
its source before, as far as I know. The proofs are to be found every where--in Mr. Southey's
Botany Bay Eclogues, in his book of Songs and Sonnets, his Odes and Inscriptions, so well parodied
in the Anti-Jacobin Review, in his Joan of Arc, and last, though not least, in his Wat Tyler:

      "When Adam delved, and Eve span,
      Where was then the gentleman?"

(--or the poet laureat either, we may ask?)--In Mr. Coleridge's Ode to an Ass's Foal, in his
Lines to Sarah, his Religious Musings; and in his and Mr. Wordsworth's Lyrical Ballads, passim.

Of Mr. Southey's larger epics, I have but a faint recollection at this distance of time, but
all that I remember of them is mechanical and extravagant, heavy and superficial.  His affected,
disjointed style is well imitated in the Rejected Addresses.  The difference between him and
Sir Richard Blackmore seems to be, that the one is heavy and the other light, the one solemn
and the other pragmatical, the one phlegmatic and the other flippant; and that there is no
Gay in the present time to give a Catalogue Raisonne of the performances of the living undertaker
of epics.  Kehama is a loose sprawling figure, such as we see cut out of wood or paper, and
pulled or jerked with wire or thread, to make sudden and surprising motions, without meaning,
grace, or nature in them.  By far the best of his works are some of his shorter personal compositions,
in which there is an ironical mixture of the quaint and serious, such as his lines on a picture
of Gaspar Poussin, the fine tale of Gualberto, his Description of a Pig, and the Holly-tree,
which is an affecting, beautiful, and modest retrospect on his own character.  May the aspiration
with which it concludes be fulfilled! [11]--But the little he has done of true and sterling
excellence, is overloaded by the quantity of indifferent matter which he turns out every year,
"prosing or versing," with equally mechanical and irresistible facility.  His Essays, or political
and moral disquisitions, are not so full of original matter as Montaigne's.  They are second
or third rate compositions in that class.

[11]
      "O reader! hast thou ever stood to see
            The Holly Tree?
      The eye that contemplates it well perceives
            Its glossy leaves,
      Ordered by an intelligence so wise
      As might confound the Atheist's sophistries.

      Below, a circling fence, its leaves are seen
            Wrinkled and keen;
      No grazing cattle through their prickly round
            Can reach to wound;
      But as they grow where nothing is to fear,
      Smooth and unarm'd the pointless leaves appear.

      I love to view these things with curious eyes,
            And moralize;
      And in the wisdom of the Holly Tree
            Can emblems see
      Wherewith perchance to make a pleasant rhyme,
      Such as may profit in the after time.

      So, though abroad perchance I might appear
            Harsh and austere,
      To those who on my leisure would intrude
            Reserved and rude,
      Gentle at home amid my friends I'd be,
      Like the high leaves upon the Holly Tree.

      And should my youth, as youth is apt I know,
            Some harshness show,
      All vain asperities I day by day
            Would wear away,
      Till the smooth temper of my age should be
      Like the high leaves upon the Holly Tree.

      And as when all the summer trees are seen
            So bright and green,
      The Holly leaves their fadeless hues display
            Less bright than they,
      But when the bare and wintry woods we see,
      What then so cheerful as the Holly Tree?

      So serious should my youth appear among
            The thoughtless throng,
      So would I seem amid the young and gay
            More grave than they,
      That in my age as cheerful I might be
      As the green winter of the Holly Tree."--

It remains that I should say a few words of Mr. Coleridge; and there is no one who has a better
right to say what he thinks of him than I have.  "Is there here any dear friend of Caesar?
To him I say, that Brutus's love to Caesar was no less than his." But no matter.--His Ancient
Mariner is his most remarkable performance, and the only one that I could point out to any
one as giving an adequate idea of his great natural powers.  It is high German, however, and
in it he seems to "conceive of poetry but as a drunken dream, reckless, careless, and heedless,
of past, present, and to come." His tragedies (for he has written two) are not answerable to
it; they are, except a few poetical passages, drawling sentiment and metaphysical jargon. 
He has no genuine dramatic talent.  There is one fine passage in his Christobel, that which
contains the description of the quarrel between Sir Leoline and Sir Roland de Vaux of Tryermaine,
who had been friends in youth.

It might seem insidious if I were to praise his ode entitled Fire, Famine, and Slaughter, as
an effusion of high poetical enthusiasm, and strong political feeling.  His Sonnet to Schiller
conveys a fine compliment to the author of the Robbers, and an equally fine idea of the state
of youthful enthusiasm in which he composed it.  Of his Friend, I have spoken the truth elsewhere.
But I may say of him here, that he is the only person I ever knew who answered to the idea
of a man of genius.  He is the only person from whom I ever learnt any thing. There is only
one thing he could learn from me in return, but that he has not.

        "What though the radiance which was once so bright,
      Be now for ever taken from my sight,
      Though nothing can bring back the hour
      Of glory in the grass, of splendour in the flow'r;
        I do not grieve, but rather find
        Strength in what remains behind;
        In the primal sympathy,
        Which having been, must ever be;
        In the soothing thoughts that spring
        Out of human suffering;
      In years that bring the philosophic mind!"--

I have thus gone through the task I intended, and have come at last to the level ground.  I
have felt my subject gradually sinking from under me as I advanced, and have been afraid of
ending in nothing.  The interest has unavoidably decreased at almost every successive step
of the progress, like a play that has its catastrophe in the first or second act.  This, however,
I could not help.  I have done as well as I could.

