JESUS IS BORN IN BETHLEHEM
  III.  THE BOYHOOD OF JESUS
   IV.  JOHN THE BAPTIST
    V.  JESUS BEGINS HIS WORK
   VI.  SOME WORDS AND WORKS OF JESUS
  VII.  A FRIEND FOR THE SORROWFUL
 VIII.  MORE WONDERFUL WORKS AND WORDS
   IX.  THE MAN BORN BLIND, AND LAZARUS
    X.  THE PRODIGAL SON, AND OTHER STORIES
   XI.  THE LAST DAYS IN JERUSALEM
  XII.  THE CRUCIFIXION AND THE RESURRECTION
   XX   SELECTED SONGS, PSALMS, AND PRAYERS

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

"I am the good shepherd . . ." . . . . . . Frontispiece

Map of Palestine at the time of Christ

The shepherd's care

Bethlehem

Nazareth, from hill above

Jewish women grinding corn

The River Jordan

Jericho, from plains above

A modern Jew's wedding party in Galilee

Jacob's well

Ruins of Capernaum

The good Samaritan

Bethany

Child at prayer

The shepherd's care (2nd version)

The shepherd's care (3rd version)

The Jordan near Bethabara

Mount of Olives and Jerusalem

Gethsemane

Calvary

The empty tomb

The Sea of Galilee

The Mount of Olives

CHAPTER I

WHY JESUS CAME TO THIS WORLD

In the beginning, before the world was made, the Lord Jesus lived in heaven.  He lived in that
happy place with God.  Then God made the world.  He told the hills to come up out of the earth,
and the seas to run down into the deep places which He had made for them.  He made the grass,
the trees, and all the pretty flowers.  He put the sun, the moon, and the stars in the sky.
He filled the water with swimming fish, the air with flying birds, and the dry land with walking
and creeping animals.  And then He said, 'Let Us make man.'  Who were meant by 'Us'?  Who was
with God when He made the world?  It was Jesus.  God put Adam into the beautiful Garden of
Eden, and at first he was good and very happy.  God also made a woman, named Eve, to be his
wife, and to help him to take care of the garden.  All the fruit in the garden, except what
grew on one tree, was given to Adam and Eve to eat; all the animals were their servants; and
God was their Friend.

A wicked angel, who had been turned out of heaven, saw how happy Adam and Eve were, and he
was angry, and thought, 'I will make them as bad and unhappy as I am; I will make them do what
God has told them not to do.  Then he will turn them out of Eden, and they and their children
will be my servants for ever, and I shall be king of the world.'

So the wicked angel, whose name was Satan, came into Eden.  He got Adam and Eve to take the
fruit which God had told them not to eat, and God had to send them out of the beautiful garden;
for God had said He would punish Adam and Eve if they took that fruit, and God always keeps
His word.

But God went on loving Adam and Eve even when He knew that He must punish them, and He tried
to make them good in this way.  He thought, 'I will send My dear Son down to the earth.  He
shall become a little child, and grow up to be a man, and shall die for the sins of the world.'

Hundreds and hundreds of years passed away before Jesus came.  But a great many of the people
who lived in Palestine were expecting Him. God had said that when Jesus came, He would be a
Jew.  The Jews were very proud about that.  They often talked about the coming of Jesus. When
they talked about Him, they called Him the Messiah.

Just before Jesus was born, the Jews were very unhappy.  Roman soldiers had been fighting with
them, and had conquered them, and made them servants of the great Roman king.  He was called
Augustus Caesar, and he gave the Jews another king called Herod.  He was very wicked.

The Jews longed to get rid of Herod, and many of them thought, 'It will be all right when the
Messiah comes.  The Messiah will fight against the Romans; He will drive them away from our
land; and then He will be our King instead of that wicked Herod.'  But only a few Jews remembered
that Jesus was coming to fight against Satan and against sin.

The place where the Jews lived had four or five names.  It was called the Land of Canaan at
the first, then the Land of Promise, and then the Land of Israel.  But we call it the Holy
Land, or Palestine.

If you look at the map of Palestine, you will see a river running from the north of Palestine
to the south.  That river is called the Jordan. And Palestine is divided into four parts,--one
at the top (we call that the north), one at the bottom (we call that the south), one in the
middle, and one on the other or eastward side of the Jordan.

The part in the North is called Galilee.  The part in the south is called Judaea.  The part
in the middle is called Samaria.  The part on the other side of the Jordan is called Perea.

Palestine is full of hills, with great holes, called caves, in their sides.  Palestine is not
very big; England is about six times, and New York State about five times larger.  Washington
is called the capital of the United States.  The capital of Palestine was Jerusalem.

Jerusalem was a very beautiful city.  It was built on four or five hills which were very close
together.  One of these hills was called Mount Moriah.  On the top of Mount Moriah there was
a great Temple where the Jews went to pray.  Part of the Temple was called the Holy Place,
the part at the very top of the mountain.  It was splendid with its shining gold and white
marble, but it was not very large, for the people were not allowed to go into it.  When it
was time for the Jews to go to the Temple, silver trumpets were blown once, twice, three times,
and then the gates were thrown open, and the people crowded into the courts.

CHAPTER II

JESUS IS BORN IN BETHLEHEM

Mary, the mother of Jesus, lived in the little town of Nazareth, among the hills of Galilee.
She was going to be married to a carpenter called Joseph, who, like herself, lived in Nazareth.
One day God sent the angel Gabriel to Mary with a message.  Mary, when she saw and heard the
angel, was a little frightened.  But the angel told her he had some glad news for her.  Jesus,
the Son of God, the Messiah, was coming into the world very soon, and He was to come in the
form of a baby, as Mary's little child.  And Gabriel said that when He was born, Mary must
call Him JESUS.

Mary had a cousin named Elizabeth, who lived more than a hundred miles away from Nazareth,
and Mary longed to talk with her about all these wonderful things.  So she got ready for a
long journey, and went off into the hill country of Judaea to see Elizabeth.

And God had also promised to send Elizabeth a son.  And soon after Mary's visit the baby was
born, and all Elizabeth's friends were glad, and came to see her, and to thank God with her
for His great kindness.

The little Jew babies have a name given to them when they are eight days old.  And Elizabeth's
son was named John.

One night, soon after Mary got back from her cousin Elizabeth's house, the angel of the Lord
spoke to Joseph in a dream.  The angel told Joseph to marry Mary, and he told him Mary's secret
about the Son of God coming to earth as her little child, and he said to Joseph, 'THOU SHALT
CALL HIS NAME JESUS, FOB HE SHALL SAVE HIS PEOPLE FROM THEIR SINS.'  When Joseph woke up, his
first thought was to do what the angel had told him, and he at once took Mary to his own home
as his wife.

About this time Caesar Augustus, the great Emperor at Rome, sent word to Herod that he was
to take a census of the Jews.  Everybody's name had to be written down and his age, and many
other things about him. Every twenty years Augustus had a census taken, so that he might know
how much money the Jews ought to pay him, and how many Jew soldiers he ought to have.

In Palestine, at census time, people had to go to the towns where their fathers' fathers lived
a long time ago, and had to have their names put down there instead of having them put down
in their own homes.  Now, both Joseph and Mary belonged to the family of the great king David,
who was born in Bethlehem.  So Mary had to prepare for a long journey, and go with her husband
to Bethlehem.  Bethlehem is six miles from Jerusalem.  It is on the top of a hill, and people
have to climb up a steep road to get into the town.

An inn is a large house that people stay at when they are on a journey. The inns in Palestine
have four walls, with a door in front, and with a great empty space for camels and horses inside.
In the middle of the empty space is a fountain; and all round the walls, a little bit higher
than the part where the animals are, there are a number of places like empty stone arbors.
These empty places are called leewans, and they are open in front, so that everybody can see
into them.  Yet Mary and Joseph, after all their long journey from Nazareth, could not find
even an empty leewan to lie down in.

Near that inn there was a place in which asses and camels were kept. It was perhaps a cave
in the side of the hill.  And because there was no room for them in the inn, Mary and Joseph
had to go into that stable to sleep, and in that stable Jesus Christ was born.  Mary wrapped
Him in swaddling clothes, and laid Him in the manger in the place where the animals' food was kept.

On the hill where Bethlehem stands there are green places where shepherds feed their flocks.
There are wild animals in Palestine; and all night long the shepherds of Bethlehem watched
to see that no harm happened to their sheep.  One night an angel of the Lord stood by them
and a bright light shown round about them.  And there, in the stable near the inn, they found
Mary and Joseph, and the Babe lying in the manger, as the angels had said.

Jesus was the eldest son of His mother.  And the eldest sons in Jewish houses, when they were
forty days old, were taken to the Temple, and given to God.

So now, when Jesus was nearly six weeks old, He was brought from Bethlehem by Mary and Joseph
to the Temple at Jerusalem.  The mothers used to take a lamb with them, or two pigeons, as
a sacrifice to God. Mary took two pigeons.  She was not rich enough to buy a lamb.

A long way on the eastern side of the Jordan, there were countries where the people used to
watch the sun and the moon and the stars very carefully.  If they saw anything new and strange
in the heavens, they thought it meant that something wonderful was going to happen.  But some
of them knew and had heard from the Jews about God, and about the Messiah who was coming; and
they, like the Jews, were longing for Jesus.

One day these wise men saw a bright star which they had never seen before.  And as they looked
at it they felt sure that a great King of the Jews had been born in Judaea.  He sent for the
best priests, and other clever men, and asked them where Christ would be born.  And they said
to him, 'In Bethlehem of Judaea.'  They had read that in the Bible.  Then Herod said to the
wise men, 'Go and search out carefully about the young Child; and when ye have found Him, bring
me word, that I also may come and worship Him.'

When the wise men had heard the king, they went away to Bethlehem, and lo, the star went before
them, till it came and stood over where the young Child was.  And they rejoiced with great
joy.  And when they were come into the house (there was room in the inn now) they saw the young
Child with Mary, His mother, and they fell down and worshipped Him, and they gave Him their
presents--gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.  But the wise men did not go back to Herod.  God
told them in a dream not to go.  So they went home by another way instead.  So Joseph at once
got up, and took the young Child and His mother by night, and went away to Egypt.

When Herod found that the wise men did not come back, he was very angry, and he sent his soldiers
to Bethlehem, and had all the baby boys killed--all the children who were less than two years
of age.  And they killed all the baby boys in the places near Bethlehem as well.  And the poor
mothers cried, and nobody could comfort them.

Joseph and Mary stayed in Egypt, waiting for the angel to bring them word that it was time
to go back again to Palestine.  And one night, when Jesus was about three years old, the message
came.  But when he came there, people said to him, 'Herod is dead, but his son Archelaus is
king.'  And when Joseph knew that Archelaus was king, he was afraid to stay in Judaea.  And
God spoke to him again in a dream, and told him to go back to Galilee.  So Joseph and Mary
went back to Galilee, and lived in Nazareth again.

CHAPTER III

THE BOYHOOD OF JESUS

The Bible tells us only a few stories about the time when Jesus was a little boy.

Nazareth is built up the side of a hill, and there are plenty of gardens and fields down below.
Amongst these fields there is a fountain, where the women of Nazareth go to fetch water.  Jesus
must often have gone with His mother to that fountain; and sometimes, when she was tired, He
may have fetched the water for her Himself.

Mary wore a long blue dress, tied round the waist, and a cap with pieces of money sewn round
it, and a white cloth over her head and shoulders, just as the women of Nazareth do now; and
Jesus was very likely dressed in a red cap, a bright tunic, a sash of many colours, and a little
jacket of white or blue, just as the boys of Nazareth are dressed now.

The houses of Nazareth are white.  Grape vines grow over their walls, and doves sit and coo
on the flat roofs.  There is not much inside the houses: sometimes they have only one room.
There is a lamp in the middle of the room, and round the walls there are waterpots.  There
are bright-coloured quilts on a shelf.  People unroll these quilts at night and lie down upon
them.  There are mats and carpets in the house, and a bright-coloured box with treasures in
it, and a painted wooden stool; and that is nearly all.

When the people of the house want to eat, they put a tray of food on the wooden stool, and
they sit round the tray on the floor, and eat with their hands.  People in Palestine would
not know what to do with tables and chairs, and knives and forks, like ours.

The streets of Nazareth are long and narrow, and they are full of chickens and dogs, of donkeys
and camels, of blind beggars and children.  There are little shops by the side of the streets,
something like the leewans in the inn which I told you about.  But the tailors, the shoemakers,
the carpenters, and the coffee-grinders do not always sit in their shops.  They like to sit
on the ground outside, and do their work in the street; and the sellers of dates and of figs,
beans, barley, oranges, and other things, sit down in the street to sell their goods.

Joseph, Mary's husband, was a carpenter, and Jesus became a carpenter, and often came out of
the little shop and sat on the ground with plane, hammer, glue, and saw, and worked away in
the narrow street, just as the carpenters of Nazareth do now.

When the Jewish boys were twelve years old, they were called 'Sons of the Law,' and they were
taken to Jerusalem for the Passover.  When Jesus was twelve years old, Joseph and His mother
took Him up with them to the Passover.  When the week was over, Mary and Joseph started for
the journey back to Nazareth.  But Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. Thousands of people must
have been leaving Jerusalem just at the very time that Mary and Joseph went away.  So when
Mary and Joseph did not see Jesus in the crush, they did not at first feel frightened.  They
thought, 'We shall find Him soon with some of our friends.'  All day long they kept on looking
for Him in the crowd, but they did not see Him.  And at last they went back again to Jerusalem
looking for Him.

Next day they found Him in one of the courts of the Temple.  Several Rabbis were there, and
everyone who saw and heard Him was astonished. They asked Him questions too, and He answered
them wisely and well. Nobody could understand how a young boy could be so wise.

When Mary and Joseph saw Jesus sitting here, with Rabbis coming all around Him, they were greatly
surprised.  But His mother asked Him why He had stayed behind, and said, 'Thy father and I
have sought Thee sorrowing.'  Jesus said to His mother, 'HOW IS IT THAT YE HAVE SOUGHT ME?
WIST YE NOT (DID YOU NOT KNOW) THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?'

And now He went back with her and with Joseph to Nazareth, and obeyed them, exactly as He always
had done.  We do not know much more about Jesus when He was a boy.  But we do know that as
He grew taller, He 'increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.'

CHAPTER IV

JOHN THE BAPTIST

You remember about the child that was called John.  Zacharias, his father, and Elisabeth gave
John to God directly he was born.  They never cut his hair, and they never let him drink wine,
or eat grapes, or eat raisins.  That was the way they did in those days to show that he belonged
to God.

When John was old enough to understand, he gave himself to God.  And as he grew older, he made
up his mind that he would leave his home and friends, and go and live in the wilderness; and
his food there was locusts and wild honey.  Locusts are like large grasshoppers, and poor people
in the East often eat them.  They taste like shrimps, but are not so nice.

God had said that John should go before the Messiah to prepare the way for Him--to get people's
hearts ready for the Saviour.  And when John was in the wilderness, God told him to begin his
work.  So John went down from the wild hills of Judaea to the River Jordan, and he began to
preach to everyone who passed by.  There were many people passing by, for he went to the place
where people crossed the Jordan.

John said, REPENT!' (that means, 'Be really sorry for your sins'), 'FOR THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN
is AT HAND.'  A very great many people went from Jerusalem, and out of all the land of Judaea,
on purpose to hear John preaching.  And when they had heard him, some of them said to him,
'What shall we do then?'  And John told them that they were to be kind to one another; that
they were to give food to the hungry and clothing to the naked.

Some even of the proud Rabbis came down to the Jordan to John, and John told these Rabbis that
they must not be proud because they were Jews, but must try to be good really and truly.

A great many of the people who heard John preach felt sorry for the things they had done, and
they told John how sorry they were, and John baptized them in the River Jordan.  John told
the people that he could only baptize their bodies with water, but that some one else was coming
who would be able to baptize their hearts with the Holy Spirit.  This was Jesus.

After John had baptized a great many persons, he saw coming to him, one day, for baptism, a
Man about thirty years old; and when John looked at Him, he saw that He was quite different
from all the people who had been to him before.  It was Jesus who had come to be baptized before
He began His work.  He wanted to obey God in everything; and He wanted to show that He was
the Brother and Friend of all the people whom John had been baptizing.  And so, as Jesus wished
it, John went into the River Jordan with Him and baptized Him.

When Jesus had been baptized, and was full of the Holy Spirit, He went away into a wilderness.
And there, when Jesus was tired and hungry, Satan came to Him--just as he came to Adam and
Eve in the Garden of Eden--to tempt Him.

