In the young infant the character of the cry will, as I have already said, give some clue to
the seat of its pain, while, if you lay it down in its cot or in its nurse's arms in order
to examine its stomach, it will often resist and begin to cry. Its stomach then becomes perfectly
tense, and you cannot tell whether pressure on it causes pain or whether the cries are not
altogether the consequence of fretfulness and fear. It is therefore the best plan to pass your
hand beneath the child's clothes and to examine its stomach without altering its posture, while
at the same time the nurse in whose arms it is talks to it to distract its attention, or holds
it opposite the window, or opposite a bright light, which seldom fails to amuse an infant.
If there is no tenderness of the stomach the child will not cry on pressure; or if during your
examination the presence of wind in the intestines should occasion pain, gentle friction, instead
of increasing suffering, will give relief.

The one thing which still remains to do, especially in the case of children in whom teething
is not over, is to examine the mouth and ascertain the state of the gums, since some ailments
are caused and others are aggravated by teething. A wise mother or an intelligent nurse will
teach the child when well the little trick of putting out its tongue and opening its mouth
to show its teeth when told to do so; and though it may sometimes indulge rather out of place
in these performances when wished to behave especially prettily before strangers, yet when
older it will quickly learn the proprieties of behaviour, and in the meanwhile you profit much
by the lesson when illness really comes.

Sometimes, however, infants who when well will open their mouth and allow their gums to be
felt without difficulty, refuse to do so when ill; and it is always desirable that the mother
or nurse whose duty it is to tend the sick child constantly, should not frighten it, or lose
its confidence, by doing forcibly that which the doctor who comes occasionally may yet be quite
right in doing. You will, however, generally get a good view of the mouth and throat in young
infants by gently touching the lips with your finger: the child opens its mouth instinctively,
and then you can run your finger quickly over its tongue, and drawing it slightly forward perfectly
see the condition of the throat, feel the gums as you withdraw your finger, and notice the
appearance of the tongue. Sometimes it is important to ascertain whether a tooth which was
near coming through has actually pierced the gum, and yet the child's fretfulness renders it
almost impossible to induce it to open its mouth. If now, while the nurse holds the child in
her arms, you go behind her, you can, unseen and unawares, introduce your finger into its mouth
and ascertain all you wish to know before the little one has recovered from its surprise.

I have but little to say here about the general signs of brain disease in infancy and childhood,
because they will need minute notice afterwards. All that I would at present observe is, that
you must not at once conclude that a child's head is seriously affected, because it is heavy
and fretful and passionate, and refuses to be amused. The head, as we know by our own experience,
suffers by sympathy in the course of almost every ailment, certainly of every acute ailment,
at all ages. If the babe is not sick; if its bowels can be acted on by ordinary means; if,
though drowsy, it can be roused without difficulty; if, though it may prefer a darkened room,
it does not shrink from the light when admitted gradually; if it has no slight twitchings of
its fingers or of its wrists; if the head, though hot, is not hotter than the rest of the body;
if the large vessels of the neck, or the open part of the head, or fontanelle as it is termed,
in an infant in whom the head is not yet closed, are not beating violently; and, above all,
if when it cries it sheds tears, you may quiet your mind on the score of the child's brain,
at any rate until the doctor's visit, and may turn a deaf ear to the nurse or the friend who
assures you that the child is about to have convulsions or to be attacked by inflammation of
the brain.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] The thermometer used for this purpose, called a clinical thermometer, may be bought for
about twelve shillings, of any chemist or instrument-maker, and its mode of employment can
be learned in five minutes. No mother should be without it.

CHAPTER III.

THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF DISEASE IN INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD.

The management of the child when ill is difficult or easy in exact proportion to whether it
has been ill or well managed when in health. The mother who lives but little with her children,
who contents herself with a daily visit to the nursery, and who then scarcely sees her little
ones until they are brought into the drawing-room in the evening in full dress, to be petted
and admired and fondled by the visitors, cannot expect to take her place by the child's bed
in its sickness, to soothe its pain, and to expend upon it all the pent-up tenderness which,
in spite of the calls of business or of pleasure, still dwells within her heart. She must be
content to see the infant turn from her to the nurse with whose face it has all its life been
familiar; or to hear the little one tell her to go away, for her presence is associated with
none of those 'familiar acts, made beautiful by love,' which win the young heart: the mother
is but a stranger who brings no help, who relieves no distress. Happy such a mother if she
has found a conscientious and intelligent nurse to whom she can delegate her office; but she
must remember that with the child, love follows in the steps of daily, hourly kindnesses, that
a mother's part must be played in health if it is to be undertaken in sickness, that it cannot
be laid down and taken up again at pleasure.

There is another mother who cannot nurse her child to any good purpose, she who when it was
well spoilt it from excess of love, who has yielded to each wayward wish, and has allowed it
to become the petty tyrant of the household. The child is ill, it is languid, feverish, and
in pain; no position is quite easy to it, no food pleasant to it, bed is irksome, medicine
is nasty. It knows only that it suffers, it has been accustomed to have its will obeyed in
everything, and cannot understand that its suffering is not at once taken away. It insists
on getting up and on being dressed, or on lying in its mother's or nurse's lap, where the warmth
of another person's body does but aggravate its fever; it screams with passion at the approach
of the doctor, it will not allow itself to be examined, it will take no medicine; the doctor
is powerless, the mother heart-broken. Sickness is not the time to exercise authority which
has not been put in force before; and, not once but many times, I have watched, a sad spectator,
the death of children from an illness not necessarily fatal, but rendered so because it was
impossible to learn the progress of disease, impossible to administer the necessary remedies.

What a child has been made when well, such it will be when sick.

One more point I must insist on before going into details, and that is as to the necessity
of perfect truthfulness in dealing with sick children. The foolish device of telling a child
when ill, that the doctor who has been sent for is its uncle or its cousin, is the outcome
of the still more foolish falsehood of threatening the child with the doctor's visit if it
does not do this or that. No endeavour should be spared by nurse or parent, or by the doctor
himself, to render his visit popular in the nursery. Three-fourths of the difficulties which
attend the administration of medicine are commonly the result of previous bad management of
the child, of foolish over-indulgence, or of still more foolish want of truthfulness. It may
answer once to tell a child that medicine is nice when really it is nasty, but the trick will
scarcely succeed a second time, and the one success will increase your difficulties ever after.
If medicine is absolutely necessary, and the child is too young to understand reason, it must
be given by force, very firmly but very kindly, and the grief it occasions will be forgotten
in an hour or two. If he is old enough, tell him that the medicine is ordered to do him good,
and firmness combined with gentleness will usually succeed in inducing him to take it. The
advantage of perfect truthfulness extends to every incident in the illness of children, even
to the not saying, 'Oh, you will soon be well,' if it is not likely so to be. If children find
you never deceive them, how implicitly they will trust you, what an infinity of trouble is
saved, and how much rest of mind is secured to the poor little sufferer!

A little boy three years old was ordered to be cupped. The cupper, a kind old man, said to
encourage him, 'Oh, dear little boy, it's nothing.' The child turned to his mother, saying,
'Mummy, is that true?' His mother said it was not, but that for her sake she hoped he would
try to bear it well. And the operation was performed without a cry or a sound.

I have spoken of the moral conditions implied in the successful management of sick children.
There are certain physical conditions no less important. The sick child should not be left
in the common nursery, of which he would taint the air, while he would be disturbed by its
other little inmates. He must (and of course I am speaking not of some slight ailment, but
of a more serious indisposition) be in a room by himself, which should be kept quiet and shaded,
and at a temperature which should not be allowed to fall below 60° if the chest is in any way
affected, nor to exceed 55° in other cases, and this temperature should always be measured,
not by guess, but by the thermometer hung close to the child's bed. The room is to be shaded,
not by curtains round the bed--for, save in special circumstances, curtains should be banished
from the nursery--nor by closed shutters which exclude both light and air, but by letting down
the blinds, so as to have a sort of twilight in the room, and by shading any light which at
night may be burned in the apartment; while whether by day or night the child should be so
placed that his face shall be turned from the light, not directed towards it. The room should
be kept quiet, and this requires not only general quiet in the house, but quiet in the movements
of all persons in the room; speaking, not in a whisper, but in a low and gentle voice; walking
carefully, not in a silk dress nor in creaky shoes, but not on tiptoe, for there is a fussy
sham quietness which disturbs the sick far more than the loudest noise.

Little precautions, so trifling that few think of noticing them, have much to do with the quiet
of the sick-room, and consequently with the patient's comfort. A rattling window will keep
a child awake for hours, or the creaking handle of the door rouse it up again each time anyone
enters the room; and to put a wedge in the window, or to tie back the handle, and so quietly
open and close the door, may do more than medicine towards promoting the child's recovery.
There can, however, be no abiding quiet without a well-ordered room, and the old proverb carried
out, 'A place for everything, and everything in its place.' A table covered with a cloth so
that things may be taken up and put down noiselessly, and set apart for the medicine, the drink,
the nourishment, cups, glasses, spoons, or whatever else the patient is in frequent need of;
with a wooden bowl and water for rinsing cups and glasses in, and a cloth or two for wiping
them, will save much trouble and noise, and the loud whispers of the attendants to each other,
'Where is the sugar? where is the arrowroot? where did you put down the medicine?' of which
we hear so much in the sick-room, so much especially in the sick-room of the child, who is
unable to tell how extremely all this disturbs him.

One more caution still remains for me to give. Do not talk to the doctor in the child's room,
do not relate bad symptoms, do not express your fears, nor ask the doctor his opinion in the
child's hearing. The child often understands much more than you would imagine, misunderstands
still more; and over and over again I have known the thoughtless utterance of the mother, nurse,
or doctor depress a child's spirits and seriously retard his recovery.

It is consoling to bear in mind that how grave soever a child's illness may be, the power of
repair is greater in early life than in adult age, that with few exceptions the probability
of recovery is greater in the child than it would be from the same disease in the grown person.
This too is due not simply to the activity of the reparative powers in early life, but also
in great measure to the mental and moral characteristics of childhood.

To make the sick child happy, in order that he may get well, is the unwritten lesson which
they who have best learnt, know best how to nurse sick children. It may seem strange, that
from so high a purpose I should at once come down to so commonplace a detail as to insist on
the importance, even on this account, of keeping the sick child in bed.

At the onset of every illness of which the nature is not obvious, during the course of any
illness in which the chest is affected, or in which the temperature is higher than natural,
bed is the best and happiest place for the child. In it repose is most complete, far more complete
than after early babyhood it can be in the nurse's or mother's lap, and free from the great
objection of the increased heat from being in contact with another person's body. Nothing is
more painful than to witness the little child, sick and feverish, with heavy eyes, and aching
head, up and dressed, trying to amuse itself with its customary toys; then, with 'Please nurse
me,' begging to be taken in the lap, then getting down again; fretful, and sad, and passionate
by turns; dragging about its misery, wearing out its little strength, in deference to the prejudice
that bed is so weakening.

The bed does not weaken, but the disease does which renders bed necessary.

A child frets sometimes at the commencement of an illness if kept in its own little cot. But
put it in its nurse's or mother's big bed, set a tea tray with some new toys upon it before
the child, and a pillow behind it, so that when tired with play it may lie back and go to sleep,
and you will have husbanded its strength and saved your own, have halved your anxiety and doubled
the child's happiness.

Young infants, indeed, when ill often refuse to be put out of the arms, but over and over again
I have found the experiment succeed of laying the baby on a bed, the nurse or mother lying
down by its side, and soothing it to sleep. Were there no other drawback, it is a waste of
power to have two persons employed in nursing a sick child; one to keep it in her lap, and
the other to wait upon her.

It is important in all serious illnesses of children, as well as of a grown person, that the
bed should be so placed that the attendant can pass on either side, and can from either side
reach the patient to do whatever is necessary. Most cots for young children have a rail round
them to prevent the child falling out of bed when asleep or at play; but nothing can be more
inconvenient than the fixed rail over which the attendant has to bend in order to give the
child food or medicine, or for any other purpose. When I founded the Children's Hospital in
Ormond Street, I introduced children's cots (the idea of which I took from those in the Children's
Hospital at Frankfort) the sides of which let down when needed, while on the top of the rail,
or dependent from it, a board is placed surrounded by a raised beading on which the toys, the
food, or drink may be put with great convenience. These bedsteads, with probably some improved
arrangement for letting down the sides, may be seen now in most children's hospitals, but I
have been surprised to observe how seldom they are employed in private nurseries, and how comparatively
few bedstead-makers are acquainted with them. The result would probably have been very different
had a patent been taken out for them, and had they been largely advertised as 'Dr. West's improved
children's bedsteads'! The uninclosed spring mattress, and the wedge-shaped horsehair cushion,
both of which I introduced in Ormond Street, are also very valuable. The latter slightly raises
the head and shoulders, and renders any other than a thin horsehair pillow for the head to
rest on unnecessary.

A few more hints about the bed may not be out of place. First of all, after early infancy is
over, at latest after nine months, except for some very special reason the napkin should be
done away with. It heats the child, chafes it, and makes it sore; it conceals the inattention
of the nurse, and at the same time renders it less easy to keep the little one absolutely clean
than if a folded napkin is placed under the hips, whence it can be at once removed when soiled.
In all serious illness a piece of macintosh should be placed under the sheet, as is done in
the lying-in room, and a draw-sheet, as it is termed, over it. The draw-sheet is, as its name
implies, a folded sheet, laid under the hips, and withdrawn in part when needed so as to prevent
the child ever lying on linen that is wet or soiled. It can be drawn away from under the child,
and a portion still clean and dry brought under it, while the soiled part is rolled together
and wrapped up in macintosh at one side of the bed until a new draw sheet is substituted, which
is easily done by tacking a fresh sheet to that which is about to be withdrawn, when the fresh
one is brought under the child's body as that which is soiled is removed. The greatest care
should always be taken that the under sheet is perfectly free from ruck or wrinkle; in long
illnesses the skin becomes chafed and bed-sores may be produced by neglect of this simple precaution.
The complaint that a child throws off the bed-clothes is easily remedied by a couple of bits
of tape tied on either side loosely from the sheet or blanket to the sides of the cot.

When children are compelled to remain long in bed, great care is needed to prevent the skin
from being chafed, which is the first step that leads to the occurrence of bed-sores. Careful
washing with soap and water daily of the whole body, not only of those parts which may be soiled
by the urine or the evacuations; the washing afterwards with pure tepid water; careful drying,
and abundant powdering with starch powder, will do much to prevent the accident. If, in spite
of this care, the skin seems anywhere to be red or chafed, it should be sponged over with brandy
or with sweet spirits of nitre before powdering. Real bed-sores must be seen and treated by
the doctor.

The warm bath is a great source of comfort to the sick child, and in all cases of feverishness,
of influenza, or threatening bronchitis, it should not be omitted before the child is put to
bed, or must be given towards evening if the child has not been up during the day. The bath
may be either warm or hot, the temperature of the former being 90° to 92°, that of the latter
95° to 96°. The temperature should always be ascertained by the thermometer, and the warm bath
only should be employed, except when the hot bath is ordered by the doctor. The warm bath relieves
feverishness and quiets the system, and promotes gentle perspiration; the hot bath is given
when the eruption of scarlet fever or of measles fails to come out properly, or in some cases
of convulsions at the same time that cold is applied to the head, or, in some forms of dropsy
when it is of importance to excite the action of the skin as much as possible. It is not desirable
that a child should remain less than five or more than ten minutes in the bath, and attention
must be paid by the addition of warm water to maintain the bath at the same temperature during
the whole time of the child's immersion.

Now and then infants and very young children when ill seem frightened at the bath, and then
instead of being soothed and relieved by it they are only excited and distressed. If the bath
is brought into the room, prepared in the child's sight, and he is then taken out of bed, undressed,
and put into the water which he sees steaming before him, he very often becomes greatly alarmed,
struggles violently, cries passionately, and does not become quiet again till he has sobbed
himself to sleep. All this time, however, he has been exerting his inflamed lungs to the utmost,
and will probably have thereby done himself ten times more harm than the bath has done good.
Very different would it have been if the bath had been got ready out of the child's sight;
if when brought to the bedside it had been covered with a blanket so as to hide the steam;
if the child had been laid upon the blanket, and gently let down into the water, and this even
without undressing him if he were very fearful; and then if you wish to make a baby quite happy
in the water, put in a couple of bungs or corks with feathers stuck in them, for the baby to
play with. Managed thus, I have often seen the much-dreaded bath become a real delight to the
little one, and have found that if tears were shed at all, it was at being taken out of the
water, not at being placed in it.

In a great variety of conditions, poultices are of use. They are needed in the case of abscesses
which it is wished to bring to a head; they are sometimes applied over wounds which are in
an unhealthy condition, or from which it is desired to keep up a discharge. They soothe the
pain of stomach-ache from any cause, and are of most essential service when constantly applied
in many forms of chest inflammation. And yet not one mother or nurse in ten knows how to make
a poultice.[5] When applied over a wound they should not be covered with oiled silk or any
impermeable material, since the edges of the wound and the adjacent skin are apt thereby to
be rendered irritable and to become covered with little itching pimples. When used to relieve
pain in the stomach, or as a warm application in cases of inflammation of the chest, they should
be covered with some impermeable material, and will then not require to be changed oftener
than every six hours. After poultices have been applied over the chest or stomach for two or
three days the skin is apt to become tender, and then it is well to substitute for them what
may be termed a dry poultice, which is nothing else than a layer of dry cotton wool an inch
or an inch and a half thick, tacked inside a piece of oiled silk.

A handy substitute for a poultice may be made of bran stitched in a flannel bag, heated by
pouring boiling water on it, then squeezed as dry as possible and laid over the painful part.
This is especially useful to relieve the stomach-ache of infants and young children.

