FONTAINE (Comte de), one of the leaders of the Vendee, in 1799, and then known as Grand-Jacques.
[The Chouans.] One of the confidential advisers of Louis XVIII. Field marshal, councillor of
state, comptroller of the extraordinary domains of the realm, deputy and peer of France under
Charles X.; decorated with the cross of the Legion of Honor and the Order of Saint Louis. Head
of one of the oldest houses of Poitou. Had married a Mlle. de Kergarouet, who had no fortune,
but who came of a very old Brittany family related to the Rohans. Was the father of three sons
and three daughters. The oldest son became president of a court, married the daughter of a
multi-millionaire salt merchant. The second son, a lieutenant-general, married Mlle. Monegod,
a rich banker's daughter whom the aunt of Duc d'Herouville had refused to consider for her
nephew. [Modeste Mignon.] The third son, director of a Paris municipality, then director-general
in the Department of Finance, married the only daughter of M. Grossetete, receiver-general
at Bourges. Of the three daughters, the first married M. Planat at Baudry, receiver-general;
the second married Baron de Villaine, a magistrate of bourgeois origin ennobled by the king;
the third, Emilie, married her old uncle, the Comte de Kergarouet, and after his death, Marquis
Charles de Vandenesse. [The Ball at Sceaux.] The Comte de Fontaine and his family were present
at the Birotteau ball, and after the perfumer's bankruptcy procured a situation for him. [Cesar
Birotteau.] He died in 1824. [The Government Clerks.]

FONTAINE (Baronne de), born Anna Grossetete, only daughter of the receiver-general of Bourges.
Attended the school of Mlles. Chamarolles with Dinah Piedefer, who became Mme. de la Baudraye.
Thanks to her fortune she married the third son of the Comte de Fontaine. She removed to Paris
after her marriage and kept up correspondence with her old school-mate who now lived at Sancerre.
She kept her informed as to the prevailing styles. Later at the first performance of one of
Nathan's dramas, about the middle of the reign of Louis Philippe, Anna de Fontaine affected
not to recognize this same Mme. de la Baudraye, then the known mistress of Etienne Lousteau.
[The Muse of the Department.]

FONTANIEU (Madame), friend and neighbor of Mme. Vernier at Vouvray in 1831. The jolliest gossip
and greatest joker in town. She was present at the interview between the insane Margaritis
and Felix Gaudissart, when the drummer was so much at sea. [Gaudissart the Great.]

FONTANON (Abbe), born about 1770. Canon of Bayeux cathedral in the beginning of the nineteenth
century when he "guided the consciences" of Mme. and Mlle. Bontems. In November, 1808, he got
himself enrolled with the Parisian clergy, hoping thus to obtain a curacy and eventually a
bishopric. He became again the confessor of Mlle. Bontems, now the wife of M. de Granville,
and contributed to the trouble of that household by the narrowness of his provincial Catholicism
and his inflexible bigotry. He finally disclosed to the magistrate's wife the relations of
Granville with Caroline Crochard. He also brought sorrow to the last moments of Mme. Crochard,
the mother. [A Second Home.] In December, 1824, at Saint-Roch he pronounced the funeral oration
of Baron Flamet de la Billardiere. [The Government Clerks.] Previous to 1824 Abbe Fontanon
was vicar at the church of Saint Paul, rue Saint-Antoine. [Honorine.] Confessor of Mme. de
Lanty in 1839, and always eager to pry into family secrets, he undertook an affair with Dorlange-Sallenauve
in the interest of Mariannina de Lanty. [The Member for Arcis.]

