There can be only one outcome of such a fight under such circumstances, especially in an heroic
poem. But is not Ulysses himself inhuman and uncharitable toward his poor beggar rival? Certainly
he does not deal with him gently, and the modern reader is apt to think that Ulysses ought
now to have his own test of charity applied to himself. Still his defense is at hand: Irus
sided with the Suitors, had their character, Telemachus says they favored him; he is harsh
and merciless to his seeming fellow-beggar, and so he gets his own, though Ulysses at first
warns him, and wishes to be on good terms with him: "I do not speak or do thee any wrong, nor
do I envy thee getting alms; this threshold is large enough for both of us; thou art a beggar
as well as I. So beware my wrath." Surely a sufficient warning, which, if unheeded, draws down
the fateful consequences.

But the chief justification of the poet lies in the fact that this contest with Irus is sent
before the main conflict as a prototype and a warning. The Suitors looked on and saw the miserable
beggar completely undone; "they threw up their hands and nearly died laughing;" a case of blind
fatuity, for they were soon to be in the place of Irus, every one of them. A little later Telemachus
suggests the connection: "Would that the Suitors might droop their heads overcome in our house,
as now Irus sits at the hall gate with drooping head like a drunken man, and cannot stand erect
or walk home, since his dear limbs have been loosened."

Another note of warning is given specially to Amphinomus, who had extended a very friendly
salutation to Ulysses after the victory, and who was the most honorable man of the Suitors.
Ulysses again resorts to fiction in order to convey his lesson, "Many were the wrongs I did;"
hence my present condition. "Let no men ever work injustice," such as these Suitors are guilty
of; the avenger "I now declare to be not far away from his friends and his country." Hence
the warning: "May some God bring thee home" at once, for bloody will be the decision. But Amphinomus
does not obey, though "his mind foreboded evil;" he remained in the fateful company and afterwards
fell by the hand of Telemachus.

II. The real person for whose possession this whole contest is waged is now introduced--Penelope.
She appears in all her beauty; Pallas interferes divinely in order to heighten the same, making
her "more stately in form and fairer than the ivory just carved." She is indeed the embodiment
of all that is beautiful and worthy in that Ithacan life; loyalty to husband, love of her child,
devotion to family, the strongest institutional feeling she shows, with no small degree of
artifice, of course. Just now she reproves her son for having permitted the recent fight: "thou
hast allowed a stranger guest to be shamefully treated." Thus she shows her secret unconscious
sympathy with her husband in disguise.

Then she turns her attention to the Suitors. The time has come when she has to endure this
hateful marriage; how the thought weighs upon her heart! But we catch a glimpse of her deeper
plan in the following: "The custom of Suitors in the olden time was not such as yours; they
would bring along their own oxen and sheep and make a feast for the friends of the maiden whom
they wooed, and give her splendid gifts; they consumed not other folk's property without recompense."
What does all this mean?

One result takes place at once. The Suitors all hasten to bring her their presents, and thus
conform to the good old time and to her opinion. Great was the hurry: "Each dispatched his
herald to bring a gift." Does the poet hint through a side glance the real state of the case?
Hear him: "Ulysses wad delighted when he saw her wheedling the Suitors out of their gifts and
cajoling their mind with flattering speech, while her heart planned other things." Cunning
indeed she has and boundless artifice; what shall we make of her? As already often said, craft
is her sole woman's weapon against man's violence, and she uses it with effect for the defense
of her home and her honor. Is she justified? Is such deception allowable under the circumstances?
Thus the poem puts the test to the modern reader, and makes him ponder the moral problem of life.

One other point we should note in this speech of Penelope to the Suitors. She says that their
method of wooing was not the accustomed way; they had no right to expect such entertainment
for such a body of men. They had the right of suit, but it must be conducted in a lawful manner.
Thus they are violating custom, or making it a pretext for doing injustice. But she meets violence
with cunning, and rude force with craft.

III. Ulysses now takes note of another phase of the wrong done to his household by the Suitors;
they debauch the female servants, of whom Melantho is an example. The seeming beggar wishes
to stay all night by the fires kindled in the palace, and take care of them, instead of the
maids who usually looked after them. This plan of his evidently interferes with an existing
arrangement, hence the abusive words of Melantho toward him first, and then the scoffing speech
of Eurynomus, her lover, who lets fly at him a footstool which hits the cupbearer. General
confusion results, in the midst of which Telemachus commands order which is seconded by Amphinomus.
After a cup of wine, all retire to their homes. But Ulysses has got an inkling of what is transpiring
between the Suitors and some of the maid-servants. Hereafter we shall see that both share in
the punishment.

Book Nineteenth. This is a strong Book of its kind. Penelope is the center, her difficulties
are shown anew, moreover they are about to reach their culmination. The husband disguised here
tests the wife, and finds out by his own personal observation her fidelity. Her womanly instincts
are still intact, in spite of the dissolute surroundings. Ulysses discovers that he is not
to meet with the fate of Agamemnon on his return home.

From the preceding Book, which was occupied with the external conflicts in the palace, we move
in the present Book more and more to the heart of the business, which is the union in the hearts
of husband and wife. The oneness of the Family after long separation of its two members is
the ethical theme, showing that such union is eternal, as far as the eternal can be shown in
Time. Two divisions we shall mark: Ulysses and his son Telemachus first, then Ulysses and his
wife Penelope.

I. The two men, father and son, are seen preparing for the conflict which is drawing on--just
that being the duty of men. The weapons which were hanging on the walls of the banqueting-room
are removed in the absence of the Suitors and of the servants. Also a pretext is framed for
their removal. Moreover "Pallas, holding before them her golden lamp, made very beautiful light."
Certainly the Goddess was there, the scene shows her in every part; "Such is the wont of the
Olympians," says Ulysses; divine illumination descends upon a work of this kind.

II. But by far the longest portion of the Book is devoted to the interview between Ulysses
and Penelope. Telemachus goes off to his chamber to rest for the night; Ulysses is now received
by his wife at the hearth. The various turns of this lengthy account we shall throw into four
divisions.

1. By way of introduction, the faithless handmaid Melantho again shows her character in a harsh
speech to Ulysses, "Get out, you beggar! Will you still keep sneaking through the house by
night to spy out women?" So she reveals plainly what she is, and even mentions the test which
she cannot stand. Ulysses in his reply enforces charity: "I was once rich, but I gave the poor
wanderer alms." Beware of the day of reckoning: such is his repeated warning to all these people.

Penelope also gives a sharp reproof to the shameless handmaid, and intimates the fate impending:
"Thou hast done a deed which thy head shall atone for." It is again to be noted that the guilty
are the inhuman, while the faithful have charity. Penelope specially shows this trait in the
present Book, though her threat to Melantho is not gentle. Quite as Ulysses served Irus, Penelope
is ready to serve Melantho; both can become uncharitable toward the uncharitable; both can
meet evil with evil, and fight the negative with negation.

2. The main purpose of this portion of the interview is to furnish Penelope with hope. She
seems on the point of giving up the long contest, she has played her last stratagem against
the Suitors. Now she must choose one of them, her parents urge it, her son demands it; there
seems no escape, though she hates the marriage like black Death. In such a frame of mind, the
disguised Ulysses is to divert her thoughts with a story, to gain her confidence in his honesty,
and to give a strong promise of her husband's speedy return. The manner in which he puts these
three points in succession is worthy of study.

First, he must give some account of himself, of his lineage and of his connections. Here he
employs his old fiction, he feigns a tale, putting the scene into Crete, and allying himself
with the famous stock of Minos, as well as with the well-known Cretan hero Idomeneus so often
celebrated in the Iliad, whose brother he claimed to be. "There I saw Ulysses and entertained
him." This story of his life has an analogy to what he told Eumæus (Book XIV. 199) and Antinous
(Book XVII. 425). All three differ in details, being adjusted to the person and the occasion;
still all are cast into the same general mould, with the scene placed in the East on the borderland
toward Phenicia and with the Trojan war in the background. It is another Homeric novelette
suggesting a life of adventure on sea and land, and showing sparks of that enterprising Greek
spirit, of which the Odyssey is the best record. But the poet adds: "So he went on fabricating
lies like truth;" which indicates that he told more than is in the text and completed his story.

In the second place, Penelope applies her test, for she is not so credulous as to believe every
wandering story-teller: "Describe me the garments he had on." Truly a woman's test. It is needless
to say that Ulysses responds with great precision. She, however, had no suspicion, which might
arise from such a complete account. It is no wonder that Penelope proposed to entertain this
beggar guest, one who has been so hospitable to her husband, of whom she declares in an outburst
of despair: "I never shall behold him returning home."

At this point the disguised Ulysses makes his third and principal speech to his wife, imparting
to her the hope that Ulysses will return. This completes his story, introducing the Thesprotians
again (as in other tales) and the oracle of Dodona. He almost lets the secret out: "He is alive
and will soon be here; not far off is he now, I swear it." Not much further could disguise
be carried. Still Penelope remains skeptical: "I must think he will not come home."

3. Having been brought so near to a discovery, we next come to an actual discovery by the nurse
Eurycleia. She is commanded by Penelope to bathe the beggar's feet, which she does with no
little sympathy and lamentation. The character of the nurse is in a certain sense the echo
of that of Penelope, the echo in emotion, and in fidelity, if not in intelligence. She gives
way to her feelings, she recalls the image of Ulysses, whom she nursed, and addresses him as
present. She beholds in the stranger the resemblance at the start. "I have never yet seen any
one so like Ulysses as thou art in body, voice and feet." We now observe that Ulysses really
selects Eurycleia, "a certain old woman, discreet, who has endured as much as I have: she may
touch my feet" (line 346). He sought for some confidant among the servants, one who might be
needed for important duties before and during the fight; Eurycleia is chosen, since Ulysses
knew that she would discover the scar on his foot and thus recognize him. All of which takes
place, Ulysses exacts secrecy, and she replies, giving a hint of her character as well as the
reason why she was chosen: "Thou knowest my firmness, I shall hold like the solid rock or iron."

There is a long narrative pertaining to the manner in which Ulysses received the wound which
caused the scar. Much fault has been found with this story for various reasons, but it gives
a certain relief as well as epical fullness to the movement of the Book. It is, however, one
of those passages which may have been interpolated--or may not, and just there the argument
stands. It traces the character of Ulysses back to his grandfather Antolycus, the most cunning
of mortals, and also gives the etymology (fanciful probably) of the name of Ulysses. (Odysseus,
the Greek form of Ulysses, is here derived from a Greek word meaning to be angry.)

4. After the bath Ulysses returns to the hearth where Penelope is still sitting. She tells
her dream of the eagle which destroyed her geese, and which then spoke by way of interpretation:
"The geese are the Suitors and I, once the eagle, am now thy husband." Such is the deep-lying
presentiment of Penelope, indicated by the dream, which crops out in spite of her declared
skepticism. Note that she dreams not only the dream but also dreams its interpretation; surely
she is conscious of some hope now.

The legend at the end of the Book, which tells of the two Gates of Dreams, one of ivory and
one of horn, has roused much curiosity among readers about its purport, and has inspired much
imitation from later poets. Through the Gate of Horn (dimly transparent) comes the true dream;
through the Gate of Ivory (polished on the outside, but letting no light through) comes the
false dream. Such is the more common explanation, but Eustathius derives the whole story from
two puns on Greek words for horn and ivory. At any rate there are the two sorts of dreams,
one getting the impress of the future event, the other being merely subjective.

But Penelope has another suggestion, which is found widely scattered in folk-lore, the Bending
of the Bow. This incident, however, is developed in a later Book. It is one of her schemes
to defer the hated marriage, after the new hope given by the stranger. She will not yet give up.

Book Twentieth. This book is devoted to describing more fully the situation in the house of
Ulysses just before the slaying of the Suitors. The guilty and the guiltless are indicated
anew, with fresh incidents; especially the fatuity of the Suitors is set forth in a variety
of ways. The scene is in the palace.

The Book may be divided into three portions, which deal with (1) the royal pair, (2) the servants
faithful and faithless, (3) the Suitors at their banquet.

I. Ulysses is lying on the porch, restless, unable to sleep; he sees the disloyal women of
the household come forth to the embraces of the Suitors. He commands himself: "Endure it, heart;
thou hast borne worse than this." Pallas has at last to come and to answer his two troublesome
thoughts: "How shall I, being only one, slay the Suitors, being many?" And still, that is not
the end. "How shall I escape afterward, if I succeed?" Wherein we may note already a hint of
the last Book of the Odyssey. Pallas reproves him, yet gives him assurance. "If fifty bands
of men should surround us," still we shall win, "for I am a God, and I guard thee always in
thy labors." Whereupon Ulysses at once went to sleep.

