The little village of Clifton has now become a handsome suburb, where reside the wealthy successors
of the merchant-venturers of Bristol. It is continuous with Bristol, and where the one begins
or the other ends is not evident except to the parish authorities. The downs are what they
were in Pope's time, with the exception of what is now their most striking feature--the suspension
bridge across the chasm. As early as 1753, Mr. Vick, an alderman of Bristol, bequeathed one
thousand pounds, to be kept at interest until they should reach ten thousand, when the amount
was to be expended upon a stone bridge across the Avon. Nearly eighty years after, in 1830,
the fund had reached eight thousand pounds, and it was determined to form a company to push
forward the project: a plan for a suspension bridge by Mr. Brunel was accepted at an estimated
cost of fifty-seven thousand pounds, and subscriptions were vigorously solicited. On the 27th
of August, 1836, the foundation-stone was laid in the presence of the members of the British
Association for the Advancement of Science, then holding its sixth annual meeting in Bristol.
The work went on slowly for seven years, at the end of which it was abandoned for want of funds,
forty-five thousand pounds having been expended, including the legacy of eight thousand. For
nearly twenty years the towers and abutments stood, unsightly objects in a lovely scene, until
in 1860 the Hungerford suspension bridge in London was taken down, and it was found that its
chains might be made use of to carry out the uncompleted plan at Clifton. A new company was
formed with a capital of thirty-five thousand pounds, in ten-pound shares, and at length, in
December, 1864, the bridge was thrown open to the public. Its span is seven hundred and two
feet; height from low water, two hundred and eighty-seven feet. An inscription on one of the
piers thus epitomizes its story: "Suspensa vix via fit."

There are many reflections which may be called up by a glance over the brink of the chasm at
Clifton. Down this muddy ditch dropped the little Matthew, with the Cabots in command, bound
for the discovery of America; borne on the surface of this liquid mud, the Great Western (built
at Bristol) found its way to the sea and demonstrated the practicability of steam traffic with
America; and if you ask why Bristol now has so little share in that traffic, although reasons
as plenty as blackberries will be showered upon you, perhaps you will find as convincing a
reason as any in the sight of this narrow and tortuous channel. Now, at last, docks are being
built at the mouth of the Avon, and one adapted to the largest vessels was opened on the 24th
of February, 1877. The prospects of present success cannot be brilliant in the prevalent depression
of the Atlantic trade, yet, to have heard the wild talk in February, one would have thought
that the dock had only to open its mouth (or gate) to have the great plums of trade at once
fall into it. The company is too wise to expect to catch birds simply by hanging out a cage:
every one waits to see what bait they will offer. It is claimed that the passage from New York
to Avonmouth may be made in a day less than to the Mersey, and mails and passengers forwarded
thence to London in three hours. May we soon have the pleasure of welcoming American friends
on Avonmouth Dock!

ALFRED S. GIBBS.

AN ATELIER DES DAMES.

After years of patient endeavor, of hope deferred and heart oftentimes made sick, Paletta found
herself at last in Paris. Behind her were years of anxious calculations and shabby economies,
a chequered pathway of brilliant ambitions and sombre discouragements. Before her was another
vista of several years of art-study in the great capital--a vista arched, she could not but
know, by as heavy clouds as had ever darkened her path. Yet she felt, even although she could
not see its end, that the forward vista climbed ever upward toward glorious heights, upon which
the storms of despair never beat, and where she could more nearly touch upon the divine ideals
that ever elude the grasp of even the loftiest of earth's climbers.

And thus she was content. Paletta was yet a little young, it must be said, yet in that blessed
youthfulness when the loins are girded with the strength that reduces mountains to molehills
and forces the Apollyon of dismay to flee from out every dark valley.

Behold Paletta--twenty-three years of age, with a winy color upon her lips, the faintest perceptible
shadow of fading upon the roses of her cheeks, a little anxious wrinkle between her earnest
gray eyes, a slight nasal twang in her New England voice, and a fresh flounce upon her old
black alpaca dress--the first morning of her experience in an atelier des dames in Paris! She
had come down the hill from her dark little room on Montmartre, fancying that the gray December
day was crystalline, that the dingy Rue Germain Pillon--with its dirty gamins of both sexes
in cropped hair and blouses or white caps and black gowns, its frowsy women slouching in doorways,
its succession of odorous cuisines bourgeoises, vile-smelling lavoirs, cheap fruit-shops and
plebeian crémeries, its slimy cobblestones, its gutters running not with laughing waters, and
sending up scents not of spicy isles ensphered by sun-illumined seas--was a rainbow arch over
which she passed with airy tread toward the Krug studio. For had she not at last finished for
ever the detestable photograph-coloring which had been a daily crucifixion of all her artistic
feelings for years? Had she not at last reached the Enchanted Land for which she had labored
and pined for half her life? Had she not clothes enough to last her with patient mendings and
persistent remakings for two years? Had she not a thousand dollars at the Crédit Lyonnais?
And did not that stately entrance before her lead into a spacious courtyard, and that courtyard
open upon the famous Atelier des Dames, where, at the feet of celebrated masters of form and
color, she was to learn some of the mysteries of the art to which she had vowed her life?

Within the court, before the handsome building whose story after story of immense north windows
showed it to be a collection of artists' studios, she found an interesting tableau vivant.
A group of chattering models came laughing across the sunny court. In one corner loomed a huge
square object surmounted by the conical crown of a Tyrolean hat. Nothing else was visible except
a pair of gaitered feet mixed among the legs of a sketching-easel, making the whole seem some
queer phenomenal creature which science had not yet classified or named. Before this phenomenon
stood--or rather fidgeted--a beautiful Arabian horse with flashing eyes, and limbs clean cut
as if by Doric chisel in marble of Pentelicus. This superb animal was held by two grooms, one
at his head, the other holding first one foot, then another, as the order to pose the unwilling
model fractionally in the attitude of a prancing, curveting Bucephalus came from the square,
five-legged, unnamed creature in the corner.

"Ah!" thought Paletta as she followed her shadow over the sunny pavement, "the famous animal-painter
Jacques is behind that great square canvas, I know, for I saw him there yesterday painting
a struggling sheep."

The large room was closely packed with easels--so closely, indeed, that an inadvertent motion
of hand or foot often sent a wave of excitement through the whole atelier. Heads of every color,
from youthful flaxen to venerable gray, were bent over their labors. Hecubas and Helens worked
side by side; maulsticks everywhere gave the scene the appearance of a winter-denuded thicket;
plaster hands, feet and torsos hung upon the walls; bull-headed Nero swelled upon a shelf beside
the mutilated Venus which is a revelation of the glory that merely human beauty can attain
without a gleam borrowed from the divine; fat Vitellius seemed to snore open-eyed beside lean
and wakeful Julius Cæsar; a mask of Medusa leaned lovingly upon the shoulder of Dante; Apollo
Belvedere smiled upon an écorché--in atelier parlance "skun man;" finished and unfinished studies
of heads, bodies and detached sections of bodies hung from nails in every possible and impossible
place. Upon a slightly elevated platform sat the model in his usual street-costume, with oily
hair, parted in the middle, falling in long waves upon his shoulders. A spiky circle rested
upon his brow, and upon his face was such a stupendous yet futile effort after an expression
of divine sweetness and resignation as caused maulsticks to separate themselves every now and
then from the denuded thicket and to wabble vaguely about his mouth or play wildly in his hair,
accompanied by the commands, "Posez la bouche!" "Posez les yeux!" or, in good American accents,
accompanied with a sniff of wrath, "Call him a good Christ? Umph! He'd pose better as a first-class
Cheshire cat."

The model's divine smile broadened suddenly into a very human grin.

"Do you understand English, monsieur?" demanded Miss New Haven suspiciously, remembering the
freedom with which the personal merits and defects of the French and Italian models were usually
discussed in their presence in the Anglo-Saxon tongue.

"A leetle, mademoiselle: I have lived in Londres during two years."

"As artists' model?"

"Oui, mademoiselle. I have made the Jesuses, the St. Johns and the Judases for the great English
artists teel I have ennuied myself énormement."

"Why?"

"Because ze artists Anglaise are ze masters vairy difficile, not comme les artists Français.
Zey demand zat ze model pose during two hours sans repose, and zey nevvair give of to drink
to ze model."

"Did you return to Paris when you ennuied yourself so énormement?" asked a yellow-haired English
girl who had painted countless vaporous and ravishing Eurydices and filmy Echoes from broad-waisted,
pug-nosed Cockney models, and who always declared that she would recognize a "professional"
even among the shining hosts of heaven.

"Non, mademoiselle. I rested at Londres to make la musique."

"The music?"

"Comme ça;" and the Italian made sundry rotary motions of the arm, as if grinding an invisible
hand-organ.

"Did you earn more money with the music or as model?" asked Mademoiselle Émilie, the girl-artist
from Madrid, with black hair dyed golden, who always swore by Murillo's Virgins, and who did
her work dreamily, as if the motions of her hands were timed to the languorous rhythm of some
far-off, daintily-touched guitar beneath vine-wreathed balcony and starlit sky.

"In Londres I gained more money as musician. In Angleterre zere is not mooch love of ze Christ,
ze St. John and ze Judas. It is not a Catholic country, comme la France, and ze Anglaises aime
bettaire ze gods of ze old Greek hommes. In la France zey aime ze true religion, and I gain
mooch money, and am in ze Salon many times evairy year, because I am ze best Christ in Paris."

A wail swept up from French, American, English, Swedish, Spanish, Norwegian, Russian and West
Indian bosoms.

"We'll embrace the religion and the gods of the old Greek hommes then, or throw ourselves into
the profoundest gulfs of infidelity, while we remain in Paris," ejaculated Bostonia in a vigorous
stage-aside.

"Have you a wife?" asked Madame Deschamps, a fashionable portrait-painter.

"Oui, madame. Ma femme is Lucreza, whom you know. She has made the nymphs and goddesses for
a thousand pictures, but now she is so much fat that the messieurs will have her only for the
head, although she still poses for the ensemble in the ateliers des dames."

Here the best Christ in Paris grinned satanically as a polyglot howl went up from among the
students.

"That's his tit for the tat of the 'Cheshire cat,'" laughed Madame Lafarge, a French-American
Corinne with an all-French moustache.

"We won't have Lucreza again if she is too fat to pose for the nude except in a ladies' studio,"
snapped the elder Swede.

"Oh, I have forgotten to say zat she has upset ze pail since eight days," chuckled the man.

"Upset the pail?" And twenty pairs of eyes looked full of interrogation-points.

"Giggle! giggle! giggle!" came sputteringly from behind Concordia's easel as she gasped, "Don't
you understand? He has improved his English among the Americans in Gérôme's studio, and he
means she kicked the bucket eight days ago."

"Quelle langue! quelle langue est la langue Américaine!" sniffed the elder Swede, wiping off
a brushful of "turps" in her back hair.

Paletta twisted her head so as to peer through the forest of easels at the last speaker.

"What daubs she must make!" she thought, gazing at spectacled green eyes and hay-colored hair
à la Chinoise with her fixed idea that "an artistic nature always wrought a semblance of its
own beauty upon its outward form."

"What was the Greek religion?" questioned a girlish voice.

Paletta twisted her neck again. "What lovely ideals must blossom upon her canvases!" she thought
as she saw a fair vision of rose-tints, creamy texture and sculptured lines ensphered in a
halo of golden hair.

"Who is that poor woman who has so mistaken her vocation?" she asked with compassionate gesture
toward the coiffure à la Chinoise.

"That? Oh, that's the celebrated Swedish artist, Miss Thingumbobbia, of whom you have heard,
of course. She returns to Stockholm next week to paint the king's portrait. Mon Dieu! but I
would give all my hair for the genius of her little finger!" answered pretty Mademoiselle Hubert,
scraping her palette viciously, as if it were responsible for her artistic inferiority to the
gifted Thingumbobbia.

"O-o-o-h!" gasped Paletta. "But who is the sweet creature with golden hair, who looks infused
with fair ideals to her very finger-tips?"

"She? Oh, she's Miss Araminta Shoddy from Michigan Avenue, Chicago, who is finishing her education
in Paris. She comes here twice a week for drawing-lessons from the antique, and also in pursuit
of general information, I should think, judging from her questions. Only yesterday she said,
'Ladies, who can tell me the costume of the Venus de Melos? I have an idea that it would be
stunning for my next fancy-dress ball!'"

"Ladies," cried Miss San Francisco, invisible among the easels, "has Professor Manley given
out the subject of our composition for next week?"

"Yes," answered a dozen voices--"'The Flight into Egypt.'"

"Oh, Miss Shoddy, Miss Shoddy, will you pose for my Virgin Mother?" cried another dozen.

"Oh, Mees Shoddy, if you will pose for my Madonna I will pose for yours," echoed the Raphaelesque
Thingumbobbia.

Just before noon the forest of easels swayed slightly beneath a breeze of excitement. A masculine
step was heard at the door. The model's expression became if not divine, at least superhuman.
The ladies ceased their chatter, and plied their brushes and crayons with increased diligence.
The morning professor entered, and passed from easel to easel, commending this, criticising
that, rebuking something else, making a few touches of the brush upon several canvases, crossing
others with a network of charcoal-lines to prove inaccuracy of drawing, distributed très biens
and pas mals judiciously, and then with a pleasant "Bon jour, mesdames," passed away, leaving
behind him about an equal measure of delight and dismay.

"I hope his bed-clothes will always come up at the foot!" growled Austina, whose canvas looked
like a map of a humming-bird's flight done in charcoal.

"Let's all subscribe and buy The Angel a bouquet for Christmas," gushed enthusiastically the
British blonde Godsalina, upon whom one of the pas mals had fallen, and who had the true faith
of her nation in the efficacy of "tips" for sovereign or beggar.

Then the model stretched his legs, returned to his normal and carnal expression of countenance,
and disappeared to return no more till the morrow, leaving the platform vacant awaiting the
nude female model who was engaged for the afternoon. The atelier was abandoned to Sophie, the
femme de ménage, who stirred the fires, gathered stray brushes from the floor, changed the
background drapery for the afternoon model, rearranged the easels into afternoon position,
and brought out glasses and plates for the ladies, who lunched in the anteroom. And then a
looker-on in a Parisian atelier des dames would readily have understood the words, "He's gone,
girls!" even were that looker-on deafer than the deafest old woman who ever mistook a thunder-clap
for one of her lord's champion snores. In the anteroom conversation ran during lunch in various
channels. Some of the ladies discussed the ever-absorbing topic of the price of living, and
boasted of marvellous exploits in the way of economy. Other and fewer students, to whom money
was as the dust upon the bust of Pallas over the studio-door, talked of the last "first representations"
at the Français, of Croisette's rapidly amplifying figure, of Sarah Bernhardt's unnecessary
immodesty in dressing Racine's Andromaque, of the Grant reception at Healy's, of Lefevre's
slipperiness of texture, of the lack of the true sentiment of piety in Bouguereau's religious
pictures, of the harum-scarum amusements among the Americans at Bonnât's atelier, and the latest
gossip of the private studios.

"Want to know where you can buy just h-e-a-venly cheese for a franc a pound?" mumbles young
Madame New Jersey with her mouth full of Gruyère.

"Where?" from several excited listeners.

"Over in the Latin Quarter, close by the Rue Jacob Brasserie, where so many American students
hold daily symposia."

"I'll go and buy a quarter of a pound this very evening," said Miss Providence energetically.

"I too! I too! et moi aussi!" cried others of the many who lived à la Bohémienne in lofty mansards
of maisons meublées, dining at cheap restaurants, breakfasting by aid of spirit-lamps from
corners of dressing-tables and lunching on charcuterie in the anteroom of the Krug studio,
searching high and low for "cheapness" as for a pearl of great price.

"And pay twelve sous for your omnibus fare!" cried the practical little Illinois maiden, Dixonia.

"Je suis à vous, mesdames," said the favorite model, Alphonse, at the door.

"Alas, sweet Adonis! we have engaged our people for the next three weeks."

"And I am desolé, mesdames, that you have not want of me;" and the graceful Alphonse melted
away like a snow-wreath in a south wind.

At one o'clock came the sallow Frenchwoman, with the face of a Gorgon and the figure of a Juno,
who posed for the ensemble. She stood against the dark crimson background, outlined pure and
white like a marvel of Phidian sculpture upon which the Spirit of Life had slightly breathed.
So still, so white, so coldly, purely statuesque she seemed, that one sometimes entirely forgot
that she was else than the fair statue born from the block of marble at the command of a divine
genius, till the chiselled arms were seen to quiver and the sculptured knees to almost bend.
Then a reproachful cry ran through the atelier: "Shame! shame! We have forgotten that she was
a woman and not a statue, and have kept her posing two hours without a repose."

"How much do you earn by this wearisome business?" asked Paletta pityingly as the tired model,
wrapped in a threadbare waterproof, cowered over the stove during "the repose."

"If I pose for a half day of each week like this in an atelier des dames, I earn twenty-five
francs a week, but what I earn by posing for artists in private studios depends much upon chance.
Sometimes I am needed only for a leg or arm or bust, or even hand: then I earn less of course,
for it makes broken hours. I would demand much more from the ateliers des dames had I a handsome
face, but always my ensemble is painted with the head of a prettier model where there is any
purpose of using me in a picture."

"Do you become often as fatigued as you are now?" continued Paletta.

"Often more so. I have posed for nearly an hour upon one foot with extended arms in a dance
of bacchantes, till I have fainted. Oftentimes I am kept in a running position upon one foot,
with the other far behind me, in Atalanta's race; sometimes suspended by cords from the ceiling,
with arms and legs in horribly uncomfortable positions, till everything seems to spin before me."

"Do you dislike to pose for male artists?" asked Paletta.

"Dislike? Why should I with so fine a figure as this?" answered the woman, throwing off her
cloak to resume her pose. "I'd like it better if I had a handsome face, but I'd like it much
worse if I had flabby flesh or buniony feet."

Paletta saw that no question of modesty entered the model's mind, and she went back to her
easel to paint the rounded limbs and marble huelessness of fair Dian, chastest of all Olympia's
deities, wondering if, after all, what is called modesty does not come as much of habit as
of nature--if the veiled face of the Oriental is not as immodest as the unclothedness of the
artist's model.

MARGARET B. WRIGHT.

"AUF DEM HEIMWEG."

    Thy light streams far, thou gladdening star,
      O'er vale and forest, tower and town:
    From land and sea men look to thee,
      In every clime, as night comes down.
    But ah! were all the eyes that mark
      Thy rising, closed in endless dark,
    Undimmed would glitter still
      Thy bright unpitying spark!

    I heed thee not. In yonder cot,
      As home I haste, from toil set free,
    Through dusk and damp the casement-lamp
      Shines clear across the fields for me.
    Dear light! dear heart! how well I know,
    If bitter Death should lay me low,
      Dark would that casement be,
    And quenched your winsome glow!

MARY KEELY BOUTELLE.

THROUGH WINDING WAYS.

CHAPTER I.

"I can't reach it," declared Georgy. "You boys are all growing so tall that a girl has to mount
on stilts in order to go about with you."

"I will find a log," said I, looking about us.

"Come!" struck in Jack Holt, laughing, "make a footstool of me, Georgy;" and without another
word he flung himself flat on his face. She was never loath to put her foot upon any of our
necks, figuratively speaking, and now, with a burst of laughter, she took Jack at his word,
and planting herself on his shoulders peered down through the coils of Virginia creeper into
the cunningly devised bird's nest in the hollow of an oak tree. There were five delicately
tinted eggs, and she tried in vain to squeeze her slim hand through the aperture and possess
herself of them.

"Getting tired, Jack?" she asked presently.

"No," he answered, his face still kissing the moss: "I don't tire so easily in your service,
Georgy."

I felt rather bitter against them both. I would have died to serve this girl, I told myself,
yet such an opportunity left me dull and cold. I was always dreaming of doughty deeds to please
her, yet if she dropped her handkerchief I could hardly stoop to pick it up.

"Oh, get up, Jack!" cried Harry Dart, whose lip had been curling in angry scorn as he watched
the performance: "you are by far too good to be trodden under foot by any girl, let alone Georgy
Lenox."

Georgy tripped down from her temporary throne and made Harry a little courtesy. "Do you mean
to say that you would not be glad to be trodden under foot by Georgy Lenox?" she asked, laughing
and tossing her curls.

He gave a contemptuous shrug: "Wait until I give you an opportunity. Floyd and I don't make
fools of ourselves for any girls."

"Come, come, Harry!" said Jack, who had risen from the ground and was now wiping off the earth-stains
from his clothes, "don't spoil our day by being disagreeable.--Shall we go on, Georgy?" He
gave her a peculiar glance in which there was less of humility than gentle command, and she
sprang after him and put her hand within his arm. He did not serve her for rewards as yet,
and was used to as many blows as smiles, and this was a rare condescension on her part.

Georgy was fifteen--of the same age as Harry, but considerably younger than Jack, who was two
years older than his cousin, while I was the youngest of the three. We had been playmates all
our lives, and had each of us found in Georgy Lenox the only girl-friend of our boyhood. She
had been a beauty from her infancy, and her wiles had grown with her growth and strengthened
with her strength; and now her myriad tricks of mischief, caprice and cruelty were too closely
identified with what was most bewitching in her not to have become additional charms for us.
In those days, while we were still hobbledehoys, she pleased us the more that she had, with
the precocity of her sex, quite outstripped us where all subtle social forces are concerned.
Although she could be a hoyden still, it was quite as easy for her to assume the part of an
elegant young lady, equipped for society with charming manners, a fastidious taste and indifferent
ease. We occasionally laughed at her airs, but inwardly admired her superb assumptions of careless
superiority: had she become timid, docile, admiring toward us, I dare say her reign would not
have lasted the day out.

Harry flung his arm about me, and we followed Jack and Georgy deeper and deeper into the wood.
It was the last Saturday in May, and the fairest day of the year. The thickets were full of
mysterious sounds, and one could almost feel the beating of the delicate pulses of the springing,
expanding life about us. I knew all the secrets of this forest, and loved no place half so
well in Belfield outside of my own home. Nature, too, seemed tenderer of it than of other wildnesses,
and had set the seal of her choice upon it with every gift of fern and vine and moss and lichen.
No axe had invaded these solitudes for years except to prune away a too riotous undergrowth
along the cart-path: the trees grew in grand natural aisles, and to look through the noble
colonnade into mysterious vistas of copsewood gloom and stillness was for me to thrill with
that blissful agony of youthful emotion which is our first premonition of the unreachable secret
that underlies the universe.

"Did you ever think," said Harry to me earnestly, "that you would like to leave the world behind
you for ever and live altogether in the woods, with only the trees and birds for company?"

But, dearly although I loved the woods, I could not answer him that I should be willing to
resign my home, my mother, my friends and social joys for the life of a hermit.

"It's pleasant to see people," I suggested.

"I'm not sure of that," Harry rejoined with sudden misanthropy. "See what a hard world it is!
I feel to-day like Achilles in his tent."

"But I don't like Achilles: he was only sullen because he had lost Briseis. Surely, Harry,
you don't mind it that Georgy has gone on with Jack?"

Harry laughed loud and long: "That would be a good joke! As if I cared for Georgy Lenox! But
it does make me angry to see Jack so taken up with her. Did you see her new shoes?"

There could be no question of that.

"Jack bought them for her," said Harry with angry emphasis. "He spends all his money on her,
and I think it is a shame. She told him at first she could not come to-day, because she had
nothing to wear on her feet except thin slippers. What does Jack do but post off to John Edwards
and buy her a pair of boots at once!" He paused a moment, then burst out: "Just look at them!"

Georgy had flung her flowers at Jack, and having jumped across the little brook which meandered
through the wood, now nodded at him defiantly, tossing her long curls, while her eyes sparkled
and her color rose. He too sprang over the stream, with pretended anger, and she gave a little
shriek and flew down the path, with him in pursuit. Jack was clumsy and not built for speed,
while Georgy had the spring of a fawn; but I suspect she was willing to be caught, for when
we next gained a glimpse of them she was sitting on a stump fanning herself with her broad-brimmed
hat, which had fallen off, while he was leaning against a tree looking at her.

"He has kissed her--I know he has," Harry whispered to me with a bitter look. "I would die
before I would kiss her when she behaved like that!"

I was in a sort of tremor. I was too young to be in love in the ordinary sense of the phrase,
but I was aghast at the thought of the bloom of her cheeks and lips being plucked like roses
in a hedgerow. She was precious to my imagination, yet, for all her every-day reality, scarcely
nearer to my aspirations than Lady Edith Plantagenet or Ellen, Lady of the Lake.

"I don't care," muttered Harry doggedly--"I don't care. I dare say he means to marry her when
he grows up, but I don't care."

"Floyd," called out Georgy, "can't you show me another bird's nest?"

Now I knew at least a hundred birds' nests in these woods. All Wednesday afternoon I had nestled
here in the thickets and watched the little builders hopping from moss to bough and twig, and
had learned all their secrets. I knew that by the great rock just behind where she was sitting
was a ledge with shelving sides overhung with moss, and that there, so cunningly wrought and
hidden that none but a trained eye could ever have discovered it, was an exquisite nest formed
of lichens. Half ashamed of disclosing such a sacred confidence, I led Georgy up to it. Last
Wednesday it was barely finished: now there were three eggs in it. It was a wood-pewee's nest,
and while I let her peep the mother-bird flew toward us with a shrill pathetic cry.

"Hush, you horrid thing!" cried Georgy to the alarmed bird, that circled about us with cries
growing every moment more piercing.--"Is not that perfectly sweet? I never saw anything prettier."

I had only consented that she should give one glance, and I now tried to coax her away; but
nothing would content her but to hold two of the eggs in her hand, and while she held them
her foot slipped and they fell to the ground, and she trod upon them.

"Oh, Georgy!" I cried angrily, "that is too horribly careless of you: I cannot forgive you."

"The idea!" she returned, laughing. "Do look at him, boys!--as white as a ghost just because
I broke those wretched eggs! Look at that furious little bird! I declare it is ready to peck
my eyes out! There, madam! now you may go to work and lay some more eggs;" and she took the
sole remaining egg from the nest and flung it with wanton cruelty into the thicket.

I was cut to the heart. Both Jack and Harry came up to me, but I shook them off and sat down
upon a fallen trunk, and would not say a word in answer to their inquiries or consolations.
Presently they wandered down the woods together, and left me there alone. The owners of the
despoiled nest kept up a loud, emphatic chirping for a time, which drew all the other birds
to discover its cause. I felt as if they looked at me with wonder and resentment in their innocent
eyes. But after a time the tumult of sorrow passed and the usual forest sounds returned: the
whir of partridge-wings smote the air, and I heard the tender coo of the mother-hen; then the
wind rose and blew through the tree-tops, and the blossoming boughs moved restlessly, no longer
filtering green sunshine through their transparent leaves, but disclosing a gathering storm
in the glimpses I gained of the sky above. I knew a short cut through the wood which led to
the hill at the back of my mother's house, and when I heard Harry's voice calling me I sprang
like a deer into the covert, and before the rain came had reached home.

Georgy's wanton cruelty had wounded me deeply, but my allegiance to our girl-queen was not
easily thrown off; and seizing an umbrella I flew back to the woods to offer it to Georgy,
who received it kindly, glad of shelter from the sudden shower. I was as proud of her smile
and good-natured thanks as a dog is proud of his master's scant caress after a sound beating.

The fair May day ended in rain, and, as usual on Saturdays, my three mates finished the afternoon
with me. Jack took his books and went sturdily at his Greek; Harry drew pictures by the dozen;
Georgy was reading Queechy, nestled in my mother's chair by the bay-window; and I was deep
in one of the Waverley novels. Banners streamed, bugles blew, spears gleamed, knights jostled
in my world. Oh for a wet afternoon again like that twenty-five years ago, with the monotonous
patter of rain in my ears, to go back to Coeur de Lion and Edith and Saladin! And not alone
the time and the books, and the old high heart with the old longings and resolves, and the
old fearless eyes to look out upon the world, but the old companions as well, with their glorious
boy-faces, untouched then by any imprint of the base emotions and aims sure almost, a little
later, to enter in and defile! The rain pattered ceaselessly; the heavy scent of the lilacs
came in through the open windows; the martins screamed about their boxes under the eaves of
the stable, and I could hear the twitter of innumerable birds; but with the consciousness of
all this I had no thought except of my rapture for Kenneth when the dog sprang at the throat
of Conrad.

"Floyd," said Georgy, putting her hand on my arm, "don't you hear the door-bell? Ann went out
an hour ago."

Our service was not numerous, and if Ann had gone out, as was her wont when she found a moment's
leisure, there was no one to answer the bell but myself. I rose heavily and unwillingly, and
walked along the little hall, my eyes still glued upon the page, hardly raising them when I
opened, the door until I saw, instead of some indifferent neighbor, a tall gentleman, quite
strange to Belfield, who was shutting his dripping umbrella. He was very tall, stately, broad-shouldered,
with an impassive but handsome face, and a glance at once quiet and commanding. He regarded
me with an amused smile, as if he knew me very well, and something about him gradually renewed
a sort of recollection in me.

"How do you do?" he asked as I stood squarely in the doorway staring at him.

"I am quite well, sir," I returned gravely.

"What is your name?" he inquired, laughing.

"James Floyd Randolph," I answered.

"I am James Floyd," said he. "Suppose you invite me in?"

I led the way silently back to the dull, chilly sitting-room, where Jack and Harry still sat
at the table, while Georgy was peeping out to catch a glimpse of the new arrival. Mr. Floyd,
having put his umbrella in the rack and taken off his hat and overcoat, followed me, casting
a look about the room as he entered, as if he missed somebody he expected to see.

"My mother is not at home, sir," I observed, sitting down stiffly on the edge of a chair: "she
has gone to spend the afternoon with a sick lady."

"She will return presently?"

"Oh, she will certainly be at home to tea, sir," I answered; and then, remarking that he gave
a shrug as he glanced at the wide-open casements, I closed both windows, went to the closet,
brought wood and kindlings and built a fire on the hearth.

"You are a boy of much nice discrimination," remarked Mr. Floyd. "Now that you have a temperature
not altogether conducive to lumbago, I will venture to sit down. Do you know who I am?"

"Oh yes, sir: you are Mr. James Floyd, the gentleman I was named after."

"Has your mother often spoken of me?"

"Oh yes, sir," I said again, and at once observed that his face brightened up.

"And who are these young people?" he inquired, apparently noticing the group by the table for
the first time.

I introduced them, and Mr. Floyd shook hands with Jack, put his hand under Harry's chin and
looked keenly into his chiselled, beautiful face; then gave another glance at Georgy, to whom
he had first bowed.

"Miss Lenox?" he repeated. "Any relation of George Lenox?"

"Oh yes, sir: I am his daughter," cried Georgy, blushing and dimpling. "I am third cousin to
your little girl: Mr. Raymond at The Headlands is my great-uncle."

"Yes, of course. How is your father?"

"Papa is pretty well."

"He was first cousin of my wife," said Mr. Floyd, "and I have met him, I believe."

The door-bell rang again.

"That is Antonio Thorpe," observed Mr. Floyd--"a young friend of mine for whom I want to get
board and lodging in Belfield. Can any of you recommend a place? He is a lad of eighteen or
nineteen, and will probably study under your own masters."

"Mamma would be very glad to have a boarder," struck in Georgy earnestly. "There is a nice
large room for him."

I ushered in the new-comer, a slim fellow of my own height, but looking immeasurably older,
with a delicate black moustache and a coat which fitted in a way to shame anything in Belfield.

"Well, well, Tony!" said Mr. Floyd: "you followed quickly upon my footsteps; but all the better,
perhaps, as I have already heard of a suitable place for you to settle. This young lady, Miss
Lenox, thinks her mother may be able to accommodate you: perhaps she will be good enough to
take you home now and introduce you, referring her family to me."

Thorpe bowed with a very finished air, and presently was walking off in the rain with Georgy,
holding his umbrella over her in a manner truly Grandisonian. Harry and Jack also went away,
and I was left alone with my guardian; for, although I had never seen him since my father's
funeral eight years before, my guardian I knew him to be. He called me up to him, flung his
arm over my shoulder and looked into my eyes. "My dear boy!" said he in a kind voice, and kissed
me on the forehead. "You remember me a little, don't you?" he asked.

"I remember you now very well: at first it seemed all gone from me."

"No wonder. I have been in Europe eight years. My little girl is ten years old, and had never
seen me since she was the merest baby. She was afraid of me at first."

But not for long, I was sure of that: nobody, man, woman or child, could look into his face
and not love and trust him.

"I want to see your mother," he exclaimed with a sudden flash of expression over his tranquil
face. "Your mother is all that is left to me of my youth: I have come back an old man."

