"Style?" she repeated impressively, "style? Seems like Emma couldn't never have enough of it.
Where she got it I don't know. I wasn't never much for dress, and give her Popper coat and
pants, twuz all he wanted. But Emma--ef you want to make her happy tie a bow onto suthin'."

Mrs. Tuttle nodded with ostentatious understanding. Rising, she seized Romeo's cage and placed
it more conspicuously near her. She was critically watched by the older women. They viewed
the thing with mingled feelings, one or two going so far as to murmur darkly, "Her and her parrot!"

Still, the lady's elegance and the known fact that she owned and operated her own automobile
cast a spell over most of her observers, and many faces, as Mrs. Tuttle proceeded to draw out
her pet, were screwed into watchful and ingratiating benevolence.

Romeo, a blasé bird with the air of having bitter memories, affected for a long time not to
hear his mistress's blandishments. After looking contemptuously into his seed-cup, he crept
slowly around the sides of his cage, fixing a cynical eye upon all observers.

"How goes it, Romeo?" appealed Mrs. Tuttle. Making sounds supposed to be appreciated by birds,
the lady put her feathered head down, suggesting, "Ah there, Romeo?"

"Rubberneck," returned Romeo sullenly. To show general scorn, the bird revolved on one claw
round and round his swing; he looked dangerous, repeating, "Rubberneck."

At this an interested group gathered around Mrs. Tuttle, who, affable and indulgent, attempted
by coaxings and flirtings of a fat bediamonded finger to show Romeo off, but the pampered bird
saw further opportunity to offend.

"Rubberneck," screamed Romeo again. He ruffled up his neck feathers, repeating "Rubberneck,
I'm cold as the deuce; what's the matter with Hannah; let 'em all go to grass."

Several of the youths with ivory-headed canes now forsook their contemplations to draw near,
grinning, to the parrot-cage.

Stimulated by these youths, Romeo reeled off more ribald remarks, things that created a sudden
chill among the passengers on the Fall of Rome. Mrs. Tinneray, looked upon as a leader, called
up a shocked face and walked away; Mrs. Mealer after a faint "Excuse me," also abandoned the
parrot-cage; and Mrs. Bean, a small stout woman with a brown false front, followed the large
lady with blue spectacles and the tan linen duster. On some mysterious pretext of washing their
hands, these two left the upper deck and sought the calm of the white and gold passenger saloon.
Here they trod as in the very sanctities of luxury.

"These carpets is nice, ain't they?" remarked Mrs. Bean.

Then alluding to the scene they had just left: "Ain't it comical how she idolizes that there bird?"

Mrs. Tinneray sniffed. "And what she spends on him! 'Nitials on his seed-cup--and some says
the cage itself is true gold."

Mrs. Bean, preparing to wash her hands, removed her black skirt and pinned a towel around her
waist. "This here liquid soap is nice"--turning the faucets gingerly--"and don't the boat set
good onto the water?" Then returning to the rich topic of Mrs. Tuttle and her pampered bird,
"Where's she get all her money for her ottermobile and her gold cage?"

Mrs. Tinneray at an adjacent basin raised her head sharply, "You ain't heard about the Tuttle
money? You don't know how Mabel Hutch that was, was hair to everything?"

Mrs. Bean confessed that she had not heard, but she made it evident that she thirsted for information.
So the two ladies, exchanging remarks about sunburn and freckles, finished their hand-washing
and proceeded to the dark-green plush seats of the saloon, where with appropriate looks of
horror and incredulity Mrs. Bean listened to the story of the hairs to the Hutches' money.

"Mabel was the favorite; her Pa set great store by her. There was another sister--consumpted--she
should have been a hair, but she died. Then the youngest one, Hetty, she married my second
cousin Hen Cronney--well it seemed like they hadn't nothing but bad luck and her Pa and Mabel
sort of took against Hetty."

Mrs. Bean, herself chewing calculatingly, handed Mrs. Tinneray a bit of sugared calamus-root.

"Is your cousin Hen dark-complexioned like your folks?" she asked scientifically.

Mrs. Tinneray, narrowing both eyes, considered. "More auburn-inclined, I should say--he ain't
rill smart, Hen ain't, he gets took with spells now and then, but I never held that against him."

"Uh-huh!" agreed Mrs. Bean sympathetically.

"Well, then, Mabel Hutch and her Popper took against poor little Hetty. Old man Hutch he died
and left everything to Mabel, and she never goes near her own sister!"

Mrs. Bean raised gray-cotton gloved hands signifying horror.

"St--st--st----!" she deplored. She searched in her reticule for more calamus-root. "He didn't
leave her nothing?"

"No, ma'am! This one!" With a jerk of the head, Mrs. Tinneray indicated a dashing blue feather
seen through a distant saloon window. "This one's got it all; hair to everything."

"And what did she do--married a traveling salesman and built a tony brick house. They never
had no children, but when he was killed into a railway accident she trimmed up that parrot's
cage with crape--and now,"--Mrs. Tinneray with increasing solemnity chewed her calamus-root--"now
she's been and bought one of them ottermobiles and runs it herself like you'd run your sewin'-machine,
just as shameless--"

Both of the ladies glared condemnation at the distant blue feather.

Mrs. Tinneray continued, "Hetty Cronney's worth a dozen of her. When I think of that there
bird goin' on this excursion and Hetty Cronney stayin' home because she's too poor, I get nesty,
Mrs. Bean, yes, I do!"

"Don't your cousin Hetty live over to Chadwick's Harbor," inquired Mrs. Bean, "and don't this
boat-ride stop there to take on more folks?"

Mrs. Tinneray, acknowledging that these things were so, uncorked a small bottle of cologne
and poured a little of it on a handkerchief embroidered in black forget-me-nots. She handed
the bottle to Mrs. Bean who took three polite sniffs and closed her eyes. The two ladies sat
silent for a moment. They experienced a detachment of luxurious abandon filled with the poetry
of the steamboat saloon. Psychically they were affected as by ecclesiasticism. The perfume
of the cologne and the throb of the engines swept them with a sense of esthetic reverie, the
thrill of travel, and the atmosphere of elegance. Moreover, the story of the Hutch money and
the Hutch hairs had in some undefined way affiliated the two. At last by tacit consent they
rose, went out on deck and, holding their reticules tight, walked majestically up and down.
When they passed Mrs. Turtle's blue feathers and the gold parrot-cage they smiled meaningly
and looked at each other.

* * *

As the Fall of Rome approached Chadwick's Landing more intimate groups formed. The air was
mild, the sun warm and inviting, and the water an obvious and understandable blue. Some serious-minded
excursionists sat well forward on their camp-stools discussing deep topics over half-skinned
bananas.

"Give me the Vote," a lady in a purple raincoat was saying, "Give me the Vote and I undertake
to close up every rum-hole in God's World."

A mild-mannered youth with no chin, upon hearing this, edged away. He went to the stern, looking
down for a long time upon the white path of foam left in the wake of the Fall of Rome and taking
a harmonica from his waistcoat pocket began to play, "Darling, I Am Growing Old." This tune,
played with emotional throbbings managed by spasmodic movements of the hands over the sides
of the mouth, seemed to convey anything but age to Miss Mealer, the girl who was so refined.
She also sat alone in the stern, also staring down at the white water. As the wailings of the
harmonica ceased, she put up a thin hand and furtively controlled some waving strands of hair.
Suddenly with scarlet face the mild-mannered youth moved up his camp-stool to her side.

"They're talkin' about closing up the rum-holes." He indicated the group dominated by the lady
in the purple raincoat. "They don't know what they're talking about. Some rum-holes is real
refined and tasty, some of them have got gramophones you can hear for nothin'."

"Is that so?" responded the refined Miss Mealer. She smoothed her gloves. She opened her "mesh"
bag and took out an intensely perfumed handkerchief. The mild-mannered youth put his harmonica
in his pocket and warmed to the topic.

"Many's the time I've set into a saloon listening to that Lady that sings high up--higher than
any piano can go. I've set and listened till I didn't know where I was settin'--of course I
had to buy a drink, you understand, or I couldn't 'a' set."

"And they call that vice," remarked Miss Mealer with languid criticism.

The mild-mannered youth looked at her gratefully. The light of reason and philosophy seemed
to him to shine in her eyes.

"You've got a piano to your house," he said boldly, "can you--ahem--play classic pieces, can
you play--ahem--'Asleep on the Deep'?"

In another group where substantial sandwiches were being eaten, the main theme was religion
and psychic phenomena with a strong leaning toward death-bed experiences.

"And then, my sister's mother-in-law, she set up, and she says, 'Where am I?' she says, like
she was in a store or somethin', and she told how she seen all white before her eyes and all
like gentlemen in high silk hats walkin' around."

There were sighs of comprehension, gasps of dolorous interest.

"The same with my Christopher!"

"Just like my aunt's step-sister afore she went!"

Mrs. Tuttle did not favor the grave character of these symposia.

With the assured manner peculiar to her, she swept into such circles bearing a round box of
candy, upon which was tied a large bow of satin ribbon of a convivial shade of heliotrope.
Opening this box she handed it about, commanding, "Help yourself."

At first it was considered refined to refuse. One or two excursionists, awed by the superfluity
of heliotrope ribbon, said feebly, "Don't rob yourself."

But Mrs. Tuttle met this restraint with practised raillery. "What you all afraid of? It ain't
poisoned! I got more where this come from." She turned to the younger people. "Come one, come
all! It's French-mixed."

Meanwhile Mrs. Bean and Mrs. Tinneray, still aloof and enigmatic, paced the deck. Mrs. Tuttle,
blue feathers streaming, teetered on her high heels in their direction. Again she proffered
the box. One of the cynical youths with the ivory-headed canes was following her, demanding
that the parrot be fed a caramel. Once more the sky-blue figure bent over the ornate cage;
then little Mrs. Bean looked at Mrs. Tinneray with a gesture of utter repudiation.

"Ain't she terrible?"

As the steamboat approached the wharf and the dwarf pines and yellow sand-banks of Chadwick's
Landing, a whispered consultation between these two ladies resulted in one desperate attempt
to probe the heart of Mabel Hutch that was. Drawing camp-stools up near the vicinity of the
parrot's cage, they began with what might to a suspicious nature have seemed rather pointed
speculation, to wonder who might or might not be at the wharf when the Fall of Rome got in.

Once more the bottle of cologne was produced and handkerchiefs genteelly dampened. Mrs. Bean,
taking off her green glasses, polished them and held them up to the light, explaining, "This
here sea air makes 'em all of a muck."

Suddenly she leaned over to Mrs. Tuttle with an air of sympathetic interest.

"I suppose--er--your sister Hetty'll be comin' on board when we get to Chadwick's Landing--her
and her husband?"

Mrs. Tuttle fidgeted. She covered Romeo's cage with a curious arrangement like an altar-cloth
on which gay embroidered parrakeets of all colors were supposed to give Romeo, when lonely,
a feeling of congenial companionship.

Mrs. Bean, thus evaded, screwed up her eyes tight, then opened them wide at Mrs. Tinneray,
who sat rigid, her gaze riveted upon far-off horizons, humming between long sighs a favorite
hymn. Finally, however, the last-named lady leaned past Mrs. Bean and touched Mrs. Turtle's
silken knee, volunteering,

"Your sister Hetty likes the water, I know. You remember them days, Mis' Tuttle, when we all
went bathin' together down to old Chadwick's Harbor, afore they built the new wharf?"

Mrs. Tinneray continued reminiscently.

"You remember them old dresses we wore--no classy bathin'-suits then--but my--the mornings
used to smell good! That path to the shore was all wild roses and we used to find blueberries
in them woods. Us girls was always teasin' Hetty, her bathin'-dress was white muslin and when
it was wet it stuck to her all over, she showed through--my, how we'd laugh, but yet for all,"
concluded Mrs. Tinneray sentimentally, "she looked lovely--just like a little wet angel."

Mrs. Tuttle carefully smoothed her blue mitts, observing nervously, "Funny how Mis' Tinneray
could remember so far back."

"Is Hetty your sister by rights," suavely inquired Mrs. Bean, "or ony by your Pa's second marriage,
as it were?"

The owner of the overestimated parrot roused herself.

"By rights," she admitted indifferently, "I don't see much of her--she married beneath her."

The tip of Mrs. Tinneray's nose, either from cologne inhalings or sunburn, grew suddenly scarlet.
However she still regarded the far-off horizons and repeated the last stanza of her hymn, which
stanza, sung with much quavering and sighing was a statement to the effect that Mrs. Tinneray
would "cling to the old rugged cross." Suddenly, however, she remarked to the surrounding Summer
air,

"Hen Cronney is my second cousin on the mother's side. Some thought he was pretty smart until
troubles come and his wife was done out of her rights."

The shaft, carefully aimed, went straight into Mrs. Turtle's blue bosom and stuck there. Her
eyes, not overintelligent, turned once in her complacent face, then with an air of grandiose
detachment, she occupied herself with the ends of her sky-blue automobile veil.

"I'll have to fix this different," she remarked unconcernedly, "or else my waves'll come out.
Well, I presume we'll soon be there. I better go down-stairs and primp up some." The high heels
clattered away. Mrs. Bean fixed a long look of horror on Mrs. Tinneray, who silently turned
her eyes up to heaven!

As the Fall of Rome churned its way up to the sunny wharf of Chadwick's Landing, the groups
already on the excursion bristled with excitement. Children were prepared to meet indulgent
grandparents, lovers their sweethearts, and married couples old school friends they had not
seen for years. From time to time these admonished their offspring.

"Hypatia Smith, you're draggin' your pink sash, leave Mommer fix it. There now, don't you dare
to set down so Grammer can see you lookin' good."

"Lionel Jones, you throw that old pop-corn overboard. Do you want to eat it after you've had
it on the floor?"

"Does your stomach hurt you, dear? Well, here don't cry Mommer'll give you another cruller."

With much shouting of jocular advice from the male passengers the Fall of Rome was warped into
Chadwick's Landing and the waiting groups came aboard. As they streamed on, bearing bundles
and boxes and all the impedimenta of excursions, those already on board congregated on the
after-deck to distinguish familiar faces. A few persons had come down to the landing merely
to look upon the embarkation.

These, not going themselves on the excursion, maintained an air of benevolent superiority that
could not conceal vivid curiosity. Among them, eagerly scanning the faces on deck was a very
small thin woman clad in a gingham dress, on her head a battered straw hat of accentuated by-gone
mode, and an empty provision-basket swinging on her arm. Mrs. Tinneray peering down on her
through smoked glasses, suddenly started violently. "My sakes," she ejaculated, "my sakes,"
then as the dramatic significance of the thing gripped her, "My--my--my, ain't that terrible?"

Solemnly, with prunella portentousness, Mrs. Tinneray stole back of the other passengers leaning
over the rail up to Mrs. Bean, who turned to her animatedly, exclaiming,

"They've got a new schoolhouse. I can just see the cupola--there's some changes since I was
here. They tell me there's a flag sidewalk in front of the Methodist church and that young
Baxter the express agent has growed a mustache, and's got married."

Mrs. Tinneray did not answer. She laid a compelling hand on Mrs. Bean's shoulder and turned
her so that she looked straight at the small group of home-stayers down on the wharf. She pointed
a sepulchral finger,

"That there, in the brown with the basket, is Hetty Cronney, own sister to Mis' Josiah Tuttle."

Mrs. Bean clutched her reticule and leaned over the rail, gasping with interest.

"Ye don't say--that's her? My! My! My!"

In solemn silence the two regarded the little brown woman so unconscious of their gaze. By
the piteous wizened face screwed up in the sunlight, by the faded hair, nut-cracker jaws, and
hollow eyes they utterly condemned Mrs. Tuttle, who, blue feathers floating, was also absorbed
in watching the stream of embarking excursionists.

Mrs. Tinneray, after a whispered consultation with Mrs. Bean went up and nudged her; without
ceremony she pointed,

"Your sister's down there on the wharf," she announced flatly, "come on over where we are and
you can see her."

Frivolous Mrs. Tuttle turned and encountered a pair of eyes steely in their determination.
Re-adjusting the gold cage more comfortably on its camp-stool and murmuring a blessing on the
hooked-beak occupant, the azure lady tripped off in the wake of her flat-heeled friend.

Meanwhile Mr. Tinneray, standing well aft, was calling cheerfully down to the little figure
on the wharf.

"Next Summer you must git your nerve up and come along. Excursions is all the rage nowadays.
My wife's took in four a'ready."

But little Mrs. Cronney did not answer. Shading her eyes from the sun glare, she was establishing
recognizance with her cerulean relative who, waving a careless blue-mitted hand, called down
in girlish greeting,

"Heigho, Hetty, how's Cronney? Why ain't you to the excursion?"

The little woman on the wharf was seen to wince slightly. She shifted her brown basket to the
other arm, ignoring the second question.

"Oh, Cronney's good--ony he's low-spirited--seems as tho he couldn't get no work."

"Same old crooked stick, hey?" Mrs. Tuttle called down facetiously.

Mrs. Bean and Mrs. Tinneray stole horrified glances at each other. One planted a cotton-gloved
hand over an opening mouth. But little Mrs. Cronney, standing alone on the pier was equal to
the occasion. She shook out a small and spotless handkerchief, blowing her nose with elegant
deliberation before she replied,

"Well--I don't know as he needs to work all the time; Cronney is peculiar, you know, he's one
of them that is high-toned and nifty about money--he ain't like some, clutching onto every penny!"

By degrees, other excursionists, leaning over the railing, began to catch at something spicy
in the situation of these two sisters brought face to face. At Mrs. Cronney's sally, one of
the funny men guffawed his approval. Groups of excursionists explained to each other that that
lady down there, her on the wharf, in the brown, was own sister to Mrs. Josiah Tuttle!

The whistle of the Fall of Rome now sounded for all aboard. It was a dramatic moment, the possibilities
of which suddenly gripped Mrs. Tinneray. She clasped her hands in effortless agony. This lady,
as she afterward related to Mrs. Bean, felt mean! She could see in her mind's eye, she said,
how it all looked to Hetty Cronney, the Fall of Rome with its opulent leisurely class of excursionists
steaming away from her lonely little figure on the wharf; while Mabel Tuttle, selfish devourer
of the Hutches' substance and hair to everything, would still be handing aroun' her boxes of
French-mixed and talking baby talk to that there bird!

At the moment, Mrs. Tinneray's mind, dwelling upon the golden cage and its over-estimated occupant,
became a mere boiling of savage desires. Suddenly the line of grim resolution hardened on her
face. This look, one that the Tinneray children invariably connected with the switch hanging
behind the kitchen door, Mr. Tinneray also knew well. Seeing it now, he hastened to his wife.

"What's the matter, Mother, seasick? Here I'll git you a lemon."

Mrs. Tinneray, jaw set, eyes rolling, was able to intimate that she needed no lemon, but she
drew her husband mysteriously aside. She fixed him with a foreboding glare, she said it was
a wonder the Lord didn't sink the boat! Then she rapidly sketched the tragedy--Mrs. Tuttle
serene and pampered on the deck, and Hetty Cronney desolate on the wharf! She pronounced verdict.

"It's terrible--that's what it is!"

Mr. Tinneray with great sagacity said he'd like to show Mabel Tuttle her place--then he nudged
his wife and chuckled admiringly,

"But yet for all, Hetty's got her tongue in her head yet--say, ain't she the little stinger?"

Sotto voce Mr. Tinneray related to his spouse how Mabel Tuttle was bragging about her brick
house and her shower-bath and her automobile and her hired girl, and how she'd druv herself
and that there bird down to Boston and back.

"Hetty, she just stands there, just as easy, and hollers back that Cronney has bought a gramophone
and how they sets by it day and night listening, and how it's son and daughter to 'em. Then
she calls up to Mabel Tuttle, 'I should think you'd be afraid of meddlin' with them ottermobiles,
your time of life.'"

Mr. Tinneray choked over his own rendition of this audacity, but his wife sniffed hopelessly.

"They ain't got no gramophone--her, with that face and hat?--Cronney don't make nothing; they
two could live on what that Blue Silk Quilt feeds that stinkin' parrot."

But Mr. Tinneray chuckled again, he seemed to be possessed with the humor of some delightful
secret. Looking carefully around him and seeing every one absorbed in other things he leaned
closer to his wife.

"She's liable to lose that bird," he whispered. "Them young fellers with the canes--they're
full of their devilment--well, they wanted I shouldn't say nothing and I ain't sayin' nothing--only--"

Fat Mr. Tinneray, pale eyes rolling in merriment, pointed to the camp-stool where once the
parrot's cage had rested and where now no parrot-cage was to be seen.

"As fur as I can see," he nudged his wife again, "that bird's liable to get left ashore."

For a moment Mrs. Tinneray received this news stolidly, then a look of comprehension flashed
over her face. "What you talkin' about, Henry?" she demanded. "Say, ain't you never got grown
up? Where's Manda Bean?"

Having located Mrs. Bean, the two ladies indulged in a rapid whispered conversation. Upon certain
revelations made by Mrs. Bean, Mrs. Tinneray turned and laid commands upon her husband.

"Look here," she said, "that what you told me is true--them young fellers--" she fixed Mr.
Tinneray with blue-glassed significant eyes, adding sotto voce, "You keep Mabel Tuttle busy."

Fat Mr. Tinneray, chuckling anew, withdrew to the after-rail where the azure lady still stood,
chained as it were in a sort of stupor induced by the incisive thrusts of the forlorn little
woman on the wharf. He joined in the conversation.

"So yer got a gramophone, hey," he called down kindly--"Say, that's nice, ain't it?--that's
company fer you and Cronney." He appealed to Mrs. Tuttle in her supposed part of interested
relative. "Keeps 'em from gettin' lonesome and all," he explained.

That lady looking a pointed unbelief, could not, with the other excursionists watching, but
follow his lead.

"Why--er--ye-ess, that's rill nice," she agreed, with all the patronage of the wealthy relative.

Little Mrs. Cronney's eyes glittered. The steamboat hands had begun lifting the hawsers from
the wharf piles and her time was short. She was not going to be pitied by the opulent persons
on the excursion. Getting as it were into her stride, she took a bolder line of imagery.

"And the telephone," looking up at Mr. Tinneray. "I got friends in Quahawg Junction and Russell
Center--we're talkin' sometimes till nine o'clock at night. I can pick up jelly receipts and
dress-patterns just so easy."

But Mrs. Tuttle now looked open incredulity. She turned to such excursionists as stood by and
registered emphatic denial. "Uh-huh?" she called down in apparent acceptance of these lurid
statements, at the same time remarking baldly to Mr. Tinneray, who had placed himself at her side,

"She ain't got no telephone!"

At this moment something seemed to occur to little Mrs. Cronney. As she gave a parting defiant
scrutiny to her opulent sister her black eyes snapped in hollow reminiscence and she called out,

"Say--how's your parrot? How's your beau--Ro-me-o?"

At this, understood to be a parting shot, the crowd strung along the rail of the Fall of Rome
burst into an appreciative titter. Mrs. Tuttle, reddening, made no answer, but Mr. Tinneray,
standing by and knowing what he knew, seized this opportunity to call down vociferously,

"Oh--he's good, Romeo is. But your sister's had him to the excursion and he's got just a little
seasick comin' over. Mis' Tuttle, yer sister, is going to leave him with you, till she can
come and take him home, by land, ye know, in her ottermobile--she's coming to get you too,
fer a visit, ye know."

There was an effect almost as of panic on the Fall of Rome. Not only did the big whistle for
"all aboard" blow, but some one's new hat went overboard and while every one crowded to one
side to see it rescued, it was not discovered that Romeo's cage had disappeared! In the confusion
of a band of desperadoes composed of the entire group of cynical young men with ivory-headed
canes, seized upon an object covered with something like an altar-cloth and ran down the gangplank
with it.

Going in a body to little Mrs. Cronney, these young men deposited a glittering burden, the
gold parrot-cage with the green bird sitting within, in her surprised and gratified embrace.
Like flashes these agile young men jumped back upon the deck of the Fall of Rome just before
the space between wharf and deck became too wide to jump. Meanwhile on the upper deck, before
the petrified Mrs. Tuttle could open her mouth, Mr. Tinneray shouted instructions,

"Your sister wants you should keep him," he roared, "till she comes over to see you in her
ottermobile--to--fetch--him--and--git--you--for--a--visit!"

Suddenly the entire crowd of excursionists on the after-deck of the Fall of Rome gave a rousing
cheer. The gratified young men with the ivory-headed canes suddenly saw themselves of the age
of chivalry and burst into ragtime rapture; the excursion, a mass of waving flags and hats
and automobile veils, made enthusiastic adieu to one faded little figure on the wharf, who
proud and happy gently waved back a gleaming parrot's cage!

It was Mr. Tinneray, dexterous in all such matters, that caught at a drooping cerulean form
as it toppled over.

"I know'd she'd faint," the pale-eyed gentleman chuckled. He manfully held his burden until
Mrs. Tinneray and Mrs. Bean relieved him. These ladies, practised in all smelling-bottle and
cologne soothings, supplied also verbal comfort.

"Them young fellows," they explained to Mrs. Tuttle, "is full of their devilment and you can't
never tell what they'll do next. But ain't it lucky, Mis' Tuttle, that it's your own sister
has charge of that bird?"

When at last a pale and interesting lady in blue appeared feebly on deck, wiping away recurrent
tears, she was received with the most perfect sympathy tempered with congratulations. There
may have been a few winks and one or two nods of understanding which she did not see, but Mrs.
Tuttle herself was petted and soothed like a queen of the realm, only, to her mind was brought
a something of obligation--the eternal obligation of those who greatly possess--for every excursionist
said,

"My, yes! No need to worry--your sister will take care of that bird like he was one of her
own, and then you can go over in yer ottermobile to git him--and when you fetch him you can
take her home with yer--fer a visit."

ONNIE[3]

[Note 3: Copyright, 1917, by The Century Company. Copyright, 1918, by Thomas Beer.]

BY THOMAS BEER

From The Century Magazine

Mrs. Rawling ordered Sanford to take a bath, and with the clear vision of seven years Sanford
noted that no distinct place for this process had been recommended. So he retired to a sun-warmed
tub of rain-water behind the stables, and sat comfortably armpit deep therein, whirring a rattle
lately worn by a snake, and presented to him by one of the Varian tribe, sons of his father's
foreman. Soaking happily, Sanford admired his mother's garden, spread up along the slope toward
the thick cedar forest, and thought of the mountain strawberries ripening in this hot Pennsylvania
June. His infant brother Peter yelled viciously in the big gray-stone house, and the great
sawmill snarled half a mile away, while he waited patiently for the soapless water to remove
all plantain stains from his brown legs, the cause of this immersion.

A shadow came between him and the sun, and Sanford abandoned the rattles to behold a monstrous
female, unknown, white-skinned, moving on majestic feet to his seclusion. He sat deeper in
the tub, but she seemed unabashed, and stood with a red hand on each hip, a grin rippling the
length of her mouth.

"Herself says you'll be comin' to herself now, if it's you that's Master San," she said.

Sanford speculated. He knew that all things have an office in this world, and tried to locate
this preposterous, lofty creature while she beamed upon him.

"I'm San. Are you the new cook?" he asked.

"I am the same," she admitted.

"Are you a good cook?" he continued. "Aggie wasn't. She drank."

"God be above us all! And whatever did herself do with a cook that drank in this place?"

"I don't know. Aggie got married. Cooks do," said Sanford, much entertained by this person.
Her deep voice was soft, emerging from the largest, reddest mouth he had ever seen. The size
of her feet made him dubious as to her humanity. "Anyhow," he went on, "tell mother I'm not
clean yet. What's your name?"

"Onnie," said the new cook. "An' would this be the garden?"

"Silly, what did you think?"

"I'm a stranger in this place, Master San, an' I know not which is why nor forever after."

Sanford's brain refused this statement entirely, and he blinked.

"I guess you're Irish," he meditated.

"I am. Do you be gettin' out of your tub now, an' Onnie'll dry you," she offered.

"I can't," he said firmly; "you're a lady."

"A lady? Blessed Mary save us from sin! A lady? Myself? I'm no such thing in this world at
all; I'm just Onnie Killelia."

She appeared quite horrified, and Sanford was astonished. She seemed to be a woman, for all
her height and the extent of her hands.

"Are you sure?" he asked.

"As I am a Christian woman," said Onnie. "I never was a lady, nor could I ever be such a thing."

"Well," said Sanford, "I don't know, but I suppose you can dry me."

He climbed out of his tub, and this novel being paid kind attention to his directions. He began
to like her, especially as her hair was of a singular, silky blackness, suggesting dark mulberries,
delightful to the touch. He allowed her to kiss him and to carry him, clothed, back to the
house on her shoulders, which were as hard as a cedar trunk, but covered with green cloth sprinkled
with purple dots.

"And herself's in the libr'y drinkin' tea," said his vehicle, depositing him on the veranda.
"An' what might that be you'd be holdin'?"

"Just a rattle off a snake."

She examined the six-tiered, smoky rattle with a positive light in her dull, black eyes and
crossed herself.

"A queer country, where they do be bellin' the snakes! I heard the like in the gover'ment school
before I did come over the west water, but I misbelieved the same. God's ways is strange, as
the priests will be sayin'."

"You can have it," said Sanford, and ran off to inquire of his mother the difference between
women and ladies.

Rawling, riding slowly, came up the driveway from the single lane of his village, and found
the gigantic girl sitting on the steps so absorbed in this sinister toy that she jumped with
a little yelp when he dismounted.

"What have you there?" he asked, using his most engaging smile.

"'Tis a snake's bell, your Honor, which Master San did be givin' me. 'Tis welcome indeed, as
I lost off my holy medal, bein' sick, forever on the steamship crossin' the west water."

"But--can you use a rattle for a holy medal?" said Rawling.

"The gifts of children are the blessin's of Mary's self," Onnie maintained. She squatted on
the gravel and hunted for one of the big hair-pins her jump had loosened, then used it to pierce
the topmost shell. Rawling leaned against his saddle, watching the huge hands, and Pat Sheehan,
the old coachman, chuckled, coming up for the tired horse.

"You'll be from the West," he said, "where they string sea-shells."

"I am, an' you'll be from Dublin, by the sound of your speakin'. So was my father, who is now
drowned forever, and with his wooden leg," she added mournfully, finding a cord in some recess
of her pocket, entangled there with a rosary and a cluster of small fishhooks. She patted the
odd scapular into the cleft of her bosom and smiled at Rawling. "Them in the kitchen are tellin'
me you'll be ownin' this whole country an' sixty miles of it, all the trees an' hills. You'll
be no less than a President's son, then, your Honor."

Pat led the horse off hastily, and Rawling explained that his lineage was not so interesting.
The girl had arrived the night before, sent on by an Oil City agency, and Mrs. Rawling had
accepted the Amazon as manna-fall. The lumber valley was ten miles above a tiny railroad station,
and servants had to be tempted with triple wages, were transient, or married an employee before
a month could pass. The valley women regarded Rawling as their patron, heir of his father,
and as temporary aid gave feudal service on demand; but for the six months of his family's
residence each year house servants must be kept at any price. He talked of his domain, and
the Irish girl nodded, the rattles whirring when she breathed, muffled in her breast, as if
a snake were crawling somewhere near.

"When my father came here," he said, "there wasn't any railroad, and there were still Indians
in the woods."

"Red Indians? Would they all be dead now? My brother Hyacinth is fair departed his mind readin'
of red Indians. Him is my twin."

"How many of you are there?"

"Twelve, your Honor," said Onnie, "an' me the first to go off, bein' that I'm not so pretty
a man would be marryin' me that day or this. An' if herself is content, I am pleased entirely."

"You're a good cook," said Rawling, honestly. "How old are you?"

He had been puzzling about this; she was so wonderfully ugly that age was difficult to conjecture.
But she startled him.

"I'll be sixteen next Easter-time, your Honor."

"That's very young to leave home," he sympathized.

"Who'd be doin' the like of me any hurt? I'd trample the face off his head," she laughed.

"I think you could. And now what do you think of my big son?"

The amazing Onnie gurgled like a child, clasping her hands.

"Sure, Mary herself bore the like among the Jew men, an' no one since that day, or will forever.
An' I must go to my cookin', or Master San will have no dinner fit for him."

Rawling looked after her pink flannel petticoat, greatly touched and pleased by this eulogy.
Mrs. Rawling strolled out of the hall and laughed at the narrative.

"She's appalling to look at, and she frightens the other girls, but she's clean and teachable.
If she likes San, she may not marry one of the men--for a while."

"He'd be a bold man. She's as big as Jim Varian. If we run short of hands, I'll send her up
to a cutting. Where's San?"

"In the kitchen. He likes her. Heavens! if she'll only stay, Bob!"

Onnie stayed, and Mrs. Rawling was gratified by humble obedience and excellent cookery. Sanford
was gratified by her address, strange to him. He was the property of his father's lumbermen,
and their wives called him everything from "heart's love" to "little cabbage," as their origin
might dictate; but no one had ever called him "Master San." He was San to the whole valley,
the first-born of the owner who gave their children schools and stereopticon lectures in the
union chapel, as his father had before him. He went where he pleased, safe except from blind
nature and the unfriendly edges of whirling saws. Men fished him out of the dammed river, where
logs floated, waiting conversion into merchantable planking, and the Varian boys, big, tawny
youngsters, were his body-guard. These perplexed Onnie Killelia in her first days at Rawling's
Hope.

"The agent's lads are whistlin' for Master San," she reported to Mrs. Rawling. "Shall I be
findin' him?"

"The agent's lads? Do you mean the Varian boys?"

"Them's them. Wouldn't Jim Varian be his honor's agent? Don't he be payin' the tenantry an'
sayin' where is the trees to be felled? I forbid them to come in, as Miss Margot--which is
a queer name!--is asleep sound, an' Master Pete."

"Jim Varian came here with his honor's father, and taught his honor to shoot and swim, also
his honor's brother Peter, in New York, where we live in winter. Yes, I suppose you'd call
Jim Varian his honor's agent. The boys take care of Master San almost as well as you do."

Onnie sniffed, balancing from heel to heel.

"Fine care! An' Bill Varian lettin' him go romping by the poison-ivy, which God lets grow in
this place like weeds in a widow's garden. An' his honor, they do be sayin', sends Bill to
a fine school, and will the others after him, and to a college like Dublin has after. An' they
callin' himself San like he was their brother!"

As a volunteer nurse-maid Onnie was quite miraculous to her mistress. Apparently she could
follow Sanford by scent, for his bare soles left no traces in the wild grass, and he moved
rapidly, appearing at home exactly when his stomach suggested. He was forbidden only the slate
ledges beyond the log basin, where rattlesnakes took the sun, and the trackless farther reaches
of the valley, bewildering to a small boy, with intricate brooks and fallen cedar or the profitable
yellow pine. Onnie, crying out on her saints, retrieved him from the turn-table-pit of the
narrow-gauge logging-road, and pursued his fair head up the blue-stone crags behind the house,
her vast feet causing avalanches among the garden beds. She withdrew him with railings from
the enchanting society of louse-infested Polish children, and danced hysterically on the shore
of the valley-wide, log-stippled pool when the Varians took him to swim. She bore him off to
bed, lowering at the actual nurse. She filled his bath, she cut his toe-nails. She sang him
to sleep with "Drolien" and the heart-shattering lament for Gerald. She prayed all night outside
his door when he had a brief fever. When trouble was coming, she said the "snake's bells" told
her, talking loudly; and petty incidents confirmed her so far that, after she found the child's
room ablaze from one of Rawling's cigarettes, they did not argue, and grew to share half-way
her superstition.

Women were scarce in the valley, and the well-fed, well-paid men needed wives; and, as time
went on, Honora Killelia was sought in marriage by tall Scots and Swedes, who sat dumbly passionate
on the back veranda, where she mended Sanford's clothes. Even hawk-nosed Jim Varian, nearing
sixty, made cautious proposals, using Bill as messenger, when Sanford was nine.

"God spare us from purgatory!" she shouted. "Me to sew for the eight of you? Even in the fine
house his honor did be givin' the agent I could not stand the noise of it. An' who'd be mendin'
Master San's clothes? Be out of this kitchen, Bill Varian!"

Rawling, suffocated with laughter, reeled out of the pantry and fled to his pretty wife.

"She thinks San's her own kid!" he gasped.

"She's perfectly priceless. I wish she'd be as careful of Margot and Pete. I wish we could
lure her to New York. She's worth twenty city servants."

"Her theory is that if she stays here there's some one to see that Pat Sheehan doesn't neglect--what
does she call San's pony?" Rawling asked.

"The little horse. Yes, she told me she'd trample the face off Pat if Shelty came to harm.
She keeps the house like silver, too; and it's heavenly to find the curtains put up when we
get here. Heavens! listen!"

They were in Rawling's bedroom, and Onnie came up the curved stairs. Even in list house-slippers
she moved like an elephant, and Sanford had called her, so the speed of her approach shook
the square upper hall, and the door jarred a little way open with the impact of her feet.

"Onnie, I'm not sleepy. Sing Gerald," he commanded.

"I will do that same if you'll be lyin' down still, Master San. Now, this is what Conia sang
when she found her son all dead forever in the sands of the west water."

By the sound Onnie sat near the bed crooning steadily, her soft contralto filling both stories
of the happy house. Rawling went across the hall to see, and stood in the boy's door. He loved
Sanford as imaginative men can who are still young, and the ugly girl's idolatry seemed natural.
Yet this was very charming, the simple room, the drowsy, slender child, curled in his sheets,
surrounded with song.

"Thank you, Onnie," said Sanford. "I suppose she loved him a lot. It's a nice song. Goo' night."

As Onnie passed her master, he saw the stupid eyes full of tears.

"Now, why'll he be thankin' me," she muttered--"me that 'u'd die an' stay in hell forever for
him? Now I must go mend up the fish-bag your Honor's brother's wife was for sendin' him an'
which no decent fish would be dyin' in."

"Aren't you going to take Jim Varian?" asked Rawling.

"I wouldn't be marryin' with Roosyvelt himself, that's President, an' has his house built all
of gold! Who'd be seein' he gets his meals, an' no servants in the sufferin' land worth the
curse of a heretic? Not the agent, nor fifty of him," Onnie proclaimed, and marched away.

* * *

Sanford never came to scorn his slave or treat her as a servant. He was proud of Onnie. She
did not embarrass him by her all-embracing attentions, although he weaned her of some of them
as he grew into a wood-ranging, silent boy, studious, and somewhat shy outside the feudal valley.
The Varian boys were sent, as each reached thirteen, to Lawrenceville, and testified their
gratitude to the patron by diligent careers. They were Sanford's summer companions, with occasional
visits from his cousin Denis, whose mother disapproved of the valley and Onnie.

"I really don't see how Sanford can let the poor creature fondle him," she said. "Denny tells
me she simply wails outside San's door if he comes home wet or has a bruise. It's rather ludicrous,
now that San's fourteen. She writes to him at Saint Andrew's."

"I told her Saint Andrew's wasn't far from Boston, and she offered to get her cousin Dermot--he's
a bellhop at the Touraine--to valet him. Imagine San with a valet at Saint Andrew's!" Rawling
laughed.

"But San isn't spoiled," Peter observed, "and he's the idol of the valley, Bob, even more than
you are. Varian, McComas, Jansen--the whole gang and their cubs. They'd slaughter any one who
touched San."

"I don't see how you stand the place," said Mrs. Peter. "Even if the men are respectful, they're
so familiar. And anything could happen there. Denny tells me you have Poles and Russians--all
sorts of dreadful people."

Her horror tinkled prettily in the Chinese drawing-room, but Rawling sighed.

"We can't get the old sort--Scotch, Swedes, the good Irish. We get any old thing. Varian swears
like a trooper, but he has to fire them right and left all summer through. We've a couple of
hundred who are there to stay, some of them born there; but God help San when he takes it over!"

Sanford learned to row at Saint Andrew's, and came home in June with new, flat bands of muscle
in his chest, and Onnie worshiped with loud Celtic exclamations, and bade small Pete grow up
like Master San. And Sanford grew two inches before he came home for the next summer, reverting
to bare feet, corduroys, and woolen shirts as usual. Onnie eyed him dazedly when he strode
into her kitchen for sandwiches against an afternoon's fishing.

"O Master San, you're all grown up sudden'!"

"Just five foot eight, Onnie. Ling Varian's five foot nine; so's Cousin Den."

"But don't you be goin' round the cuttin' camps up valley, neither. You're too young to be
hearin' the awful way these news hands do talk. It's a sin to hear how they curse an' swear."

"The wumman's right," said Cameron, the smith, who was courting her while he mended the kitchen
range. "They're foul as an Edinburgh fishwife--the new men. Go no place wi'out a Varian, two
Varians, or one of my lads."

"Good Lord! I'm not a kid, Ian!"

"Ye're no' a mon, neither. An' ye're the owner's first," said Cameron grimly.

Rawling nodded when Sanford told him this.

"Jim carries an automatic in his belt, and we've had stabbings. Keep your temper if they get
fresh. We're in hot water constantly, San. Look about the trails for whisky-caches. These rotten
stevedores who come floating in bother the girls and bully the kids. You're fifteen, and I
count on you to help keep the property decent. The boys will tell you the things they hear.
Use the Varians; Ling and Reuben are clever. I pay high enough wages for this riffraff. I'll
pay anything for good hands; and we get dirt!"

Sanford enjoyed being a detective, and kept the Varians busy. Bill, acting as assistant doctor
of the five hundred, gave him advice on the subject of cocaine symptoms and alcoholic eyes.
Onnie raved when he trotted in one night with Ling and Reuben at heel, their clothes rank with
the evil whiskey they had poured from kegs hidden in a cavern near the valley-mouth.

"You'll be killed forever with some Polack beast! O Master San, it's not you that's the polis.
'Tis not fit for him, your Honor. Some Irish pig will be shootin' him, or a sufferin' Bohemyun."

"But it's the property, Onnie," the boy faltered. "Here's his honor worked to death, and Uncle
Jim. I've got to do something. They sell good whisky at the store, and just smell me."

But Onnie wept, and Rawling, for sheer pity, sent her out of the dining-room.

"She--she scares me!" Sanford said. "It's not natural, Dad, d' you think?"

He was sitting on his bed, newly bathed and pensive, reviewing the day.

"Why not? She's alone here, and you're the only thing she's fond of. Stop telling her about
things or she'll get sick with worry."

"She's fond of Margot and Pete, but she's just idiotic about me. She did scare me!"

Rawling looked at his son and wondered if the boy knew how attractive were his dark, blue eyes
and his plain, grave face. The younger children were beautiful; but Sanford, reared more in
the forest, had the forest depth in his gaze and an animal litheness in his hard young body.

"She's like a dog," Sanford reflected. "Only she's a woman. It's sort of--"

"Pathetic?"

"I suppose that's the word. But I do love the poor old thing. Her letters are rich. She tells
me about all the new babies and who's courting who and how the horses are. It is pathetic."

* * *

He thought of Onnie often the next winter, and especially when she wrote a lyric of thanksgiving
after the family had come to Rawling's Hope in April, saying that all would be well and trouble
would cease. But his father wrote differently:

"You know there is a strike in the West Virginia mines, and it has sent a mass of ruffians
out looking for work. We need all the people we can get, but they are a pestiferous outfit.
I am opening up a camp in Bear Run, and our orders are enormous already, but I hate littering
the valley with these swine. They are as insolent and dirty as Turks. Pete says the village
smells, and has taken to the woods. Onnie says the new Irish are black scum of Limerick, and
Jim Varian's language isn't printable. The old men are complaining, and altogether I feel like
Louis XVI in 1789. About every day I have to send for the sheriff and have some thug arrested.
A blackguard from Oil City has opened a dive just outside the property, on the road to the
station, and Cameron tells me all sorts of dope is for sale in the hoarding-houses. We have
cocaine-inhalers, opium-smokers, and all the other vices."

After this outburst Sanford was not surprised when he heard from Onnie that his father now
wore a revolver, and that the overseers of the sawmill did the same.

On the first of June Rawling posted signs at the edge of his valley and at the railroad stations
nearest, saying that he needed no more labor. The tide of applicants ceased, but Mrs. Rawling
was nervous. Pete declared his intention of running away, and riding home in the late afternoon,
Margot was stopped by a drunken, babbling man, who seized her pony's bridle, with unknown words.
She galloped free, but next day Rawling sent his wife and children to the seaside and sat waiting
Sanford's coming to cheer his desolate house, the new revolver cold on his groin.

Sanford came home a day earlier than he had planned, and drove in a borrowed cart from the
station, furious when an old cottage blazed in the rainy night, just below the white posts
marking his heritage, and shrill women screamed invitation at the horse's hoof-beats. He felt
the valley smirched, and his father's worn face angered him when they met.

"I almost wish you'd not come, Sonny. We're in rotten shape for a hard summer. Go to bed, dear,
and get warm."

"Got a six-shooter for me?"

"You? Who'd touch you? Some one would kill him. I let Bill have a gun, and some other steady
heads. You must keep your temper. You always have. Ling Varian got into a splendid row with
some hog who called Uncle Jim--the usual name. Ling did him up. Ah, here's Onnie. Onnie, here's--"

The cook rushed down the stairs, a fearful and notable bed-gown covering her night-dress, and
the rattles chattering loudly.

"God's kind to us. See the chest of him! Master San! Master San!"

"Good Lord, Onnie. I wasn't dead, you know! Don't kill a fellow!"

For the first time her embrace was an embarrassment; her mouth on his cheek made him flush.
She loved him so desperately, this poor stupid woman, and he could only be fond of her, give
her a sort of tolerant affection. Honesty reddened his face.

"Come on and find me a hard-boiled egg, there's a--"

"A hard-boiled egg? Listen to that, your Honor! An' it's near the middle of the night! No,
I'll not be findin' hard-boiled eggs for you--oh, he's laughin' at me! Now you come into the
dinin'-room, an' I'll be hottin' some milk for you, for you're wet as any drowned little cat.
An' the mare's fine, an' I've the fishin'-sticks all dusted, an' your new bathin'-tub's to
your bath-room, though ill fate follow that English pig Percival that put it in, for he dug
holes with his heels! An' would you be wantin' a roast-beef sandwidge?"

"She's nearly wild," said Rawling as the pantry door slammed. "You must be careful, San, and
not get into any rows. She'd have a fit. What is it?"

"What do you do when you can't--care about a person as much as they care about you?"

"Put up with it patiently." Rawling shrugged. "What else can you do?"

"I'm sixteen. She keeps on as if I were six. S-suppose she fell in love with me? She's not
old--very old."

"It's another sort of thing, Sonny. Don't worry," said Rawling, gravely, and broke off the
subject lest the boy should fret.

Late next afternoon Sanford rode down a trail from deep forest, lounging in the saddle, and
flicking brush aside with a long dog-whip. There was a rain-storm gathering, and the hot air
swayed no leaf. A rabbit, sluggish and impertinent, hopped across his path and wandered up
the side trail toward Varian's cottage. Sanford halted the mare and whistled. His father needed
cheering, and Ling Varian, if obtainable, would make a third at dinner. His intimate hurtled
down the tunnel of mountain ash directly and assented.

"Wait till I go back and tell Reuben, though. I'm cooking this week. Wish Onnie 'd marry dad.
Make her, can't you? Hi, Reu! I'm eating at the house. The beef's on, and dad wants fried onions.
Why won't she have dad? You're grown up."

He trotted beside the mare noiselessly, chewing a birch spray, a hand on his friend's knee.

"She says she won't get married. I expect she'll stay here as long as she lives."

"I suppose so, but I wish she'd marry dad," said Ling. "All this trouble's wearing him out,
and he won't have a hired girl if we could catch one. There's a pile of trouble, San. He has
rows every day. Had a hell of a row with Percival yesterday."

"Who's this Percival? Onnie was cursing him out last night," Sanford recollected.

"He's an awful big hog who's pulling logs at the runway. Used to be a plumber in Australia.
Swears like a sailor. He's a--what d' you call 'em? You know, a London mucker?"

"Cockney?"

"Yes, that's it. He put in your new bath-tub, and Onnie jumped him for going round the house
looking at things. Dad's getting ready to fire him. He's the worst hand in the place. I'll
point him out to you."

The sawmill whistle blew as the trail joined open road, and they passed men, their shirts sweat-stained,
nodding or waving to the boys as they spread off to their houses and the swimming-place at
the river bridge.

A group gathered daily behind the engine-yard to play horseshoe quoits, and Sanford pulled
the mare to a walk on the fringes of this half-circle as old friends hailed him and shy lads
with hair already sun-bleached wriggled out of the crowd to shake hands, Camerons, Jansens,
Nattiers, Keenans, sons of the faithful. Bill Varian strolled up, his medical case under an arm.

"I'm eating with you. The boss asked me. He feels better already. Come in and speak to dad.
He's hurt because he's not seen you, and you stopped to see Ian at the forge. Hi, Dad!" he
called over the felt hats of the ring, "here's San."

"Fetch him in, then," cried the foreman.

Bill and Ling led the nervous mare through the group of pipe-smoking, friendly lumbermen, and
Varian hugged his fosterling's son.

"Stop an' watch," he whispered. "They'll like seein' you, San. Onnie's been tellin' the women
you've growed a yard."

Sanford settled to the monotony of the endless sport, saluting known brown faces and answering
yelps of pleasure from the small boys who squatted against the high fence behind the stake.

"That's Percival," said Ling, as a man swaggered out to the pitching-mark.

"Six foot three," Bill said, "and strong as an ox. Drinks all the time. Think he dopes, too."

Sanford looked at the fellow with a swift dislike for his vacant, heavy face and his greasy,
saffron hair. His bare arms were tattooed boldly and in many colors, distorted with ropes of
muscle. He seemed a little drunk, and the green clouds cast a copper shade into his lashless eyes.

"Can't pitch for beans," said Ling as the first shoe went wide. When the second fell beside
it, the crowd laughed.

"Now," said Ian Cameron, "he'll be mad wi' vainglory. He's a camstearlie ring' it an' a claverin'
fu'."

"Ho! larf ahead!" snapped the giant. "'Ow's a man to 'eave a bloody thing at a bloody stike?"

The experts chuckled, and he ruffled about the ring, truculent, sneering, pausing before Varian,
with a glance at Sanford.

"Give me something with some balance. Hi can show yer. Look!"

"I'm looking," said the foreman; "an' I ain't deaf, neither."

"'Ere's wot you blighters carn't 'eave. Learned it in Auckland, where there's real men." He
fumbled in his shirt, and the mare snorted as the eight-inch blade flashed out of its handle
under her nose. "See? That's the lidy! Now watch! There's a knot-'ole up the palings there."

The crowd fixed a stare on the green, solid barrier, and the knife soared a full twenty yards,
but missed the knot-hole and rattled down. There was flat derision in the following laughter,
and Percival dug his heel in the sod.

"Larf ahead! Hany one else try 'er?"

"Oh, shut up!" said some one across the ring. "We're pitchin' shoes."

Percival slouched off after his knife, and the frieze of small boys scattered except a lint-haired
Cameron who was nursing a stray cat busily, cross-legged against the green boarding.

"Yon's Robert Sanford Cameron," said the smith. "He can say half his catechism."

"Good kid," said Sanford. "I never could get any--"

Percival had wandered back and stood a yard off, glaring at Bill as the largest object near.

"Think I can't, wot?"

"I'm not interested, and you're spoiling the game," said Bill, who feared nothing alive except
germs, and could afford to disregard most of these. Sanford's fingers tightened on his whip.

"Ho!" coughed the cockney. "See! You--there!"

Robert Cameron looked up at the shout. The blade shot between the child's head and the kitten
and hummed gently, quivering in the wood.

"Hi could 'a' cut 'is throat," said Percival so complacently that Sanford boiled.

"You scared him stiff," he choked. "You hog! Don't--"

"'Ello, 'oo's the young dook?"

"Look out," said a voice. "That's San, the--"

"Ho! 'Im with the Hirish gal to 'elp 'im tike 'is bloody barth nights? 'Oo's he? She's a--"

A second later Sanford knew that he had struck the man over the face with his whip, cutting
the phrase. The mare plunged and the whole crowd congested about the bellowing cockney as Bill
held Cameron back, and huge Jansen planted a hand on Rawling's chest.

"No worry," he said genially. "Yim an' us, Boss, our job."

Varian had wedged his hawk face close to the cockney's, now purple blotched with wrath, and
Rawling waited.

"Come to the office an' get your pay. You hear? Then you clear out. If you ain't off the property
in an hour you'll be dead. You hear?"

"He ought to," muttered Ling, leading the mare away. "Dad hasn't yelled that loud since that
Dutchman dropped the kid in the--hello, it's raining!"

"Come on home, Sonny," said Rawling, "and tell us all about it. I didn't see the start."

But Sanford was still boiling, and the owner had recourse to his godson. Ling told the story,
unabridged, as they mounted toward the house.

"Onnie'll hear of it," sighed Rawling. "Look, there she is by the kitchen, and that's Jennie
Cameron loping 'cross lots. Never mind, San. You did the best you could; don't bother. Swine
are swine."

The rain was cooling Sanford's head, and he laughed awkwardly.

"Sorry I lost my temper."

"I'm not. Jennie's telling Onnie. Hear?"

The smith's long-legged daughter was gesticulating at the kitchen trellis, and Onnie's feet
began a sort of war-dance in the wet grass as Rawling approached.

"Where is this sufferin' pig, could your honor be tellin' me? God be above us all! With my
name in his black, ugly mouth! I knew there'd be trouble; the snake's bells did be sayin' so
since the storm was comin'. An' him three times the bigness of Master San! Where'd he be now?"

"Jim gave him an hour to be off the property, Onnie."

"God's mercy he had no knife in his hand, then, even with the men by an' Master San on his
horse. Blessed Mary! I will go wait an' have speech with this Englishman on the road."

"You'll go get dinner, Onnie Killelia," said Rawling. "Master San is tired, Bill and Ling are
coming--and look there!"

The faithful were marching Percival down the road to the valley-mouth in the green dusk. He
walked between Jansen and Bill, a dozen men behind, and a flying scud of boys before.

"An' Robbie's not hurt," said Miss Cameron, "an' San ain't, neither; so don't you worry, Onnie.
It's all right."

Onnie laughed.

"I'd like well to have seen the whip fly, your Honor. The arm of him! Will he be wantin' waffles
to his dinner? Heyah! more trouble yet!" The rattles had whirred, and she shook her head. "A
forest fire likely now? Or a child bein' born dead?"

"Father says she's fëy," Jennie observed as the big woman lumbered off.

"You mean she has second sight? Perhaps. Here's a dollar for Robbie, and tell Ian he's lucky."

* * *

Bill raced up as the rain began to fall heavily in the windless gray of six o'clock. He reported
the cockney gone and the men loud in admiration of Sanford; so dinner was cheerful enough,
although Sanford felt limp after his first attack of killing rage. Onnie's name on this animal's
tongue had maddened him, the reaction made him drowsy; but Ling's winter at Lawrenceville and
Bill's in New York needed hearing. Rawling left the three at the hall fireplace while he read
a new novel in the library. The rain increased, and the fall became a continuous throbbing
so steady that he hardly heard the telephone ring close to his chair; but old Varian's voice
came clear along the wire.

"Is that you, Bob? Now, listen. One of them girls at that place down the station road was just
talkin' to me. She's scared. She rung me up an' Cameron. That dam' Englishman's gone out o'
there bile drunk, swearin' he'll cut San's heart out, the pup! He's gone off wavin' his knife.
Now, he knows the house, an' he ain't afraid of nothin'--when he's drunk. He might get that
far an' try breakin' in. You lock up--"

"Lock up? What with?" asked Rawling. "There's not a lock in the place. Father never had them
put in, and I haven't."

"Well, don't worry none. Ian's got out a dozen men or so with lights an' guns, an' Bill's got
his. You keep Bill an' Ling to sleep down-stairs. Ian's got the men round the house by this.
The hog'll make noise enough to wake the dead."

"Nice, isn't it, Uncle Jim, having this whelp out gunning for San! I'll keep the boys. Good-night,"
he said hastily as a shadow on the rug engulfed his feet. The rattles spoke behind him.

"There's a big trouble sittin' on my soul," said Onnie. "Your Honor knows there's nothing makes
mortal flesh so wild mad as a whipping, an' this dog does know the way of the house. Do you
keep the agent's lads to-night in this place with guns to hand. The snake's bells keep ringin'."

"My God! Onnie, you're making me believe in your rattles! Listen. Percival's gone out of that
den down the road, swearin' he'll kill San. He's drunk, and Cameron's got men out."

"That 'u'd be the why of the lanterns I was seein' down by the forge. But it's black as the
bowels of purgatory, your Honor, an' him a strong, wicked devil, cruel an' angry. God destroy
him! If he'd tread on a poison snake! No night could be so black as his heart."

"Steady, Onnie!"

"I'm speakin' soft. Himself's not able to hear," she said, her eyes half shut. She rocked slowly
on the amazing feet. "Give me a pistol, your Honor. I'll be for sleepin' outside his door this
night."

"You'll go to bed and keep your door open. If you hear a sound, yell like perdition. Send Bill
in here. Say I want him. That's all. There's no danger, Onnie; but I'm taking no chances."

"We'll take no chances, your Honor."

She turned away quietly, and Rawling shivered at this cool fury. The rattles made his spine
itch, and suddenly his valley seemed like a place of demons. The lanterns circling on the lawn
seemed like frail glow-worms, incredibly useless, and he leaned on the window-pane listening
with fever to the rain.

"All right," said Bill when he had heard. "'Phone the sheriff. The man's dangerous, sir. I
doctored a cut he had the other day, and he tells me he can see at night. That's a lie, of
course, but he's light on his feet, and he's a devil. I've seen some rotten curs in the hospitals,
but he's worse."

"Really, Billy, you sound as fierce as Onnie. She wanted a gun."

The handsome young man bit a lip, and his great body shook.

"This is San," he said, "and the men would kill any one who touched you, and they'd burn any
one who touched San. Sorry if I'm rude."

"We mustn't lose our heads." Rawling talked against his fear. "The man's drunk. He'll never
get near here, and he's got four miles to come in a cold rain. But--"

"May I sleep in San's room?"

"Then he'll know. I don't want him to, or Ling, either; they're imaginative kids. This is a
vile mess, Billy."

"Hush! Then I'll sleep outside his door. I will, sir!"

"All right, old man. Thanks. Ling can sleep in Pete's room. Now I'll 'phone Mackintosh."

But the sheriff did not answer, and his deputy was ill. Rawling shrugged, but when Varian telephoned
that there were thirty men searching, he felt more comfortable.

"You're using the wires a lot, Dad," said Sanford, roaming in. "Anything wrong? Where's Ling
to sleep?"

"In Pete's room. Good-night, Godson. No, nothing wrong."

But Sanford was back presently, his eyes wide.

"I say, Onnie's asleep front of my door and I can't get over her. What's got into the girl?"

"She's worried. Her snake's bells are going, and she thinks the house'll burn down. Let her
be. Sleep with me, and keep my feet warm, Sonny."

"Sure," yawned Sanford. "'Night, Billy."

"Well," said Bill, "that settles that, sir. She'd hear anything, or I will, and you're a light
sleeper. Suppose we lock up as much as we can and play some checkers?"

They locked the doors, and toward midnight Cameron rapped at the library window, his rubber
coat glistening.

"Not a print of the wastrel loon, sir; but the lads will bide out the night. They've whusky
an' biscuits an' keep moving."

"I'll come out myself," Rawling began, but the smith grunted.

"Ye're no stirrin' oot yer hoos, Robert Rawling! Ye're daft! Gin you met this ganglin' assassinator,
wha'd be for maister? San's no to lack a father. Gae to yer bit bed!"

"Gosh!" said Bill, shutting the window, "he's in earnest. He forgot to try to talk English
even. I feel better. The hog's fallen into a hole and gone to sleep. Let's go up."

"I suppose if I tell Onnie San's with me, she'll just change to my door," Rawling considered;
"but I'll try. Poor girl, she's faithful as a dog!"

They mounted softly and beheld her, huddled in a blanket, mountainous, curled outside Sanford's
closed door, just opposite the head of the stairs. Rawling stooped over the heap and spoke
to the tangle of blue-shadowed hair.

"Onnie Killelia, go to bed."

"Leave me be, your Honor. I'm--"

Sleep cut the protest. The rattles sounded feebly, and Rawling stood up.

"Just like a dog," whispered Bill, stealing off to a guest-room. "I'll leave my door open."
He patted the revolver in his jacket and grinned affectionately. "Good-night, Boss."

Rawling touched the switch inside his own door, and the big globe set in the hall ceiling blinked
out. They had decided that, supposing the cockney got so far, a lightless house would perplex
his feet, and he would be the noisier. Rawling could reach this button from his bed, and silently
undressed in the blackness, laying the automatic on the bedside table, reassured by all these
circling folk, Onnie, stalwart Bill, and the loyal men out in the rain. Here slept Sanford,
breathing happily, so lost that he only sighed when his father crept in beside him, and did
not rouse when Rawling thrust an arm under his warm weight to bring him closer, safe in the
perilous night.

The guest-room bed creaked beneath Bill's two hundred pounds of muscle, and Ling snored in
Peter's room. Rawling's nerves eased on the mattress, and hypnotic rain began to deaden him,
against his will. He saw Percival sodden in some ditch, his knife forgotten in brandy's slumbers.
No shout came from the hillside. His mind edged toward vacancy, bore back when the boy murmured
once, then he gained a mid-state where sensation was not, a mist.

* * *

He sat up, tearing the blankets back, because some one moved in the house, and the rain could
be heard more loudly, as if a new window were open. He swung his legs free. Some one breathed
heavily in the hall. Rawling clutched his revolver, and the cold of it stung. This might be
Onnie, any one; but he put his finger on the switch.

"Straight hover--hover the way it was," said a thick, puzzled voice. "There, that one! 'Is
bloody barth!"

The rattles whirred as if their first owner lived. Rawling pressed the switch.

"Your Honor!" Onnie screamed. "Your Honor! Master San! Be lockin' the door inside, Master San!
Out of this, you! You!"

Rawling's foot caught in the doorway of the bright hall, and he stumbled, the light dazzling
on the cockney's wet bulk hurling itself toward the great woman where she stood, her arms flung
cruciform, guarding the empty room. The bodies met with a fearful jar as Rawling staggered
up, and there came a crisp explosion before he could raise his hand. Bill's naked shoulder
cannoned into him, charging, and Bill's revolver clinked against his own. Rawling reeled to
the stair-head, aiming as Bill caught at the man's shirt; but the cockney fell backward, crumpling
down, his face purple, his teeth displayed.

"In the head!" said Bill, and bent to look, pushing the plastered curls from a temple. The
beast whimpered and died; the knife rattled on the planks.

"Dad," cried Sanford, "what on--"

"Stay where you are!" Rawling gasped, sick of this ugliness, dizzy with the stench of powder
and brandy. Death had never seemed so vile. He looked away to the guardian where she knelt
at her post, her hands clasped on the breast of her coarse white robe as if she prayed, the
hair hiding her face.

"I'll get a blanket," Bill said, rising. "There come the men! That you, Ian?"

The smith and a crowd of pale faces crashed up the stairs.

"God forgie us! We let him by--the garden, sir. Alec thought he--"

"Gosh, Onnie!" said Bill, "excuse me! I'll get some clothes on. Here, Ian--"

"Onnie," said Sanford, in the doorway--"Onnie, what's the matter?"

As if to show him this, her hands, unclasping, fell from the dead bosom, and a streak of heart's
blood widened from the knife-wound like the ribbon of some very noble order.

A CUP OF TEA[4]

[Note 4: Copyright, 1917, by Charles Scribner's Sons. Copyright, 1918, by Maxwell Struthers Burt.]

BY MAXWELL STRUTHERS BURT

From Scribner's Magazine.

Young Burnaby was late. He was always late. One associated him with lateness and certain eager,
impossible excuses--he was always coming from somewhere to somewheres, and his "train was delayed,"
or his huge space-devouring motor "had broken down." You imagined him, enveloped in dust and
dusk, his face disguised beyond human semblance, tearing up and down the highways of the world;
or else in the corridor of a train, biting his nails with poorly concealed impatience. As a
matter of fact, when you saw him, he was beyond average correctly attired, and his manner was
suppressed, as if to conceal the keenness that glowed behind his dark eyes and kept the color
mounting and receding in his sunburnt cheeks. All of which, except the keenness, was a strange
thing in a man who spent half his life shooting big game and exploring. But then, one imagined
that Burnaby on the trail and Burnaby in a town were two entirely different persons. He liked
his life with a thrust to it, and in a great city there are so many thrusts that, it is to
be supposed, one of Burnaby's temperament hardly has hours enough in a day to appreciate all
of them and at the same time keep appointments.

On this February night, at all events, he was extremely late, even beyond his custom, and Mrs.
Malcolm, having waited as long as she possibly could, sighed amusedly and told her man to announce
dinner. There were only three others besides herself in the drawing-room, Masters--Sir John
Masters, the English financier--and his wife, and Mrs. Selden, dark, a little silent, with
a flushed, finely cut face and a slightly sorrow-stricken mouth. And already these people had
reached the point where talk is interesting. People did in Mrs. Malcolm's house. One went there
with anticipation, and came away with the delightful, a little vague, exhilaration that follows
an evening where the perfection of the material background--lights, food, wine, flowers--has
been almost forgotten in the thrill of contact with real persons, a rare enough circumstance
in a period when the dullest people entertain the most. In the presence of Mrs. Malcolm even
the very great forgot the suspicions that grow with success and became themselves, and, having
come once, came again vividly, overlooking other people who really had more right to their
attentions than had she.

This was the case with Sir John Masters. And he was a very great man indeed, not only as the
world goes but in himself: a short, heavy man, with a long, heavy head crowned with vibrant,
still entirely dark hair and pointed by a black, carefully kept beard, above which arose--"arose"
is the word, for Sir John's face was architectural--a splendid, slightly curved nose--a buccaneering
nose; a nose that, willy-nilly, would have made its possessor famous. One suspected, far back
in the yeoman strain, a hurried, possibly furtive marriage with gypsy or Jew; a sudden blossoming
into lyricism on the part of a soil-stained Masters. Certainly from somewhere Sir John had
inherited an imagination which was not insular. Dangerous men, these Sir Johns, with their
hooked noses and their lyric eyes!

Mrs. Malcolm described him as fascinating. There was about him that sense of secret power that
only politicians, usually meretriciously, and diplomats, and, above all, great bankers as a
rule possess; yet he seldom talked of his own life, or the mission that had brought him to
New York; instead, in his sonorous, slightly Hebraic voice, he drew other people on to talk
about themselves, or else, to artists and writers and their sort, discovered an amazing, discouraging
knowledge of the trades by which they earned their living. "One feels," said Mrs. Malcolm,
"that one is eyeing a sensitive python. He uncoils beautifully."

They were seated at the round, candle-lit table, the rest of the room in partial shadow, Sir
John looking like a lost Rembrandt, and his blonde wife, with her soft English face, like a
rose-and-gray portrait by Reynolds, when Burnaby strode in upon them ... strode in upon them,
and then, as if remembering the repression he believed in, hesitated, and finally advanced
quietly toward Mrs. Malcolm. One could smell the snowy February night still about him.

"I'm so sorry," he said. "I--"

"You broke down, I suppose," said Mrs. Malcolm, "or the noon train from Washington was late
for the first time in six years. What do you do in Washington, anyway? Moon about the Smithsonian?"

"No," said Burnaby, as he sank into a chair and unfolded his napkin. "Y'see--well, that is--I
ran across a fellow--an Englishman--who knew a chap I met last summer up on the Francis River--I
didn't exactly meet him, that is, I ran into him, and it wasn't the Francis River really, it
was the Upper Liara, a branch that comes in from the northwest. Strange, wasn't it?--this fellow,
this Englishman, got to talking about tea, and that reminded me of the whole thing." He paused
on the last word and, with a peculiar habit that is much his own, stared across the table at
Lady Masters, but over and through her, as if that pretty pink-and-white woman had entirely
disappeared,--and the warm shadows behind her,--and in her place were no one could guess what
vistas of tumbling rivers and barren tundras.

"Tea!" ejaculated Mrs. Malcolm.

Burnaby came back to the flower-scented circle of light.

"Yes," he said soberly, "tea. Exactly."

Mrs. Malcolm's delicate eyebrows rose to a point. "What," she asked, in the tones of delighted
motherhood overlaid with a slight exasperation which she habitually used toward Burnaby, "has
tea got to do with a man you met on the Upper Liara last summer and a man you met this afternoon?
Why tea?"

"A lot," said Burnaby cryptically, and proceeded to apply himself to his salad, for he had
refused the courses his lateness had made him miss. "Y'see," he said, after a moment's reflection,
"it was this way--and it's worth telling, for it's queer. I ran into this Terhune this afternoon
at a club--a big, blond Englishman who's been in the army, but now he's out making money. Owns
a tea house in London. Terhune & Terhune--perhaps you know them?" He turned to Sir John.

"Yes, very well. I imagine this is Arthur Terhune."

"That's the man. Well, his being in tea and that sort of thing got me to telling him about
an adventure I had last summer, and, the first crack out of the box, he said he remembered
the other chap perfectly--had known him fairly well at one time. Odd, wasn't it, when you come
to think of it? A big, blond, freshly bathed Englishman in a club, and that other man away
up there!"

"And the other man? Is he in the tea business too?" asked Mrs. Selden. She was interested by
now, leaning across the table, her dark eyes catching light from the candles. It was something--to
interest Mrs. Selden.

"No," said Burnaby abruptly. "No. He's in no business at all, except going to perdition. Y'see,
he's a squaw-man--a big, black squaw-man, with a nose like a Norman king's. The sort of person
you imagine in evening clothes in the Carleton lounge. He might have been anything but what he is."

"I wonder," said Sir John, "why we do that sort of thing so much more than other nations? Our
very best, too. It's odd."

"It was odd enough the way it happened to me, anyhow," said Burnaby. "I'd been knocking around
up there all summer, just an Indian and myself--around what they call Fort Francis and the
Pelly Lakes, and toward the end of August we came down the Liara in a canoe. We were headed
for Lower Post on the Francis, and it was all very lovely until, one day, we ran into a rapid,
a devil of a thing, and my Indian got drowned."

"How dreadful!" murmured Lady Masters.

"It was," agreed Burnaby; "but it might have been worse--for me, that is. It couldn't have
been much worse for the poor devil of an Indian, could it? But I had a pretty fair idea of
the country, and had only about fifty miles to walk, and a little waterproof box of grub turned
up out of the wreck, so I wasn't in any danger of starving. It was lonely, though--it's lonely
enough country, anyhow, and of course I couldn't help thinking about that Indian and the way
big rapids roar. I couldn't sleep when night came--saw black rocks sticking up out of white
water like the fangs of a mad dog. I was pretty near the horrors, I guess. So you can imagine
I wasn't sorry when, about four o'clock of the next afternoon, I came back to the river again
and a teepee standing up all by itself on a little pine-crowned bluff. In front of the teepee
was an old squaw--she wasn't very old, really, but you know how Indians get--boiling something
over a fire in a big pot. 'How!' I said, and she grunted. 'If you'll lend me part of your fire,
I'll make some tea,' I continued. 'And if you're good, I'll give you some when it's done.'
Tea was one of the things cached in the little box that had been saved. She moved the pot to
one side, so I judged she understood, and I trotted down to the river for water and set to
work. As you can guess, I was pretty anxious for any kind of conversation by then, so after
a while I said brightly: 'All alone?' She grunted again and pointed over her shoulder to the
teepee. 'Well, seeing you're so interested,' said I, 'and that the tea's done, we'll all go
inside and ask your man to a party--if you'll dig up two tin cups. I've got one of my own.'
She raised the flap of the teepee and I followed her. I could see she wasn't a person who wasted
words. Inside a little fire was smouldering, and seated with his back to us was a big, broad-shouldered
buck, with a dark blanket wrapped around him. 'Your good wife,' I began cheerily--I was getting
pretty darned sick of silence--'has allowed me to make some tea over your fire. Have some?
I'm shipwrecked from a canoe and on my way to Lower Post. If you don't understand what I say,
it doesn't make the slightest difference, but for God's sake grunt--just once, to show you're
interested.' He grunted. 'Thanks!' I said, and poured the tea into the three tin cups. The
squaw handed one to her buck. Then I sat down.

"There was nothing to be heard but the gurgling of the river outside and the rather noisy breathing
we three made as we drank; and then--very clearly, just as if we'd been sitting in an English
drawing-room--in the silence a voice said: 'By Jove, that's the first decent cup of tea I've
had in ten years!' Yes, just that! 'By Jove, that's the first decent cup of tea I've had in
ten years!' I looked at the buck, but he hadn't moved, and then I looked at the squaw, and
she was still squatting and sipping her tea, and then I said, very quietly, for I knew my nerves
were still ragged, 'Did any one speak?' and the buck turned slowly and looked me up and down,
and I saw the nose I was talking about--the nose like a Norman king's. I was rattled, I admit;
I forgot my manners. 'You're English!' I gasped out; and the buck said very sweetly: 'That's
none of your damned business.'"

Burnaby paused and looked about the circle of attentive faces. "That's all. But it's enough,
isn't it? To come out of nothing, going nowheres, and run into a dirty Indian who says: 'By
Jove, that's the first decent cup of tea I've had in ten years!' And then along comes this
Terhune and says that he knows the man."

Mrs. Malcolm raised her chin from the hand that had been supporting it. "I don't blame you,"
she said, "for being late."

"And this man," interrupted Sir John's sonorous voice, "this squaw-man, did he tell you anything
about himself?"

Burnaby shook his head. "Not likely," he answered. "I tried to draw him out, but he wasn't
drawable. Finally he said: 'If you'll shut your damned mouth I'll give you two dirty blankets
to sleep on. If you won't, I'll kick you out of here.' The next morning I pulled out, leaving
him crouched over the little teepee fire nursing his knees. But I hadn't gone twenty yards
when he came to the flap and called out after me: 'I say!' I turned about sullenly. His dirty
face had a queer, cracked smile on it. 'Look here! Do you--where did you get that tea from,
anyway? I--there's a lot of skins I've got; I don't suppose you'd care to trade, would you?'
I took the tea out of the air-tight box and put it on the ground. Then I set off down river.
Henderson, the factor at Lower Post, told me a little about him: his name--it wasn't assumed,
it seems; and that he'd been in the country about fifteen years, going from bad to worse. He
was certainly at 'worse' when I saw him." Burnaby paused and stared across the table again
with his curious, far-away look. "Beastly, isn't it?" he said, as if to himself. "Cold up there
now, too! The snow must be deep." He came back to the present. "And I suppose, you know," he
said, smiling deprecatingly at Mrs. Selden, "he's just as fond of flowers and lights and things
as we are."

Mrs. Selden shivered.

"Fonder!" said Sir John. "Probably fonder. That sort is. It's the poets of the world who can't
write poetry who go to smash that way. They ought to take a term at business, and"--he reflected--"the
business men, of course, at poetry." He regarded Burnaby with his inscrutable eyes, in the
depths of which danced little flecks of light.

"What did you say this man's name was?" asked Lady Masters, in her soft voice. She had an extraordinary
way of advancing, with a timid rush, as it were, into the foreground, and then receding again,
melting back into the shadows. She rarely ever spoke without a sensation of astonishment making
itself felt. "She is like a mist," thought Mrs. Malcolm.

"Bewsher," said Burnaby--"Geoffrey Boisselier Bewsher. Quite a name, isn't it? He was in the
cavalry. His family are rather swells in an old-fashioned way. He is the fifth son--or seventh,
or whatever it is--of a baronet and, Terhune says, was very much in evidence about London twenty-odd
years ago. Terhune used to see him in clubs, and every now and then dining out. Although he
himself, of course, was a much younger man. Very handsome he was, too, Terhune said, and a
favorite. And then one day he just disappeared--got out--no one knows exactly why. Terhune
doesn't. Lost his money, or a woman, or something like that. The usual thing, I suppose. I--You
didn't hurt yourself, did you?"...

He had paused abruptly and was looking across the table; for there had been a little tinkle
and a crash of breaking glass, and now a pool of champagne was forming beside Lady Masters's
plate, and finding its way in a thin thread of gold along the cloth. There was a moment's silence,
and then she advanced again out of the shadows with her curious soft rush. "How clumsy I am!"
she murmured. "My arm--My bracelet! I--I'm so sorry!" She looked swiftly about her, and then
at Burnaby. "Oh, no! I'm not cut, thanks!" Her eyes held a pained embarrassment. He caught
the look, and her eyelids flickered and fell before his gaze, and then, as the footman repaired
the damage, she sank back once more into the half-light beyond the radiance of the candles.
"How shy she is!" thought Burnaby. "So many of these English women are. She's an important
woman in her own right, too." He studied her furtively.

Into the soft silence came Sir John's carefully modulated voice. "Barbara and I," he explained,
"will feel this very much. We both knew Bewsher." His eyes became somber. "This is very distressing,"
he said abruptly.

"By Jove!" ejaculated Burnaby, and raised his head like an alert hound.

"How odd it all is!" said Mrs. Malcolm. But she was wondering why men are so queer with their
wives--resent so much the slightest social clumsiness on their part, while in other women--provided
the offense is not too great--it merely amuses them. Even the guarded manners of Sir John had
been disturbed. For a moment he had been very angry with the shadow that bore his name; one
could tell by the swift glance he had cast in her direction. After all, upsetting a glass of
champagne was a very natural sequel to a story such as Burnaby had told, a story about a former
acquaintance--perhaps friend.

Sir John thoughtfully helped himself to a spoonful of his dessert before he looked up; when
he did so he laid down his spoon and sat back in his chair with the manner of a man who has
made a sudden decision. "No," he said, and an unexpected little smile hovered about his lips,
"it isn't so odd. Bewsher was rather a figure of a man twenty years ago. Shall I tell you his
history?"

To Mrs. Malcolm, watching with alert, humorous eyes, there came a curious impression, faint
but distinct, like wind touching her hair; as if, that is, a door into the room had opened
and shut. She leaned forward, supporting her chin in her hand.

"Of course," she said.

Sir John twisted between his fingers the stem of his champagne-glass and studied thoughtfully
the motes of at the heart of the amber wine. "You see," he began thoughtfully, "it's such a
difficult story to tell--difficult because it took twenty-five--and, now that Mr. Burnaby has
furnished the sequel, forty-five years--to live; and difficult because it is largely a matter
of psychology. I can only give you the high lights, as it were. You must fill in the rest for
yourselves. You must imagine, that is, Bewsher and this other fellow--this Morton. I can't
give you his real name--it is too important; you would know it. No, it isn't obviously dramatic.
And yet--" his voice suddenly became vibrant--"such things compose, as a matter of fact, the
real drama of the world. It--" he looked about the table swiftly and leaned forward, and then,
as if interrupting himself, "but what was obviously dramatic," he said--and the little dancing
sparks in the depths of his eyes were peculiarly noticeable--"was the way I, of all people,
heard it. Yes. You see, I heard it at a dinner party like this, in London; and Morton--the
man himself--told the story." He paused, and with half-closed eyes studied the effect of his
announcement.

"You mean--?" asked Burnaby.

"Exactly." Sir John spoke with a certain cool eagerness. "He sat up before all those people
and told the inner secrets of his life; and of them all I was the only one who suspected the
truth. Of course, he was comparatively safe, none of them knew him well except myself, but
think of it! The bravado--the audacity! Rather magnificent, wasn't it?" He sank back once more
in his chair.

Mrs. Malcolm agreed. "Yes," she said. "Magnificent and insulting."

Sir John smiled. "My dear lady," he asked, "doesn't life consist largely of insults from the
strong to the weak?"

"And were all these people so weak, then?"

"No, in their own way they were fairly important, I suppose, but compared to Morton they were
weak--very weak--Ah, yes! I like this custom of smoking at table. Thanks!" He selected a cigarette
deliberately, and stooped toward the proffered match. The flame illumined the swarthy curve
of his beard and the heavy lines of his dark face. "You see," he began, straightening up in
his chair, "the whole thing--that part of it, and the part I'm to tell--is really, if you choose,
an allegory of strength, of strength and weakness. On the one side Morton--there's strength,
sheer, undiluted power, the thing that runs the world; and on the other Bewsher, the ordinary
man, with all his mixed-up ideas of right and wrong and the impossible, confused thing he calls
a 'code'--Bewsher, and later on the girl. She too is part of the allegory. She represents--what
shall I say? A composite portrait of the ordinary young woman? Religion, I suppose. Worldly
religion. The religion of most of my good friends in England. A vague but none the less passionate
belief in a heaven populated by ladies and gentlemen who dine out with a God who resembles
royalty. And coupled with this religion the girl had, of course, as have most of her class,
a very distinct sense of her own importance in the world; not that exactly--personally she
was over-modest; a sense rather of her importance as a unit of an important family, and a deep-rooted
conviction of the fundamental necessity of unimportant things: parties, and class-worship,
and the whole jumbled-up order as it is. The usual young woman, that is, if you lay aside her
unusual beauty. And, you see, people like Bewsher and the girl haven't much chance against
a man like Morton, have they? Do you remember the girl, my dear?" he asked, turning to his wife.

"Yes," murmured Lady Masters.

"Well, then," continued Sir John, "you must imagine this Morton, an ugly little boy of twelve,
going up on a scholarship to a great public school--a rather bitter little boy, without any
particular prospects ahead of him except those his scholarship held out; and back of him a
poor, stunted life, with a mother in it--a sad dehumanized creature, I gathered, who subsisted
on the bounty of a niggardly brother. And this, you can understand, was the first thing that
made Morton hate virtue devoid of strength. His mother, he told me, was the best woman he had
ever known. The world had beaten her unmercifully. His earliest recollection was hearing her
cry at night.... And there, at the school, he had his first glimpse of the great world that
up to then he had only dimly suspected. Dramatic enough in itself, isn't it?--if you can visualize
the little dark chap. A common enough drama, too, the Lord knows. We people on top are bequeathing
misery to our posterity when we let the Mortons of the world hate the rich. And head and shoulders
above the other boys of his age at the school was Bewsher; not that materially, of course,
there weren't others more important; Bewsher's family was old and rich as such families go,
but he was very much a younger son, and his people lived mostly in the country; yet even then
there was something about him--a manner, an adeptness in sports, an unsought popularity, that
picked him out; the beginnings of that Norman nose that Mr. Burnaby has mentioned. And here"--Sir
John paused and puffed thoughtfully at his cigarette--"is the first high light.

"To begin with, of course, Morton hated Bewsher and all he represented, hated him in a way
that only a boy of his nature can; and then, one day--I don't know exactly when it could have
been, probably a year or two after he had gone up to school--he began to see quite clearly
what this hate meant; began to see that for such as he to hate the Bewshers of the world was
the sheerest folly--a luxury far beyond his means. Quaint, wasn't it? In a boy of his age!
You can imagine him working it out at night, in his narrow dormitory bed, when the other boys
were asleep. You see, he realized, dimly at first, clearly at last, that through Bewsher and
his kind lay the hope of Morton and his kind. Nice little boys think the same thing, only they
are trained not to admit it. That was the first big moment of Morton's life, and with the determination
characteristic of him he set out to accomplish what he had decided. In England we make our
future through our friends, in this country you make it through your enemies. But it wasn't
easy for Morton; such tasks never are. He had a good many insults to swallow. In the end, however,
from being tolerated he came to be indispensable, and from being indispensable eventually to
be liked. He had planned his campaign with care. Carefulness, recklessly carried out, has been,
I think, the guiding rule of his life. He had modelled himself on Bewsher; he walked like Bewsher;
tried to think like Bewsher--that is, in the less important things of life--and, with the divination
that marks his type of man, the little money he had, the little money that as a schoolboy he
could borrow, he had spent with precision on clothes and other things that brought him personal
distinction; in what people call necessities he starved himself. By the time he was ready to
leave school you could hardly have told him from the man he had set out to follow: he was equally
well-mannered; equally at his ease; if anything, more conscious of prerogative than Bewsher.
He had come to spend most of his holidays at Bewsher's great old house in Gloucestershire.
That, too, was an illumination. It showed him what money was made for--the sunny quiet of the
place, the wheels of a spacious living that ran so smoothly, the long gardens, the inevitableness
of it all. Some day, he told himself, he would have just such a house. He has. It is his mistress.
The world has not allowed him much of the poetry that, as you must already see, the man has
in him; he takes it out on his place.

"It was in Morton's last year at Oxford, just before his graduation, that the second great
moment of his life occurred. He had done well at his college, not a poor college either; and
all the while, you must remember, he was borrowing money and running up bills. But this didn't
bother him. He was perfectly assured in his own mind concerning his future. He had counted
costs. In that May, Bewsher, who from school had gone to Sandhurst, came up on a visit with
two or three other fledgling officers, and they had a dinner in Morton's rooms. It turned into
rather a 'rag,' as those things do, and it was there, across a flower-strewn, wine-stained
table, that Morton had his second revelation. He wasn't drunk--he never got drunk; the others
were. The thing came in upon him slowly, warmingly, like the breeze that stirred the curtains.
He felt himself, as never before, a man. You can see him sitting back in his chair, in the
smoke and the noise and the foolish singing, cool, his eyes a little closed. He knew now that
he had passed the level of these men; yes, even the shining mark Bewsher had set. He had gone
on, while they had stood still. To him, he suddenly realized, and to such as he, belonged the
heritage of the years, not to these men who thought they held it. These old gray buildings
stretching away into the May dusk, the history of a thousand years, were his. These sprawled
young aristocrats before him--they, whether they eventually came to know it or not, they, and
Bewsher with them--would one day do his bidding: come when he beckoned, go when he sent. It
was a big thought, wasn't it, for a man of twenty-two?" Sir John paused and puffed at his cigarette.

"That was the second high light," he continued, "and the third did not come until fifteen years
later. Bewsher went into the Indian army--his family had ideas of service--and Morton into
a banking-house in London. And there, as deliberately as he had taken them up, he laid aside
for the time being all the social perquisites which he had with so much pains acquired. Do
you know--he told me that for fifteen years not once had he dined out, except when he thought
his ambitions would be furthered by so doing, and then, as one turns on a tap, he turned on
the charm he now knew himself to possess. It is not astonishing, is it, when you come to think
of it, that eventually he became rich and famous? Most people are unwilling to sacrifice their
youth to their future. He wasn't. But it wasn't a happy time. He hated it. He paid off his
debts, however, and at the end of the fifteen years found himself a big man in a small way,
with every prospect of becoming a big man in a big way. Then, of course--such men do--he began
to look about him. He wanted wider horizons, he wanted luxury, he wanted a wife; and he wanted
them as a starved man wants food. He experienced comparatively little difficulty in getting
started. Some of his school and university friends remembered him, and there was a whisper
about that he was a man that bore watching. But afterward he stuck. The inner citadel of London
is by no means as assailable as the outer fortifications lead one to suppose.

"They say a man never has a desire but there's an angel or a devil to write it down. Morton
had hardly made his discovery when Bewsher turned up from India, transferred to a crack cavalry
regiment; a sunburnt, cordial Bewsher, devilishly determined to enjoy the fulness of his prime.
On his skirts, as he had done once before, Morton penetrated farther and farther into the esoteric
heart of society. I'm not sure just how Bewsher felt toward Morton at the time; he liked him,
I think; at all events, he had the habit of him. As for Morton, he liked Bewsher as much as
he dared; he never permitted himself to like any one too much.

"I don't know how it is with you, but I have noticed again and again that intimate friends
are prone to fall in love with the same woman: perhaps it is because they have so many tastes
in common; perhaps it is jealousy--I don't know. Anyhow, that is what happened to these two,
Morton first, then Bewsher; and it is characteristic that the former mentioned it to no one,
while the latter was confidential and expansive. Such men do not deserve women, and yet they
are often the very men women fall most in love with. At first the girl had been attracted to
Morton, it seems; he intrigued her--no doubt the sense of power about him; but the handsomer
man, when he entered the running, speedily drew ahead. You can imagine the effect of this upon
her earlier suitor. It was the first rebuff that for a long time had occurred to him in his
ordered plan of life. He resented it and turned it over in his mind, and eventually, as it
always does to men of his kind, his opportunity came. You see, unlike Bewsher and his class,
all his days had been an exercise in the recognition and appreciation of chances. He isolated
the inevitable fly in the ointment, and in this particular ointment the fly happened to be
Bewsher's lack of money and the education the girl had received. She was poor in the way that
only the daughter of a great house can be. To Morton, once he was aware of the fly, and once
he had combined the knowledge of it with what these two people most lacked, it was a simple
thing. They lacked, as you have already guessed, courage and directness. On Morton's side was
all the dunder-headism of an aristocracy, all its romanticism, all its gross materialism, all
its confusion of ideals. But you mustn't think that he, Morton, was cold or objective in all
this: far from it; he was desperately in love with the girl himself, and he was playing his
game like a man in a corner--all his wits about him, but fever in his heart.

"There was the situation, an old one--a girl who dare not marry a poor man, and a poor man
cracking his brains to know where to get money from. I dare say Bewsher never questioned the
rightness of it all--he was too much in love with the girl, his own training had been too similar.
And Morton, hovering on the outskirts, talked--to weak people the most fatal doctrine in the
world--the doctrine of power, the doctrine that each man and woman can have just what they
want if they will only get out and seek it. That's true for the big people; for the small it
usually spells death. They falter on methods. They are too afraid of unimportant details. His
insistence had its results even more speedily than he had hoped. Before long the girl, too,
was urging Bewsher on to effort. It isn't the first time goodness has sent weakness to the
devil. Meanwhile the instigator dropped from his one-time position of tentative lover to that
of adviser in particular. It was just the position that at the time he most desired.

"Things came to a head on a warm night in April. Bewsher dropped in upon Morton in his chambers.
Very handsome he looked, too, I dare say, in his evening clothes, with an opera-coat thrown
back from his shoulders. I remember well myself his grand air, with a touch of cavalry swagger
about it. I've no doubt he leaned against the chimney-piece and tapped his leg with his stick.
And the upshot of it was that he wanted money.

"Oh, no! not a loan. It wasn't as bad as that. He had enough to screw along with himself; although
he was frightfully in debt. He wanted a big sum. An income. To make money, that was. He didn't
want to go into business if he could help it; hadn't any ability that way; hated it. But perhaps
Morton could put him in the way of something? He didn't mind chances."

"Do you see?" Sir John leaned forward. "And he never realized the vulgarity of it--that product
of five centuries, that English gentleman. Never realized the vulgarity of demanding of life
something for nothing; of asking from a man as a free gift what that man had sweated for and
starved for all his life; yes, literally, all his life. It was an illumination, as Morton said,
upon that pitiful thing we call 'class.' He demanded all this as his right, too; demanded power,
the one precious possession. Well, the other man had his code as well, and the first paragraph
in it was that a man shall get only what he works for. Can you imagine him, the little ugly
man, sitting at his table and thinking all this? And suddenly he got to his feet. 'Yes,' he
said, 'I'll make you a rich man.' But he didn't say he would keep him one. That was the third
high light--the little man standing where all through the ages had stood men like him, the
secret movers of the world, while before them, supplicating, had passed the beauty and the
pride of their times. In the end they all beg at the feet of power--the kings and the fighting
men. And yet, although this was the great, hidden triumph of his life, and, moreover, beyond
his hopes a realization of the game he had been playing--for it put Bewsher, you see, utterly
in his power--Morton said at the moment it made him a little sick. It was too crude; Bewsher's
request too unashamed; it made suddenly too cheap, since men could ask for it so lightly, all
the stakes for which he, Morton, had sacrificed the slow minutes and hours of his life. And
then, of course, there was this as well: Bewsher had been to Morton an ideal, and ideals can't
die, even the memory of them, without some pain."

Mrs. Malcolm, watching with lips a little parted, said to herself: "He has uncoiled too much."

"Yes"--Sir John reached out his hand and, picking up a long-stemmed rose from the table, began
idly to twist it in his fingers. "And that was the end. From then on the matter was simple.
It was like a duel between a trained swordsman and a novice; only it wasn't really a duel at
all, for one of the antagonists was unaware that he was fighting. I suppose that most people
would call it unfair. I have wondered. And yet Bewsher, in a polo game, or in the game of social
life, would not have hesitated to use all the skill and craft he knew. But, you say, he would
not have played against beginners. Well, he had asked himself into this game; he had not been
invited. And so, all through that spring and into the summer and autumn the three-cornered
contest went on, and into the winter and on to the spring beyond. Unwittingly, the girl was
playing more surely than ever into Morton's hand. The increasing number of Bewsher's platitudes
about wealth, about keeping up tradition, about religion, showed that. He even talked vaguely
about giving up the army and going into business. 'It must have its fascinations, you know,'
he remarked lightly. In the eyes of both of them Morton had become sort of fairy godfather--a
mysterious, wonderful gnome at whose beck gold leaped from the mountainside. It was just the
illusion he wished to create. In the final analysis the figure of the gnome is the most beloved
figure in the rotten class to which we belong.

"And then, just as spontaneously as it had come, Bewsher's money began to melt away--slowly
at first; faster afterward until, finally, he was back again to his original income. This was
a time of stress, of hurried consultations, of sympathy on the part of Morton, of some rather
ugly funk on the part of Bewsher; and Morton realized that in the eyes of the girl he was rapidly
becoming once more the dominant figure. It didn't do him much good"--Sir John broke the stem
of the rose between his fingers.

"Soon there was an end to it all. There came, finally, a very unpleasant evening. This too
was in April; April a year after Bewsher's visit to Morton's chambers, only this time the scene
was laid in an office. Bewsher had put a check on the desk. 'Here,' he said, 'that will tide
me over until I can get on my feet,' and his voice was curiously thick; and Morton, looking
down, had seen that the signature wasn't genuine--a clumsy business done by a clumsy man--and,
despite all his training, from what he said, a little cold shiver had run up and down his back.
This had gone farther than he had planned. But he made no remark, simply pocketed the check,
and the next day settled out of his own pockets Bewsher's sorry affairs; put him back, that
is, where he had started, with a small income mortgaged beyond hope. Then he sent a note to
the girl requesting an interview on urgent business. She saw him that night in her drawing-room.
She was very lovely. Morton was all friendly sympathy. It wasn't altogether unreal, either.
I think, from What he told me, he was genuinely touched. But he felt, you know--the urge, the
goad, of his own career. His kind do. Ultimately they are not their own masters. He showed
the girl the check--not at first, you understand, but delicately, after preliminary discussion;
reluctantly upon repeated urging. 'What was he to do? What would she advise? Bewsher was safe,
of course; he had seen to that; but the whole unintelligible, shocking aspect of the thing!'
He tore the check up and threw it in the fire. He was not unaware that the girl's eyes admired
him. It was a warm night. He said good-by and walked home along the deserted street. He remembered,
he told me, how sweet the trees smelled. He was not happy. You see, Bewsher had been the nearest
approach to a friend he had ever had.

"That practically finished the sordid business. What the girl said to Bewsher Morton never
knew; he trusted to her conventionalized religion and her family pride to break Bewsher's heart,
and to Bewsher's sentimentality to eliminate him forever from the scene. In both surmises he
was correct; he was only not aware that at the same time the girl had broken her own heart.
He found that out afterward. And Bewsher eliminated himself more thoroughly than necessary.
I suppose the shame of the thing was to him like a blow to a thoroughbred, instead of an incentive,
as it would have been to a man of coarser fibre. He went from bad to worse, resigned from his
regiment, finally disappeared. Personally, I had hoped that he had begun again somewhere on
the outskirts of the world. But he isn't that sort. There's not much of the Norman king to
him except his nose. The girl married Morton. He gave her no time to recover from her gratitude.
He felt very happy, he told me, the day of his wedding, very elated. It was one of those rare
occasions when he felt that the world was a good place. Another high light, you see. And it
was no mean thing, if you consider it, for a man such as he to marry the daughter of a peer,
and at the same time to love her. He was not a gentleman, you understand, he could never be
that--it was the one secret thing that always hurt him--no amount of brains, no amount of courage
could make him what he wasn't; he never lied to himself as most men do; so he had acquired
a habit of secretly triumphing over those who possessed the gift. The other thing that hurt
him was when, a few months later, he discovered that his wife still loved Bewsher and always
would. And that"--Sir John picked up the broken rose again--"is, I suppose, the end of the story."

There was a moment's silence and then Burnaby lifted his pointed chin. "By George!" he said,
"it is interesting to know how things really happen, isn't it? But I think--you have, haven't
you, left out the real point. Do you--would you mind telling just why you imagine Morton did
this thing? Told his secret before all those people? It wasn't like him, was it?"

Sir John slowly lighted another cigarette, and then he turned to Burnaby and smiled. "Yes,"
he said, "it was extremely like him. Still, it's very clever of you, very clever. Can't you
guess? It isn't so very difficult."

"No," said Burnaby, "I can't guess at all."

"Well, then, listen." And to Mrs. Malcolm it seemed as if Sir John had grown larger, had merged
in the shadows about him; at least he gave that impression, for he sat up very straight and
threw back his shoulders. For a moment he hesitated, then he began, "You must go back to the
dinner I was describing," he said--"the dinner in London. I too was intrigued as you are, and
when it was over I followed Morton out and walked with him toward his club. And, like you,
I asked the question. I think that he had known all along that I suspected; at all events,
it is characteristic of the man that he did not try to bluff me. He walked on for a little
while in silence, and then he laughed abruptly. 'Yes,' he said, 'I'll tell you. Yes. Just this.
What there is to be got, I've got; what work can win I've won; but back of it all there's something
else, and back even of that there's a careless god who gives his gifts where they are least
deserved. That's one reason why I talked as I did to-night. To all of us--the men like me--there
comes in the end a time when we realize that what a man can do we can do, but that love, the
touch of other people's minds, these two things are the gifts of the careless god. And it irritates
us, I suppose, irritates us! We want them in a way that the ordinary man who has them cannot
understand. We want them as damned souls in hell want water. And sometimes the strain's too
much. It was to-night. To touch other minds, even for a moment, even if they hate you while
you are doing it, that's the thing! To lay yourself, just once, bare to the gaze of ordinary
people! With the hope, perhaps, that even then they may still find in you something to admire
or love. Self-revelation! Every man confesses sometime. It happened that I chose a dinner party.
Do you understand?'" It was almost as if Sir John himself had asked the question.

"And then"--he was speaking in his usual calm tones again--"there happened a curious thing,
a very curious thing, for Morton stopped and turned toward me and began to laugh. I thought
he would never stop. It was rather uncanny, under the street lamp there, this usually rather
quiet man. 'And that,' he said at length, 'that's only half the story. The cream of it is this:
the way I myself felt, sitting there among all those soft, easily lived people. That's the
cream of it. To flout them, to sting them, to laugh at them, to know you had more courage than
all of them put together, you who were once so afraid of them! To feel that--even if they knew
it was about yourself you were talking--that even then they were afraid of you, and would to-morrow
ask you back again to their houses. That's power! That's worth doing! After all, you can keep
your love and your sympathy and your gentlemen; it's only to men like me, men who've sweated
and come up, that moments arise such as I've had to-night.' And then, 'It's rather a pity,'
he said, after a pause, 'that of them all you alone knew of whom I was talking. Rather a pity,
isn't it?'" Sir John hesitated and looked about the table. "It was unusual, wasn't it?" he
said at length gently. "Have I been too dramatic?"

In the little silence that followed, Mrs. Malcolm leaned forward, her eyes starry. "I would
rather," she said, "talk to Bewsher in his teepee than talk to Morton with all his money."

Sir John looked at her and smiled--his charming smile. "Oh, no, you wouldn't," he said. "Oh,
no! We say those things, but we don't mean them. If you sat next to Morton at dinner you'd
like him; but as for Bewsher you'd despise him, as all right-minded women despise a failure.
Oh, no; you'd prefer Morton."

"Perhaps you're right," sighed Mrs. Malcolm; "pirates are fascinating, I suppose." She arose
to her feet. Out of the shadows Lady Masters advanced to meet her. "She is like a mist," thought
Mrs. Malcolm. "Exactly like a rather faint mist."

Burnaby leaned over and lit a cigarette at one of the candles. "And, of course," he said quietly,
without raising his head, "the curious thing is that this fellow Morton, despite all his talk
of power, in the end is merely a ghost of Bewsher, after all, isn't he?"

Sir John turned and looked at the bowed sleek head with a puzzled expression. "A ghost!" he
murmured. "I don't think I quite understand."

"It's very simple," said Burnaby, and raised his head. "Despite all Morton has done, in the
things worth while, in the things he wants the most, he can at best be only a shadow of the
shadow Bewsher has left--a shadow of a man to the woman who loves Bewsher, a shadow of a friend
to the men who liked Bewsher, a shadow of a gentleman to the gentlemen about him. A ghost,
in other words. It's the inevitable end of all selfishness. I think Bewsher has rather the
best of it, don't you?"

"I--I had never thought of it in quite that light," said Sir John, and followed Mrs. Malcolm.

They went into the drawing-room beyond--across a hallway, and up a half-flight of stairs, and
through glass doors. "Play for us!" said Mrs. Malcolm, and Burnaby, that remarkable young man,
sat down to the piano and for perhaps an hour made the chords sob to a strange music, mostly
his own.

"That's Bewsher!" he said when he was through, and had sat back on his stool, and was sipping
a long-neglected cordial.

"Br-r-r-!" shivered Mrs. Selden from her place by the fire. "How unpleasant you are!"

Sir John looked troubled. "I hope," he said, "my story hasn't depressed you too much. Burnaby's
was really worse, you know. Well, I must be going." He turned to Mrs. Malcolm. "You are one
of the few women who can make me sit up late."

He bade each in turn good-night in his suave, charming, slightly Hebraic manner. To Burnaby
he said: "Thank you for the music. Improvisation is perhaps the happiest of gifts."

But Burnaby for once was awkward. He was watching Sir John's face with the curious, intent
look of a forest animal that so often possessed his long, dark eyes. Suddenly he remembered
himself. "Oh, yes," he said hastily, "I beg your pardon. Thanks, very much."

"Good-night!" Sir John and Lady Masters passed through the glass doors.

Burnaby paused a moment where he had shaken hands, and then, with the long stride characteristic
of him, went to the window and, drawing aside the curtain, peered into the darkness beyond.
He stood listening until the purr of a great motor rose and died on the snow-muffled air. "He's
gone!" he said, and turned back into the room. He spread his arms out and dropped them to his
sides. "Swastika!" he said. "And God keep us from the evil eye!"

"What do you mean?" asked Mrs. Malcolm.

"Sir John," said Burnaby. "He has 'a bad heart.'"

"Stop talking your Indian talk and tell us what you mean."

Burnaby balanced himself on the hearth. "Am I to understand you don't know?" he asked. "Well,
Morton's Masters, and 'the girl's' Lady Masters, and Bewsher--well, he's just a squaw-man."

"I don't believe it!" said Mrs. Malcolm. "He wouldn't dare."

"Wouldn't dare?" Burnaby laughed shortly. "My dear Minna, he'd dare anything if it gave him
a sense of power."

"But why--why did he choose us? We're not so important as all that?"

"Because--well, Bewsher's name came up. Because, well, you heard what he said--self-revelation--men
who had sweated. Because--" suddenly Burnaby took a step forward and his jaw shot out--"because
that shadow of his, that wife of his, broke a champagne-glass when I said Geoffrey Boisselier
Bewsher; broke her champagne-glass and, I've no doubt, cried out loud in her heart. Power can't
buy love--no; but power can stamp to death anything that won't love it. That's Masters. I can
tell a timber-wolf far off. Can you see him now in his motor? He'll have turned the lights
out, and she--his wife--will be looking out of the window at the snow. All you can see of him
would be his nose and his beard and the glow of his cigar--except his smile. You could see
that when the car passed a corner lamp, couldn't you?"

"I don't believe it yet," said Mrs. Malcolm. "It's too preposterous."

LONELY PLACES[5]

[Note 5: Copyright, 1917, by The Pictorial Review Company. Copyright, 1918, by Francis Buzzell.]

BY FRANCIS BUZZELL

From The Pictorial Review

She was not quite forty years old, but so aged was she in appearance that another twenty-five
years would not find her perceptibly older. And to the people of Almont she was still Abbie
Snover, or "that Snover girl." Age in Almont is not reckoned in years, but by marriage, and
by children, and grandchildren.

Nearly all the young men of Abbie's generation had gone to the City, returning only in after
years, with the intention of staying a week or two weeks, and leaving at the end of a day,
or two days. So Abbie never married.

It had never occurred to Abbie to leave Almont because all the young men had gone away. She
had been born in the big house at the foot of Tillson Street; she had never lived anywhere
else; she had never slept anywhere but in the black walnut bed in the South bedroom.

At the age of twenty-five, Abbie inherited the big house, and with it hired-man Chris. He was
part of her inheritance. Her memory of him, like her memory of the big house, went back as
far as her memory of herself.

Every Winter evening, between seven and eight o'clock, Abbie lighted the glass-handled lamp,
placed it on the marble-topped table in the parlor window, and sat down beside it. The faint
light of this lamp, gleaming through the snow-hung, shelving evergreens, was the only sign
that the big house was there, and occupied. When the wind blew from the West she could occasionally
hear a burst of laughter from the boys and girls sliding down Giddings's Hill; the song of
some young farmer driving home. She thought of the Spring, when the snow would disappear, and
the honeysuckle would flower, and the wrens would again occupy the old teapots hung in the
vines of the dining-room porch.

The things that made the people of Almont interesting to each other and drew them together
meant nothing to Abbie Snover. When she had become too old to be asked in marriage by any one,
she had stopped going to dances and to sleigh-rides, and no one had asked her why. Then she
had left the choir.

Except when she went to do her marketing, Abbie was never seen on the streets.

For fifteen years after Amos Snover died, Abbie and Old Chris lived alone in the big house.
Every Saturday morning, as her mother had done before her, Abbie went to the grocery store,
to the butcher shop, and to "Newberry's." She always walked along the East side of Main Street,
Old Chris, with the market-basket, following about three feet behind her. And every Saturday
night Old Chris went down-town to sit in the back of Pot Lippincott's store and visit with
Owen Frazer, who drove in from the sixty acres he farmed as a "renter" at Mile Corners. Once
every week Abbie made a batch of cookies, cutting the thin-rolled dough into the shape of leaves
with an old tin cutter that had been her mother's. She stored the cookies in the shiny tin
pail that stood on the shelf in the clothes-press of the downstairs bedroom, because that was
where her mother had always kept them, to be handy and yet out of reach of the hired help.
And when Jennie Sanders's children came to her door on their way home from school she gave
them two cookies each, because her mother had always given her two.

Once every three months "the Jersey girls," dressed in black broadcloth, with black, fluted
ruffles around their necks, and black-flowered bonnets covering their scanty hair, turned the
corner at Chase's Lane, walked three blocks to the foot of Tilson Street, and rang Abbie Snover's
door-bell.

As Old Chris grew older and less able, Abbie was compelled to close off first one room and
then another; but Old Chris still occupied the back chamber near the upstairs woodroom, and
Abbie still slept in the South bedroom.

Early one October afternoon, Jim East, Almont's express agent and keeper of the general store,
drove his hooded delivery cart up to the front steps of the big house. He trembled with excitement
as he climbed down from the seat.

"Abbie Snover! Ab--bie!" he called. "I got somethin' for you! A package all the way from China!
Just you come an' look!"

Jim East lifted the package out of the delivery cart, carried it up the steps, and set it down
at Abbie's feet.

"Just you look, Abbie! That there crate's made of little fishin' poles, an' what's inside's
all wrapped up in Chinee mats!"

Old Chris came around from the back of the house. Jim East grabbed his arm and pointed at the
bamboo crate:

"Just you put your nose down, Chris, an' smell. Ain't that foreign?"

Abbie brought her scissors. Carefully she removed the red and yellow labels.

"There's American writin' on 'em, too," Jim East hastened to explain, "'cause otherwise how'd
I know who it was for, hey?"

Abbie carried the labels into the parlor and looked for a safe place for them. She saw the
picture-album and put them in it. Then she hurried back to the porch. Old Chris opened one
end of the crate.

"It's a plant," Jim East whispered; "a Chinee plant."

"It's a dwarf orange-tree," Old Chris announced. "See, it says so on that there card."

Abbie carried the little orange-tree into the parlor. Who could have sent it to her? There
was no one she knew, away off there in China!

"You be careful of that bamboo and the wrappings," she warned Old Chris. "I'll make something
decorative-like out of them."

Abbie waited until Jim East drove away in his delivery cart. Then she sat down at the table
in the parlor and opened the album. She found her name on one of the labels--ABBIE SNOVER,
ALMONT, MICHIGAN, U. S. A. It seemed queer to her that her name had come all the way from China.
On the card that said that the plant was a dwarf orange-tree she found the name--Thomas J.
Thorington. Thomas? Tom? Tom Thorington! Why, the last she had heard of Tom had been fifteen
years back. He had gone out West. She had received a picture of him in a uniform, with a gun
on his shoulder. She dimly recollected that he had been a guard at some penitentiary. How long
ago it seemed! He must have become a missionary or something, to be away off in China. And
he had remembered her! She sat for a long time looking at the labels. She wondered if the queer
Chinese letters spelled ABBIE SNOVER, ALMONT, MICHIGAN. She opened the album again and hunted
until she found the picture of Tom Thorington in his guard's uniform. Then she placed the labels
next to the picture, closed the album, and carefully fastened the adjustable clasp.

* * *

Under Abbie's constant attention, the little orange-tree thrived. A tiny green orange appeared.
Day by day she watched it grow, looking forward to the time when it would become large and
yellow. The days grew shorter and colder, but she did not mind; every week the orange grew
larger. After the first snow, she moved the tree into the down-stairs bedroom. She placed it
on a little stand in the South window. The inside blinds, which she had always kept as her
mother liked them best--the lower blinds closed, the top blinds opened a little to let in the
morning light--she now threw wide open so that the tree would get all of the sun. And she kept
a fire in the small sheet-iron stove, for fear that the old, drafty wood furnace might not
send up a steady enough heat through the register. When the nights became severe, she crept
down the narrow, winding stairs, and through the cold, bare halls, to put an extra chunk of
hardwood into the stove. Every morning she swept and dusted the room; the ashes and wood dirt
around the stove gave her something extra to do near the orange-tree. She removed the red and
white coverlet from the bed, and put in its place the fancy patch-quilt with the green birds
and the yellow flowers, to make the room look brighter.

"Abbie Snover loves that orange-tree more'n anything in the world," Old Chris cautioned the
children when they came after cookies, "an' don't you dare touch it, even with your little finger."

The growing orange was as wonderful to the children as it was to Abbie. Instead of taking the
cookies and hurrying home, they stood in front of the tree, their eyes round and big. And one
day, when Abbie went to the clothes-press to get the cookie-pail, Bruce Sanders snipped the
orange from the tree.

The children were unnaturally still when Abbie came out of the clothes-press. They did not
rush forward to get the cookies. Abbie looked quickly at the tree; the pail of cookies dropped
from her hands. She grabbed the two children nearest and shook them until their heads bumped
together. Then she drove them all in front of her to the door and down the path to the gate,
which she slammed shut behind them.

Once outside the gate the children ran, yelling: "Ab-bie Sno-ver, na--aa--ah! Ab-bie Sno-ver,
na--aa--ah!"

Abbie, her hands trembling, her eyes hot, went back into the house. That was what came of letting
them take fruit from the trees and vines in the yard; of giving them cookies every time they
rang her door-bell. Well, there would be no more cookies, and Old Chris should be told never
to let them come into the yard again.

That evening, when the metallic hiccough of the well pump on the kitchen porch told her that
Old Chris was drawing up fresh water for the night, Abbie went out into the kitchen to make
sure that he placed one end of the prop under the knob of the kitchen door and the other end
against the leg of the kitchen table.

"It'll freeze afore mornin'," said Old Chris.

"Yes," Abbie answered.

But she did not get up in the night to put an extra chunk of wood in the stove of the down-stairs
bedroom.

Old Chris stopped shoveling snow to shake his fist at the yelling children.

"Your Mas'll fix you, if you don't stop that screechin'!"

And they answered: "Ab-bie Sno-ver, an' old Chris! Ab-bie Sno-ver, an' old Chris!"

Every day they yelled the two names as they passed the big house. They yelled them on their
way to and from school, and on their way to Giddings's Hill to slide. The older boys took it
up, and yelled it when they saw Abbie and Old Chris on Main Street Saturday mornings. And finally
they rimed it into a couplet,

    "Ab-bie Sno-ver, an' Old Chris--
    We saw Chris an' Ab-bie kiss!"

It was too much. Abbie went to Hugh Perry's mother.

Mrs. Perry defended her young son. "He couldn't have done it," she told Abbie. "He ain't that
kind of a boy, and you can just tell that Old Chris I said so. I guess it must be true, the
way you're fussin' round!"

Mrs. Perry slammed the door in Abbie's face. Then she whipped her young son, and hated Abbie
and Old Chris because they were responsible for it.

"That Abbie Snover came to my house," Mrs. Perry told Mrs. Rowles, "an' said my Hugh had been
a-couplin' her name with Old Chris's in a nasty way. An' I told her--"

"The idea! the idea!" Mrs. Rowles interrupted.

"An' I told her it must be so, an' I guess it is," Mrs. Perry concluded.

Mrs. Rowles called upon Pastor Lucus's wife.

"Abbie Snover an' Old Chris was seen kissin'."

"It's scandalous," Mrs. Lucas told the pastor. "The town shouldn't put up with it a minute
longer. That's what comes of Abbie Snover not coming to church since her Ma died."

On Saturday mornings when Abbie went down-town followed by Old Chris, the women eyed her coldly,
and the faces of the men took on quizzical, humorous expressions. Abbie could not help but
notice it; she was disturbed. The time for "the Jersey girls" to call came around. Every afternoon
Abbie sat in the window and watched for them to turn the corner at Chase's Lane. She brought
out the polished apples which she kept in the clothes-press all ready for some one, but "the
Jersey girls" did not come.

"You haven't heard of anybody being sick at the Jersey house, have you, Chris?"

"Um? Nope!"

"Haven't seen Josie or Em Jersey anywhere lately?"

"Seen 'em at the post-office night afore last."

"H'mp!"

Abbie pushed the kettle to the front of the kitchen stove, poked up the fire, and put in fresh
sticks of wood. When the water boiled she poured it into a blue-lacquered pail with yellow
bands around the rim, carried it up the steep back stairs, and got out fresh stockings.

An hour later Old Chris saw her climbing up Tillson street. He scratched his head and frowned.

Abbie turned the corner at Chase's Lane. The snow, driven by the wind, blinded her. She almost
bumped into Viny Freeman.

"My, Viny! What you doing out on such a day?"

Viny Freeman passed her without answering.

"Seems she didn't see me," Abbie muttered. "What can she be doing away down here on such a
day? Must be something special to bring her out of her lonely old house with her lame side.
My! I almost bumped that hand she's always holding up her pain with. My!"

Abbie turned into the Jersey gate and climbed the icy steps, hanging onto the railing with
both hands. She saw Em Jersey rise from her chair in the parlor and go into the back sitting-room.
Abbie pulled the bell-knob and waited. No one answered. She pulled it again. No answer. She
rapped on the door with her knuckles. Big Mary, the Jersey hired girl, opened the door part way.

"They ain't to home."

"Ain't to home?" exclaimed Abbie. "My land! Didn't I just see Em Jersey through the parlor window?"

"No'm, you never did. They ain't to home."

"Well, I never! And their Ma and mine was cousins! They ain't sick or nothing? Well!"

* * *

The snow melted; the streets ran with water and then froze. Old Chris no longer came into the
parlor in the evening to sit, his hands clasped over his thin stomach, his bald head bent until
his chin rested upon the starched neckband of his shirt.

They ate in silence the meals which Abbie prepared: Old Chris at one end of the long table,
and Abbie at the other end.

In silence they went about their accustomed tasks.

Abbie, tired with a new weariness, sat in her chair beside the marble-topped table. The village
was talking about her; she knew it; she felt it all around her. Well, let them talk!

But one day Almont sent a committee to her. It was composed of one man and three women. Abbie
saw them when they turned in at her gate--Pastor Lucus Lorina Inman, Antha Ewell, and Aunt
Alphie Newberry.

Abbie walked to the center of the parlor and stood there, her hands clenched, her face set.
The door-bell rang; for a moment her body swayed. Then she went into the bay window and drew
the blinds aside. Antha Ewell saw her and jerked Pastor Lucus's arm. Pastor Lucus turned and
caught sight of Abbie; he thought that she had not heard the bell, so he tapped the door panel
with his fingers and nodded his head at her invitingly, as if to say:

"See, we're waiting for you to let us in." Abbie's expression did not change. Pastor Lucus
tapped at the door again, this time hesitantly, and still she looked at them with unseeing
eyes. He tapped a third time, then turned and looked at the three women. Aunt Alphie Newberry
tugged, at his arm, and the committee of four turned about without looking at Abbie, and walked
down the steps.

A few minutes later Abbie heard the door between the parlor and dining-room open. Old Chris
came in. For a moment or two neither spoke. Old Chris fingered his cap.

"Abbie, I lived here forty-two years. I was here when you was born. I carried you around in
my arms a little bit of thing an' made you laugh."

Abbie did not turn away from the window.

"I know what they came for," Old Chris continued. "Your Ma--your Ma, she'd never thought I'd
have to go away from here."

Abbie could not answer him.

"I don't know who'll keep the furnace a-goin' when I'm gone, nor fill the up-stairs woodroom."

Still no answer.

"I'm old now--I'll go to Owen Frazer's farm--down to Mile Corners. He'll have some work I can do."

Old Chris stroked his baggy cheeks with trembling hands. Abbie still looked out of the window.

"I'm a-goin' down to the post-office now," said Old Chris, as he turned and went to the door.
"Be there anything you want?"

Abbie shook her head; she could not find words. As Old Chris went down the hall she heard him
mumble, "I don't know what she'll do when I'm gone."

That night Abbie sat in the parlor window longer than usual. It was a white night; wet snow
had been falling heavily all day. Some time between eight and nine o'clock she arose from her
chair and went into the long, narrow dining-room. The pat-pat of her slippered feet aroused
Old Chris from his nodding over the Farm Herald. Finding that the hot air was not coming up
strong through the register over which he sat, the old man slowly pushed his wool-socked feet
into felt-lined overshoes and tramped down into the cellar, picking up the kitchen lamp as
he went. Abbie followed as far as the kitchen. The pungent dry-wood smell that came up the
stairs when Old Chris swung open the door of the wood cellar made her sniff. She heard the
sounds as he loaded the wheelbarrow with the sticks of quartered hardwood; the noise of the
wheel bumping over the loose boards as he pushed his load into the furnace-room. She went back
into the parlor and stood over the register. Hollow sounds came up through the pipe as Old
Chris leveled the ashes in the fire-box and threw in the fresh sticks.

When Old Chris came up from the cellar and went out onto the porch to draw up fresh water for
the night, Abbie went back into the kitchen.

"It's snowin' hard out," said Old Chris.

"Yes," Abbie answered.

She led the way back into the dining-room. Old Chris placed the kitchen lamp on the stand under
the fruit picture and waited. For a few moments they stood in the blast of hot air rising from
the register. Then Abbie took up the larger of the two lamps. Through the bare, high-ceilinged
rooms she went, opening and closing the heavy doors; on through the cold, empty hall, up the
stairs, into the South bedroom. While she was closing the blinds she heard Old Chris stumble
up the back stairs and into the chamber he had occupied ever since she could remember.

The night after Old Chris had gone, Abbie took the brass dinner-bell from the pantry shelf
and set it on the chair beside her bed. Over the back of the chair she placed her heavy, rabbit-lined
coat; it would be handy if any one disturbed her. Once or twice when she heard sounds, she
put out her hand and touched the bell; but the sounds did not recur. The next night she tried
sleeping in the down-stairs bedroom. The blue-and-gray carpet, the blue fixings on the bureau
and commode, the blue bands around the wash-bowl and pitcher--all faded and old-looking--reminded
her of her mother and father, and would not let her sleep. On the wall in front of her was
a picture in a black frame of a rowboat filled with people. It was called "From Shore to Shore."
Trying not to see it, her eyes were caught by a black-and-white print in a gilt frame, called
"The First Steps." How she had loved the picture when she was a little girl; her mother had
explained it to her many times--the bird teaching its little ones to fly; the big, shaggy dog
encouraging its waddling puppies; the mother coaxing her baby to walk alone.

At midnight Abbie got out of bed, picked up the dinner-bell by the clapper, and went back up-stairs
to the South bedroom.

The tall, bare walls of the big house, the high ceilings with their centerpieces of plaster
fruits and flowers, the cold whiteness, closed her in. Having no one to talk to, she talked
to herself: "It's snowin' hard out----why! that was what Old Chris said the night before he
went away." She began to be troubled by a queer, detached feeling; she knew that she had mislaid
something, but just what she could not remember. Forebodings came to her, distressing, disquieting.
There would never be any one for her to speak to--never! The big house grew terrible; the rooms
echoed her steps. She would have given everything for a little house of two or three small,
low-ceilinged rooms close to the sidewalk on a street where people passed up and down.

A night came when Abbie forgot that Old Chris had gone away. She had been sitting in her chair
beside the marble-topped table, staring out into the night. All day the wind had blown; snow
was piled high around the porch. Her thoughts had got back to her childhood. Somehow they had
centered around the old grandfather who, years before, had sat in the same window. She saw
him in his chair; heard his raspy old voice, "I married Jane sixty-eight an' a half years ago,
an' a half year in a man's life is something, I'll bet you. An' I buried her thirty years ago,
an' that's a long time, too. We never tore each other's shirts. Jane wanted to live a quiet
life. She wanted one child, an' she was tenacious 'bout that. She never wanted any more, an'
she had three, an' one of 'em was your Ma. She never wanted to be seen out with a baby in her
arms, Jane didn't. I made her get bundled up once or twice, an' I hitched up the horse an'
took her ridin' in my phaeton that cost two hundred dollars.--You'll be in your dotage some
day, Abbie. I've been in my dotage for years now.--Oh, I altered my life to fit Jane's. I expected
I had a wife to go out and see the neighbors with. By gosh! we never went across the street--I'll
take on goodness some day, Abbie. By goll! that's all I'm good for to take on now.--Oh, it
beat all what a boy I was. I and Mother broke our first team of oxen. When you get children,
Abbie, let them raise themselves up. They'll do better at it than a poor father or mother can.
I had the finest horses and the best phaeton for miles around, but you never saw a girl a-ridin'
by the side of me.--Some men can't work alone, Abbie. They got to have the women around or
they quit. Don't you get that kind of a man, Abbie.--Oh, she was renowned was my old mare,
Kit. You never got to the end of her. She lived to be more'n thirty year, an' she raised fourteen
colts. She was a darned good little thing she was. I got her for a big black mare that weighed
fourteen hundred pound, an' I made 'em give me ten dollars, too, an' I got her colt with her--"

Abbie suddenly realized that she was shivering; that her feet were cold; that it was long after
nine o'clock. Old Chris must have fallen asleep in his chair. She went to the dining-room door
and opened it; the dining-room was dark. Why?--why, of course! Old Chris had been gone for
more than three weeks. She took hold of the door to steady herself; her hands shook. How could
she have forgotten? Was she going crazy? Would the loneliness come to that?

Abbie went to bed. All night she lay awake, thinking. The thoughts came of themselves. What
the town had to say didn't matter after all; the town had paid her no attention for years;
it was paying her no attention now. Why, then, should she live without any one to speak to?
"I'll go and get Old Chris, that's what I'll do. I won't live here alone any longer." And with
this decision she went to sleep.

In the morning when Abbie opened the kitchen door and stepped out onto the porch, frost lay
thick upon the well pump.

She drew her shawl close around her and took hold of the pump-handle with her mittened hands.
When she had filled the pail she went back into the kitchen. The sound of the wind made her
shiver. To walk all the way to Mile Corners on such a day required green tea, so Abbie drank
three cupfuls. Then, as on the day when she went out to call upon "the Jersey girls," she carried
hot water up-stairs and got out fresh stockings.

About nine o'clock three women of Pastor Lucus's church, standing on the front steps of Aunt
Alphie Newberry's house, saw Abbie struggling through a drift.

"Why, there's Abbie Snover," said Jennie Chipman.

"She's turnin' down the road to Mile Corners," added Judie Wing.

Aunt Alphie Newberry opened the door to the three women:

"Whatever's the matter to be bringin' you callin' so early?"

"Ain't you heard yet?"

"We come to tell you."

"My! my! my! What can have happened?" Aunt Alphie exclaimed.

"Old Chris died last night--"

"Just after bein' middlin' sick for a day an'--"

"An' they say," Judie Wing interrupted, "that it was 'cause Abbie Snover turned him out."

* * *

Abbie reached the end of the town sidewalk. Lifting her skirts high, she waded through the
deep snow to the rough-rutted track left by the farmers' sleighs. Every little while she had
to step off the road into the deep snow to let a bob-sled loaded high with hay or straw pass
on its way into town. Some of the farmers recognized her; they spoke to her with kindly voices,
but she made no answer. Walking was hard; Owen Frazer's farm was over the hill; there was a
steep climb ahead of her. And besides, Owen Frazer's house was no place for Old Chris. No one
knew anything about Owen Frazer and that woman of his; they hadn't been born in Almont. How
could she have let Old Chris go down there, anyway?

"Whoa up! Hey! Better climb in, Abbie, an' ride with me. This ain't no day for walkin'. Get
up here on the seat. I'll come down an' help you."

Abbie looked up at Undertaker Hopkins. In the box of his funeral wagon was a black coffin with
a sprinkling of snow on its top. Abbie shook her head, but did not speak.

"Guess I shouldn't have asked you," Undertaker Hopkins apologized. "Sorry! Get along as fast
as you can, Abbie. It's gettin' mighty, all-fired cold. It'll be a little sheltered when you
get over the hill."

Undertaker Hopkins drove on. Abbie tried to keep her feet in the fresh track made by the runners.
She reached the top of the hill. Owen Frazer's red barn stood up above the snow. Undertaker
Hopkins and his funeral wagon had disappeared.

"He must have turned down the Mill Road," Abbie muttered.

She reached the gate in front of the low, one-story farmhouse. A shepherd dog barked as she
went up the path. She rapped at the front door. A woman appeared at the window and pointed
to the side of the house. Abbie's face expressed surprise and resentment. She backed down the
steps and made her way to the back door. The woman, Owen Frazer's wife, let her into the kitchen.

"Owen! Here be Abbie Snover!"

Owen Frazer came in from the front of the house.

"Good day! Didn't expect you here. Pretty cold out, ain't it? Have a chair."

Abbie did not realize how numb the cold had made her body until she tried to sit down.

"Maggie, give her a cup of that hot tea," Owen Frazer continued. "She's been almost froze,
an' I guess she'll have a cup of tea. Hey! Miss Snover?"

"I want to talk to Old Chris."

"Talk to Old Chris! Talk to Old Chris, you want to?"

Owen Frazer looked at his wife. Abbie Snover didn't know, yet she had walked all the way to
Mile Corners in the cold. He couldn't understand it.

"What'd you come for, anyhow, Abbie Snover?"

"Now, Owen, you wait!" Owen Frazer's wife turned to Abbie:

"Got lonesome, did you, all by yourself in that big barn of a house?"

"I want to talk to Old Chris," Abbie repeated.

"Was you so fond of him, then?"

Abbie made no answer. Owen Frazer went over to the sink and looked out of the window at the
bed-tick smoldering on the rubbish heap. Owen Frazer's wife pushed open the door of the sitting-room,
then stood back and turned to Abbie:

"You may be fine old family, Abbie Snover, but we're better. You turned Old Chris out, an'
now you want to talk to him. All right, talk to him if you want to. He's in the parlor. Go
on in now. Talk to him if you want to--go on in!"

The animosity in Mrs. Frazer's voice shook Abbie; she was disturbed; doubt came to her for
the first time. As she went through the sitting-room, fear slowed her steps. Perhaps they had
turned Old Chris away from her and she would have to go back alone, to live alone, for all
the remaining years of her life, in that big house.

BOYS WILL BE BOYS[6]

[Note 6: Copyright, 1917, by The Curtis Publishing Company. I s'pose they've got it all cracked
out of the shell and et up by now--the cocoanut, I mean.

"I object!" exclaimed Mr. Sublette briskly.

LAUGHTER[7]

[Note 7: Copyright, 1917, by Harper and Brothers. Copyright, 1918, by Charles Caldwell Dobie.]

BY CHARLES CALDWELL DOBIE

From Harper's Magazine

As Suvaroff neared his lodgings, he began to wonder whether the Italian who had the room next
him would continue to grind out tunes all night upon his accordion. The thought made Suvaroff
shudder. What in Heaven's name possessed people to grind out tunes, Suvaroff found himself
inquiring, unless one earned one's living that way? Certainly this weather-beaten Italian was
no musician; he smelled too strongly of fish for any one to mistake his occupation. He tortured
melody from choice, blandly, for the pure enjoyment of the thing. With Suvaroff it was different;
if he did not play, he did not eat.

Suvaroff's head had ached all day. The café where he scraped his violin from early afternoon
until midnight had never seemed so stuffy, so tawdry, so impossible! All day he had sat and
played and played, while people ate and chattered and danced. No, that did not describe what
people did; they gorged and shrieked and gyrated like decapitated fowls, accomplishing everything
with a furious energy, primitive, abandoned, disgusting. He wondered if he would ever again
see people eat quietly and simply, like normal human beings.

If only the Italian would go away, or decide to sleep, or die! Yes, Suvaroff would have been
glad to have found his neighbor quite dead--anything to still that terrible accordion, which
had been pumping out tunes for over a week at all hours of the day and night! The music did
not have the virtue of an attempt at gaiety; instead it droned out prolonged wails, melancholy
and indescribably discordant.

The night was damp, a typical San Francisco midsummer night. A drizzling fog had swept in from
the ocean and fell refreshingly on the gray city. But the keenness of the air irritated Suvaroff's
headache instead of soothing it; he felt the wind upon his temples as one feels the cool cut
of a knife. In short, everything irritated Suvaroff--his profession, the café where he fiddled,
the strident streets of the city, the evening mist, the Hôtel des Alpes Maritimes, where he
lodged, and the Italian fisherman and his doleful accordion.

Turning off Kearny Street into Broadway, he had half a notion not to go home, but his dissatisfaction
was so inclusive that home seemed, at once, quite as good and as hopeless a place to go as
any other. So he pushed open the door of his lodging-house and stamped rather heavily up-stairs.

Although midnight, the first sound which greeted Suvaroff was the wheezing of the Italian's
accordion.

"Now," muttered Suvaroff, "I shall suffer in silence no longer. Nobody in this city, much less
in these wretched lodgings, has an ear for anything but the clink of money and the shrill laughter
of women. If fifty men were to file saws in front of the entrance of any one of these rooms,
there would be not the slightest concern. Every one would go on sleeping as if they had nothing
more weighty on their conscience than the theft of a kiss from a pretty girl."

He tossed his hat on the bed and made for the Italian's door. He did not wait to knock, but
broke in noisily. The accordion stopped with a prolonged wail; its owner rose, visibly frightened.

"Ah!" cried the Italian, "it is you! I am glad of that. See, I have not left the house for
three days."

There was a genial simplicity about the man; Suvaroff felt overcome with confusion. "What is
the matter? Are you ill?" he stammered, closing the door.

"No. I am afraid to go out. There is somebody waiting for me. Tell me, did you see a cripple
standing on the corner, near Bollo's Wine Shop, as you came in?"

Suvaroff reflected. "Well, not a cripple, exactly. But I saw a hunchback with--with--"

"Yes! yes!" cried the other, excitedly. "A hunchback with a handsome face! That is he! I am
afraid of him. For three days he has sat there, waiting!"

"For you? How absurd! Why should any one do such a ridiculous thing?"

The Italian slipped his hands from the accordion and laid it aside. "Nobody but one who is
mad would do it, but he is mad. There is no doubt about that!"

Suvaroff began to feel irritated. "What are you talking about? Have you lost your senses? If
he is waiting for you, why do you not go out and send him away? Go out and pay him what you
owe him."

The Italian rose and began to shudder. "I owe him nothing. He is waiting for me--to kill me!"

"Nonsense!" cried Suvaroff. "What is his reason?"

"He is waiting to kill me because I laughed at him."

"That is ridiculous!" said Suvaroff.

"Nevertheless, it is true," replied the Italian. "He kills every one who laughs at him. Three
days ago I laughed at him. But I ran away. He followed me. He does not know where I lodge,
but he has wit enough to understand that if he waits long enough he will find me out. In Heaven's
name, my friend, can you not help me? See, I am a simple soul. I cannot think quickly. I have
prayed to the Virgin, but it is no use. Tell me, what can I do to escape?"

"Why do you not see a policeman?"

The Italian let his hands fall hopelessly. "A policeman? What good would that do? Even you
do not believe me!"

A chill seized Suvaroff. He began to shake, and in the next instant a fever burned his cheeks.
His head as full of little darting pains. He turned away from the Italian, impatiently. "You
must be a pretty sort of man to let a little hunchback frighten you! Good night."

And with that Suvaroff went out, slamming the door.

When Suvaroff got to his room he felt dizzy. He threw himself on the bed and lay for some time
in a stupor. When he came to his senses again the first sound to greet him was the wail of
his neighbor's accordion.

"What a fool I am!" he muttered. "Here I go bursting into this Italian's room for the purpose
of asking him to quit his abominable noise, and I listen like a dumb sheep to his bleatings,
and so forget my errand!"

The noise continued, grew more insistent, became unbearable. Suvaroff covered his ears with
a comforter. His head was throbbing so violently that even the ticking of a clock upon the
table by his bed cut his senses like a two-edged sword. He rose, stumbling about with a feeling
of indescribable weakness. What was the matter? Why did he feel so ill? His eyes burned, his
legs seemed weighted, his throat was so dry that there was no comfort when he swallowed. All
this he could have stood if it had not been for the fiendish noise which, he began to feel,
was being played merely for his torture.

He put on his hat and stumbled down-stairs, out into the night. Crossing the street, he went
at once to Bollo's Wine Shop. The hunchback was sitting on a garbage-can, almost at the entrance.
At the sight of this misshapen figure, the irritating memory of the Italian and his impossible
music recurred to Suvaroff. A sudden sinister cruelty came over him; he felt a wanton ruthlessness
that the sight of ugliness sometimes engenders in natures sensitive to beauty. He went up to
the hunchback and looked searchingly into the man's face. It was a strangely handsome face,
and its incongruity struck Suvaroff. Had Nature been weary, or merely in a satirical mood,
when she fashioned such a thing of horror?--for Suvaroff found that the handsome face seemed
even more horrible than the twisted body, so sharp and violent was the contrast.

The hunchback returned Suvaroff's stare with almost insulting indifference, but there was something
in the look that quickened the beating of Suvaroff's heart.

"You are waiting here," began Suvaroff, "for an Italian who lodges across the street. Would
you like me to tell you where he may be found?"

The hunchback shrugged. "It does not matter in the slightest, one way or another. If you tell
me where he lodges, the inevitable will happen more quickly than if I sat and waited for the
rat to come out of his hole. Waiting has its own peculiar interest. If you have ever waited,
as I wait now, you know the joy that a cat feels--expectation is two-thirds of any game."

Suvaroff shuddered. He had an impulse to walk away, but the eyes of the other burned with a
strange fascination.

"Nevertheless," said Suvaroff, "I shall tell--"

The hunchback waved him to silence. "Do whatever you wish, my friend, but remember, if you
do tell me this thing, you and I will be forever bound by a tie that it will be impossible
to break. With me it does not matter, but you are a young man, and all your life you will drag
a secret about like a dead thing chained to your wrist. I am Flavio Minetti, and I kill every
one who laughs at me! This Italian of whom you speak has laughed at me. I may wait a week--a
month. It will be the same. No one has yet escaped me."

An exquisite fear began to move Suvaroff. "Nevertheless," he repeated again, "I shall tell
you where he lodges. You will find him upon the third landing of the Hôtel des Alpes Maritimes.
There are no numbers on the doors, but it will be impossible for you to mistake his room. All
day and night he sits playing an accordion."

Flavio Minetti took a cigarette from his pocket. "Remember, my young friend, I gave you fair
warning."

"I shall not forget," replied Suvaroff.

* * *

Suvaroff climbed back to his room. He sat upon his bed holding his head in his hands. The sound
of the accordion seemed gruesome now.

Presently he heard a step on the landing. His heart stood still. Sounds drifted down the passageway.
The noise was not heavy and clattering, but it had a pattering quality, like a bird upon a
roof. Above the wailing of the music, Suvaroff heard a door opened--slowly, cautiously. There
followed a moment of silence; Suvaroff was frightened. But almost immediately the playing began
again.

"Now," thought Suvaroff, "why is the Italian not frightened? The door has been opened and he
goes on playing, undisturbed.... It must be that he is sitting with his back to the door. If
this is so, God help him!... Well, why need I worry? What is it to me? It is not my fault if
a fool like that sits with his door unlocked and his face turned from the face of danger."

And, curiously, Suvaroff's thoughts wandered to other things, and a picture of his native country
flashed over him--Little Russia in the languid embrace of summer--green and blue and golden.
The soft notes of the balalaika at twilight came to him, and the dim shapes of dancing peasants,
whirling like aspen-leaves in a fresh breeze. He remembered the noonday laughter of skylarks;
the pear-trees bending patiently beneath their harvest; the placid river winding its willow-hedged
way, cutting the plain like a thin silver knife.

Now, suddenly, it came upon him that the music in the next room had stopped. He waited. There
was not a sound!... After a time the door banged sharply. The pattering began again, and died
away. But still there was no music!...

Suvaroff rose and began to strip off his clothes. His teeth were chattering. "Well, at last,"
he muttered, "I shall have some peace!" He threw himself on the bed, drawing the coverings
up over his head.... Presently a thud shook the house. "He has slipped from his seat," said
Suvaroff aloud. "It is all over!" And he drew the bedclothes higher and went to sleep.

* * *

Next morning, Suvaroff felt better. To be sure, he was weak, but he rose and dressed.

"What strange dreams people have when they are in a fever!" he exclaimed, as he put on his
hat. Nevertheless, as he left the house, he did not so much as glance at the Italian's door.

It was a pleasant morning, the mist had lifted and the sky was a freshly washed blue. Suvaroff
walked down Kearny Street, and past Portsmouth Square. At this hour the little park was cleared
of its human wreckage, and dowdy sparrows hopped unafraid upon the deserted benches. A Chinese
woman and her child romped upon the green; a weather-beaten peddler stooped to the fountain
and drank; the three poplar-trees about the Stevenson monument trembled to silver in the frank
sunshine. Suvaroff could not remember when the city had appeared so fresh and innocent. It
seemed to him as if the gray, cold drizzle of the night had washed away even the sins of the
wine-red town. But an indefinite disquiet rippled the surface of his content. His peace was
filled with a vague suggestion of sinister things to follow, like the dead calm of this very
morning, which so skilfully bound up the night wind in its cool, placid air. He would have
liked to linger a moment in the park, but he passed quickly by and went into a little chop-house
for his morning meal.

As he dawdled over his cup of muddy coffee he had a curious sense that his mind was intent
on keeping at bay some half-formulated fear. He felt pursued, as by an indistinct dream. Yet
he was cunning enough to pretend that this something was too illusive to capture outright,
so he turned his thoughts to all manner of remote things. But there are times when it is almost
as difficult to deceive oneself as to cheat others. In the midst of his thoughts he suddenly
realized that under the stimulating influence of a second cup of coffee he was feeling quite
himself again.

"That is because I got such a good night's sleep," he muttered. "For over a week this Italian
and his wretched accordion--" He halted his thoughts abruptly. "What am I thinking about?"
he demanded. Then he rose, paid his bill, and departed.

He turned back to his lodgings. At Bollo's Wine Shop he hesitated. A knot of people stood at
the entrance of the Hôtel des Alpes Maritimes, and a curious wagon was drawn up to the curb.

He stopped a child. "What is the trouble?" he inquired.

The girl raised a pair of mournful eyes to him. "A man has been killed!" she answered.

Suvaroff turned quickly and walked in another direction. He went to the café where he fiddled.
At this hour it was like an empty cavern. A smell of stale beer and tobacco smoke pervaded
the imprisoned air. He sat down upon the deserted platform and pretended to practise. He played
erratically, feverishly. The waiters, moving about their morning preparations with an almost
uncanny quiet, listened attentively. Finally one of them stopped before him.

"What has come over you, Suvaroff?" questioned the man. "You are making our flesh creep!"

"Oh, pardon me!" cried Suvaroff. "I shall not trouble you further!"

And with that he packed up his violin and left. He did not go back to the café, even at the
appointed hour. Instead, he wandered aimlessly about. All day he tramped the streets. He listened
to street-fakirs, peered into shop-windows, threw himself upon the grass of the public squares
and stared up at the blue sky. He had very little personal consciousness; he seemed to have
lost track of himself. He had an absurd feeling that he had come away from somewhere and left
behind a vital part of his being.

"Suvaroff! Suvaroff!" he would repeat over and over to himself, as if trying to recall the
memory of some one whose precise outline had escaped him.

He caught a glimpse of his figure in the mirror of a shop-window. He went closer, staring for
some moments at the face opposite him. There followed an infinitesimal fraction of time when
his spirit deserted him as completely as if he were dead. When he recovered himself he had
a sense that he was staring at the reflection of a stranger. He moved away, puzzled. Was he
going mad? Then, suddenly, everything grew quite clear. He remembered the Italian, the accordion,
the hunchback. Characters, circumstances, sequences--all stood out as sharply as the sky-line
of a city in the glow of sunset.... He put his fingers to his pulse. Everything seemed normal;
his skin was moist and cool. Yet last night he had been very ill. That was it! Last night he
had been ill!

"What strange dreams people have when they are in a fever!" he exclaimed for the second time
that day. He decided to go home. "I wonder, though," thought he, "whether the Italian is still
playing that awful instrument?" Curiously enough, the idea did not disturb him in the least.
"I shall teach him a Russian tune or two!" he decided, cheerfully. "Then, maybe his playing
will be endurable."

When he came again to his lodgings he was surprised to find a knot of curious people on the
opposite side of the street, and another before the entrance. He went up the stairs. His landlady
came to meet him.

"Mr. Suvaroff," she began at once, "have you not heard what has happened? The man in the next
room to you was found this morning--dead!"

He did not pretend to be surprised. "Well," he announced, brutally, "at least we shall have
no more of dreadful music! How did he kill himself?"

The woman gave way to his advance with a movement of flattering confusion. "The knife was in
his side," she answered. "In his side--toward the back."

"Ah, then he was murdered!"

"Yes."

He was mounting the second flight of stairs when his landlady again halted him. "Mr. Suvaroff,"
she ventured, "I hope you will not be angry! But his mother came early this morning. All day
she has sat in your room, weeping. I cannot persuade her to go away. What am I to do?"

Suvaroff glared at her for a moment. "It is nothing!" he announced, as he passed on, shrugging.

The door of his room was open; he went in. A gnarled old woman sat on the edge of the bed;
a female consoler was on either side. At the sight of Suvaroff the mourner rose and stood trembling
before him, rolling a gaudy handkerchief into a moist bundle.

"My good woman," said Suvaroff, kindly, "do not stand; sit down."

"Kind gentleman!" the old woman began. "Kind gentleman--"

She got no further because of her tears. The other women rose and sat her down again. She began
to moan. Suvaroff, awkward and disturbed, stood as men do in such situations.

Finally the old woman found her voice. "Kind gentleman," she said, "I am a poor old woman,
and my son--Ah! I was washing his socks when they came after me.... You see what has happened!
He was a good son. Once a week he came to me and brought me five dollars. Now--What am I to
do, my kind gentleman?"

Suvaroff said nothing.

She swayed back and forth, and spoke again. "Only last week he said: 'There is a man who lodges
next me who plays music.' Yes, my son was fond of you because of that. He said: 'I have seen
him only once. He plays music all day and night, so that he may have money enough to live on.
When I hear him coming up the stairs I take down my accordion and begin to play. All day and
night he plays for others. So I think, Now it will be nice to give him some pleasure. So I
take down my accordion and play for him!'... Yes, yes! He was like that all his life. He was
a good son. Now what am I to do?"

A shudder passed over Suvaroff. There was a soft tap upon the door. The three women and Suvaroff
looked up. Flavio Minetti stood in the doorway.

The three women gave the hunchback swift, inclusive glances, such as women always use when
they measure a newcomer, and speedily dropped their eyes. Suvaroff stared silently at the warped
figure. Minetti leaned against the door; his smile was at once both cruel and curiously touching.
At length Minetti spoke. The sound of his voice provoked a sort of terror in the breast of
Suvaroff.

"I have just heard," he said, benevolently, "from the proprietor of the wine-shop across the
way, that your neighbor has been murdered. The landlady tells me that his mother is here."

The old woman roused herself. "Yes--you can see for yourself that I am here. I am a poor old
woman, and my son--Ah! I was washing his socks when--"

"Yes, yes!" interrupted the hunchback, advancing into the room. "You are a poor old woman!
Let me give you some money in all charity."

He threw gold into her lap. She began to tremble. Suvaroff saw her hands greedily close over
the coins, and the sight sickened him.

"Why did you come?" Suvaroff demanded of Minetti. "Go away! You are not wanted here!"

The three women rose. The old woman began to mumble a blessing. She even put up her hand in
the fashion of bestowing a benediction. Suvaroff fancied that he saw Minetti wince.

"He was a good son," the old woman began to mutter they led her out. At the door she looked
back. Suvaroff turned away. "Once a week he came to me and brought me five dollars," she said,
quite calmly. "He was a good son. He even played his music to give pleasure to others. Yes,
yes! He was like that all his life...."

When the women were gone, Suvaroff felt the hunchback's hand upon his. Suvaroff turned a face
of dry-eyed hopelessness toward his tormentor.

"Did you not sleep peacefully last night, my friend?" Minetti inquired, mockingly.

"After the thud I knew nothing," replied Suvaroff.

"The thud?"

"He fell from his chair."

"Of course. That was to be expected. Just so."

"You see for yourself what you have done? Fancy, this man has a mother!"

"See, it is just as I said. Already you are dragging this dead thing about, chained to your
wrist. Come, forget it. I should have killed him, anyway."

"That is not the point. The point is--My God! Tell me, in what fashion do these people laugh
at you? Tell me how it is done."

"Laughter cannot be taught, my friend."

"Then Heaven help me! for I should like to laugh at you. If I could but laugh at you, all would
be over."

"Ah!" said the hunchback. "I see."

* * *

At the end of the week Minetti came to Suvaroff one evening and said, not unkindly: "Why don't
you leave? You are killing yourself. Go away--miles away. It would have happened, anyway."

Suvaroff was lying upon his bed. His face was turned toward the wall. He did not trouble to
look at Minetti.

"I cannot leave. You know that as well as I do. When I am absent from this room I am in a fever
until I get back to it again. I lie here and close my eyes and think.... Whenever a thud shakes
the house I leap up, trembling. I have not worked for five days. They have given up sending
for me from the café. Yesterday his mother came and sat with me. She drove me mad. But I sat
and listened to her. 'Yes, he was a good son!' She repeats this by the hour, and rolls and
unrolls her handkerchief.... It is bad enough in the daytime. But at night--God! If only the
music would play again! I cannot endure such silence."

He buried his face in the pillow. Minetti shrugged and left.

In about an hour Suvaroff rose and went out. He found a squalid wine-shop in the quarter just
below the Barbary Coast. He went in and sat alone at a table. The floors had not been freshly
sanded for weeks; a dank mildew covered the green wall-paper. He called for brandy, and a fat,
greasy-haired man placed a bottle of villainous stuff before him. Suvaroff poured out a drink
and swallowed it greedily. He drank another and another. The room began to fill. The lights
were dim, and the arrival and departure of patrons threw an endless procession of grotesque
silhouettes upon the walls. Suvaroff was fascinated by these dancing shadows. They seemed familiar
and friendly. He sat sipping his brandy, now, with a quieter, more leisurely air. The shadows
were indescribably fascinating; they were so horrible and amusing! He began to wonder whether
their antics would move him to laughter if he sat and drank long enough. He had a feeling that
laughter and sleep went hand in hand. If he could but laugh again he was quite sure that he
would fall asleep. But he discovered a truth while he sat there. Amusement and laughter were
often strangers. He had known this all his life, of course, but he had never thought of it.
Once, when he was a child, an old man had fallen in the road before him, in a fit. Suvaroff
had stood rooted to the spot with amusement, but he had not laughed. Yet the man had gone through
the contortions of a clown.... Well, then he was not to be moved to laughter, after all. He
wearily put the cork back in the bottle of brandy. The fat bartender came forward. Suvaroff
paid him and departed.

He went to the wine-shop the next night--and the next. He began to have a hope that if he persisted
he would discover a shadow grotesque enough to make him laugh. He sat for hours, drinking abominable
brandy. The patrons of the shop did not interest him. They were squalid, dirty, uninteresting.
But their shadows were things of wonder. How was it possible for such drab people to have even
interesting shadows? And why were these shadows so familiar? Suvaroff recognized each in turn,
as if it were an old friend that he remembered but could not name. After the second night he
came to a definite conclusion.

"They are not old friends at all," he said to himself. "They are not even the shadows of these
people who come here. They are merely the silhouettes of my own thoughts.... If I could but
draw my thoughts, they would be as black and as fantastic."

But at another time he dismissed this theory.

"No," he muttered, "they are not the shadows of my thoughts at all. They are the souls of these
men. They are the twisted, dark, horrible souls of these men, that cannot crawl out except
at nightfall! They are the souls of these men seeking to escape, like dogs chained to their
kennels!... I wonder if the Italian had such a soul?..."

He rose suddenly. "I am wasting my time here," he said, almost aloud. "One may learn to laugh
at a shadow. One may even learn to laugh at the picture of one's thoughts. But to laugh at
a soul--No! A man's soul is too dreadful a thing to laugh at." He staggered out into the night.

On his way home he went into a pawn-shop and bought a pistol. He was in a fever to get back
to his lodgings. He found Minetti waiting for him. He tried to conceal the pistol, but he knew
that Minetti had seen it. Minetti was as pleasant as one could imagine. He told the most droll
stories of his life in London. It appeared that he had lived there in a hotbed of exiled radicals;
but he, himself, seemed to have no convictions. Everything he described was touched with a
certain ironic humor. When he rose to go he said, quite simply:

"How are things? Do you sleep nights now?"

"No. I never expect to sleep again."

Minetti made no comment. "I see you have bought a pistol," he observed.

"Yes," replied Suvaroff.

"You have wasted your money, my young friend," declared the hunchback. "You will never use it."

With that Minetti left the room. Suvaroff laid the pistol on the table and threw himself upon
the bed. He lay there without moving until morning.... Toward six o'clock he rose. He went
over to the table and deliberately put the pistol to his temple. The coldness of the muzzle
sent a tremor through him.... He put down the weapon in disgust.

* * *

Suvaroff stayed away from the wine-shop for two nights, but finally the memory of its fascinating
shadows lured him back. The fat bartender saw him enter, and came forward with a bottle of
brandy. Suvaroff smiled grimly and said nothing. He turned his back upon the company and began
to watch the shadows enter and disappear. To-night the puppets seemed more whimsical than grotesque,
and once he nearly laughed. A shadow with an enormous nose appeared; and a fly, as big as a
bumblebee, lit upon the nose and sat rubbing its legs together in insolent content. A hand,
upraised, struck at the fly. The nose disappeared as if completely annihilated by the blow,
while the fly hovered safely aloof. Feeling encouraged, Suvaroff took another drink. But the
more he drank the less genial were the shadows, and by midnight they all had become as sinister
and terrible as ever.

On the way home to his room Suvaroff suddenly remembered that he had a friend who was a druggist.

"Perhaps he can give me something to make me sleep," Suvaroff muttered.

But the drug-store was closed. Suvaroff climbed wearily up the stairs of the Hôtel des Alpes
Maritimes. Minetti was sitting on the steps near the third landing.

"I was preparing to go home," said the hunchback. "What kept you so late?"

"I went around another way," answered Suvaroff. "I thought I might get something from a druggist
friend to help me sleep."

They stood before the door of Suvaroff's room. Suvaroff opened the door and they went in.

"Sleeping-powders are dangerous," observed Minetti, throwing his hat upon the bed.

"So I fancied," replied Suvaroff, dryly.

"Where do you spend your nights?" Minetti demanded suddenly.

Suvaroff sat down. "Watching shadows in a wine-shop."

"Ah--a puppet show!"

"No, not exactly. I will explain.... No; come to think of it, there is no explanation. But
it is extremely amusing. To-night, for instance, I nearly laughed.... Have you ever watched
shadows upon a wall? Really, they are diverting beyond belief."

"Yes. I have watched them often. They are more real to me than actual people, because they
are uglier. Beauty is a lie!"

A note of dreadful conviction crept into the hunchback's voice. Suvaroff looked at him intently,
and said, quite simply:

"What a bitter truth you are, my friend!"

Minetti stared at Suvaroff, and he rose. "Perhaps I shall see you at your puppet show some
evening," he said. And, without waiting for a reply, he left the room.

Suvaroff lay again all night upon his bed staring in a mute agony at the ceiling. Once or twice
he fancied he heard the sounds of music from the next room. His heart leaped joyfully. But
almost instantly his hopes sank back, like spent swimmers in a relentless sea. It seemed as
if his brain were thirsting. He was in a pitiless desert of white-heated thought, and there
was not a cloud of oblivion upon the horizon of his despair. Remembrance flamed like a molten
sun, greedily withering every green, refreshing thing in its path. How long before this dreadful
memory would consume him utterly?

"If I could only laugh!" he cried in his agony. "If I could only laugh!"

* * *

All next day Suvaroff was in a fever; not a physical fever, but a mental fever that burned
with devastating insistence. He could not lie still upon his bed, so he rose and stumbled about
the city's streets. But nothing diverted him. Before his eyes a sheet of fire burned, and a
blinding light seemed to shut out everything else from his vision. Even his thoughts crackled
like dry faggots in a flame.

"When evening comes," he said, "a breeze will spring up and I shall have some relief." But
almost at once he thought: "A breeze will do no good. It will only make matters worse! I have
heard that nothing puts out a fire so quickly as a shower. Let me see--It is now the middle
of August.... It does not rain in this part of the world until October. Well, I must wait until
October, then. No; a breeze at evening will do no good. I will go and watch the shadows again.
Shadows are cool affairs if one sits in them, but how...."

And he began to wonder how he could contrive to sit in shadows that fell only on a wall.

How he got to the wine-shop he did not know, but at a late hour he found himself sitting at
his accustomed seat. His bottle of brandy stood before him. To-night the shadows were blacker
than ever, as if the fury of the flames within him were providing these dancing figures with
a brighter background.

"These shadows are not the pictures of my thoughts," he said to himself. "Neither are they
chained souls seeking to escape. They are the smoke from the fire in my head. They are the
black smoke from my brain which is slowly burning away!"

He sat for hours, staring at the wall. The figures came and went, but they ceased to have any
form or meaning. He merely sat and drank, and stared.... All at once a strange shadow appeared.
A shadow? No; a phantom--a dreadful thing! Suvaroff leaned forward. His breath came quickly,
his body trembled in the grip of a convulsion, his hands were clenched. He rose in his seat,
and suddenly--quite suddenly, without warning--he began to laugh.... The shadow halted in its
flight across the wall. Suvaroff circled the room with his gaze. In the center of the wine-shop
stood Flavio Minetti. Suvaroff sat down. He was still shaking with laughter.

Presently Suvaroff was conscious that Minetti had disappeared. The fire in his brain had ceased
to burn. Instead his senses seemed chilled, not disagreeably, but with a certain pleasant numbness.
He glanced about. What was he doing in such a strange, squalid place? And the brandy was abominable!
He called the waiter, paid him what was owing, and left at once.

There was no mist in the air to-night. The sky was clear and a wisp of moon crept on its disdainful
way through the heavens.

"I shall sleep to-night," muttered Suvaroff, as he climbed up to his room upon the third story
of the Hôtel des Alpes Maritimes.

He undressed deliberately. All his former frenzy was gone. Shortly after he had crawled into
bed he heard a step on the landing. Then, as usual, sounds began to drift down the passageway,
not in heavy and clattering fashion, but with a pattering quality like a bird upon a roof.

A fresh current of air began to blow upon him. He heard the creak of a rusty hinge.

"He has opened the door," Suvaroff whispered. His teeth began to chatter. "Nevertheless, I
shall sleep to-night," he said to himself reassuringly.

A faint footfall sounded upon the threshold.... Suvaroff drew the bedclothes higher.

THE EMPEROR OF ELAM[8]

[Note 8: Copyright, 1917, by The Century Company. Copyright, 1918, by H. G. Dwight.]

BY H. G. DWIGHT

From The Century Magazine.

Ecclesiastes, ix, 11.

I

The first of the two boats to arrive at this unappointed rendezvous was one to catch the eye
even in that river of strange craft. She had neither the raking bow nor the rising poop of
the local mehala, but a tall incurving beak, not unlike those of certain Mesopotamian sculptures,
with a windowed and curtained deck-house at the stern. Forward she carried a short mast. The
lateen sail was furled, however, and the galley was propelled at a fairly good gait by seven
pairs of long sweeps. They flashed none too rhythmically, it must be added, at the sun which
had just risen above the Persian mountains. And although the slit sleeves of the fourteen oarsmen,
all of them young and none of them ill to look upon, flapped decoratively enough about the
handles of the sweeps, they could not be said to present a shipshape appearance. Neither did
the black felt caps the boatmen wore, fantastically tall and knotted about their heads with
gay fringed scarves.

This barge had passed out of the Ab-i-Diz and was making its stately enough way across the
basin of divided waters below Bund-i-Kir, when from the mouth of the Ab-i-Gerger--the easterly
of two turbid threads into which the Karun above this point is split by a long island--there
shot a trim white motor-boat. The noise she made in the breathless summer sunrise, intensified
and reechoed by the high clay banks which here rise thirty feet or more above the water, caused
the rowers of the galley to look around. Then they dropped their sweeps in astonishment at
the spectacle of the small boat advancing so rapidly toward them without any effort on the
part of the four men it contained, as if blown by the breath of jinn. The word Firengi, however,
passed around the deck--that word so flattering to a great race, which once meant Frank but
which now, in one form or another, describes for the people of western Asia the people of Europe
and their cousins beyond the seas. Among the friends of the jinn, of whom as it happened only
two were Europeans, there also passed an explanatory word. But although they pronounced the
strange oarsmen to be Lurs, they caused their jinni to cease his panting, so struck were they
by the appearance of the high-beaked barge.

The two craft drifted abreast of each other about midway of the sunken basin. As they did so,
one of the Europeans in the motor-boat, a stocky black-moustached fellow in blue overalls,
wearing in place of the regulation helmet of that climate a greasy black béret over one ear,
lifted his hand from the wheel and called out the Arabic salutation of the country:

"Peace be unto you!"

"And to you, peace!" responded a deep voice from the doorway of the deck-house. It was evident
that the utterer of this friendly antiphon was not a Lur. Fairer, taller, stouter, and older
than his wild-looking crew, he was also better dressed--in a girdled robe of gray silk, with
a striped silk scarf covering his hair and the back of his neck in the manner of the Arabs.
A thick brown beard made his appearance more imposing, while two scars across his left cheek,
emerging from the beard, suggested or added to something in him which might on occasion become
formidable. As it was he stepped forward with a bow and addressed a slim young man who sat
in the stern of the motor-boat. "Shall we pass as Kinglake and the Englishman of Eothen did
in the desert," asked the stranger, smiling, in a very good English, "because they had not
been introduced? Or will you do me the honor to come on board my--ark?"

The slim young man, whose fair hair, smooth face, and white clothes made him the most boyish
looking of that curious company, lifted his white helmet and smiled in return.

"Why not?" he assented. And, becoming conscious that his examination of this surprising stranger,
who looked down at him with odd light eyes, was too near a stare, he added: "What on earth
is your ark made of, Mr. Noah?"

What she was made of, as a matter of fact, was what heightened the effect of remoteness she
produced--a hard dark wood unknown to the lower Karun, cut in lengths of not more than two
or three feet and caulked with reeds and mud.

"'Make thee an ark of gopher wood,'" quoted the stranger. "'Rooms shalt thou make in the ark,
and thou shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.'"

"Bitumen, eh?" exclaimed the slim young man. "Where did you get it?"

"Do you ask, you who drill oil at Meidan-i-Naft?"

"As it happens, I don't!" smiled the slim young man.

"At any rate," continued the stranger, after a scarcely perceptible pause, "let me welcome
you on board the Ark." And when the unseen jinni had made it possible for the slim young man
to set foot on the deck of the barge, the stranger added, with a bow: "Magin is my name--from
Brazil."

If the slim young man did not stare again, he at least had time to make out that the oddity
of his host's light eyes lay not so much in the fact of their failing to be distinctly brown,
gray, or green, as that they had a translucent look. Then he responded briefly, holding out
his hand:

"Matthews. But isn't this a long way from Rio de Janeiro?"

"Well," returned the other, "it's not so near London! But come in and have something, won't
you?" And he held aside the reed portière that screened the door of the deck-house.

"My word! You do know how to do yourself!" exclaimed Matthews. His eye took in the Kerman embroidery
on the table in the centre of the small saloon, the gazelle skins and silky Shiraz rugs covering
the two divans at the sides, the fine Sumak carpet on the floor, and the lion pelt in front
of an inner door. "By Jove!" he exclaimed again. "That's a beauty!"

"Ha!" laughed the Brazilian. "The Englishman spies his lion first!"

"Where did you find him?" asked Matthews, going behind the table for a better look. "They're
getting few and far between around here, they say."

"Oh, they still turn up," answered the Brazilian, it seemed to Matthews not too definitely.
Before he could pursue the question farther, Magin clapped his hands. Instantly there appeared
at the outer door a barefooted Lur, whose extraordinary cap looked to Matthews even taller
and more pontifical than those of his fellow-countrymen at the oars. The Lur, his hands crossed
on his girdle, received a rapid order and vanished as silently as he came.

"I wish I knew the lingo like that!" commented Matthews.

Magin waved a deprecatory hand.

"One picks it up soon enough. Besides, what's the use--with a man like yours? Who is he, by
the way? He doesn't look English."

"Who? Gaston? He isn't. He's French. And he doesn't know too much of the lingo. But the blighter
could get on anywhere. He's been all over the place--Algiers, Egypt, Baghdad. He's been chauffeur
to more nabobs in turbans than you can count. He's a topping mechanic, too. The wheel hasn't
been invented that beggar can't make go 'round. The only trouble he has is with his own. He
keeps time for a year or two, and then something happens to his mainspring and he gets the
sack. But he never seems to go home. He always moves on to some place where it's hotter and
dirtier. You should hear his stories! He's an amusing devil."

"And perhaps not so different from the rest of us!" threw out Magin. "What flea bites us? Why
do you come here, courting destruction in a cockleshell that may any minute split on a rock
and spill you to the sharks, when you might be punting some pretty girl up the backwaters of
the Thames? Why do I float around in this old ark of reeds and bulrushes, like an elderly Moses
in search of a promised land, who should be at home wearing the slippers of middle age? What
is it? A sunstroke? This is hardly the country where Goethe's citrons bloom!"

"Damned if I know!" laughed Matthews. "I fancy we like a bit of a lark!"

The Brazilian laughed too.

"A bit of a lark!" he echoed.

Just then the silent Lur reappeared with a tray.

"I say!" protested Matthews. "Whiskey and soda at five o'clock in the morning, in the middle
of July--"

"1914, if you must be so precise!" added Magin jovially. "But why not?" he demanded. "Aren't
you an Englishman? You mustn't shake the pious belief in which I was brought up, that you are
all weaned with Scotch! Say when. It isn't every day that I have the pleasure of so fortunate
an encounter." And, rising, he lifted his glass, bowed, and said: "Here's to a bit of a lark,
Mr. Matthews!"

The younger man rose to it. But inwardly he began to feel a little irked.

"By the way," he asked, nibbling at a biscuit, "can you tell me anything about the Ab-i-Diz?
I dare say you must know something about it--since your men look as if they came from up that
way. Is there a decent channel as far as Dizful?"

"Ah!" uttered Magin slowly. "Are you thinking of going up there?" He considered the question,
and his guest, with a flicker in his lighted eyes. "Well, decent is a relative word, you know.
However, wonders can be accomplished with a stout rope and a gang of natives, even beyond Dizful.
But here you see me and my ark still whole--after a night journey, too. The worst thing is
the sun. You see I am more careful of my skin than you. As for the shoals, the rapids, the
sharks, the lions, the nomads who pop at you from the bank, et cetera--you are an Englishman!
Do you take an interest in antiques?" he broke off abruptly.

"Yes--though interest is a relative word too, I expect."

"Quite so!" agreed the Brazilian. "I have rather a mania for that sort of thing, myself. Wait.
Let me show you." And he went into the inner cabin. When he came back he held up an alabaster
cup. "A Greek kylix!" he cried. "Pure Greek! What an outline, eh? This is what keeps me from
putting on my slippers! I have no doubt Alexander left it behind him. Perhaps Hephaistion drank
out of it, or Nearchus, to celebrate his return from India. And some rascally Persian stole
it out of a tent!"

Matthews, taking the cup, saw the flicker brighten in the Brazilian's eyes.

"Nice little pattern of grape leaves, that," he said. "And think of picking it up out here!"

"Oh you can always pick things up, if you know where to look," said Magin. "Dieulafoy and the
rest of them didn't take everything. How could they? The people who have come and gone through
this country of Elam! Why just over there, at Bund-i-Kir, Antigonus fought Eumenes and the
Silver Shields for the spoils of Susa--and won them! I have discovered--But come in here."
And he pushed wider open the door of the inner cabin.

Matthews stepped into what was evidently a stateroom. A broad bunk filled one side of it, and
the visitor could not help remarking a second interior door. But his eye was chiefly struck
by two, three, no four, chests, which took up more space in the narrow cabin than could be
convenient for its occupant. They seemed to be made of the same mysterious dark wood as the
"ark," clamped with copper.

"I say! Those aren't bad!" he exclaimed. "More of the spoils of Susa?"

"Ho! My trunks? I had them made up the river, like the rest. But I wonder what would interest
you in my museum. Let's see." He bent over one of the chests, unlocked it, rummaged under the
cover, and brought out a broad metal circlet which he handed to Matthews. "How would that do
for a crown, eh?"

The young man took it over to the porthole. The metal, he then saw, was a soft antique gold,
wrought into a decoration of delicate spindles, with a border of filigree. The circlet was
beautiful in itself, and astonishingly heavy. But what it chiefly did for Matthews was to sharpen
the sense of strangeness, of remoteness, which this bizarre galley, come from unknown waters,
had brought into the familiar muddy Karun.

"As a matter of fact," went on the Brazilian, "it's an anklet. But can you make it out? Those
spindles are Persian, while the filigree is more Byzantine than anything else. You find funny
things up there, in caves--"

He tossed a vague hand, into which Matthews put the anklet, saying:

"Take it before I steal it!"

"Keep it, won't you?" proposed the astonishing Brazilian.

"Oh, thanks. But I could hardly do that," Matthews replied.

"Why not?" protested Magin. "As a souvenir of a pleasant meeting! I have a ton of them." He
waved his hand at the chests.

"No, really, thanks," persisted the young man. "And I'm afraid we must be getting on. I don't
know the river, you see, and I'd like to reach Dizful before dark."

The Brazilian studied him a moment.

"As you say," he finally conceded. "But you will at least have another drink before you go?"

"No, not even that, thanks," said Matthews. "We really must be off. But it's been very decent
of you."

He felt both awkward and amused as he backed out to the deck, followed by his imposing host.
At sight of the two the crew scattered to their oars. They had been leaning over the side,
absorbed in admiration of the white jinn-boat. Matthews' Persian servant handed up to Magin's
butler a tray of tea glasses--on which Matthews also noted a bottle. In honor of that bottle
Gaston himself stood up and took off his greasy cap.

"A thousand thanks, Monsieur," he said. "I have tasted nothing so good since I left France."

"In that case, my friend," rejoined Magin in French as good as his English, "it is time you
returned!" And he abounded in amiable speeches and ceremonious bows until the last au revoir.

"Au plaisir!" called back Gaston, having invoked his jinni. Then, after a last look at the
barge, he asked over his shoulder in a low voice: "Who is this extraordinary type, M'sieu Guy?
A species of an Arab, who speaks French and English and who voyages in a galley from a museum!"

"A Brazilian, he says," imparted M'sieu Guy--whose surname was beyond Gaston's gallic tongue.

"Ah! The uncle of America! That understands itself! He sent me out a cognac, too! And did he
present you to his dame de compagnie? She put her head out of a porthole to look at our boat.
A Lur, like the others, but with a pair of blistering black eyes! And a jewel in her nose!"

"It takes you, Gaston," said Guy Matthews, "to discover a dame of company!"

II

When the white motor-boat had disappeared in the glitter of the Ab-i-Diz, Senhor Magin, not
unlike other fallible human beings when released from the necessity of keeping up a pitch,
appeared to lose something of his gracious humor. So, it transpired, did his decorative boatmen,
who had not expected to row twenty-five miles upstream at a time when most people in that climate
seek the relief of their serdabs--which are underground chambers cooled by running water, it
may be, and by a tall badgir, or air chimney. The running water, to be sure, was here, and
had already begun to carry the barge down the Karun. If the high banks of that tawny stream
constituted a species of air chimney, however, such air as moved therein was not calculated
for relief. But when Brazilians command, even a Lur may obey. These Lurs, at all events, propelled
their galley back to the basin of Bund-i-Kir, and on into the Ab-i-Shuteit--which is the westerly
of those two halves of the Karun. Before nightfall the barge had reached the point where navigation
ends. There Magin sent his majordomo ashore to procure mounts. And at sunset the two of them,
followed by a horse boy, rode northward six or seven miles, till the city of Shuster rose dark
above them in the summer evening, on its rock that cleaves the Karun in two.

The Bazaar by which they entered the town was deserted at that hour, save by dogs that set
up a terrific barking at the sight of strangers. Here the charvadar lighted a vast white linen
lantern, which he proceeded to carry in front of the two riders. He seemed to know where he
was going, for he led the way without a pause through long blank silent streets of indescribable
filth and smells. The gloom of them was deepened by jutting balconies, and by innumerable badgirs
that cut out a strange black fretwork against amazing stars. At last the three stopped in front
of a gate in the vicinity of the citadel. This was not one of the gateways that separate the
different quarters of Shuster, but a door in a wall, recessed in a tall arch and ornamented
with an extraordinary variety of iron clamps, knobs, locks, and knockers.

Of one of the latter the charvadar made repeated use until someone shouted from inside. The
horse-boy shouted back, and presently his lantern caught a glitter of two eyes in a slit. The
eyes belonged to a cautious doorkeeper, who after satisfying himself that the visitors were
not enemies admitted the Brazilian and the Lur into a vaulted brick vestibule. Then, having
looked to his wards and bolts, he lighted Magin through a corridor which turned into a low
tunnel-like passage. This led into a sort of cloister, where a covered ambulatory surrounded
a dark pool of stars. Thence another passage brought them out into a great open court. Here
an invisible jet of water made an illusion of coolness in another, larger, pool, overlooked
by a portico of tall slim pillars. Between them Magin caught the glow of a cigar.

"Good evening, Ganz," his bass voice called from the court.

"Heaven! Is that you?" replied the smoker of the cigar. "What are you doing here, in God's
name? I imagined you at Mohamera, by this time, or even in the Gulf." This remark, it may not
be irrelevant to say, was in German--as spoken in the trim town of Zurich.

"And so I should have been," replied the polyglot Magin in the same language, mounting the
steps of the portico and shaking his friend's hand, "but for--all sorts of things. If we ran
aground once, we ran aground three thousand times. I begin to wonder if we shall get through
the reefs at Ahwaz--with all the rubbish I have on board."

"Ah, bah! You can manage, going down. But why do you waste your time in Shuster, with all that
is going on in Europe?"

"H'm!" grunted Magin. "What is going on in Europe? A great family is wearing well cut mourning,
and a small family is beginning to turn green! How does that affect two quiet nomads in Elam--especially
when one of them is a Swiss and one a Brazilian?" He laughed, and lighted a cigar the other
offered him. "My dear Ganz, it is an enigma to me how a man who can listen to such a fountain,
and admire such stars, can perpetually sigh after the absurdities of Europe! Which reminds
me that I met an Englishman this morning."

"Well, what of that? Are Englishmen so rare?"

"Alas, no--though I notice, my good Ganz, that you do your best to thin them out! This specimen
was too typical for me to be able to describe him. Younger than usual, possibly; yellow hair,
blue eyes, constrained manner, everything to sample. He called himself Mark, or Matthew. Rather
their apostolic air, too--except that he was in the Oil Company's motor-boat. But he gave me
to understand that he was not in the Oil Company."

"Quite so."

"I saw for myself that he knows nothing about archæology. Who is he? Lynch? Bank? Telegraph?"

"He's not Lynch, and he's not Bank, and he's not Telegraph. Neither is he consul, or even that
famous railroad. He's--English!" And Ganz let out a chuckle at the success of his own characterization.

"Ah! So?" exclaimed Magin elaborately. "I hear, by the way, that that famous railroad is not
marching so fast. The Lurs don't like it. But sometimes even Englishmen," he added, "have reasons
for doing what they do. This one, at any rate, seemed more inclined to ask questions than to
answer them. I confess I don't know whether it was because he had nothing to say or whether
he preferred not to say it. Is he perhaps a son of Papa, making the grand tour?"

"More or less. Papa gave him no great letter of credit, though. He came out to visit some of
the Oil people. And he's been here long enough to learn quite a lot of Persian."

"So he starts this morning, I take it, from Sheleilieh. But why the devil does he go to Dizful,
by himself?"

"And why the devil shouldn't he? He's out here, and he wants to see the sights--such as they
are. So he's going to take a look at the ruins of Susa, and at your wonderful unspoiled Dizful.
Shir Ali Khan will be delighted to get a few tomans for his empty house by the river. Then
the 21st, you know, is the coronation. So I gave him a letter to the Father of Swords, who--"

"Thunder and lightning!" Magin's heavy voice resounded in the portico very like a bellow. "You,
Ganz, sent this man to the Father of Swords? He might be one of those lieutenants from India
who go smelling around in their holidays, so pink and innocent!"

"What is that to me?" demanded the Swiss, raising his own voice. "Or to you either? After all,
Senhor Magin, are you the Emperor of Elam?"

The Brazilian laughed.

"Not yet! And naturally it's nothing to you, when you cash him checks and sell him tinned cows
and quinine. But for a man who perpetually sighs after Europe, Herr Ganz, and for a Swiss of
the north, you strike me as betraying a singular lack of sensibility to certain larger interests
of your race. However--What concerns me is that you should have confided to this young man,
with such a roll of sentimental eyes as I can imagine, that Dizful is still 'unspoiled'! If
Dizful is unspoiled, he might spoil it. I've found some very nice things up there, you know.
I was even fool enough to show him one or two."

"Bah! He likes to play tennis and shoot! You know these English boys."

Magin considered those English boys in silence for a moment.

"Yes, I know them. This one told me he liked a bit of a lark! I know myself what a lark it
is to navigate the Ab-i-Diz, at the end of July! But what is most curious about these English
boys is that when they go out for a bit of a lark they come home with Egypt or India in their
pocket. Have you noticed that, Ganz? That's their idea of a bit of a lark. And with it all
they are still children. What can one do with such people? A bit of a lark! Well, you will
perhaps make me a little annoyance, Mr. Adolf Ganz, by sending your English boy up to Dizful
to have a bit of a lark. However, he'll either give himself a sunstroke or get himself bitten
in two by a shark. He asked me about the channel, and I had an inspiration. I told him he would
have no trouble. So he'll go full speed and we shall see what we shall see. Do you sell coffins,
Mr. Ganz, in addition to all your other valuable merchandise?"

"Naturally, Mr. Magin," replied the Swiss. "Do you need one? But you haven't explained to me
yet why you give me the pain of saying good-bye to you a second time."

"Partly, Mr. Ganz, because I am tired of sleeping in an oven, and partly because I--the Father
of Swords has asked me to run up to Bala Bala before I leave. But principally because I need
a case or two more of your excellent vin de champagne--manufactured out of Persian petroleum,
the water of the Karun, the nameless abominations of Shuster, and the ever effervescing impudence
of the Swiss Republic!"

"What can I do?" smiled the flattered author of this concoction. "I have to use what I can
get, in this Godforsaken place."

"And I suppose you will end by getting a million, eh?"

"No such luck! But I'm getting a piano. Did I tell you? A Blüthner. It's already on the way
up from Mohamera."

"A Blüthner! In Shuster! God in heaven! Why did you wait until I had gone?"

"Well, aren't you still here?" The fact of Magin's being still there, so unexpectedly, hung
in his mind. "By the way, speaking of the Father of Swords, did you give him an order?"

"I gave him an order. Didn't you pay it?"

"I thought twice about it. For unless you have struck oil, up in that country of yours where
nobody goes, or gold--"

"Mr. Adolf Ganz," remarked the Brazilian with some pointedness, "all I ask of you is to respect
my signature and to keep closed that many-tongued mouth of yours. I sometimes fear that in
you the banker is inclined to exchange confidences with the chemist--or even with the son of
Papa who cashes a check. Eh?"

Ganz cleared his throat.

"In that case," he rejoined, "all you have to do is to ask him, when you meet him again at
Bala Bala. And the English bank will no doubt be happy to accept the transfer of your account."

Magin began to chuckle.

"We assert our dignity? Never mind, Adolf. As a matter of fact I have a high opinion of your
discretion--so high that when I found the Imperial Bank of Elam I shall put you in charge of
it! And you did me a real service by sending that motor-boat across my bow this morning. For
in it I discovered just the chauffeur I have been looking for. I am getting tired of my galley,
you know. You will see something when I come back."

"But," Ganz asked after a moment, "do you really expect to come back?"

"But what else should I do? End my days sneezing and sniffling by some polite lake of Zurich
like you, my poor Ganz, when you find in your hand the magic key that might unlock for you
any door in the world? That, for example, is not my idea of a lark, as your son of Papa would
say! Men are astounding animals, I admit. But I never could live in Europe, where you can't
turn around without stepping on some one else's toes. I want room! I want air! I want light!
And for a collector, you know, America is after all a little bare. While here--!"

"O God!" cried Adolf Ganz out of his dark Persian portico.

III

As Gaston very truly observed, there are moments in Persia when even the most experienced chauffeur
is capable of an emotion. And an unusual number of such moments enlivened for Gaston and his
companions their journey up the Ab-i-Diz. Indeed Matthews asked himself more than once why
he had chosen so doubtful a road to Dizful, when he might so much more easily have ridden there,
and at night. It certainly was not beautiful, that river of brass zigzagging out of sight of
its empty hinterland. Very seldom did anything so visible as a palm lift itself against the
blinding Persian blue. Konar trees were commoner, their dense round masses sometimes shading
a white-washed tomb or a black tent. Once or twice at sight of the motor-boat a bellam, a native
canoe, took refuge at the mouth of one of the gullies that scarred the bank like sun-cracks.
Generally, however, there was nothing to be seen between the water and the sky but two yellow
walls of clay, topped by endless thickets of tamarisk and nameless scrub. Matthews wondered,
disappointed, whether a jungle looked like that, and if some black-maned lion walked more softly
in it, or slept less soundly, hearing the pant of the unknown creature in the river. But there
was no lack of more immediate lions in the path. The sun, for one thing, as the Brazilian had
predicted, proved a torment against which double awnings faced with green were of small avail.
Then the treacheries of a crooked and constantly shallowing channel needed all the attention
the travelers could spare. And the rapids of Kaleh Bunder, where a rocky island flanked by
two reefs threatened to bar any further progress, afforded the liveliest moments of their day.

The end of that day, nevertheless, found our sight-seer smoking cigarettes in Shir Ali Khan's
garden at Dizful and listening to the camel bells that jingled from the direction of certain
tall black pointed arches straddling the dark river. When Matthews looked at those arches by
sunlight, and at the queer old flat-topped yellow town visible through them, he regretted that
he had made up his mind to continue his journey so soon. However, he was coming back. So he
packed off Gaston and the Bakhtiari to Sheleilieh, where they and their motor-boat belonged.
And he himself, with his servant Abbas and the charvadar of whom they hired horses, set out
at nightfall for the mountain citadel of Bala Bala. For there the great Salman Taki Khan, chieftain
of the lower Lurs, otherwise known as the Father of Swords, was to celebrate as became a redoubtable
vassal of a remote and youthful suzerain the coronation of Ahmed Shah Kajar.

It was nearly morning again when, after a last scramble up a trough of rocks and gravel too
steep for riding, the small cavalcade reached a plateau in the shadow of still loftier elevations.
Here they were greeted by a furious barking of dogs. Indeed it quickly became necessary to
organize a defence of whips and stones against the guardians of that high plateau. The uproar
soon brought a shout out of the darkness. The charvadar shouted back, and after a long-distance
colloquy there appeared a figure crowned by the tall kola of the Brazilian's boatmen, who drove
the dogs away. The dialect in which he spoke proved incomprehensible to Matthews. Luckily it
was not altogether so to Abbas, that underling long resigned to the eccentricities of the Firengi,
whose accomplishments included even a sketchy knowledge of his master's tongue. It appeared
that the law of Bala Bala forbade the door of the Father of Swords to open before sunrise.
But the tall-hatted one offered the visitor the provisional hospitality of a black tent, of
a refreshing drink of goats' buttermilk, and of a comfortable felt whereon to stretch cramped legs.

When Matthews returned to consciousness he first became aware of a blinding oblong of light
in the dark wall of the tent. He then made out a circle of pontifical black hats, staring at
him, his fair hair, and his indecently close-fitting clothes, in the silence of unutterable
curiosity. It made him think, for a bewildered instant, that he was back on the barge he had
met in the river. As for the black hats, what astonished them not least was the stranger's
immediate demand for water, and his evident dissatisfaction with the quantity of it they brought
him. There happily proved to be no lack of this commodity, as Matthews' ears had told him.
He was not long in pursuing the sound into the open, where he found himself at the edge of
a village of black tents, pitched in a grassy hollow between two heights. The nearer and lower
was a detached cone of rock, crowned by a rude castle. The other peak, not quite so precipitous,
afforded foothold for scattered scrub oaks and for a host of slowly moving sheep and goats.
Between them the plateau looked down on two sides into two converging valleys. And the clear
air was full of the noise of a brook that cascaded between the scrub oaks of the higher mountain,
raced past the tents, and plunged out of sight in the narrower gorge.

"Ripping!" pronounced Matthews genially to his black-hatted gallery.

He was less genial about the persistence of the gallery, rapidly increased by recruits from
the black tents, in dogging him through every detail of his toilet. But he was rescued at last
by Abbas and an old Lur who, putting his two hands to the edge of his black cap, saluted him
in the name of the Father of Swords. The Lur then led the way to a trail that zigzagged up
the lower part of the rocky cone. He explained the quantity of loose boulders obstructing the
path by saying that they had been left there to roll down on whomever should visit the Father
of Swords without an invitation. That such an enterprise would not be too simple became more
evident when the path turned into a cave. Here another Lur was waiting with candles. He gave
one each to the newcomers, leading the way to a low door in the rock. This was opened by an
individual in a long red coat of ceremony, carrying a heavy silver mace, who gave Matthews
the customary salutation of peace and bowed him into an irregular court. An infinity of doors
opened out of it--chiefly of the stables, the old man said, pointing out a big white mule or
two of the famous breed of Bala Bala. Thence the visitor was led up a steep stone stair to
a terrace giving entrance upon a corridor and another, narrower stone stair. From its prodigiously
high steps he emerged into a hall, carpeted with felt. At this point, the Lurs took off their
shoes. Matthews followed suit, being then ushered into what was evidently a room of state.
It contained no furniture, to be sure, save for the handsome rugs on the floor. The room did
not look bare, however, for its lines were broken by a deep alcove, and by a continuous succession
of niches. Between and about the niches the walls were decorated with plaster reliefs of flowers
and arabesques. Matthews wondered if the black hats were capable of that! But what chiefly
caught his eye was the terrace opening out of the room, and the stupendous view.

The terrace hung over a green chasm where the two converging gorges met at the foot of the
crag of Bala Bala. Matthews looked down as from the prow of a ship into the tumbled country
below him, through which a river flashed sinuously toward the faraway haze of the plains. The
sound of water filling the still clear air, the brilliance of the morning light, the wildness
and remoteness of that mountain eyrie, so different from anything he had yet seen, added a
last strangeness to the impressions of which the young man had been having so many.

"What a pity to spoil it with a railroad!" he could not help thinking, as he leaned over the
parapet of the terrace.

"Sahib!" suddenly whispered Abbas behind him.

Matthews turned, and saw in the doorway of the terrace a personage who could be none other
than his host. In place of the kola of his people this personage wore a great white turban,
touched with gold. The loose blue aba enveloping his ample figure was also embroidered with
gold. Not the least striking detail of his appearance however, was his beard, which had a pronounced
tendency toward scarlet. His nails were likewise reddened with henna, reminding Matthews that
the hands belonging to the nails were rumored to bear even more sinister stains. And the bottomless
black eyes peering out from under the white turban lent surprising credibility to such rumors.
But there was no lack of graciousness in the gestures with which those famous hands saluted
the visitor and pointed him to a seat of honor on the rug beside the Father of Swords. The
Father of Swords furthermore pronounced his heart uplifted to receive a friend of Ganz Sahib,
that prince among the merchants of Shuster. Yet he did not hesitate to express a certain surprise
at discovering in the friend of the prince among the merchants of Shuster one still in the
flower of youth, who at the same time exhibited the features of good fortune and the lineaments
of prudence. And he inquired as to what sorrow had led one so young to fold the carpet of enjoyment
and wander so far from his parents.

Matthews, disdaining the promptings of Abbas--who stood apart like a statue of obsequiousness,
each hand stuck into the sleeve of the other--responded as best he might. In the meantime tea
and candies were served by a black hat on bended knee, who also produced a pair of ornate pipes.
The Father of Swords marvelled that Matthews should have abandoned the delights of Shuster
in order to witness his poor celebrations of the morrow, in honor of the coronation. And had
he felt no fear of robbers, during his long night ride from Dizful? But what robbers were there
to fear, protested Matthews, in the very shadow of Bala Bala? At that the Father of Swords
began to make bitter complaint of the afflictions Allah had laid upon him, taking his text
from these lines of Sadi: "If thou tellest the sorrows of thy heart, let it be to him in whose
countenance thou mayst be assured of prompt consolation." The world, he declared, was fallen
into disorder, like the hair of an Ethiopian. Within the city wall was a people well disposed
as angels; without, a band of tigers. After which he asked if the young Firengi were of the
company of those who dug for the poisoned water of Bakhtiari Land, or whether perchance he
were of the People of the Chain.

These figures of speech would have been incomprehensible to Matthews, if Abbas had not hinted
something about oil rigs. He accordingly confessed that he had nothing to do with either of
the two enterprises. The Father of Swords then expatiated on those who caused the Lurs to seize
the hand of amazement with the teeth of chagrin, by dragging through their valleys a long chain,
as if they meant to take prisoners. These unwelcome Firengis were also to be known by certain
strange inventions on three legs, into which they would gaze by the hour. Were they warriors,
threatening devastation? Or were they magicians, spying into the future and laying a spell
upon the people of Luristan? Their account of themselves the Father of Swords found far from
satisfactory, claiming as they did that they proposed to build a road of iron, whereby it would
be possible for a man to go from Dizful to Khorremabad in one day. For the rest, what business
had the people of Dizful, too many of whom were Arabs, in Khorremabad, a city of Lurs? Let
the men of Dizful remain in Dizful, and those of Khorremabad continue where they were born.
As for him, his white mules needed no road of iron to carry him about his affairs.

Matthews, recalling his own thoughts as he leaned over the parapet of the terrace, spoke consolingly
to the Father of Swords concerning the People of the Chain. The Father of Swords listened to
him, drawing meditatively at his waterpipe. He thereupon inquired if Matthews were acquainted
with another friend of the prince among the merchants of Shuster, himself a Firengi by birth,
though recently persuaded of the truths of Islam; and not like this visitor of good omen, in
the bloom of youth, but bearded and hardened in battles, bearing the scars of them on his face.

Matthews began to go over in his mind the short list of Europeans he had met on the Karun,
till suddenly he bethought him of that extraordinary barge he had encountered--could it be
only a couple of days ago?

"Magin Sahib?" he asked. "I know him--if he is the one who travels in the river in a mehala
not like other mehalas, rowed by Lurs."

"'That is a musk which discloses itself by its scent, and not what the perfumers impose upon
us,'" quoted the Father of Swords. "This man," he continued, "our friend and the friend of
our friend, warned me that they of the chain are sons of oppression, destined to bring misfortune
to the Lurs. Surely my soul is tightened, not knowing whom I may believe."

"Rum bounder!" said Matthews to himself, as his mind went back to the already mythic barge,
and its fantastic oarsmen from these very mountains, and its antique-hunting, history-citing
master from oversea, who quoted the Book of Genesis and who carried mysterious passengers with
nose-jewels. But our not too articulate young man was less prompt about what he should say
aloud. He began to find more in this interview than he had expected. He was tickled at his
host's flowery forms of speech, and after all rather sympathized with the suspicious old ruffian,
yet it was not for him to fail in loyalty toward the "People of the Chain." Several of them
he knew, as it happened, and they had delighted him with their wild yarns of surveying in Luristan.
So he managed no more than to achieve an appearance of slightly offended dignity.

Considering which, out of those opaque eyes, the Father of Swords clapped those famous hands
and commanded a responsive black hat to bring him his green chest. At that Matthews pricked
up interested ears indeed. The chest, however, when set down in front of the Father of Swords,
proved to be nothing at all like the one out of which the Brazilian had taken his gold anklet.
It was quite small and painted green, though quaintly enough provided with triple locks of
beaten iron. The Father of Swords unlocked them deliberately, withdrew from an inner compartment
a round tin case, and from that a roll of parchment which he pressed to his lips with infinite
solemnity. He then handed it to Matthews.

He was one, our not too articulate young man, to take things as they came and not to require,
even east of Suez, the spice of romance with his daily bread. His last days, moreover, had
been too crowded for him to ruminate over their taste. But it was not every day that he squatted
on the same rug with a scarlet-bearded old cutthroat of a mountain chief. So it was that his
more or less casual lark visibly took on, from the perspective of this castle in Luristan,
as he unrolled a gaudy emblazonment of eagles at the top of the parchment, a new and curious
color. For below the eagle he came upon what he darkly made out to be a species of treaty,
inscribed neither in the Arabic nor in the Roman but in the German character, between the Father
of Swords and a more notorious War Lord. And below that was signed, sealed, and imposingly
paraphed the signature of one Julius Magin. Which was indeed a novel aspect for a Brazilian,
however versatile, to reveal.

He permitted himself, did Guy Matthews, a smile.

"You do not kiss it?" observed the Father of Swords.

"In my country," Matthews began--

"But it is, may I be your sacrifice," interrupted the Father of Swords, "a letter from the
Shah of the Shahs of the Firengis." It was evident that he was both impressed and certain of
impressing his hearer. "He has promised eternal peace to me and to my people."

The Englishman in Matthews permitted him a second smile.

"The Father of Swords," he said, "speaks a word which I do not understand. I am a Firengi,
but I have never heard of a Shah of the Shahs of the Firengis. In the house of Islam are there
not many who rule? In Tehran, for instance, there is the young Ahmed Shah. Then among the Bakhtiaris
there is an Ilkhani, at Mohamera there is the Sheikh of the Cha'b, and in the valleys of Pusht-i-Kuh
none is above the Father of Swords. I do not forget, either, the Emirs of Mecca and Afghanistan,
or the Sultan in Stambul. And among them what Firengi shall say who is the greatest? And so
it is in Firengistan. Yet as for this paper, it is written in the tongue of a king smaller
than the one whose subject I am, whose crown has been worn by few fathers. But the name at
the bottom of the paper is not his. It is not even a name known to the Firengis when they speak
among themselves of the great of their lands. Where did you see him?"

The Father of Swords stroked his scarlet beard, looking at his young visitor with more of a
gleam in the dull black of his eyes than Matthews had yet noticed.

"Truly is it said: 'Fix not thy heart on what is transitory, for the Tigris will continue to
flow through Baghdad after the race of Caliphs is extinct!' You make it clear to me that you
are of the People of the Chain."

"If I were of the People of the Chain," protested Matthews, "there is no reason why I should
hide it. The People of the Chain do not steal secretly through the valleys of Pusht-i-Kuh,
telling the Lurs lies and giving them papers in the night. I am not one of the People of the
Chain. But the king of the People of the Chain is also my king. And he is a great king, lord
of many lands and many seas, who has no need of secret messengers, hostlers and scullions of
whom no one has heard, to persuade strangers of his greatness."

"Your words do not persuade me!" cried the Father of Swords. "A wise man is like a jar in the
house of the apothecary, silent but full of virtues. If the king who sent me this letter has
such hostlers and such scullions, how great must be his khans and viziers! And why do the Turks
trust him? Why do the other Firengis allow his ships in Bushir and Basra? Or why do not the
People of the Chain better prove the character of their lord? But the hand of liberality is
stronger than the arm of power. This king, against whom you speak, heard me draw the sigh of
affliction from the bosom of uncertainty. He deigned to regard me with the eye of patronage,
sending me good words and promises of peace and friendship. He will not permit the house of
Islam to be troubled. From many we have heard it."

"Ah!" exclaimed Matthews. "Now I understand why you have not kept your promises to the People
of the Chain!" And he rubbed his thumb against his forefinger, in the gesture of the East that
signifies the payment of money.

"Why not?" demanded the Father of Swords, angrily. "The duty of a king is munificence. Or why
should there be a way to pass through my mountains? Has it ever been said of the Lur that he
stepped back before a stranger? That is for the Shah in Tehran, who has become the servant
of the Russian! Let the People of the Chain learn that my neck does not know how to bow! And
what guest are you to sprinkle my sore with the salt of harsh words? A boy, who comes here
no one knows why, on hired horses, with only one follower to attend him!"

Matthews flushed.

"Salman Taki Khan," he retorted, "it is true that I come to you humbly, and without a beard.
And your beard is already white, and you can call out thirty thousand men to follow you. Yet
a piece of gold will make you believe a lie. And I swear to you that whether I give you back
this paper to put in your chest, or whether I spit on it and tear it in pieces and throw it
to the wind of that valley, it is one."

To which the Father of Swords made emphatic enough rejoinder by snatching the parchment away,
rising to his feet, and striding out of the room without a word.

IV

The festivities in honor of the Shah's coronation took place at Bala Bala with due solemnity.
Among the black tents there was much plucking of plaintive strings, there was more stuffing
of mutton and pilau, and after dark many a little rockets, improvized out of gunpowder and
baked clay, traced brief arabesques of gold against the black of the underlying gorges. The
castle celebrated in the same simple way. The stuffing, to be sure, was more prolonged and
recondite, while dancers imported from Dizful swayed and snapped their fingers, singing for
the pleasure of the Father of Swords. The eyes of that old man of the mountain remained opaque
as ever, save when he rebuked the almoner who sat at meat with him for indecorously quoting
the lines of Sadi, when he says: "Such was this delicate crescent of the moon, and fascination
of the holy, this form of an angel, and decoration of a peacock, that let them once behold
her, and continence must cease to exist in the constitutions of the chaste."

This rebuke might have been called forth by the presence of another guest at the board. Be
that as it may, the eyes of the Father of Swords glimmered perceptibly when they rested on
the unannounced visitor for whom he fished out, with his own henna'ed fingers, the fattest
morsels of mutton and the juiciest sweets. I hasten to add that the newcomer was not the one
whose earlier arrival and interview with the Father of Swords has already been recorded. He
was, nevertheless, a personage not unknown to this record, whether as Senhor Magin of Brazil
or as the emissary of the Shah of the Shahs of Firengistan. For not only had he felt impelled
to bid good-by a second time to his friend Adolf Ganz, prince among the merchants of Shustar.
He had even postponed his voyage down the Karun long enough to make one more journey overland
to Bala Bala. And he heard there, not without interest, the story of the short visit and the
sudden flight of the young Englishman he had accidentally met on the river.

As for Matthews, he celebrated the coronation at Dizful, in bed. And by the time he had slept
off his fag, Bala Bala and the Father of Swords and the green chest and the ingenious Magin
looked to him more than ever like figures of myth. He was too little of the timber out of which
journalists, romancers, or diplomats are made to take them very seriously. The world he lived
in, moreover, was too solid to be shaken by any such flimsy device as the one of which he had
happened to catch a glimpse. What had been real to him was that he, Guy Matthews, had been
suspected of playing a part in story-book intrigues, and had been treated rudely by an old
barbarian of whom he expected the proverbial hospitality of the East. His affair had therefore
been to show Mr. Scarlet Beard that if a Lur could turn his back, an Englishman could do likewise.
He now saw, to be sure, that he himself had not been altogether the pattern of courtesy. But
the old man of the mountain had got what was coming to him. And Matthews regretted very little,
after all, missing what he had gone to see. For Dizful, peering at him through the arches of
the bridge, reminded that there was still something to see.

It must be said of him, however, that he showed no impatience to see the neighboring ruins
of Susa. He was not one, this young man who was out for a bit of a lark, to sentimentalize
about antiquity or the charm of the unspoiled. Yet even such young men are capable of finding
the rumness of strange towns a passable enough lark, to say nothing of the general unexpectedness
of life. And Dizful turned out to be quite as unexpected, in its way, as Bala Bala. Matthews
found that out before he had been three days in the place, when a sudden roar set all the loose
little panes tinkling in Shir Ali Khan's garden windows.

Abbas explained that this was merely a cannon shot, announcing the new moon of Ramazan. That
loud call of the faith evidently made Dizful a rummer place than it normally was. Matthews
soon got used to the daily repetitions of the sound, rumbling off at sunset and before dawn
into the silence of the plains. But the recurring explosion became for him the voice of the
particular rumness of the fanatical old border town--of fierce sun, terrific smells, snapping
dogs, and scowling people. When the stranger without the gate crossed his bridge of a morning
for a stroll in the town, he felt like a discoverer of some lost desert city. He threaded alleys
of blinding light, he explored dim thatched bazaars, he studied tiled doorways in blank mud
walls, he investigated quaint water-mills by the river, and scarce a soul did he see, unless
a stork in its nest on top of a tall badgir or a naked dervish lying in a scrap of shade asleep
under a lion skin. It was as if Dizful drowsed sullenly in that July blaze brewing something,
like a geyser, and burst out with it at the end of the unendurable day.

The brew of the night, however, was a different mixture, quite the rummiest compound of its
kind Matthews had ever tasted. The bang of the sunset gun instantly brought the deserted city
back to life. Lights began to twinkle--in tea houses, along the river, among the indigo plantations--streets
filled with ghostly costumes and jostling camels, and everywhere voices would celebrate the
happy return of dusk so strangely and piercingly that they made Matthews think of "battles
far away." This was most so when he listened to them, out of sight of unfriendly eyes, from
his own garden. Above the extraordinary rumor that drifted to him through the arches of the
bridge he heard the wailing of pipes, raucous blasts of cow horns, the thumping of drums; while
dogs barked incessantly, and all night long the caravans of Mesopotamia jingled to and fro.
Then the cannon would thunder out its climax, and the city would fall anew under the spell
of the sun.

The moon of those Arabian nights was nearing its first quarter and Matthews was waiting for
it to become bright enough for him to fulfill his true duty as a sightseer by riding to the
mounds of Susa, when Dizful treated Matthews to fresh discoveries as to what an unspoiled town
may contain. It contained, Abbas informed him with some mystery after one of his prolonged
visits to the bazaar, another firengi. This firengi's servant, moreover, had given Abbas explicit
directions as to the whereabouts of the firengi's house, in order that Abbas might give due
warning, as is the custom of the country, of a call from Matthews. Whereat Matthews made the
surprising announcement that he had not come to Dizful to call on firengis. The chief charm
of Dizful for him, as a matter of fact, was that there he felt himself free of the social obligations
under which he had lain rather longer than he liked. But if Abbas was able to resign himself
to this new proof of the eccentricity of his master, the unknown firengi apparently was not.
At all events, Matthews soon made another discovery as to the possibilities of Dizful. An evening
or two later, as he loitered on the bridge watching a string of loaded camels, a respectable-looking
old gentleman in a black aba addressed him in French. French in Dizful! And it appeared that
this remarkable Elamite was a Jew, who had picked up in Baghdad the idiom of Paris! He went
on to describe himself as the "agent" of a distinguished foreign resident, who, the linguistic
old gentleman gave Matthews to understand, languished for a sight of the new-comer, and was
unable to understand why he had not already been favored with a call. His pain was the deeper
because the newcomer had recently enjoyed the hospitality of this distinguished foreign resident
on a little yacht on the river.

"The unmitigated bounder!" exclaimed Matthews, unable to deliver himself in French of that
sentiment, and turning upon the stupefied old gentleman a rude Anglo-Saxon back. "He has cheek
enough for anything."

He had enough, at any rate, to knock the next afternoon, unannounced, on Matthews' gate, to
follow Matthews' servant into the house without waiting to hear whether Matthews would receive
him, to present himself at the door of the dim underground serdab where Matthews lounged in
his pajamas till it should be cool enough to go out, to make Matthews the most ceremonious
of bows, and to give that young man a half-amused, half-annoyed consciousness of being put
at his ease. The advantage of position, Matthews had good reason to feel, was with himself.
He knew more about the bounder than the bounder thought, and it was not he who had knocked
at the bounder's gate. Yet the sound of that knock, pealing muffled through the hot silence,
had been distinctly welcome. Nor could our incipient connoisseur of rum towns pretend that
the sight of Magin bowing in the doorway was wholly unwelcome, so long had he been stewing
there in the sun by himself. What annoyed him, what amused him, what in spite of himself impressed
him, was to see how the bounder ignored advantages of position. Matthews had forgotten, too,
what an imposing individual the bounder really was. And measuring his tall figure, listening
to his deep voice, looking at his light eyes and his two sinister scars and the big shaved
dome of a head which he this time uncovered, our cool enough young man wondered whether there
might be something more than fantastic about this navigator of strange waters. It was rather
odd, at all events, how he kept bobbing up, and what a power he had of quickening--what? A
school-boyish sense of the romantic? Or mere vulgar curiosity? For he suddenly found himself
aware, Guy Matthews, that what he knew about his visitor was less than what he desired to know.

The visitor made no haste, however, to volunteer any information. Nor did he make of Matthews
any but the most perfunctory inquiries.

"And Monsieur--What was his name? Your Frenchman?" he continued.

"Gaston. He's not my Frenchman, though," replied Matthews. "He went back long ago."

"Oh!" uttered Magin. He declined the refreshments which Abbas at that point produced, even
to the cigarette Matthews offered him. He merely glanced at the make. Then he examined, with
a flicker of amusement in his eyes, the bare white-washed room. A runnel of water trickled
across it in a stone channel that widened in the centre into a shallow pool. "A bit of a lark,
eh? I remember that mot of yours, Mr. Matthews. To sit steaming, or perhaps I should say dreaming,
in a sort of Turkish bath in the bottom of Elam while over there in Europe--"

"Is there anything new?" asked Matthews, recognizing his caller's habit of finishing a sentence
with a gesture. "Archdukes and that sort of thing don't seem to matter much in Dizful. I have
even lost track of the date."

"I would not have thought an Englishman so--dolce far niente," said Magin. "It is perhaps because
we archæologists feed on dates! I happen to recollect, though, that we first met on the eighteenth
of July. And to-day, if you would like to know, is Saturday, the first of August, 1914." The
flicker of amusement in his eyes became something more inscrutable. "But there is a telegraph
even in Elam," he went on. "A little news trickles out of it now and then. Don't you ever catch,
perhaps, some echo of the trickle?"

"That's not my idea of a lark," laughed Matthews.

Magin regarded him a moment.

"Well," he conceded, "Europe does take on a new perspective from the point of view of Susa.
I see you are a philosopher, sitting amidst the ruins of empires and wisely preferring the
trickle of your fountain to the trickle of the telegraph. If Austria falls to pieces, if Serbia
reaches the Adriatic, what is that to us? Nothing but a story that in Elam has been told too
often to have any novelty! Eh?"

"Why," asked Matthews, quickly, "is that on already?"

Magin looked at him again a moment before answering.

"Not yet! But why," he added, "do you say already?"

His voice had a curious rumble in the dim stone room. Matthews wondered whether it were because
the acoustic properties of a serdab in Dizful differ from those of a galley on the Karun, or
whether there really were something new about him.

"Why, it's bound to come sooner or later, isn't it? If it's true that all the way from Nish
to Ragusa those chaps speak the same language and belong to the same race, one can hardly blame
them for wanting to do what the Italians and the Germans have already done. And, as a philosopher
sitting amidst the ruins of empires, wouldn't you say yourself that Austria has bitten off
rather more than she can chew?"

"Very likely I should." Magin took a cigar out of his pocket, snipped off the end with a patent
cutter, lighted it, and regarded the smoke with a growing look of amusement. "But," he went
on, "as a philosopher sitting amidst the ruins of empires, I would hardly confine that observation
to Austria-Hungary. For instance, I have heard"--and his look of amusement verged on a smile--"of
an island in the Atlantic Ocean not much larger than the land of Elam, an island of rains and
fogs whose people, feeling the need of a little more sunlight perhaps, or of pin-money and
elbow-room, sailed away and conquered for themselves two entire continents, as well as a good
part of a third. I have also heard that the inhabitants of this island, not content with killing
and enslaving so many defenseless fellow-creatures, or with picking up any lesser island, cape,
or bay that happened to suit their fancy, took it upon themselves to govern several hundred
million unwilling individuals of all colors and religions in other parts of the world. And,
having thus procured both sunlight and elbow-room, those enterprising islanders assumed a virtuous
air and pushed the high cries--as our friend Gaston would say--if any of their neighbors ever
showed the slightest symptom of following their very successful example. Have you ever heard
of such an island? And would you not say--as a philosopher sitting amidst the ruins of empires--that
it had also bitten off rather more than it could chew?"

Matthews, facing the question and the now open smile, felt that he wanted to be cool, but that
he did not altogether succeed.

"I dare say that two or three hundred years ago we did things we wouldn't do now. Times have
changed in all sorts of ways. But we never set out like a Cæsar or a Napoleon or a Bismarck
to invent an empire. It all came about quite naturally. Anybody else could have done the same.
But nobody else thought of it--at the time. We simply got there first."

"Ah?" Magin smiled more broadly. "It seems to me that I have heard of another island, not so
far from here, which is no more than a pin-point, to be sure, but which happens to be the key
of the Persian Gulf. I have also heard that the Portuguese got there first, as you put it.
But you crushed Portugal, you crushed Spain, you crushed Holland, you crushed France--or you
meant to. And I must say it looks to me as if you would not mind crushing Germany. Why do you
go on building ships, building ships, building ships, always two to Germany's one? Simply that
you and your friends can go on eating up Asia and Africa--and perhaps Germany too!"

Matthews noticed that the elder man ended, at any rate, not quite so coolly as he began.

"Nonsense! The thing's so simple it isn't worth repeating. We have to have more ships than
anybody else because our empire is bigger than anybody else's--and more scattered. As for eating,
it strikes me that Germany has done more of that lately than any one. However, if you know
so much about islands, you must also know how we happened to go into India--or Egypt. In the
beginning it was pure accident. And you know very well that if we left them to-morrow there
would be the devil to pay. Do we get a penny out of them?"

"Oh, no!" laughed Magin. "You administer them purely on altruistic principles, for their own
good and that of the world at large--like the oil-wells of the Karun!"

"Well, since you put it that way," laughed Matthews in turn, "perhaps we do!"

Magin shrugged his shoulders.

"Extraordinary people! Do you really think the rest of the world so stupid? Or it is that the
fog of your island has got into your brains? You always talk about truth as if it were a patented
British invention, yet no one is less willing to call a spade a spade. Look at Cairo, where
you pretend to keep nothing but a consul-general, but where the ruler of the country can't
turn over in bed without his permission. A consul-general! Look at your novels! Look at what
you yourself are saying to me!"

Matthews lighted a pipe over it.

"In a way, of course, you are right," he said. "But I am not sure that we are altogether wrong.
Spades exist, but there's no inherent virtue in talking about them. In fact it's often better
not to mention them at all. There's something very funny about words, you know. They so often
turn out to mean more than you expected."

At that Magin regarded his companion with a new interest.

"I would not have thought you knew that, at your age! But after all, if you will allow me to
say so, it is a woman's point of view. A man ought to say things out--and stick by them. He
is less likely to get into trouble afterward. For example, it would have been not only more
honest but more advantageous for your country if you had openly annexed Egypt in the beginning.
Now where are you? You continually have to explain, and to watch very sharply lest some other
consul-general tell the Khedive to turn over in bed. And since you and the Russians intend
to eat up Persia, why on earth don't you do it frankly, instead of trying not to frighten the
Persians, and talking vaguely about spheres of influence, neutral zones, and what not? I'm
afraid the truth is that you're getting old and fat. What?" He glanced over his cigar at Matthews,
who was regarding the trickle of the water beside them. "Those Russians, they are younger,"
he went on. "They have still to be reckoned with. And they aren't so squeamish, either in novels
or in life. Look at what they have done in their 'sphere.' They have roads, they have Cossacks,
they have the Shah under their thumb. And whenever they choose they shut the Baghdad train
against your caravans--yours, with whom they have an understanding! A famous understanding!
You don't even understand how to make the most of your own sphere. You have had the Karun in
your hands for three hundred years, and what have you done with it? Why, in heaven's name,
didn't you blast out that rock at Ahwaz long ago? Why haven't you made a proper road to Isfahan?
Why don't you build that railroad to Khorremabad that you are always talking about, and finish
it before the Germans get to Baghdad? Ah! If they had been here in your place you would have seen!"

"It strikes me," retorted Matthews, with less coolness than he had yet shown, "that you are
here already--from what the Father of the Swords told me." And he looked straight at the man
who had told him that an Englishman couldn't call a spade a spade. But he saw anew how that
man could ignore an advantage of position.

Magin returned the look--frankly, humorously, quizzically. Then he said:

"You remind me, by the way, of a question I came to ask you. Would you object to telling me
what you are up to here?"

"What am I up to?" queried Matthews, in astonishment. The cheek of the bounder was really beyond
everything! "What do you mean?"

Magin smiled.

"I am not an Englishman. I mean what I say."

"No you're not!" Matthews threw back at him. "No Englishman would try to pass himself off for
a Brazilian."

Magin smiled again.

"Nor would a German jump too hastily at conclusions. If I told you I was from Brazil, I spoke
the truth. I was born there, as were many Englishmen I know. That makes them very little less
English, and it has perhaps made me more German. Who knows? As a philosopher sitting with you
amidst the ruins of empires I am at least inclined to believe that we take our mother country
more seriously than you do yours! But to return to our point: what are you doing here?"

"I'm attending to my business. Which seems to me more than you are doing, Mr. Magin."

Matthews noticed, from the reverberation of the room, that his voice must have been unnecessarily
loud. He busied himself with the bowl of his pipe. As for Magin, he got up and began walking
to and fro, drawing at his cigar. The red of it showed how much darker the room had been growing.
It increased, too, the curious effect of his eyes. They looked like two empty holes in a mask.

"Eh, too bad!" sighed the visitor at last. "You disappoint me. Do you know? You are, of course,
much younger than I; but you made me hope that you were perhaps--how shall I put it?--a spirit
of the first class. I hoped that without padding, without rancor, like true philosophers, we
might exchange our points of view. However--Since it suits you to stand on your dignity, I
must say that I am very distinctly attending to my business. And I am obliged to add that it
does not help my business, Mr. Matthews, to have you sitting so mysteriously in Dizful--and
refusing to call on me, but occasionally calling on nomad chiefs. I confess that you don't
look to me like a spy. Spies are generally older men than you, more cooked, as Gaston would
say, more fluent in languages. It does not seem to me, either, that even an English spy would
go about his affairs quite as you have done. Still, I regret to have to repeat that I dislike
your idea of a lark. And not only because you upset nomad chiefs. You upset other people as
well. You might even end up by upsetting yourself."

"Who the devil are you?" demanded Matthews, hotly. "The Emperor of Elam?"

"Ha! I see you are acquainted with the excellent Adolf Ganz!" laughed Magin. "No," he went
on in another tone. "His viceroy, perhaps. But as I was saying, it does not suit me to have
you stopping here. I can see, however, that you have reason to be surprised, possibly annoyed,
at my telling you so. I am willing to be reasonable about it. How much do you want--for the
expenses of your going away?"

Matthews could hardly believe his ears. He got up in turn.

"What in hell do you mean by that?"

"I am sorry, Mr. Matthews," answered the other, slowly, "that my knowledge of your language
does not permit me to make myself clear to you. Perhaps you will understand me better if I
quote from yourself. I got here first. Did you ever put your foot into this country until two
weeks ago? Did your countrymen ever trouble themselves about it, even after Layard showed them
the way? No! They expressly left it outside of their famous 'sphere,' in that famous neutral
zone. And all these centuries it has been lying here in the sun, asleep, forgotten, deserted,
lost, given over to nomads and to lions--until I came. I am the first European since Alexander
the Great who has seen what it might be. It is not so impossible that I might open again those
choked-up canals which once made these burnt plains a paradise. In those mountains I have found--what
I have found. What right have you to interfere with me, who are only out for a lark? Or what
right have your countrymen? They have already, as you so gracefully express it, bitten off
so much more than they can chew. The Gulf, the Karun, the oil-wells--they are yours. Take them.
But Baghdad is ours: if not today, then tomorrow. And if you will exercise that logical process
of which your British mind appears to be not altogether destitute, you can hardly help seeing
that this part of your famous neutral zone, if not the whole of it, falls into the sphere of
Baghdad. You know, too, that we do things more thoroughly than you. Therefore I must very respectfully
but very firmly ask you, at your very earliest convenience, to leave Dizful. I am quite willing
to believe, however, that your interference with my arrangements was accidental. And I dislike
to put you to any unnecessary trouble. So I shall be happy to compensate you, in marks, tomans,
or pounds sterling, for any disappointment you may feel in bringing this particular lark to
an end. Do you now understand me? How much do you want?"

He perceived, Guy Matthews, that his lark had indeed taken an unexpected turn. He was destined,
far sooner than he dreamed, to be asked of life, and to answer, questions even more direct
than this. But until now life had chosen to confront him with no problem more pressing than
one of cricket or hunting. He was therefore troubled by an unwonted confusion of feelings.
For he felt that his ordinary vocabulary--made up of such substantives as lark, cheek, and
bounder, and the comprehensive adjective "rum"--fell short of coping with this extraordinary
speech. He even felt that he might possibly have answered in a different way, but for that
unspeakable offer of money. And the rumble of Magin's bass in the dark stone room somehow threw
a light on the melancholy land without, somehow gave him a dim sense that he did not answer
for himself alone--that he answered for the tradition of Layard and Rawlinson and Morier and
Sherley, of Clive and Kitchener, of Drake and Raleigh and Nelson, of all the adventurous young
men of that beloved foggy island at which this pseudo-Brazilian jeered.

"When I first met you in the river, Mr. Magin," he said, quietly, "I confess I did not realize
how much of the spoils of Susa you were carrying away in your chests. And I didn't take your
gold anklet as a bribe, though I didn't take you for too much of a gentleman in offering it
to me. But all I have to say now is that I shall stay in Dizful as long as I please--and that
you had better clear out of this house unless you want me to kick you out."

"Heroics, eh? You obstinate little fool! I could choke you with one hand!"

"You'd better try!" shouted Matthews.

He started in spite of himself when a muffled boom suddenly answered him, jarring even the
sunken walls of the room. Then he remembered that voice of the drowsing city, bursting out
with the pent-up brew of the day.

"Ah!" exclaimed Magin strangely--"The cannon speaks at last! You will hear, beside your fountain,
what it has to say. That, at any rate, you will perhaps understand--you and the people of your
island." He stopped a moment. "But," he went on, "if some fasting dervish knocks you on the
head with his mace, or sticks his knife into your back, don't say I didn't warn you!"

And the echo of his receding stamp in the corridor drowned for a moment the trickle of the
invisible water.

V

The destiny of some men lies coiled within them, invisible as the blood of their hearts or
the stuff of their will, working darkly, day by day and year after year, for their glory or
for their destruction. The destiny of other men is an accident, a god from the machine or an
enemy in ambush. Such was the destiny of Guy Matthews, as it was of how many other unsuspecting
young men of his time. It would have been inconceivable to him, as he stood in his dark stone
room listening to Magin's receding stamp, that anything could make him do what Magin demanded.
Yet something did it--the last drop of the strange essence Dizful had been brewing for him.

The letter that accomplished this miracle came to him by the hand of a Bakhtiari from Meidan-i-Naft.
It said very little. It said so little, and that little so briefly, that Matthews, still preoccupied
with his own quarrel, at first saw no reason why a stupid war on the Continent, and the consequent
impossibility of telegraphing home except by way of India, should affect the oil-works, or
why his friends should put him in the position of showing Magin the white feather. But as he
turned over the Bakhtiari's scrap of paper the meaning of it grew, in the light of the very
circumstances that made him hesitate, so portentously that he sent Abbas for horses. And before
the Ramazan gun boomed again he was well on his way back to Meidan-i-Naft.

There was something unreal to him about that night ride eastward across the dusty moonlit plain.
He never forgot that night. The unexpectedness of it was only a part of the unreality. What
pulled him up short was a new quality in the general unexpectedness of life. Life had always
been, like the trip from which he was returning, more or less of a lark. Whereas it suddenly
appeared that life might, perhaps, be very little of a lark. So far as he had ever pictured
life to himself he had seen it as an extension of his ordered English countryside, beset by
no hazard more searching than a hawthorne hedge. But the plain across which he rode gave him
a new picture of it, lighted romantically enough by the moon, yet offering a rider magnificent
chances to break his neck in some invisible nullah, if not to be waylaid by marauding Lurs
or lions. It even began to come to this not too articulate young man that romance and reality
might be the same thing, romance being what happens to the other fellow and reality being what
happens to you. He looked up at the moon of war that had been heralded to him by cannon and
tried to imagine what, under that same moon far away in Europe, was happening to the other
fellow. For it was entirely on the cards that it might also happen to him, Guy Matthews, who
had gone up the Ab-i-Diz for a lark! That his experience had an extraordinary air of having
happened to some one else, as he went back in his mind to his cruise on the river, his meeting
with the barge, his first glimpse of Dizful, the interlude of Bala Bala, the return to Dizful,
the cannon, Magin. Magin! He was extraordinary enough, in all conscience, as Matthews tried
to piece together, under his romantic-realistic moon, the various unrelated fragments his memory
produced of that individual, connoisseur of Greek kylixes and Lur nose-jewels, quoter of Scripture
and secret agent.

The bounder must have known, as he sat smoking his cigar and ironizing on the ruins of empires,
that the safe and settled little world to which they both belonged was already in a blaze.
Of course he had known it--and he had said nothing about it! But not least extraordinary was
the way the bounder, whom after all Matthews had only seen twice, seemed to color the whole
adventure. In fact, he had been the first speck in the blue, the forerunner--if Matthews had
only seen it--of the more epic adventure into which he was so quickly to be caught.

At Shuster he broke his journey. There were still thirty miles to do, and fresh horses were
to be hired--of some fasting charvadar who would never consent in Ramazan, Matthews very well
knew, to start for Meidan-i-Naft under the terrific August sun. But he was not ungrateful for
a chance to rest. He discovered in himself, too, a sudden interest in all the trickle of the
telegraph. And he was anxious to pick up what news he could from the few Europeans in the town.
Moreover, he needed to see Ganz about the replenishing of his money-bag; for not the lightest
item of the traveler's pack in Persia is his load of silver krans.

At the telegraph office Matthews ran into Ganz himself. The Swiss was a short, fair, faded
man, not too neat about his white clothes, with a pensive mustache and an ambiguous blue eye
that lighted at sight of the young Englishman. The light, however, was not one to illuminate
Matthews' darkness in the matter of news. What news trickled out of the local wire was very
meager indeed. The Austrians were shelling Belgrade, the Germans, the Russians, and the French
had gone in. That was all. No, not quite all; for the bank-rate in England had suddenly jumped
sky-high--higher, at any rate, than it had ever jumped before. And even Shuster felt the distant
commotion, in that the bazaar had already seen fit to put up the price of sugar and petroleum.
Not that Shuster showed any outward sign of commotion as the two threaded their way toward
Ganz's house. The deserted streets reminded Matthews strangely of Dizful. What was stranger
was to find how they reminded him of a chapter that is closed. He hardly noticed the blank
walls, the archways of brick and tile, the tall badgirs, even the filth and smells. But strangest
was it to listen to the hot silence, to look up at the brilliant stripe of blue between the
adobe walls, while over there--!

The portentous uncertainty of what might be over there made his answers to Ganz's questions
about his journey curt and abstracted. He gave no explanation of his failure to see the celebration
at Bala Bala and the ruins of Susa, which Ganz supposed to be the chief objects of his excursion.
Yet he found himself looking with a new eye at the anomalous exile whom the Father of Swords
called the prince among the merchants of Shuster, noting the faded untidy air as he had never
noted it before, wondering why a man should bury himself in such a hole as this. Was one now,
he speculated, to look at everybody all over again? He was not the kind of man, Ganz, to interest
the Guy Matthews who had gone to Dizful. But it was the Guy Matthews who came back from Dizful
who didn't like Ganz's name or Ganz's good enough accent. Nevertheless he yielded to Ganz's
insistence, when they reached the office and the money-bag had been restored to its normal
portliness, that the traveler should step into the house to rest and cool off.

"Do come!" urged the Swiss. "I so seldom see a civilized being. And I have a new piano!" he
threw in as an added inducement. "Do you play?"

He had no parlor tricks, he told Ganz, and he told himself that he wanted to get on. But Ganz
had been very decent to him, after all. And he began to perceive that he himself was extremely
tired. So he followed Ganz through the cloister of the pool to the court where the great basin
glittered in the sun, below the pillared portico.

"Who is that?" exclaimed Ganz suddenly. "What a tone, eh? And what a touch!"

Matthews heard from Ganz's private quarters a welling of music so different from the pipes
and cow-horns of Dizful that it gave him a sudden stab of homesickness.

"I say," he said, brightening, "could it be any of the fellows from Meidan-i-Naft?"

The ambiguous blue eye brightened too.

"Perhaps! It is the river music from Rheingold. But listen," Ganz added with a smile. "There
are sharks among the Rhine maidens!"

They went on, up the steps of the portico, to the door which Ganz opened softly, stepping aside
for his visitor to pass in. The room was so dark, after the blinding light of the court, that
Matthews saw nothing at first. He stepped forward eagerly, feeling his way among Ganz's tables
and chairs toward the end of the room from which the music came. They gave him, the cluttering
tables and chairs, after the empty rooms he had been living in, a sharper renewal of his stab.
And even a piano--! It made him think of Kipling and the Song of the Banjo:

    "I am memory and torment--I am Town!
    I am all that ever went with evening dress!"

But what mute inglorious Paderewski of the restricted circle he had moved in for the past months
was capable of such parlor tricks as this? Then, suddenly, he saw. He saw, swaying back and
forth against the dark background of the piano, a domed shaven head that made him stop short--that
head full of so many astounding things! He saw, traveling swiftly up and down the keys, rising
above them to an extravagant height and pouncing down upon them again, those predatory hands
that had pounced on the spoils of Susa! They began, in a moment, to flutter lightly over the
upper end of the keyboard. It was extraordinary what a ripple poured as if out of those hands.
Magin himself bent over to listen to the ripple, partly showing his face as he turned his ear
to the keys. He showed, too, in the lessening gloom, a smile Matthews had never seen before,
more extraordinary than anything. Yet even as Matthews watched it, in his stupefaction, the
smile changed, broadened, hardened. And Magin, sitting up straight again with his back to the
room, began to execute a series of crashing chords.

After several minutes he stopped and swung around on the piano-stool. Ganz clapped his hands,
shouting "Bis! Bis!" At that Magin rose, bowed elaborately, and kissed his hands right and
left. He ended by pulling up a table-cover near him, gazing intently under the table.

"Have you lost something?" inquired Ganz.

"I seem," answered Magin, "to have lost half my audience. What has become of our elusive English
friend? Am I so unfortunate as to have been unable to satisfy his refined ear? Or can it be
that his emotions were too much for him?"

"He was in a hurry," explained Ganz. "He is just back from Dizful, you know."

"Ah?" uttered Magin. "He is a very curious young man. He is always in a hurry. He was in a
hurry the first time I had the pleasure of meeting him. He was in such a hurry at Bala Bala
that he didn't wait to see the celebration which you told me he went to see. He also left Dizful
in a surprising hurry, from what I hear. I happen to know that the telegraph had nothing to
do with it. I can only conclude that some one frightened him away. Where do you suppose he
hurries to? And do you think he will arrive in time?"

Ganz opened his mouth; but if he intended to say something, he decided instead to draw his
hand across his spare jaw. However, he did speak after all.

"I notice that you at least do not hurry, Majesty! Do you fiddle while Rome burns?"

"Ha!" laughed Magin. "It is not Rome that burns! And I notice, Mr. Ganz, that you seem to be
of a forgetful as well as of an inquiring disposition. I would have been in Mohamera long ago
if it had not been for your son of Papa, with his interest in unspoiled towns. I will thank
you to issue no more letters to the Father of Swords without remembering me. Do you wish to
enrich the already overstocked British Museum at my expense? But I do not mind revealing to
you that I am now really on my way to Mohamera."

"H'm," let out Ganz slowly. "My dear fellow, haven't you heard that there is a war in Europe?"

"I must confess, my good Ganz, that I have. But what has Europe to do with Mohamera?"

"God knows," said Ganz. "I should think, however, since you are so far from the Gulf, that
you would prefer the route of Baghdad--now that French and Russian cruisers are seeking whom
they may devour."

"You forget, Mr. Ganz, that I am so fortunate as to possess a number of valuable objects of
virtue. I would think twice before attempting to carry those objects of virtue through the
country of our excellent friends the Beni Lam Arabs!"

Ganz laughed.

"Your objects of virtue could very well be left with me. What if the English should go into
the war?"

"The English? Go into the war? Never fear! This is not their affair. And if it were, what could
they do? Sail their famous ships up the Rhine and the Elbe? Besides, that treacherous memory
of yours seems to fail you again. This is Persia, not England."

"Perhaps," answered Ganz. "But the English are very funny people. There is a rumor, you know,
of pourparlers. What if you were to sail down to the gulf and some little midshipman were to
fire a shot across your bow?"

"Ah, bah! I am a neutral! And Britannia is a fat old woman! Also a rich one, who doesn't put
her hand into her pocket to please her neighbors. Besides, I have a little affair with the
Sheikh of Mohamera--objects of virtue, indigo, who knows what? As you know, I am a versatile
man." And swinging around on his stool, Magin began to play again.

"But even fat old women sometimes know how to bite," objected Ganz.

"Not when their teeth have dropped out," Magin threw over his shoulder--"or when strong young
men plug their jaws!"

VI

Two days later, or not quite three days later, the galley and the motor-boat whose accidental
encounter brought about the events of this narrative met again. This second meeting took place
in the Karun, as before, but at a point some fifty or sixty miles below Bund-i-Kir. And now
the moon, not the sun, cast its paler glitter between the high dark banks of the stream. It
was a keen-eared young Lur who first heard afar the pant of the mysterious jinni. Before he
or his companions descried the motor-boat, however, Gaston, rounding a sharp curve above the
island of Umm-un-Nakhl, caught sight of the sweeps of the barge flashing in the moonlight.
The unexpected view of that flash was not disagreeable to Gaston. For, as Gaston put it to
himself, he was sad--despite the efforts of his friend, the telegraph operator at Ahwaz, to
cheer him up. It is true that the operator, who was Irish and a man of heart, had accorded
him but a limited amount of cheer, together with hard words not a few. Recalling them, Gaston
picked up a knife that lay on the seat beside him--an odd curved knife of the country, in a
leather sheath. There is no reason why I should conceal the fact that this knife was a gift
from Gaston's Bakhtiari henchman, who had presented it to Gaston, with immense solemnity, on
hearing that there was a war in Firengistan and that the young men of the oil works were going
to it. What had become of that type of a Bakhtiari, Gaston wondered? Then, spying the flash
of those remembered oars, he bethought him of the seigneur of a Brazilian whose hospitable
yacht, he had reason to know, was not destitute of cheer.

When he was near enough the barge to make out the shadow of the high beak on the moonlit water
he cut off the motor. The sweeps forthwith ceased to flash. Gaston then called out the customary
salutation. It was answered, as before, by the deep voice of the Brazilian. He stood at the
rail of the barge as the motor-boat glided alongside.

"Ah, mon vieux, you are alone this time?" said Magin genially. "Where are the others?"

"I do not figure to myself," answered Gaston, "that you derange yourself to inquire for my
sacred devil of a Bakhtiari, who has taken the key of the fields. As for Monsieur Guy, the
Englishman you saw the other time, whose name does not pronounce itself, he has gone to the
war. I just took him and three others to Ahwaz, where they meet more of their friends and all
go together on the steamer to Mohamera."

"Really! And did you hear any news at Ahwaz?"

"The latest is that England has declared war."

"Tiens!" exclaimed Magin. His voice was extraordinarily loud and deep in the stillness of the
river. It impressed Gaston, who sat looking up at the dark figure in front of the ghostly Lurs.
What types, with their black hats of a theater! He hoped the absence of M'sieu Guy and the
Brazilian's evident surprise would not cloud the latter's hospitality. He was accordingly gratified
to hear the Brazilian say, after a moment: "And they tell us that madness is not catching!
But we, at least, have not lost our heads. Eh? To prove it, Monsieur Gaston, will you not come
aboard a moment, if you are not in too much of a hurry, and drink a little glass with me?"

Gaston needed no urging. In a trice he had tied his boat to the barge and was on the deck.
The agreeable Brazilian was not too much of a seigneur to shake his hand in welcome, or to
lead him into the cabin where a young Lur was in the act of lighting candles.

"It is so hot, and so many strange beasts fly about this river," Magin explained, "that I usually
prefer to travel without a light. But we must see the way to our mouths! What will you have?
Beer? Bordeaux? Champagne?"

Gaston considered this serious question with attention.

"Since Monsieur has the goodness to inquire, if Monsieur has any of that fine champagne I tasted
before--"

"Ah yes! Certainly." And he gave a rapid order to the Lur. Then he stood silent, his eyes fixed
on the reed portière. Gaston was more impressed than ever as he stood too, béret in hand, looking
around the little saloon, so oddly, yet so comfortably fitted out with rugs and skins. Presently
the Lur reappeared through the reed portière, which aroused the Brazilian from his abstraction.
He filled the two glasses himself, waving his attendant out of the cabin, and handed one to
Gaston. The other he raised in the air, bowing to his guest. "To the victor!" he said. "And
sit down, won't you? There is more than one glass in that bottle."

Gaston was enchanted to sit down and to sip another cognac.

"But, Monsieur," he exclaimed, looking about again, "you travel like an emperor!"

"Ho!" laughed Magin, with a quick glance at Gaston. "I am well enough here. But there is one
difficulty." He looked at his glass, holding it up to the light. "I travel too slowly."

Gaston smiled.

"In Persia, who cares?"

"Well, it happens that at this moment I do. I have affairs at Mohamera. And in this tub it
will take me three days more at the best--without considering that I shall have to wait till
daylight to get through the rocks at Ahwaz." He lowered his glass and looked back at Gaston.
"Tell me: Why shouldn't you take me down, ahead of my tub? Eh? Or to Sablah, if Mohamera is
too far? It would not delay you so much, after all. You can tell them any story you like at
Sheleilieh. Otherwise I am sure we can make a satisfactory arrangement." He put his hand suggestively
into his pocket.

Gaston considered it between sips. It really was not much to do for this uncle of America who
had been so amiable. And others had suddenly become so much less amiable than their wont. Moreover
that Bakhtiari--he might repent when he heard the motor again. At any rate one could say that
one had waited for him. And the Brazilian would no doubt show a gratitude so handsome that
one could afford to be a little independent. If those on the steamer asked any questions when
the motor-boat passed, surely the Brazilian, who was more of a seigneur than any employee of
an oil company, would know how to answer.

"Allons! Why not?" he said aloud.

"Bravo!" cried the Brazilian, withdrawing his hand from his pocket. "Take that as part of my
ticket. And excuse me a moment while I make arrangements."

He disappeared through the reed portière, leaving Gaston to admire five shining napoleons.
It gave him an odd sensation to see, after so long, those coins of his country. When Magin
finally came back, it was through the inner door.

"Tell me: how much can you carry?" he asked. "I have four boxes I would like to take with me,
besides a few small things. These fools might wreck themselves at Ahwaz and lose everything
in the river. It would annoy me very much--after all the trouble I have had to collect my objects
of virtue! Besides, the tub will get through more easily without them. Come in and see."

"Mon Dieu!" exclaimed Gaston, scratching his head, when he saw. "My boat won't get through
more easily with them, especially at night." He looked curiously around the cozy stateroom.

"But it will take them, eh? If necessary, we can land them at Ahwaz and have them carried around
the rapids."

The thing took some manoeuvering; but the Lurs, with the help of much fluent profanity from
the master, finally accomplished it without sinking the motor-boat. Gaston, sitting at the
wheel to guard his precious engine against some clumsiness of the black-hatted mountaineers,
looked on with humorous astonishment at this turn of affairs. He was destined, it appeared,
to be disappointed in his hope of cheer. That cognac was really very good--if only one had
had more of it. Still, one at least had company now; and he was not the man to be insensible
to the fine champagne of the unexpected. Nor was he unconscious that of many baroque scenes
at which he had assisted, this was not the least baroque.

When the fourth chest had gingerly been lowered into place, Magin vanished again. Presently
he reappeared, followed by his majordomo, to whom he gave instructions in a low voice. Then
he stepped into the stern of the boat. The majordomo, taking two portmanteaux and a rug from
the Lurs behind him, handed them down to Gaston. Having disposed of them, Gaston stood up,
his eyes on the Lurs who crowded the rail.

"Well, my friend," said Magin gaily, "for whom are you waiting? We shall yet have opportunities
to admire the romantic scenery of the Karun!"

"Ah! Monsieur takes no--other object of virtue with him?"

"Have you so much room?" laughed Magin. "It is a good thing there is no wind to-night. Go ahead."

Gaston cast off, backed a few feet, reversed, and described a wide circle around the stern
of the barge. It made a strange picture in the moonlight, with its black-curved beak and its
spectral crew. They shifted to the other rail as the motor-boat came about, watching silently.

"To your oars!" shouted Magin at them. "Row, sons of burnt fathers! Will you have me wait a
month for you at Mohamera?"

They scattered to their places, and Gaston caught the renewed flash of the sweeps as he turned
to steer for the bend. It was a good thing, he told himself, that there was no wind to-night.
The gunwale was nearer the water than he or the boat cared for. She made nothing like her usual
speed. However, he said nothing. Neither did Magin--until the dark shadow of Umm-un-Nakhl divided
the glitter in front of them.

"Take the narrower channel," he ordered then. And when they were in it he added: "Stop, will
you, and steer in there, under the shadow of the shore? I think we would better fortify ourselves
for the work of the night. I at least did not forget the cognac, among my other objects of virtue."

They fortified themselves accordingly, the Brazilian producing cigars as well. He certainly
was an original, thought Gaston, now hopeful of experiencing actual cheer. That originality
proved itself anew when, after a much longer period of refreshment than would suit most gentlemen
in a hurry, the familiar flash became visible in the river behind them.

"Now be quiet," commanded the extraordinary uncle of America. "Whatever happens we mustn't
let them hear us. If they take this channel, we will slip down, and run part way up the other.
We shall give them a little surprise."

Nearer and nearer came the flash, which suddenly went out behind the island. A recurrent splash
succeeded it, and a wild melancholy singing. The singing and the recurrent splash grew louder,
filled the silence of the river, grew softer; and presently the receding oars flashed again,
below the island. But not until the last glint was lost in the shimmer of the water, the last
sound had died out of the summer night, did the Brazilian begin to unfold his surprise.

"Que diable allait-on faire dans cette galère!" he exclaimed. "It's the first time I ever knew
them to do the right thing! Let us drink one more little glass to the good fortune of their
voyage. And here, by the way, is another part of my ticket." He handed Gaston five more napoleons.
"But now, my friend, we have some work. I see we shall never get anywhere with all this load.
Let us therefore consign our objects of virtue to the safe keeping of the river. He will guard
them better than anybody. Is it deep enough here?"

It was deep enough. But what an affair, getting those heavy chests overboard! The last one
nearly pulled Magin in with it. One of the clamps caught in his clothes, threw him against
the side of the boat, and jerked something after it into the water. He sat down, swearing softly
to himself, to catch his breath and investigate the damage.

"It was only my revolver," he announced. "And we have no need of that, since we are not going
to the war! Now, my good Gaston, I have changed my mind. We will not go down the river, after
all. We will go up."

Gaston, this time, stared at him.

"Up? But, Monsieur, the barge--"

"What is my barge to you, dear Gaston? Besides, it is no longer mine. It now belongs to the
Sheikh of Mohamera--with whatever objects of virtue it still contains. He has long teased me
for it. And none of them can read the note they are carrying to him! Didn't I tell you I was
going to give them a little surprise? Well, there it is. I am not a man, you see, to be tied
to objects of virtue. Which reminds me: where are my portmanteaux?"

"Here, on the tank."

"Fi! And you a chauffeur! Give them to me. I will arrange myself a little. Did you ever hear,
Gaston, of that interesting incident?"

"Monsieur is too strong for me," replied Gaston, cryptically. He took off his cap, wiped his
face, and sat down at the wheel.

"If a man is not strong, what is he?" rejoined Magin. "But you will not find this cigar too
strong," he added amicably.

Gaston did not. What he found strong was the originality of his passenger--and the way that
cognac failed, in spite of its friendly warmth, to cheer him. For he kept thinking of that
absurd Bakhtiari, and of the telegraph operator, and of M'sieu Guy, and the others, as he sped
northward on the silent moonlit river.

"This is very well, eh, Gaston?" uttered the Brazilian at last. "We march better without our
objects of virtue." Gaston felt that he smiled as he lay smoking on his rug in the bottom of
the boat. "But tell me," he went on presently, "how is it, if I may ask, that you didn't happen
to go in the steamer too, with your Monsieur Guy? You do not look to me either old or incapable."

There it was, the same question, which really seemed to need no answer at first, but which
somehow became harder to answer every time! Why was it? And how could it spoil so good a cognac?

"How is it?" repeated Gaston. "It is, Monsieur, that France is a great lady who does not derange
herself for a simple vagabond like Gaston, or about whose liaisons or quarrels it is not for
Gaston to concern himself. This great lady has naturally not asked my opinion about this quarrel.
But if she had, I would have told her that it is very stupid for everybody in Europe to begin
shooting at each other. Why? Simply because it pleases ces messieurs the Austrians to treat
ces messieurs the Serbs de haut en bas! What have I to do with that? Besides, this great lady
is very far away, and by the time I arrive she will have arranged her affair. In the meantime
there are many others, younger and more capable than I, whose express business it is to arrange
such affairs. Will one piou-piou more or less change the result of one battle? Of course not!
And if I should lose my hand or my head, who would buy me another? Not France! I have seen
a little what France does in such cases. My own father left his leg at Gravelotte, together
with his job and my mother's peace. I have seen what happened to her, and how it is that I
am a vagabond--about whom France has never troubled herself." He shouted it over his shoulder,
above the noise of the motor, with an increasing loudness. "Also," he went on, "I have duties
not so far away as France. Up there, at Sheleilieh, there will perhaps be next month a little
Gaston. If I go away, who will feed him? I have not the courage of Monsieur, who separates
himself so easily from objects of virtue. Voilà!"

Magin said nothing for a moment. Then:

"Courage, yes! One needs a little courage in this curious world." There was a pause, as the
boat cut around a dark curve. "But do not think, my poor Gaston, that it is I who blame you.
On the contrary, I find you very reasonable--more reasonable than many ministers of state.
If others in Europe had been able to express themselves like you, Gaston, Monsieur Guy and
his friends would not have run away so suddenly. It takes courage, too, not to run after them."
He made a sound, as if changing his position, and presently he began to sing softly to himself.

"Monsieur would make a fortune in the café-chantant," commented Gaston. He began to feel, at
last, after the favorable reception of his speech, a little cheered. He felt cooler, too, in
this quiet rushing moonlight of the river. "What is it that Monsieur sings? It seems to me
that I have heard that air."

"Very likely you have, Gaston. It is a little song of sentiment, sung by all the sentimental
young ladies of the world. He who wrote it, however, was far from sentimental. He was a fellow
countryman of mine--and of the late Abraham!--who loved your country so much that he lived
in it and died in it."

Gaston listened with admiration, astonishment, and perplexity. It suddenly came back to him
how this original Brazilian had sworn when the chest caught his clothes.

"But, Monsieur, I thought--Are you, then, a German?"

Magin, after a second, laughed.

"But Gaston, am I then an enemy?"

Gaston examined him in the moonlight.

"Well," he answered slowly, "if your country and mine are at war--"

"What has that to do with us, as you just now so truly said? You have found that your country's
quarrel was not cause enough for you to leave Persia, and so have I. Voilà tout!" He examined
Gaston in turn. "But I thought you knew all the time. Such is fame! I flattered myself that
your Monsieur Guy would leave no one untold. Whereas he has left us the pleasure of a situation
more piquant, after all, than I supposed. We enjoy the magnificent moonlight of the south,
we admire a historic river under its most successful aspect, and we do not exalt ourselves
because our countrymen, many hundreds of miles away, have lost their heads." He smiled over
the piquancy of the situation. "Strength is good," he went on in his impressive bass, "and
courage is better. But reason, as you so justly say, is best of all. For which reason," he
added, "allow me to recommend to you, my dear Gaston, that you look a little where you are
steering."

Gaston looked. But he discovered that his moment of cheer had been all too brief. A piquant
situation, indeed! The piquancy of that situation somehow complicated everything more darkly
than before. If there were reasons why he should not go away with the others, as they had all
taken it for granted that he would do, was that a reason why he, Gaston, whose father had lost
a leg at Gravelotte, should do this masquerading German a service? All the German's amiability
and originality did not change that. Perhaps, indeed, that explained the originality and amiability.
The German, at any rate, did not seem to trouble himself about it. When Gaston next looked
over his shoulder, Magin was lying flat on his back in the bottom of the boat, with his hands
under his head and his eyes closed. And so he continued to lie, silent and apparently asleep,
while his troubled companion, hand on wheel and béret on ear, steered through the waning moonlight
of the Karun.

VII

The moon was but a ghost of itself, and a faint rose was beginning to tinge the pallor of the
sky behind the Bakhtiari mountains, when the motor began to miss fire. Gaston, stifling an
exclamation, cut it off, unscrewed the cap of the tank, and measured the gasolene. Then he
stepped softly forward to the place in the bow where he kept his reserve cans. Magin, roused
by the stopping of the boat, sat up, stretching.

"Tiens!" he exclaimed. "Here we are!" He looked about at the high clay banks enclosing the
tawny basin of the four rivers. In front of him the konar trees of Bund-i-Kir showed their
dark green. At the right, on top of the bluff of the eastern shore, a solitary peasant stood
white against the sky. Near him a couple of oxen on an inclined plane worked the rude mechanism
that drew up water to the fields. The creak of the pulleys and the splash of the dripping goatskins
only made more intense the early morning silence. "Do you remember, Gaston?" asked Magin. "It
was here we first had the good fortune to meet--not quite three weeks ago."

"I remember," answered Gaston, keeping his eye on the mouth of the tank he was filling, "that
I was the one who wished you peace, Monsieur; and that no one asked who you were or where you
were going."

Magin yawned.

"Well, you seem to have satisfied yourself now on those important points. I might add, however,
for your further information, that I think I shall not go to Bund-i-Kir, which looks too peaceful
to disturb at this matinal hour, but there--on the western shore of the Ab-i-Shuteit. And that
reminds me. I still have to pay you the rest of my ticket."

He reached forward and laid a little pile of gold on Gaston's seat. Gaston, watching out of
the corner of his eye as he poured gasolene, saw that there were more than five napoleons in
that pile. There were at least ten.

"What would you say, Monsieur," he asked slowly, emptying his tin, "if I were to take you instead
to Sheleilieh--where there are still a few of the English?"

"I would say, my good Gaston, that you had more courage than I thought. By the way," he went
on casually, "what is this?"

He reached forward again toward Gaston's seat, where lay the Bakhtiari's present. Gaston dropped
his tin and made a snatch at it. But Magin was too quick for him. He retreated to his place
at the stern of the boat, where he drew the knife out of its sheath.

"Sharp, too!" he commented, with a smile at Gaston. "And my revolver is gone!"

Gaston, very pale, stepped to his seat.

"That, Monsieur, was given me by my Bakhtiari brother-in-law--to take to the war. When he found
I had not the courage to go, he ran away from me."

"But you thought there might be more than one way to make war, eh? Well, I at least am not
an Apache. Perhaps the sharks will know what to do with it." The blade glittered in the brightening
air and splashed out of sight. And Magin, folding his arms, smiled again at Gaston. "Another
object of virtue for the safe custody of the Karun!"

"But not all!" cried Gaston thickly, seizing the little pile of gold beside him and flinging
it after the knife.

Magin's smile broadened.

"Have you not forgotten something, Gaston?"

"But certainly not, Monsieur," he replied, putting his hand into his pocket. The next moment
a second shower of gold caught the light. And where the little circles of ripples widened in
the river, a sharp fin suddenly cut the muddy water.

"Oho! Mr. Shark loses no time!" cried Magin. He stopped smiling, and turned back to Gaston.
"But we do. Allow me to say, my friend, that you show yourself really too romantic. This is
no doubt an excellent comedy which we are playing for the benefit of that gentleman on the
bluff. But even he begins to get tired of it. See? He starts to say his morning prayer. So
be so good as to show a little of the reason which you know how to show, and start for shore.
But first you might do well to screw on the cap of your tank--if you do not mind a little friendly
advice."

Gaston looked around absent-mindedly, and took up the nickel cap. But he suddenly turned back
to Magin.

"You speak too much about friends, Monsieur. I am not your friend. I am your enemy. And I shall
not take you there, to the Ab-i-Shuteit. I shall take you into the Ab-i-Gerger--to Sheleilieh
and the English."

Magin considered him, with a flicker in his lighted eyes.

"You might perhaps have done it if you had not forgotten about your gasolene--And you may yet.
We shall see. But it seems to me, my--enemy!--that you make a miscalculation. Let us suppose
that you take me to Sheleilieh. It is highly improbable, because you no longer have your knife
to assist you. I, it is true, no longer have my revolver to assist me; but I have two arms,
longer and I fancy stronger than yours. However, let us make the supposition. And let us make
the equally improbable supposition that I fall into the hands of the English. What can they
do to me? The worst they can do is to give me free lodging and nourishment till the end of
the war! Whereas you, Gaston--you do not seem to have reflected that life will not be so simple
for you, after this. There is a very unpleasant little word by which they name citizens who
do not respond to their country's call to arms. In other words, Mr. Deserter, you have taken
the road which, in war time, ends between a firing-squad and a stone wall."

Gaston, evidently, had not reflected on that. He stared at his nickel cap, turning it around
in his fingers.

"You see?" continued Magin. "Well then, what about that little Gaston? I do not know what has
suddenly made you so much less reasonable than you were last night; but I, at least, have not
changed. And I see no reason why that little Gaston should be left between two horns of a dilemma.
In fact I see excellent reasons not only why you should take me that short distance to the
shore, but why you should accompany me to Dizful. There I am at home. I am, more than any one
else, emperor. And I need a man like you. I am going to have a car, I am going to have a boat,
I am going to have a place in the sun. There will be many changes in that country after the
war. You will see. It is not so far, either, from here. It is evident that your heart, like
mine, is in this part of the world. So come with me. Eh, Gaston?"

"Heart!" repeated Gaston, with a bitter smile. "It is you who speak of the heart, and of----
But you do not speak of the little surprise with which you might some day regale me, Mr. Enemy!
Nor do you say what you fear--that I might take it into my head to go fishing at Umm-un-Nakhl!"

"Ah bah!" exclaimed Magin impatiently. "However, you are right. I am not like you. I do not
betray my country for a little savage with a jewel in her nose! It is because of that small
difference between us, Gaston, between your people and my people, that you will see such changes
here after the war. But you will not see them unless you accept my offer. After all, what else
can you do?" He left Gaston to take it in as he twirled his metal cap. "There is the sun already,"
Magin added presently. "We shall have a hot journey."

Gaston looked over his shoulder at the quivering rim of gold that surged up behind the Bakhtiari
mountains. How sharp and purple they were, against what a deepening blue! On the bluff the
white-clad peasant stood with his back to the light, his hands folded in front of him, his
head bowed.

"You look tired, Gaston," said Magin pleasantly. "Will you have this cigar?"

"No, thank you," replied Gaston. He felt in his own pockets, however, first for a cigarette
and then for a match. He was indeed tired, so tired that he no longer remembered which pocket
to fumble in or what he held in his hand as he fumbled. Ah, that sacred tank! Then he suddenly
smiled again, looking at Magin. "There is something else I can do!"

"What?" asked Magin as he lay at ease in the stern, enjoying the first perfume of his cigar.
"You can't go back to France, now, and I should hardly advise you to go back to Sheleilieh.
At least until after the war. Then there will be no more English there to ask you troublesome
questions!"

Gaston lighted his cigarette. And, keeping his eyes on Magin, he slowly moved his hand, in
which were both the nickel cap and the still-burning match, toward the mouth of the tank.

"This!" he answered.

Magin watched him. He did not catch the connection at first. He saw it quickly enough, however.
In his pale translucent eyes there was something very like a flare.

"Look out--or we shall go together after all!"

"We shall go together, after all," repeated Gaston. "And here is your place in the sun!"

Magin still watched, as the little flame flickered through the windless air. But he did not move.

"It will go out! And you have not the courage Apache!"

"You will see, Prussian!" The match stopped, at last, above the open hole; but the hand that
held it trembled a little, and so did the strange low voice that said: "This at least I can
do--for that great lady, far away."

The peasant on the bluff, prostrated toward Mecca with his forehead in the dust, was startled
out of his prayer by a roar in the basin below him. There where the trim-white jinn-boat of
the Firengi had been was now a blazing mass of wreckage, out of which came fierce cracklings,
hissings, sounds not to be named. As he stared at it the wreckage fell apart, began to disappear
in a cloud of smoke and steam that lengthened toward the southern gateway of the basin. And
in the turbid water, cut by swift sharks' fins, he saw a sudden bright trail of red, redder
than any fire or sunrise. It paled gradually, the smoke melted after the steam, the current
caught the last charred fragments of wreckage and drew them out of sight.

The peasant watched it all silently, as if waiting for some new magic of the Firengi, from
his high bank of the Karun--that snow-born river bound for distant palms, that had seen so
many generations of the faces of men, so many of the barks to which men trust their hearts,
their hopes, their treasures, as it wound, century after century, from the mountains to the
sea. Then, at last, the peasant folded his hands anew and bowed his head toward Mecca.

THE GAY OLD DOG[9]

[Note 9: Copyright, 1917, by The Metropolitan Magazine Company.

THE KNIGHT'S MOVE[10]

[Note 10: Copyright, 1917, by The Atlantic Monthly Company. Copyright, 1918, by Katharine Fullerton
Gerould.]

BY KATHARINE FULLERTON GEROULD

From The Atlantic Monthly.

I

Havelock the Dane settled himself back in his chair and set his feet firmly on the oaken table.
Chantry let him do it, though some imperceptible inch of his body winced. For the oak of it
was neither fumed nor golden; it was English to its ancient core, and the table had served
in the refectory of monks before Henry VIII decided that monks shocked him. Naturally Chantry
did not want his friends' boots havocking upon it. But more important than to possess the table
was to possess it nonchalantly. He let the big man dig his heel in. Any man but Havelock the
Dane would have known better. But Havelock did as he pleased, and you either gave him up or
bore it. Chantry did not want to give him up.

Chantry was a feminist; a bit of an æsthete but canny at affairs; good-looking, and temperate,
and less hipped on the matter of sex than feminist gentlemen are wont to be. That is to say,
while he vaguely wanted l'homme moyen sensuel to mend his ways, he did not expect him to change
fundamentally. He rather thought the women would manage all that when they got the vote. You
see, he was not a socialist: only a feminist.

Havelock the Dane, on the other hand, was by no means a feminist, but was a socialist. What
probably brought the two men together--apart from their common likableness--was that each,
in his way, refused to "go the whole hog." They sometimes threshed the thing out together,
unable to decide on a programme, but always united at last in their agreement that things were
wrong. Havelock trusted Labor, and Chantry trusted Woman; the point was that neither trusted
men like themselves, with a little money and an inherited code of honor. Havelock wanted his
money taken away from him; Chantry desired his code to be trampled on by innumerable feminine
feet. But each was rather helpless, for both expected these things to be done for them.

Except for this tie of ineffectuality, they had nothing special in common. Havelock's life
had been adventurous in the good old-fashioned sense: the bars down and a deal of wandering.
Chantry had sown so many crops of intellectual wild oats that even the people who came for
subscriptions might be forgiven for thinking him a mental libertine, good for subscriptions
and not much else. Between them, they boxed the compass about once a week. Havelock had more
of what is known as "personality" than Chantry; Chantry more of what is known as "culture."
They dovetailed, on the whole, not badly.

Havelock, this afternoon, was full of a story. Chantry wanted to listen, though he knew that
he could have listened better if Havelock's heel had not been quite so ponderous on the sæcular
oak. He took refuge in a cosmic point of view. That was the only point of view from which Havelock
(it was, by the way, his physical type only that had caused him to be nicknamed the Dane: his
ancestors had come over from England in great discomfort two centuries since), in his blonde
hugeness, became negligible. You had to climb very high to see him small.

"You never did the man justice," Havelock was saying.

"Justice be hanged!" replied Chantry.

"Quite so: the feminist slogan."

"A socialist can't afford to throw stones."

The retorts were spoken sharply, on both sides. Then both men laughed. They had too often had
it out seriously to mind; these little insults were mere convention.

"Get at your story," resumed Chantry. "I suppose there's a woman in it: a nasty cat invented
by your own prejudices. There usually is."

"Never a woman at all. If there were, I shouldn't be asking for your opinion. My opinion, of
course, is merely the rational one. I don't side-step the truth because a little drama gets
in. I am appealing to you because you are the average man who hasn't seen the light. I honestly
want to know what you think. There's a reason."

"What's the reason?"

"I'll tell you that later. Now, I'll tell you the story." Havelock screwed his tawny eyebrows
together for a moment before plunging in. "Humph!" he ejaculated at last. "Much good anybody
is in a case like this--What did you say you thought of Ferguson?"

"I didn't think anything of Ferguson--except that he had a big brain for biology. He was a loss."

"No personal opinion?"

"I never like people who think so well of themselves as all that."

"No opinion about his death?"

"Accidental, as they said, I suppose."

"Oh, 'they said'! It was suicide, I tell you."

"Suicide? Really?" Chantry's brown eyes lighted for an instant. "Oh, poor chap; I'm sorry."

It did not occur to him immediately to ask how Havelock knew. He trusted a plain statement
from Havelock.

"I'm not. Or--yes, I am. I hate to have a man inconsistent."

"It's inconsistent for any one to kill himself. But it's frequently done."

Havelock, hemming and hawing like this, was more nearly a bore than Chantry had ever known him.

"Not for Ferguson."

"Oh, well, never mind Ferguson," Chantry yawned. "Tell me some anecdote out of your tapestried
past."

"I won't."

Havelock dug his heel in harder. Chantry all but told him to take his feet down, but stopped
himself just in time.

"Well, go on, then," he said, "but it doesn't sound interesting. I hate all tales of suicide.
And there isn't even a woman in it," he sighed maliciously.

"Oh, if it comes to that, there is."

"But you said--"

"Not in it exactly, unless you go in for post hoc, propter hoc."

"Oh, drive on." Chantry was pettish.

But at that point Havelock the Dane removed his feet from the refectory table. He will probably
never know why Chantry, just then, began to be amiable.

"Excuse me, Havelock. Of course, whatever drove a man like Ferguson to suicide is interesting.
And I may say he managed it awfully well. Not a hint, anywhere."

"Well, a scientist ought to get something out of it for himself. Ferguson certainly knew how.
Can't you imagine him sitting up there, cocking his hair" (an odd phrase, but Chantry understood),
"and deciding just how to circumvent the coroner? I can."

"Ferguson hadn't much imagination."

"A coroner doesn't take imagination. He takes a little hard, expert knowledge."

"I dare say." But Chantry's mind was wandering through other defiles. "Odd, that he should
have snatched his life out of the very jaws of what-do-you-call-it, once, only to give it up
at last, politely, of his own volition."

"You may well say it." Havelock spoke with more earnestness than he had done. "If you're not
a socialist when I get through with you, Chantry, my boy--"

"Lord, Lord! don't tell me your beastly socialism is mixed up with it all! I never took to
Ferguson, but he was no syndicalist. In life or in death, I'd swear to that."

"Ah, no. If he had been! But all I mean is that, in a properly regulated state, Ferguson's
tragedy would not have occurred."

"So it was a tragedy?"

"He was a loss to the state, God knows."

Had they been speaking of anything less dignified than death and genius, Havelock might have
sounded a little austere and silly. As it was--Chantry bit back, and swallowed, his censure.

"That's why I want to know what you think," went on Havelock, irrelevantly. "Whether your damned
code of honor is worth Ferguson."

"It's not my damned code any more than yours," broke in Chantry.

"Yes, it is. Or, at least, we break it down at different points--theoretically. Actually, we
walk all round it every day to be sure it's intact. Let's be honest."

"Honest as you like, if you'll only come to the point. Whew, but it's hot! Let's have a gin-fizz."

"You aren't serious."

Havelock seemed to try to lash himself into a rage. But he was so big that he could never have
got all of himself into a rage at once. You felt that only part of him was angry--his toes,
perhaps, or his complexion.

Chantry rang for ice and lemon, and took gin, sugar, and a siphon out of a carved cabinet.

"Go slow," he said. He himself was going very slow, with a beautiful crystal decanter which
he set lovingly on the oaken table. "Go slow," he repeated, more easily, when he had set it
down. "I can think just as well with a gin-fizz as without one. And I didn't know Ferguson
well; and I didn't like him at all. I read his books, and I admired him. But he looked like
the devil--the devil, you'll notice, not a devil. With a dash of Charles I by Van Dyck. The
one standing by a horse. As you say, he cocked his hair. It went into little horns, above each
eyebrow. I'm sorry he's lost to the world, but it doesn't get me. He may have been a saint,
for all I know; but there you are--I never cared particularly to know. I am serious. Only,
somehow, it doesn't touch me."

And he proceeded to make use of crushed ice and lemon juice.

"Oh, blow all that," said Havelock the Dane finally, over the top of his glass. "I'm going
to tell you, anyhow. Only I wish you would forget your prejudices. I want an opinion."

"Go on."

Chantry made himself comfortable.

II

"You remember the time when Ferguson didn't go down on the Argentina?"

"I do. Ferguson just wouldn't go down, you know. He'd turn up smiling, without even a chill,
and meanwhile lots of good fellows would be at the bottom of the sea."

"Prejudice again," barked Havelock. "Yet in point of fact, it's perfectly true. And you would
have preferred him to drown."

"I was very glad he was saved." Chantry said it in a stilted manner.

"Why?"

"Because his life was really important to the world."

Chantry might have been distributing tracts. His very voice sounded falsetto.

"Exactly. Well, that is what Ferguson thought."

"How do you know?"

"He told me."

"You must have known him well. Thank heaven, I never did."

Havelock flung out a huge hand. "Oh, get off that ridiculous animal you're riding, Chantry,
and come to the point. You mean you don't think Ferguson should have admitted it?"

Chantry's tone changed. "Well, one doesn't."

The huge hand, clenched into a fist, came down on the table. The crystal bottle was too heavy
to rock, but the glasses jingled and a spoon slid over the edge of its saucer.

"There it is--what I was looking for."

"What were you looking for?" Chantry's wonder was not feigned.

"For your hydra-headed prejudice. Makes me want to play Hercules."

"Oh, drop your metaphors, Havelock. Get into the game. What is it?"

"It's this: that you don't think--or affect not to think--that it's decent for a man to recognize
his own worth."

Chantry did not retort. He dropped his chin on his chest and thought for a moment. Then he
spoke, very quietly and apologetically.

"Well--I don't see you telling another man how wonderful you are. It isn't immoral, it simply
isn't manners. And if Ferguson boasted to you that he was saved when so many went down, it
was worse than bad manners. He ought to have been kicked for it. It's the kind of phenomenal
luck that it would have been decent to regret."

Havelock set his massive lips firmly together. You could not say that he pursed that Cyclopean
mouth.

"Ferguson did not boast. He merely told me. He was, I think, a modest man."

Incredulity beyond any power of laughter to express settled on Chantry's countenance. "Modest?
And he told you?"

"The whole thing." Havelock's voice was heavy enough for tragedy. "Listen. Don't interrupt
me once. Ferguson told me that, when the explosion came, he looked round--considered, for fully
a minute, his duty. He never lost control of himself once, he said, and I believe him. The
Argentina was a small boat, making a winter passage. There were very few cabin passengers.
No second cabin, but plenty of steerage. She sailed, you remember, from Naples. He had been
doing some work, some very important work, in the Aquarium. The only other person of consequence--I
am speaking in the most literal and un-snobbish sense--in the first cabin, was Benson. No"
(with a lifted hand), "don't interrupt me. Benson, as we all know, was an international figure.
But Benson was getting old. His son could be trusted to carry on the House of Benson. In fact,
every one suspected that the son had become more important than the old man. He had put through
the last big loan while his father was taking a rest-cure in Italy. That is how Benson père
happened to be on the Argentina. The newspapers never sufficiently accounted for that. A private
deck on the Schrecklichkeit would have been more his size. Ferguson made it out: the old man
got wild, suddenly, at the notion of their putting anything through without him. He trusted
his gouty bones to the Argentina."

"Sounds plausible, but--" Chantry broke in.

"If you interrupt again," said Havelock, "I'll hit you, with all the strength I've got."

Chantry grunted. You had to take Havelock the Dane as you found him.

"Ferguson saw the whole thing clear. Old Benson had just gone into the smoking-room. Ferguson
was on the deck outside his own stateroom. The only person on board who could possibly be considered
as important as Ferguson was Benson; and he had good reason to believe that every one would
get on well enough without Benson. He had just time, then, to put on a life-preserver, melt
into his stateroom, and get a little pile of notes, very important ones, and drop into a boat.
No, don't interrupt. I know what you are going to say. 'Women and children.' What do you suppose
a lot of Neapolitan peasants meant to Ferguson--or to you and me, either? He didn't do anything
outrageous; he just dropped into a boat. As a result, we had the big book a year later. No"
(again crushing down a gesture of Chantry's), "don't say anything about the instincts of a
gentleman. If Ferguson hadn't been perfectly cool, his instincts would have governed him. He
would have dashed about trying to save people, and then met the waves with a noble gesture.
He had time to be reasonable; not instinctive. The world was the gainer, as he jolly well knew
it would be--or where would have been the reasonableness? I don't believe Ferguson cared a
hang about keeping his individual machine going for its own sake. But he knew he was a valuable
person. His mind was a Kohinoor among minds. It stands to reason that you save the Kohinoor
and let the little stones go. Well, that's not the story. Only I wanted to get that out of
the way first, or the story wouldn't have meant anything. Did you wish," he finished graciously,
"to ask a question?"

Chantry made a violent gesture of denial. "Ask a question about a hog like that? God forbid!"

"Um-m-m." Havelock seemed to muse within himself. "You will admit that if a jury of impartial
men of sense could have sat, just then, on that slanting deck, they would have agreed that
Ferguson's life was worth more to the world than all the rest of the boiling put together?"

"Yes, but--"

"Well, there wasn't any jury. Ferguson had to be it. I am perfectly sure that if there had
been a super-Ferguson on board, our Ferguson would have turned his hand to saving him first.
In fact, I honestly believe he was sorry there hadn't been a super-Ferguson. For he had all
the instincts of a gentleman; and it's never a pleasant job making your reason inhibit your
instincts. You can't look at this thing perfectly straight, probably. But if you can't, who
can? I don't happen to want an enlightened opinion; I've got one, right here at home. You don't
care about the State: you want to put it into white petticoats and see it cross a muddy street."

"I don't wonder the socialists won't have anything to do with you."

"Because I'm not a feminist? I know. Just as the feminists won't have anything to do with you
because you're so reactionary. We're both out of it. Fifty years ago; either of us could have
been a real prophet, for the price of a hall and cleaning the rotten eggs off our clothes.
Now we're too timid for any use. But this is a digression."

"Distinctly. Is there anything more about Ferguson?"

"I should say there was. About a year ago, he became engaged. She's a very nice girl, and I
am sure you never heard of her. The engagement wasn't to be announced until just before the
marriage, for family reasons of some sort--cockering the older generation somehow. I've forgotten;
it's not important. But they would have been married by now, if Ferguson hadn't stepped out."

"You seem to have been very intimate with Ferguson."

"He talked to me once--just once. The girl was a distant connection of my own. I think that
was why. Now I've got some more things to tell you. I've let you interrupt a good lot, and
if you're through, I'd like to start in on the next lap. It isn't easy for me to tell this
thing in bits. It's an effort."

Havelock the Dane set down his second emptied glass and drew a long breath. He proceeded, with
quickened pace.

III

"He didn't see the girl very often. She lives at some little distance. He was busy,--you know
how he worked,--and she was chained at home, more or less. Occasionally he slipped away for
a week-end, to see her. One time--the last time, about two months ago--he managed to get in
a whole week. It was as near happiness as Ferguson ever got, I imagine; for they were able
to fix a date. Good heaven, how he loved that girl! Just before he went, he told me of the
engagement. I barely knew her, but, as I said, she's some sort of kin. Then, after he came
back, he sent for me to come and see him. I didn't like his cheek, but I went as though I had
been a laboratory boy. I'm not like you. Ferguson always did get me. He wanted the greatest
good of the greatest number. Nothing petty about him. He was a big man.

"I went, as I say. And Ferguson told me, the very first thing, that the engagement was off.
He began by cocking his hair a good deal. But he almost lost control of himself. He didn't
cock it long: he ruffled it instead, with his hands. I thought he was in a queer state, for
he seemed to want to give me, with his beautiful scientific precision--as if he'd been preparing
a slide--the details of a country walk he and she had taken the day before he left. It began
with grade-crossings, and I simply couldn't imagine what he was getting at. It wasn't his business
to fight grade-crossings--though they might be a very pretty symbol for the kind of thing he
was fighting, tooth and nail, all the time. I couldn't seem to see it, at first; but finally
it came out. There was a grade-crossing, with a 'Look out for the Engine' sign, and there was
a tow-headed infant in rags. They had noticed the infant before. It had bandy legs and granulated
eyelids, and seemed to be dumb. It had started them off on eugenics. She was very keen on the
subject; Ferguson, being a big scientist, had some reserves. It was a real argument.

"Then everything happened at once. Tow-head with the sore eyes rocked onto the track simultaneously
with the whistle. They were about fifty yards off. Ferguson sprinted back down the hill, the
girl screaming pointlessly meanwhile. There was just time--you'll have to take my word for
this; Ferguson explained it all to me in the most meticulous detail, but I can't repeat that
masterpiece of exposition--for Ferguson to decide. To decide again, you understand, precisely
as he had decided on the Argentina. Rotten luck, wasn't it? He could just have flung tow-head
out of the way by getting under the engine himself. He grabbed for tow-head, but he didn't
roll onto the track. So tow-head was killed. If he had got there ten seconds earlier, he could
have done the trick. He was ten seconds too late to save both Ferguson and tow-head. So--once
more--he saved Ferguson. Do you get the situation?"

"I should say I did!" shouted Chantry. "Twice in a man's life--good Lord! I hope you walked
out of his house at that point."

"I didn't. I was very much interested. And by the way, Chantry, if Ferguson had given his life
for tow-head, you would have been the first man to write a pleasant little article for some
damned highbrow review, to prove that it was utterly wrong that Ferguson should have exchanged
his life for that of a little Polish defective. I can even see you talking about the greatest
good of the greatest number. You would have loved the paradox of it; the mistaken martyr, self-preservation
the greatest altruism, and all the rest of it. But because Ferguson did exactly what you would
have said in your article that he ought to have done, you are in a state of virtuous chill."

"I should have written no such article. I don't see how you can be so flippant."

"Flippant--I? Have I the figure of a flippant man? Can't you see--honestly, now, can't you
see?--that it was a hideous misfortune for that situation to come to Ferguson twice? Can't
you see that it was about as hard luck as a man ever had? Look at it just once from his point
of view."

"I can't," said Chantry frankly. "I can understand a man's being a coward, saving his own skin
because he wants to. But to save his own skin on principle--humph! Talk of paradoxes: there's
one for you. There's not a principle on earth that tells you to save your own life at some
one's else expense. If he thought it was principle, he was the bigger defective of the two.
Of course it would have been a pity; of course we should all have regretted it; but there's
not a human being in this town, high or low, who wouldn't have applauded, with whatever regret--who
wouldn't have said he did the only thing a self-respecting man could do. Of course it's a shame;
but that is the only way the race has ever got on: by the strong, because they were strong,
going under for the weak, because they were weak. Otherwise we'd all be living, to this day,
in hell."

"I know; I know." Havelock's voice was touched with emotion. "That's the convention--invented
by individualists, for individualists. All sorts of people would see it that way, still. But
you've got more sense than most; and I will make you at least see the other point of view.
Suppose Ferguson to have been a good Catholic--or a soldier in the ranks. If his confessor
or his commanding officer had told him to save his own skin, you'd consider Ferguson justified;
you might even consider the priest or the officer justified. The one thing you can't stand
is the man's giving himself those orders. But let's not argue over it now--let's go back to
the story. I'll make you 'get' Ferguson, anyhow--even if I can't make him 'get' you.

"Well, here comes in the girl."

"And you said there was no girl in it!"

Chantry could not resist that. He believed that Havelock's assertion had been made only because
he didn't want the girl in it--resented her being there.

"There isn't, as I see it," replied Havelock the Dane quietly. "From my point of view, the
story is over. Ferguson's decision: that is the whole thing--made more interesting, more valuable,
because the repetition of the thing proves beyond a doubt that he acted on principle, not on
impulse. If he had flung himself into the life-boat because he was a coward, he would have
been ashamed of it; and whatever he might have done afterwards, he would never have done that
thing again. He would have been sensitive: not saving his own life would have turned into an
obsession with him. But there is left, I admit, the murder. And murders always take the public.
So I'll give you the murder--though it throws no light on Ferguson, who is the only thing in
the whole accursed affair that really counts."

"The murder? I don't see--unless you mean the murdering of the tow-headed child."

"I mean the murder of Ferguson by the girl he loved."

"You said 'suicide' a little while ago," panted Chantry.

"Technically, yes. She was a hundred miles away when it happened. But she did it just the same.
Oh, I suppose I've got to tell you, as Ferguson told me."

"Did he tell you he was going to kill himself?" Chantry's voice was sharp.

"He did not. Ferguson wasn't a fool. But it was plain as day to me after it happened, that
he had done it himself."

"How--"

"I'm telling you this, am I not? Let me tell it, then. The thing happened in no time, of course.
The girl got over screaming, and ran down to the track, frightened out of her wits. The train
managed to stop, about twice its own length farther down, round a bend in the track, and the
conductor and brakeman came running back. The mother came out of her hovel, carrying twins.
The--the--thing was on the track, across the rails. It was a beastly mess, and Ferguson got
the girl away; set her down to cry in a pasture, and then went back and helped out, and gave
his testimony, and left money, a lot of it, with the mother, and--all the rest. You can imagine
it. No one there considered that Ferguson ought to have saved the child; no one but Ferguson
dreamed that he could have. Indeed, an ordinary man, in Ferguson's place, wouldn't have supposed
he could. It was only that brain, working like lightning, working as no plain man's could,
that had made the calculation and seen. There were no preliminary seconds lost in surprise
or shock, you see. Ferguson's mind hadn't been jarred from its pace for an instant. The thing
had happened too quickly for any one--except Ferguson--to understand what was going on. Therefore
he ought to have laid that super-normal brain under the wheels, of course!

"Ferguson was so sane, himself, that he couldn't understand, even after he had been engaged
six months, our little everyday madnesses. It never occurred to him, when he got back to the
girl and she began all sorts of hysterical questions, not to answer them straight. It was by
way of describing the event simply, that he informed her that he would just have had time to
pull the creature out, but not enough to pull himself back afterwards. Ferguson was used to
calculating things in millionths of an inch; she wasn't. I dare say the single second that
had given Ferguson time to turn round in his mind, she conceived of as a minute, at least.
It would have taken her a week to turn round in her own mind, no doubt--a month, a year, perhaps.
How do I know? But she got the essential fact: that Ferguson had made a choice. Then she rounded
on him. It would have killed her to lose him, but she would rather have lost him than to see
him standing before her, etc., etc. Ferguson quoted a lot of her talk straight to me, and I
can remember it; but you needn't ask me to soil my mouth with it. 'And half an hour before,
she had been saying with a good deal of heat that that little runt ought never to have been
born, and that if we had decent laws it never would have been allowed to live." Ferguson said
that to me, with a kind of bewilderment. You see, he had made the mistake of taking that little
fool seriously. Well, he loved her. You can't go below that: that's rock-bottom. Ferguson couldn't
dig any deeper down for his way out. There was no deeper down.

"Apparently Ferguson still thought he could argue it out with her. She so believed in eugenics,
you see--a very radical, compared with Ferguson. It was she who had had no doubt about tow-head.
And the love-part of it seemed to him fixed: it didn't occur to him that that was debatable.
So he stuck to something that could be discussed. Then--and this was his moment of exceeding
folly--he caught at the old episode of the Argentina. That had nothing to do with her present
state of shock. She had seen tow-head; but she hadn't seen the sprinkled Mediterranean. And
she had accepted that. At least, she had spoken of his survival as though it had been one of
the few times when God had done precisely the right thing. So he took that to explain with.
The fool! The reasonable fool!

"Then--oh, then she went wild. (Yet she must have known there were a thousand chances on the
Argentina for him to throw his life away, and precious few to save it.) She backed up against
a tree and stretched her arms out like this"--Havelock made a clumsy stage-gesture of aversion
from Chantry, the villain. "And for an instant he thought she was afraid of a Jersey cow that
had come up to take part in the discussion. So he threw a twig at its nose."

IV

Chantry's wonder grew, swelled, and burst.

"Do you mean to say that that safety-deposit vault of a Ferguson told you all this?"

"As I am telling it to you. Only much more detail, of course--and much, much faster. It wasn't
like a story at all: it was like--like a hemorrhage. I didn't interrupt him as you've been
interrupting me. Well, the upshot of it was that she spurned him quite in the grand manner.
She found the opposites of all the nice things she had been saying for six months, and said
them. And Ferguson--your cocky Ferguson--stood and listened, until she had talked herself out,
and then went away. He never saw her again; and when he sent for me, he had made up his mind
that she never intended to take any of it back. So he stepped out, I tell you."

"As hard hit as that," Chantry mused.

"Just as hard hit as that. Ferguson had had no previous affairs; she was very literally the
one woman; and he managed, at forty, to combine the illusions of the boy of twenty and the
man of sixty."

"But if he thought he was so precious to the world, wasn't it more than ever his duty to preserve
his existence? He could see other people die in his place, but he couldn't see himself bucking
up against a broken heart. Isn't that what the strong man does? Lives out his life when he
doesn't at all like the look of it? Say what you like, he was a coward, Havelock--at the last,
anyhow."

"I won't ask for your opinion just yet, thank you. Perhaps if Ferguson had been sure he would
ever do good work again, he wouldn't have taken himself off. That might have held him. He might
have stuck by on the chance. But I doubt it. Don't you see? He loved the girl too much."

"Thought he couldn't live without her," snorted Chantry.

"Oh, no--not that. But if she was right, he was the meanest skunk alive. He owed the world
at least two deaths, so to speak. The only approach you can make to dying twice is to die in
your prime, of your own volition." Havelock spoke very slowly. "At least, that's the way I've
worked it out. He didn't say so. He was careful as a cat."

"You think"--Chantry leaned forward, very eager at last--"that he decided she was right? That
I'm right--that we're all of us right?"

Havelock the Dane bowed his head in his huge hands. "No. If you ask me, I think he kept his
own opinion untarnished to the end. When I told him I thought he was right, he just nodded,
as if one took that for granted. But it didn't matter to him. I am pretty sure that he cared
only what she thought."

"If he didn't agree with her? And if she had treated him like a criminal? He must have despised
her, in that case."

"He never said one word of her--bar quoting some of her words--that wasn't utterly gentle.
You could see that he loved her with his whole soul. And--it's my belief--he gave her the benefit
of the doubt. In killing himself, he acted on the hypothesis that she had been right. It was
the one thing he could do for her."

"But if no one except you thinks it was suicide--and you can't prove it--"

"Oh, he had to take that chance--the chance of her never knowing--or else create a scandal.
And that would have been very hard on her and on his family. But there were straws she could
easily clutch at--as I have clutched at them. The perfect order in which everything happened
to be left--even the last notes he had made. His laboratory was a scientist's paradise, they
tell me. And the will, made after she threw him over, leaving everything to her. Not a letter
unanswered, all little bills paid, and little debts liquidated. He came as near suggesting
it as he could, in decency. But I dare say she will never guess it."

"Then what did it profit him?"

"It didn't profit him, in your sense. He took a very long chance on her guessing. That wasn't
what concerned him."

"I hope she will never guess, anyhow. It would ruin her life, to no good end."

"Oh, no." Havelock was firm. "I doubt if she would take it that way. If she grasped it at all,
she'd believe he thought her right. And if he thought her right, of course he wouldn't want
to live, would he? She would never think he killed himself simply for love of her."

"Why not?"

"Well, she wouldn't? She wouldn't be able to conceive of Ferguson's killing himself merely
for that--with his notions about survival."

"As he did."

"As he did--and didn't."

"Ah, she'd scarcely refine on it as you are doing, Havelock. You're amazing."

"Well, he certainly never expected her to know that he did it himself. If he had been the sort
of weakling that dies because he can't have a particular woman, he'd have been also the sort
of weakling that leaves a letter explaining."

"What then did he die for? You'll have to explain to me. Not because he couldn't have her;
not because he felt guilty. Why, then? You haven't left him a motive."

"Oh, haven't I? The most beautiful motive in the whole world, my dear fellow. A motive that
puts all your little simple motives in the shade."

"Well, what?"

"Don't you see? Why, I told you. He simply assumed, for all practical purposes, that she had
been right. He gave himself the fate he knew she considered him to deserve. He preferred--loving
her as he did--to do what she would have had him do. He knew she was wrong; but he knew also
that she was made that way, that she would never be right. And he took her for what she was,
and loved her as she was. His love--don't you see?--was too big. He couldn't revolt from her:
she had the whole of him--except, perhaps, his excellent judgment. He couldn't drag about a
life which she felt that way about. He destroyed it, as he would have destroyed anything she
found loathsome. He was merely justifying himself to his love. He couldn't hope she would know.
Nor, I believe, could he have lied to her. That is, he couldn't have admitted in words that
she was right, when he felt her so absolutely wrong; but he could make that magnificent silent
act of faith."

Chantry still held out. "I don't believe he did it. I hold with the coroner."

"I don't. He came as near telling me as he could without making me an accessory before the
fact. There were none of the loose ends that the most orderly man would leave if he died suddenly.
Take my word for it, old man."

A long look passed between them. Each seemed to be trying to find out with his eyes something
that words had not helped him to.

Finally Chantry protested once more. "But Ferguson couldn't love like that."

Havelock the Dane laid one hand on the arm of Chantry's chair and spoke sternly. "He not only
could, but did. And there I am a better authority than you. Think what you please, but I will
not have that fact challenged. Perhaps you could count up on your fingers the women who are
loved like that; but, anyhow, she was. My second cousin once removed, damn her!" He ended with
a vicious twang.

"And now"--Havelock rose--"I'd like your opinion."

"About what?"

"Well, can't you see the beautiful sanity of Ferguson?"

"No, I can't," snapped Chantry. "I think he was wrong, both in the beginning and in the end.
But I will admit he was not a coward. I respect him, but I do not think, at any point, he was
right--except perhaps in 'doing' the coroner."

"That settles it, then," said Havelock. And he started towards the door.

"Settles what, in heaven's name?"

"What I came to have settled. I shan't tell her. If I could have got one other decent citizen--and
I confess you were my only chance--to agree with me that Ferguson was right,--right about his
fellow passengers on the Argentina, right about tow-head on the track,--I'd have gone to her,
I think. I'd rather like to ruin her life, if I could."

A great conviction approached Chantry just then. He felt the rush of it through his brain.

"No," he cried. "Ferguson loved her too much. He wouldn't like that--not as you'd put it to her."

Havelock thought a moment. "No," he said in turn; but his "no" was very humble. "He wouldn't.
I shall never do it. But, my God, how I wanted to!"

"And I'll tell you another thing, too." Chantry's tone was curious. "You may agree with Ferguson
all you like; you may admire him as much as you say; but you, Havelock, would never have done
what he did. Not even"--he lifted a hand against interruption--"if you knew you had the brain
you think Ferguson had. You'd have been at the bottom of the sea, or under the engine wheels,
and you know it."

He folded his arms with a hint of truculence.

But Havelock the Dane, to Chantry's surprise, was meek. "Yes," he said, "I know it. Now let
me out of here."

"Well, then,"--Chantry's voice rang out triumphant,--"what does that prove?"

"Prove?" Havelock's great fist crashed down on the table. "It proves that Ferguson's a better
man than either of us. I can think straight, but he had the sand to act straight. You haven't
even the sand to think straight. You and your reactionary rot! The world's moving, Chantry.
Ferguson was ahead of it, beckoning. You're an ant that got caught in the machinery, I shouldn't
wonder."

"Oh, stow the rhetoric! We simply don't agree. It's happened before." Chantry laughed scornfully.
"I tell you I respect him; but God Almighty wouldn't make me agree with him."

"You're too mediæval by half," Havelock mused. "Now, Ferguson was a knight of the future--a
knight of Humanity."

"Don't!" shouted Chantry. His nerves were beginning to feel the strain. "Leave chivalry out
of it. The Argentina business may or may not have been wisdom, but it certainly wasn't cricket."

"No," said Havelock. "Chess, rather. The game where chance hasn't a show--the game of the intelligent
future. That very irregular and disconcerting move of his.... And he got taken, you might say.
She's an irresponsible beast, your queen."

"Drop it, will you!" Then Chantry pulled himself together, a little ashamed. "It's fearfully
late. Better stop and dine."

"No, thanks." The big man opened the door of the room and rested a foot on the threshold. "I
feel like dining with some one who appreciates Ferguson."

"I don't know where you'll find him." Chantry smiled and shook hands.

"Oh, I carry him about with me. Good-night," said Havelock the Dane.

A JURY OF HER PEERS[11]

[Note 11: Copyright, 1917, by The Crowell Publishing Company. Copyright, 1918, by Susan Glaspell
Cook.]

BY SUSAN GLASPELL

From Every Week

When Martha Hale opened the storm-door and got a cut of the north wind, she ran back for her
big woolen scarf. As she hurriedly wound that round her head her eye made a scandalized sweep
of her kitchen. It was no ordinary thing that called her away--it was probably farther from
ordinary than anything that had ever happened in Dickson County. But what her eye took in was
that her kitchen was in no shape for leaving: her bread all ready for mixing, half the flour
sifted and half unsifted.

She hated to see things half done; but she had been at that when the team from town stopped
to get Mr. Hale, and then the sheriff came running in to say his wife wished Mrs. Hale would
come too--adding, with a grin, that he guessed she was getting scarey and wanted another woman
along. So she had dropped everything right where it was.

"Martha!" now came her husband's impatient voice. "Don't keep folks waiting out here in the cold."

She again opened the storm-door, and this time joined the three men and the one woman waiting
for her in the big two-seated buggy.

After she had the robes tucked around her she took another look at the woman who sat beside
her on the back seat. She had met Mrs. Peters the year before at the county fair, and the thing
she remembered about her was that she didn't seem like a sheriff's wife. She was small and
thin and didn't have a strong voice. Mrs. Gorman, sheriff's wife before Gorman went out and
Peters came in, had a voice that somehow seemed to be backing up the law with every word. But
if Mrs. Peters didn't look like a sheriff's wife, Peters made it up in looking like a sheriff.
He was to a dot the kind of man who could get himself elected sheriff--a heavy man with a big
voice, who was particularly genial with the law-abiding, as if to make it plain that he knew
the difference between criminals and non-criminals. And right there it came into Mrs. Hale's
mind, with a stab, that this man who was so pleasant and lively with all of them was going
to the Wrights' now as a sheriff.

"The country's not very pleasant this time of year," Mrs. Peters at last ventured, as if she
felt they ought to be talking as well as the men.

Mrs. Hale scarcely finished her reply, for they had gone up a little hill and could see the
Wright place now, and seeing it did not make her feel like talking. It looked very lonesome
this cold March morning. It had always been a lonesome-looking place. It was down in a hollow,
and the poplar trees around it were lonesome-looking trees. The men were looking at it and
talking about what had happened. The county attorney was bending to one side of the buggy,
and kept looking steadily at the place as they drew up to it.

"I'm glad you came with me," Mrs. Peters said nervously, as the two women were about to follow
the men in through the kitchen door.

Even after she had her foot on the door-step, her hand on the knob, Martha Hale had a moment
of feeling she could not cross that threshold. And the reason it seemed she couldn't cross
it now was simply because she hadn't crossed it before. Time and time again it had been in
her mind, "I ought to go over and see Minnie Foster"--she still thought of her as Minnie Foster,
though for twenty years she had been Mrs. Wright. And then there was always something to do
and Minnie Foster would go from her mind. But now she could come.

* * *

The men went over to the stove. The women stood close together by the door. Young Henderson,
the county attorney, turned around and said, "Come up to the fire, ladies."

Mrs. Peters took a step forward, then stopped. "I'm not--cold," she said.

And so the two women stood by the door, at first not even so much as looking around the kitchen.

The men talked for a minute about what a good thing it was the sheriff had sent his deputy
out that morning to make a fire for them, and then Sheriff Peters stepped back from the stove,
unbuttoned his outer coat, and leaned his hands on the kitchen table in a way that seemed to
mark the beginning of official business. "Now, Mr. Hale," he said in a sort of semi-official
voice, "before we move things about, you tell Mr. Henderson just what it was you saw when you
came here yesterday morning."

The county attorney was looking around the kitchen.

"By the way," he said, "has anything been moved?" He turned to the sheriff. "Are things just
as you left them yesterday?"

Peters looked from cupboard to sink; from that to a small worn rocker a little to one side
of the kitchen table.

"It's just the same."

"Somebody should have been left here yesterday," said the county attorney.

"Oh--yesterday," returned the sheriff, with a little gesture as of yesterday having been more
than he could bear to think of. "When I had to send Frank to Morris Center for that man who
went crazy--let me tell you, I had my hands full yesterday. I knew you could get back from
Omaha by to-day, George, and as long as I went over everything here myself--"

"Well, Mr. Hale," said the county attorney, in a way of letting what was past and gone go,
"tell just what happened when you came here yesterday morning."

Mrs. Hale, still leaning against the door, had that sinking feeling of the mother whose child
is about to speak a piece. Lewis often wandered along and got things mixed up in a story. She
hoped he would tell this straight and plain, and not say unnecessary things that would just
make things harder for Minnie Foster. He didn't begin at once, and she noticed that he looked
queer--as if standing in that kitchen and having to tell what he had seen there yesterday morning
made him almost sick.

"Yes, Mr. Hale?" the county attorney reminded.

"Harry and I had started to town with a load of potatoes," Mrs. Hale's husband began.

Harry was Mrs. Hale's oldest boy. He wasn't with them now, for the very good reason that those
potatoes never got to town yesterday and he was taking them this morning, so he hadn't been
home when the sheriff stopped to say he wanted Mr. Hale to come over to the Wright place and
tell the county attorney his story there, where he could point it all out. With all Mrs. Hale's
other emotions came the fear now that maybe Harry wasn't dressed warm enough--they hadn't any
of them realized how that north wind did bite.

"We come along this road," Hale was going on, with a motion of his hand to the road over which
they had just come, "and as we got in sight of the house I says to Harry, 'I'm goin' to see
if I can't get John Wright to take a telephone.' You see," he explained to Henderson, "unless
I can get somebody to go in with me they won't come out this branch road except for a price
I can't pay. I'd spoke to Wright about it once before; but he put me off, saying folks talked
too much anyway, and all he asked was peace and quiet--guess you know about how much he talked
himself. But I thought maybe if I went to the house and talked about it before his wife, and
said all the women-folks liked the telephones, and that in this lonesome stretch of road it
would be a good thing--well, I said to Harry that that was what I was going to say--though
I said at the same time that I didn't know as what his wife wanted made much difference to John--"

Now, there he was!--saying things he didn't need to say. Mrs. Hale tried to catch her husband's
eye, but fortunately the county attorney interrupted with:

"Let's talk about that a little later, Mr. Hale. I do want to talk about that, but I'm anxious
now to get along to just what happened when you got here."

When he began this time, it was very deliberately and carefully:

"I didn't see or hear anything. I knocked at the door. And still it was all quiet inside. I
knew they must be up--it was past eight o'clock. So I knocked again, louder, and I thought
I heard somebody say, 'Come in.' I wasn't sure--I'm not sure yet. But I opened the door--this
door," jerking a hand toward the door by which the two women stood, "and there, in that rocker"--pointing
to it--"sat Mrs. Wright."

Every one in the kitchen looked at the rocker. It came into Mrs. Hale's mind that that rocker
didn't look in the least like Minnie Foster--the Minnie Foster of twenty years before. It was
a dingy red, with wooden rungs up the back, and the middle rung was gone, and the chair sagged
to one side.

"How did she--look?" the county attorney was inquiring.

"Well," said Hale, "she looked--queer."

"How do you mean--queer?"

As he asked it he took out a note-book and pencil. Mrs. Hale did not like the sight of that
pencil. She kept her eye fixed on her husband, as if to keep him from saying unnecessary things
that would go into that note-book and make trouble.

Hale did speak guardedly, as if the pencil had affected him too.

"Well, as if she didn't know what she was going to do next. And kind of--done up."

"How did she seem to feel about your coming?"

"Why, I don't think she minded--one way or other. She didn't pay much attention. I said, 'Ho'
do, Mrs. Wright? It's cold, ain't it?' And she said, 'Is it?'--and went on pleatin' at her apron.

"Well, I was surprised. She didn't ask me to come up to the stove, or to sit down, but just
set there, not even lookin' at me. And so I said: 'I want to see John.'

"And then she--laughed. I guess you would call it a laugh.

"I thought of Harry and the team outside, so I said, a little sharp, 'Can I see John?' 'No,'
says she--kind of dull like. 'Ain't he home?' says I. Then she looked at me. 'Yes,' says she,
'he's home.' 'Then why can't I see him?' I asked her, out of patience with her now. ''Cause
he's dead,' says she, just as quiet and dull--and fell to pleatin' her apron. 'Dead?' says
I, like you do when you can't take in what you've heard.

"She just nodded her head, not getting a bit excited, but rockin' back and forth.

"'Why--where is he?' says I, not knowing what to say.

"She just pointed upstairs--like this"--pointing to the room above.

"I got up, with the idea of going up there myself. By this time I--didn't know what to do.
I walked from there to here; then I says: 'Why, what did he die of?'

"'He died of a rope round his neck,' says she; and just went on pleatin' at her apron."

* * *

Hale stopped speaking, and stood staring at the rocker, as if he were still seeing the woman
who had sat there the morning before. Nobody spoke; it was as if every one were seeing the
woman who had sat there the morning before.

"And what did you do then?" the county attorney at last broke the silence.

"I went out and called Harry. I thought I might--need help. I got Harry in, and we went upstairs."
His voice fell almost to a whisper. "There he was--lying over the--"

"I think I'd rather have you go into that upstairs," the county attorney interrupted, "where
you can point it all out. Just go on now with the rest of the story."

"Well, my first thought was to get that rope off. It looked--"

He stopped, his face twitching.

"But Harry, he went up to him, and he said, 'No, he's dead all right, and we'd better not touch
anything.' So we went downstairs.

"She was still sitting that same way. 'Has anybody been notified?' I asked. 'No,' says she,
unconcerned.

"'Who did this, Mrs. Wright?' said Harry. He said it businesslike, and she stopped pleatin'
at her apron. 'I don't know,' she says. 'You don't know?' says Harry. 'Weren't you sleepin'
in the bed with him?' 'Yes,' says she, 'but I was on the inside.' 'Somebody slipped a rope
round his neck and strangled him, and you didn't wake up?' says Harry. 'I didn't wake up,'
she said after him.

"We may have looked as if we didn't see how that could be, for after a minute she said, 'I
sleep sound.'

"Harry was going to ask her more questions, but I said maybe that weren't our business; maybe
we ought to let her tell her story first to the coroner or the sheriff. So Harry went fast
as he could over to High Road--the Rivers' place, where there's a telephone."

"And what did she do when she knew you had gone for the coroner?" The attorney got his pencil
in his hand all ready for writing.

"She moved from that chair to this one over here"--Hale pointed to a small chair in the corner--"and
just sat there with her hands held together and looking down. I got a feeling that I ought
to make some conversation, so I said I had come in to see if John wanted to put in a telephone;
and at that she started to laugh, and then she stopped and looked at me--scared."

At sound of a moving pencil the man who was telling the story looked up.

"I dunno--maybe it wasn't scared," he hastened; "I wouldn't like to say it was. Soon Harry
got back, and then Dr. Lloyd came, and you, Mr. Peters, and so I guess that's all I know that
you don't."

* * *

He said that last with relief, and moved a little, as if relaxing. Every one moved a little.
The county attorney walked toward the stair door.

"I guess we'll go upstairs first--then out to the barn and around there."

He paused and looked around the kitchen.

"You're convinced there was nothing important here?" he asked the sheriff. "Nothing that would--point
to any motive?"

The sheriff too looked all around, as if to re-convince himself.

"Nothing here but kitchen things," he said, with a little laugh for the insignificance of kitchen
things.

The county attorney was looking at the cupboard--a peculiar, ungainly structure, half closet
and half cupboard, the upper part of it being built in the wall, and the lower part just the
old-fashioned kitchen cupboard. As if its queerness attracted him, he got a chair and opened
the upper part and looked in. After a moment he drew his hand away sticky.

"Here's a nice mess," he said resentfully.

The two women had drawn nearer, and now the sheriff's wife spoke.

"Oh--her fruit," she said, looking to Mrs. Hale for sympathetic understanding. She turned back
to the county attorney and explained: "She worried about that when it turned so cold last night.
She said the fire would go out and her jars might burst."

Mrs. Peters' husband broke into a laugh.

"Well, can you beat the women! Held for murder and worrying about her preserves!"

The young attorney set his lips.

"I guess before we're through with her she may have something more serious than preserves to
worry about."

"Oh, well," said Mrs. Hale's husband, with good-natured superiority, "women are used to worrying
over trifles."

The two women moved a little closer together. Neither of them spoke. The county attorney seemed
suddenly to remember his manners--and think of his future.

"And yet," said he, with the gallantry of a young politician, "for all their worries, what
would we do without the ladies?"

The women did not speak, did not unbend. He went to the sink and began washing his hands. He
turned to wipe them on the roller towel--whirled it for a cleaner place.

"Dirty towels! Not much of a housekeeper, would you say, ladies?"

He kicked his foot against some dirty pans under the sink.

"There's a great deal of work to be done on a farm," said Mrs. Hale stiffly.

"To be sure. And yet"--with a little bow to her--"I know there are some Dickson County farm-houses
that do not have such roller towels." He gave it a pull to expose its full length again.

"Those towels get dirty awful quick. Men's hands aren't always as clean as they might be."

"Ah, loyal to your sex, I see," he laughed. He stopped and gave her a keen look. "But you and
Mrs. Wright were neighbors. I suppose you were friends, too."

Martha Hale shook her head.

"I've seen little enough of her of late years. I've not been in this house--it's more than a year."

"And why was that? You didn't like her?"

"I liked her well enough," she replied with spirit. "Farmers' wives have their hands full,
Mr. Henderson. And then--" She looked around the kitchen.

"Yes?" he encouraged.

"It never seemed a very cheerful place," said she, more to herself than to him.

"No," he agreed; "I don't think any one would call it cheerful. I shouldn't say she had the
home-making instinct."

"Well, I don't know as Wright had, either," she muttered.

"You mean they didn't get on very well?" he was quick to ask.

"No; I don't mean anything," she answered, with decision. As she turned a little away from
him, she added: "But I don't think a place would be any the cheerfuler for John Wright's bein'
in it."

"I'd like to talk to you about that a little later, Mrs. Hale," he said. "I'm anxious to get
the lay of things upstairs now."

He moved toward the stair door, followed by the two men.

"I suppose anything Mrs. Peters does'll be all right?" the sheriff inquired. "She was to take
in some clothes for her, you know--and a few little things. We left in such a hurry yesterday."

The county attorney looked at the two women whom they were leaving alone there among the kitchen
things.

"Yes--Mrs. Peters," he said, his glance resting on the woman who was not Mrs. Peters, the big
farmer woman who stood behind the sheriff's wife. "Of course Mrs. Peters is one of us," he
said, in a manner of entrusting responsibility. "And keep your eye out Mrs. Peters, for anything
that might be of use. No telling; you women might come upon a clue to the motive--and that's
the thing we need."

Mr. Hale rubbed his face after the fashion of a show man getting ready for a pleasantry.

"But would the women know a clue if they did come upon it?" he said; and, having delivered
himself of this, he followed the others through the stair door.

* * *

The women stood motionless and silent, listening to the footsteps, first upon the stairs, then
in the room above them.

Then, as if releasing herself from something strange, Mrs. Hale began to arrange the dirty
pans under the sink, which the county attorney's disdainful push of the foot had deranged.

"I'd hate to have men comin' into my kitchen," she said testily--"snoopin' round and criticizin'."

"Of course it's no more than their duty," said the sheriff's wife, in her manner of timid acquiescence.

"Duty's all right," replied Mrs. Hale bluffly; "but I guess that deputy sheriff that come out
to make the fire might have got a little of this on." She gave the roller towel a pull. "Wish
I'd thought of that sooner! Seems mean to talk about her for not having things slicked up,
when she had to come away in such a hurry."

She looked around the kitchen. Certainly it was not "slicked up." Her eye was held by a bucket
of sugar on a low shelf. The cover was off the wooden bucket, and beside it was a paper bag--half
full.

Mrs. Hale moved toward it.

"She was putting this in there," she said to herself--slowly.

She thought of the flour in her kitchen at home--half sifted, half not sifted. She had been
interrupted, and had left things half done. What had interrupted Minnie Foster? Why had that
work been left half done? She made a move as if to finish it,--unfinished things always bothered
her,--and then she glanced around and saw that Mrs. Peters was watching her--and she didn't
want Mrs. Peters to get that feeling she had got of work begun and then--for some reason--not
finished.

"It's a shame about her fruit," she said, and walked toward the cupboard that the county attorney
had opened, and got on the chair, murmuring: "I wonder if it's all gone."

It was a sorry enough looking sight, but "Here's one that's all right," she said at last. She
held it toward the light. "This is cherries, too." She looked again. "I declare I believe that's
the only one."

With a sigh, she got down from the chair, went to the sink, and wiped off the bottle.

"She'll feel awful bad, after all her hard work in the hot weather. I remember the afternoon
I put up my cherries last summer."

She set the bottle on the table, and, with another sigh, started to sit down in the rocker.
But she did not sit down. Something kept her from sitting down in that chair. She straightened--stepped
back, and, half turned away, stood looking at it, seeing the woman who had sat there "pleatin'
at her apron."

The thin voice of the sheriff's wife broke in upon her: "I must be getting those things from
the front room closet." She opened the door into the other room, started in, stepped back.
"You coming with me, Mrs. Hale?" she asked nervously. "You--you could help me get them."

They were soon back--the stark coldness of that shut-up room was not a thing to linger in.

"My!" said Mrs. Peters, dropping the things on the table and hurrying to the stove.

Mrs. Hale stood examining the clothes the woman who was being detained in town had said she wanted.

"Wright was close!" she exclaimed, holding up a shabby black skirt that bore the marks of much
making over. "I think maybe that's why she kept so much to herself. I s'pose she felt she couldn't
do her part; and then, you don't enjoy things when you feel shabby. She used to wear pretty
clothes and be lively--when she was Minnie Foster, one of the town girls, singing in the choir.
But that--oh, that was twenty years ago."

With a carefulness in which there was something tender, she folded the shabby clothes and piled
them at one corner of the table. She looked up at Mrs. Peters and there was something in the
other woman's look that irritated her.

"She don't care," she said to herself. "Much difference it makes to her whether Minnie Foster
had pretty clothes when she was a girl."

Then she looked again, and she wasn't so sure; in fact, she hadn't at any time been perfectly
sure about Mrs. Peters. She had that shrinking manner, and yet her eyes looked as if they could
see a long way into things.

"This all you was to take in?" asked Mrs. Hale.

"No," said the sheriff's wife; "she said she wanted an apron. Funny thing to want," she ventured
in her nervous little way, "for there's not much to get you dirty in jail, goodness knows.
But I suppose just to make her feel more natural. If you're used to wearing an apron--. She
said they were in the bottom drawer of this cupboard. Yes--here they are. And then her little
shawl that always hung on the stair door."

She took the small gray shawl from behind the door leading upstairs, and stood a minute looking
at it.

Suddenly Mrs. Hale took a quick step toward the other woman.

"Mrs. Peters!"

"Yes, Mrs. Hale?"

"Do you think she--did it?"

A frightened look blurred the other thing in Mrs. Peters' eyes.

"Oh, I don't know," she said, in a voice that seemed to shrink away from the subject.

"Well, I don't think she did," affirmed Mrs. Hale stoutly. "Asking for an apron, and her little
shawl. Worryin' about her fruit."

"Mr. Peters says--." Footsteps were heard in the room above; she stopped, looked up, then went
on in a lowered voice: "Mr. Peters says--it looks bad for her. Mr. Henderson is awful sarcastic
in a speech, and he's going to make fun of her saying she didn't--wake up."

For a moment Mrs. Hale had no answer. Then, "Well, I guess John Wright didn't wake up--when
they was slippin' that rope under his neck," she muttered.

"No, it's strange," breathed Mrs. Peters. "They think it was such a--funny way to kill a man."

She began to laugh; at sound of the laugh, abruptly stopped.

"That's just what Mr. Hale said," said Mrs. Hale, in a resolutely natural voice. "There was
a gun in the house. He says that's what he can't understand."

"Mr. Henderson said, coming out, that what was needed for the case was a motive. Something
to show anger--or sudden feeling."

"Well, I don't see any signs of anger around here," said Mrs. Hale. "I don't--"

She stopped. It was as if her mind tripped on something. Her eye was caught by a dish-towel
in the middle of the kitchen table. Slowly she moved toward the table. One half of it was wiped
clean, the other half messy. Her eyes made a slow, almost unwilling turn to the bucket of sugar
and the half empty bag beside it. Things begun--and not finished.

After a moment she stepped back, and said, in that manner of releasing herself:

"Wonder how they're finding things upstairs? I hope she had it a little more red up up there.
You know,"--she paused, and feeling gathered,--"it seems kind of sneaking: locking her up in
town and coming out here to get her own house to turn against her!"

"But, Mrs. Hale," said the sheriff's wife, "the law is the law."

"I s'pose 'tis," answered Mrs. Hale shortly.

She turned to the stove, saying something about that fire not being much to brag of. She worked
with it a minute, and when she straightened up she said aggressively:

"The law is the law--and a bad stove is a bad stove. How'd you like to cook on this?"--pointing
with the poker to the broken lining. She opened the oven door and started to express her opinion
of the oven; but she was swept into her own thoughts, thinking of what it would mean, year
after year, to have that stove to wrestle with. The thought of Minnie Foster trying to bake
in that oven--and the thought of her never going over to see Minnie Foster--.

She was startled by hearing Mrs. Peters say: "A person gets discouraged--and loses heart."

The sheriff's wife had looked from the stove to the sink--to the pail of water which had been
carried in from outside. The two women stood there silent, above them the footsteps of the
men who were looking for evidence against the woman who had worked in that kitchen. That look
of seeing into things, of seeing through a thing to something else, was in the eyes of the
sheriff's wife now. When Mrs. Hale next spoke to her, it was gently:

"Better loosen up your things, Mrs. Peters. We'll not feel them when we go out."

Mrs. Peters went to the back of the room to hang up the fur tippet she was wearing. A moment
later she exclaimed, "Why, she was piecing a quilt," and held up a large sewing basket piled
high with quilt pieces.

Mrs. Hale spread some of the blocks out on the table.

"It's log-cabin pattern," she said, putting several of them together. "Pretty, isn't it?"

They were so engaged with the quilt that they did not hear the footsteps on the stairs. Just
as the stair door opened Mrs. Hale was saying:

"Do you suppose she was going to quilt it or just knot it?"

The sheriff threw up his hands.

"They wonder whether she was going to quilt it or just knot it!"

There was a laugh for the ways of women, a warming of hands over the stove, and then the county
attorney said briskly:

"Well, let's go right out to the barn and get that cleared up."

"I don't see as there's anything so strange," Mrs. Hale said resentfully, after the outside
door had closed on the three men--"our taking up our time with little things while we're waiting
for them to get the evidence. I don't see as it's anything to laugh about."

"Of course they've got awful important things on their minds," said the sheriff's wife apologetically.

They returned to an inspection of the block for the quilt. Mrs. Hale was looking at the fine,
even sewing, and preoccupied with thoughts of the woman who had done that sewing, when she
heard the sheriff's wife say, in a queer tone:

"Why, look at this one."

She turned to take the block held out to her.

"The sewing," said Mrs. Peters, in a troubled way. "All the rest of them have been so nice
and even--but--this one. Why, it looks as if she didn't know what she was about!"

Their eyes met--something flashed to life, passed between them; then, as if with an effort,
they seemed to pull away from each other. A moment Mrs. Hale sat her hands folded over that
sewing which was so unlike all the rest of the sewing. Then she had pulled a knot and drawn
the threads.

"Oh, what are you doing, Mrs. Hale?" asked the sheriff's wife, startled.

"Just pulling out a stitch or two that's not sewed very good," said Mrs. Hale mildly.

"I don't think we ought to touch things," Mrs. Peters said, a little helplessly.

"I'll just finish up this end," answered Mrs. Hale, still in that mild, matter-of-fact fashion.

She threaded a needle and started to replace bad sewing with good. For a little while she sewed
in silence. Then, in that thin, timid voice, she heard:

"Mrs. Hale!"

"Yes, Mrs. Peters?"

"What do you suppose she was so--nervous about?"

"Oh, I don't know," said Mrs. Hale, as if dismissing a thing not important enough to spend
much time on. "I don't know as she was--nervous. I sew awful queer sometimes when I'm just tired."

She cut a thread, and out of the corner of her eye looked up at Mrs. Peters. The small, lean
face of the sheriff's wife seemed to have tightened up. Her eyes had that look of peering into
something. But next moment she moved, and said in her thin, indecisive way:

"Well, I must get those clothes wrapped. They may be through sooner than we think. I wonder
where I could find a piece of paper--and string."

"In that cupboard, maybe," suggested Mrs. Hale, after a glance around.

* * *

One piece of the crazy sewing remained unripped. Mrs. Peters' back turned, Martha Hale now
scrutinized that piece, compared it with the dainty, accurate sewing of the other blocks. The
difference was startling. Holding this block made her feel queer, as if the distracted thoughts
of the woman who had perhaps turned to it to try and quiet herself were communicating themselves
to her.

Mrs. Peters' voice roused her.

"Here's a bird-cage," she said. "Did she have a bird, Mrs. Hale?"

"Why, I don't know whether she did or not." She turned to look at the cage Mrs. Peter was holding
up. "I've not been here in so long." She sighed. "There was a man round last year selling canaries
cheap--but I don't know as she took one. Maybe she did. She used to sing real pretty herself."

Mrs. Peters looked around the kitchen.

"Seems kind of funny to think of a bird here." She half laughed--an attempt to put up a barrier.
"But she must have had one--or why would she have a cage? I wonder what happened to it."

"I suppose maybe the cat got it," suggested Mrs. Hale, resuming her sewing.

"No; she didn't have a cat. She's got that feeling some people have about cats--being afraid
of them. When they brought her to our house yesterday, my cat got in the room, and she was
real upset and asked me to take it out."

"My sister Bessie was like that," laughed Mrs. Hale.

The sheriff's wife did not reply. The silence made Mrs. Hale turn round. Mrs. Peters was examining
the bird-cage.

"Look at this door," she said slowly. "It's broke. One hinge has been pulled apart."

Mrs. Hale came nearer.

"Looks as if some one must have been--rough with it."

Again their eyes met--startled, questioning, apprehensive. For a moment neither spoke nor stirred.
Then Mrs. Hale, turning away, said brusquely:

"If they're going to find any evidence, I wish they'd be about it. I don't like this place."

"But I'm awful glad you came with me, Mrs. Hale," Mrs. Peters put the bird-cage on the table
and sat down. "It would be lonesome for me--sitting here alone."

"Yes, it would, wouldn't it?" agreed Mrs. Hale, a certain determined naturalness in her voice.
She had picked up the sewing, but now it dropped in her lap, and she murmured in a different
voice: "But I tell you what I do wish, Mrs. Peters. I wish I had come over sometimes when she
was here. I wish--I had."

"But of course you were awful busy, Mrs. Hale. Your house--and your children."

"I could've come," retorted Mrs. Hale shortly. "I stayed away because it weren't cheerful--and
that's why I ought to have come. I"--she looked around--"I've never liked this place. Maybe
because it's down in a hollow and you don't see the road. I don't know what it is, but it's
a lonesome place, and always was. I wish I had come over to see Minnie Foster sometimes. I
can see now--" She did not put it into words.

"Well, you mustn't reproach yourself," counseled Mrs. Peters. "Somehow, we just don't see how
it is with other folks till--something comes up."

"Not having children makes less work," mused Mrs. Hale, after a silence, "but it makes a quiet
house--and Wright out to work all day--and no company when he did come in. Did you know John
Wright, Mrs. Peters?"

"Not to know him. I've seen him in town. They say he was a good man."

"Yes--good," conceded John Wright's neighbor grimly. "He didn't drink, and kept his word as
well as most, I guess, and paid his debts. But he was a hard man, Mrs. Peters. Just to pass
the time of day with him--." She stopped, shivered a little. "Like a raw wind that gets to
the bone." Her eye fell upon the cage on the table before her, and she added, almost bitterly:
"I should think she would've wanted a bird!"

Suddenly she leaned forward, looking intently at the cage. "But what do you s'pose went wrong
with it?"

"I don't know," returned Mrs. Peters; "unless it got sick and died."

But after she said it she reached over and swung the broken door. Both women watched it as
if somehow held by it.

"You didn't know--her?" Mrs. Hale asked, a gentler note in her voice.

"Not till they brought her yesterday," said the sheriff's wife.

"She--come to think of it, she was kind of like a bird herself. Real sweet and pretty, but
kind of timid and--fluttery. How--she--did--change."

That held her for a long time. Finally, as if struck with a happy thought and relieved to get
back to every-day things, she exclaimed:

"Tell you what, Mrs. Peters, why don't you take the quilt in with you? It might take up her mind."

"Why, I think that's a real nice idea, Mrs. Hale," agreed the sheriff's wife, as if she too
were glad to come into the atmosphere of a simple kindness. "There couldn't possibly be any
objection to that, could there? Now, just what will I take? I wonder if her patches are in
here--and her things."

They turned to the sewing basket.

"Here's some red," said Mrs. Hale, bringing out a roll of cloth. Underneath that was a box.
"Here, maybe her scissors are in here--and her things." She held it up. "What a pretty box!
I'll warrant that was something she had a long time ago--when she was a girl."

She held it in her hand a moment; then, with a little sigh, opened it.

Instantly her hand went to her nose.

"Why--!"

Mrs. Peters drew nearer--then turned away.

"There's something wrapped up in this piece of silk," faltered Mrs. Hale.

"This isn't her scissors," said Mrs. Peters, in a shrinking voice.

Her hand not steady, Mrs. Hale raised the piece of silk. "Oh, Mrs. Peters!" she cried. "It's--"

Mrs. Peters bent closer.

"It's the bird," she whispered.

"But, Mrs. Peters!" cried Mrs. Hale. "Look at it! Its neck--look at its neck! It's all--other
side to."

She held the box away from her.

The sheriff's wife again bent closer.

"Somebody wrung its neck," said she, in a voice that was slow and deep.

And then again the eyes of the two women met--this time clung together in a look of dawning
comprehension, of growing horror. Mrs. Peters looked from the dead bird to the broken door
of the cage. Again their eyes met. And just then there was a sound at the outside door.

Mrs. Hale slipped the box under the quilt pieces in the basket, and sank into the chair before
it. Mrs. Peters stood holding to the table. The county attorney and the sheriff came in from
outside.

"Well, ladies," said the county attorney, as one turning from serious things to little pleasantries,
"have you decided whether she was going to quilt it or knot it?"

"We think," began the sheriff's wife in a flurried voice, "that she was going to--knot it."

He was too preoccupied to notice the change that came in her voice on that last.

"Well, that's very interesting, I'm sure," he said tolerantly. He caught sight of the bird-cage.
"Has the bird flown?"

"We think the cat got it," said Mrs. Hale in a voice curiously even.

He was walking up and down, as if thinking something out.

"Is there a cat?" he asked absently.

Mrs. Hale shot a look up at the sheriff's wife.

"Well, not now," said Mrs. Peters. "They're superstitious, you know; they leave."

She sank into her chair.

The county attorney did not heed her. "No sign at all of any one having come in from the outside,"
he said to Peters, in the manner of continuing an interrupted conversation. "Their own rope.
Now let's go upstairs again and go over it, piece by piece. It would have to have been some
one who knew just the--"

The stair door closed behind them and their voices were lost.

The two women sat motionless, not looking at each other, but as if peering into something and
at the same time holding back. When they spoke now it was as if they were afraid of what they
were saying, but as if they could not help saying it.

"She liked the bird," said Martha Hale, low and slowly. "She was going to bury it in that pretty
box."

"When I was a girl," said Mrs. Peters, under her breath, "my kitten--there was a boy took a
hatchet, and before my eyes--before I could get there--" She covered her face an instant. "If
they hadn't held me back I would have"--she caught herself, looked upstairs where footsteps
were heard, and finished weakly--"hurt him."

Then they sat without speaking or moving.

"I wonder how it would seem," Mrs. Hale at last began, as if feeling her way over strange ground--"never
to have had any children around?" Her eyes made a slow sweep of the kitchen, as if seeing what
that kitchen had meant through all the years. "No, Wright wouldn't like the bird," she said
after that--"a thing that sang. She used to sing. He killed that too." Her voice tightened.

Mrs. Peters moved uneasily.

"Of course we don't know who killed the bird."

"I knew John Wright," was Mrs. Hale's answer.

"It was an awful thing was done in this house that night, Mrs. Hale," said the sheriff's wife.
"Killing a man while he slept--slipping a thing round his neck that choked the life out of him."

Mrs. Hale's hand went out to the bird-cage.

"His neck. Choked the life out of him."

"We don't know who killed him," whispered Mrs. Peters wildly. "We don't know."

Mrs. Hale had not moved. "If there had been years and years of--nothing, then a bird to sing
to you, it would be awful--still--after the bird was still."

It was as if something within her not herself had spoken, and it found in Mrs. Peters something
she did not know as herself.

"I know what stillness is," she said, in a queer, monotonous voice. "When we homesteaded in
Dakota, and my first baby died--after he was two years old--and me with no other then--"

Mrs. Hale stirred.

"How soon do you suppose they'll be through looking for the evidence?"

"I know what stillness is," repeated Mrs. Peters, in just that same way. Then she too pulled
back. "The law has got to punish crime, Mrs. Hale," she said in her tight little way.

"I wish you'd seen Minnie Foster," was the answer, "when she wore a white dress with blue ribbons,
and stood up there in the choir and sang."

The picture of that girl, the fact that she had lived neighbor to that girl for twenty years,
and had let her die for lack of life, was suddenly more than she could bear.

"Oh, I wish I'd come over here once in a while!" she cried. "That was a crime! That was a crime!
Who's going to punish that?"

"We mustn't take on," said Mrs. Peters, with a frightened look toward the stairs.

"I might 'a' known she needed help! I tell you, it's queer, Mrs. Peters. We live close together,
and we live far apart. We all go through the same things--it's all just a different kind of
the same thing! If it weren't--why do you and I understand? Why do we know--what we know this
minute?"

She dashed her hand across her eyes. Then, seeing the jar of fruit on the table, she reached
for it and choked out:

"If I was you I wouldn't tell her her fruit was gone! Tell her it ain't. Tell her it's all
right--all of it. Here--take this in to prove it to her! She--she may never know whether it
was broke or not."

She turned away.

Mrs. Peters reached out for the bottle of fruit as if she were glad to take it--as if touching
a familiar thing, having something to do, could keep her from something else. She got up, looked
about for something to wrap the fruit in, took a petticoat from the pile of clothes she had
brought from the front room, and nervously started winding that round the bottle.

"My!" she began, in a high, false voice, "it's a good thing the men couldn't hear us! Getting
all stirred up over a little thing like a--dead canary." She hurried over that. "As if that
could have anything to do with--with--My, wouldn't they laugh?"

Footsteps were heard on the stairs.

"Maybe they would," muttered Mrs. Hale--"maybe they wouldn't."

"No, Peters," said the county attorney incisively; "it's all perfectly clear, except the reason
for doing it. But you know juries when it comes to women. If there was some definite thing--something
to show. Something to make a story about. A thing that would connect up with this clumsy way
of doing it."

In a covert way Mrs. Hale looked at Mrs. Peters. Mrs. Peters was looking at her. Quickly they
looked away from each other. The outer door opened and Mr. Hale came in.

"I've got the team round now," he said. "Pretty cold out there."

"I'm going to stay here awhile by myself," the county attorney suddenly announced. "You can
send Frank out for me, can't you?" he asked the sheriff. "I want to go over everything. I'm
not satisfied we can't do better."

Again, for one brief moment, the two women's eyes found one another.

The sheriff came up to the table.

"Did you want to see what Mrs. Peters was going to take in?"

The county attorney picked up the apron. He laughed.

"Oh, I guess they're not very dangerous things the ladies have picked out."

Mrs. Hale's hand was on the sewing basket in which the box was concealed. She felt that she
ought to take her hand off the basket. She did not seem able to. He picked up one of the quilt
blocks which she had piled on to cover the box. Her eyes felt like fire. She had a feeling
that if he took up the basket she would snatch it from him.

But he did not take it up. With another little laugh, he turned away, saying:

"No; Mrs. Peters doesn't need supervising. For that matter, a sheriff's wife is married to
the law. Ever think of it that way, Mrs. Peters?"

Mrs. Peters was standing beside the table. Mrs. Hale shot a look up at her; but she could not
see her face. Mrs. Peters had turned away. When she spoke, her voice was muffled.

"Not--just that way," she said.

"Married to the law!" chuckled Mrs. Peters' husband. He moved toward the door into the front
room, and said to the county attorney:

"I just want you to come in here a minute, George. We ought to take a look at these windows."

"Oh--windows," said the county attorney scoffingly.

"We'll be right out, Mr. Hale," said the sheriff to the farmer, who was still waiting by the door.

Hale went to look after the horses. The sheriff followed the county attorney into the other
room. Again--for one final moment--the two women were alone in that kitchen.

Martha Hale sprang up, her hands tight together, looking at that other woman, with whom it
rested. At first she could not see her eyes, for the sheriff's wife had not turned back since
she turned away at that suggestion of being married to the law. But now Mrs. Hale made her
turn back. Her eyes made her turn back. Slowly, unwillingly, Mrs. Peters turned her head until
her eyes met the eyes of the other woman. There was a moment when they held each other in a
steady, burning look in which there was no evasion nor flinching. Then Martha Hale's eyes pointed
the way to the basket in which was hidden the thing that would make certain the conviction
of the other woman--that woman who was not there and yet who had been there with them all through
that hour.

For a moment Mrs. Peters did not move. And then she did it. With a rush forward, she threw
back the quilt pieces, got the box, tried to put it in her handbag. It was too big. Desperately
she opened it, started to take the bird out. But there she broke--she could not touch the bird.
She stood there helpless, foolish.

There was the sound of a knob turning in the inner door. Martha Hale snatched the box from
the sheriff's wife, and got it in the pocket of her big coat just as the sheriff and the county
attorney came back into the kitchen.

"Well, Henry," said the county attorney facetiously, "at least we found out that she was not
going to quilt it. She was going to--what is it you call it, ladies?"

Mrs. Hale's hand was against the pocket of her coat.

"We call it--knot it, Mr. Henderson."

THE BUNKER MOUSE[12]

[Note 12: Copyright, 1917, by The Century Company. Copyright, 1918, by Frederick Stuart Greene.]

By FREDERICK STUART GREENE

From The Century Magazine

