The theatre ballet apparently arose out of these Court ballets. Henry III. and Henry IV., the
latter especially, were very fond of these entertainments, and many Italians were brought to
France to assist in them. Pompeo Diabono, a Savoyard, was brought to Paris in 1554 to regulate
the Court ballets. At a later date came Rinuccini, the poet, a Florentine, as was probably
Caccini, the musician. They had composed and produced the little operetta of "Daphne," which
had been performed in Florence in 1597. Under these last-mentioned masters the ballet in France
took somewhat of its present form. This passion for Court ballets continued under Louis XIII.
and Louis XIV.

Louis XIII. as a youth danced in one of the ballets at St. Germain, it is said at the desire
of Richelieu, who was an expert in spectacle. It appears that he was encouraged in these amusements
to remedy fits of melancholy.

Louis XIV., at seven, danced in a masquerade, and afterwards not only danced in the ballet
of "Cassandra," in 1651, but did all he could to raise the condition of the dance and encourage
dancing and music. His influence, combined with that of Cardinal Richelieu, raised the ballet
from gross and trivial styles to a dignity worthy of music, poetry and dancing. His uncle,
Gaston of Orleans, still patronized the grosser style, but it became eclipsed by the better.
Lulli composed music to the words of Molière and other celebrities; amongst notable works then
produced was the "Andromeda" of Corneille, a tragedy, with hymns and dances, executed in 1650,
at the Petit Bourbon.

The foundation of the theatrical ballet was, however, at the instigation of Mazarin, to prevent
a lowering of tone in the establishment of the Académie de Danse under thirteen Academicians
in 1661. This appears to have been merged into the Académie Royale de Musique et de Danse in
1669, which provided a proper training for débutants, under MM. Perrin and Cambert, whilst
Beauchamp, the master of the Court ballets, had charge of the dancing. The first opera-ballet,
the "Pomona" of Perrin and Cambert, was produced in 1671. To this succeeded many works of Lulli,
to whom is attributed the increased speed in dance music and dancing, that of the Court ballets
having been slow and stately.

The great production of the period appears to have been the "Triumph of Love" in 1681, with
twenty scenes and seven hundred performers; amongst these were many of the nobility, and some
excellent ballerine, such as Pesaut, Carré, Leclerc, and Lafontaine.

A detailed history of the ballet is, however, impossible here, and we must proceed to touch
only on salient points. It passed from the Court to the theatre about 1680 and had two characteristics,
one with feminine dancers, the other without.

It is not a little curious that wearing the mask, a revival of the antique, was practised in
some of these ballets. The history of the opera-ballet of those days gives to us many celebrated
names of musicians, such as Destouches, who gave new "verve" to ballet music, and Rameau. Jean
Georges Noverre abolished the singing and established the five-act ballet on its own footing
in 1776. In this it appears he had partly the advice of Garrick, whom he met in London. The
names of the celebrated dancers are numerous, such as Pécourt, Blaudy (who taught Mlle. Camargo),
Laval, Vestris, Germain, Prevost, Lafontaine, and Camargo (fig. 61), of the 18th century; Taglioni,
Grisi, Duvernay, Cerito, Ellsler, etc., of the 19th century, to those of our own day. A fair
notice of all of these would be a work in itself.

The introduction of the ballet into England was as late as 1734, when the French dancers, Mlle.
Sallé, the rival of Mlle. Camargo, and Mlle. de Subligny made a great success at Covent Garden
in "Ariadne and Galatea," and Mlle. Salle danced in her own choregraphic invention of "Pygmalion,"
since which time it has been popular in England, when those of the first class can be obtained.
There are, however, some interesting and romantic circumstances connected with the ballet in
London in the last century, which it will not be out of place to record here. Amongst the dancers
of the last century of considerable celebrity were two already mentioned, Mlles. Duvernay (fig.
62) and Taglioni (fig. 64), whose names are recorded in the classic verse of "Ingoldsby."

    "Malibran's dead, Duvernay's fled;
     Taglioni has not yet arrived in her stead."

Mlle. Duvernay was a Parisian, and commenced her study under Barrez, but subsequently was under
Vestris and Taglioni, the father of the celebrity mentioned in the verse.

Duran hangs over the mantelpiece of the refectory of the presbytery.

Having made a great Parisian reputation, she came to London in 1833, and from that date until
1837 held the town, when she married Mr. Stephens Lyne Stephens, M.P., a gentleman of considerable
wealth, but was left a childless widow in 1861, and retired to her estate at Lyneford Hall,
Norfolk, living in retirement and spending her time in good works. She is said to have spent
£100,000 in charities and churches, and that at Cambridge, dedicated to the English martyrs,
was founded, completed, and endowed by her. She led a blameless and worthy life, and died in
1894. Her portrait by Mlle. Taglioni (fig. 64), her co-celebrity, married Count Gilbert de
Voisins, a French nobleman, in 1847, and with her marriage came an ample fortune; unfortunately
the bulk of this fortune was lost in the Franco-German war. With the courage of her character
the Countess returned to London and gave lessons in dancing, etc., in which she was sufficiently
successful to obtain a fair living. She died in 1884 at 80 years of age. Of the other celebrities
of the period--Carlotta Grisi, Ferraris (fig. 65), and Fanny Ellsler (fig. 63)--some illustrations
are given; besides these were Fanny Cerito, Lucile Grahn, a Dane, and some others of lesser
notoriety performing in London at this great period of the ballet.

The recent encouragement of the classic ballet has introduced us to some exquisite dancers:
amongst these are Mlle. Adeline Genée (fig. 66) and Mlle. Anna Pavlova (fig. 67); the latter,
with M. Mordkin and a corps of splendid dancers, are from Russia, from whence also comes the
important troupe now at the Alhambra with Mlle. Geltzer and other excellent dancers. The celebrated
company at Covent Garden, and Lydia Kyasht at the Empire, are also Russian. It is not surprising
that we get excellent dancing from Russia; the school formed by Peter the Great about 1698
has been under State patronage ever since.

Notices of all the important dancers from Italy, Spain, Paris, or elsewhere, performing in
England in recent years, would occupy considerable space, and the reader can easily obtain
information concerning them elsewhere.

That the technique and speed of the classic dance has considerably increased is historically
certain, and we must hope that this speed will not sacrifice graceful movement. Moreover, technique
alone will not make the complete fine-artist: some invention is involved. Unfortunately, some
modern attempts at invention seem crude and sensational, whilst lacking the exquisite technique
desirable in all exhibitions of finished art.

Before concluding it is almost imperative to say something about the naked foot dancers, followers
of Isidora Duncan. Some critics and a certain public have welcomed them; but is it not "sham
antique"? It does not remind one of the really classic. Moreover, the naked foot should be
of antique beauty, which in most of these cases it is not. Advertisements tell us that these
dance are interpretations of classic music--Chopin, Weber, Brahms, etc.; they are not really
interpretations, but distractions! We can hardly imagine that these composers intended their
work for actual dancing. One can listen and be entranced; one sees the dancer's "interpretations"
or "translations" and the music is degraded to a series of sham classic postures.

The idea that running about the stage in diaphanous costumes, with conventional mimicry and
arm action, is classic or beautiful is a mistake; the term aesthetic may cover, but not redeem
it. There is not even the art of the ordinary ballet-dancer discernible in these proceedings.

On another plane are such as the ballets in "Don Giovanni" and "Faust." Mozart and Gounod wrote
these with a full knowledge of the method of interpretation and the persons who had been trained
for that purpose--the performers fit the music and it fits them. This opera-ballet is also
more in accordance with tradition before the time of Noverre.

Neither do the "popular" and curious exhibitions of Loie Fuller strike one as having a classic
character, or future, of any consideration, pretty as they may be.

The operetta or musical comedy has given us some excellent art, especially at the end of the
19th century, when Sylvia Gray, Kate Vaughan, Letty Lind, Topsy Sinden, and others of like
métier gave us skirt and drapery dancing.

This introduces us to the question of costume. That commonly used by the prima ballerina is
certainly not graceful; it was apparently introduced about 1830, presumably to show the action
and finished method of the lower extremities. If Fanny Ellsler and Duvernay could excel without
this ugly contrivance, why is it necessary for others?

At the same time it is better than indifferent imitations of the Greek, or a return to the
debased characteristics of Pompeiian art, in which the effect of the classic and fine character
of the material are rendered in a sort of transparent muslin.

With these notices the author's object in this sketch is completed. Of the bal-masqué garden
dances, public balls and such-like, he has no intention to treat; they are not classic dancing
nor "art," with the exception perhaps of the Scottish reels. Nor is he interested in the dancing
of savage tribes, nor in that of the East, although some few illustrations are given to illustrate
traditions: for example, the use of the pipe and tabor in Patagonia, the dancer from Japan,
winged, like that in the "Roman de la Rose" (fig. 40), and the religious dance of Tibet, showing
the survival of the religious dance in some countries. In Mrs. Groves' book on dancing there
is an excellent chapter on the Ritual dance as now practised, to which the reader can refer.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Baron, A. "Lettres et Entretiens sur la Danse." Paris, 1825.

Emmanuel, M. "La Danse grecque antique." 1896.

Ménestrier, Père. "Des Ballets anciens et modernes." 1682.

Bonnet. "Histoire générale de la Danse sacrée et profane." 1723.

Cahusac. "La Danse ancienne et moderne." 1754.

Noverre. "Lettres sur les Ballets." 1760.

Charbonnel, R. "La Danse de Lettres, &c." 1807.

Pougin, A. Dict. Hist, du Théâtre. 1885.

Aulnaye, De l'. "De la Saltation théâtrale." 1789.

Olaus Magnus. Gent. Septentr., Hy., Book III., Chap. VII. See Bourne's "Vulgar Antiqs.," p. 175.

Abbeau-Thoinot (Canon Jean Tabourot). "Orchésographie." 1643.

Strutt's "Sports and Pastimes." London, 1801.

Thomson, Chas. and Samuel. Collection of 800 Dances. 4 vols. 1770-1773.

Playford's "Dancing Master." 2nd ed. 1652.

Wilkinson, Sir G. "Ancient Egyptians." 3 vols. London.

Dennis. "Etruria." 2 vols. London.

Compan. "Dictionnaire de la Danse." 1802.

Blasis, C. "Traité de la Danse." Milan, 1830.

---. "Code of Terpsichore." London, 1823.

Vuillier, G. "La Danse à travers les Ages."

Menil, F. de. "Histoire de la Danse à travers les Ages."

Fonta Laure, Mme. "Notice sur les Danses du xvi. siècle."

Guihelmi. "Hebraie Pisauriensis, de practica seu arte trepudis, &c." 1463. MS. Bib. Nation.

Domini, Johan. "Pisauriensis," ditto. MS. Bib. Nation. 1463.

Caroso, F. "Il Ballarino." 1581.

Cesare Negri. "Nuovo Invenzioni di Balli." 1604.

Vestris, D. "Les Danses autrefois." 1887.

Desrat, G. "Dictionnaire de la Danse." Paris, 1895.

Rameau, P. "Le Maître à danser."

Magny. "Principes de Chorégraphie." Paris, 1765.

---. "Nouveau Guide de la Danse." 1888.

Gawlikowski, P. "Guide complet de la Danse." 1858.

Angiolini. "Discuzzioni sulla dansa pantomima." 1760.

Saint Léon. "De l'etat actuel de la danse." Lisbon, 1856.

Giraudet, E. Traité de la danse, 1890.

---. Nouveau Guide, 1888.

Grove, Mrs. Lilly. "History of Dancing." London, 1890.

Skalkovsky-Pleshcheev. "Nash Balet" (our Ballet). 1899. A History of the Russian Ballet, in
Russian.