The Mafulu
             Mountain People of British New Guinea

                      Robert W. Williamson

                      With an Introduction

                               by

                  A. C. Haddon, Sc.D., F.R.S.

                   With Illustrations and Map

                   Macmillan and Co., Limited
                  St. Martin's Street, London
                              1912

PREFACE

This book is the outcome of an expedition to British New Guinea in 1910, in which, after a
short stay among the people of some of the western Solomon Islands, including those of that
old centre of the head hunters, the Rubiana lagoon, and a preparatory and instructive journey
in New Guinea among the large villages of the Mekeo district, I struck across country by a
little known route, via Lapeka, to Ido-Ido and on to Dilava, and thus passed by way of further
preparation through the Kuni country, and ultimately reached the district of the Mafulu villages,
of whose people very little was known, and which was therefore the mecca of my pilgrimage.

I endeavoured to carry out the enquiries of which the book is a record as carefully and accurately
as possible; but it must be remembered that the Mafulu people had seen very few white men,
except some of the Fathers of the Catholic Mission of the Sacred Heart, the visits of Government
officials and once or twice of a scientific traveller having been but few and far between,
and only short; that the mission station in Mafulu (the remotest station of the mission) had
only been established five years previously; that the people were utterly unaccustomed to the
type of questioning which systematic ethnological enquiry involves, and that necessarily there
was often the usual hesitation in giving the required information.

I cannot doubt, therefore, that future enquiries and investigations made in the same district
will bring to light errors and misunderstandings, which even with the greatest care can hardly
be avoided in the case of a first attempt on new ground, where everything has to be investigated
and worked up from the beginning. I hope, however, that the bulk of my notes will be found
to have been correct in substance so far as they go.

I regret that my ignorance of tropical flora and fauna has made it impossible for me to give
the names of many of the plants and animals to which I refer.

There are many people, more than I can mention here, to whom I owe my grateful thanks. Prior
to my departure for the South Seas Dr. Haddon took great trouble in helping and advising me,
and, indeed, I doubt whether I should have ventured upon my solitary expedition if I had not
had his stimulating encouragement.

In New Guinea I had the never-failing hospitality and kindness of my good friend Monseigneur
de Boismenu (the Bishop of the Mission of the Sacred Heart) and the Fathers and Brothers of
the Mission. Among the latter I would specially mention Father Egedi and Father Clauser. Father
Egedi (whose name is already familiar to students of New Guinea Ethnology) was my friend and
travelling companion during a portion of my journeyings through the Mekeo and Kuni districts,
and his Mekeo explanations proved invaluable to me when I reached my Mafulu destination. And
dear good Father Clauser was a pillar of help in Mafulu. He placed at my disposal all his existing
knowledge concerning the people, and was my intermediary and interpreter throughout all my
enquiries. And finally, when having at some risk prolonged my stay at Mafulu until those enquiries
were completed, I was at last compelled by the serious state of my health to beat a retreat,
and be carried down to the coast, he undertook to do the whole of my photographing and physical
measurements, and the care and skill with which he did so are evidenced by the results as disclosed
in this book. [1] I must also add that the frontispiece and plates 17, 67, 68, 69 and 70 are
taken from previous photographs which Father Clauser kindly placed at my disposal. My remembrance
of His Lordship the Bishop, and of the Reverend Fathers and the Brothers of the Mission will
ever be one of affectionate personal regard, and of admiration of the spirit of heroic self-sacrifice
which impels them to submit cheerfully to the grave and constant hardships and dangers to which
their labour of love necessarily exposes them.

Since my return home Dr. Seligmann has given me immense help, advising me upon my notes, placing
material at my disposal, and afterwards reading through a considerable portion of my manuscript.
Mr. T.A. Joyce and Mr. J. Edge Partington helped me in arranging and dealing with the things
which I had brought back to the British Museum. Dr. Keith examined and reported upon some skulls
which I had obtained, and advised me upon my notes on physique. Dr. Stapf helped me in matters
of botanical identification; Mr. S.H. Ray has given me the full benefit of his wide knowledge
of South Pacific linguistics, and has written the appendices to the book. And, finally, Dr.
Haddon has very kindly read through my proof sheets.

In conclusion, I would add that there is still an immense amount of detailed work to be done
among the Mafulu people, and that the districts of the Ambo and Boboi and Oru Lopiku people,
still further back among the mountains, offer an almost virgin field for investigation to anyone
who will take the trouble to go there.

CONTENTS

Introduction, by Dr. A.C. Haddon

CHAPTER I

Introductory

CHAPTER II

Physique and Character

CHAPTER III

Dress and Ornament

CHAPTER IV

Daily Life and Matters Connected with It

CHAPTER V

Community, Clan, and Village Systems and Chieftainship

CHAPTER VI

Villages, Emone, Houses and Modes of Inter-Village Communication

CHAPTER VII

Government, Property and Inheritance

CHAPTER VIII

The Big Feast

CHAPTER IX

Some Other Ceremonies and Feasts

CHAPTER X

Matrimonial and Sexual

CHAPTER XI

Killing, Cannibalism and Warfare

CHAPTER XII

Hunting, Fishing and Agriculture

CHAPTER XIII

Bark Cloth Making, Netting and Art

CHAPTER XIV

Music and Singing, Dancing, and Toys and Games

CHAPTER XV

Counting, Currency and Trade

CHAPTER XVI

Language

CHAPTER XVII

Illness, Death and Burial

CHAPTER XVIII

Religion and Superstitious Beliefs and Practices

CHAPTER XIX

Note on the Kuni People

CHAPTER XX

Conclusion

APPENDIX I

A Grammar of the Fuyuge Language

APPENDIX II

Note on the Afoa Language

APPENDIX III

Note on the Kovio Language

APPENDIX IV

A Comparative Vocabulary of the Fuyuge, Afoa, and Kovio Languages

APPENDIX V

Notes on the Papuan Languages Spoken about the Head Waters of the St. Joseph River, Central Papua

PLATES

        Mafulu Women Decorated for a Dance. ... Frontispiece
 1      Kuni Scenery.
 2      Mafulu Scenery.
 3      Skull A.
 4      Skull C.
 5      Husband, Wife and Child.
 6      Man and Two Women.
 7, 8   Man, Young Man and Boy.
 9      Different Types of Men.
10      An Unusual Type.
11, 12  Two Unusual Types.
13      Fig. 1. Section of Man's Perineal Band. Fig. 2. Decoration
        near end of Woman's Perineal Band. Fig. 3. Section of Woman's
        Perineal Band. Fig. 4. Section of Man's or Woman's Dancing
        Ribbon.
14      Fig. 1. Belt No. 1. Fig. 2. Belt No. 3. Fig. 3. Belt No. 4.
15      Fig. 1. Belt No. 5 (one end only). Fig. 2. Belt No. 6
        (one end only). Fig. 3. Belt No. 7.
16      A General Group.
17      A Young Chief's Sister decorated for a Dance.
18, 19  Women wearing Illness Recovery Capes.
20      Fig. 1. Ear-rings. Fig. 2. Jew's Harp. Fig. 3. Hair Fringe.
21      Man, Woman and Children.
22, 23  A Little Girl with Head Decorations.
24      Figs. 1, 2, 5, and 6. Women's Hair Plaits decorated
        with European Beads, Shells, Shell Discs, Dog's Tooth,
        and Betel Nut Fruit. Fig. 3. Man's Hair Plait with Cane
        Pendant. Fig. 4. Man's Hair Plait with Betel Nut Pendant.
25      Fig. 1. Leg Band. Figs. 2 and 4. Women's  Hair Plaits
        decorated with Shells and Dogs'   Teeth. Fig. 3. Bone Implement
        used (as a Fork) for Eating.
26      Group of Women.
27      A Young Woman.
28      Two Women.
29      Two Women.
30      Fig. 1. Mourning String
        Necklace. Fig. 2. Comb. Fig. 3. Pig's Tail Ornament for
        Head. Fig. 4. Whip Lash Head Ornament. Fig. 5. Forehead
        Ornament.
31      Necklaces.
32      A Necklace.
33      Necklaces.
34      Fig. 1. Armlet No. 5. Fig. 2. Armlet No. 4. Fig. 3. Armlet
        No. 2. Fig. 4. Armlet No. 1.
35      Woman wearing Dancing Apron.
36, 37  Decoration of Dancing Aprons.
38, 39  Decoration of Dancing Aprons.
40, 41  Decoration of Dancing Aprons.
42, 43  Decoration of Dancing Aprons.
44      Head Feather Ornaments.
45      Head Feather Ornaments.
46      Fig. 1. Head Feather Ornament. Fig. 2. Back Feather
        Ornament.
47      Plaited Head Feather Frames.
48      Mother and Baby.
49      At the Spring.
50      A Social Gathering.
51      Fig. 1. Small Smoking Pipe. Fig. 2. Pig-bone Scraping
        Implement. Fig. 3. Stone Bark Cloth Beater. Fig. 4. Drilling
        Implement. Fig. 5. Bamboo Knife. Figs. 6 and 7. Lime Gourds.
52      Fig. 1. Wooden Dish. Figs. 2 and 3. Water-Carrying Gourds.
53      Fig. 1. Bag No. 3. Fig. 2. Bag No. 4. Fig. 3. Bag. No. 6.
54      Village of Salube and Surrounding Country.
55      Village of Seluku, with Chiefs Emone at End and Remains
        of Broken-down Burial Platform in Middle.
56      Village of Amalala, with Chiefs Emone at End..
57      Village of Amalala (looking in other direction), with
        Secondary Emone at End.
58      Village of Malala, with Secondary Emone at End and
        Ordinary Grave and Burial Platform of Chief's Child in Right
        Foreground.
59      Village of Uvande, with Chief's Emone at End.
60      Village of Biave, with Chief's Emone at End and Burial
        Platform of Chief's Child in Middle.
61      Chief's Emone in Village of Amalala.
62      Chief's Emone in Village of Malala.
63      House in Village of Malala.
64      House in Village of Levo, with Child's Excrement Receptacle
        to Left.
65      Suspension Bridge over St. Joseph River.
66      Bridge over Aduala River.
67      Scene at Big Feast in Village of Amalala.
68      Row of Killed Pigs at Big Feast at Village of Amalala.
69      Scene at Village of Seluku during Preparations for Big
        Feast.
70      Scene at Big Feast at Village of Seluku.
71      Young Girl Ornamented for Perineal Band Ceremony.
72      Feast at Perineal Band Ceremony.
73      Figs, 1, 2, and 3. Points of War Spears. Fig. 4. Point of
        War-Arrow. Fig. 5. Point of Bird-Shooting Arrow.
74      Fig. 1. Bow. Fig. 2. Shield (outside). Fig. 3. Shield
        (inside).
75      Fig. 1. Club (pineapple type of head). Fig. 2. Club (disc
        type of head). Fig. 3. Drum. Fig. 4. Adze.
76      Fishing Weir.
77      Planting Yams in Garden.
78      Collecting Sweet Potatoes in Garden.
79      Hammering Bark Cloth.
80      The Ine Pandanus.
81      Mafulu Network.
82      Funeral Feast (not of Chief). Guests assembled to commence
        Dance down Village Enclosure.
83      The same Funeral Feast. Guest Chief Dancing down Village
        Enclosure.
84      Platform Grave of Chief's Child at Back. Ordinary Grave
        in Front.
85      Group of Platform Graves of Chiefs and their Relations.
86      Platform Grave of a Chief's Child.
87, 88  The Gabe Fig Tree, in which Chiefs' Burial Boxes
        are placed and which is Generally Believed to be Haunted
        by Spirits.
89      The Remains of a Chiefs Burial Platform which has collapsed,
        and beneath which his Skull and some of his Bones are interred
        Underground.
90      An Emone to which are hung the Skulls and some of the
        Bones from Chiefs' Burial Platforms which have Collapsed.
91      A House with Receptacle for Child's Excrement.

        Map.

ILLUSTRATIONS IN TEXT

 1.     Leg band making (commencing stage)
 2.     Ancient Mortar
 3.     Illustrative Diagram of a Mafulu Community of Villages
 4.     Diagram of Front of Emone (Front Hood of Roof and Front
        Platform and Portions of Front Timbers omitted, so as to
        show Interior)
 5.     Diagram of Transverse Section across Centre of Emone
 6.     Diagrammatic Sketch of Apse-like Projection of Roof of
        Emone and Platform Arrangements
 7.     Diagram Illustrating Positions of People during Performance
        at Big Feast
 8.     Mafulu Net Making (1st Line of Network)
 9.     Mafulu Net Making (2nd, 3rd, and 4th Lines of Network)
10.     Mafulu Net Making (5th Line of Network, to which Rest of
        Net is similar in Stitch)

INTRODUCTION

By Dr. A.C. Haddon

It is a great pleasure to me to introduce Mr. Williamson's book to the notice of ethnologists
and the general public, as I am convinced that it will be read with interest and profit.

Perhaps I may be permitted in this place to make a few personal remarks. Mr. Williamson was
formerly a solicitor, and always had a great longing to see something of savage life, but it
was not till about four years ago that he saw his way to attempting the realisation of this
desire by an expedition to Melanesia. He made my acquaintance in the summer of 1908, and seeing
that he was so keenly interested, I lent him a number of books and all my MS. notes on Melanesia;
by the help of these and by the study of other books he gained a good knowledge of the ethnology
of that area. In November, 1908, he started for Oceania for the first time and reached Fiji,
from which place he had intended to start on his expedition. Circumstances over which he had
no control, however, prevented the carrying out of his original programme; so he went to Sydney,
and there arranged modified plans. He was on the point of executing these, when he was again
frustrated by a telegram from England which necessitated his immediate return. It was a sad
blow to him to have his long-cherished schemes thus thwarted and rendered abortive, but, undaunted,
he set about to plan another expedition. Accordingly, in January, 1910, he once more set sail
for Australia as a starting place for the Solomon Islands and British New Guinea, and this
time achieved success; the book which he now offers to the public is the result of this plucky
enterprise. In justice to the author it should be known that, owing to climatic and other conditions,
he was unwell during the whole of his time in New Guinea, and had an injured foot and leg that
hurt him every step he took. The only wonder is that he was able to accomplish so large and
so thorough a piece of work as he has done.

It is interesting to note the different ways by which various investigators have entered the
field of Ethnology. Some have approached it from the literary or classical side, but very few
indeed of these have ever had any experience in the field. The majority of field workers have
had a previous training in science--zoology not unnaturally has sent more recruits than any
other branch of science. A few students have been lawyers, but so far as I am aware Mr. Williamson
is the first British lawyer who has gone into the field, and he has proved that legal training
may be a very good preliminary discipline for ethnological investigation in the field, as it
gives invaluable practice in the best methods of acquiring and sifting of evidence. A lawyer
must also necessarily have a wide knowledge of human nature and an appreciation of varied ways
of thought and action.

It was with such an equipment and fortified by extensive reading in Ethnology, that Mr. Williamson
was prepared for his self-imposed task. Proof of his powers of observation will be found in
the excellent descriptions of objects of material culture with which he has presented us.

I now turn to some of the scientific aspects of his book. Mr. Williamson especially set before
himself the work of investigating some tribes in the mountainous hinterland of the Mekeo district.
This was a most happy selection, though no one could have foreseen the especial interest of
these people.

Thanks mainly to the systematic investigations of Dr. Seligmann and to the sporadic observations
of missionaries, government officials and travellers, we have a good general knowledge of many
of the peoples of the eastern coast of the south-eastern peninsula of New Guinea, and of some
of the islands from the Trobriands to the Louisiades. The Ethnology of the fertile and populous
Mekeo district has been mainly made known to us by the investigations of various members of
the Sacred Heart Mission, and by Dr. Seligmann. What little we know of the Papuan Gulf district
is due to missionaries among the coastal tribes, Mr. James Chalmers and Mr. W. Holmes. Dr.
G. Landtman is at present investigating the natives of the delta of the Fly river and Daudai.
The natives of the Torres Straits islands have also been studied as fully as is possible. But
of the mountain region lying behind the Mekeo district very little indeed has been published;
so Mr. Williamson's book fills a gap in our knowledge of Papuan ethnology.

We have as yet a very imperfect knowledge of the ethnological history of New Guinea. Speaking
very broadly, it is generally admitted that the bulk of the population belongs to the Papuan
race, a dark-skinned, woolly-haired people who have also spread over western Oceania; but,
to a greater or less extent, New Guinea has been subject to cultural and racial influences
from all sides, except from Australia, where the movement has been the other way. Thus the
East Indian archipelago has directly affected parts of Netherlands New Guinea, and its influence
is to be traced to a variable degree in localities in the Bismarck archipelago, German New
Guinea (Kaiser Wilhelm's Land), Western Oceania, and British New Guinea or Papua, as it is
termed officially.

The south-eastern peninsula of New Guinea--or at all events the coastal regions--has been largely
affected by immigrants, who were themselves a mixed people, and who came later at various times.
It is to these immigrants that Mr. Ray and I applied the term Melanesian (Ray, S. H., and Haddon,
A. C., "A Study of the Languages of Torres Straits," Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., 3rd ser., IV.,
1897, p. 509). Early in 1894, Mr. Ray read a paper before the Anthropological Institute (Journ.
Anth. Inst., XXIV., p. 15), in which he adhered to our former discrimination of two linguistic
stocks and added a third type of language composed of a mixture of the other two, for which
he proposed the name Melano-Papuan. These languages, according to Mr. Ray, occur in the Trobriands,
Woodlarks and the Louisiades, and similar languages are found in the northern Solomon Islands.
For some years I had been studying the decorative art of British New Guinea, and from physical
and artistic and other cultural reasons had come to the conclusion that the Melanesians of
British New Guinea should be broken up into two elements: one consisting of the Motu and allied
Melanesians, and the other of the inhabitants of the Massim district--an area extending slightly
beyond that of Mr. Ray's Melano-Papuans ("The Decorative Art of British New Guinea," Cunningham
Memoirs, X., Roy. Irish Acad., 1894, pp. 253-269). I reinforced my position six years later
("Studies in the Anthropo-geography of British New Guinea," Journ. Roy. Geog. Soc., 1900, pp.
265, 414). Dr. Seligmann, in his valuable paper "A Classification of the Natives of British
New Guinea" (Journ. Roy. Anth. Inst., XXXIX., 1909, pp. 246, 315) corroborated these views
and designated the two groups of "Melanesians" as the Eastern and Western Papuo-Melanesians.
The following year he published the great book to which Mr. Williamson so frequently refers,
and in which this classification is maintained, and these two groups together with the Papuans,
are termed Papuasians.

The Motu stock of the Western Papuo-Melanesians have extended their dispersal as far as the
Mekeo district, where they came into contact with other peoples. It has been shown that the
true Papuans are a narrow-headed people, but there are some puzzling exceptions, the explanation
of which is not yet ascertained. The Papuo-Melanesians contain a somewhat broad-headed element,
and there is a slightly broad-headed population in the central range of the south-east peninsula,
the extent of which has not yet been determined. The questions naturally arise: (1) Is the
true Papuan a variable stock including both long- broad-headed elements? or (2) Does the broad-headed
element belong to an immigrant people? or, again (3) Is there an hitherto unidentified indigenous
broad-headed race? I doubt if the time is ripe for a definite answer to any of these questions.
Furthermore, we have yet to assign to their original sources the differences in culture which
characterise various groups of people in New Guinea. Something has been done in this direction,
but much more has yet to be learnt.

So far I have not referred to a Negrito element in the Ethnology of New Guinea. From time to
time we have heard rumours of pygmy people, and German travellers have recorded very short
individuals in Kaiser Wilhelm's Land; but it was not till the expedition to Netherlands New
Guinea of the British Ornithological Union of 1910-11 that a definite pygmy race was demonstrated.
I think this can be no longer denied, and the observations made by German ethnologists show
that the race in a more or less modified state is widely spread. Now Mr. Williamson, whose
work in New Guinea was contemporaneous with that of the Netherlands New Guinea expedition,
adduces evidence that this is also the case in British territory. It is worth recalling that
de Quatrefages and Hamy (Crania Ethnica, 1882, pp. 207-210, 253-256) distinguish a "Negrito-Papuan"
and a "Papuan" element in the Torres Straits. This problem will be discussed in Vol. I. of
the Reports of the Cambridge Expedition to Torres Straits. I feel little doubt that Mr. Williamson
has shown strong evidence that the Mafulu and probably other adjacent mountain tribes are essentially
a pygmy--that is to say a Negrito--people who have been modified to some extent by Papuan and
possibly Papuo-Melanesian influence, both physical and cultural. He has marshalled his data
with great skill, and has dissected out, as it were, the physical and cultural elements of
the Negrito substratum. It only remains for other observers to study Negritos in other parts
of New Guinea to see how far these claims can be substantiated. It is evident therefore that,
apart from the valuable detailed information which Mr. Williamson has given us concerning a
hitherto unknown tribe, he has opened up a problem of considerable interest and magnitude.

A.C. Haddon.

THE MAFULU MOUNTAIN PEOPLE OF BRITISH NEW GUINEA

CHAPTER I

Introductory

The map appended to this volume is (with the exception of the red lines and red lettering upon
it) a reproduction of a portion of the map relating to the explorations and surveys of Dr.
Strong, Mr. Monckton and Captain Barton, which was published in the Geographical Journal for
September, 1908, and the use of which has been kindly permitted me by the Royal Geographical
Society. I have eliminated the red route lines which appear in the original map, so as to avoid
confusion with the red lines which I have added. The unbroken red lines and the red lettering
upon my map are copied from a map, also kindly placed at my disposal, which has been recently
prepared by Father Fillodean of the Mission of the Sacred Heart, and these lines mark roughly
what the Fathers of the Mission believe to be the boundaries of the several linguistic areas
within the district covered by their map. It will be observed that some of these lines are
not continued so as to surround and complete the definition of the areas which they indicate;
but this defect is unavoidable, as the Fathers' map only covered a relatively small area, and
even in that map the lines were not all carried to its margin. It will also be noticed that,
though the Fathers introduce the two names Oru Lopiku and Boboi as being linguistically distinct,
they have not indicated the boundary line between the two areas. Father Egedi, however, informed
me that this boundary passes along the ridge of hills south of the Ufafa river as far as Mt.
Eleia, and thence along the Ukalama river to the Kuni boundary. The Ukalama river is not shown
in the Geographical Society's map; but I may say that it is shown in the Fathers' map as rising
in Mt. Eleia, and flowing thence in a south-easterly direction, and so joining the St. Joseph
river close to Dilava. The broken red line upon my map does not appear in the Fathers' map,
but has been added by me to indicate what, I understand, the Fathers believe to be a continued
boundary, so far as ascertained, of the Fuyuge linguistic area, called by them the Mafulu area,
to which I am about to draw attention.

The term Mafulu is the Kuni pronunciation of Mambule, which is the name, as used by themselves,
of the people who live in a group of villages within and near the north-westerly corner of
the area of the Fuyuge-speaking people, whose Papuan language, so far as ascertained, appears,
subject to local dialectal differences, to be the same, and may, I was informed, be regarded
as one common language throughout the Fuyuge area.

The Fathers of the Mission have adopted the name Mafulu in a wider sense, as including all
the people with whom they have come in contact of the Fuyuge-speaking area; and, though my
investigations, which form the subject-matter of this book, have been conducted only in the
neighbourhood of Mafulu itself, I was assured that, so far as the Fathers have been able to
ascertain, all these Fuyuge people not only have similar languages, but also are substantially
similar in physique and in culture. My observations concerning the Mafulu people may therefore,
if this statement is correct, be regarded as applying, not only to the inhabitants of the portion
of the north-westerly corner of the Fuyuge area in which the Mafulu group of villages is placed,
but to those of the whole of the north-westerly portion of the area, and generally in a greater
or less degree of accuracy to those of the northerly and north-easterly parts of the area,
and possibly the southerly ones also.

The boundaries of this Fuyuge-speaking area can hardly be regarded as definitely ascertained;
and the discrepancies, even as regards the courses of the rivers and the positions of the mountains,
which appear in the few available maps make it difficult to deal with the question. The area,
so far as actually ascertained by the Fathers of the Mission, roughly speaking, covers, and
seems to extend also some distance to the south or south-west of a triangle, the western apex
of which is the junction of the river Kea with the river Aduala (a tributary of the St. Joseph),
[2] whose north-eastern apex is Mt. Albert Edward, and whose south-eastern apex is Mt. Scratchley.
It includes the valley of the Aduala river and its streams (except those flowing into it from
the north in the region of the western apex of the triangle) within its northern boundary,
and the valley of the upper Vanapa river and its rivers and streams in the neighbourhood of
its eastern boundary; but this eastern boundary has been found to extend also so as to include
the upper valley of the river Chirima. How far the area extends to the south or south-west
of the triangle above mentioned appears to be uncertain.

The linguistic area to the north of the Mafulu or Fuyuge people is that of the Ambo people,
who are somewhat similar in appearance to the Mafulu, and whose language is also Papuan, and,
though differing from the Mafulu language, is, I was told, somewhat similar to it in grammatical
construction and as regards a few of its words. The area to the west is that of the Kuni people,
whose language is Melanesian, but whose ordinary modes of life are, I was informed, more like
those of the Mafulu than are those of the Papuan-speaking Ambo. The areas to the east and south
cannot be so definitely stated, but are dealt with below.

As regards these Ambo people I may, in view of divergences of names which appear in maps, explain
that Ambo is a contraction of Ambore, and is the name given to the people by their Mafulu neighbours,
whilst Afoa is the name given to them by the Kuni people, and is adopted in the Geographical
Society's map. [3] As regards the Kuni people, their name is the one adopted by themselves.

Concerning the boundaries of the Fuyuge linguistic area as above indicated, and the people
whose districts adjoin that area, I propose here to draw attention to four names, and to refer
to some observations bearing on the subject of the probable Fuyuge boundary which are to be
found in existing literature.

The term Kovio, though primarily the name of Mt. Yule, and properly applicable to the people
living in the neighbourhood of that mountain, is now, I think, often used to express all the
mountain tribes of the hinterland of the Mekeo and Pokau, and perhaps the Kabadi, districts.
But the use of this name has not, I believe, been generally associated with any question of
linguistics.

The area in the map which is called by the Fathers Boboi is occupied by people whose language,
I was told by the Fathers, is Papuan, but is distinct from the languages of the Ambo and the
Fuyuge areas.

Kamaweka is a name which appears in several of Dr. Seligmann's publications. It seems to have
been originally used by Captain Barton to designate the natives of the district of which Inavaurene,
to the north-east of the Mekeo plains, is the centre, but to have been afterwards regarded
as a somewhat more general term; and I think Dr. Seligmann uses it in a very general sense,
almost, if not quite, equivalent to the wide application above referred to of the term Kovio,
and which might include the Papuan-speaking Boboi and Ambo people, and even perhaps the people
of the northern Mafulu villages. [4] But here again the use of the name has, I think, no reference
to linguistics.

If the Fathers' linguistic boundary lines are substantially correct, each of the two terms
Kovio and Kamaweka, as now used, would appear to cover more than one linguistic area; and in
any case these terms seem to have widened and to have become somewhat indefinite. It will be
seen on reference to the map and to Father Egedi's information as to the Oru Lopiku and Boboi
boundaries that both Mt. Yule and Inavaurene are within the area which the Fathers call Oru
Lopiku, but that Inavaurene is not far from their Boboi area. I suggest that it would be convenient
for the present, pending further investigation and delimitation on the spot, and until we know
something of the difference between the languages of the Oru Lopiku and Boboi people, to adopt
the term Kovio as a general name for, and confine it to, the two areas Boboi and Oru Lopiku;
though for linguistic purposes the names Boboi and Oru Lopiku, which at present indicate very
little to us, may eventually be accepted and come into general use.

The Koiari people of the foothills and lateral spurs behind the Motu area, also referred to
from time to time in Dr. Seligmann's writings, must be eastern next door neighbours of the
Fuyuge-speaking people, the western boundary of these Koiari being stated by him to be the
Vanapa river, [5] and they being in fact regarded by him as being the eastern neighbours of
the natives of "the mountains inland of Mekeo Nara and Kabadi," [6] and being referred to by
him as being the people from whose district the Kamaweka and Kuni are reached by "passing westward"--the
word used is "eastward," but this is obviously a printer's error--"in the mountains, keeping
roughly parallel with the coast." [7]

Turning to the question of the Fuyuge boundary, Dr. Strong says that the Fuyuge people occupy
the upper waters of the St. Joseph river, [8] and he is quoted by Dr. Seligmann as having stated
that the Afoa language "is spoken in the villages on Mt. Pizoko and the northern slopes of
Mt. Davidson," and that "the Afoa villages lie to the north of the Fuyuge-speaking communities,
stretching westward for an unknown distance behind Mt. Davidson." [9] If the information given
to me verbally by the Fathers of the Mission of the Sacred Heart and the red linguistic boundary
lines roughly drawn by them, and introduced into my map, be correct, these statements require
modification, for according to the Fathers the Mafulu or Fuyuge-speaking area does not include
any part of the St. Joseph river, as its extreme north-westerly corner lies to the east of
the junction--close to the boundary line between the Afoa (Ambo) and the Kuni areas--of the
rivers Alabula and Aduala, and Mt. Pizoko is within the Fuyuge area, and not within that of
the Afoa, and Mt. Davidson is within the Boboi area. I think that, though the Fathers' lines
are admittedly not exact, they and the information supplied by the Fathers to me are likely
to be more trustworthy in these respects, especially as regards boundaries near to the actual
Mafulu villages, than the earlier statements of Dr. Strong, as they are the outcome of recent
and careful investigation; and, as regards Mt. Pizoko, I may mention that Dr. Strong himself
seems to have subsequently regarded that mountain as being within the Mafulu district, [10]
which brings it into the Fuyuge area.

The inclusion of the upper valley of the river Chirima within the Fuyuge or Mafulu-speaking
area is perhaps surprising, as this valley is separated from the general Fuyuge area by one
of the southern ridges of Mt. Albert Edward, and more or less so by the ridges of Mt. Stone
Wigg and the Wharton range, and as the Chirima is a tributary flowing into the Mambare river,
which is one of the great watercourses of Northern New Guinea. The Mafulu Fathers, however,
had no doubt as to the correctness of the inclusion, which seems to open out the possibility
of some, at all events, of the Fuyuge people having northern associations; and indeed Monseigneur
de Boismenu told me that he believed that the Mafulu people were in touch with Northern New
Guinea, and got some of their shell ornaments, or the shells from which they were made, from
the northern coast.

It is interesting, therefore, to turn for the purpose of comparison to the report of Mr. Monckton's
expedition to Mt. Albert Edward by way of the Upper Chirima valley in 1906 [11] and the illustrations
accompanying it, with which I incorporate a description of the people of this valley given
to Dr. Seligmann by Mr. Money, who was with Mr. Monckton. [12]

