So soon as he had finished his course of philosophy, he was made Master of Arts(91) with great
applause, and having furnished his mind with an uncommon measure of the ancillary knowledge
of letters, he began the study of divinity, with a view to serve God in the holy ministry.
At which time there happened to be a vacancy in the college of Glasgow, by the resignation
of Mr. James Dalrymple of Stair, who had been Mr. Binning’s Master. This gentleman was so great
and so good a man, that it is impossible to avoid giving an account of some of the remarkable
things of his life. The first employment he had, was in the army, being a captain in William
Earl of Glencairn’s regiment of foot; but as he had made his studies with great application,
at the earnest request of the professors of the university of Glasgow, he stood as candidate
for a chair of philosophy, in a comparative trial, (in buff and scarlet, the military dress
of those days,) to which he was with great applause preferred. In this station he was greatly
esteemed for his uncommon abilities in philosophy, and other parts of learning. But being resolved
to follow the study of the law, he soon resigned his office of professor, and entered Advocate
upon the 7th of February, 1648; and quickly distinguished himself by his pleadings before the
Court of Session, avoiding always to take any employment, either as advocate, or judge, in
criminal matters, though often respectively pressed to accept of both; which proceeded from
a delicacy in his opinion, lest, to wit, he might possibly be the instrument either of making
the innocent suffer, or to acquit the guilty. In this situation he continued, till the Tender
was imposed, when he, with many other eminent lawyers, withdrew from the bar. On June 26th,
1657, he was, by a commission signed by General Monk,(92) in name of the Protector’s council
of Scotland, appointed to be one of the Judges, which was soon confirmed by a nomination directly
from the Protector himself, in the month of July thereafter, which he had no inclination to
accept of, being himself no favourer of the usurpation. For as he had been secretary to the
commission which had been sent to the king to Breda, he had waited upon his majesty upon his
landing in the North. However, being importunately pressed to accept by many eminent men, and
amongst them by several ministers, who all distinguished between his serving as one of the
Council under the Protector, and exercising the office of a Judge, by administrating justice
to his fellow subjects, he did accept, and his act of admission only bears his giving his oath,
de fideli administratione. After the Restoration, he was made by the king one of the ordinary
Lords of Session, by his majesty’s nomination, dated at Whitehall, February 13th, 1661-2. And
in the year 1671, he was created President of that Court, in the room of Sir John Gilmour of
Craigmiller. In the parliament 1681, he made a great appearance for securing the Protestant
religion, and by reason of the difficulties of the times, he desired leave of his majesty to
retire from business, and live quietly in the country. But in this he was prevented by a commission,
dated the 14th of October, 1681, which having passed the great seal, was produced the 1st of
November thereafter, by which commission he was superseded as President of the Session, and
in the year 1682, was obliged for his safety to retire to Holland. For though he had the king’s
promise that he should live undisturbed, yet he was let know that he could not be in safety,
and after his retreat to Holland, several unjust but fruitless attempts were made to have him
tried for treason, both before the parliament and justiciary, for no other reason than that
he had always with sincerity and firmness, given his opinion to the king and his ministers,
against the measures that were then followed, and which in the following reign, at length brought
about the glorious Revolution, at which time, anno 1668, he attended King William in that expedition,
by the success of which we were most happily delivered from tyranny and slavery. On November
1st, 1689, Sir James Dalrymple of Stair, his letter as President of the Session was produced
and recorded, and he was accordingly admitted and restored to his office. In the year 1690
he was created a Viscount upon account of his great services and merit. He published, while
in Holland, his Institutions of the law of Scotland, (a more full edition of which came out
in 1693,) and two volumes in folio, of Decisions, from the year 1661, to 1681 inclusive. He
also published a system of physics,(93) valued greatly at the time. And a book entitled, A
Vindication of the divine attributes, was also his, in which there is discovered great force
of argument and knowledge. He was looked upon before his death, as the living oracle of our
law, and at present his Institutions are appealed to, as containing the true and solid principles
of it.(94)

Mr. Binning, who had lately been his scholar, was determined after much entreaty, (of which
we shall presently give an account,) to stand as a candidate for that post. The Masters of
the college, according to the usual laudable custom, emitted a programme, and sent it to all
the universities in the kingdom, inviting such as had a mind to dispute for a profession of
philosophy, to sist themselves before them, and offer themselves to compete for that preferment,
giving assurance that without partiality and respect of persons, the place should be conferred
upon him who should be found dignior et doctior.

The Ministers of the city of Glasgow considering how much it was the interest of the Church,
that well qualified persons be put into the profession of philosophy, and that Universities
by this means become most useful seminaries for the Church; and that such as had served as
Regents in the college, were ordinarily brought out to the ministry, who, as the Divinity chairs
became vacant, were advanced to that honour,—many instances of which I am able to condescend
upon, and they knowing that Mr. Binning was eminently pious, and one of a solid judgment, as
well as of a bright genius, set upon him to sist himself among the other competitors, but had
great difficulty to overcome his modesty. However, they at last prevailed with him to declare,
before the Masters, his willingness to undertake the dispute with others.

There were two candidates more, one of them had the advantage of great interest with Doctor
Strang, principal of the college at that time, and the other a scholar of great abilities,
and of the same sentiments with the Doctor, in some problematical points of divinity, which
with great subtilty had been debated in the schools. Mr. Binning so managed the dispute and
acquitted himself in all the parts of trial, that to the conviction of the judges he very much
darkened his rivals. And as to the precise point of qualification, in respect of literature,
cut off all shadow of a demur and pretence of difficulty in the decision. However, the Doctor
and some of the Faculty who joined him, though they could not pretend that the candidate they
appeared for, had an equality, much less a superiority in the dispute, yet they argued, a cœteris
paribus, that the person they inclined to prefer, being a citizen & son, having a good competency
of learning, and being a person of more years, had greater experience than Mr. Binning could
be supposed to have, and consequently was more fit to be a teacher of youth. Mr. Binning being
but yesterday a fellow student with those he was to teach, it was not to be expected, that
the students would behave to him with that respect and regard which should be paid to a master.
But to this it was replied, that Mr. Binning was such a pregnant scholar, so wise and sedate
as to be above all the follies and vanities of youth, that he knew very well how to let no
man despise his youth, his wit was neither vain nor light, and his fancy was obedient to his
reason, and what was wanting in years was sufficiently made up by his singular endowments,
and more than ordinary qualifications. A Member of the Faculty, perceiving the struggle among
them to be great (and indeed the affair seemed to have been argued very plausibly on both sides),
proposed a dispute between the two candidates extempore, upon any subject they should be pleased
to prescribe. This being considered by the Faculty, did quickly put a period to the division
among them, and those who had opposed him not being willing to engage their friend again in
the lists, with such an able antagonist, yielded the question, and Mr. Binning was elected.(95)

Mr. Binning was not full nineteen years of age, when he commenced Regent and Professor of Philosophy,(96)
and though he had not time to prepare a system of any part of his profession, being instantly
after his election to take up his class, yet such was the quickness and fertility of his invention,
the tenaciousness of his memory, and the solidity of his judgment, that his dictates(97) to
the scholars had a great depth of learning of that kind, and perspicuity of expression. And
I am assured, that he was among the first in Scotland that began to reform Philosophy from
the barbarous terms, and unintelligible distinctions of the schoolmen, and the many vain disputes
and trifling subtilties, which rather perplexed the minds of the youth, than furnished them
with solid and useful knowledge.(98)

He continued in this profession for the space of three years, and discharged his trust so well,
that he gained the general applause of the university for his academical exercises. And this
was the more wonderful, that having turned his thoughts towards the ministry, he carried on
his theological studies at the same time, and made vast improvements therein, to which he was
enabled, by his deep penetration, and a memory so retentive, that he scarcely forgot any thing
he had read or heard. It was easy and ordinary for him to transcribe any sermon, after he returned
to his chamber, at such a full length, as that the intelligent and judicious reader who heard
it preached  should not find one sentence to be wanting.

During this period of his life, he gave a proof and evidence of the great progress he had made
in the knowledge of Divinity, by a composure on that choice passage of the Holy Scripture,
2 Cor. v. 14, “For the love of God constraineth us, because we thus judge, that if one died
for all, then were all dead.”

This performance he sent to a certain gentlewoman for her private edification, who had been
detained at Edinburgh for a long time with business of importance, and having perused the same,
she judged it was a sermon of some eminent minister in the West of Scotland, and put it into
the hands of the then Provost of Edinburgh for his opinion, who was so well satisfied with
it, that supposing it to be taken from the mouth of one whom the city had formerly resolved
to call, was restless till a call was brought about to him, to be one of the ministers of the
city. But when the lady returned back to Glasgow, she found her mistake, by Mr. Binning’s asking
the discourse from her. This was the first discovery he had given of his great dexterity and
ability in explaining of Scripture. At the expiration of his third year as a professor of philosophy,
the parish of Govan, which lies adjacent to the city of Glasgow, and is within the bounds of
that presbytery, happened to be vacant. Before this time,(99) whoever was principal of the
college of Glasgow, was also minister of Govan. For Mr. Robert Boyd of Trochrigg,(100) (a person
of very great learning, as his commentary on the Epistle to the Ephesians, and his Hecatombe
Christiana testify) after he had been minister at Vertuille in France, and professor of Divinity
in Saumur, returned to Scotland, and was settled principal of the college, and minister of
Govan. But this being attended with inconveniences, an alteration was made, and the presbytery
having a view of supplying that vacancy with Mr. Binning, did take him upon trials, in order
to his being licensed as a preacher(101) and after he was licensed, he did preach at Govan,
to the great satisfaction of that people. Mr. Binning was sometime after called and invited
to be minister of the said parish, which call the presbytery heartily approved of, and entered
him upon trials for ordination, about the 22d year of his age, and as a part of trials, they
prescribed to him a common head, De concursu et influxu divino cum actionibus creaturarum,—the
occasion of which was, that Dr. Strang, principal of the College, and a member of the presbytery,
had vented some peculiar notions upon that profound subject. And having delivered a very elaborate
discourse, viva voce, to the admiration of all who heard it, he gave in, according to custom,
his thesis to be impugned by the members of the presbytery, which was the direct antithesis
of Doctor Strang’s opinion in his dictates to the students on that controversy. The Doctor
being pitched upon to be one of his opponents, found his credit and reputation much engaged,
and exerted his metaphysical and subtile talent on that occasion. But Mr. Binning maintained
his ground by the weight and solidity of his defence, to the great satisfaction of all that
were present, so that some were pleased to say, that young Mr. Binning appeared to be the old
learned Doctor; Nay, the Doctor himself after the recounter, admiring Mr Binning’s abilities
and parts, said, “Where hath this young man got all this learning and reading?”.(102) When
he had finished his trials, he had the unanimous approbation of the presbytery, nay, their
declaration and testimony of his fitness to be one of the ministers of the city, upon the first
vacancy. And I am assured, that at the very same time the Masters of the University had it
in their view to bring him back again to their society, whenever the profession of Divinity
should become vacant.

He was, considering his age, a prodigy of learning, for before he had arrived at the 26th year
of his life, he had such a large stock of useful knowledge, as to be philologus, philosophus,
and theologus præstans,(103) and might well have been an ornament to the most famous and flourishing
university in Europe. This was the more astonishing, if we consider his weakness and infirmity
of body, not being able to read much at one time, or to undergo the fatigue of assiduous study.
But this was well supplied, partly by a memory that retained every thing he heard or read,
and partly by a solid penetrating judgment, whereby he digested it well, and made it his own,
so that with a singular dexterity, he could bring it forth seasonably, and communicate it to
the use and advantage of others, drained from the dregs he found about it, or intermixed with
it; insomuch that his knowledge seemed rather to be born with him, than to have been acquired
by hard and laborious study.

From his childhood he knew the Scriptures, and from a boy had been under much deep and spiritual
exercise, until the time (or a little before it) of his entry upon the office of the ministry,
when he came to a great calm and lasting tranquillity of mind, being mercifully relieved of
all those doubtings which had for a long time greatly exercised him, and though he was of a
tender and weakly constitution, yet love to Christ, and a concern for the good of precious
souls committed to him, constrained him to such diligence in feeding the flock, as to spend
himself in the work of the ministry. It was observed of him, that he was not much averse at
any time from embracing an invitation to preach before the most experienced Christians, even
the learned professors of the university, and the Reverend ministers of the city, and when
one of his most intimate friends noticed herein a difference from that modesty and self denial,
which appeared in the whole of his way and conduct, he took the freedom to ask him, how he
came to be so easily prevailed with to preach before persons of so great experience and judgment,
whose eminent gifts and graces he highly valued and esteemed? He made this excellent reply,
that when he had a clear call to mention his blessed Master’s name in any place, he had no
more to say, but, “Here am I, send me. What am I that I should resist his heavenly call? And
when he, whose name is holy and reverend, is spoken of and to, and is there present, the presence
of no other person is to be regarded or dreaded, and under that impression, I forget who is
present, and who is absent.”

Though he was bookish, and much intent upon the fulfilling of his ministry, he turned his thoughts
to marriage, and did marry a virtuous and excellent person, Mistress Barbara Simpson,(104)
daughter of Mr. James Simpson, a minister in Ireland.(105) Upon the day on which he was to
be married, he went accompanied with his friends (amongst whom were some grave and worthy ministers)
to an adjacent country congregation, upon the day of their weekly sermon. The minister of the
parish(106) delayed sermon till they should come, hoping to put the work upon one of the ministers
he expected to be there. But all of them declining it, he next tried if he could prevail with
the bridegroom, and succeeded, though the invitation was not expected, and the nature of the
occasion seemed to be somewhat alien from his being employed in that work. It was no difficult
task to him upon a short warning to preach, having a prompt and ready gift. He was never at
a loss for words and matter, and having stepped aside a little time to premeditate and implore
his Master’s presence and assistance (for he was ever afraid to be alone in that work) he went
immediately to the pulpit, and preached upon 1 Pet i. 15 “But as he who hath called you is
holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation.” At which time, he was so remarkably helped,
that all acknowledged that God was with him of a truth. And the people of the parish, who had
come to hear their own minister, (a truly pious and excellent man,) were so surprised and taken
with him, as if God, besides his ordinary resident (so Mr. McWard expresses it) had sent them
an extraordinary ambassador to negotiate a peace between God and them, and a prompt paranymph
unto, and a skilful suitor of a spouse for Jesus Christ the blessed Bridegroom, that he might
present them as a chaste virgin to this divine Husband.

However he studied in his public discourses to condescend to the capacity of the meaner sort
of hearers, yet it must be owned, that his preaching gift was not so much accommodated and
suited to a country congregation, as it was to the judicious and learned. (107) The subjects
of sermons are so numerous and various, and the order of men’s disposing of their thoughts
upon these subjects so different, that a suit of clothes may be as soon made to answer every
man’s back, as a fixed and invariable method may be prescribed, that shall agree to every subject,
and every man’s taste. Mr. Binning’s method was singular and peculiar to himself, much after
the haranguing way.(108) He was no stranger to the rules of art, and knew well how to make
his method subservient to the subjects he handled. And though he tells not his discourse has
so many parts, yet it wanted not method, it being mani  mum artis celare artem.(109) His diction
and language is easy and fluent, neat and fine, void of all affectation and bombast. His style
is free from starch lusciousness and intricacy, every period has a kind of undesigned negligent
elegance, which arrests the reader’s attention, and makes what he says as apples of gold set
in pictures of silver, so that, considering the time when he lived, it might be said, that
he had carried the orator’s prize from his cotemporaries in Scotland, and was not at that time
inferior to the best pulpit orators in England, the English language having got its greatest
embellishments and refinings but of late years. In his Sermons, his matter gives life to his
words, and his words add a lustre to his matter. That great divine, Mr. James Durham,(110)
an excellent judge of men, gave this verdict of him, that “there is no speaking after Mr. Binning,”
and truly he had the tongue of the learned, and knew how to speak a word in season. The subject-matter
of his Sermons is mostly practical, and yet rational and argumentive, fit to inform the understanding
of his hearers, and move their affections and when controversies come in his way, he shows
great acuteness and judgment in discussing and determining them, and no less skill in applying
them to practice. His discourses are so solid and substantial, so heavenly and sublime, that
they not only feed but feast the reader, as with marrow and fatness. In the most of them, we
meet with much of the sublime, expressed in a most lofty, pathetic, and moving manner. Mr.
M’Waid says in his letter, “That as to the whole of Mr. Binning’s writings, I know no man’s
pen on the heads he hath handled more adapted for edification, or which, with a pleasant violence,
will sooner find or force a passage into the heart of a judicious experienced reader, and cast
fire, even ere he is aware (O happy surprise!) into his affections, and set them into a flame.”
And in another part of the same letter, he says, “The subjects he discourses upon are handled
with such a pleasant and profitable variety of thought and expression, that the hearer or reader
is taken with it, as if he had never met with it before. He was such a skilful scribe, as knew
how to bring out of his store things new and old; the old with such sweetness and savour as
it seemed still new, and the new retained its first sweetness so as never to grow old.”

He and some young ministers in the same presbytery, who had been students of divinity when
he was professor of philosophy, did keep private meetings for Christian fellowship, and their
mutual improvement. But finding that he was in danger of being puffed up with the high opinion
they had of him, he broke up these meetings, though he still kept up a brotherly correspondence
with them, for the rigorous prosecution of their ministerial work. He studied to be clothed
with humility, and to hide his attainments under that veil. Though he wanted not matter and
words wherewith to please and profit all his hearers, yet at every thought of his appearing
in public to speak of God and Christ to men, his soul was filled with a holy tremor, which
he vented by saying, “Ah! Lord, I am a child and cannot speak. Teach me what I shall say of
thee, who cannot order my speech by reason of darkness.” In his first Sermon, on the fourth
question of our Shorter Catechism, he expresses himself in a most elegant and rapturous manner.
“We are now,” says he, “about this question, What God is? But who can answer it? Or if answered,
who can understand it? It should astonish us in the very entry, to think we are about to speak
and to hear of his majesty, ‘whom eye hath not seen, nor ear heard,’ nor hath it entered into
the heart of any creature to consider what he is. Think ye, blind men could understand a pertinent
discourse of light and colours? Would they form any suitable notion of that they had never
seen, and cannot be known but by seeing? What an ignorant speech would a deaf man make of sound,
when a man cannot so much as know what it is, but by hearing of it? How then can we speak of
God who dwells in inaccessible light, since though we had our eyes opened, yet they are far
less proportioned to that resplendent brightness, than a blind eye is to the sun’s light?”

He was a great student in the books of creation and providence, and took much pleasure in meditating
upon what is written in these volumes. The wonders he discovered in both, led him up to the
infinitely wise and powerful Maker and Preserver of all things. Once, when he came to visit
a gentleman of good learning, and his intimate acquaintance, the gentleman took him to his
garden, and in their walk he discoursed with him to his great surprise of the objective declarations,
which every thing makes of its Almighty Creator and talked of the wisdom and goodness of God,
particularly in clothing the earth with a green garb, rather than with a garment of any other
colour, and having plucked a flower from it, he made a most savoury spiritual discourse. He
so dissected and anatomized the same, as to set forth the glorious perfections of its Maker
in a most taking and entertaining manner.

But the main object of his pious and devout contemplations was God in Christ reconciling the
world to himself. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, had shined into
his heart to give him the light of the knowledge of God, in the face of Jesus Christ, so that
he not only understood the mysteries of the kingdom of God himself, but it was given to him
to make others know them. His preaching was in the demonstration of the Spirit, and of power.
His Sermons are the very transcript of what had past betwixt God and his own soul. He spoke
and wrote his experimental knowledge, and did both speak and write because he believed He did
earnestly contend for the articles of faith and truths of religion, and could never think of
parting with one hoof, or the least grain of truth, being persuaded, that Christian concord
must have truth for its foundation, and holiness for its attendant, without which it will decline
into a defection, and degenerate into a conspiracy against religion. As to the duties of Christianity,
he enforced the performance of these with all the arguments of persuasion, so that, through
the blessing of God, his pulpit discourses became the power of God to the illumination of the
understandings of his hearers, the renovation of their natures, the reformation of their lives,
and the salvation of their souls.

The difficult part of a reprover he acted in the most prudent and gaining manner, when he did
lick with his tongue the mote out of his brother’s eye, he did it with all tenderness, and
with the tear in his own. His words wanted neither point nor edge for drawing the blood, when
the case of the offender made it an indispensable duty; and when he was necessitated to use
sharpness with any, they were convinced that he honestly and sincerely intended their spiritual
good. His compassion on the ignorant and them that were out of the way, made it evident how
much he considered himself as encompassed with infirmities, and so within the hazard of being
tempted.

He was a person of exemplary moderation and sobriety of spirit, had healing methods much at
heart, and studied to promote love and peace among his brethren in the ministry. He vigorously
contributed to the recovery of the humanity of Christianity, which had been much lost in the
differences of the times, and the animosities which followed thereupon. These virtues and graces
had such an ascendant in his soul, that when he carried coals about with him, taken from the
altar to warm the souls of all, with whom he conversed, with love to God, his truths, interests
and people, so he carried sanctuary water about with him to cool and extinguish what of undue
passion he perceived to accompany the zeal of good and well designing persons; a temper that
is rarely found in one of his age. But ripe harvest grapes were found upon this vine in the
beginning of spring; and no wonder, since he lived so near the Sun of Righteousness, and lay
under the plentiful showers of divine grace, and the ripening influences of the Holy Spirit.

The prevailing of the English sectarians under Oliver Cromwell, to the overthrow of the Presbyterian
interest in England, and the various attempts which they made in Scotland, on the constitution
and discipline of this church, was one of the greatest difficulties which the ministry had
then to struggle with. Upon this he made the following most excellent reflection, in a Sermon
preached on a day of public humiliation, “What if the Lord hath defaced all that his kingdom
was instrumental in building up in England, that he alone may have the glory in a second temple
more glorious?”(111) And when he observed, that the zeal of many for the Solemn League and
Covenant, (by which they were sworn to endeavour the preservation of the reformed religion
in Scotland, and the reformation of religion in the kingdoms of England and Ireland,) was not
attended with a suitable amendment of their own lives, he takes up a bitter lamentation over
them in a very remarkable paragraph. “Alas! we deceive ourselves with the noise of a covenant,
and a cause of God, we cry it up as an antidote against all evils, use it as a charm, even
as the Jews did their temple, and in the mean time we do not care how we walk before God, or
with our neighbours. Well, thus saith the Lord, ‘Trust ye not in lying words, saying, The temple
of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord are these. 4-6. If drunkenness
reign among you, if filthiness, swearing, oppression, cruelty reign among you, your covenant
is but a lie, all your professions are but lying words, and shall never keep you in your inheritances
and dwellings. Mic. vi. 8. 11, 12, and this he prefers to your public ordinances, your fasting,
covenanting, preaching, and such like.”(112)

When the unhappy distinction betwixt the public Resolutioners and Protesters(113) took place
in this church. Mr. Binning was of the last denomination. This distinction proved to be of
fatal consequences. He saw some of the evils of it in his own time, and being of a catholic
and healing spirit, with a view to the cementing of differences, he wrote an excellent Treatise
of Christian love,(114) which contains very strong and pathetic passages, most apposite to
this subject, some of which we will afterwards have occasion to quote. He was no fomenter of
faction, but studious of the public tranquillity. He was a man of moderate principles and temperate
passions. He was far from being confident, or vehement in the managing of public affairs, never
imposing or overbearing upon others, but willingly hearkened to advice, and yielded to reason.

After he had laboured four years in the ministry, serving God with his spirit in the gospel
of his Son, whom he preached, warning every man and teaching every man in great ministerial
wisdom and freedom, that he might present every man perfect in Christ Jesus—whereunto he laboured,
strong according to his working, which wrought in him mightily,—;he died of a consumption,
when he was scarce come to the prime and vigour of life, entering on the twenty sixth year
of his age, leaving behind him a sweet savour after he was gone, and an epistle of commendation
upon the hearts of his hearers. While he lived, he was highly valued and esteemed, having been
a successful instrument of saving himself and them that heard him, of turning sinners unto
righteousness, and of perfecting the saints, and died much lamented by all good people, who
had the opportunity and advantage of knowing him. He was a person of singular piety, of a humble,
meek, and peaceable temper, a judicious and lively preacher, nay, so extraordinary a person,
that he was justly accounted a prodigy for the pregnancy of his natural parts, and his great
proficiency in human learning, and knowledge of divinity. He was too shining a light to shine
long and burned so intensely that he was soon put out. But he now shines in the kingdom of
his Father, in a more conspicuous and refulgent manner, even as the brightness of the firmament,
and as the stars for ever and ever.

The last Sermons he preached were those on Rom. viii. 14, 15: “For as many as are led by the
Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. “We cry, Abba, Father.” “This (says he,) is much for
our comfort, that from whomsoever, and whatsoever corner in the world, prayers come up to him,
they cannot want acceptance. All languages, all countries, all places are sanctified by Jesus
Christ, that whosoever calls upon the name of the Lord from the ends of the earth, shall be
saved. And truly it is a sweet meditation to think, that from the ends of the earth the cries
of souls are heard; and that the end is as near heaven as the middle, and a wilderness as near
as a paradise, that though we understand not one another, yet we have one loving and living
Father, that understands all our meanings. And so the different languages and dialects of the
members of this body make no confusion in heaven, but meet together in his heart and affection,
and are as one perfume, one incense, sent up from the whole catholic church, which is here
scattered upon the earth. O that the Lord would persuade us to cry this way to our Father in
all our necessities!”(115) Thus having contemplated that subject concerning the adoption of
children, he was taken hence to the enjoyment of the inheritance reserved in the heavens for
them, and the Spirit called him by death, as the voice did John the divine, Rev. iv. 1, “Come
up hither.”

He was buried in the churchyard of Govan, where Mr. Patrick Gillespie,(116) then principal
of the university of Glasgow, at his own proper charges, (as I am credibly informed,) caused
a monument(117) to be erected for him, on which there is to this day the following inscription
in Latin:

HIC SITVS EST MR. HVGO BINNINGVS, VIR PIETATE, FACVNDIA, DOCTRINA CLARVS, PHILOLOGVS, PHILOSOPHVS,
THEOLOGVS PRSÆ, PRÆCO DENIQVE EVANGELII FIDELIS ET EXIMIVS, QVI E MEDIO RERVM CVRSV SVBLATVS,
ANNO ÆTATIS 26, DOM AVTEM 1653. MVTAVIT PATRIAM NON SOCIETEM, EO QVOD VIVVS CVM DEO AMBVLAVIT,
ET SI QVID VLTRA INQVIRAS CÆTERA SILEO, CVM NEC TV NEC MARMOR HOC CAPIAT

He left behind him a disconsolate widow, and an only son, called John after the grandfather,
to whom the grandfather at his death had left the estate of Dalvennan,(118) but John having
been engaged in the insurrection at Bothwell bridge, anno 1679, it was forfeited, and he continued
dispossessed of it till the year 1690, when, by the 18th act of parliament in the said year,
the forfeitures and fines past since the year 1665, to the 5th day of November, 1688, were
rescinded.(119) His widow was afterwards married to one Mr. James Gordon,(120) a presbyterian
minister for some time in the kingdom of Ireland. She lived to a great age, and died in the
year 1694, at Paisley in the shire of Renfrew, about four or five miles from Govan; which,
when the people of that parish heard, the savoury memory they still had of their worthy pastor,
made them to desire the friends of the defunct, to allow them to give her a decent and honourable
burial, beside her deceased husband, undertaking to defray all the charges of the funeral,
which was done accordingly. And to this day Mr. Binning is mentioned among them with particular
veneration. He was succeeded by Mr David Vetch,(121) who likewise died young.

Before I conclude this Relation, it is proper I give some account of his writings. The books
published at different times under his name, which are contained in this volume, are all posthumous.
Wherefore it will not be strange, if the reader shall meet with some passages in them that
are less perfect and complete, since he did not intend them for the press, and that they want
those finishing strokes, which such a masterly pen was able to give them. The good effects
his discourses had upon the hearers, and the importunity of many judicious and experienced
Christians to have them published, that they might have the same influence on such as should
read them, encouraged some worthy ministers to revise and print them. And since these sermons
have for a long time had the approbation both of learned divines and serious Christians, they
need not any recommendation of mine. “In this book Mr. Binning explains many of the fundamental
articles of the Christian faith and had he lived to have perfected and finished this work,
he had been upon this single account famous in the church of Christ.” The Assembly’s Catechism
has had many expositions by pious and learned ministers, some of them by way of sermon, and
others by way of question and answer. But this, so far as it goes, is not inferior to any.
A learned layman, Sir Matthew Hales chief justice of the king’s bench, the divine of the state
in King Charles II.’s reign, judged the Assembly’s Catechism to be an excellent composure,
and thought it not below him, or unworthy of his pains to consider it. For in the second part
of his “Contemplations moral and divine,” we have his most instructive meditations upon the
first three questions. These had been the employment of his horœ sacrœ, and it is a pity he
did not go on to the other questions. The shortness of Mr. Binning’s life has deprived us of
a complete course of useful catechetical discourses. This book was so greatly esteemed in this
country, that before the year 1718, there had been no less than five impressions cast off the
press,(124) and all these being sold off, a sixth was made in the said year. As they were much
valued at home, so they were highly prized abroad, and as an evidence of this, I find that
Mr. James Coleman, minister at Sluys in Flanders, translated them into the Dutch language.(125)

In the year 1670, another posthumous work was printed; it is entitled, “The Sinner’s Sanctuary,
being forty Sermons upon the Eighth chapter of the Epistle to the Romans, from the first verse
down to the sixteenth.” The Publishers in their preface acquaint us, that they were encouraged
to print it because the former treatise was universally received by the intelligent and judicious
in the principles of the Christian faith. In this book, as in all his other writings, the readers
will perceive a pure stream of piety and learning running through the whole, and a very peculiar
turn of thought, that exceeds the common rate of writers on this choice part of the Holy Scriptures.
Dr. Horton, Dr. Manton, and others, have printed a great number of useful practical discourses,
but so far as he goes, he is not exceeded by any of them.

