If any reasonable man still possesses a grain of sympathy with Bolshevism I invite him to purge
himself by reading With the "Die-Hards" in Siberia (CASSELL). In August, 1918, Colonel JOHN
WARD, M.P., reached Vladivostok in command of the 25th Battalion Middlesex Regiment, and from
the time of his arrival until his departure nearly a year later his position was almost grotesquely
difficult. Of our Allies in Siberia and of their policy he writes with justifiable frankness.
Our own is not excused, but he lets us clearly see that however ineffectual it may have been
there was honesty of purpose underlying it. In the medley of confusion which prevailed we were
lucky to have in Colonel WARD as senior British officer a man who was not afraid to shoulder
his responsibility. Under conditions so exasperating that anyone might have been excused if
he had been overwhelmed with anger and bewilderment he was resolved to uphold our prestige.
Upon the Bolshevist horrors in Siberia he does not dwell, but he says enough in passing to
make one shudder. Colonel WARD is a true friend of Russia. "This great people are bound to
recover, and become all the stronger for their present trials," are the concluding words of
his preface. That this prophecy may come true must be the prayer of all of us who remember
what we owed to Russia during the earlier part of the War.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was perhaps my misfortune that, not having read the book in which Mr. EDGAR RICE BURROUGHS
recorded the earlier adventures of his hero, John Carter, in the red planet Mars, when that
gentleman precipitated himself thither (from the banks of the Hudson, of all places), I found
myself in more senses than one out of my element. Not that it really matters; since the Martian
existence of Mr. Carter was apparently of that wild and whirling character, familiar to patrons
of the Continuous Programme, in which one thrill follows upon another so fast that their precise
order becomes of small moment. When I tell you that the opening chapters of this remarkable
nightmare--The Gods of Mars (METHUEN)--contain monsters with one white eye and mouths in their
hands, flying pirates, an air-ship that sinks down a volcano, an ageless witch who--but why
continue? The publishers call these happenings "bold;" but this is a pitiful understatement.
Really they are of a character to make the wildest imaginings of JULES VERNE, friend of my
youth, or Mr. WELLS, companion of my riper years, read like the peaceful annals of a country
rectory. To quote again from the publishers, "only the man who created Tarzan could write such
stories." If Tarzan were in any way comparable with the present volume, it would perhaps not
be unfair to add the corollary that only those readers who appreciated the one could swallow
the other. Mercifully, Mr. BURROUGHS writes so continually at the top of his voice that after
a time the clatter comes to have an effect merely soporific.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since Major-General Sir C.E. CALLWELL has, in The Dardanelles (CONSTABLE), added a volume to
a series called Campaigns and Their Lessons, it is clear that he is writing mainly for military
students, but none the less at least one man in the street--meaning myself--has been glad,
after reading plenty of merely descriptive accounts of the Gallipoli affair, to find a book
that frankly and justifiably does lay claim to technical proficiency. The exponents of vivid
narrative, modestly disclaiming expert knowledge, have been painfully liable to break off just
short of what one wanted most to know. They told us how things happened, or, at any rate, how
it seemed they happened, but the reason why of things they had to leave to others. In this
book we really do get at the why, and even more the why not, of the magnificent failure. Of
actual incident and human interest General CALLWELL'S account, which in a sense is only supplementary
to the others, adds little to our previous knowledge. The only point of the sort I picked up
is his notice of the characteristic reluctance shown by Anzacs to report themselves as sick
when urged to do so with a view to the gradual removal of troops without withdrawal of entire
units. It is hardly necessary to add that the author is an old literary hand, with a pleasantly
clear and luminous style of his own, though one is free to admit he splits his infinitives
almost as much as Sir IAN HAMILTON split his forces, and with less justification.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the very improving books which I had to read long ago the hero or heroine usually had a
cross to bear. They bore it with great fortitude, and frequently died young. When therefore
I opened Mr. JEROME K. JEROME'S All Roads Lead to Calvary (HUTCHINSON) I fancied I knew what
to expect. I read that Joan Allway was possessed of remarkable beauty, a "Stevensonian touch"
and suitable introductions to editors and newspaper proprietors, and that from the pulpit of
a column in the evening Press, with her photograph at the top, she attempted to reform the
world. I don't know how the photograph came out, but there was apparently no martyrdom so far.
Afterwards she began to encourage and inspire Robert Phillips, a Labour M.P. and future Cabinet
Minister, and at the same time to be kind to and educate Mrs. Phillips, who was good-natured,
vulgar and middle-aged. Falling gradually in love with the politician, she withdrew only just
in time, nursed in a French hospital, married a journalist friend and settled down happily
with him to reform a little bit of the world at a time, and that the part nearest to hand.
And now I am left wondering what Joan Allway's cross was. Would avoiding the Divorce Court
be counted the roughest path of self-denial in a moral anecdote of to-day?

       *       *       *       *       *

Running Wild (SIMPKIN) is the expressive title of a collection of child-memories by the late
Mr. BERTRAM SMITH, whom readers of Punch will remember by the pseudonym "BIS." They can here
learn from a sympathetic little introduction by Mr. WARD MUIR under what conditions of a brave
but losing battle with ill-health this delicate and vivacious work was written. When I say
that these recollections (which I decline to call by any word implying more artifice) illustrate
their author, I give you their measure for honesty and charm combined. Honesty first of all;
Mr. SMITH'S young barbarians running wild and, one conjectures, rapidly reducing their elders
to a like condition, have the compelling effect of unsentimental truth. Few clouds of glory,
for example, trail about the protagonists of "A Day," a tribute to the joyous intoxication
of a day-long orgie of naughtiness deliberate and wholly unrepented. You will find much in
these pages to waken half-forgotten and perhaps secret pleasures. Thus there was for me a personal
echo in the rejection as a seaside entertainment of castle-building and the ordered sequence
of the tides in favour of the infinitely more variable delight of running water and a sufficiency
of mud. Perhaps I have said enough to suggest the charm of an engaging volume, itself a memorial
of one whose kindly laughter will be missed by many.

       *       *       *       *       *