Then the famous Young Scots Trio, which has given us so many attractive "turns," has been violently
dissolved. Mr. PRINGLE, whose ample supply of vitriolic invective was always at the service
of the PRIME MINISTER, has been left by an ungrateful constituency at the bottom of the poll,
and Mr. WATT has shared his fate. It is true that Mr. HOGGE managed to save his bacon, but
without the support of Harlequin and Pantaloon I fear his clowning will fail to draw.

With so many of the old puppets gone I feel very lonely, and can only try to comfort myself
with the hope that the new Parliament may provide some adequate substitutes. After all, so
vast a machine must contain a few cranks.

Meantime I remain, Sir, with the highest respect,

YOUR PARLIAMENTARY CORRESPONDENT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOOM IN ARCHITECTURE.

Since that far-away period before the War, my architectural nerve has become sadly debilitated;
so when a card (bearing the name of Carruthers) was brought to me the other morning I felt
quite unmanned.

"Some potential client," I observed inwardly, "who has heard of the removal of the five-hundred
pound limit and has bearded me before I have had time to get the hang of T-square and compasses
again."

I liked the appearance of Mr. Carruthers, and his greeting had a slight ring of flattery in
it that was very soothing.

"You are Mr. Bellamy, the architect?" he said.

"I am," I replied; "at least I was before the War."

"And have a large practice?" he resumed.

"I certainly had a large practice formerly," I said. "With my methods and experience one ought
to acquire an extensive clientele. I have been an architect, my dear sir, man and boy for over
forty years, and have always followed the architectural fashions. In the late seventies, when
little columns of Aberdeen granite were the rage--you know the stuff, tastes like marble and
looks like brawn--I went in for them hot and strong, and every building I touched turned to
potted meat. Then SHAW came along--BERNARD, was it? no, NORMAN--with his red brick and gables,
and I got so keen that I moved to Bedford Park to catch the full flavour of it.

"Next, the Ingle-nooker's found in me a willing disciple. I designed rows of houses, all roofs
and no chimneys, or all chimneys and no roofs, it didn't matter which so long as there was
an ingle-nook with a motto over it. Why, after a time I got so expert that I simply designed
an ingle-nook and the rest seemed to grow by itself.

"Just as the War started I had broken out in another place and was getting into my Italian
loggia-pergola-and-sunk-garden stride, and then came the five-hundred pound limit and busted
the whole show. In fact, when you called I was wondering whether to chuck the business and
go in for writing cinema plays."

"When I want a really fashionable house built for me," said Carruthers, "I shall certainly
come to you."

"Ah," I said, "you have come to see me then on behalf of a friend?"

"On behalf," he said, "of several friends."

My chest swelled visibly. "This man," I said to myself, while reaching for my Corona Coronas,
"is planning a garden city, or at least a group of houses on the communal plan."

"The fact is," said Carruthers, clearing his throat, "I am a scout-master, and my troop are
collecting wastepaper, and I expect you have any amount of old plans and things that you--"

I was just in time to save the cigar.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

FRUITS OF VICTORY.

    ["Unlimited lard may now be purchased without coupon."--Daily
    Paper.]

