Amaranthé revived before Ursula had finished her dismal narrative, but she attended not to
it, nor seemed conscious of any thing that passed. Claribel and Ursula continued administering
restoratives to her, when the door opened, and the form of Adrian, but far more resembling
that of a spectre, slowly entered. He placed himself on a seat, and fixed his haggard eyes
upon his sister. She raised her's to him, but no sound gave utterance to the feelings their
looks mutually expressed. It was not the mild grief that could be soothed by sympathy; it was
the gloomy anguish of remorse, the humiliating sense of unworthiness, the incurable torture
of shame. Claribel and Ursula looked at them in speechless sorrow, for no ray of comfort presented
itself to alleviate their sufferings.

Thus were these unfortunate young people, by the indulgence of their own wishes, and the attainment
of what they supposed could produce only gratification and happiness, reduced to a state of
apparently irremediable distress. Even Claribel shared in the general misery. Not that the
gift of the fairy had lost its influence upon her; the lily was fresh as ever. She was contented
in her own person, and formed no wishes for herself; but she could not behold the wretched
condition of her friends unmoved. Though not subject to strong emotions, her heart was tender
and affectionate. Her cousins were her sole objects of attachment, and it was still unabated
towards them. Ursula could do nothing but bewail their sad destiny; she was weak and helpless.
Gabriel was the only rational person of the party. He collected together the little that remained
out of the wreck of the possessions, and tried to put things in some order to make them more
comfortable. The generous old man never reminded them of the advice he had given, or took to
himself the credit that was his due for his better judgment.

Claribel had used all the arguments she could devise to reconcile Amaranthé to her altered
state, but with little success. One remarkably fine day she prevailed upon her to go out into
the air: they walked to a part of the grounds that had in their childhood been appropriated
as their play place. Here, while resting on a bench, they were joined by Adrian. The brother
and sister now found words to relieve the weight of woe that oppressed them, but it was by
heaping invectives on the deceitful Felicia. From accusing the fairy they began to upbraid
each other. "You, Amaranthé," said Adrian, "have no right to complain: you might at least have
been spared the misfortune of poverty. Had it not been for your abominable vanity and coquetry,
you might have been happily and nobly settled."

"You are unjust to say so, Adrian," retorted his sister; "you know very well it was your refusing
to bestow a fortune upon me, that prevented many of my lovers from soliciting my hand in marriage;
but you were given up to selfishness, and cared not what became of me."

"For pity's sake, my dear cousins," cried Claribel, "do not quarrel. Remember, destitute orphans
as we are, we have nothing left in this world but each other, and if we are not united, what
is to become of us?"

