Many of us have often thought how severe a trial of faith must this be to the wives of our
great church dignitaries.  To us these men are personifications of St Paul; their very gait
is a speaking sermon; their clean and sombre apparel exacts from us faith and submission, and
the cardinal virtues seem to hover round their sacred hats. A dean or archbishop, in the garb
of his order, is sure of our reverence, and a well-got-up bishop fills our very souls with
awe. But how can this feeling be perpetuated in the bosoms of those who see the bishops without
their aprons, and the archdeacons even in a lower state of dishabille?

Do we not all know some reverend, all but sacred, personage before whom our tongue ceases to
be loud and our step to be elastic?  But were we once to see him stretch himself beneath the
bed-clothes, yawn widely, and bury his face upon his pillow, we could chatter before him as
glibly as before a doctor or a lawyer.  From some such cause, doubtless, it arose that our
archdeacon listened to the counsels of his wife, though he considered himself entitled to give
counsel to every other being whom he met.

"My dear," he said, as he adjusted the copious folds of his nightcap, "there was that John
Bold at your father's again to-day.  I must say your father is very imprudent."

"He is imprudent;--he always was," replied Mrs Grantly, speaking from under the comfortable
bed-clothes.  "There's nothing new in that."

"No, my dear, there's nothing new;--I know that; but, at the present juncture of affairs, such
imprudence is--is--I'll tell you what, my dear, if he does not take care what he's about, John
Bold will be off with Eleanor."

"I think he will, whether papa takes care or no; and why not?"

"Why not!" almost screamed the archdeacon, giving so rough a pull at his nightcap as almost
to bring it over his nose; "why not!--that pestilent, interfering upstart, John Bold;--the
most vulgar young person I ever met!  Do you know that he is meddling with your father's affairs
in a most uncalled-for--most--"  And being at a loss for an epithet sufficiently injurious,
he finished his expressions of horror by muttering, "Good heavens!" in a manner that had been
found very efficacious in clerical meetings of the diocese.  He must for the moment have forgotten
where he was.

"As to his vulgarity, archdeacon" (Mrs Grantly had never assumed a more familiar term than
this in addressing her husband), "I don't agree with you.  Not that I like Mr Bold;--he is
a great deal too conceited for me; but then Eleanor does, and it would be the best thing in
the world for papa if they were to marry.  Bold would never trouble himself about Hiram's Hospital
if he were papa's son-in-law." And the lady turned herself round under the bed-clothes, in
a manner to which the doctor was well accustomed, and which told him, as plainly as words,
that as far as she was concerned the subject was over for that night.

"Good heavens!" murmured the doctor again;--he was evidently much put beside himself.

Dr Grantly is by no means a bad man; he is exactly the man which such an education as his was
most likely to form; his intellect being sufficient for such a place in the world, but not
sufficient to put him in advance of it.  He performs with a rigid constancy such of the duties
of a parish clergyman as are, to his thinking, above the sphere of his curate, but it is as
an archdeacon that he shines.

We believe, as a general rule, that either a bishop or his archdeacons have sinecures: where
a bishop works, archdeacons have but little to do, and vice versa.  In the diocese of Barchester
the Archdeacon of Barchester does the work.  In that capacity he is diligent, authoritative,
and, as his friends particularly boast, judicious.  His great fault is an overbearing assurance
of the virtues and claims of his order, and his great foible is an equally strong confidence
in the dignity of his own manner and the eloquence of his own words.  He is a moral man, believing
the precepts which he teaches, and believing also that he acts up to them; though we cannot
say that he would give his coat to the man who took his cloak, or that he is prepared to forgive
his brother even seven times.  He is severe enough in exacting his dues, considering that any
laxity in this respect would endanger the security of the church; and, could he have his way,
he would consign to darkness and perdition, not only every individual reformer, but every committee
and every commission that would even dare to ask a question respecting the appropriation of
church revenues.

"They are church revenues: the laity admit it.  Surely the church is able to administer her
own revenues."  'Twas thus he was accustomed to argue, when the sacrilegious doings of Lord
John Russell and others were discussed either at Barchester or at Oxford.

It was no wonder that Dr Grantly did not like John Bold, and that his wife's suggestion that
he should become closely connected with such a man dismayed him.  To give him his due, the
archdeacon never wanted courage; he was quite willing to meet his enemy on any field and with
any weapon.  He had that belief in his own arguments that he felt sure of success, could he
only be sure of a fair fight on the part of his adversary.  He had no idea that John Bold could
really prove that the income of the hospital was malappropriated; why, then, should peace be
sought for on such base terms?  What! bribe an unbelieving enemy of the church with the sister-in-law
of one dignitary and the daughter of another--with a young lady whose connections with the
diocese and chapter of Barchester were so close as to give her an undeniable claim to a husband
endowed with some of its sacred wealth!  When Dr Grantly talks of unbelieving enemies, he does
not mean to imply want of belief in the doctrines of the church, but an equally dangerous scepticism
as to its purity in money matters.

Mrs Grantly is not usually deaf to the claims of the high order to which she belongs.  She
and her husband rarely disagree as to the tone with which the church should be defended; how
singular, then, that in such a case as this she should be willing to succumb!  The archdeacon
again murmurs "Good heavens!" as he lays himself beside her, but he does so in a voice audible
only to himself, and he repeats it till sleep relieves him from deep thought.

Mr Harding himself has seen no reason why his daughter should not love John Bold.  He has not
been unobservant of her feelings, and perhaps his deepest regret at the part which he fears
Bold is about to take regarding the hospital arises from the dread that he may be separated
from his daughter, or that she may be separated from the man she loves.  He has never spoken
to Eleanor about her lover; he is the last man in the world to allude to such a subject unconsulted,
even with his own daughter; and had he considered that he had ground to disapprove of Bold,
he would have removed her, or forbidden him his house; but he saw no such ground.  He would
probably have preferred a second clerical son-in-law, for Mr Harding, also, is attached to
his order; and, failing in that, he would at any rate have wished that so near a connection
should have thought alike with him on church matters.  He would not, however, reject the man
his daughter loved because he differed on such subjects with himself.

Hitherto Bold had taken no steps in the matter in any way annoying to Mr Harding personally.
Some months since, after a severe battle, which cost him not a little money, he gained a victory
over a certain old turnpike woman in the neighbourhood, of whose charges another old woman
had complained to him.  He got the Act of Parliament relating to the trust, found that his
protégée had been wrongly taxed, rode through the gate himself, paying the toll, then brought
an action against the gate-keeper, and proved that all people coming up a certain by-lane,
and going down a certain other by-lane, were toll-free.  The fame of his success spread widely
abroad, and he began to be looked on as the upholder of the rights of the poor of Barchester.
Not long after this success, he heard from different quarters that Hiram's bedesmen were treated
as paupers, whereas the property to which they were, in effect, heirs was very large; and he
was instigated by the lawyer whom he had employed in the case of the turnpike to call upon
Mr Chadwick for a statement as to the funds of the estate.

Bold had often expressed his indignation at the malappropriation of church funds in general,
in the hearing of his friend the precentor; but the conversation had never referred to anything
at Barchester; and when Finney, the attorney, induced him to interfere with the affairs of
the hospital, it was against Mr Chadwick that his efforts were to be directed.  Bold soon found
that if he interfered with Mr Chadwick as steward, he must also interfere with Mr Harding as
warden; and though he regretted the situation in which this would place him, he was not the
man to flinch from his undertaking from personal motives.

As soon as he had determined to take the matter in hand, he set about his work with his usual
energy.  He got a copy of John Hiram's will, of the wording of which he made himself perfectly
master.  He ascertained the extent of the property, and as nearly as he could the value of
it; and made out a schedule of what he was informed was the present distribution of its income.
Armed with these particulars, he called on Mr Chadwick, having given that gentleman notice
of his visit; and asked him for a statement of the income and expenditure of the hospital for
the last twenty-five years.

This was of course refused, Mr Chadwick alleging that he had no authority for making public
the concerns of a property in managing which he was only a paid servant.

"And who is competent to give you that authority, Mr Chadwick?" asked Bold.

"Only those who employ me, Mr Bold," said the steward.

"And who are those, Mr Chadwick?" demanded Bold.

Mr Chadwick begged to say that if these inquiries were made merely out of curiosity, he must
decline answering them: if Mr Bold had any ulterior proceeding in view, perhaps it would be
desirable that any necessary information should be sought for in a professional way by a professional
man.  Mr Chadwick's attorneys were Messrs Cox and Cummins, of Lincoln's Inn.  Mr Bold took
down the address of Cox and Cummins, remarked that the weather was cold for the time of the
year, and wished Mr Chadwick good-morning.  Mr Chadwick said it was cold for June, and bowed
him out.

He at once went to his lawyer, Finney.  Now, Bold was not very fond of his attorney, but, as
he said, he merely wanted a man who knew the forms of law, and who would do what he was told
for his money.  He had no idea of putting himself in the hands of a lawyer.  He wanted law
from a lawyer as he did a coat from a tailor, because he could not make it so well himself;
and he thought Finney the fittest man in Barchester for his purpose.  In one respect, at any
rate, he was right: Finney was humility itself.

Finney advised an instant letter to Cox and Cummins, mindful of his six-and-eightpence.  "Slap
at them at once, Mr Bold.  Demand categorically and explicitly a full statement of the affairs
of the hospital."

"Suppose I were to see Mr Harding first," suggested Bold.

