There is one thing more only I wish to say. This is the affair of the nation. Every one would
desire to help. There will be a great deal of work to be done which cannot be done by the Government.
I was glad the Prime Minister has already asked the co-operation of my right honorable friends
the members for West Birmingham and the Strand. They gladly came. But I am sure I speak not
for this bench but for the whole of our party when I say that the Government has only got to
requisition any one of us and we will serve them and our country to the best of our ability.
[Loud cheers.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PACT OF TRIPLE ENTENTE.

Statement Issued by British Foreign Office, Sept. 5.

DECLARATION.

The undersigned duly authorized thereto by the respective Governments hereby declare as follows:

The British, French, and Russian Governments mutually engage not to conclude peace separately
during the present war. The three Governments agree that when terms of peace come to be discussed
no one of the Allies will demand terms of peace without the previous agreement of each of the
other Allies. In faith whereof the undersigned have signed this declaration and have affixed
thereto their seals.

Done at London in triplicate the 5th day of September, 1914.

                   E. GREY, his Britannic Majesty's
                   Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.

                   PAUL CAMBON, Ambassador Extraordinary
                   and Plenipotentiary of the French Republic.

                   BENCKENDORFF, Ambassador Extraordinary
                   and Plenipotentiary of his
                   Majesty the Emperor of Russia.

       *       *       *       *       *

A COUNTERSTROKE.

Semi-Official Statement in The London Times, Sept. 6.

The declaration of the Allied Governments that they will not conclude peace separately during
the war or demand terms of peace without previous agreement with each other is an opportune
counterstroke to the campaign initiated by Germany for the purpose of detaching France from
Russia and especially from Britain. Overtures in this sense have doubtless been made to France.

The German Government has not yet realized the strength of the moral forces it has ranged against
itself by its wanton attack upon European civilization. It appears to imagine that, after having
been sufficiently "punished" for her temerity in opposing the Kaiser's hosts, France would
be open to a bargain, under which she would be "let off" lightly on condition that she should
agree to become the ally of Germany.

This idea has been clearly expressed of late in the German press. It is based on the belief
that the war was prepared by skillful British intrigues inspired by jealousy of Germany. German
statesmen cannot conceive that nations should fight for any cause loftier than material "interests."
Hence the constant mistakes of their diplomacy and its failure to foresee that little Belgium
would resist German pretensions or that England would go to war for "a scrap of paper." Now
they imagine that the determination of France to fight to the last in defense of her honor
and her superior civilization can be undermined by an offer to mitigate the material losses
she may suffer from the war.

The German view was most clearly expressed in the remarkable dispatch to the Nieuwe Rotterdamsche
Courant from its Berlin correspondent, which was reproduced in The Times of yesterday. Politicians
in Berlin, he wrote,

     see in England the land which has brought about the outbreak of the
     war by finely played intrigue, in order to let dangerous Russia
     bleed herself to death, to the end that against Germany, even a
     victorious Germany, she may herself acquire great advantages, both
     in trade and on the sea, and in order to make France entirely
     dependent upon her. The consequence of this opinion is in the
     highest degree remarkable. Whether you speak with a politician or
     with a porter or shoemaker, the same wish will always be expressed.
     We must, when we have beaten France, offer her peace on very
     acceptable terms in order to make her our ally to fight--against
     England.

The German error, which the declaration of the Allies should go far to correct, is all the
more remarkable in view of the stipulations of the Austro-German Treaty of Alliance. Concluded
in 1879 by Bismarck and Andrássy, this treaty still governs the relationship between Germany
and Austria-Hungary.

However low the German estimate of the moral cohesion of France, Russia, and England, German
statesmen must be singularly lacking in shrewdness if they suppose the Allies to be less alive
than were Bismarck and Andrássy to the need for complete co-operation between allies, not only
in war, but also in the negotiation of peace.

The futile German campaign for the detachment of France from her allies is, indeed, the most
striking indication yet forthcoming of the misgivings with which the resolute action of the
Allies is beginning to inspire the Kaiser and his Government.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPERIAL MESSAGE TO THE BRITISH DOMINIONS.

King George V. to the Self-Governing Peoples and the Empire of India, Sept. 9, 1914.

My personal knowledge of the loyalty and devotion of my oversea dominions had led me to expect
that they would cheerfully make the great efforts and bear the great sacrifices which the present
conflict entails.

Message to India.

To the Princes and peoples of my Indian Empire: Among the many incidents that have marked the
unanimous uprising of the populations of my empire in defense of its unity and integrity, nothing
has moved me more than the passionate devotion to my throne expressed both by my Indian subjects
and by the Feudatory Princes and the ruling chiefs of India, and their prodigal offers of their
lives and their resources in the cause of the realm. Their one-voiced demand to be foremost
in the conflict has touched my heart, and has inspired to the highest issues the love and devotion
which, as I well know, have ever linked my Indian subjects and myself. I recall to mind India's
gracious message to the British Nation of good-will and fellowship which greeted my return
in February, 1912, after the solemn ceremony of my Coronation Durbar at Delhi, and I find in
this hour of trial a full harvest and a noble fulfillment of the assurance given by you that
the destinies of Great Britain and India are indissolubly linked.

       *       *       *       *       *

438,000 MEN RECRUITED.

Statements in House of Commons, Sept. 10, by Prime Minister Asquith and Bonar Law.

The House went into Committee of Supply, Mr. Whitley in the chair.

     On the question that an additional number of land forces not
     exceeding 500,000 of all ranks be maintained for the service of the
     United Kingdom, in consequence of the war in Europe, for the year
     ending March 31, 1915.

