But still more remarkable than the fact which Doctor Alexander has stated, is the vitality
of the ancient Druidic chants, which still survive on the popular tongue for nearly two thousand
years after their worship has disappeared, and after the meaning of these strange snatches
and fragments of song has been all but irretrievably lost, and almost wholly unsuspected. Stonehenge,
or the Coir-mhor, on Salisbury Plain, is the grandest remaining monument of the Druids in the
British Isles. Everybody has heard of this mysterious relic, though few know that many other
Druidical circles of minor importance are scattered over various parts of England, Scotland,
and Ireland. In Scotland they are especially numerous. One but little known, and not mentioned
by the Duke of Argyll in his book on the remarkable island of which he is the proprietor, is
situated between the ruins of the cathedral of Iona and the sea shore, and is well worthy of
a visit from the thousands of tourists who annually make the voyage round the noble Isle of
Mull, on purpose to visit Iona and Staffa. There is another Druidic circle on the mainland
of Mull, and a large and more remarkable one at Lochnell, near Oban, in Argyllshire, which
promises to become as celebrated as Stonehenge itself, combining as it does not only the mystic
circle, but a representation, clearly defined, of the mysterious serpent, the worship of which
entered so largely into all the Oriental religions of remote antiquity. There are other circles
in Lewis and the various islands of the Hebrides, and as far north as Orkney and Shetland.
It was, as we learn from various authorities, the practice of the Druidical priests and bards
to march in procession round the inner circle of their rude temples, chanting religious hymns
in honour of the sunrise, the noon, or the sunset; hymns which have not been wholly lost to
posterity, though posterity has failed to understand them, or imagined that their burdens--their
sole relics--are but unmeaning words, invented for musical purposes alone, and divested of
all intellectual signification.

The best known of these choruses is "Down, down, derry down," which may either be derived from
the words dun, a hill; and darag or darach, an oak tree; or from duine, a man; and doire, a
wood; and may either signify an invitation to proceed to the hill of the oak trees for the
purposes of worship, or an invocation to the men of the woods to join in the Druidical march
and chant, as the priests walked in procession from the interior of the stone circle to some
neighbouring grove upon a down or hill. This chorus survives in many hundreds of English popular
songs, but notably in the beautiful ballad "The Three Ravens," preserved in Melismata (1611):--

    There were three ravens sat on a tree,
      Down-a-down! hey down, hey down.
    They were as black as black might be,
      With a down!
    Then one of them said to his mate,
    Where shall we now our breakfast take,
      With a down, down, derry, derry, down!

A second well-known and vulgarised chorus is "Tooral looral," of which the most recent appearance
is in a song which the world owes to the bad taste of the comic muse--that thinks it cannot
be a muse until it blackens its face to look like a negro:--

            Once a maiden fair,
            She had ginger hair,
    With her tooral looral lá, di, oh!
            And she fell in love
            Did this turtle dove
    And her name was Dooral,
    Hoopty Dooral! Tooral looral, oh my!

This vile trash contains two Celtic or Gaelic words, which are susceptible of two separate
interpretations. Tooral may be derived from the Celtic turail--slow, sagacious, wary; and Looral
from luathrail (pronounced laurail)--quick, signifying a variation in the time of some musical
composition to which the Druidical priests accommodated their footsteps in a religious procession,
either to the grove of worship, or around the inner stone circle of the temple. It is also
possible that the words are derived from Tuath-reul and Luath-reul (t silent in both instances),
the first signifying "North star," and the second "Swift star;" appropriate invocations in
the mouths of a priesthood that studied all the motions of the heavenly bodies, and were the
astrologers as well as the astronomers of the people.

A third chorus, which, thanks to the Elizabethan writers, has not been vulgarised, is that
which occurs in John Chalkhill's "Praise of a Countryman's Life," quoted by Izaak Walton:--

            Oh the sweet contentment
            The countryman doth find.
    High trolollie, lollie, lol: High trolollie, lee,

These words are easily resolvable into the Celtic; Ai! or Aibhe! Hail! or All Hail! Trath--pronounced
trah, early, and la, day! or "Ai, tra, là, là, là"--"Hail, early day! day," a chorus which
Moses and Aaron may have heard in the temples of Egypt, as the priests of Baal saluted the
rising sun as he beamed upon the grateful world, and which was repeated by the Druids on the
remote shores of Western Europe, in now desolate Stonehenge, and a thousand other circles,
where the sun was worshipped as the emblem of the Divinity. The second portion of the chorus,
"High trolollie lee," is in Celtic, Ai tra la, la, li, which signifies, "Hail early day! Hail
bright day!" The repetition of the word la as often as it was required for the exigencies of
the music, accounts for the chorus, in the form in which it has descended to modern times.

"Fal, lal, là," a chorus even more familiar to the readers of old
songs, is from the same source.
    With a fal, lal, là, and a fal lal, là,
      And a fal, lal, lal, lal, là.

Fal is an abbreviation of Failte! welcome! and là as already noted signifies a day. The words
should be properly written Failte! la! la! The chorus appears in the "Invitation to May," by
Thomas Morley, 1595:--

    Now is the month of Maying,
    When merry lads are playing,
              Fal, la, là!
    Each with his bonnie lass,
    Upon the greeny grass,
              Fal, la, là!

The Celtic or Druidical interpretation of these syllables is, "Welcome the day."

Here Failte, as in the previous instance, means welcome; lear (corrupted into lero), the sea;
and luaidh (the d silent), praise; the chorus of a song of praise to the sun when seen rising
above the ocean.

The song of Sir Eglamour, in Mr Chappell's collection, has another variety of the Failte or
Fal, la, of a much more composite character:--

    Sir Eglamour that valiant knight,
      Fal, la, lanky down dilly!
    He took his sword and went to fight,
      Fal, la, lanky down dilly!

In another song, called "The Friar in the Well," this chorus appears in a slightly different
form:--

          Listen awhile and I will tell
          Of a Friar that loved a bonnie lass well,
    Fal la! lál, lal, lal, lá! Fal la, langtre down dilly!

Lan is the Gaelic for full, and dile for rain. The one version has lanky, the other langtre,
both of which are corruptions of the Celtic. The true reading is Failte la, lan, ri, dun, dile,
which signifies "Welcome to the full or complete day! let us go to the hill of rain."

Hey, nonnie, nonnie. "Such unmeaning burdens of songs," says Nares in his Glossary, "are common
to ballads in most languages." But this burden is not unmeaning, and signifies "Hail to the
noon." Noin or noon, the ninth hour was so called in the Celtic, because at midsummer in our
northern latitudes it was the ninth hour after sunrise. With the Romans, in a more southern
latitude, noon was the ninth hour after sunrise, at six in the morning, answering to our three
o'clock of the afternoon. A song with this burden was sung in England in the days of Charles
the Second:--

      I am a senseless thing, with a hey!
      Men call me a king, with a ho?
          For my luxury and ease,
          They brought me o'er the seas,
    With a heigh, nonnie, nonnie, nonnie, no!

Mr Chappell cites an ancient ballad which was sung to the tune of Hie dildo, dil. This also
appears to be Druidical, and to be resolvable into Ai! dile dun dile! or "Hail to the rain,
to the rain upon the hill," a thanksgiving for rain after a drought.

Trim go trix is a chorus that continued to be popular until the time of Charles the Second,
when Tom D'Urfrey wrote a song entitled "Under the Greenwood Tree," of which he made it the
burden. Another appears in Allan Ramsay's Tea-table Miscellany:--

        The Pope, that pagan full of pride,
          He has us blinded long,
        For where the blind the blind does guide,
          No wonder things go wrong.

        Like prince and king, he led the ring
          Of all inquitie.
        Hey trix, trim go trix!
          Under the greenwood tree.

In Gaelic dream or dreim signifies a family, a tribe, the people, a procession; and qu tric,
frequently, often, so that these words represent a frequent procession of the people to the
hill of worship under the greenwood tree.

In Motherwell's "Ancient and Modern Minstrelsy," the ballad of Hynd Horn contains a Celtic
chorus repeated in every stanza:--

    Near Edinburgh was a young child born,
      With a Hey lilli lu, and a how lo lan!
    And his name it was called young Hynd Horn,
      And the birk and the broom bloom bonnie.

Here the words are corruptions of aidhe (Hail); li, light or colour; lu, small; ath, again;
lo, day-light; lan, full; and may be rendered "Hail to the faint or small light of the dawn";
and "again the full light of the day" (after the sun had risen).

In the Nursery Rhymes of England, edited by Mr Halliwell for the Percy Society, 1842, appears
the quatrain:--

    Hey dorolot, dorolot,
      Hey dorolay, doralay,
    Hey my bonnie boat--bonnie boat,
      Hey drag away--drag away.

The two first lines of this jingle appear to be a remnant of a Druidical chant, and to resolve
themselves into,

    Aidhe, doire luchd--doire luchd,
    Aidhe doire leigh, doire leigh.

Aidhe, an interjection, is pronounced Hie; doire, is trees or woods; luchd, people; and leigh,
healing; and also a physician, whence the old English word for a doctor, a leech, so that the
couplet means

    Hey to the woods people! to the woods people!
    Hey to the woods for healing, to the woods for healing.

If this translation be correct, the chorus would seem to have been sung when the Druids went
in search of the sacred mistletoe, which they called the "heal all," or universal remedy.

There is an old Christmas carol which commences--

    Nowell! Nowell! Nowell! Nowell!
    This is the salutation of the Angel Gabriel.

Mr Halliwell, in his Archaic Dictionary, says "Nowell was a cry of joy, properly at Christmas,
of joy for the birth of the Saviour." A political song in a manuscript of the time of King
Henry the Sixth, concludes--

    Let us all sing nowelle,
    Nowelle, nowelle, nowelle, nowelle,
    And Christ save merry England and spede it well.

The modern Gaelic and Celtic for Christmas is Nollaig--a corruption of the ancient Druidical
name for holiday--from naomh, holy, and la, day, whence "Naola!" the burden of a Druidical
hymn, announcing the fact that a day of religious rejoicing had arrived for the people. Wharton
afterwards boasted that he had sung a king out of three kingdoms. But, in truth, the success
of Lilliburllero was the effect and not the cause of that excited state of public feeling which
produced the Revolution."

The mysterious syllables which Lord Macaulay asserted to be gibberish, and which in this corrupt
form were enough to puzzle a Celtic scholar, and more than enough to puzzle Lord Macaulay,
who, like the still more ignorant Doctor Samuel Johnson, knew nothing of the venerable language
of the first inhabitants of the British Isles, and of all Western Europe, resolve themselves
into Li! Li Beur! Lear-a! Buille na la, which signify, "Light! Light! on the sea, beyond the
promontory! 'Tis the stroke (or dawn) of the day!" Like all the choruses previously cited,
these words are part of a hymn to the sun, and entirely astronomical and Druidical.

The syllables Fol de rol which still occur in many of the vulgarest songs of the English lower
classes, and which were formerly much more commonly employed than they are now, are a corruption
of Failte reul! or welcome to the star! Fal de ral is another form of the corruption which
the Celtic original has undergone.

The French, a more Celtic people than the English, have preserved many of the Druidical chants.
In Beranger's song "Le Scandale" occurs one of them, which is as remarkable for its Druidic
appositeness as any of the English choruses already cited:--

    Aux drames du jour,
      Laissons la morale,
    Sans vivre à la cour
      J'aime le scandale;
            Bon!
    Le farira dondaine
            Gai!
    La farira dondé.

These words resolve themselves into the Gaelic La! fair! aire! dun teine! "Day! sunrise! watch
it on the hill of fire (the sacred fire)"; and La! fair! aire! dun De! "Day! sunrise! watch
it on the hill of God."

In the Recueil de Chanson's Choisies (La Haye, 1723, vol. i., page 155), there is a song called
Danse Ronde, commencing L'autre jour, pres d'Annette of which the burden is Lurelu La rela!
These syllables seem to be resolvable into the Celtic:--Luadh reul! Luadh! (Praise to the star!
Praise!); or Luath reul Luath (the swift star, swift!); and La! reul! La! (the day! the star!
the day!).

There is a song of Beranger's of which the chorus is Tra, la trala, tra la la, already explained,
followed by the words--C'est le diabh er falbala. Here falbala is a corruption of the Celtic
falbh la! "Farewell to the day," a hymn sung at sunset instead of at sunrise.

Beranger has another song entitled "Le Jour des Morts," which has a Druidical chorus:--

          Amis, entendez les cloches
          Qui par leurs sons gemissants
          Nous font des bruyans reproches
          Sur nos rires indecents,
          Il est des ames en peine,
          Dit le pretre interessé.
    C'est le jour des morts, mirliton, mirlitaine.
          Requiscant in pace!

Mir in Celtic signifies rage or fuss; tonn or thonn, a wave; toinn, waves; and tein, fire;
whence those apparently unmeaning syllables may be rendered--"the fury of the waves, the fury
of the fire."

Tira lira la. This is a frequent chorus in French songs, and is composed of the Gaelic words
tiorail, genial, mild, warm; iorrach, quiet, peaceable; and là, day; and was possibly a Druidical
chant, after the rising of the sun, resolving itself into Tiorail-iorra la, warm peaceful day!

Rumbelow was the chorus or burden of many ancient songs, both English and Scotch. After the
Battle of Bannockburn, says Fabyan, a citizen of London, who wrote the "Chronicles of England,"
"the Scottes inflamed with pride, made this rhyme as followeth in derision of the English:--

    "Maydens of Englande, sore may ye mourne
    For your lemans ye 've lost at Bannockisburne,
          With heve a lowe!
    What weeneth the Kyng of Englande,
    So soone to have won Scotlande,
          With rumbylowe!"

In "Peebles to the Play" the word occurs--

    With heigh and howe, and rumbelowe,
    The young folks were full bauld.

There is an old English sea song of which the burden is "with a rumbelowe." In one more modern,
in Deuteromelia 1609, the word dance the rumbelow is translated--

    Shall we go dance to round, around,
      Shall we go dance the round.

Greek--Rhombos, Rhembo, to spin or turn round.

The word is apparently another remnant of the old Druidical chants sung by the priests when
they walked in procession round their sacred circles of Stonehenge and others, and clearly
traceable to the Gaelic--Riomball, a circle; riomballach, circuitous; riomballachd, circularity.

The perversion of so many of these once sacred chants to the service of the street ballad,
suggests the trite remark of Hamlet to Horatio:--

    To what base uses we may come at last!
    .      .      .      .      .      .
    Imperial Cæsar, dead and turned to clay,
    May stop a hole to keep the winds away.

The hymns once sung by thousands of deep-voiced priests marching in solemn procession from
their mystic shrines to salute with music and song, and reverential homage, the rising of the
glorious orb which cheers and fertilises the world, the gift as well as the emblem of Almighty
Power and Almighty Love, have wholly departed from the recollection of man, and their poor
and dishonoured relics are spoken of by scholars and philosophers, as trash, gibberish, nonsense,
and an idle farrago of sounds, of no more philological value than the lowing of cattle or the
bleating of sheep. But I trust that all attentive readers of the foregoing pages will look
upon the old choruses--so sadly perverted in the destructive progress of time, that demolishes
languages as well as empires and systems of religious belief--with something of the respect
due to their immense antiquity, and their once sacred functions in a form of worship, which,
whatever were its demerits as compared with the purer religion that has taken its place, had
at least the merit of inculcating the most exalted ideas of the Power, the Love, and the Wisdom
of the Great Creator.

ON VISITING DRUIM-A LIATH, THE BIRTH-PLACE OF DUNCAN BAN MACINTYRE.

    The homes long are gone, but enchantment still lingers,
      These green knolls around, where thy young life began,
    Sweetest and last of the old Celtic singers,
      Bard of the Monadh-dhu', blithe Donach Bàn!

    Never mid scenes of earth, fairer and grander,
      Poet first lifted his eyelids on light;
    Free mid these glens, o'er these mountains to wander,
      And make them his own by the true minstrel right.

    Thy home at the meeting and green interlacing
      Of clear-flowing waters and far-winding glens,
    Lovely inlaid in the mighty embracing
      Of sombre pine forests and storm-riven Bens.

    Behind thee these crowding Peaks, region of mystery,
      Fed thy young spirit with broodings sublime;
    Each cairn and green knoll lingered round by some history,
      Of the weird under-world, or the wild battle-time.

    Thine were Ben-Starrav, Stop-gyre, Meal-na-ruadh,
      Mantled in storm-gloom, or bathed in sunshine;
    Streams from Corr-oran, Glash-gower, and Glen-fuadh
      Made music for thee, where their waters combine.

    But over all others thy darling Bendorain
      Held thee entranced with his beautiful form,
    With looks ever-changing thy young fancy storing,
      Gladness of sunshine and terror of storm--

    Opened to thee his heart's deepest recesses,
      Taught thee the lore of the red-deer and roe,
    Showed thee them feed on the green mountain cresses,
      Drink the cold wells above lone Doire-chro.

    How did'st thou watch them go up the high passes
      At sunrise rejoicing, a proud jaunty throng?
    Learn the herbs that they love, the small flow'rs, and hill grasses,
      And made them for ever bloom green in thy song.

    Yet, bard of the wilderness, nursling of nature,
      Would the hills e'er have taught thee true minstrel art,
    Had not a visage more lovely of feature
      The fountain unsealed of thy tenderer heart?

