"They're on the run, by Gawd, they've got it right in the neck this journey," bellowed a soldier
as the German infantry broke and tailed away. Then something took Tim in the chest, something
wet and red, that went through him.

The man next to Tim saw the long bayonet stand out beyond his back, saw Tim sway, laughing,
and snap the steel short as he fell upon it.

A body of kilted men suddenly swept from the right of the hard-pressed battalion, swept by
in silence, and in silence swept the remaining Boches up one side of the ridge and down the
other into eternity.

Two days later Colonel Arbuthnot inquired after the welfare of Private Tim Gamelyn at the field
hospital.

"He was admitted suffering from sunstroke, and a terrible bayonet wound. He died early in the
morning," said the doctor.

"Is it true that he saved the battalion by urging our fellows on at the critical moment?"

"Yes," said Colonel Arbuthnot, "but do you happen to know if he had an officer's sword with
him by chance when he was carried in here? All my men speak of a 'sword of flame' with which
he drove the Huns before him. Even hardened soldiers who have been through many campaigns have
been babbling all sorts of nonsense of ghostly regiments of bowmen who helped to turn the German
attack!"

The doctor walked over to a shelf, and, taking down a rusty old sword, placed it on the table.

"Perhaps that is what you refer to, Colonel," he said. "Where the fellow picked it up is a
mystery to me. It must be some hundreds of years old."

Colonel Arbuthnot took it in his hands and read this inscription on the blade:

    NIGEL DE GAMELYN
      ... ADSUM ...

III

THE MILLS OF GOD

They were putting little Boudru to bed--the R.H.A. and the Corps of Royal Engineers and Stansfield,
the big fat Infantry Sergeant. His little sister, already tucked up in bed, was nearly asleep.
Boudru had been allowed to stay up till Sergeant Stansfield had come in from duty. The special
privilege had been accorded to the little French boy on this, the last night that the British
troops were to spend in the village. Boudru's home was in a portion of our line in which the
defence trenches were of the semi-detached type--they did not join up with the other part of
the line, and at times the place was distinctly unhealthy. Sometimes it was in the hands of
the Huns, sometimes the British rushed it, and held on for a few weeks; there had been times
when it had been occupied by both, at other times it was written on the squared official maps
as no man's land. It was a spot in which there was always a feeling of something dreadful being
close at hand; there was an air of expectancy about it and one felt there was a marked atmosphere
of nerves about. You might be sniped from the house opposite, or blown out of the windows by
a seventeen-inch shell. You never know. The man who sold you tobacco the day before might be
lying stiff in the gutter next day, or more probably still, he might be dining with the German
Staff a mile and a half away. All this uncertainty, coupled with the fact that the place was
full of spies, and that valuable information had been finding its way through to the German
lines, made the General decide to withdraw his troops and take up some trenches behind it.

Boudru sat on the big armchair and swung his white bare legs defiantly. Perhaps it had better
be explained that my lord Boudru was five years old. "Boudru going to shut eye?" said the fat
infantry sergeant suggestively.

"The cots are down and the beds unrolled," said the R.H.A. man falling into the diction of
the barrack-room.

"No," said Boudru. "You must tell me for the last time the story about the wicked German baby
killer who was turned into a pig. The man of the guns must tell it, and the fat man of the
infantry shall hide beneath the bed and make pig shrieks--many pig shrieks--at the time when
he is killed."

"But we shall disturb little sister Elise," said the fat sergeant with visions of a dismal
ten minutes wedged beneath the small cot and the floor.

"Elise is not bye-o yet," piped a thin voice from where two eyes were sparkling elfishly from
a tangle of golden locks.

"Go on, my English man--There was once a big fat baby killer who lived in Potsdam ..."

Then the R.H.A. man (a journalist by profession, a duke by inclination, and now by destiny
a very clever gunner) began the famous story. Never before had the telling of that tale been
given with such splendour of effect. The fat sergeant had made pig-noises with multitudinous
yells in at least fifteen different keys, and the little cross-eyed driver of the Engineers
had dressed up in a real Hun helmet and grey coat. The grand finale in which the Engineer had
turned into a pig on all fours and had been mercilessly put to death with the fat sergeant's
bayonet, had filled Boudru's soul with joy. He reflected and gloated on the scene far into
the night. Then he fell fast asleep and met with most dazzling adventures with a German soldier
who had been hiding in the Jacobean oak chest with the fleur-de-lis carved on the side, which
stands beneath the bulgy leaded window.

As a grey and wretched dawn came in with a cold and dispiriting rain there came to the ears
of little Boudru the steady champing of marching feet in the street below. Slush, slush, slush
went all those feet, beating the muddy road, and then the noise of metal on metal woke the
silent village streets as the guns went by.

"The soldiers! The soldiers!" exclaimed Boudru as he bounded over and jumped on to the Jacobean
chest to watch them pass. It was fated that they were the last English soldiers that Boudru
would ever see.

Some weeks later Boudru's mother was busy with odd jobs in the kitchen garden and the children
were playing in the front room, there was a ring at the door and the sound of a butt-end of
a rifle, as it "grounded" on the cobble stones. When Boudru on tiptoe lifted the latch, the
door swung open, and a big man in a greenish uniform stood before him. There was no sign of
cap-badge or title on his shoulder straps, and he was horribly dirty. He carried two English
ration bags, besides his own rucksack, and they were all filled to bursting with loot. Evil
beamed from his narrow, leering eyes; and when he smiled at Boudru it twirled his demon-like
mouth into a grotesque shape. He looked both depraved and suspicious, a disreputable scoundrel
with a gun, and that, you will find in the fullness of time, was just what he was.

"Let us shut the door," said Elise. "This is not a pretty man." But the man from Stettin pushed
past.

"Brat;" said he, "drink."

Boudru's mother had hurried up to the door as fast as her bulk and her stout legs would permit.

Every day she had expected a visit from the Huns. It was useless to argue with such a man,
so she took the German in.

"Brandy," said the man.

"There is only a little left ... it is over there, on the sideboard."

The soldier walked over, finished half a bottle, and announced that it was like water.

"More," he ordered, "Shoot you if no find."

The woman at last managed to unearth a bottle of good Burgundy and another bottle of brandy.

He drank both the bottles, and when he had finished, he asked for more like every other Boche
will do. Then he chose the front bedroom and threw himself down on the bed in a drunken sleep.

When the next morning broke the French woman went to awaken the thief and while the latter
was making his toilet little Boudru entered. He regarded the Hun with gravity for at least
five minutes and then delivered himself of his opinion.

"I don't like you," he said slowly, regarding the Hun, with his elfish eyes. "I don't like
you. I think you may be like the man in the English soldiers' story, who turned into a pig--a
baby killer perhaps. It is because of your red hair that I think you may turn ..."

The man from Stettin who had been trying to drag a comb through his horrible beard and hair,
turned, and he looked like a big red devil, the sun being on his head, and red beard and all.

"What's that?" he said, as he lurched ominously across the room. He had swallowed the contents
of a flask of Benedictine which he had taken from his rucksack, and the repeated drinks were
taking effect.

"I'll sweep the house, so there isn't a bug in a blanket left--you damned brat!" He was bellowing
like a bull, chewing his red beard and muttering to himself. As he passed a table, he knocked
the empty flask on the floor. It did not break, and he viciously stamped his feet on it, smashing
it to pieces. He began to go mad from that moment. As he kicked the wreckage about the room,
his glance fell upon his rifle with the fixed bayonet. And then the swine-dog ran amok. Boudru
stood with his back to the door: the blood froze in his veins, and his little body stiffened
into absolute rigidity.

"Turn into a pig!" shrieked the Hun. "What did you say? Turn into ..."

The bayonet flashed, and little Boudru--but what followed shall not be printed. It would be
passing the decent bounds of descriptive writing to put it in black and white. It is sufficient
to say that some minutes later the Hun prised the floor-boards up with his bayonet, and Boudru,
from that moment, without warning, or leaving any trace, disappeared from the world. He returned
in the fullness of time. And this was the way of it.

For the hundredth time that day, the Hun had gone into the bedroom to look out of the bulgy
bedroom window. Fear began to come over him without any warning, and he was thinking of little
Boudru down there in the dark. The thing within him that served him for a heart was beating
queer rhythms ... the beating sounded like a regiment of British Infantry on the march.

"Look," said he to the housewife, "look out on the road. Do you see soldiers?"

The good woman, distraught between suspense and hope for her little one, who had been missing
for six long hours, blinked away a tear on her lashes and peered through the diamond panes.

No one was to be seen. But between three and four in the morning the first faint champing of
marching feet could be heard and the Hun came down from the bedroom looking as pale as death.
He opened the door and stood there listening. The insolent crunch, crunch, crunch of heavy
nail-studded service boots came nearer, and a khaki column appeared on the winding road. The
housewife, whose aching eyes had searched the road for Boudru all day, saw them too.

"Look," she cried, "look! The English soldiers are coming. Do you see?"

They were coming!

The man from Stettin rushed up to the bedroom, and jumped into the oak chest.

"Not tell the English! Not tell!"

Fifteen or twenty soldiers were to be heard grounding rifles and throwing off their equipment
in front of the house.

Entered here Sergeant Stansfield, and shouted gaily to the housewife, but the moment he looked
into her pale and worn face he understood that some sorrow had befallen her. Before he could
hold her she had slid silently down on the floor, at his feet, and covered her face. "Ah,--ah,--ah!
O God, help and pity me! They have taken my little son," she cried.

At this moment a soldier rushed in at the door. "I think there is a man who looks like a Boche
trying to get out of the bedroom window!" he said. "Will you come, Sergeant? Quick!"

The sergeant went quickly, and returned with some men with fixed bayonets and led them up to
the bedroom: He told them to break in. The man was on his knees, with his horrible hands lifted
up in supplication. The soldiers kicked the man up and made him go downstairs into the front room.

"See!" said a soldier, who held his bayonet ready, "there is blood on his sleeve." The Hun
cursed within his heart.

"It was none of my shedding," he whimpered.

"I had not said so," returned the sergeant quietly.

"We are here to find that out. Perhaps you know something about the lost child?"

"I had no hand in it, God strike me dead!" the Hun answered fervently.

At that moment there was a sort of earthquake upstairs, a clash of falling bricks and slates,
a crashing pandemonium that sent everyone's heart to his mouth. A shell had struck the roof.
Then the ceiling above bulged like a stuffed sack and burst in a cloud of pink-yellow dust.
Something dropped with a dead thud fair and square in the centre of the fine oak refectory
table. Sergeant Stansfield bent forward, looked, and then started back. He gave a cry and turned
sickly white. On the table lay the little huddled form of Boudru. The morning sun that had
been paling the candles in the sconces, struck the golden hair and staring eyes, that had a
few hours before, held all the spring-time; struck, too, a heavy scarlet patch on the little
overall, as the sergeant tenderly turned the little body over....

"Oh! God of Mercy!... How horrible! A bayonet through his heart ..." he muttered. The Hun's
sleeve spotted with blood came back to his mind, and filled him with blind, unreasoning rage.

"You swine," he said. "I'll----"

The man from Stettin suddenly felt his heart stop beating. He stood petrified for a moment;
then he clutched the table with one feverish movement; and when he saw the pale cherub face,
he became covered at once with perspiration. Then the terror, which had paralyzed him a second
or so, gave way to the wild instinct of self-preservation. He hit out wildly with both arms,
kicking out at the same moment. In a second he was out in the hall, and had locked the door
behind him. A door opened somewhere outside, and they heard him running down the garden. Some
of the men snatched their rifles, rushed to the window, and threw it open. Four or five shots
rang out simultaneously, and the stench of cordite was wafted back on the sharp morning air
as the man from Stettin fell in a crumpled heap, his face buried in a clump of violets. The
sergeant went into the garden.

"Hum!" he remarked after an instant, "dead, did you say? He's as dead as a doornail ... anyway,
it's nothing to do with us! If ever a soul went straight to hell," he muttered to himself,
"it was that red devil's."

IV

THE STORY OF A SPY

Donald McNab, private (and distinguished ornament) of the London Regiment, leaned his elbows
on the little oak table in the bar of the "Three Nuns," and eyed me with withering contempt.
From a corner of the settle I stared--with a wholly unsuccessful attempt to look unconcerned--at
a quaint old painting of Sergeant Broughton who first taught Englishmen to box scientifically.
When the great are really wrathful it ill becomes pigmy people to jabber or argue. So I waited
with bent head and respectful silence to which the passing moods of such an erratic genius
are entitled.

When McNab and I had met an hour or so before we had been on the most friendly terms. We had
both ordered our pint of beer, filled our pipes, and retired to a corner in the bar parlour
feeling at peace with the world--barring of course the German Empire and their allied forces.
Everything, in fact, made for peace and goodwill between us; yet, because I had spoken with
some levity about our incomplete spy system, McNab's wrath had come down on my head like the
proverbial "hundred of bricks."

"It seems strange," I had remarked to him, "that the Huns can always forestall our most carefully-prepared
plans through their almost perfect spy system. Our fellows must be dead stupid at the game.
Why aren't these German vipers ever nabbed?"

"Dead stupid!" McNab had exclaimed, after gazing at me for a minute in dazed stupefaction at
my unspeakable temerity in challenging the proficiency of the British Army. "Get under your
Blanco pot!"

Now, when McNab used this picturesque term to me I knew that there was a storm brewing. He
only used the expression when he wished to be particularly "cutting," and I received his reproof
with, I hope, a correct realisation of my own insignificance.

The old world had rolled along for another twenty minutes ere McNab shifted his legs, cleared
his throat, and interfered with what was left in his tankard.

"I wonder," he said musingly to himself, "if these poor yobs over here will ever know the true
'istory of this bloomin' war?" Then back came a smile to his face and he shook his head, indicating,
perhaps, that he had answered the question to his complete satisfaction. The joyousness at
the thought of some of those unrecorded slices of military history caused my friend to drop
again into a contemplative mood, and he started humming a little tune under his breath:

    Hello! Hello! who's your lady friend?
    Who's the little girlie by your side?
    I've seen you with a girl or two,
    Oh, oh, oh, I AM surprised at you!
    Hello! Hello! what's your little game?
    Don't you think it's time your ways to mend?
    That's not the gal I saw you with at Brighton,
    Oh, oh, oh, who's your lady friend?

"If it is not a rude question," I ventured, after another few moments, "did you ever see the
capture of a German spy over in France, Mr. McNab?"

"Who are you getting at ... trying to pull my leg?" he demanded, with increased suspicion.

"Come, come," I laughed, "let us agree to differ about our--er--inferior spy system."

"Superior," he insisted.

I surrendered before the gleam of his eye. Fool that I had been, ever to have imagined that
I could conquer McNab's steely glance!

"Superior then, if you prefer it."

McNab's eyes, which had glared with indignation, lost their fire and assumed their normal expression
of calm and relentless despotism, and the red flag of agitated displeasure disappeared from
his tanned face. He seized with alacrity the olive branch (also another tankard of beer) which
I held out to him.

"The history of the British Army," he observed as he blew at his ale "'minds me of a married
soldier's letter to his wife. The most interesting parts are all left out ... do you get me?"

McNab tilted his hat at a perilous angle on one side of his head, and thrust his hands deep
into his pockets.

"Touching upon some of those unwritten exploits of the Army," I darkly hinted: "I'll bet I
can find a brilliant historiographer not a hundred miles away from the 'Three Nuns' who could
dictate a few of 'em that would fairly make the Daily Mail turn green with envy--eh, McNab?"

"I know the brilliant bloke you mean," my friend conceded modestly, "though calling me 'orrible
names like that would brand you as a swanker or a gentleman wot had left his manners in the
hall in any barrack room from here to Hindustan. When we were resting at Quality Street near
Loos, for example"--he paused a moment, and with a playful dig from his banana-like thumb nearly
knocked me on the floor--"why, name of a dog! There you have a case in point!"

"A case of a swanker?"

"A case of one of those spies. We caught the perisher. Begad, we did!"

McNab put the red-hot end of a cigarette into his mouth, stammered with wrath in a medley of
international profanity at the unexpected warmth, and would not be comforted till his favourite
barmaid had placed a slice of cooling lemon on his tongue.

