The burghers craned their necks, and Levantine merchant argued with Lombard trader upon an
estimate of the wealth paraded thus before them. And then at last came the young Duke himself,
in black, as if to detach himself from the surrounding splendour. He was of middle stature,
of a strong and supple build, with a lean, swarthy face and lively eyes. Beside him, on a white
horse, rode a dazzling youth dressed from head to foot in flame-coloured silk, a peaked bonnet
of black velvet set upon his lovely golden head, a hooded falcon perched upon his left wrist,
a tiny lute slung behind him by a black ribbon. He laughed as he rode, looking the very incarnation
of youth and gaiety.

The cavalcade passed slowly towards the Prinssenhof, the ducal residence. It had all but crossed
the square when suddenly a voice--a woman's voice, high and tense--rang out.

"Justice, my Lord Duke of Burgundy! Justice, Lord Duke, for a woman's wrongs!"

It startled the courtly riders, and for a moment chilled their gaiety. The scarlet youth at
the Duke's side swung round in his saddle to obtain a view of her who called so piteously,
and he beheld Sapphira Danvelt.

She was all in black, and black was the veil that hung from her steeple head-dress, throwing
into greater relief her pallid loveliness which the youth's glance was quick to appraise. He
saw, too, from her air and from the grooms attending her, that she was a woman of some quality,
and the tragic appeal of her smote home in his gay, poetic soul. He put forth a hand and clutched
the Duke's arm, and, as if yielding to this, the Duke reined up.

"What is it that you seek?" Charles asked her not unkindly, his lively dark eyes playing over her.

"Justice!" was all she answered him very piteously, and yet with a certain fierceness of insistence.

"None asks it of me in vain, I hope," he answered gravely. "But I do not dispense it from the
saddle in the public street. Follow us."

And he rode on.

She followed to the Prinssenhof with her grooms and her woman Catherine. There she was made
to wait in a great hall, thronged with grooms and men-at-arms and huntsmen, who were draining
the measure sent them by the Duke. She stood apart, wrapped in her tragic sorrow, and none
molested her. At last a chamberlain came to summon her to the Duke's presence.

In a spacious, sparsely furnished room she found the Duke awaiting her, wearing now a gown
of black and gold that was trimmed with rich fur. He sat in a tall chair of oak and leather,
and leaning on the back of it lounged gracefully the lovely scarlet youth who had ridden at
his side.

Standing before him, with drooping eyes and folded hands, she told her shameful story. Darker
and darker grew his brow as she proceeded with it. But it was the gloom of doubt rather than
of anger.

"Rhynsault?" he cried when she had done. "Rhynsault did this?"

There was incredulity in his voice and nothing else.

The youth behind him laughed softly, and shifted his attitude.

"You are surprised. Yet what else was to be looked for in that Teuton swine? Me he never could
deceive, for all his--"

"Be silent, Arnault," said the Duke sharply. And to the woman: "It is a grave, grave charge,"
he said, "against a man I trusted and have esteemed, else I should not have placed him where
he is. What proof have you?"

She proffered him a strip of parchment--the signed order for the gaol delivery of Philip Danvelt.

"The gaoler of Middelburg will tell Your Grace that he was hanged already when I presented
this. My woman Catherine, whom I have with me, can testify to part. And there are some other
servants who can bear witness to my husband's innocence. Captain von Rhynsault had ceased to
doubt it."

He studied the parchment, and fell very grave and thoughtful.

"Where are you lodged?" he asked.

She told him.

"Wait there until I send for you again," he bade her. "Leave this order with me, and depend
upon it, justice shall be done."

That evening, a messenger rode out to Middelburg to summon von Rhynsault to Bruges, and the
arrogant German came promptly and confidently, knowing nothing of the reason, but conceiving
naturally that fresh honours were to be conferred upon him by a master who loved stout-hearted
servants. And that Rhynsault was stout-hearted he showed most of all when the Duke taxed him
without warning with the villainy he had wrought.

If he was surprised, he was not startled. What was the life of a Flemish burgher more or less?
What the honour of a Flemish wife? These were not considerations to daunt a soldier, a valiant
man of war. And because such was his dull mood--for he was dull, this Rhynsault, as dull as
he was brutish--he considered his sin too venial to be denied. And the Duke, who could be crafty,
perceiving that mood of his, and simulating almost an approval of it, drew the German captain
into self-betrayal.

"And so this Philip Danvelt may have been innocent?"

"He must have been, for we have since taken the guilty man of the same name," said the German
easily. "It was unfortunate, but--"

"Unfortunate!" The Duke's manner changed from silk to steel. He heaved himself out of his chair,
and his dark eyes flamed. "Unfortunate! Is that all, you dog?"

"I conceived him guilty when I ordered him to be hanged," spluttered the captain, greatly taken
aback.

"Then, why this? Answer me--why this?"

And under his nose the Duke thrust the order of gaol delivery Rhynsault had signed.

The captain blenched, and fear entered his glance. The thing was becoming serious, it seemed.

"Is this the sort of justice you were sent to Middelburg to administer in my name? Is this
how you dishonour me? If you conceived him guilty, why did you sign this and upon what terms?
Bah, I know the terms. And having made such foul terms, why did you not keep your part of the
bargain, evil as it was?"

Rhynsault had nothing to say. He was afraid, and he was angry too. Here was a most unreasonable
bother all about nothing, it seemed to him.

"I--I sought to compromise between justice and--and--"

"And your own vile ends," the Duke concluded for him. "By Heaven, you German dog, I think I'll
have you shortened by a head!"

"My lord!" It was a cry of protest.

"There is the woman you have so foully wronged, and so foully swindled," said the Duke, watching
him. "What reparation will you make to her? What reparation can you make? I can toss your filthy
head into her lap. But will that repair the wrong?"

The captain suddenly saw light, and quite a pleasant light it was, for he had found Sapphira
most delectable.

"Why," he said slowly, and with all a fool's audacity, "having made her a widow, I can make
her a wife again. I never thought to wive, myself. But if Your Grace thinks such reparation
adequate, I will afford it her."

The Duke checked in the very act of replying. Again the expression of his countenance changed.
He strode away, his head bowed in thought; then slowly he returned.

"Be it so," he said. "It is not much, but it is all that you can do, and after a fashion it
will mend the honour you have torn. See that you wed her within the week. Should she not consent,
it will be the worse for you."

She would not have consented--she would have preferred death, indeed--but for the insistence
that the Duke used in private with her. And so, half convinced that it would in some sort repair
her honour, the poor woman suffered herself to be led, more dead than living, to the altar
in the Duke's private chapel, and there, scarcely knowing what she did, she became the wife
of Captain Claudius von Rhynsault, the man she had most cause to loathe and hate in all the world.

