At the end of the little bar a cocher is having his morning tipple, the black brim of his yellow
glazed hat resting on his coarse red ears. He is in his shirt-sleeves; coat slung over his
shoulder, and whip in hand, he is on the way to get his horse and voiture for the day. To be
even a cocher in Paris is considered a profession. If he dines at six-thirty and you hail him
to take you as he rattles past, he will make his brief apologies to you without slackening
his pace, and go on to his plat du jour and bottle of wine at his favorite rendezvous, dedicated
to "The Faithful Cocher." An hour later he emerges, well fed, revives his knee-sprung horse,
lights a fresh cigarette, cracks his whip like a package of torpedoes, and goes clattering
off in search of a customer.

The shops along the rue Vaugirard are marvels of neatness. The butcher-shop, with its red front,
is iron-barred like the lion's cage in the circus. Inside the cage are some choice specimens
of filets, rounds of beef, death-masks of departed calves, cutlets, and chops in paper pantalettes.
On each article is placed a brass sign with the current price thereon.

In Paris nothing is wasted. A placard outside the butcher's announces an "Occasion" consisting
of a mule and a donkey, both of guaranteed "première qualité." And the butcher! A thick-set,
powerfully built fellow, with blue-black hair, curly like a bull's and shining in pomade, with
fierce mustache of the same dye, waxed to two formidable points like skewers. Dangling over
his white apron, and suspended by a heavy chain about his waist, he carries the long steel
spike which sharpens his knives. All this paraphernalia gives him a very fierce appearance,
like the executioner in the play; but you will find him a mild, kindly man after all, who takes
his absinthe slowly, with a fund of good humor after his day's work, and his family to Vincennes
on Sundays.

The windows, too, of these little shops are studies in decoration. If it happens to be a problem
in eggs, cheese, butter, and milk, all these are arranged artistically with fresh grape-leaves
between the white rows of milk bottles and under the cheese; often the leaves form a nest for
the white eggs (the fresh ones)--the hard-boiled ones are dyed a bright crimson. There are
china hearts, too, filled with "Double Cream," and cream in little brown pots; Roquefort cheese
and Camembert, Isijny, and Pont Levéque, and chopped spinach.

Delicatessen shops display galantines of chicken, the windows banked with shining cans of sardines
and herrings from Dieppe; liver patés and creations in jelly; tiny sausages of doubtful stuffing,
and occasional yellow ones like the odd fire-cracker of the pack.

Grocery shops, their interiors resembling the toy ones of our childhood, are brightened with
cones of snowy sugar in blue paper jackets. The wooden drawers filled with spices. Here, too,
one can get an excellent light wine for eight sous the bottle.

As the day begins, the early morning cries drift up from the street. At six the fishwomen with
their push-carts go their rounds, each singing the beauties of her wares. "Voilà les beaux
maquereaux!" chants the sturdy vendor, her sabots clacking over the cobbles as she pushes the
cart or stops and weighs a few sous' worth of fish to a passing purchaser.

The goat-boy, piping his oboe-like air, passes, the goats scrambling ahead alert to steal a
carrot or a bite of cabbage from the nearest cart. And when these have passed, the little orgue
de Barbarie plays its repertoire of quadrilles and waltzes under your window. It is a very
sweet-toned organ, this little orgue de Barbarie, with a plaintive, apologetic tone, and a
flute obbligato that would do credit to many a small orchestra. I know this small organ well--an
old friend on dreary mornings, putting the laziest riser in a good humor for the day. The tunes
are never changed, but they are all inoffensive and many of them pretty, and to the shrunken
old man who grinds them out daily they are no doubt by this time all alike.

It is growing late and time for one's coffee. The little tobacco-shop and café around the corner
I find an excellent place for café au lait. The coffee is delicious and made when one chooses
to arrive, not stewed like soup, iridescent in color, and bitter with chicory, as one finds
it in many of the small French hotels. Two crescents, flaky and hot from the bakery next door,
and three generous pats of unsalted butter, complete this morning repast, and all for the modest
sum of twelve sous, with three sous to the garçon who serves you, with which he is well pleased.

I have forgotten a companionable cat who each morning takes her seat on the long leather settee
beside me and shares my crescents. The cats are considered important members of nearly every
family in the Quarter. Big yellow and gray Angoras, small, alert tortoise-shell ones, tiger-like
and of plainer breed and more intelligence, bask in the doorways or sleep on the marble-topped
tables of the cafés.

"Qu'est-ce que tu veux, ma pauvre Mimi?" condoles Céleste, as she approaches the family feline.

"Mimi" stretches her full length, extending and retracting her claws, rolls on her back, turns
her big yellow eyes to Céleste and mews. The next moment she is picked up and carried back
into the house like a stray child.

At noon the streets seem deserted, except for the sound of occasional laughter and the rattle
of dishes coming from the smaller restaurants as one passes. At this hour these places are
full of workmen in white and blue blouses, and young girls from the neighboring factories.
They are all laughing and talking together. A big fellow in a blue gingham blouse attempts
to kiss the little milliner opposite him at table; she evades him, and, screaming with laughter,
picks up her skirts and darts out of the restaurant and down the street, the big fellow close
on her dainty heels. A second later he has overtaken her, and picking her up bodily in his
strong arms carries her back to her seat, where he places her in her chair, the little milliner
by this time quite out of breath with laughter and quite happy. This little episode affords
plenty of amusement to the rest of the crowd; they wildly applaud the good-humored captor,
who orders another litre of red wine for those present, and every one is merry.

The Parisian takes his hour for déjeuner, no matter what awaits him. It is the hour when lovers
meet, too. Edmond, working in the atelier for the reproduction of Louis XVI furniture, meets
Louise coming from her work on babies' caps in the rue des Saints-Pères at precisely twelve-ten
on the corner of the rue Vaugirard and the Boulevard Montparnasse. Louise comes without her
hat, her hair in an adorable coiffure, as neatly arranged as a Geisha's, her skirt held tightly
to her hips, disclosing her small feet in low slippers. There is a golden rule, I believe,
in the French catechism which says: "It is better, child, that thy hair be neatly dressed than
that thou shouldst have a whole frock." And so Louise is content. The two breakfast on a ragoût
and a bottle of wine while they talk of going on Sunday to St. Cloud for the day--and so they
must be economical this week. Yes, they will surely go to St. Cloud and spend all day in the
woods. It is the second Sunday in the month, and the fountains will be playing. They will take
their déjeuner with them. Louise will, of course, see to this, and Edmond will bring cigarettes
enough for two, and the wine. Then, when the stars are out, they will take one of the "bateaux
mouches" back to Paris.

Dear Paris--the Paris of youth, of love, and of romance!

       *     *     *     *     *

