From all sides news pours in concerning the rush for American managers of English concerns.
At last the excellence of the American businessman's habits are being recognised, probably
not a little owing to the vogue of such plays as Get-rich-quick Wallingford, Broadway Jones
and The Fortune Hunters, wherein we see hustling methods justifying by their success all the
odd measures which led to dollars. That the dominating business man who thus rises to greatness
has to marry a clerk or typist is perhaps only a detail, but if the plays are to be taken as
a guide it is expected of him.

The great tailoring house of Tarn, which has just appointed a manager from Cleveland, Ohio,
on the advice of Lord CLAUD HAMILTON, has completely transformed its cutting department. All
jackets are now made to reach to the knees, with shoulders that project beyond the wearer's
body one foot on each side. The trousers are wide at the knees and tight at the ankles, and
are very effective. Walking-sticks must not be worn with these suits. Messrs. Tarn hope to
bring back the frock coat very shortly, especially for politicians.

The American scholar who has just been appointed to the Chair of English Composition at Oxford
has already made some drastic reforms. No longer may the student write that he has a book "at
home"; he must say "to home." The participle "got" has gone in favour of "gotten"; while the
only text-books in use are of Trans-Atlantic origin. The University has adopted the college
cry of "No, No, No Eng Lish Need, Need, Need Apply!"

This yell will be used by Oxford partisans at the Inter-University Sports during the performances
of American RHODES Scholars.

The latest news to reach us as we go to press is that the directors of various London music
halls are thinking seriously whether or not they will call in American assistance for their
revues, either producers, actors or musicians. But this is an innovating step which will require
the deepest thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

SINGING WATER.

  I heard--'twas on a morning, but when it was and where,
  Except that well I heard it, I neither know nor care--
  I heard, and, oh, the sunlight was shining in the blue,
  A little water singing as little waters do.

  At Lechlade and at Buscot, where Summer days are long,
  The tiny rills and ripples they tremble into song;
  And where the silver Windrush brings down her liquid gems,
  There's music in the wavelets she tosses to the Thames.

  The eddies have an air too, and brave it is and blithe;
  I think I may have heard it that day at Bablockhythe;
  And where the Eynsham weir-fall breaks out in rainbow spray
  The Evenlode comes singing to join the pretty play.

  But where I heard that music I cannot rightly tell;
  I only know I heard it, and that I know full well:
  I heard a little water, and, oh, the sky was blue,
  A little water singing as little waters do.

  R. C. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN APOLOGY THAT MADE THINGS WORSE.

We had a fancy-dress ball on December 30th. They have these things in nearly all Swiss Hotels
and you have to put up with them. As a matter of fact Matilda and I enjoyed ourselves. We supped
well and danced quite often. At 3.30 A.M. we set out for our rooms. We took a lighted candle
with us to keep us warm as we went. The way to get the most warmth from a candle is to sit
round it. As the corridor was cold, we sat round the candle outside Miss Wortley's room, but
this was quite accidental.

We didn't know that she had gone to bed at 10.30 P.M. with the primary object of sleeping and
the ulterior motive of getting up the next morning in time to catch an early train. We weren't
to know that she had wasted her time from 11 P.M. to 3.25 A.M. listening to a procession of
revellers retiring to their rooms. We had no suspicion that she was just dozing off for the
first time when we stopped to warm ourselves. We really made very little noise, though we may
have laughed just a little. The report which has got about, that I tried to climb up the wall
to see the time, is inaccurate. The clock is not nearly high enough up the wall to render this
necessary, and I didn't care a button what the time was.

If we had known that the Germans who ought to have been asleep in the room opposite to Miss
Wortley would come out into the corridor and shout in their nasty guttural language, we should
probably not have tried to find out whether anything was attached to the other end of a piece
of tape that protruded from under their door. It was quite a long piece of tape, and there
was something attached to the end of it, though we never found out what that something was.
Anyway, it was too large to pass under the door, though we pulled the tape quite hard. We had
just given up our investigation and reached our respective rooms when the German family arrived
in the corridor and commented on the matter.

I can't see that we were really to blame because Miss Wortley suffered from insomnia, missed
her early train next morning and had to pay an extra half franc for having breakfast in her
bedroom. She was very unpleasant about it and went round telling everybody that we had kept
her awake all night. She was one of those women who----But there, I don't want to be nasty,
and anyone who reads this will guess the kind of woman she was.

The next day was New Year's Eve. After dinner we took part in an Ice Carnival, then we saw
the New Year in, and then we drank practically everybody's health. At 2 A.M. I was sitting
in the lounge talking to Matilda when a kind of peaceful sensation came over me, and I began
to be sorry that there was any bad feeling between Miss Wortley and us; so I said to Matilda,
It's New Year's Day and I should like to start it on friendly terms with everyone, including
Miss Wortley. I think I shall apologise to her about last night; we may have been a little
thoughtless."

"I don't see what there is to apologise for," said Matilda, "but I suppose it can't do any
harm and it may help to make things pleasant all round. If you're going to apologise I suppose
I ought to do the same."

"Come on then," I said.

"Where to?"

"To apologise."

"Don't be absurd; we can't apologise now. We'll apologise to-morrow."

"We might miss her to-morrow, and we ought to do a thing like this without delay and as early
in the New Year as possible. If I don't do it now, I may not feel apologetic later on, and
I don't want to go through the year with even a tittle of Miss Wortley's insomnia on my conscience."

Matilda seemed rather uncertain about it, but after a time recognised that I was right, and
we went up to Miss Wortley's room. I had to knock loudly on her door before I got any answer,
but eventually a sleepy voice said, "Come in."

I didn't think that we had better do that, so I knocked again.

"All right, you can bring in the water."

"It isn't exactly your shaving water--in fact it's hardly time to get up yet," I shouted.

"What's the matter? Is the place on fire?" I heard sounds as of a person getting out of bed,
so I said, "You needn't get up, it's only us. We wanted to apologise about last night. We're
sorry you didn't sleep very well. Of course it wasn't altogether our fault, but still we thought
that we should like to apologise; in fact we didn't feel that we could go to sleep until we
had apologised; and--and we wanted to wish you a Happy New Year."

I am not sure that I did the thing very well, but I am sure that it would have sounded better
and that I shouldn't have ended so lamely if Matilda hadn't been so tactless as to laugh in
the middle. Somehow I got the idea that the apology hadn't been accepted in the spirit in which
it had been tendered. Suspicious sounds came from within, including the click of a water jug;
also the German family opposite seemed to be under the impression that it was time to get up--so
we didn't wait to say Good-night, but slipped quietly out of the way. Miss Wortley's door and
the door opposite opened simultaneously. There were two splashes like water thrown from jugs,
and I fancy that more than one person got wet. It isn't easy to discover exactly what is happening
when two people are shouting at the tops of their voices in different languages, but I didn't
gather that they quite cleared the matter up to their mutual satisfaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

EVERY AUTHOR'S WIFE.

     ["What is the first step towards literary production? It is
     imperative, if you wish to write with any freshness at all, that you
     should utterly ruin your digestion."--H. G. WELLS.]

  "What have you dined on, husband mine?"
  "Chocolate creams and ginger wine."

  "What did you take as an appetiser?"
  "Haggis and Sauerkraut à la Kaiser."

  "Didn't they give you any sweet?"
  "Hard-boiled eggs and whisky neat."

  "And your fruit, I trust, was over-ripe?"
  "Doughnuts five with a pound of tripe."

  "Have you had nothing at all since then?"
  "Lobster and stout." "Then here's your pen,

  "You must do a chapter or two to-night;
  Have a banana and start to write."

       *       *       *       *       *

New Anglo-German Entente.

     "Young gentlemen wish young English lady to learn know for the common
     joint exchange for the language sunday by flying outs Pleasing
     writing at the office chiffre J. 810."--Leipziger Neuste
     Nachrichten.

       *       *       *       *       *

     "NOTICE.

     In order to popularise the Corporation Crematorium, at Crematorium
     Road, the Corporation have decided as an experimental measure to
     abolish the fees now charged for the use of the Crematorium for one
     year."

     Capital (Calcutta).

The inducement leaves us cold.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Infant Samson.

     "2s. 6d. REWARD will be paid for name of Small Boy who pushed a Cab
     Horse down in the Station Yard, Teigumouth."

     Express and Echo (Exeter).

       *       *       *       *       *

More Commercial Candour.

From a Leeds grocer's circular:--

     "A perfection of blending is obtained in ---- Tea, which, upon
     analysis, is pronounced to be absolutely injurious to health."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IDEAL FILM PLOT.

     [The brisk demand by Cinema companies for new picture-play stories has
     led many writers of talent to turn their attention to this fascinating
     branch of literature. Unfortunately they often fail not only to
     acquire a proper knowledge of the technique of the art, but to take
     steps to ascertain what the public really wants. With the object of
     helping authors in both directions we publish below a scenario which
     has been described by an authority as "the ideal film plot."]

THE FIREBRAND'S REDEMPTION.

Persons:

Ferdinand, a Cowboy. General Devereux. Phyllis Devereux, his daughter. Joe, a soldier. Cowboys,
miners, soldiers, Indians, etc.

PART I.

Ferdinand's headlong career to the Devil is arrested by the beautiful Phyllis Devereux.

FIRST SCENE.--A drinking saloon in the Wild West. Cowboys, miners and Western demi-mondaines
playing cards at top speed and drinking heavily. Enter Ferdinand, drunk and carrying a huge
revolver in each hand and a tomahawk between his teeth. He forces the bar-tender to "hands
up" and begins shooting down the bottles ranged along the counter. Enter Phyllis. As soon as
Ferdinand sees her he drops the pistols and trembles violently. Phyllis regards him searchingly
and leaves the saloon. Ferdinand follows unsteadily.