They listened enraptured, while the bird poured forth its flood of song. When at length it
ceased, and the two walked home in the deepening twilight, the poet said:--

"We shall never know just what it was that sang so gloriously. But, Mary, what do you think
is most like it?"

"A poet," she answered. "There is nothing so like it as a poet wrapt in his own sweet thoughts
and singing till the world is made to sing with him for very joy."

"And I," said he, "would compare it to a beautiful maiden singing for love in some high palace
tower, while all who hear her are bewitched by the enchanting melody."

"And I," said she, "would compare it to a red, red rose sitting among its green leaves and
giving its sweet perfumes to the summer breezes."

"You speak well, Mary," said he; "but let me make one other comparison. Is it not like a glowworm
lying unseen amid the grass and flowers, and all through the night casting a mellow radiance
over them and filling them with divine beauty?"

"I do not like the comparison so well," was the answer. "Yet, after all, there is nothing so
like it as a poet--as yourself, for instance."

"No poet ever had its skill, because no poet was ever so free from care," said Shelley, sadly.
"It is like an unbodied joy floating unrestrained whithersoever it will. Ah, Mary, if I had
but half the gladness that this bird or spirit must know, I would write such poetry as would
bewitch the world, and all men would listen, entranced, to my song."

That night the poet could not sleep for thinking of the skylark's song. The next day he sat
alone in his study, putting into harmonious words the thoughts that filled his mind. In the
evening he read to Mary a new poem, entitled "To a Skylark." It was full of the melody inspired
by the song of the bird. Its very meter suggested the joyous flight, the fluttering pauses,
the melodious swervings, the heavenward ascent of the bird. No poem has ever been written that
is fuller of beautiful images and sweet and joyous harmonies.

Have you ever listened to the song of a bird and tried to attune your own thoughts to its unrestrained
and untaught melodies? There are no true skylarks in America, and therefore you may never be
able to repeat the experience of the poet or fully to appreciate the "harmonious madness" of
his matchless poem; for no other bird is so literally the embodiment of song as the European
skylark.

       *       *       *       *       *

But now let us read Shelley's inimitable poem.

II.

HARK, HARK!

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 49: From "Cymbeline," by William Shakespeare.]

     EXPRESSION: Read Shelley's poem with care, trying to understand and
     interpret the poet's enthusiasm as he watched the flight of the
     lark. Point out the five passages in the poem which seem the most
     striking or the most beautiful. Memorize Shakespeare's song and
     repeat it in a pleasing manner. Point out any peculiarities you may
     notice.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 50: Before the Virginia Convention, March 25, 1775.]

II. MARION'S MEN[51]

   We follow where the Swamp Fox guides,
     His friends and merry men are we,
   And when the troop of Tarleton rides,
     We burrow in the cypress tree.

   The turfy hummock is our bed,
     Our home is in the red deer's den,
   Our roof, the treetop overhead,
     For we are wild and hunted men.

   We fly by day and shun its light,
     But, prompt to strike the sudden blow,
   We mount and start with early night,
     And through the forest track our foe.

   And soon he hears our chargers leap,
     The flashing saber blinds his eyes,
   And, ere he drives away his sleep
     And rushes from his camp, he dies.

   Free bridle bit, good gallant steed,
     That will not ask a kind caress,
   To swim the Santee at our need,
     When on his heels the foemen press,--

   The true heart and the ready hand,
     The spirit stubborn to be free,
   The trusted bore, the smiting brand,--
     And we are Marion's men, you see.

   Now light the fire and cook the meal,
     The last perhaps that we shall taste;
   I hear the Swamp Fox round us steal,
     And that's a sign we move in haste.

   He whistles to the scouts, and hark!
     You hear his order calm and low,
   Come, wave your torch across the dark,
     And let us see the boys that go.

   Now pile the brush and roll the log--
     Hard pillow, but a soldier's head
   That's half the time in brake and bog
     Must never think of softer bed.

   The owl is hooting to the night,
     The cooter crawling o'er the bank,
   And in that pond the flashing light
     Tells where the alligator sank.

       *       *       *       *       *

   What! 'tis the signal! start so soon?
     And through the Santee swamps so deep,
   Without the aid of friendly moon,
     And we, Heaven help us! half asleep?

   But courage, comrades! Marion leads,
     The Swamp Fox takes us out to-night;
   So clear your swords and spur your steeds,
     There's goodly chance, I think, of fight.

   We follow where the Swamp Fox guides,
     We leave the swamp and cypress tree,
   Our spurs are in our coursers' sides,
     And ready for the strife are we.

   The Tory's camp is now in sight,
     And there he cowers within his den;
   He hears our shouts, he dreads the fight,
     He fears, and flies from Marion's men.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 51: By William Gilmore Simms, an American author (1806-1870).]

III.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 52: By Henry Lee of Virginia. Extract from an oration delivered in the House of Representatives,
1799.]

THREE GREAT AMERICAN POEMS

I

One day when Dr. Peter Bryant of Cummington, Massachusetts, was looking through his writing
desk, he found a small package of papers on which some verses were written. He recognized the
neat, legible handwriting as that of his son, and he paused to open the papers and read. Presently,
he called aloud to his wife, "Here, Sallie, just listen to this poem which Cullen has written!"

He began to read, and as he read, the proud mother listened with tears in her eyes. "Isn't
that grand?" she cried. "I've always told you that Cullen would be a poet. And now just think
what a pity it is that he must give up going to Yale College and settle down to the study of law!"

"Yes, wife," responded Dr. Bryant, "it is to be regretted. But people with small means cannot
always educate their children as they wish. A lawyer is a better breadwinner than most poets
are, and I am satisfied that our boy will be a successful lawyer."

"Of course he will," said Mrs. Bryant; "he will succeed at anything he may undertake. But that
poem--why, Wordsworth never wrote anything half so grand or beautiful. What is the title?"

"Thanatopsis."

"Thanatopsis? I wonder what it means."

"It is from two Greek words, and means 'A View of Death.' I have half a notion to take the
poem to Boston with me next winter. I want to show it to my friend Mr. Philips."

"Oh, do; and take some of Cullen's other poems with it. Perhaps he might think some of them
good enough to publish."

Dr. Peter Bryant was at that time a member of the senate in the Massachusetts general assembly.
When the time came for the meeting of the assembly he went up to Boston, and he did not forget
to take several of his son's poems with him. The North American Review was a great magazine
in those days, and Dr. Bryant was well acquainted with Mr. Philips, one of its editors. He
called at the office of the Review, and not finding Mr. Philips, he left the package of manuscript
with his name written upon it.

When Mr. Philips returned he found the package, and after reading the poems concluded that
Dr. Bryant had written "Thanatopsis," and that the others were probably by his son Cullen.

"It is a remarkable poem--a remarkable poem," he said, as he showed it to his two fellow-editors.
"We have never published anything better in the Review," he said, and he began to read it to them.

When he had finished, one of them, Richard Henry Dana, who was himself a poet, said doubtingly:

"Mr. Philips, you have been imposed upon. There is no person in America who can write a poem
like that."

"Ah, but I know the man who wrote it," answered Mr. Philips. "He is in the state senate, and
he isn't a man who would impose upon any person."

"Well, I must have a look at the man who can write such lines as those," said Mr. Dana.

He went to the statehouse, and to the senate chamber, and asked to see Senator Bryant. A tall,
gray-bearded man was pointed out to him. Mr. Dana looked at him for a few minutes and then
said to himself, "He has a fine head; but he is not the man who could write 'Thanatopsis'"
So without speaking to him he returned to his office.

Mr. Philips, still full of enthusiasm, soon had an interview with Dr. Bryant, and learned the
truth in regard to the authorship of the poem. It was printed in the next issue of the North
American Review. It was the first great poem ever produced in America; it was the work of a
young man not eighteen years of age, and it is without doubt the greatest poem ever written
by one so young. But let us read it.

     EXPRESSION: Observe that this poem is written in blank verse. In
     what respects does it differ from other forms of verse? Read it
     with great care, observing the marks of punctuation and giving to
     each passage the proper inflections and emphasis. Compare it with
     some other poems you have read.

II

One Sunday evening, in the summer of 1848, Edgar Allan Poe was visiting at the house of a friend
in New York city. The day was warm, and the windows of the conservatory where he was sitting
were thrown wide open to admit the breeze. Mr. Poe was very despondent because of many sorrows
and disappointments, and he was plainly annoyed by the sound of some near-by church bells pealing
the hour of worship.

"I have made an agreement with a publisher to write a poem for him," he said, "but I have no
inspiration for such a task. What shall I do?"

His friend Mrs. Shew gave him an encouraging reply, and invited him to drink tea with her.
Then she placed paper and ink before him and suggested that, if he would try to write, the
required inspiration would come.

"No," he answered; "I so dislike the noise of bells to-night, I cannot write. I have no subject--I
am exhausted."

Mrs. Shew then wrote at the top of the sheet of paper, The Bells, by E. A. Poe, and added a
single line as a beginning:

   "The bells, the little silver bells."

The poet accepted the suggestion, and after some effort finished the first stanza. Then Mrs.
Shew wrote another line:

   "The heavy iron bells."

This idea was also elaborated by Mr. Poe, who copied off the two stanzas and entitled them
The Bells, by Mrs. M. L. Shew. He went home, pondering deeply upon the subject; the required
inspiration was not long lacking; and in a few days the completed poem was ready to be submitted
to the publisher.

III

In the early part of the nineteenth century Fitz-Greene Halleck was regarded as one of the
greatest of American poets. He is now, however, remembered chiefly as the author of a single
poem, "Marco Bozzaris," published in 1827. This poem has been described, perhaps justly, as
"the best martial lyric in the English language."

It was written at a time when the people of Greece were fighting for their independence; and
it celebrates the heroism of the young Greek patriot, Marco Bozzaris, who was killed while
leading a desperate but successful night attack upon the Turks, August 20, 1823. As here presented,
it is slightly abridged.

     EXPRESSION: Talk with your teacher about these three poems, and the
     proper manner of reading each. Learn all that you can about their
     authors.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 53: By Edward Everett, an American statesman and orator (1794-1865).]

     EXPRESSION: This selection and also the selections on pages 202,
     209, and 231 are fine examples of American oratory, such as was
     practiced by the statesmen and public speakers of the earlier years
     of our republic. Learn all that you can about Patrick Henry, Daniel
     Webster, Edward Everett, Theodore Parker, and other eminent
     orators. Before attempting to read this selection aloud, read it
     silently and try to understand every statement or allusion
     contained in it. Call to mind all that you have learned in your
     histories or elsewhere concerning the Indians and their treatment
     by the American colonists. Now read with energy and feeling each
     paragraph of this extract from Mr. Everett's oration. Try to make
     your hearers understand and appreciate the feelings which are
     expressed.

NATIONAL RETRIBUTION[54]

Do you know how empires find their end?

Yes. The great states eat up the little. As with fish, so with nations.

Come with me! Let us bring up the awful shadows of empires buried long ago, and learn a lesson
from the tomb.

Come, old Assyria, with the Ninevitish dove upon thy emerald crown! What laid thee low?

Assyria answers: "I fell by my own injustice. Thereby Nineveh and Babylon came with me to the
ground."

O queenly Persia, flame of the nations! Wherefore art thou so fallen? thou who trod the people
under thee, bridged the Hellespont with ships, and poured thy temple-wasting millions on the
western world?

Persia answers: "Because I trod the people under me, because I bridged the Hellespont with
ships, and poured my temple-wasting millions on the western world, I fell by my own misdeeds!"

And thou, muselike Grecian queen, fairest of all thy classic sisterhood of states, enchanting
yet the world with thy sweet witchery, speaking in art, and most seductive in song, why liest
thou there with thy beauteous yet dishonored brow reposing on thy broken harp?

Greece answers: "I loved the loveliness of flesh, embalmed in Parian stone. I loved the loveliness
of thought, and treasured that more than Parian speech. But the beauty of justice, the loveliness
of love, I trod down to earth. Lo! therefore have I become as those barbarian states, and one
of them."

O manly, majestic Rome, with thy sevenfold mural crown all broken at thy feet, why art thou
here? 'Twas not injustice brought thee low, for thy great Book of Law is prefaced with these
words, "Justice is the unchanging, everlasting will to give each man his right." It was not
the saint's ideal. It was the hypocrite's pretense.

And Rome says: "I made iniquity my law! I trod the nations under me! Their wealth gilded my
palaces, where now thou mayst see the fox and hear the owl. Wicked men were my cabinet counselors.
The flatterer breathed his poison in my ear. Millions of bondmen wet the soil with tears and
blood! Do you not hear it crying yet to God? Lo here have I my recompense, tormented with such
downfalls as you see.

"Go back and tell the newborn child who sitteth on the Alleghanies, laying his either hand
upon a tributary sea,--tell him there are rights which States must keep, or they shall suffer
punishment. Tell him there is a God who hurls to earth the loftiest realm that breaks his just,
eternal law. Warn the young empire, that he come not down, dim and dishonored, to my shameful
tomb. Tell him that Justice is the unchanging, everlasting will, to give each man his right.
I knew this law. I broke it. Bid him keep it, and be forever safe."

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 56: By Ben Jonson (1573-1637).]

II.

