It was half-past eleven when Donald came. Linda could not bring herself to give up the sea
that day. She found it impossible to drive the King's Highway. It seemed equally impossible
not to look on the face of the ocean, so she compromised by skirting Santa Monica Bay, and
taking the foothill road she ran it to the north end of the beach drive. When they had spread
their blankets on the sand, finished their lunch and were resting, Linda began to question
Donald about what had happened. She wanted to know how long Whitings' gardener had been in
their employ; if they knew where he lived and about his family; if they knew who his friends
were, or anything concerning him. She inquired about the man who had taken his place, and wanted
most particularly to know what the garage men had found the trouble with a car that ran perfectly
on Friday night and broke down in half a dozen different places on Saturday morning. Finally
Donald looked at her, laughingly quizzical.

"Linda," he said, "you're no nerve specialist and no naturalist. You're the cross examiner
for the plaintiff. What are you trying to get at? Make out a case against Yogo Sani?"

"Of course it's all right," said Linda, watching a distant pelican turn head down and catapult
into the sea. "It has to be all right, but you must admit that it looks peculiar. How have
you been getting along this week?"

Donald waved his hand in the direction of a formation of stone the size of a small house.

"Been rolling that to the top of the mountain," he said lightly. Linda's eyes narrowed, her
face grew speculative. She looked at Donald intently.

"Is it as difficult as that?" she asked in a lowered voice as if the surf and the sea chickens
might hear.

"It is just as difficult as that," said Donald. "While you're talking about peculiar things,
I'll tell you one. In class I came right up against Oka Sayye on the solution of a theorem
in trigonometry. We both had the answer, the correct answer, but we had arrived at it by widely
different routes, and it was up to me to prove that my line of reasoning was more lucid, more
natural, the inevitable one by which the solution should be reached. We got so in earnest that
I am afraid both of us were rather tense. I stepped over to his demonstration to point out
where I thought his reasoning was wrong. I got closer to the Jap than I had ever been before;
and by gracious, Linda! scattered, but nevertheless still there, and visible, I saw a sprinkling
of gray hairs just in front of and over his ears. It caught me unawares, and before I knew
what I was doing, before the professor and the assembled classroom I blurted it out: 'Say,
Oka Sayye, how old are you?' If the Jap had had any way of killing me, I believe he would have
done it. There was a look in his eyes that was what I would call deadly. It was only a flash
and then, very courteously, putting me in the wrong, of course, he remarked that he was 'almost
ninekleen'; and it struck me from his look and the way he said it that it was a lie. If he
truly was the average age of the rest of the class there was nothing for him to be angry about.
Then I did take a deliberate survey. From the settled solidity of his frame and the shape of
his hands and the skin of his face and the set of his eyes in his head, I couldn't see that
much youth. I'll bet he's thirty if he's a day, and I shouldn't be a bit surprised if he has
graduated at the most worthwhile university in Japan, before he ever came to this country to
get his English for nothing."

Linda was watching a sea swallow now, and slowly her lean fingers were gathering handfuls of
sand and sifting them into a little pyramid she was heaping beside her. Again almost under
her breath she spoke.

"Donald, do you really believe that?" she asked. "Is it possible that mature Jap men are coming
here and entering our schools and availing themselves of the benefits that the taxpayers of
California provide for their children?"

"Didn't you know it?" asked Donald. "I hadn't thought of it in connection with Oka Sayye, but
I do know cases where mature Japs have been in grade schools with children under ten."

"Oh, Donald!" exclaimed Linda. "If California is permitting that or ever has permitted it,
we're too easy. We deserve to become their prey if we are so careless."

"Why, I know it's true," said Donald. "I have been in the same classes with men more than old
enough to be my father."

"I never was," said Linda, industriously sifting sand. "I have been in classes with Japs ever
since I have been at school, but it was with girls and boys of our gardeners and fruit dealers
and curio-shop people, and they were always of my age and entitled to be in school, since our
system includes the education of anybody who happens to be in California and wants to go to
school."

"Did my being late spoil any particular plan you had made, Linda?"

"Yes," said Linda, "it did."

"Oh, I am so sorry!" cried Donald. "I certainly shall try to see that it doesn't occur again.
Could we do it next Saturday?"

"I am hoping so," said Linda.

"I told Dad," said Donald, "where I wanted to go and what I wanted to do, and he was awfully
sorry but he said it was business and it would take only a few minutes and he thought I could
do it and be on time. If he had known I would be detained I don't believe he would have asked
it of me. He's a grand old peter, Linda."

"Yes, I know," said Linda. "There's not much you can tell me about peters of the grand sort,
the real, true flesh-and-blood, bighearted, human-being fathers, who will take you to the fields
and the woods and take the time to teach you what God made and how He made it and why He made
it and what we can do with it, and of the fellowship and brotherhood we can get from Nature
by being real kin. The one thing that I have had that was the biggest thing in all this world
was one of these real fathers."

Donald watched as she raised the pyramid higher and higher.

"Did you tell your father whom you were to go with?" she asked.

"Sure I did," said Donald. "Told the whole family at dinner last night. Told 'em about all
the things I was learning, from where to get soap off the bushes to the best spot for material
for wooden legs or instantaneous relief for snake bite."

"What did they say?" Linda inquired laughingly.

"Unanimously in favour of continuing the course," he said. "I had already told Father about
you when I asked him for books and any help that he could give me with Oka Sayye. Since I had
mentioned you last night he told Mother and Louise about that, and they told me to bring you
to the house some time. All of them are crazy to know you. Mother says she is just wild to
know whether a girl who wears boots and breeches and who knows canyons and the desert and the
mountains as you do can be a feminine and lovable person."

"If I told her how many friends I have, she could have speedily decided whether I am lovable
or not," said Linda; "but I would make an effort to convince her that I am strictly feminine."

"You would convince her of that without making the slightest effort. You're infinitely more
feminine than any other girl I have ever known."

"How do you figure that?" asked Linda.

"Well," said Donald, "it's a queer thing about you, Linda. I take any liberty I pretty nearly
please with most of the girls I have been associated with. I tie their shoes and pull their
hair--down if I want to--and hand them round 'most any way the notion takes me, and they just
laugh and take the same liberties with me, which proves that I am pretty much a girl with them
or they are pretty much boys with me. But it wouldn't occur to me to touch your hair or your
shoe lace or the tips of your fingers; which proves that you're more feminine than any other
girl I know, because if you were not I would be treating you more like another boy. I thought,
the first day we were together, that you were like a boy, and I said so, and I thought it because
you did not tease me and flirt with me, but since I have come to know you better, you're less
like a boy than any other girl I ever have known."

"Don't get psychological, Donald," said Linda. "Go on with the Jap. I haven't got an answer
yet to what I really want to know. Have you made the least progress this week? Can you beat him?"

Donald hesitated, studying over the answer.

"Beat him at that trig proposition the other day," he said. "Got an open commendation before
the class. There's not a professor in any of my classes who isn't 'hep' to what I'm after by
this time, and if I would cajole them a little they would naturally be on my side, especially
if their attention were called to that incident of yesterday; but you said I have to beat him
with my brains, by doing better work than he does; so about the biggest thing I can honestly
tell you is that I have held my own. I have only been ahead of him once this week, but I haven't
failed in anything that he has accomplished. I have been able to put some additional touches
to some work that he has done for which he used to be marked A which means your One Hundred.
Double A which means your plus I made in one instance. And you needn't think that Oka Sayye
does not realize what I am up to as well as any of the rest of the class, and you needn't think
that he is not going to give me a run for my brain. All I've got will be needed before we finish
this term."

"I see," said Linda, slowly nodding her head.

"I wish," said Donald, "that we had started this thing two years ago, or better still, four.
But of course you were not in the high school four years ago and there wasn't a girl in my
class or among my friends who cared whether I beat the Jap or not. They greatly preferred that
I take them motoring or to a dance or a picture show or a beach party. You're the only one
except Mother and Louise who ever inspired me to get down to business."

Linda laid her palm on the top of the sand heap and pressed it flat. She looked at Donald with
laughing eyes.

"Symbolical," she announced. "That sand was the Jap." She stretched her hand toward him. "That
was you. Did you see yourself squash him?"

Donald's laugh was grim.

"Yes, I saw," he said. "I wish it were as easy as that."

"That was not easy," said Linda; "make a mental computation of all the seconds that it took
me to erect that pyramid and all the millions of grains of sand I had to gather."

Donald was deeply thoughtful, yet a half smile was playing round his lips.

"Of all the queer girls I ever knew, you're the cap sheaf, Linda," he said.

Linda rose slowly, shook the sand from her breeches and stretched out her hand.

"Let's hotfoot it down to the African village and see what the movies are doing that is interesting
today," she proposed.

CHAPTER XXI. Shifting the Responsibility

On her pillow that night before dropping to almost instantaneous sleep Linda reflected that
if you could not ride the King's Highway, racing the sands of Santa Monica was a very excellent
substitute. It had been a wonderful day after all. When she had left Donald at the Lilac Valley
end of the car line he had held her hand tight an instant and looked into her face with the
most engaging of clear, boyish smiles.

"Linda, isn't our friendship the nicest thing that ever happened to us?" he demanded.

"Yes," answered Linda promptly, "quite the nicest. Make your plans for all day long next Saturday."

"I'll be here before the birds are awake," promised Donald.

