P. S. I forgot to ask you if you are not shocked with Bellisle's letter to Contades? The French
ought to behave with more spirit than they do, before they give out such sanguinary orders--@,iii(I
if they did, I should think they would not give such orders.  And did not YOU laugh at the
enormous folly of Bellisle's conclusion? It is so foolish, that I think he might fairly disavow
it.  It puts me in mind of a ridiculous passage in Racine's Bajazet, ----"et s'il faut que
je meure, Mourons, moi, cher Osmin, comme un Visir; et toi Comme le favori d'un homme tel que moi."

(1060) Prince Ferdinand's victory was the celebrated battle of Minden, won from the French
on the 1st of August; the King of Prussia's defeat was that of Kunersdorf, lost to the Russians
on the 12th of August.-D.

(1061) Count Bruhl, favourite and prime minister of Augustus the Third, King of Poland and
Elector of Saxony.

(1063) Lord George Sackville, disgraced at the battle of Minden.

(1065) Second daughter of Frederick Prince of Wales.

(1066) The American general.

510 Letter 333 To The Earl Of Strafford. Arlington Street, Sept. 13, 1759.

My dear lord, You are very good to say you would accept of my letters, though I should have
no particular news to tell you; but at present it would be treating heroes and conquerors with
great superciliousness, if I made use of your indulgence and said nothing of them.  We have
taken more places and ships in a week than would have set up such pedant nations as Greece
and Rome to all futurity.  If we did but call Sir William Johnson "Gulielmus Johnsonus Niagaricus,"
and Amherst "Galfridus Amhersta Ticonderogicus," we should be quoted a thousand years hence
as the patterns of valour, virtue, and disinterestedness; for posterity always ascribes all
manner of modesty and self-denial to those that take the most pains to perpetuate their own
glory.  Then Admiral Boscawen has, in a very Roman style, made free with the coast of Portugal,
and used it to make a bonfire of the French fleet.  When Mr. Pitt was told of this infraction
of a neutral territory, he replied, "It is very true, but they are burned."  In short, we want
but a little more insolence and a worse cause to make us a very classic nation.

My Lady Townshend, who has not learning enough to copy a Spartan mother, has lost her youngest
son.(1067)  I saw her this morning --her affectation is on t'other side she affects grief--but
not so much for the son she has lost, as for t'other that she may lose.

Lord George is come, has asked for a court-martial, was put off; and is turned out of every
thing.  Waldegrave has his regiment, for what he did; and Lord Granby the ordnance--for what
he would have done.

Lord Northampton is to be married(1068) to-night in full Comptonhood.  I am indeed happy that
Mr. Campbell(1069) is a general; but how will his father like being the dowager-general Campbell?

You are very kind, my lord (but that is not new,) in interesting Yourself about Strawberry
Hill.  I have just finished a Holbein-chamber, that I flatter myself you will not dislike;
and I have begun to build a new printing-house, that the old one may make room for the gallery
and round tower. This noble summer is not yet over us--it seems to have cut a colt's week-.
I never write without talking of it, and should be glad to know in how many letters this summer
has been mentioned.

I have lately been at Wilton, and was astonished at the heaps of rubbish.  The house is grand,
and the place glorious; but I should shovel three parts of the marbles and pictures into the
river.  Adieu, my lord and lady!

(1067) The Hon. Roger Townshend, third son of Viscount Townshend, killed at Ticonderoga on
the 25th of July.-E.

(1068) To Lady Anne Somerset.

(1069) Afterwards Duke of Argyle.

511 Letter 334 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(1070) Arlington Street, Sept. 13, 1759.

I intended to send you the brief chronicle of Lord George Sackville but your brother says he
has writ to you this morning.  If you want to know minute particulars, which neither he nor
I should care to detail in a letter, I will tell you them if you will call for a minute at
Strawberry on Sunday or Monday, as you go to your camp.  I ask this boldly, though I have not
been with you; but it was impossible; George Montagu and his brother returned to Strawberry
with me from the Vine, and I am expecting Mr. Churchill and Lady Mary, who sent me word they
would come to me as soon as I came back, and I think you will find them with me.

Lady Mary Coke is stripping off all the plumes that she has been wearing for Niagara, etc.,
and is composing herself into religious melancholy against to-morrow night, when she goes to
Princess Elizabeth's burial.  I passed this whole morning most deliciously at my Lady Townshend's.
Poor Roger, for whom she is not concerned, has given her a hint that her hero George may be
mortal too; she scarce spoke, unless to improve on some bitter thing that Charles said, who
was admirable.  He made me all the speeches that Mr. Pitt will certainly make next winter,
in every one of which Charles says, and I believe, he will talk of this great campaign, "memorable
to all posterity with all its imperfections-a campaign which, though obstructed, cramped, maimed--but
I will say no more."

The campaign in Ireland, I hear, will be very warm; the Primate is again to be the object;
Ponsonby, commander against him. Lord George's situation will not help the Primate's.  Adieu!

(1070) Now first printed.

512 Letter 335 To George Montagu, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Saturday, October 11, 1759.

I don't desire any such conviction of your being ill as seeing you nor can you wonder that
I wish to persuade myself that what I should be very sorry for, never happens.  Poor Fred.
Montagu's gout seems more serious: I am concerned that he has so much of a judge in him already.

You are very good in thinking of me about the sofas; but you know the Holbein chamber is complete,
and old matters arc not flung away upon you yourself Had not you rather have your sofa than
Lord Northampton's running footman? Two hundred years hence one might be amused with reading
of so fantastic a dress, but they are horrid in one's own time.  Mr. Bentley and I go to-morrow
to Chaffont for two or three days.  Mr. Chute is at the Vine already, but, I believe, will
be in town this week.

I don't know whether it proceeds from the menaced invasion or the last comet, but we are all
dying of heat.  Every body has put out their fires, and, if it lasts, I suppose will next week
make summer clothes.  The mornings are too hot for walking: last night I heard of strawberries.
I impute it to the hot weather that my head has been turned enough to contend with the bards
of the newspapers.  You have seen the French epigram on Madame Pompadour, and fifty vile translations
of it.  Here IS Mine--

O yes! here are flat-bottom boats to be sold, And soldiers to let-rather hungry than bold:
Here are ministers richly deserving to swing, And commanders whose recompense should be a string.
O France! still your fate you may lay at Pitt's door; You were saved by a Maid, and undone
by a * * *

People again believe the invasion; and I don't wonder, considering how great a militia we have,
with such a boy as you mention.  I own, before I begin to be afraid, I have a little curiosity
to see the militia tried.  I think one shall at least laugh before one cries.  Adieu!  what
time have you fixed for looking southwards?

P. S. Your pictures you may have when you please; I think you had better stay and take them
with you, than risk the rubbing them by the wagon.  Mr. M`untz has not been lately in town--
that is, Hannah has drawn no bill on him lately--so he knows nothing of your snuff-box.  This
it is to trust to my vivacity, when it is past Its bloom.  Lord! I am a mere antiquarian, a
mere painstaking mortal.  Mr. Bentley says, that if all antiquarians were like me, there would
be no such thing as an antiquarian, for I set down every thing, SO circumstantially that I
leave them nothing to find out.

513 Letter 336 To The Hon. H. S. Conway.(1071) Strawberry Hill, October 14th, 1759.

If Strawberry Hill was not so barren of events as Chatham, I would have writ to you again;
nay, if it did not produce the very same events.  Your own Light Horse are here, and commit
the only vivacities of the place--two or three of them are in the cage every day for some mischief
or other.  Indeed, they seem to have been taken from school too soon, and, as Rigby said of
some others of these new troops, the moment their exercise is over, they all go a bird's-nesting.
If the French load their flat-bottom boats with rods instead of muskets, I fear all our young
heroes will run away.  The invasion seems again come into fashion: I wish it would come, that
one might hear no more of it--nay, I wish it for two or three reasons. If they don't come,
we shall still be fatigued with the militia, who will never go to plough again till they see
an enemy: if there is a peace before the militia runs away, one shall be robbed every day by
a constitutional force.  I want the French too, to have come, that you may be released; but
that will not be soon enough for me, who am going to Park-place.  I came from Chaffont to-day,
and I cannot let the winter appear without making my Lady Ailesbury a visit. Hitherto my impediments
may have looked like excuses, though they were nothing less.  Lady Lyttelton goes on Wednesday:
I propose to follow her on Monday; but I won't announce myself, that I may not be disappointed,
and be a little more welcome by the surprise; though I should be very ungrateful, if I affected
to think that I wanted that.

I cannot say I have read the second letter on Lord George: but I have done what will satisfy
the booksellers more; I have bought nine or ten pamphlets: my library shall be au fait about
him, but I have an aversion to paper wars, and I must be a little more interested than I am
about him, before I can attend to them: my head is to be filled with more sacred trash.

The Speaker was here t'other day, and told me of the intimacy between his son and you and the
militia.  He says the lawyers are examining whether Lord George can be tried or not.  I am
sorry Lord Stormont is marriediski;(1072) he will pass his life under the north pole, and whip
over to Scotland by way of Greenland without coming to London.

I dined t'other day at Sion with the Holdernesses; Lady Mary Coke was there, and in this great
dearth of candidates she permits Haslang to die for her.  They were talking in the bow-window,
when a sudden alarm being given that dinner was on the table, he expressed great joy and appetite.
You can't imagine how she was offended.  Adieu!

(1071) Now first printed.

(1072) Lord Stormont had recently married Henrietta Frederica, daughter of count Bunau, of
Saxony.-E.

514 Letter 337 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Oct. 16, 1759.

I love to prepare your countenance for every event that may happen, for an ambassador, who
is nothing but an actor, should be that greatest of actors, a philosopher; and with the leave
of wise men (that is, hypocrites), philosophy I hold to be little more than presence of mind
now undoubtedly preparation is a prodigious help to presence of mind.  In short, you must not
be surprised that we have failed at Quebec, as we certainly shall.  You may say, if you please,
in the style of modern politics that your court never supposed it could be taken; the attempt
was only made to draw off the Russians from the King of Prussia, and leave him at liberty to
attack Daun.  Two days ago came letters from Wolfe, despairing, as much as heroes can despair
The town is well victualled, Amherst is not arrived, and fifteen thousand men encamped defend
it.  We have lost many men by the enemy, and some by our friends-that is, we now call our nine
thousand only seven thousand.  How this little army will get away from a much larger, and in
this season in that country, I don't guess--yes, I do.

You may be making up a little philosophy too against the invasion, which is again come into
fashion, and with a few trifling incidents in its favour, such as our fleet dispersed and driven
from their coasts by a great storm.  Before that, they were actually embarking, but with so
ill a grace that an entire regiment mutinied, and they say is broke.  We now expect them in
Ireland, unless this dispersion of our fleet tempts them hither.  If they do not come in a
day or two, I shall give them over.

You will see in our gazettes that we make a great figure in the East Indies.  In short, Mr.
Pitt and this little island appear of some consequence even in the map of the world.  He is
a new sort of Fabius,

----Qui verbis restituit rem.

Have you yet received the -watch? I see your poor Neapolitan Prince(1073) is at last set aside--I
should honour Dr. Serrao's integrity, if I did not think it was more humane to subscribe to
the poor boy's folly, than hazard his being poisoned by making it doubtful.

My charming niece is breeding--you see I did not make my lord Waldegrave an useless present.
Adieu! my dear Sir.

(1073) The King's second son, Don Philip, set aside for being in a state of incurable idiotcy.-E.

514 Letter 338 To The Hon. H. S. Conway. Strawberry Hill, Oct. 18, 1759.

I intended my visit to Park-place to show my lady Ailesbury
that when I come hither it is not solely on your account, and
yet I will not quarrel with my journey thither if I should find
you there; but seriously I cannot help begging you to think
whether you will go thither or not, just now.  My first thought
about you has ever been what was proper for you to do; and
though you are the man in the world that think of that the most
yourself, yet you know I have twenty scruples, which even you
sometimes laugh at.  I will tell them to You, and then you will
judge, as you can best.  Sir Edward Hawke and his fleet is
dispersed, at least driven back to Plymouth: the French, if one
may believe that they have broken a regiment for mutinying
against embarking, were actually embarked at that instant.  The
most sensible people I know, always thought they would postpone
their invasion, if ever they intended it, till our great ships
could not keep the sea, or were eaten up by the scurvy.  Their
ports are now free; their situation is desperate: the new
account of our taking Quebec leaves them in the most deplorable
condition; they will be less able than ever to raise money, we
have got ours for next year;                     and this event
would facilitate it, if we had not: they must try for a
          peace, they have nothing to go to market with but
Minorca.  In short, if they cannot strike some desperate blow
in this island or Ireland, they are undone: the loss of twenty
thousand men to do us                     some mischief, would
be cheap.  I should even think Madame Pompadour in danger of
being torn to pieces, if they did not make some attempt.
Madame Maintenon, not half so unpopular, mentions in one of her
letters her unwillingness to trust her niece Mademoiselle
            Aumale on the road, for fear of some such
accident.  You will smile perhaps at all this reasoning and
pedantry; but it tends to this--if desperation should send the
French somewhere, and the wind should force them to your coast,
which I do not suppose their object, and you should be out of
the way, you know what your enemies would say; and strange as
it is, even you have been proved to have enemies.
    My dear Sir, think of this! Wolfe, as I am convinced, has
fallen a                     sacrifice to his rash blame of
you.             If I understand any thing in the
    world, his letter that came on Sunday said this: "Qu`ebec
is impregnable; it is flinging away the lives of brave men to
attempt it.                I am in the situation of Conway at
Rochefort; but having blamed him, I must do what I now see he
was in the right to see was wrong and yet what he would have
done; and as I am commander-, which he was not, I have the
melancholy power of doing what he was prevented doing."(1074)
Poor man! his life has paid the price of his injustice; and as
his death has purchased such benefit to his country, I lament
him, as I am sure you, who have twenty times more courage and
good-nature than I have, do too.  In short, I, who never did
any thing right or prudent myself, (not, I am afraid, for want
of knowing what was so,) am content with your being perfect,
and with suggesting any thing to you that may tend to keep you
so;--and (what is not much to the present purpose) if such a
pen as mine can effect it, the world hereafter shall know that
you was so.  In short, I have pulled down my Lord Falkland, and
desire you will take care that I may speak the truth when I
erect you in his place; for remember, I love truth even better
than I love you.  I always confess my own faults, and I will
not palliate yours.  But, laughing apart, if you think there is
no weight in what I say, I shall gladly meet you at Park-place,
whither I shall go on Monday, and stay as long as I can, unless
I hear from you to the contrary.  If you should think I have
hinted any thing to you of consequence, would not it be
handsome, if, after receiving leave you should write to my Lord
Llegonier, that though you had been at home but one week in the
whole summer, yet there might be occasion for your presence in
the camp, you should decline the permission he had given you?-
-See what it is to have a wise relation, who preaches a
thousand fine things to you which he would be the last man in
the world to practise himself.  Adieu!

(1074) General Wolfe's letter, written four days before his death, which will be found in the
Chatham Correspondence, does not contain a single sentence which can be tortured into the construction
here given to it. "The extreme heat of the weather in August," he says, "and a good deal of
fatigue, threw me into a fever; but that the business might go on, I begged the generals to
consider amongst themselves what was fittest to be done.  Their sentiments were unanimous,
that (as the easterly winds begin to blow, and ships can pass the town in the night with provisions,
Artillery, etc.) we "should endeavour, by conveying a considerable corps into the upper river,
to draw them from their inaccessible situation and bring them to an action.  I agreed to the
proposal; and we are now here, with about three thousand six Hundred men, waiting an opportunity
to attack them, when and wherever they can best be got at.  The weather has been extremely
unfavourable for a day or two, so that we have been inactive.  I am so far recovered as to
do business; but my constitution is entirely ruined, without the consolation of having done
any considerable service to the state, or without any prospect of it."  Walpole, however, in
his animated description of the capture of Quebec, in his Memoires, does ample justice to the
character of Wolfe. "His fall," he says, "was noble indeed.  He received a wound in the head,
but covered it from his soldiers with his handkerchief. A second ball struck him in the belly:
that too he dissembled. A third hitting him on the breast, he sunk under the anguish, and was
carried behind the ranks.  Yet, fast as life ebbed out, his whole anxiety centred on the fortune
of the day. He begged to be borne nearer to the action; but his sight being dimmed by the approach
of death, he entreated to know what they who supported him saw; he was answered, that the enemy
gave ground; he eagerly repeated the question; heard the enemy was totally routed; cried, 'I
am satisfied!' and expired."-E.

516 Letter 339 To Sir Horace Mann. Strawberry Hill, Oct. 19, 1759.

I had no occasion to be in such a hurry to prepare your ambassadorial countenance; if I had
stayed but one day more, I might have left its muscles to behave as they pleased.  The notification
of a probable disappointment at Quebec came only to heighten the pleasure of the conquest.
You may now give yourself what airs you please, you are master of East and West Indies.  An
ambassador is the only man in the world whom bullying becomes: I beg your pardon, but you are
spies, if you are not bragadochios.  All precedents are on your side: Persians, Greeks, Romans,
always insulted their neighbours when they conquered Quebec.  Think how pert the French would
have been on such an occasion, and remember that they are Austrians to whom you are to be saucy.
You see, I write as if my name was Belleisle and yours Contades.

It was a very singular affair, the generals on both sides slain, and on both sides the second
in command wounded; in short, very near what battles should be, in which only the principals
ought to suffer.  If their army has not ammunition and spirit enough to fall again upon ours
before Amherst comes up, all North America is ours!

Poetic justice could not have been executed with more rigour than it has been on the perjury,
treachery, and usurpations of the French.  I hope Mr.-Pitt will not leave them at the next
treaty an opportunity of committing so many national crimes again.  How they or we can make
a peace, I don't see; can we give all back, or they give all up?  No, they must come hither;
they have nothing left for @it but to conquer us.

Don't think it is from forgetting to tell you particulars, that I tell you none; I am here,
and don't know one but what you will see in the Gazette, and by which it appears that the victory
was owing to the impracticability, as the French thought, and to desperate resolution on our
side.  What a scene! an army in the night dragging itself up a precipice by stumps of trees
to assault a town and attack an army strongly entrenched and double in numbers!

Adieu ! I think I shall not write to you again this twelvemonth; for, like Alexander, we have
no more worlds left to conquer.

P. S. Monsieur Thurot is said to be sailed with his tiny squadron --but can the lords of America
be afraid of half a dozen canoes ?  Mr. Chute is sitting by me, and says, nobody is more obliged
to Mr. Pitt than you are: he has raised you from a very comfortable situation to hold your
head above the Capitol.

518 Letter 341 To The Earl Of Strafford. Strawberry Hill, October 30th, 1759.

My dear lord, It would be very extraordinary indeed if I was not glad to see one Whose friendship
does me so much honour as your lordship's, and who always expresses so much kindness to me.
I have an additional reason for thanking you now, when you are creating a building after the
design of the Strawberry committee.  It will look, I fear, very selfish if I pay it a visit
next year; and yet it answers so many selfish purposes that I certainly shall.

My ignorance of all the circumstances relating to Quebec is prodigious; I have contented myself
with the rays of' glory that reached hither, without going to London to bask in them. I have
not even seen the conqueror's mother(1075) though I hear she has covered herself with more
laurel-leaves than were heaped on the children of the wood.

Seriously it is very great; and as I am too inconsiderable to envy Mr. Pitt, I give him all
the honour he deserves.

