Shakspeare appears to have formed a just conception of the great injury which the corporeal
frame experiences from a too close application of mind. The immortal bard observes,--

  "----Universal plodding poisons up
  The nimble spirits in the arteries
  As motion and long-during action tires
  The sinewy vigour of the traveller."

Love's Labour Lost.

In the consultations of Wesper we find related the history of a young man of family 22 years
of age, who, having applied himself incessantly to intense mental exertion, was seized with
a fit of insanity, in which fit he wounded several persons and killed his keeper. Catalepsy
has been known to have been produced by great mental application. Fomelius gives us a remarkable
instance of it. A man (says he) who passed whole nights in writing and studying, was suddenly
attacked with a fit of catalepsy: all his limbs stiffened in the attitude he was in when the
disease first seized him. He remained upon his seat, holding the pen in his hand, and with
his eyes fixed on his paper, so that he was considered to be still at his studies, till being
called to, and then shaken, he was found to be without motion or sensation.[4]

Many extraordinary instances are on record, of remarkable changes having been produced in birds
by an affection of the animal passions. The following fact is related by Mr. Young, in the
Edinburgh Geographical Journal. A blackbird had been frightened in her cage by a cat; when
it was relieved, it was found lying on its back, quite wet with perspiration. The feathers
fell off, and were renewed, but the new ones were perfectly white.

A similar phenomenon has been observed in the human species, who have been exposed to the effects
of inordinate passion. Borrelli relates the case of a French gentleman, who was thrown into
prison, and on whom fear operated so powerfully as to change his hair completely grey in the
course of one night. Dr. Darwin ascribes this phenomenon to the torpor of the vessels, which
circulates the fluids destined to nourish the hair. Nothing will, perhaps, demonstrate more
fully the effects of moral causes in producing disease than the structural alterations discoverable
in the bodies of those who have died whilst labouring under nostalgia, or the Swiss malady.
This disease is considered peculiar to the Swiss, and is occasioned by a desire of revisiting
their own country, and of witnessing again the scenes of their youth. This desire begins with
melancholy sadness, love of solitude, silence, bodily weakness, &c. and is only cured by returning
to their native country. Avenbrugger says, that in dissecting the bodies of those who have
died in consequence of this disease, organic lesions of the heart generally are detected. A
particular musical composition, supposed to be expressive of the happiness of the people, is
in great vogue in Switzerland. If this tune or piece of music is played among the Swiss in
any foreign country, it tends strongly to recall their affections for their native soil, and
their desire of returning, and to induce the desire called nostalgia consequent on their disappointment.
The effects of this musical composition is so powerful, that it is forbidden to be repeated
in the French camp on pain of death, it having at one period had the effect of producing a
mutiny among the Swiss soldiers, at that time in the employ of the French king.

Predictions of death, whether supposed to be supernatural, or emanating from human authority,
have often, in consequence of the poisonous effects of fear, been punctually fulfilled. The
anecdote is well attested, of the licentious Lord Littleton, that he expired at the exact stroke
of the clock, which in a dream or vision, he had been forewarned would be the signal of his
departure. In Lesanky's voyage round the world, there is an account of a religious sect in
the Sandwich Islands, who arrogate to themselves the power of praying people to death. Whoever
incurs their displeasure, receives notice that the homicide litany is about to begin, and such
are the effects of the imagination, that the very notice is frequently sufficient with these
people to produce the effect.

Thousands of other instances might be cited, illustrative of the fatal effects of inordinate
indulgence in passion.

    [1] A cleverly conducted work containing more popular information
        on Medicine, Surgery, and what are termed the collateral sciences,
        than we are accustomed to find in a "professional" journal.

    [2] Rammazini.

    [3] Preface de Narcisse Oeuvres, Diverses, t. l. v. 172.

    [4] Pathol. lib. 3. cap. 2. Oper. Omm. p. 406.

       *       *       *       *       *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT BRIDEWELL.[5]

The following curious facts, respecting the state of the metropolis during the reign of Queen
Elizabeth, are extracted from the weekly reports made by William Fletewood, Recorder of London,
to Lord Burghley:--

"My singuler good Lord, uppon Thursdaye, at even, her Majistie, in her coache, nere Islyngton,
taking of the air, her Highnes was environed with a nosmber of roogs. One Mr. Stone, a foteman,
cam in all hast to my Lord Maior, and after to me, and told us of the same. I dyd the same
nyght send warrants owt into the seyd quarters, and into Westminster and the Duchie; and in
the morning I went abrood my selff, and I tooke that daye lxxiiij. roogs, whereof some were
blynde, and yet great usurers, and very rich; and the same daye, towards nyght, I sent Mr.
Harrys and Mr. Smithe, the Governors of Bridwell, and tooke all the names of the roogs; and
then sent theym from the Sessions Hall into Bridwell, where they remayned that nyght. Uppon
Twelff daye, in the forenoone, the Master of the Rolls, my selff, and others, receyved a charge
before my Lords of the Counsell, as towching roogs and masterles men, and to have a pryvie
searche. The same daye, at after dyner (for I dyned at the Rolls), I mett the Governors of
Bridwell, and so that after nowne wee examined all the seyd roogs, and gave them substanciall
payment. And the stronger wee bestowed on the myine and the lighters; the rest wee dismyssed,
with the promise of a dooble paye if we met with theym agayne. Uppon Soundaye, being crastino
of the Twelffth daye, I dyned with Mr. Deane, of Westminster, where I conferred with hym touching
Westminster and the Duchie; and then I tooke order for Sowthwarke, Lambeth, and Newyngton,
from whence I receyved a shool of xl. roogs, men and women, and above. I bestowed theym in
Bridwell. I dyd the same after nowne peruse Pooles (St. Paul's), where I tooke about xxii.
cloked roogs, that there used to kepe standing. I placed theym also in Bridwell. The next mornyng,
being Mundaye, the Mr of the Rolls and the reste tooke order with the constables for a pryvie
searche agaynst Thursdaye, at nyght, and to have the offenders brought to the Sessions Hall
uppon Frydaye, in the mornyng, where wee the Justices shold mete. And agaynst the same tyme,
my Lo. Maior and I dyd the lyke in London and Sowthwarke. The same after nowne, the Masters
of Bridwell and I mett; and after every man had been examined, eche one receyved his payment
according to his deserts; at whiche tyme the strongest were put to worke, and the others dismissed
into theyre countries. The same daye the Mr of the Savoye was with us, and sayd he was sworne
to lodge 'claudicantes, egrotantes, et peregrinantes;' and the next morning I sent the constables
of the Duchie to the Hospitall, and they brought unto me at Bridwell, vj. tall fellowes, that
were draymen unto bruers, and were neither 'claudicantes, egrotantes, nor peregrinantes.' The
constables, if they might have had theyre owen wills, would have browght us many moor. The
master dyd wryte a very curtese letter unto us to produce theym; and although he wrott charitably
unto us, yet were they all soundly paydd, and sent home to theyre masters. All Tewsdaye, Weddensdaye,
and Thursdaye, there cam in nosmbers of roogs: they were rewarded all according to theyre deserts.--Uppon
Frydaye mornyng, at the Justice Hall, there were brought in above a C. lewd people taken in
the pryvie searche. The Mrs of Bridwell receyved theym, and immediately gave theym punishment.
This Satterdaye, after causes of consciens, herd by my Lord Maior and me, I dyned and went
to Polls (St. Paul's) and in other places, as well within the libertes as elsewhere. I founde
not one rooge styuyng. Emongst all these thynges, I dyd note that wee had not of London, Westm.,
nor Sowthwarke, nor yett Midd., nor Surr., above twelve, and those we have taken order for.
The resedew for the most were of Wales, Salop, Cestr., Somerset, Barks, Oxforde, and Essex;
and that few or none of theym had been about London above iij. or iiij. mownthes. I did note
also that wee mett not agayne with any, in all our searches, that had receyved punishment.
The chieff nurserie of all these evill people is the Savoye, and the brick-kilnes near Islyngton.
As for the brick-kilnes, we will take suche order that they shall be reformed; and I trust,
by yr. good Lordship's help, the Savoye shall be amended; for surelie, as by experiens I fynd
it, the same place, as it is used, is not converted to a good use or purpose. And this shall
suffice for roogs."--W.G.C.

    [5] See the Engraving, vol. xviii. p. 337 of The Mirror.

       *       *       *       *       *

POVERTY OF KINGS, AND THE BRITISH CROWN PAWNED.

As to increasing wealth by war, that has never yet happened to this nation; and, I believe,
rarely to any country. Our former kings most engaged in war were always poor, and sometimes
excessively so. Edward III. pawned his jewels to pay foreign forces; and magnam coronam Angliae,
his imperial crown, three several times--once abroad, and twice to Sir John Wosenham, his banker,
in whose custody the crown remained no less than eight years. The Black Prince, as Walsingham
informs us, was constrained to pledge his plate. Henry V., with all his conquests, pawned his
crown, and the table and stools of silver which he had from Spain. Queen Elizabeth is known
to have sold her very jewels.

G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

HEAD-DRESS OF THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY, IN ENGLAND.

In Wickliffe's Commentaries upon the Ten Commandments, in the midst of a moral exhortation,
he manages, by a few bold touches, to give us a picture of the fashionable head-dress of his day:--

"And let each woman beware, that neither by countenance, nor by array of body nor of head,
she stir any to covet her to sin. Not crooking (curling) her hair, neither laying it up on
high, nor the head arrayed about with gold and precious stones; not seeking curious clothing,
nor of nice shape, showing herself to be seemly to fools. For all such arrays of women St.
Peter and St. Paul, by the Holy Ghost's teaching, openly forbid."

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

SALADS.

Oil for salads is mentioned in the Paston Letters, in 1466, in which year Sir John Paston writes
to his mother, that he has sent her "ii. potts off oyl for salady's, whyche oyl was goode a
myght be when he delyv'yd yt, and schuld be goode at the reseyving yff itt was not mishandled
nor miscarryd." This indicates that vegetables for the table were then cultivated in England,
although the common opinion is, that most of our fruit and garden productions were destroyed
during the civil wars between the houses of York and Lancaster. A good salad, however, had
become so scarce some years afterwards, that Katharine, the queen of Henry VIII., is said,
on a particular occasion, to have sent to the continent to procure one.

D.P.

       *       *       *       *       *

ADVERTISEMENT OF THE OPENING OF THE LONDON COFFEE HOUSE, UPWARDS OF A CENTURY AGO.

"May, 1731.

G.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR WILLIAM JONES'S PLAN OF STUDY.

Some idea of the acquirements of the resolute industry with which Jones pursued his studies
may be formed from the following memorandum:--

"Resolved to learn no more rudiments of any kind, but to perfect myself in--first, twelve languages,
as the means of acquiring accurate knowledge of

  I. History.
  1. Man 2. Nature.

  II. Arts.
  1. Rhetoric. 2. Poetry. 3. Painting. 4. Music.

  III. Sciences.
  1. Law. 2. Mathematics. 3. Dialectics.

"N.B. Every species of human knowledge may be reduced to one or other of these divisions. Even
law belongs partly to the history of man, partly as a science to dialectics. The twelve languages
are Greek, Latin, Italian, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Hebrew, Arabic, Persian, Turkish, German,
English.--1780."

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAILING UP THE ESSEQUIBO.

By Captain J.E. Alexander, H.P., late 16th Lancers, M.R.G.S., &c.

My purpose was now to proceed up the noble Essequibo river towards the El Dorado of Sir Walter
Raleigh, and view the mighty forests of the interior, and the varied and beautiful tribes by
which they are inhabited. Our residence on the island of Wakenaam had been truly a tropical
one. During the night, the tree frogs, crickets, razor-grinders, reptiles, and insects of every
kind, kept up a continued concert. At sunrise, when the flowers unfolded themselves, the humming
birds, with the metallic lustre glittering on their wings, passed rapidly from blossom to blossom.
The bright yellow and black mocking-birds flew from their pendant nests, accompanied by their
neighbours, the wild bees, which construct their earthen hives on the same tree. The continued
rains had driven the snakes from their holes, and on the path were seen the bush-master (cona-couchi)
unrivalled for its brilliant colours, and the deadly nature of its poison; and the labari equally
poisonous, which erects its scales in a frightful manner when irritated. The rattlesnake was
also to be met with, and harmless tree snakes of many species. Under the river's bank lay enormous
caymen or alligators,--one lately killed measured twenty-two feet. Wild deer and the peccari
hog were seen in the glades in the centre of the island; and the jaguar and cougour (the American
leopard and lion) occasionally swam over from the main land.

We sailed up the Essequibo for a hundred miles in a small schooner of thirty tons, and occasionally
took to canoes or coorials to visit the creeks. We then went up a part of the Mazaroony river,
and saw also the unexplored Coioony: these three rivers join their waters about one hundred
miles from the mouth of the Essequibo. In sailing or paddling up the stream, the breadth is
so great, and the wooded islands so numerous, that it appears as if we navigated a large lake.
The Dutch in former times had cotton, indigo, and cocoa estates up the Essequibo, beyond their
capital Kykoveral, on an island at the forks or junction of the three rivers. Now, beyond the
islands at the mouth of the Essequibo there are no estates, and the mighty forest has obliterated
all traces of former cultivation. Solitude and silence are on either hand, not a vestige of
the dwellings of the Hollanders being to be seen; and only occasionally in struggling through
the entangled brushwood one stumbles over a marble tombstone brought from the shores of the
Zuyderzee.

At every turn of the river we discovered objects of great interest. The dense and nearly impenetrable
forest itself occupied our chief attention; magnificent trees, altogether new to us, were anchored
to the ground by bush-rope, convolvuli, and parasitical plants of every variety. The flowers
of these cause the woods to appear as if hung with garlands. Pre-eminent above the others was
the towering and majestic Mora, its trunk spread out into buttresses; on its top would be seen
the king of the vultures expanding his immense wings to dry after the dews of night. The very
peculiar and romantic cry of the bell-bird, or campanero, would be heard at intervals; it is
white, about the size of a pigeon, with a leathery excrescence on its forehead, and the sound
which it produces in the lone woods is like that of a convent-bell tolling.

A crash of the reeds and brushwood on the river's bank would be followed by a tapir, the western
elephant, coming down to drink and to roll himself in the mud; and the manati or river-cow
would lift its black head and small piercing eye above the water to graze on the leaves of
the coridore tree. They are shot from a stage fixed in the water, with branches of their favourite
food hanging from it; one of twenty-two cwt. was killed not long ago. High up the river, where
the alluvium of the estuary is changed for white sandstone, with occasionally black oxide of
manganese, the fish are of delicious flavour; among others, the pacoo, near the Falls or Rapids,
which is flat, twenty inches long, and weighs four pounds; it feeds on the seed of the arum
arborescens, in devouring which the Indians shoot it with their arrows: of similar genus are
the cartuback, waboory, and amah.

The most remarkable fish of these rivers are, the peri or omah, two feet long; its teeth and
jaws are so strong, that it cracks the shells of most nuts to feed on their kernels, and is
most voracious; the Indians say that it snaps off the breasts of women, and emasculates men.
Also the genus silurus, the young of which swim in a shoal of one hundred and fifty over the
head of the mother, who, on the approach of danger, opens her mouth, and thus saves her progeny;
with the loricaria calicthys, or assa, which constructs a nest on the surface of pools from
the blades of grass floating about, and in this deposits its spawn which is hatched by the
sun. In the dry season this remarkable fish has been dug out of the ground, for it burrows
in the rains owing to the strength and power of the spine; in the gill-fin and body it is covered
with strong plates, and far below the surface finds moisture to keep it alive. The electric
eel is also an inhabitant of these waters, and has sometimes nearly proved fatal to the strongest
swimmer. If sent to England in tubs, the wood and iron act as conductors, and keep the fish
in a continued state of exhaustion, causing, eventually, death: an earthenware jar is the vessel
in which to keep it in health.

(To be concluded in our next.)

       *       *       *       *       *

FINE ARTS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CROSSES.[6]

