420
    Minor Notes:--Chaucer's Monument Robert Herrick
      --Epitaph of a Wine Merchant--Father Blackhal--
      The Nonjurors--Booksellers' Catalogues--Bailie
      Nicol Jarvie--Camels in Gaul                           420

  QUERIES:--

    Bibliographical Queries                                   421
    Dryden's "Essay upon Satire"                              422
    Minor Queries:--Ænius Silvius (Pope Pius II.)--
      "Please the Pigs"--To save one's Bacon--Arabic
      Numerals--Cardinal--"By the bye"--Poisons--
      Cabalistic Author--Brandon the Juggler--Jacobus
        Præfectus Siculus--The Word "after" in the Rubric--
        Hard by--Thomas Rogers of Horminger--Armorial
        Bearings--Lady Compton's Letter to her Husband--
        Romagnasi's Works--Christopher Barker's Device        423

  REPLIES:--

    Licensing of Books, by C.H. Cooper                        425
    Remains of James II., by Dr. J.R. Wreford                 427
    Judge Cradock, by H.T. Ellacombe                          427
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Replies by George Stephens:
        On a Passage in the "Tempest;" Legend of a Saint;
        Cupid and Psyche; Kongs Skuggsia--Disputed Passage
        in the "Tempest"--Viscount Castlecomer--Steele's
        Burial-place--Cure for Warts--Etymology of
        "Parse"                                               429

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

    Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                    430
    Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                              431
    Notice to Correspondents                                  431
    Advertisements                                            431

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

THE OLDENBURG HORN.

The highly interesting collection of pictures at Combe Abbey, the seat of the Earl of Craven,
in Warwickshire, was, for the most part, bequeathed by Elizabeth, Queen of Bohemia, the daughter
of James I., to her faithful attendant, William, Earl of Craven. The collection has remained,
entire and undisturbed, up to the present time. Near the upper end of the long gallery is a
picture which doubtless formed a part of the bequest of the Queen of Bohemia, and of which
the following is a description:--

Three quarters length: a female figure, standing, with long curling light hair, and a wreath
of flowers round the head. She wears a white satin gown, with a yellow edge; gold chain on
the stomacher, and pearl buttons down the front. She has a pearl necklace and earrings, with
a high plaited chemisette up to the necklace; and four rows of pearls, with a yellow bow, round
the sleeve. She holds in her hands a large highly ornamented gold horn. The back-ground consists
of mountains. Underneath the picture is this inscription:

    "Anno post natum Christum 939. Ottoni comiti Oldenburgico in venatione
    vehementer sitibundo virgo elegantissima ex monte Osen prodiens cornu
    argenteum deauratum plenum liquore ut biberet obtulit. Inspecto is
    liquore adhorruit, ac eundum bibere recusavit. Quo facto, subito Comes
    a virgine discedens liquorem retro super equum quem mox depilavit
    effudit, cornuque hic depictum secum Oldenburgum in perpetuam illius
    memoriam reportavit. Lucretio de Sainct Simon pinxit."

The painting is apparently of the first part of the seventeenth century. The ordinary books
of reference do not contain the painter's name.

The same legend as that contained in this inscription, though with fuller details, is given
by the brothers Grimm, in their collection of Deutsche Sagen, No. 541. vol. ii. p. 317., from
two Oldenburg chronicles. According to this version Otto was Count of Oldenburg in the year
990 or 967. [The chronicles appear to differ as to his date: the inscription of the Combe Abbey
picture furnishes a third date.] Being a good hunter, and fond of hunting, he went, on the
20th of July, in this year, attended by his nobles and servants, to hunt in the forest of Bernefeuer.
Here he found a deer, and chased it alone from this wood to Mount Osen: but in the pursuit
he left his companions and even his dogs behind; and he stood alone, on his white horse, in
the middle of the mountain. Being now exhausted by the great heat, he exclaimed: "Would to
God that some one had a draught of cold water!" As soon as the count had uttered these words,
the mountain opened, and from the {418} chasm there came a beautiful damsel, dressed in fine
clothes, with her hair divided over her shoulders, and a wreath of flowers on her head. In
her hand she held a precious silver-gilt hunting-horn, filled with some liquid; which she offered
to the count, in order that he might drink. The count took the horn, and examined the liquid,
but declined to drink it. Whereupon the damsel said: "My dear lord, drink it upon my assurance;
for it will do you no harm, but will tend to your good." She added that, if he would drink,
he and his family, and all his descendants, and the whole territory of Oldenburg, would prosper:
but that, if he refused, there would be discord in the race of the Counts of Oldenburg. The
count, as was natural, mistrusted her assurances, and feared to drink out of the horn: however,
he retained it in his hand, and swung it behind his back. While it was in this position some
of the liquid escaped; and where it fell on the back of the white horse, it took off the hair.
When the damsel saw this, she asked him to restore the horn; but the count, with the horn in
his hand, hastened away from the mountain, and, on looking back, observed that the damsel had
returned into the earth. The count, terrified at the sight, spurred on his horse, and speedily
rejoined his attendants: he then recounted to them his adventure, and showed them the silver-gilt
horn, which he took with him to Oldenburg. And because this horn was obtained in so wonderful
a manner, it was kept as a precious relic by him and all his successors in the reigning house
of Oldenburg.

The editors state that richly decorated drinking-horn was formerly preserved, with great care,
in the family of Oldenburg; but that, at the present time [1818], it is at Copenhagen.

The same story is related from Hamelmann's Oldenburg Chronicle, by Büsching, in his Volksagen
(Leips. 1820), p. 380., who states that there is a representation of the horn in p. 20. of
the Chronicle, as well as in the title-page of the first volume of the Wunderhorn.

Those who are accustomed to the interpretation of mythological fictions will at once recognise
in this story an explanatory legend, invented for the purpose of giving an interest to a valuable
drinking-horn, of ancient work, which belonged to the Counts of Oldenburg. Had the story not
started from a basis of real fact, but had been pure fiction, the mountain-spirit would probably
have left, not silver gilt, but a gold horn, with the count. Moreover, the manner in which
she suffers herself to be outwitted, and her acquiescence in the loss of her horn, without
exacting some vengeance from the incredulous count, are not in the spirit of such fictions,
nor do they suit the malignant character which the legend itself gives her. If the Oldenburg
horn is still preserved at Copenhagen, its date might doubtless be determined by the style
of the work.

Mount Osen seems to have been a place which abounded in supernatural beings. Some elves who
came from this mountain to take fresh-brewed beer, and left good, though unknown money, to
pay for it, are mentioned in another story in the Deutsche Sagen, (No.43. vol. i. p. 55.)

L.

    [Having had an opportunity of inspecting a copy of Hamelmann's
    Chronicle, at present belonging to Mr. Quaritch, in which there is a
    very interesting engraving of the horn in question (which may possibly
    have been a Charter Horn), we are not disposed to pronounce it older
    than the latter end of the fifteenth century. If, however, it is still
    preserved at Copenhagen, some correspondent there will perhaps do us
    the favour to furnish us with a precise description of it, and with the
    various legends which are inscribed upon it.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

GREEK PARTICLES ILLUSTRATED BY THE EASTERN LANGUAGES.

The affinity which exists between such of the vernacular languages of India as are offshoots
of the Sanscrit, as the Hindostanee, Mahratta, Guzeratee, &c., and the Greek, Latin, German,
and English languages, is now well known to European scholars, more especially since the publication
of the researches of Vans Kennedy, Professor Bopp of Berlin, &c. Indeed, scarcely a day passes
in which the European resident in India may not recognise, in his intercourse with the natives,
many familiar words in all those languages, clothed in an oriental dress. I am inclined also
to think that new light may be thrown upon some of the impracticable Greek particles by a reference
to the languages of the East; and without wishing to be understood as laying down anything
dogmatically in the present communication, I hope, through the medium of your valuable publication,
to attract attention to this subject, and invite discussion on it. Taking, as an illustration,
the 233d line of the first book of the Iliad, where the hero of the poem is violently abusing
Agamemnon for depriving him of his prize, the fair maid Briseis, he says,

  [Greek: "All' ek toi ereô, kai epi megan horkon homoumai."]

What is the meaning of [Greek: ek] in the above line? It is commonly construed with [Greek:
ereô], and translated, "I plainly tell thee--I declare to thee;" [Greek: exereô], "I speak
out--proclaim." But may it not be identical with the Sanscrit ek, "one," a word, as most of
your readers are doubtless aware, in universal use throughout India, Persia, &c; the rendering
literally running thus:

  "But one thing I tell thee," &c.

That this is the original sense of the line appears probable by comparing it with line 297.
of the {419} same book, where in the second speech of Achilles, that impiger, iracundus, inexorabilis,
acer, chieftain again scolds "the king of men,"--

  "[Greek: Allo de toi ereô, sy d' ene phresì balleo sêsi.]"
      "And another thing I tell thee."

This rendering receives additional confirmation by a comparison with the following:

  "[Greek: Touto de toi ereô.]"
      Il. iii. 177., and Od. vii. 243.
  "[Greek: Panta de toi ereô.]"
      Od. iv. 410., and x. 289.

In the last three lines [Greek: Allo], [Greek: Touto], and [Greek: Panta] stand precisely in
the same relation to [Greek: ereô] that [Greek: ek] does in the first, [Greek: All'] merely
taking the place of [Greek: de], for the sake of versification.

  "But one thing I tell thee.
  And another thing I tell thee.
  But this thing I tell thee.
  And all things I tell thee."

It is not impossible that [Greek: exereô] may be a compound of [Greek: ek], "one," and [Greek:
ereô], "I speak." There is in the Hindostanee an analogous form of expression, Ek bat bolo,
"one word speak." This is constantly used to denote, speaking plainly; to speak decidedly;
one word only; no display of unnecessary verbiage to conceal thought; no humbug; I tell thee
plainly; I speak solemnly--once for all; which is precisely the meaning of [Greek: exereô]
in all the passages where it occurs in Homer: e.g. Il. i. 212. (where it is employed by Minerva
in her solemn address to Achilles); Il. viii. 286., Od. ix. 365. (where it is very characteristically
used), &c.

The word ace (ace of spades, &c.) I suppose you will have no difficulty in identifying with
the Sanscrit ek and the Greek [Greek: eis], the c sometimes pronounced hard and sometimes soft.
The Sanscrit das, the Greek [Greek: dek-a], and the Latin dec-em, all signifying ten, on the
same principle, have been long identified.

J. SH.

Bombay.

       *       *       *       *       *

SAMUEL ROWLANDS, AND HIS CLAIM TO THE AUTHORSHIP OF "THE CHOISE OF CHANGE."

Mr. T. Jones in "NOTES AND QUERIES" (Vol. i., p. 39.), describing a copy of The Choise of Change
in the Chetham Library, unhesitatingly ascribes its authorship to the well-known satirist,
Samuel Rowlands, whom he says, "appears to have been a Welshman from his love of Triads." Mr.
JONES'S dictum, that the letters "S.R.," on the title-page "are the well-known initials of
Samuel Rowlands," may well, I think, be questioned. Great caution should be used in these matters.
Bibliographers and catalogue-makers are constantly making confusion by assigning works, which
bear the initials only, to wrong authors.

The Choise of Change may with much more probability be given to a very different author. I
have a copy of the edition of 1598 now before me, in which the name is filled up, in a cotemporary
hand, S[imon], R[obson]. And I find in Lowndes' Bibliographer's Manual, that the work in question
is entered under the latter name. The compiler adds,--"This piece is by some attributed to
Dr. Simon Robson, Dean of Bristol in 1598; by others, most probably erroneously, to Samuel
Rowland." An examination of the biography of Dr. Robson, who died in 1617, might tend to elucidate
some particulars concerning his claim to the authorship of this and several other works of
similar character.

Samuel Rowland's earliest publication is supposed to have been The Betraying of Christ, &c.,
printed in 1598. If it can be proved that he has any claim to The Choise of Change (first printed
in 1585), we make him an author thirteen years earlier. In the title-page of the latter, the
writer, whoever he was, is styled "Gent and Student in the Universitie of Cambridge." This
is a fact of some importance towards the elucidation of authorship and has, I believe, escaped
the notice of those writers who have touched upon Samuel Rowland's scanty biography. But I
can hardly conceive that either of the publications above alluded to came from the same pen
as Humours Ordinarie, Martin Mark-all, The Four Knaves, and many others of the same class,
which are known to have been the productions of Samuel Rowlands.

Respecting Samuel Rowlands it may be regarded as extraordinary that no account has been discovered;
and though his pamphlets almost rival in number those of Greene, Taylor, and Prynne, their
prefaces--those fruitful sources of information--throw no light upon the life or circumstances
of their author. The late Mr. Octavius Gilchrist considered that "Rowlands was an ecclesiastic
[?] by profession;" and, inferring his zeal in the pulpit from his labours through the press,
adds, "it should seem that he was an active servant of the church." (See Fry's Bibliographical
Memoranda, p. 257.) Sir Walter Scott (Preface to his reprint of The Letting of Humours Blood
in the Head Vaine) gives us a very different idea of the nature of his calling. His words are:

    "Excepting that he lived and wrote, none of those industrious
    antiquaries have pointed out any particulars respecting Rowland[s]. It
    has been remarked that his muse is seldom found in the best company;
    and to have become so well acquainted with the bullies, drunkards,
    gamesters, and cheats, whom he describes, he must have frequented the
    haunts of dissipation in which such characters are to be found. But the
    humorous descriptions of low-life exhibited in his satires are more
    precious to antiquaries than more grave works, and those who make the
    manners of Shakspeare's {420} age the subject their study may better
    spare a better author than Samuel Rowlands."

    The opinions of both these writers are entitled to some respect, but
    they certainly looked upon two very different sides of the question.
    Gilchrist's conjecture that he was an ecclesiastic is quite untenable,
    and I am fully inclined to agree with Sir Walter Scott, that Rowlands'
    company was not of the most select order, and that he must often have
    frequented those "haunts of dissipation" which he so well describes in
    those works which are the known production of his muse.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

"APRICOT," "PEACH," AND "NECTARINE," ETYMOLOGY OF.

There is something curious in the etymology of the words "apricot," "peach," and "nectarine,"
and in their equivalents in several languages, which may amuse your readers.

The apricot is an Armenian or Persian fruit, and was known to the Romans later than the peach.
It is spoken of by Pliny and by Martial.

Plin. N.H., lib. xv. c. 12.:

    "Post autumnum maturescunt Persica, æstate præcocia, intra xxx annos
    reperta."

Martial, lib. xiii. Epig. 46.:

  "Vilia maternis fueramus præcoqua ramis,
    Nunc in adaptivis Persica care sumus."

Its only name was given from its ripening earlier than the peach.

The words used in Galen for the same fruit (evidently Græcised Latin), are [Greek: prokokkia]
and [Greek: prekokkia]. Elsewhere he says of this fruit, [Greek: tautês ekleleiphthai to palaion
onoma]. Dioscorides, with a nearer approach to the Latin, calls apricots [Greek: praikokia.]

From præcox, though not immediately, apricot seems to be derived.

Johnson, unable to account for the initial a, derives it from apricus. The American lexicographer
Webster gives, strangely enough albus coccus as its derivation.

The progress of the word from west to east, and then from east to south-west, and from thence
northwards, and its various changes in that progress, are rather strange.

One would have supposed that the Arabs, living near the region of which the fruit was a native,
might have either had a name of their own for it, or at least have borrowed one from Armenia.
But they apparently adopted a slight variation of the Latin, [Greek: to palaion onoma], as
Galen says, [Greek: exeleleiptô].

The Arabs called it [Arabic: brqwq] or, with the article, [Arabic: albrqwq].

The Spaniards must have had the fruit in Martial's time, but they do not take the name immediately
from the Latin, but through the Arabic, and call it albaricoque. The Italians, again, copy
the Spanish, not the Latin, and call it albicocco. The French, from them, have abricot. The
English, though they take their word from the French, at first called it abricock, then apricock
(restoring the p), and lastly, with the French termination, apricot.

From malum persicum was derived the German Pfirsiche, and Pfirsche, whence come the French
pêche, and our peach. But in this instance also, the Spaniards follow the Arabic [Arabic: bryshan],
or, with the article [Arabic: albryshan], in their word alberchigo. The Arabic seems to be
derived from the Latin, and the Persians, though the fruit was their own, give it the same name.

Johnson says that nectarine is French, but gives no authority. It certainly is unknown to the
French, who call the fruit either pêche lisse, or brugnon. The Germans also call it glatte
Pfirsche.

Can any of your readers inform me what is the Armenian word for apricot, and whether there
is any reason to believe that the Arabic words for apricot and peach, are of Armenian and Persian
origin? If it is so, the resemblance of the one to præcox, and of the other to persicum, will
be a curious coincidence, but hardly more curious than the resemblance of [Greek: pascha] with
[Greek: paschô] which led some of the earlier fathers, who were not Hebraists, to derive [Greek:
pascha] from [Greek: paschô].

E.C.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Chaucer's Monument.--It may interest those of your readers who are busying themselves in the
praiseworthy endeavour to procure the means of repairing Chaucer's Monument, especially Mr.
Payne Collier, who has furnished, in the November Number of the Gentleman's Magazine (p. 486.),
so curious an allusion from Warner's Albion's England, to

  "---- venerable Chaucer, lost
  Had not kind Brigham reared him cost,"

to know that there is evidence in Smith's Life of Nollekens, vol. i. p. 79., that remains of
the painted figure of Chaucer were to be seen in Nolleken's times. Smith reports a conversation
between the artist and Catlin, so many years the principal verger of the abbey, in which Catlin
inquires,

    "Did you ever notice the remaining colours of the curious little figure
    which was painted on the tomb of Chaucer?"

M.N.S.

    [We have heard one of the lay vicars of Westminster {421} Abbey, now
    deceased, say, that when he was a choir boy, some sixty-five or seventy
    years since, the figure of Chaucer might be made out by rubbing a wet
    finger over it.]

Robert Herrick (Vol. i., p. 291.)--There is a little volume entitled Selections from the Hesperides
and Works of the Rev. Robert Herrick. (Antient) Vicar of Dean-Prior, Devon. By the late Charles
Short, Esq., F.R.S. and F.S.A., published by Murray in 1839. I believe it was recalled or suppressed,
and that copies are rare.

J.W.H.

Epitaph of a Wine Merchant.--The following is very beautiful, and well deserves a Note. It
is copied from an inscription in All Saints Church, Cambridge.

  "In Obitum Mri. Johannis Hammond Oenopolae Epitaphium.
  Spiritus ascendit generosi Nectaris astra,
    Juxta Altare Calix hic jacet ecce sacrum,
  Corporum [Greek: anastasei] cum fit Communia magna
    Unio tunc fuerit Nectaris et Calicis."

J.W.H.

Father Blackhal.--In the Brief Narration of Services done to Three noble Ladies by Gilbert
Blackhal (Aberdeen, Spalding Club, 1844), the autobiographer states (p. 43.) that, while at
Brussels, he provided for his necessities by saying mass "at Notre Dame de bonne successe,
a chapel of great devotion, so called from a statue of Our Lady, which was brought from Aberdeen
to Ostend," &c. It may be interesting to such of your readers as are acquainted with this very
amusing volume, to know that the statue is still held in honour. A friend of mine (who had
never heard of Blackhal) told me, that being at Brussels on the eve of the Assumption (Aug.
14), 1847, he saw announcements that the Aberdeen image would be carried in procession on the
approaching festival. He was obliged, however, to leave Brussels without witnessing the exhibition.

As to Blackhal himself, The Catholic Annual Register for the present year (p. 207.) supplies
two facts which were not known to his editor--that he was at last principal of the Scots College
at Paris, and that he died July 1. 1671.

J.C.R.

The Nonjurors (Vol. ii., p. 354.).--May I take the liberty of suggesting to MR. YEOWELL that
his interesting paper on "The Oratories of the Nonjurors," would have been far more valuable
if he had given the authorities for his statements.

J.C.R.

Booksellers' Catalogues.--Allow me to suggest the propriety and utility of stating the weight
or cost of postage to second-hand and other books. It would be a great convenience to many
country book-buyers to know the entire cost, carriage-free, of the volumes they require, but
have never seen.

ESTE.

Bailie Nicol Jarvie.--Lockhart, in his Life of Scott, speaking of the first representation
of Rob Roy on the Edinburgh boards, observes--

    "The great and unrivalled attraction was the personification of Bailie
    Jarvie by Charles Mackay, who, being himself a native of Glasgow,
    entered into the minutest peculiarities of the character with high
    gusto, and gave the west country dialect in its most racy
    perfection."

But in the sweetest cup of praise, there is generally one small drop of bitterness. The drop,
in honest Mackay's case, is that by calling him a "native of Glasgow," and, therefore, "to
the manner born," he is, by implication, deprived of the credit of speaking the "foreign tongue"
like a native. So after wearing his laurels for a quarter of a century with this one withered
leaf in them, he has plucked it off, and by a formal affidavit sworn before an Edinburgh bailie,
the Glasgow bailie has put it on record that he is really by birth "one of the same class whom
King Jamie denominated a real Edinburgh Gutter-Bluid." If there is something droll in the notion
of such an affidavit, there is, assuredly, something to move our respect in the earnestness
and love of truth which led the bailie to make it, and to prove him a good honest man, as we
have no doubt, "his father, the deacon, was before him."

EFFESSA.

Camels in Gaul.--The use of camels by the Franks in Gaul is more than once referred to by the
chroniclers. In the year 585, the treasures of Mummolus and the friends of Gondovald were carried
from Bordeaux to Convennes on camels. The troops of Gontran who were pursuing them--

    "invenerunt camelos cum ingenti pondere auri atque argenti, sive
    equos quos fessos per vias reliquerat"--Greg. Turon., l. vii. c. 35.

And after Brunichild had fallen into the hands of Chlotair, she was, before her death, conducted
through the army on a camel:--

    "Jubetque eam camelum per omnem exercitum sedentem
    perducere."--Fredegarius, c. 42.

By what people were camels first brought into Gaul? By the Romans; by the Visigoths; or by
the Franks themselves?

R.J.K.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL QUERIES.

(Continued from page 325.)

(13.) Is it not a grievous and calumnious charge against the principal libraries of England,
Germany, and France, that not one of them contains a copy of the Florentine Pandects, in three
folio {422} volumes, "magnifice, ac pereleganter, perque accurate impressis," as Fabricius
speaks? (Bibl. Græc. xii: 363.) This statement, which may be but a libel, is found in Tilgner
(Nov. lib. rar. Collect. Fascic. iv. 710.), Schelhorn (Amæn. Lit. iii. 428.), Vogt (Catal.
p. 562. Hamb. 1738), and Solger (Biblioth. i 163.). According to the last writer, the edition
in question, Florent. 1553, (for a fac-simile of the letters of the original MS. see Mabillon's
Iter Italicum, p. 183.) is,--"splendidissima, et stupendæ raritatis, quæ in tanta est apud
Eruditos æstimatione ut pro 100 Imperialibus sæpius divendita fuerit." Would that the race
of such purchasers was not extinct! In Gibbon's notice of this impression (Decline and Fall,
iv. 197. ed. Milman), there are two mistakes. He calls the editor "Taurellus" instead of Taurellius;
and makes the date "1551", when it should have been 1553. These errors, however, are scarcely
surprising in a sentence in which Antonius Augustinus is named "Antoninus." The Archbishop
of Tarragona had received a still more exalted title in p. 193., for there he was styled "Antoninus
Augustus." Are these the author's faults, or are they merely editorial embellishments?

(14.) In what year was the improved woodcut of the Prelum Ascensianum used for the first time?
And has it been observed that the small and separated figures incised on the legs of this insigne
of Jodocus Badius may sometimes be taken as a safe guide with reference to the exact date of
the works in which this mark appears? As an argument serving to justify the occasional adoption
of this criterion I would adduce the fact, that the earliest edition of Budæus De Contemptu
Rerum fortuitarum is believed to have been printed in 1520 (Greswell's Parisian Greek Press,
i. 39.), and this year is accordingly visible in the title-page on the print of the Prelum
Ascensianum. That recourse must, however, be had with caution to this method of discovering
a date, is manifest; from the circumstance, that 1521, or perhaps I should say an injured 1520,
appears on the Badian Device in the third impression of the same treatise (the second with
the expositio), though it was set forth "postridie Cal. April 1528."

(15.) Is it owing to the extreme rarity of copies of the first edition of the Pagninian version
of the Scriptures that so many writers are perplexed and ignorant concerning it? One might
have expected that such a very remarkable impression in all respects would have been so well
known to Bishop Walton, that he could not have asserted (Proleg. v.) that it was published
in 1523; and the same hallucination is perceptible in the Elenchus Scriptorum by Crowe (p.
4.) It is certain that Pope Leo X. directed that Pagnini's translation should be printed at
his expense (Roscoe, ii. 282.), and the Diploma of Adrian VI. is dated "die, xj. Maij. M.D.XXIII.,"
but the labours of the eminent Dominican were not put forth until the 29th of January, 1527.
This is the date in the colophon; and though "1528" is obvious on the title-page, the apparent
variation may be accounted for by remembering the several ways of marking the commencement
of the year. (Le Long, by Masch, ii. 475.; Chronol. of Hist., by Sir H. Nicolas, p. 40.) Chevillier
informs us (Orig. de l'Imp. p. 143.) that the earliest Latin Bible, in which he had seen the
verses distinguished by ciphers, was that of Robert Stephens in 1557. Clement (Biblioth. iv.
147.) takes notice of an impression issued two years previously; and these bibliographers have
been followed by Greswell (Paris. G. P. i. 342. 390.). Were they all unacquainted with the
antecedent exertions of Sante Pagnini (See Pettigrew's Bibl. Sussex. p. 388.)

(16.) Why should Panzer have thought that the true date of the editio princeps of Gregorius
Turonensis and Ado Viennensis, comprised in the same small folio volume, was 1516? (Greswell,
i. 35.) If he had said 1522, he might have had the assistance of a misprint in the colophon,
in which "M.D.XXII." was inserted instead of M.D.XII.; but the royal privilege for the book
is dated, "le douziesme iour de mars lan milcinqcens et onze," and the dedication of the works
by Badius to Guil. Parvus ends with "Ad. XII Kalendas Decemb. Anni huius M.D.XII."

(17.) Who was the author of Peniteas cito? And is it not evident that the impression at Cologne
by Martinus de Werdena, in 1511, is considerably later than that which is adorned on the title-page
with a different woodcut, and which exhibits the following words proceeding from the teacher:
"Accipies tanti doctoris dogmata sancta?"

R.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

DRYDEN'S "ESSAY UPON SATIRE."

On what evidence does the statement rest, that the Earl of Mulgrave was the author of the Essay
upon Satire, and that Dryden merely corrected and polished it? As at present advised, I have
considerable doubt upon the point: and although, in modern editions of Dryden's Works, I find
it headed An Essay upon Satire, written by Mr. Dryden and the Earl of Mulgrave, yet in the
State Poems, vol. i. p. 179., originally printed in the lifetime of Dryden, it is attributed
solely to him--"An Essay upon Satyr. By J. Dryden, Esq." This gets rid of the assertion in
the note of "D.," in the Aldine edition of Dryden (i. 105.), that "the Earl of Mulgrave's name
has been always joined with Dryden's, as concerned in the composition." Was it not first published
without notice that any other person was concerned in it but Dryden?

The internal evidence, too, is strong that Dryden was the author of it. I do not here refer
to the {423} free, flexible, and idiomatic character of the versification, so exactly like
that of Dryden; but principally to the description the Essay upon Satire contains of the Earl
of Mulgrave himself, beginning,

  "Mulgrave had much ado to scape the snare,
  Though learn'd in those ill arts that cheat the fair;
  For, after all, his vulgar marriage mocks,
  With beauty dazzled Numps was in the stocks;" Earlier in the poem we meet with a
description of Shaftesbury, which cannot fail to call to mind Dryden's
character of him in Absalom and Achitophel; which, as we know, did not
make its appearance, even in its first shape, until two years after Dryden
was cudgelled in Rose Street as the author of the Essay upon Satire.

And what does Dryden (for it must be he who writes) say of Shaftesbury in the Essay upon Satire?

  "As by our little Machiavel we find,
  That nimblest creature of the busy kind:
  His limbs are crippled, and his body shakes,
  Yet his hard mind, which all this bustle makes,
  No pity on its poor companion takes."

If Mulgrave wrote these lines, and Dryden only corrected them, Dryden was at all events indebted
to Mulgrave for the thought of the inequality, and disproportion between the mind and body
of Shaftesbury. Moreover, we know that Pope expunged the assertion subsequently made, that
Dryden had been "punished" (not beaten, as "D." quotes the passage) "for another's rhimes,"
when he was bastinadoed, in 1679, at the instigation of Rochester, for the character of him
in the Essay upon Satire.

It might suit Mulgrave's purpose afterwards to claim a share in this production; but the evidence,
as far as I am acquainted with it, seems all against it. There may be much evidence on the
point with which I am not acquainted, and perhaps some of your readers will be so good as to
point it out to me. The question is one that I am, at this moment, especially interested in.

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Æneas Silvius (Pope Pius II.).--A broadsheet was published in 1461, containing the excommunication
and dethronement of the Archbishop and Elector Dietrich of Mayence, issued and styled in the
most formidable terms by Pius II. This broadsheet, consisting of eighteen lines, and printed
on one side only, appears from the uniformity of its type with the Rationale of 1459, to be
the product of Fust and Schöffer.

No mention whatever is made of this typographical curiosity in any of the standard bibliographical
manuals, from which it seems, that this broadsheet is UNIQUE. Can any information, throwing
light upon this subject, be given?

QUERIST.

November, 1850.

"Please the Pigs" is a phrase too vulgarly common not to be well known to your readers. But
whence has it arisen? Either in "NOTES AND QUERIES," or elsewhere, it has been explained as
a corruption of "Please the pix." Will you allow another suggestion? I think it possible that
the pigs of the Gergesenes (Matthew viii. 28. et seq.) may be those appealed to, and that the
invocation may be of somewhat impious meaning. John Bradford, the martyr of 1555, has within
a few consecutive pages of his writings the following expressions:

    "And so by this means, as they save their pigs, which they would not
    lose, (I mean their worldly pelf), so they would please the
    Protestants, and be counted with them for gospellers, yea, marry, would
    they."--Writings of Bradford, Parker Society ed., p.390.

Again:

    "Now are they willing to drink of God's cup of afflictions, which He
    offereth common with His son Christ our Lord, lest they should love
    their pigs with the Gergenites." p. 409.

Again:

    "This is a hard sermon: 'Who is able to abide it?' Therefore, Christ
    must be prayed to depart, lest all their pigs be drowned. The devil
    shall have his dwelling again in themselves, rather than in their
    pigs." p. 409.

These, and similar expressions in the same writer, without reference to any text upon the subject,
seem to show, that men loving their pigs more than God, was a theological phrase of the day,
descriptive of their too great worldliness. Hence, just as St. Paul said, "if the Lord will,"
or as we say, "please God," or, as it is sometimes written, "D.V.," worldly men would exclaim,
"please the pigs," and thereby mean that, provided it suited their present interest, they would
do this or that thing.

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield.

    [We subjoin the following Query, as one so closely connected with the
    foregoing, that the explanation of the one will probably clear up the
    obscurity in which the other is involved.]

{424} To save One's Bacon.--Can you or any of your correspondents inform me of the origin of
the common saying, "He's just saved his bacon?" It has puzzled me considerably, and I really
can form no conjecture why "bacon" should be the article "saved."

C.H.M.

Arabic Numerals.--I should be glad to know something about the projected work of Brugsh, Berlin,
referred to in Vol. ii., p. 294.,--its size and price.

J.W.H.

Cardinal.--"Never did Cardinal bring good to England."--We read in Dr. Ligard's History (vol.
iv. p. 527.), on the authority of Cavendish, that when the Cardinals Campeggio and Wolsey adjourned
the inquiry into the legality of Henry VIII.'s marriage with Catharine of Arragon, "the Duke
of Suffolk, striking the table, exclaimed with vehemence, that the 'old saw' was now verified,--'Never
did Cardinal bring good to England.'" I should be glad to know if this saying is to be met
with elsewhere, and what gave rise to it?

O.P.Q.

"By the bye," &c.--What is the etymology of the phrases "by the bye," "by and by," and such like?

J.R.N.

Poisons.--Our ancestors believed in the existence of poisons made so artfully that they did
not operate till several years after they were administered. I should be greatly obliged by
any information on this subject obtained from English books published previously to 1600.

M.

Cabalistic Author.--Who was the author of a chemical and cabalistical work, not noticed by
Lowndes, entitled:

    "A philosophicall epitaph in hierogliphicall figures. A briefe of the
    golden calf (the world's idol). The golden ass well managed, and Midas
    restored to reason. Written by J. Rod, Glauber, and Jehior, the three
    principles or originall of all things. Published by W.C., Esquire, 8vo.
    Lond. Printed for William Cooper, at the Pellican, in Little Britain,
    1673."

With a long catalogue of chemical books, in three parts, at the end. My copy has two titles,
the first being an engraved one, with ten small circles round it, containing hieroglyphical
figures, and an engraved frontispiece, which is repeated in the volume, with some other cuts.
There are two dedications, one to Robert Boyle, Esq., and the other to Elias Ashmole, Esq.;
both signed "W.C. or twice five hundred," which signature is repeated in other parts of the
book. What is the meaning of "W.C. or twice five hundred"?

T. CR.

Brandon the Juggler.--Where is any information to be obtained of Brandon the Juggler, who lived
in the reign of King Henry VIII.?

T. CR.

Jacobus Præfectus Siculus.--I have a beautiful copy of a poem by this person, entitled De Verbo
DEI Cantica. The binding expresses its date: "Neapoli, 1537." It is not, I believe, the work
which suggested to Milton his greater songs, though it is a pretty complete outline of the
Paradise Lost and Regained/ What is known about the author, or any other works of his?

J.W.H.

The Word "after" in the Rubric--Canons of 1604.--

1. Can any of your correspondents who may have in their possession any old Greek, or Latin,
or other versions, of the Book of Common Prayer, kindly inform me how the word after is rendered
in the rubrics of the General Confession, the Lord's Prayer in the Post Communion, and the
last prayer of the Commination Service? Is it in the sense of post or secundum?

2. Where can any account of the translation of the Canons of 1604 into English be found? It
is apprehended the question is one more difficult to answer than might be supposed.

T.Y.

Hard by.--Is not hard by a corruption of the German hierbei? I know no other similar instance
of the word hard, that is to say, as signifying proximity, without the conjoint idea of pressure
or pursuit.

K.

Thomas Rogers of Horninger.--Can any of the readers of your valuable publication give me, or
put me in the way of obtaining, any information about one Thomas Rogers, who was in some way
connected with the village of Horninger or Horringer, near Bury St. Edmunds, was author of
a work on the Thirty-nine Articles, and died in the year 1616?

S.G.

Corpus Christi Col., Cambridge.

Armorial Bearings.--Three barrulets charged with six church bells, three, two, and one, is
a shield occurring in the Speke Chauntry, in Exeter Cathedral. Can this coat be assigned?

J.W.H.

Lady Compton's Letter to her Husband.--In Bishop Goodman's Court of King James I., edited by
John S. Brewer, M.A. (vol. ii. p. 127..), is a letter from Lady Compton to her husband, William
Lord Compton, afterwards Earl of Northampton, written upon occasion of his coming into possession
of a large fortune. This letter, with some important variations, is also given in Knight's
London (vol. i. p. 324.), and, if my memory does not deceive me, in Hewitt's Visits to Remarkable
Places. This letter is very curious, but I can hardly think it genuine. Can any of your correspondents
throw any light on the matter? Was it printed before 1839, when Mr. Brewer's work appeared?
Where is the original, or supposed original, to be seen? Above all, is it authentic? If not,
is it known when, and by {425} whom, and under what circumstances it was written?

C.H. COOPER.

Cambridge, November 15. 1850.

Romagnasi's Works.--In a "Life of G.D. Romagnasi," in vol. xviii. Law Mag., p. 340., after
enumerating several of his works, it is added, "All these are comprised in a single volume,
Florentine edit. of 1835." I have in vain endeavoured to procure the work, and have recently
received an answer from the first book establishment in Florence, to the effect that no such
edition ever appeared either at Florence or elsewhere.

This is strange after the explicit statement in the Law Mag., and I shall be obliged to receive
through the medium of your useful pages any information regarding the work in question.

F.R.H.

Christopher Barker's Device.--I have often been puzzled to understand the precise meaning of
the inscription on Christopher Barker's device. Whether this arises from my own ignorance,
or from any essential difficulty in it, I cannot tell; but I should be glad of an explanation.
I copy from a folio edition of the Geneva Bible, "imprinted at London by Christopher Barker,
printer to the Queene's Majesty, 1578."

The device consists of a boar's head rising from a mural crown, with a scroll proceeding from
its mouth, and embracing a lamb in the lowest fold. The inscription on this scroll is as follows:--

  "Tigre  .  Reo.
  Animale  .  Del.
  Adam  .  Vecchio.
  Figliuolo  .  Merce.
  L'Evangelio  .  Fatto.
  N'Estat  .  Agnello."

I venture my own solution:--The tiger, the wicked animal, of the old Adam, being made, thanks
to the Gospel, a son, is hence become a lamb."

I presume N'Estat to be an abbreviation of "ne è stato." Any correction or illustration of
this will oblige.

C.W. BINGHAM.

Bingham's Melcombe, Blandford.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

LICENSING OF BOOKS.

(Vol. ii., p.359.)

On the 12th November, 5 & 6 Philip and Mary, 1558, a bill "That no man shall print any book
or ballad, &c., unless he be authorized thereunto by the king and queen's majesties licence,
under the Great Seal of Englande," was read for the first time in the House of Lords, where
it was read again a second time on the 14th. On the 16th it was read for the third time, but
it did not pass, and probably never reached the Commons; for Queen Mary died on the following
day, and thereby the Parliament was dissolved. (Lords' Journal, i. 539, 540.) Queen Elizabeth,
however did by her high prerogative what her sister had sought to effect by legislative sanction.
In the first year of her reign, 1559, she issued injunctions concerning both the clergy and
the laity: the 51st Injunction was in the following terms:--

    "Item, because there is great abuse in the printers of books, which for
    covetousness chiefly regard not what they print, so they may have gain,
    whereby ariseth the great disorder by publication of unfruitful, vain,
    and infamous books and papers; the queen's majesty straitly chargeth
    and commandeth, that no manner of person shall print any manner of book
    or paper, of what sort, nature, or in what language soever it be,
    except the same be first licensed by Her Majesty by express words in
    writing, or by six of her privy council; or be perused and licensed by
    the Archbishops of Canterbury and York, the Bishop of London, the
    chancellors of both universities, the bishop being ordinary, and the
    archdeacon also of the place, where any such shall be printed, or by
    two of them, whereof the ordinary of the place to be always one. And
    that the names of such, as shall allow the same, to be added in the end
    of every such work, for a testimony of the allowance thereof. And
    because many pamphlets, plays, and ballads be oftentimes printed,
    wherein regard would be had that nothing therein should be either
    heretical, seditious, or unseemly for Christian ears; Her Majesty
    likewise commandeth that no manner of person shall enterprise to print
    any such, except the same be to him licensed by such Her Majesty's
    commissioners, or three of them, as be appointed in the city of London
    to hear and determine divers clauses ecclesiastical, tending to the
    execution of certain statutes made the last parliament for uniformity
    of order in religion. And if any shall sell or utter any manner of
    books or papers, being not licensed as is abovesaid, that the same
    party shall be punished by order of the said commissioners, as to the
    quality of the fault shall be thought meet. And touching all other
    books of matters of religion, or policy, or governance, that have been
    printed, either on this side the seas, or on the other side, because
    the diversity of them is great, and that there needeth good
    consideration to be had of the particularities thereof, Her Majesty
    referreth the prohibition or permission thereof to the order, which her
    said commissioners within the city of London shall take and notify.
    According to the which, Her Majesty straitly chargeth and commandeth
    all manner her subjects, and especially the wardens and company of
    stationers, to be obedient.

    "Provided that these orders do not extend to any profane authors and
    works in any language, that have been heretofore commonly received or
    allowed in any of the universities or schools, but the same may be
    printed, and used as by good order they were accustomed."--Cardswell's
    Documentary Annals, i. 229.

This injunction was, I take it, the origin of the licensing of the press of this country. On
the 23d June, 28 Eliz. 1586 (not 1585, as in Strype), {426} Archbishop Whitgift and the Lords
of the Privy Council in the Star Chamber made rules and ordinances for redressing abuses in
printing. No printing-press was to be allowed elsewhere than in London (except one in each
University); and no book was to be printed until first seen and perused by the Archbishop of
Canterbury or Bishop of London; with an exception in favour of the queen's printer, and books
of the common law, which were to be allowed by the Chief Justices and Chief Baron, or one of
them. Extensive and arbitrary powers of search for unlicensed books and presses were also given
to the wardens of the Stationers' Company. (Strype's Life of Archbishop Whitgift, 222.; Records,
No.XXIV.) On the 1st July, 1637, another decree of a similar character was made by the Court
of Star Chamber. (Rushworth's Historical Collections, Part ii. p.450.) The Long Parliament,
although it dissolved the Star Chamber, seems to have had no more enlightened views as respects
the freedom of the press than Queen Elizabeth or the Archbishops Whitgift and Laud; for on
the 14th June, 1643, the two Houses made an ordinance prohibiting the printing of any order
or declaration of either House, without order of one or both Houses; or the printing or sale
of any book, pamphlet, or paper, unless the same were approved and licensed under the hands
of such persons as both or either House should appoint for licensing the same. (Parliamentary
History, xii. 298.) The names of the licensers appointed are given in Neal's History of the
Puritans (ed. 1837, ii. 205.).

On the 28th September, 1647, the Lords and Commons passed a still more severe ordinance, which
imposed pains and penalties on all persons printing, publishing, selling, or uttering any book,
pamphlet, treatise, ballad, libel, or sheet of news, without the licence of both, or either
House of Parliament, or such persons as should be thereunto authorised by one or both Houses.
Offending hawkers, pedlars, and ballad-chappers were to be whipped as common rogues. (Parliamentary
History, xvi. 309.) We get some insight into the probable cause of this ordinance from a letter
of Sir Thomas Fairfax to the Earl of Manchester, dated "Putney, 20th Sept., 1647." He complains
of some printed pamphlets, very scandalous and abusive, to the army in particular, and the
whole kingdom in general; and expresses his desire that these, and all of the like nature,
might be suppressed for the future. (Lords' Journals, ix. 457.) Gilbert Mabbott was accordingly
appointed licenser of such weekly papers as should be printed, but resigned the situation 22nd
May, 1649. (Commons' Journals, vi. 214.) It seems he had conscientious objections to the service,
for elsewhere it is recorded, under the same date, "Upon Mr. Mabbott's desire and reasons against
licensing of books to be printed, he was discharged of that imployment." (Whitelock's Memorials,
389.) On the 20th September, 1649, was passed a parliamentary ordinance prohibiting printing
elsewhere than in London, the two Universities, York, and Finsbury, without the licence of
the Council of State (Scobell's Ordinances, Part ii. 90.); and on the 7th January, 1652-3,
the Parliament passed another ordinance for the suppression of unlicensed and scandalous books.
(Scobell's Ordinances, Part ii. 231.) In 1661 a bill for the regulation of printing passed
the Lords, but was rejected by the Commons on account of the peers having inserted a clause
exempting their own houses from search; but in 1662 was passed the statute 13 & 14 Car. II.
c. 33., which required all books to be licensed as follows:--Law books by the Lord Chancellor,
or one of the Chief Justices, or Chief Baron; books of history and state, by one of the Secretaries
of State; of heraldry, by the Earl Marshal, or the King-at-Arms; of divinity, physic, philosophy,
or whatsoever other science or art, by the Archbishop of Canterbury or the Bishop of London:
or if printed at either University, by the chancellor thereof. The number of master printers
(exclusive of the king's printers and the printers of the Universities) was to be reduced to
twenty, and then vacancies were to be filled up by the Archbishop of Canterbury and Bishop
of London, and printing was not to be allowed elsewhere than in London, York (where the Archbishop
of York was to license all books), {427} and the two Universities. This Act was to continue
for two years, from 10th June, 1662. It was renewed by the 16 Car. II. c. 8.; 16 & 17 Car.
II. c. 7.; and 17 Car. II. c. 4., and expired on the 26th May, 1679,--a day rendered ever memorable
by the passing of the Habeas Corpus Act: but in less than a year afterwards the judges unanimously
advised the king that he might by law prohibit the printing and publishing of all news-books
and pamphlets of news not licensed by His Majesty's authority; and accordingly on the 17th
May, 1680, appeared in the Gazette a proclamation restraining the printing of such books and
pamphlets without license. The Act of 1662 was revived for seven years, from 24th June, 1685,
by 1 Jac. II. c. 17. s. 15., and, even after the Revolution, was continued for a year longer
by 4 & 5 Wm. and Mary, c. 24. s. 14. When that year expired, the press of England became free;
but on the 1st of April, 1697, the House of Commons, after passing a vote against John Salusbury,
printer of the Flying Post, for a paragraph inserted in that journal tending to destroy the
credit and currency of Exchequer Bills, ordered that leave should be given to bring in a bill
to prevent the writing, printing, and publishing any news without licence. Mr. Poultney accordingly
presented such a bill on the 3rd of April. It was read a first time; but a motion to read it
a second time was negatived. (Commons' Journals, xi. 765. 767.) This attempt again to shackle
the press seems to have occasioned

    "A Letter to a Member of Parliament showing that a restraint on the
    Press is inconsistent with the Protestant Religion and dangerous to the
    Liberties of the Nation." Printed 1697, and reprinted in Cobbett's
    Parliamentary History, v. App. p. cxxx.

C.H. COOPER.

Cambridge, October 29. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

REMAINS OF JAMES II.

(Vol. ii., pp. 243. 281.)

To the information which has recently been furnished in your pages respecting the remains of
James II., it may be not uninteresting to add the inscription which is on his monument in the
church of St. Germain-en-Laye, and which I copied, on occasion of my last visit to France.

The body of the king, or a considerable portion of it, which had remained unburied, was, I
believe, interred at St. Germain soon after the termination of the war in 1814; but it being
necessary to rebuild the church, the remains were exhumed and re-interred in 1824. Vicissitudes
as strange in death as in life seem to have attended this unhappy king.

The following is the inscription now on his monument in the parish church of St. Germain:

        "REGIO CINERI PIETAS REGIA.

  "Ferale quisquis hoc monumentum suspicis
      Rerum humanarum vices meditare
  Magnus in prosperis in adversis major
        Jacobus 2. Anglorum Rex.
  Insignes ærumnas dolendaque nimium fata
        Pio placidoque obitu exsolvit
              in hac urbe
       Die 16. Septemb. anni 1701.
  Et nobiliores quædam corporis ejus partes
        Hic reconditæ asservantur."

       *       *       *       *       *

  Qui prius augustâ gestabat fronte coronam
  Exiguâ nunc pulvereus requiescit in urnâ
  Quid solium--quid et alta juvant! terit omnia lethum,
  Verum laus fidei ac morum haud peritura manebit
  Tu quoque summe Deus regem quem regius hospes
  Infaustum excepit tecum regnare jubebis."

But a different inscription formerly was placed over the king's remains in this church, which
has now disappeared; at all events, I could not discover it; and I suppose that the foregoing
was preferred and substituted for that, a copy of which I subjoin:

    "D.O.M. Jussu Georgii IV. Magnæ Britanniæ &c., Regis, et curante Equite
    exc. Carolo Stuart Regis Britanniæ Legato, cæteris antea rite peractis
    et quo decet honore in stirpem Regiam hic nuper effossæ reconditæ sunt
    Reliquiæ Jacobi II., qui in secundo civitatis gradu clarus triumphis in
    primo infelicior, post varios fortunæ casus in spem melioris vitæ et
    beatæ resurrectionis hic quievit in Domino, anno MDCCI, v. idus
    Septemb., MDCCCXXIV."

At the foot of the monument were the words--

  "Depouilles mortelles de Jacques 2. Roi d'Angleterre."

A third monumental inscription to the memory of James II., in Latin, is to be seen in the chapel
of the Scotch College in Paris. This memorial was erected in 1703, by James, Duke of Perth.
An urn, containing the brains of the king, formerly stood on the top of it. A copy of this
inscription is preserved in the Collectanea Topographica et Genealogica, vol. vii.

J. REYNELL WREFORD, D.D.

Bristol, November 8. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUDGE CRADOCK.

My transplantation from Gloucester to Devonshire, and the consequent unapproachable state of
my books, prevents my referring to authorities at the moment in support of what I have said
about the arms of Judge Cradock alias Newton: still I wish to notice the subject at once that
I may not appear to shrink from the Query of S.A.Y. (Vol. ii., p. 371.)

I happen to have at hand a copy of the Grant {428} of Arms to Sir John of East Harptree, Somerset,
in 1567 in which, on the authority of the heralds of the day, arg. on a chevron az. 3 garbs
or, are granted to him in the first quarter as the arms of Robert Cradock alias Newton. The
Judge seems to have been the first of the family who dropped the name of Cradock. His forefathers,
for several generations (from Howel ap Grononye, who was Lord of Newton, in Rouse or Trenewith,
in Poursland), went by the name of Cradog Dom. de Newton.

Robert Cradock, mentioned in the Grant I have quoted, married Margaret Sherborne. He was the
Judge's great-great-grandfather. Sir John Newton, to whom the grant was made, lies buried at
East Harptree; and on his tomb may be seen (besides his effigies as large as life) the twelve
quarterings in their original (?) blazoning, impaled with those of his wife, one of the Pointz
family. The same arms (of Newton) are still discernible on a beautifully wrought, though now
much mutilated shield, over one of the doors of Barres Court, at East Hanham, in Bitton, Gloucestershire,
where Newton also had a residence, where John Leland on his itinerary visited him, and says
(Itin. vol. vii. p. 87.) "his very propre name is Caradoc," &c. This property Newton inherited
as a descendant from the De Bittons or Button (through Hampton), a family of great note in
their day, and residents on the site of Barres Court, a "fayr manner place of stone," which
evidently took its name from Sir John Barre, who married Joan, the relict of Robert Greyndon,
and daughter of Thomas Roug by Catherine, who was the last heiress of that branch of De Bittons--(she
died 1485, and is buried with her first husband at Newlond). Of the same family were the three
bishops of that name, in the reigns of the early Edwards; one of which, Thomas, Bishop of Exeter
in 1299, was the pious founder of a chantry chapel adjoining Bitton Church, over the bodies
of his father and another, who were buried there; the building itself is quite an architectural
gem. The said bishop must also have resided there, for in 1287, when Dean of Wells, the Lord
of the Manor of that part of Bitton where his estate lay, impounded some of his cattle, and
had a trial thereon at Gloucester, as appears by a Placite Roll of that date.

I send you a copy of the Grant of Arms, as it may be interesting, to publish--besides, it is
a reply to the latter part of S.A.Y.'s Query. It is copied from the Ashmol. MSS. No. 834. p. 34.

Of the Newtons of Yorkshire I know nothing; but if S.A.Y. wishes to question me further, I
shall be happy to receive his communication under his own proper sign-manual.

In Nichols' Leicestershire, vol. iv. pt. 2. p. 807., is a pedigree of Cradock bearing the same
arms, and it is there laid down that Howel ap Gronow was slain by the French in 1096, and buried
at Llandilo Vawr; also that the Judge was called Newton from his birth-place. (It is in Montgomeryshire,
I believe.) Matthew Cradock, who lies in Swansea Church, bore different arms.

    "To all and singular as well nobles and gentills as others to whom
    these presents shall come, we, Sir Gilbert Dethicke, knight, alias
    Garter, principall kinge of armes for the Order of the Garter, Robte.
    Cooke, alias Clarenciault, kinge of armes of the south, William Flower
    alias Norroy, kinge of armes of the northe, and all others the
    hereauldes of armes send humble commendacion and gretinge: that whereas
    we being required by Sir John Newton, of Richmond Castill, in the
    countie of Somersett, knight, to make serche for the ancient armes
    descendinge to him from his ancetors [sic], at whose requeste we, the
    said kinges and hereauldes of armes have not only made diligent serche
    in our regesters, but also therewithall perused diverse of his ancient
    evidence and other monumentes, whereuppon we doe fynd that the said Sir
    John Newton, knight, maye beare twelve severall cotes, that is to say,
    the armes of Robte. Cradocke alias Newton, the armes of Robte.
    Sherborne, the arms of Steven Angle, the armes of Steven Pirot, the
    armes of John Harvie, the armes of Sir John Sheder, knight, the armes
    of Richard Hampton, the armes of Sir John Bitton, knight, the armes of
    Sir Matthewe Ffurneault, knight, the armes of Walter Cawdecot, the
    armes of Sir Aunsell Corney, knight, and the armes of Sir Henry
    Harterie, knight. All which armes doth plainlie appere depicted in the
    Margent; and for that the said Sir John Newton is yncertaine of any
    creaste which he ought to beare by his owne proper name, he therefore
    hath also required vs, the said kings and hereauldes of armes, to
    assigne and confirme vnto him and his posteritie for ever, the creaste
    of Sir Auncell Corney, knight, which Sir Auncell Corney, as it doth
    appere by divers ancient evidence and other monuments of the said Sir
    John Newton, was at the winnynge of Acom with Kinge Richard the First,
    where he toke prisoner a kinge of the Mores: and farther, the said Sir
    John Newton, knight, hath made goode proofe for the bearinge of the
    same creaste, that the heires male of the said Sir Auncell Corney is
    extingueshed, and the heires generall do only remaine in him. In
    consideracion whereof wee, the said kinges and herehauldes of arms, do
    give, confirme, and grant vnto the said Sir John Newton and his
    posteritie for ever, the said creaste of Sir Auncell Corney, knight,
    that is to say, vppon his helme on a torce silver and asure, a kinge of
    the Mores armed in male, crowned gold, knelinge vpon his left knee
    rendring vppe his sworde, as more plainly aperith depicted in this
    Margent, to have and to horold the said creast to him and his
    posteretie, with there due difference to vse, beare, and show in
    shelde, cote armour, or otherwise, for ever, at his or their libertie
    and pleasure, without impediment, let, or interruption of any parson or
    parsons.

Clyst St George, Nov. 4. 1850. Nichols refers to them as his authority for Cradock's pedigree,
as laid down in his Leicestershire (vol. iv. part ii. p. 807.).

H.T.E.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

REPLIES BY GEORGE STEPHENS.

I beg to encloze ðe following scraps, purposely written on slips, ðat ðe one may be destroyed
and not ðe oðer if you should þink fit so to do, and for eaze ov printing.

Pleaze to respect my orþography--a beginning to a better system--if you can and will. Ðe types
required will only be ðe Ð, ð, and Þ, þ, ov our noble Anglo-Saxon moðer-tongue, letterz in
common use almost down to ðe time ov Shakspeare!

If you will not be charmed, ov course you are at liberty to change it.

I have a large work in ðe press (translationz from ðe A.-Saxon) printed entirely in ðis orþography.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Stockholm.

The construction is thus merely an instance of a common ellipsis (here of the word busy), and
requires the comma after least. This is another proof of the advantage of being slow to abandon
primitive texts.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Saint, Legend of a (Vol. ii., pp. 267.).--The circumstance alluded to is perhaps that in the
legend of St. Patrick. It was included by Voragine in his life of that saint. See the "Golden
Legend" in init.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Cupid and Psyche (Vol. ii., pp. 247.).--This is probably an old Folk-tale, originally perhaps
an antique philosophical temple-allegory. Apuleius appears only to have dressed it up in a
new shape. The tale is still current, but in a form not derived from him, among the Swedes,
Norwegians, Danes, Scots, Germans, French, Wallachians, Italians, and Hindoos. See Svenska
Folk-sagor och Afventyr, efter muntlig Ofverlemning samlade och utgifna of G.O.H. Cavallius
och G. Stephens, vol. i. (Stockholm, 1844-9), p. 323.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Kongs Skuggsia (Vol. ii., pp 296. 335.).--This noble monument of Old Norse literature was written
at the close of the twelfth century by a Norwegian of high rank, but who expresses his resolution
to remain unknown, in which he has perfectly succeeded. He probably resided near Trondhjem.
See, for other information, the preface to the last excellent edition lately published by Keyser,
Munch, and Unger, as follows:--

    "Speculum Regale Konungs-Skuggsjá Konge-Speilet et
    philosophisk-didaktisk Skrift, forfattet i Norge mod slutningen af det
    tolfte aarhundrede. Tilligemed et samtidigt Skrift om den norske kirkes
    Stilling til Statem. Med to lithographerede Blade
    Facsimile-Aftryck."--Christiana, 1848. 8vo.

GEORGE STEPHENS.

Stockholm. I adhere to the reading of the folio of 1632, except that I would strike out the
final s in labours. The passage would then read:

  "But these sweet thoughts so refresh my labour
  Most busy least, when I do it."

That is, the thoughts so refresh my labour, that I am "most busy least" (an emphatic way of
saying least busy), "when I do it," to wit, the labour. MR. HICKSON is ingenious, but he takes
no notice of--

COMMA.

Viscount Castlecomer (Vol. ii., p. 376.).--S.A.Y. asks whether Lord Deputy Wandesford (not
Wanderforde) "ever took up this title, and what became of it afterwards?" He never did; for
on the receipt of the patent, in the summer of 1640, Wandesford exclaimed, "Is this a time
for a faithful subject to be exalted, when his king, the fountain of honours, is likely to
be reduced lower than ever." A few months afterwards he died of a broken heart. We are told
that he concealed the patent, and his grandson was the first of the family--apparently by a
fresh creation in 1706--who assumed the title. The neglect of sixty-six years, perhaps, rendered
this necessary: Beatson does not notice the first creation. The life of this active and useful
statesman, the friend and relative of Strafford, was compiled from his daughter's papers, by
his descendant, Thomas Comber, LL.D. Of this work Dr. Whitaker availed himself in the very
interesting memoir which he has given of the Lord Deputy, in his History of Richmondshire,
written, as we may suppose it would be by so devoted {430} an admirer of Charles I., with the
warmest feelings of respect and admiration.

    "The death of my cousin Wandesford," said Lord Strafford, "more affects
    me than the prospect of my own; for in him is lost the richest magazine
    of learning, wisdom, and piety that these times could boast."

J.H.M.

Bath.

Steele's Burial-place (Vol. ii., pp. 375, 441.).--I have been able to get the following particulars
respecting Steele's burial-place. Steele was buried in the chancel of St. Peter's church, Caermarthen.
The entry stands thus in the Register:--

  "1729.
  "Sep. 4. Sr Richard Steel."

There is no monument to his memory in St. Peter's Church; but in Llangunnor church, about two
miles from Caermarthen, there is a plain monumental tablet with the following inscription:--

    "This stone was erected at the instance of William Williams, of Ivy
    Tower, owner of Penddaylwn Vawr, in Llangunnor; part of the estate
    there once belonging to the deservedly celebrated Sir Richard Steele,
    knight, chief author of the essays named Tatlers, Guardians, and
    Spectators; and he wrote The Christian Hero, The Englishman, and The
    Crisis, The Conscious Lovers, and other fine plays. He represented
    several places in parliament; was a staunch and able patriot; finally,
    an incomparable writer on morality and Christianity. Hence the ensuing
    lines in a poem, called The Head of the Rock:--

  'Behold Llangunnor, leering o'er the vale,
  Pourtrays a scene t' adorn romantic tale;
  But more than all the beauties of its site,
  Its former owner gives the mind delight.
  Is there a heart that can't affection feel
  For lands so rich as once to boast a Steele?
  Who warm for freedom, and with virtue fraught,
  His country dearly lov'd, and greatly taught;
  Whose morals pure, the purest style conveys,
  T' instruct his Britain to the last of days.'"

Steele resided at White House (Ty Gwyn, as it is called in Welsh), a clean farm-house half
way between Caermarthen and Llangunnor church, which is situate on a hill commanding extensive
views of one of the prettiest values in Wales. A field near the house is pointed out as the
site of Steele's garden, in the bower of which he is said to have written his "Conscious Lovers."
The Ivy Bush, formerly a private house, and said to be the house where Steele died, is now
the principal inn in Caermarthen.

WM. SPURRELL.

Caermarthen.

Cure for Warts (Vol. i., p. 482.)-- In Buckinghamshire I have heard of the charming away of
warts by touching each wart with a separate green pea. Each pea being wrapped in paper by itself,
and buried, the wart will vanish as the pea decays.

J.W.H.

Etymology of "Parse" (Vol. ii., p. 118.).--Surely to parse is to take by itself each pars,
or part of speech. The word does not seem to have been known in 1611 when Brinsley published
his Posing of the Parts: or, a most plain and easie Way of examining the Accidence and Grammar.
This work appears to have been very popular, as I have by me the twelfth edition, London, 1669.
In 1612, the same author issued his Ludus Literarius: or the Grammar Schoole. Both these works
interest me in him. Can any of your readers communicate any particulars of his history?

J.W.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

Admiration of the works of Holbein in Germany, as in this country, seems to increase with increasing
years. We have received from Messrs. Williams and Norgate a copy of a new edition of his Bible
Cuts lately published at Leipsic, under the title Hans Holbein's Altes Testament in funfzig
Holzschnitten getreu nach den Originalen copirt. Herausgegeben von Hugo Burkner, mit einer
Einleitung von D.F. Sotymann, to which we direct the attention of our readers, no less on account
of the beauty and fidelity with which these admirable specimens of Holbein's genius have been
copied, than of the interesting account of them prefixed by their new editor.

We beg to call the attention of such of our antiquaries as are interested in the history of
the Orkneys to a valuable contribution to our knowledge of them, lately published by our accomplished
friend, Professor Munch, of the Christiana, under the title of Symbolæ ad Historiam Antiquiorem
Rerum Norwegicarum, which contains, I. A short Chronicle of Norway; II. Genealogy of the Earls
of Orkney; III. Catalogue of the Kings of Norway--from a MS., for the most part hitherto inedited,
and which appears to have been written in Orkney about the middle of the fifteenth century.

While on the subject of foreign works of interest to English readers, we may mention two or
three others which we have been for some time intending to bring under the notice of those
who know how much light may be thrown upon our early language and literature by a study of
the contemporary literature of the Low Countries. The first is, Denkmaeler Niederdeutscher
Sprache und Literatur von Dr. Albert Hoefer, Erstes Banchen, which contains the highly curious
Low German Whitson play called Claws Bur. The next is a larger, more elaborately edited, and
from its introduction and extensive notes and various illustrations, a yet more interesting
work to English philologists. It is entitled Leven van Sinte Christina de Wonderbare, an old
Dutch poem, now first edited from a MS. of the fourteenth or fifteenth century, by Professor
Bormans.

We have received the following Catalogues:--Thomas Kerslake's (3. Park Street, Bristol) Books,
including valuable late Purchases; John Wheldon's {431} (4. Paternoster Row) Catalogue of valuable
Collection of Scentific Books; W.H. McKeay's (11. Vinegar Yard, Covent Garden) Catalogue of
a Portion of Stock.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

EPISTOLAE OBSCURORUM VIRORUM.

CHOIX D'ANECDOTES ORIENTALES. Vol. 11. Paris, 1775.

We venture to call attention to the communications from Bombay and Stockholm, which appear
in our present Number, as evidences of the extending circulation, and consequently, we trust,
of the increasing utility of NOTES AND QUERIES.

W.S. (Oxford) who inquires respecting Tempora Mutantur, is referred to our First Volume, pp.
215. 234. and 419.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTINUATION OF HUME AND SMOLLETT'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, TO THE PRESENT REIGN.

NEW ENLARGED EDITION OF HUGHES'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, IN 8vo.

In Seven Volumes, 8vo., price 3l. 13s. 6d. boards.

HISTORY OF ENGLAND, FROM THE ACCESSION OF GEORGE III., TO THE ACCESSION OF QUEEN VICTORIA,
BY THE REV. T.S. HUGHES, B.D., CANON OF PETERBOROUGH.

"To produce a Literary Work, justly deserving the name of National, is a rare contribution
to our Literature. This MR. HUGHES has done in a conscientious and able manner."--Literary
Gazette. Second Edition. Post 8to.

WERTHEIM & MACINTOSH, 24. Paternoster Row.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERRANZABULOE.--FIFTH EDITION.

In small 8vo. price 8s. (with Illustrations), the Fifth Edition of PERRANZABULOE, the LOST
CHURCH FOUND; or, the Church of England not a New Church, but ancient, Apostolical, and Independent,
and a Protesting Church Nine Hundred Years before the Reformaton. By the Rev. T. COLLINS TRELAWNY,
M.A., Rector of Timsbury, Somerset, and late Fellow of Balliol College.

The Volume contains an interesting Account of the Hstory and recent Recovery of the ancient
Church of Perranzabuloe, in Cornwall, after being buried in the Sand for Seven Hundred Years.

RIVINGTONS, St. Pauls Church Yard, and Waterloo Place.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANTI-POPERY.--A Large Examination taken at Lambeth, according to His Majesties Direction, point
by point, of M. GEO. BLACKWELL made Archpriest of England, by Pope Clement VIII. &c., 4to.,
half bound (rare), 1l. 1s. 1607.--History (the) of the Damnable Popish Plot, 8vo., 14s. 6d.,
1680.--Foxes and Fire-brandes, or, A Specimen of the Dangers and Harmony of Popery and Seperation,
4to., half bound, 10s. 6d., 1680.--Plot (the) in a Dream, or, The Discoverer in Masquerade,
18mo., plates, calf, neat, (rare), 1l. 1s.--Steel's Romish Ecclesiastical History, 12mo., calf,
neat, 5s., 1714.--Gabr. de Emilianne's Fraudes of the Romish Monks and Priests, 2 vols., 8vo.,
14s. 6d., 1691--William's (Gr. Bishop of Ossory), Looking Glass for Rebels, 4to., 16s. 6d.,
1643.--Histoire de la Papesse Jeanne, 2 vols., 12mo., plates, calf, neat, 16s., 6d., 1720.--Owen's
(L.) Jesuites Looking-glass, 4to., half bound, 14s. 6d., 1629.--A Piece of Ordanance invented
by a Jesuit for Cowards that fight by Whisperings, &c.; and Six other Curious Tracts in the
Vol., 4to., 1l. 1s.--Smith's (Jno.) Narrative of the late Horrid and Popish Plot, &c.; and
Nine other Curious Tracts in the Vol., folio, 1l. 11s. 6d.--Marvel's on the Growth of Popery,
and various other Tracts, folio, 16s. 6d., 1671-81.--Foxe's Acts and Monuments by BRIGHT, (black
letter), 4to., neat, 1l. 11s. 6d., 1589.--Carleton's (Bishop of Chichester) Thankfull Remembrancer
of God's Mercie, 4to., calf, neat, 1l. 5s., 1630.--With other Rare and Curious Books on Sale at

W.H. ELKINS, 47. Lombard Street, City.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 27th instant, fcp.

"Again, the range of thought is not high and difficult, but level and easy for the wayfaring
man to follow. It is quite evident that the author's mind was able and cultivated; yet as a
teacher to men of low estate, he makes no displays of eloquence or argument. There is no scolding,
no asperity of language, no irritation of manner about them. At the same time there is no over-strained
tenderness, nor affectation of endearment; but there is a considerate, serious concern, about
the peculiar sins and temptations of the people committed to his charge, and a hearty desire
and determined effort for their salvation."--Theologian.

"Simple, intelligible, and affectionate."--Church and State Gazette.

"Very stirring and practical."--Christian Remembrancer.

"The discourses are plain, interesting, and pre-eminently practical."--English Churchman.

"Plain, short, and affectionate discourses."--English Review.

GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.

       *       *       *       *       * {432}

BOOKS OF REFERENCE

NECESSARY TO CORRESPONDENTS AND READERS OF NOTES AND QUERIES.

WATT'S (R., M.D., and his Son) BIBLIOTHECA BRITANNICA, a General Index to the Literature of
Great Britain and Ireland, and of Foreign Nations, in Two Divisions, 1st, the Authors (Alphabetically
Arranged, with Biographical Notices, Full Chronological Lists of their Works, their Editions,
Sizes, &c.), 2nd, Subjects (and Anonymous Works, Arranged Alphabetically, with Constant References
to their Authors in the 1st Division), Glasg. and Edinb., 1819-24, 4to. 4 vols. scarce, cloth,
5l. 6s. (cost 11l. 11s.)

LOWNDES'S (W.T.) BIBLIOGRAPHER'S MANUAL of English Literature, 1834, 8vo. 4 vols. in 2, half
morocco, neat, 3l. 12s. (cost 4l. 11s.) Ditto, another copy, uncut, 3l. 12s.

NICHOLS'S (Jo.) LITERARY ANECDOTES of the 18th Century, with a very copious Index; and the
ILLUSTRATIONS of the Literary History of the 18th Century, 1812-48, numerous portraits, 8vo.,
17 bound in 16 thick vols., newly bound, calf extra, gilt, very beautiful set, with edges uncut,
13l. 13s.

MORERI'S (Louis) GREAT HISTORICAL DICTIONARY of the Gods and Heroes, the Lives of the Patriarchs,
Emperors, Princes, Popes, Saints, Fathers, Cardinals, Heresiarchs, the History of Sects, Councils,
General and Particular Authors, Orders, Genealogies of Families, &c., (in French), Paris, 1752,
best edition, folio, 10 vols. calf, gilt, 4l. 14s.

NARES'S (Rob.) GLOSSARY of Words, Phrases, Names, Customs, Proverbs, &c., in the Works of English
Authors, particularly Shakspeare and his Contemporaries, 1822, 4to., very scarce, handsomely
bound in russia, gilt, gilt edges, 2l. 18s.

TODD'S JOHNSON'S DICTIONARY, 1818, portrait, 4to. 4 vols. half cloth, 3l. 12s. (pub. at 11l. 11s.)

Bp. TANNER'S NOTITIA MONASTICA, an Account of all the Abbies, Priories, and Houses of Friers
formerly in England and Wales, with many Additions by NASMITH, Camb. 1787, port. and large
additional portrait and two plates inserted, fol. best edition, half russia, uncut, 6l. 16s.

CHALMERS'S (Alex.) GENERAL BIOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY, 1812-17, 8vo. 32 vols. half russia very
neat, 6l. 15s.

GRAFF'S (Dr. E.G.) ALTHOCHDEUTSCHER SPRACHSCHATZ oder Wörterbuch der Althochdeutschen Sprache,
mit völlstand. Alphabetisch. Index von H.F. MASSMANN, Berlin, 1834-46, 4to. 7 vols. half calf,
very neat, 4l. 12s. (cost 10l 10s)

LYE (Edv.) DICTIONARIUM SAXONICO et Gothico-Latinum, accedunt Fragmenta Vers. Ulphilanæ, Chartæ,
Sermo, &c., Anglo-Saxonice, 1772, folio, 2 vols. with MS. Additions and Notes in the autograph
of the Rev. T.D. FOSBROKE, the Antiquary, newly bound in half calf, gilt, elegant, uncut, 3l. 8s.

DUCANGE ET CARPENTARII GLOSSARIUM Manuale ad Scriptores Mediæ et Infimæ Latinitatis, in Compendium
redactum, multisque Verbis auctum, Halæ, 1772-87, 8vo, 6 vols. half calf, very neat, 3l. 3s.

ROBSON'S (Thos.) BRITISH HERALD, or Cabinet of ARMORIAL BEARINGS of the Nobility and Gentry
of Great Britain and Ireland, &c., 1830, with a volume of plates, 4to, 3 vols. half calf, gilt,
2l. 18s. (cost 11l.)

TIRABOSCHI (Girol.) STORIA DELLA LITERATURA ITALIANA, Roma, 1782-85, (best edition, with the
notes of P. MAMACHI,) large 4to. 12 vols. vellum, gilt, neat, fine set, 3l. 10s.

BAYLE (P.) DICTIONNAIRE Historique et Critique, nouv. edn., augmentée de Notes de CHAUPEPIÉ,
JOLY, LA MONNOIE, L.J. LECLERC, LE DU CHAT, PROSPER MARCHAND, &c., &c., Paris, 1820-24, 8vo.
16 thick and full printed volumes, half calf, neat, 3l. 18s.

FACCIOLATI'S LATIN LEXICON, by BAILEY, 1826, large 4to. 2 vols. handsomely bound, calf extra,
gilt, 5l. 5s.

RICHARDSON'S (Charles, LL.D.) NEW DICTIONARY of the ENGLISH LANGUAGE, combining Explanation
with Etymology; Pickering, 1844, 4to. 2 vols. very handsomely bound, russia extra, gilt, gilt
edges, a truly beautiful book, 4l. 4s.

PUGIN'S (A.W.) GLOSSARY OF ECCLESIASTICAL ORNAMENT AND COSTUME, with Extracts from DURANDUS,
GEORGIUS, BONA, CATALANI, GERBERT, MARTENE, MOLANUS, THIERS, MABILLON, DUCANGE, &c., translated
by the Rev. BERNARD SMITH, of Oscott, 1844, 70 Illuminations, sumptuously printed in gold and
colours, and other Engravings, royal 4to. half morocco, gilt, elegant, 4l. 18s.

COLLINS'S PEERAGE OF ENGLAND, augmented and continued by Sir E. BRYDGES, 1812, 8vo. 9 vols.
russia, marble edges, by Lewis, 3l. 18s.

RETROSPECTIVE REVIEW, complete, 1820-28, 8vo. 16 vols. half green morocco, very neat, 4l. 4s.
Ditto in parts, uncut, 3l. 8s.

BALDINUCCI (Fil.) OPERE (History of Engraving in Copper and Wood, &c., &c.), Milano, 1808-12,
port. 8vo. 14 thick vols. half calf, 1l. 12s.

DIBDIN'S (T.F.) TYPOGRAPHICAL ANTIQUITIES, or the History of Printing in England, Scotland,
and Ireland, comprehending a History of English Literature and the Progress of Engraving, 1810-19,
portraits and numerous fac-similes of ancient wood engraving, the types used by the various
early printers, &c., &c., royal 4to. 4 vols. boards, uncut, 4l. 8s. (cost 14l. 14s.)

ROYAL ACADEMY.--A Collection of all the Catalogues of the Exhibitions of the Royal Academy
from the 1st, 1769, to the 63rd, 1831, very scarce, 4to. 3 vols. half cloth, neat, uncut, 4l. 18s.

Card. BARONII (Cæs.) ANNALES ECLLESIASTICÆ, Antv. 1610, &c. port., 12 vols. old oaken binding,
stamped calf, old gilt, neat--BZOVII (Abra.) ANNALES ECCLESIASTICÆ post Baronium ad 1572, accessit
Tomus Posthumus et Ultimus, Col.-Agripp, Et Romae, 1621-72, 9 vols. old oaken binding, stamped
calf, neat,--together, 21 vols., a fine set, 14l. 14s.

To be Bought of THOMAS KERSLAKE, at No. 3 PARK STREET, BRISTOL, at the Net Prices annexed to
each lot.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUST PUBLISHED, A CATALOGUE OF VALUABLE BOOKS,

Containing selections from the Libraries at Conishead Priory, Lancashire; Sir Geo. Goold, Old
Court, Co. Cork; Coleby Hall, Lincolnshire; Prof. Elrington, T.C., Dublin; G.H. Ward, Esq.,
Northwood Park, Isle of Wight; J.B. Swete, Esq., Oxton House, Devon; and other late Purchases.
Franked by a single stamp. 1850.

