62. [Application of provisions referring to Lieutenant Governor.] The Provisions of this Act
referring to the Lieutenant Governor extend and apply to the Lieutenant Governor for the Time
being of each Province or other the Chief Executive Officer or Administrator for the Time being
carrying on the Government of the Province, by whatever Title he is designated.

63. [Appointment of Executive Officers for Ontario and Quebec.] The Executive Council of Ontario
and of Quebec shall be composed of such Persons as the Lieutenant Governor from Time to Time
thinks fit, and in the first instance of the following Officers, namely,--the Attorney General,
the Secretary and Registrar of the Province, the Treasurer of the Province, the Commissioner
of Crown Lands, and the Commissioner of Agriculture and Public Works, with in Quebec, the Speaker
of the Legislative Council and the Solicitor General.

64. [Executive Government of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.] The Constitution of the Executive
Authority in each of the Provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick shall, subject to the Provisions
of this Act, continue as it exists at the Union until altered under the Authority of this Act.

65.

66. [Application of provisions referring to Lieutenant Governor in Council.] The Provisions
of this Act referring to the Lieutenant Governor in Council shall be construed as referring
to the Lieutenant Governor of the Province acting by and with the Advice of the Executive Council
thereof.

67. [Administration in Absence, &c. of Lieutenant Governor.] The Governor General in Council
may from Time to Time appoint an Administrator to execute the Office and Functions of Lieutenant
Governor during his Absence, Illness, or other Inability.

68. [Seats of Provincial Governments.] Unless and until the Executive Government of any Province
otherwise directs with respect to that Province, the Seats of Government of the Provinces shall
be as follows, namely,--of Ontario, the City of Toronto; of Quebec, the City of Quebec; of
Nova Scotia, the City of Halifax; and of New Brunswick, the City of Fredericton.

Legislative Power.

1.--ONTARIO.

69. [Legislature for Ontario.] There shall be a Legislature for Ontario consisting of the Lieutenant
Governor and of One House, styled the Legislative Assembly of Ontario.

70. [Electoral districts.] The Legislative Assembly of Ontario shall be composed of Eighty-two
Members, to be elected to represent the Eighty-two Electoral Districts set forth in the First
Schedule to this Act.

2.--QUEBEC.

71. [Legislature for Quebec.] There shall be a Legislature for Quebec consisting of the Lieutenant
Governor and of Two Houses, styled the Legislative Council of Quebec and the Legislative Assembly
of Quebec.

72. [Constitution of Legislative Council.] The Legislative Council of Quebec shall be composed
of Twenty-four Members, to be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in the Queen's Name, by
Instrument under the Great Seal of Quebec, one being appointed to represent each of the Twenty-four
Electoral Divisions of Lower Canada in this Act referred to, and each holding Office for the
Term of his Life, unless the Legislature of Quebec otherwise provides under the Provisions
of this Act.

73. [Qualification of Legislative Councillors.] The Qualifications of the Legislative Councillors
of Quebec shall be the same as those of the Senators for Quebec.

74. [Resignation, Disqualification, &c.] The Place of a Legislative Councillor of Quebec shall
become vacant in the Cases, mutatis mutandis, in which the Place of Senator becomes vacant.

75. [Vacancies.] When a Vacancy happens in the Legislative Council of Quebec by Resignation,
Death, or otherwise, the Lieutenant Governor, in the Queen's Name, by Instrument under the
Great Seal of Quebec, shall appoint a fit and qualified Person to fill the Vacancy.

76. [Questions as to Vacancies, &c.] If any Question arises respecting the Qualification of
a Legislative Councillor of Quebec, or a Vacancy in the Legislative Council of Quebec, the
same shall be heard and determined by the Legislative Council.

77. [Speaker of Legislative Council.] The Lieutenant Governor may from Time to Time, by Instrument
under the Great Seal of Quebec, appoint a Member of the Legislative Council of Quebec to be
Speaker thereof, and may remove him and appoint another in his Stead.

78. [Quorum of Legislative Council.] Until the Legislature of Quebec otherwise provides, the
Presence of at least Ten Members of the Legislative Council, including the Speaker, shall be
necessary to constitute a Meeting for the Exercise of its Powers.

79.

80. [Constitution of Legislative Assembly of Quebec.] The Legislative Assembly of Quebec shall
be composed of Sixty-five Members, to be elected to represent the Sixty-five Electoral Divisions
or Districts of Lower Canada in this Act referred to, subject to Alteration thereof by the
Legislature of Quebec: Provided that it shall not be lawful to present to the Lieutenant Governor
of Quebec for Assent any Bill for altering the Limits of any of the Electoral Divisions or
Districts mentioned in the Second Schedule to this Act, unless the Second and Third Readings
of such Bill have been passed in the Legislative Assembly with the Concurrence of the Majority
of the Members representing all those Electoral Divisions or Districts, and the Assent shall
not be given to such Bill unless an Address has been presented by the Legislative Assembly
to the Lieutenant Governor stating that it has been so passed.

3.--ONTARIO AND QUEBEC.

81. [First Session of Legislatures.] The Legislatures of Ontario and Quebec respectively shall
be called together not later than Six Months after the Union.

82. [Summoning of Legislative Assemblies.] The Lieutenant Governor of Ontario and of Quebec
shall from Time to Time, in the Queen's Name, by Instrument under the Great Seal of the Province,
summon and call together the Legislative Assembly of the Province.

83.

84.

85. [Duration of Legislative Assemblies.] Every Legislative Assembly of Ontario and every Legislative
Assembly of Quebec shall continue for Four Years from the Day of the Return of the Writs for
choosing the same (subject nevertheless to either the Legislative Assembly of Ontario or the
Legislative Assembly of Quebec being sooner dissolved by the Lieutenant Governor of the Province),
and no longer.

86. [Yearly Session of Legislature.] There shall be a session of the Legislature of Ontario
and of that of Quebec once at least in every Year, so that Twelve Months shall not intervene
between the last Sitting of the Legislature in each Province in one Session and its first Sitting
in the next Session.

87. [Speaker, Quorum, &c.] The following Provisions of this Act respecting the House of Commons
of Canada shall extend and apply to the Legislative Assemblies of Ontario and Quebec, that
is to say,--the Provisions relating to the Election of a Speaker originally and on Vacancies,
the Duties of the Speaker, the Absence of the Speaker, the Quorum, and the Mode of voting,
as if those Provisions were here re-enacted and made applicable in Terms to each such Legislative
Assembly.

4.--NOVA SCOTIA AND NEW BRUNSWICK.

88.

5.--ONTARIO, QUEBEC AND NOVA SCOTIA.

89. [First Elections.] Each of the Lieutenant Governors of Ontario, Quebec and Nova Scotia
shall cause Writs to be issued for the First Election of Members of the Legislative Assembly
thereof in such Form and by such Person as he thinks fit, and at such Time and addressed to
such Returning Officer as the Governor General directs, and so that the First Election of Member
of Assembly for any Electoral District or any Subdivision thereof shall be held at the same
Time and at the same Places as the Election for a Member to serve in the House of Commons of
Canada for that Electoral District.

6.--THE FOUR PROVINCES.

90. [Application to Legislatures of Provisions respecting Money Votes, &c.] The following Provisions
of this Act respecting the Parliament of Canada, namely,--the Provisions relating to Appropriation
and Tax Bills, the Recommendation of Money Votes, the Assent to Bills, the Disallowance of
Acts, and the Signification of Pleasure on Bills reserved,--shall extend and apply to the Legislatures
of the several Provinces as if those Provisions were here re-enacted and made applicable in
Terms to the respective Provinces and the Legislatures thereof, with the Substitution of the
Lieutenant Governor of the Province for the Governor General, of the Governor General for the
Queen and for a Secretary of State, of One Year for Two Years, and of the Province for Canada.

    VI.--DISTRIBUTION OF LEGISLATIVE POWERS.

Powers of the Parliament.

91. The Public Debt and Property.
   2. The Regulation of Trade and Commerce.
   3. The raising of Money by any Mode or System of Taxation.
   4. The borrowing of Money on the Public Credit.
   5. Postal Service.
   6. The Census and Statistics.
   7. Militia, Military and Naval Service, and Defence.
   8. The fixing of and providing for the Salaries and Allowances of
      Civil and other Officers of the Government of Canada.
   9. Beacons, Buoys, Lighthouses, and Sable Island.
  10. Navigation and Shipping.
  11. Quarantine and the Establishment and Maintenance of Marine
      Hospitals.
  12. Sea Coast and Inland Fisheries.
  13. Ferries between a Province and any British or Foreign Country or
      between Two Provinces.
  14. Currency and Coinage.
  15. Banking, Incorporation of Banks, and the Issue of Paper Money.
  16. Savings Banks.
  17. Weights and Measures.
  18. Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes.
  19. Interest.
  20. Legal Tender.
  21. Bankruptcy and Insolvency.
  22. Patents of Invention and Discovery.
  23. Copyrights.
  24. Indians, and Lands reserved for the Indians.
  25. Naturalization and Aliens.
  26. Marriage and Divorce.
  27. The Criminal Law, except the Constitution of Courts of Criminal
      Jurisdiction, but including the Procedure in Criminal Matters.
  28. The Establishment, Maintenance, and Management of Penitentiaries.
  29. Such Classes of Subjects as are expressly excepted in the
      Enumeration of the Classes of Subjects by this Act assigned
      exclusively to the Legislatures of the Provinces.

Exclusive Powers of Provincial Legislatures.

92. [Subjects of exclusive Provincial Legislation.] In each Province the Legislature may exclusively
make Laws in relation to Matters coming within the Classes of Subjects next hereinafter enumerated,
that is to say,--

   1. The Amendment from Time to Time, notwithstanding anything in this
      Act, of the Constitution of the Province, except as regards the
      Office of Lieutenant Governor.
   2. Direct Taxation within the Province in order to the raising of
      a Revenue for Provincial Purposes.
   3. The borrowing of Money on the sole Credit of the Province.
   4. The Establishment and Tenure of Provincial Offices and the
      Appointment and Payment of Provincial Officers.
   5. The Management and Sale of the Public Lands belonging to the
      Province and of the Timber and Wood thereon.
   6. The Establishment, Maintenance, and Management of Public and
      Reformatory Prisons in and for the Province.
   7. The Establishment, Maintenance, and Management of Hospitals,
      Asylums, Charities, and Eleemosynary Institutions in and for
      the Province, other than Marine Hospitals.
   8. Municipal Institutions in the Province.
   9. Shop, Saloon, Tavern, Auctioneer, and other Licences in order to
      the raising of a Revenue for Provincial, Local, or Municipal
      Purposes.
  10. Local Works and Undertakings other than such as are of the
      following Classes,--
        a. Lines of Steam or other Ships, Railways, Canals, Telegraphs,
           and other Works and Undertakings connecting the Province with
           any other or others of the Provinces, or extending beyond the
           Limits of the Province:
        b. Lines of Steam Ships between the Province and any British
           or Foreign Country:
        c. Such Works as, although wholly situate within the Province,
           are before or after their Execution declared by the
           Parliament of Canada to be for the general Advantage of
           Canada or for the Advantage of Two or more of the Provinces.
  11. The Incorporation of Companies with Provincial Objects.
  12. The Solemnization of Marriage in the Province.
  13. Property and Civil Rights in the Province.
  14.
  15. The Imposition of Punishment by Fine, Penalty, or Imprisonment for
      enforcing any Law of the Province made in relation to any Matter
      coming within any of the Classes of Subjects enumerated in this
      Section.
  16. Generally all Matters of a merely local or private Nature in the
      Province.

Education.

93.

Uniformity of Laws in Ontario, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick.

94. [Legislation for Uniformity of Laws in three Provinces.] Notwithstanding anything in this
Act, the Parliament of Canada may make Provision for the Uniformity of all or any of the Laws
relative to Property and Civil Rights in Ontario, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick, and of the
Procedure of all or any of the Courts in those Three Provinces, and from and after the passing
of any Act in that Behalf the Power of the Parliament of Canada to make Laws in relation to
any Matter comprised in any such Act shall, notwithstanding anything in this Act, be unrestricted;
but any Act of the Parliament of Canada making Provision for such Uniformity shall not have
effect in any Province unless and until it is adopted and enacted as Law by the Legislature
thereof.

Agriculture and Immigration.

95. [Concurrent Powers of Legislation respecting Agriculture, &c.] In each Province the Legislature
may make Laws in relation to Agriculture in the Province, and to Immigration into the Province;
and it is hereby declared that the Parliament of Canada may from Time to Time make Laws in
relation to Agriculture in all or any of the Provinces, and to Immigration into all or any
of the Provinces; and any Law of the Legislature of a Province relative to Agriculture or to
Immigration shall have effect in and for the Province as long and as far only as it is not
repugnant to any Act of the Parliament of Canada.

    VII.--JUDICATURE.

96. [Appointment of Judges.] The Governor General shall appoint the Judges of the Superior,
District, and County Courts in each Province, except those of the Courts of Probate in Nova
Scotia and New Brunswick.

97.

98. [Selection of Judges in Quebec.] The Judges of the Courts of Quebec shall be selected from
the Bar of that Province.

99. [Tenure of Office of Judges of Superior Courts.] The Judges of the Superior Courts shall
hold office during good Behaviour, but shall be removable by the Governor General on Address
of the Senate and House of Commons.

100. [Salaries, &c., of Judges.] The Salaries, Allowances, and Pensions of the Judges of the
Superior, District, and County Courts (except the Courts of Probate in Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick), and of the Admiralty Courts in Cases where the Judges thereof are for the Time
being paid by Salary, shall be fixed and provided by the Parliament of Canada.

