The next afternoon a westerly wind brought us again in with the land; and in the evening we
tacked in six fathoms, three miles and a half to the northward of Thevenard Island, which we
found to be connected with a reef we discovered in the morning, lying eleven miles North by
East from it; inside this reef the water looked deep and smooth. The island is a narrow strip
lying east and west, about three miles; the west end we made in latitude 21 degrees 26 minutes
South and longitude 114 degrees 54 minutes East. From the number of islands I saw to the south
of Thevenard, I think the reef continues to Maison Island, near the North-west Cape. The outer
one, seen from the Beagle, is in latitude 21 degrees 31 minutes South and longitude 114 degrees
42 minutes East. I myself believe the whole extent from Maison to Barrow's Island is occupied
by islets and reefs, probably all connected. We know, in fact, from Captain King, that a reef
extends sixteen miles off the south end of Barrow's Island.

RESULT OF SOUNDINGS.

Seventeen miles in a North-West by North direction from Thevenard Island we had 65 fathoms,
fine white sand, having deepened gradually from six fathoms three miles north of it. In June
of this year, working to the North-East we had 68 fathoms three miles West by South of that
position, and 111 fathoms six miles North-West of it; beyond this no bottom was found with
120 and 150 fathoms.*

(*Footnote. The following table is the result of other outer soundings obtained in the Beagle,
showing how far the bank of soundings extends off the Western coast of Australia.

COLUMN 1: LATITUDE SOUTH (DEGREES, MINUTES). COLUMN 2: DEPTH IN FATHOMS. COLUMN 3: QUALITY
OF BOTTOM. COLUMN 4: DISTANCE FROM NEAREST LAND.

32 02 : 70 : Fine white sand and rock : Rottnest or Garden Island 20 miles. 30 55 : 86 : Fine
grey sand : Main abreast 34 miles. 29 38 : 127 : Fine grey sand : Main abreast 39 miles. 26
42 : 187 : Fine grey sand : South point of Shark's Bay 37 miles. 21 14 : 111 : Fine white sand
: Thevenard Island 25 miles. 20 00 : 150 : Fine white sand : Tremouille Island 35 miles.

It would thus appear that a ship in less than 110 fathoms off the west shore of the continent
would be within forty miles of the land; and nearly the same distance from the islands fronting
it, when in about 200 fathoms between the latitudes of 19 degrees 50 minutes South and 20 degrees
10 minutes South. The bank of soundings extends further off the North-west coast, as eighty-five
miles north of Depuch Island we had only 75 fathoms, fine white sand. In a south direction
from that position the water shoaled rapidly to 40 fathoms in fifteen miles; but very gradually
afterwards to 15 fathoms in fifty miles. This slope of the bank was determined by several boards
in working to the westward.)

RETURN TO SWAN RIVER.

The glimpse we got of the string of islands lying between Barrow's Island and the North-west
Cape, was quite unexpected, as the next land we had intended seeing was Swan River. After rounding
the North-west Cape, we had the usual southerly winds, but a strong breeze from the north-west
overtook us in latitude 30 degrees 40 minutes South and longitude 112 degrees 25 minutes East,
and shortened the passage, bringing us on the 27th to an anchorage under the east end of Rottnest
Island, where we found a current sweeping round to the southward, at the rate of nearly a knot
an hour. There had not been any previously felt; but in latitude 30 degrees South and longitude
110 degrees East, two days before the north-wester, it set two knots to the northward; another
instance of how entirely the currents are governed by the winds off this coast.

NATIVE TALENT.

Our Swan River native had not obtained so much information of his wild countrymen to the northward
as Miago. Still he had made the most of what he saw; and his visit to Timor crowned all. The
facility and rapidity with which he could make a song about anyone whom he might choose as
the subject of his poetical fancy, was very amusing; he must have equalled many of the Italian
improvisatori. He had also got a very good idea of where the ship had been since leaving Swan
River, in his head. The drawings of his countrymen on Depuch Island had greatly hurt his vanity,
whilst they excited his emulation; and always afterwards, whenever he could get hold of paper
or pencil, he was trying to excel them, which, from the improvement he made, I have no doubt
he would have shortly done.

During the time he and his townsman Miago were with us, the following vocabulary was made;
the words from Port Essington have been furnished by Mr. Earl.

COLUMN 1: ENGLISH. COLUMN 2: PORT ESSINGTON. COLUMN 3: SWAN RIVER.

Crow : - : Woordang. Emu : Angorok : Wadye. Eggs : Olajuk : Noorago. Shags : - : Mere. Kangaroo
: Abbugi : Yewart. Female Kangaroo : - : Waroo. Wallaby: - : Wallyo. Bandicoot or rat : - :
Condee. Very small kangaroo, larger than a wallaby : - : Goora. Ringtail possum : - : Gnoorah.
Large possum : - : Goomal. --tailed possum : - : Mooroo. Native dog : Nukakoin : Dudah. The
tail : - : Diar. Black swan : - : Coolecha. Duck : Cormoro : Oonanah. Mountain duck : - : Kooracha.
Wombat : - : Koolemah. Magpie : - : Gooraba. Brown Chatterer : - : Telaho Fishhawk : - : Undoorah.
Eagle : - : Mulurah. Pigeon : - : Woodah. Quail : Windalo : Barrabberry. Tortoise : - : Booye,
or Boorje. Mullett : - : Kalkurrie. Cobler : - : Corallia. Small blue bird : - : Deldillia.
Snake : Ambeetj : Waggile. Sun : Muree : Murgah. Moon : Allee : Magee. Stars : Argadba : Nungarah.
Clouds : - : Marah. Wind : Mailo : Curajahl. A bird : Aluk-aluk : Walta. Sand : Onak : Coo-yah.
Head : Wokbok : Cuttah. Eyes : Ira : Mael. Nose : Anjinmul : Moolyah. Ears : Alaijar : Tungah.
Mouth : Angaikbirig : Dah. Chin : - : Nungah. Face : Anmarura : Yoodah. Hair : Angbal : Cutap.
Eyebrows : - : Mingart. Eyelashes : - : Cunbah. Teeth : Anjigi : Nalgo. Tongue : - : Dalang.
Neck : - : Wardo. Throat : - : Daragert. Shoulders : - : Wundardah. Arms : - : Wango. Armpit
: - : Nulyar. Collar bone : - : Chelee wundardah. Arm, upper : - : Maraga. Arm, lower : - :
Aye yung. Wrist : - : Mardalliah. Thumb : Gamar : Marang-unga. First finger : - : Mara-mamal.
Second finger : - : Mara-cudejip. Third finger : - : Mara-cudejip. Little finger : - : Mara-colun.
Nails : - : Bere. Back : - : Goon goh. Loins : - : Moondo. Hips : - : Corlge. Buttocks : -
: Mooro. Hip joint : - : -. Thigh : - : Dahwool. Knee : - : Bonnet. Leg : Adjirt-adjirt : Mattah.
Hams : - : Yallee. Ankle : - : Bilgah Heel : - : Geenang hooran. Foot : Ingalmulbil : Geenang
coongoh. Instep : - : Geenang guerack. Toes : Rujut-bullal : Chenang ungah. Breast : - : Undoo.
Belly : Angonidjark : Cabollo. Breast (woman) : - : Bebe. Navel : - : Bilye. Woman : Wari-comomo
: Babelyah. Man : Iwala : Medah.

...

To run, stoop, hide, crouch, when about to rain : Kiddi kit mya warra. To go a long distance
: Maran dugon bordeneuk. To cut up an animal of any kind for roasting : Dedayah killa, kuirderkan,
ki ti kit. To cover up, to keep warm : Borga koorejalah kunah. For roasting : Ki ti kit. To
cut up : Kurerkna. Give me some water : Yahago cabe. I'm very thirsty : Gangah. To carry the
pickaninee : Colanganee wandung. Here carry the pickaninee (strong expression) : Colang maranga
barang wandung. Give me some money : Anyah (or ana) yunagh, uddah. No money, go away : Neundoh
barang gerangah. You have money : Anyah yungagah uddah. I go to sleep : Unyah begang undagah.
To sneeze : Neyetta. A tree : Boono. Vegetation generally : Jibbah. Grass : Bobo. Long grass
: Bobo wal-yur-deg.

NAMES OF SNAKES OF SWAN RIVER.

Waggile. Noo no. Si Dubat. Wang go. Bije modo. Cocongorun. Beara. Poolyar. Uur-nah. Iguana.
Aunderah.

LIZARDS OF ABROLHOS, AS WELL AS SWAN RIVER.

Uundung. Jinerarah. Jeregarah.

...

When the weather became fine, we ran over to Gage Road.

ERECT BEACONS AT ROTTNEST.

October 11.

We again visited Rottnest in the ship (Lieutenant Roe the Surveyor-General, accompanying us)
for the purpose of erecting beacons on the rocks lying off the points of Thomson's Bay, as
marks for leading clear to the eastward of the Champion Rock. We were happy to have an opportunity
of rendering this important service to the colonists, who acknowledged it in a very handsome
manner.

Another object in crossing over to Rottnest was to avoid a north-west breeze which came on
the next day; on the 15th we again returned to Gage Road.

ANECDOTES OF A WILD DOG.

Whilst we were at Swan River this time, a wish I had long entertained of procuring a pup of
the wild breed of dogs* of the country, was gratified. It was a bitch, and left in the hollow
of a tree by her mother who had just escaped. Knowing that they hunt kangaroos in packs, and
have excellent noses, I was anxious to try if something useful might not be made out of a cross
with the fox-hound; and with this view on my arrival in England, I gave her to my cousin, Mr.
G. Lort Phillips; but she died in a fit soon after coming into his possession. Whilst with
me she had two litters of pups by a pointer, three each time, the first at two years, and the
second after an interval of ten months. At these times she was particularly savage, and would
take the opportunity of paying off any old grudge she might have against those who had ill-used
her--for she never forgot an injury--by stealing after them and snapping at their heels. She
was very much attached to her young; one day I took her on shore and she kept catching birds
to bring to them, supplying them, as an over-fond mother will do, with a superfluity of good
things.

(*Footnote. I am informed by Colonel Owen Phillips, 56th B.N.I., formerly Assistant-Resident
at Macassar, that he saw four wild dogs brought to Sir Stamford Raffles at Java, which bore
a very strong resemblance to the animals mentioned in the text.)

I was very much interested in this animal, and took a great deal of pains to tame her, though
I never fully succeeded. Her nose, as I have said, was excellent; and though quite mute she
could hunt very well, as I found by repeated trials when out rabbit shooting. She would never
leave a hole, working at it with her feet and teeth until she got at the inmate. These qualities
confirmed me in my opinion that a cross with the fox-hound would produce a good result. As
an illustration of her keenness of smell, I may mention that one day when we were lying in
the Tamar river, she winded some sheep on the bank, and was instantly overboard and after them,
swimming so rapidly that she had reached the land, and, though herself only the size of a large
dog-fox, had pulled down a fine ram before a party could get on shore to prevent her. When
they landed, instead of trying to make her escape, she slunk into the boat. This freak of hers
cost me five pounds.

PECULIARITIES OF THE WILD DOG.

In cold weather her coat was always best, and the brush on her tail most perfect. She was of
a light tan colour, with a little white on the tip of the tail, and a few black hairs sprinkled
in the brush; there was a little black also about her face. Her step was light and stealthy;
and in her eye meekness and cunning were curiously blended. Though very shy of man, when once
taken up in the arms she lay as quiet as a cat; but with all dogs she was very quarrelsome,
fighting savagely with a greyhound bitch I had on board, and several times nearly killing a
small dog. It was always difficult to catch her, as she would generally manage to escape either
between the legs or by springing over the shoulders, except when we were going on shore; then
she would allow herself very quietly to be put into the boat; but on our return the difficulty
was how to get her off, and it became necessary to pounce upon her suddenly. She was never
heard to bark, the only noise she ever made being the dismal howl peculiar to her breed, and
this only when tied up, which consequently, for the sake of peace, was but of short duration,
and always had to be done with a chain, as she would instantly bite through a rope. Her mischievous
propensity was remarkable, as she often stole into the officers' cabin and pulled books down
from the shelves, tearing the backs off and then destroying the leaves. As an instance of her
sure-footedness and activity I may mention that I have seen her leap twice her own height from
the stem of the midship boat, in endeavouring to seize fowls or meat that was hung on the mainstay,
always alighting on the point she sprang from. At other times she would attempt to crawl up
it like a cat, in order to steal what was there. Her proneness to thieving was very great;
I have frequently seen her eating stolen things when she would refuse what was offered her;
it was never safe to take her near poultry.

GEOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.

Whilst in this locality I may take the opportunity of introducing a few notes on the geological
formation of the country in the neighbourhood of Swan River, furnished by Mr. Bynoe:

The most remarkable feature is the absence or scantiness of the secondary and transition rocks;
all the tertiary appears to be of the newest kind, and to lie in juxtaposition with the primary.
This character forms the sandy margin from the Darling Range, or chain of granite hills, nearly
2000 feet high to the sea, in the immediate vicinity of which the sand is bounded by a calcareous
form of limestone, and, where jutting into the sea and forming perpendicular or overhanging
cliffs, the faces are thrown into a beautiful kind of fretwork (See volume 1) of more compactness
than the surrounding mass. In most places about the neighbourhood of Fremantle, shells are
found of the existing species along the coast, firmly impacted in its substance, particularly
a large species of buccinum, as well as the strombus. This calcareous formation has been traced
as far north as Shark's Bay; it crosses over to the Abrolhos Group, there frequently lying
over a coral formation, and forming in many places cavities of a cylindrical figure, of some
few feet in depth. Beds of clays, varying in quality and colour, are to be met with on sandy
margins, containing particles of gypsum.

On the Darling Range is found a red cellular structure capping the granite, assuming all the
appearance of having been subjected to fire; it extends also in the low country about that
neighbourhood.

Slate of a primitive character is found on the Canning River. The mountain chain or Darling
Range runs nearly in the direction of north and south. On the eastern side of it, close to
the base, are several groups of isolated conical hills, from a half to one mile apart, extending
from the William River to the Tugee District, a distance of about one hundred and twenty miles,
bearing on their summits strong evidences of ignition. The country farther on to the eastward
falls into sandy plains, similar to those on the western side, and intersected by watercourses;
during the summer, pools remain, and at that time become remarkably salt. On the mountains,
as well as on the plains, scattered pebbles in patches are to be met with; they appear to contain
iron, being highly magnetic.

SAIL FROM SWAN RIVER.

From the very debilitated state of some of the crew, from dysenteric affections contracted
at Timor, we were not able to leave Swan River before the 25th of October. At noon on the 28th,
Cape Naturaliste bore South 80 degrees East three miles; according to our observations it was
in latitude 33 degrees 31 minutes 45 seconds South four miles further south than it is placed
in the charts, though in longitude (0 degrees 47 minutes 30 seconds West of Swan River) it
appeared pretty correct. Some reefs have been reported three or four miles off the north-east
side of it: but we could see nothing of them, and had a depth of 25 and 26 fathoms. We got
soundings of 23 and 25 fathoms in passing along a few miles from the coast towards Cape Leeuwin,
in the neighbourhood of which we looked in vain for a rock called the Rambler, that had been
supposed to be about twelve miles south-west of a remarkable white patch close to the northward
of the Cape, the locality of which it always serves to show. Twenty miles west of Cape Leeuwin
the depth was 47 fathoms.

Passing along the south coast we found the white-topped rocks near Cape Chatham to be in longitude
0 degrees 29 minutes 30 seconds East of Swan River. They are not only remarkable in themselves,
but like the Eclipse Islands, are admirably situated for showing a ship's position when in
with the coast.

PEAKED HILL.

We entered King George's Sound on November 2nd. I should here observe that Bald Head is connected
with the main by a low piece of land, in the centre of which stands a small peak; this gives
the head, from the offing to the southward, the appearance of an island. In the view annexed
the reader will perceive a representation of the conspicuous headland called Peaked Hill, with
its peculiar profile outline, lying about five miles south-west of Bald Head.

Proceeding up the Sound we anchored in Princess Royal Harbour, Mount Clarence bearing North-North-East,
and the south end of Michaelmas Island just open of Point Possession. The entrance to this
great basin is by a narrow channel in the north-east corner; a long spit extending off the
inner western entrance-point forms the chief impediment. Few vessels escape touching it; but
although the passage is thus contracted the Beagle was worked through both ways. Inside, there
is water sufficient for the largest ship in the navy; but only for a limited space, a short
distance within the entrance--merely a hollow scooped out towards the north-west corner of
the harbour.

ALBANY.

Here, just above a dazzling white sandy beach, a straggling village points out the township
of Albany. Mounts Clarence and Melville reared their bare granitic heads on either side, and
huge fantastically-shaped boulders were strewn over their slopes. The origin of this settlement
may not be generally known: it was first planned, in consequence of a report that the French
were about to establish themselves there; which turned out to be the truth, for they had actually
formed and abandoned a settlement before Major Lockyer arrived from Sydney, in 1825. The gang
of convicts he brought with him was withdrawn, when Albany became part of the government of
Western Australia.

Among the few improvements that had taken place since our visit in 1836, were a jetty and a
government storehouse. The latter was close to the spot where the observations were made, and
where I noticed some trappean dykes intersecting the granite in a North-North-West direction.
I observed the same circumstance at Simon's Bay, Cape of Good Hope.

I was sorry to see that the infant town of Albany had made so little progress, especially as
it possesses by far the finest harbour in Western Australia. There is no doubt that ultimately
its great natural advantages will be developed; but it is somewhat surprising that they have
not already been turned to better account. Though there is not a very great extent of good
land in the neighbourhood, there is amply sufficient to hold out encouragement to the settler;
especially when we consider that this is one of the most healthy portions of the continent,
that it is never visited by hot winds, and that the thermometer is rarely below 60 or above
85 degrees. This evenness of temperature at all times of the year is very remarkable, and renders
the spot particularly suitable for invalids, many persons coming even from Swan River to renovate
themselves. If our East Indians were aware of what a salubrious climate they might enjoy at
King George's Sound, they would soon be seen flocking thither to repair the constitutions they
have injured on the banks of the Ganges and the Indus.

Our object in visiting this place was to obtain a meridian distance; and between the observations
for rating the chronometers I availed myself of an offer of Lieutenant Warburton, commanding
the detachment of the 51st Regiment, doing duty there, to accompany him on a visit to the out-stations.
We were joined by a person from the settlement, who owned some kangaroo dogs, and by three
or four natives.

Leaving Albany, we reached the foot of a large clear piece of land called the Great Plain,
about fifteen miles distant, and a little off the Swan River road.

BURNING THE BUSH.

On our way we met a party of natives engaged in burning the bush, which they do in sections
every year. The dexterity with which they manage so proverbially a dangerous agent as fire
is indeed astonishing. Those to whom this duty is especially entrusted, and who guide or stop
the running flame, are armed with large green boughs, with which, if it moves in a wrong direction,
they beat it out. Their only object in these periodical conflagrations seems to be the destruction
of the various snakes, lizards, and small kangaroos, called wallaby, which with shouts and
yells they thus force from their covert, to be despatched by the spears or throwing-sticks
of the hunting division. The whole scene is a most animated one, and the eager savage, every
muscle in action and every faculty called forth, then appears to the utmost advantage, and
is indeed almost another being. I can conceive no finer subject for a picture than a party
of these swarthy beings engaged in kindling, moderating, and directing the destructive element,
which under their care seems almost to change its nature, acquiring, as it were, complete docility,
instead of the ungovernable fury we are accustomed to ascribe to it. Dashing through the thick
underwood, amidst volumes of smoke--their dark active limbs and excited features burnished
by the fierce glow of the fire--they present a spectacle which it rarely falls to our lot to
behold, and of which it is impossible to convey any adequate idea by words.

COURSE A KANGAROO.

After tethering out our horses and making our breakwind for the night, we went out in the evening
to look for a kangaroo. I had never as yet seen one put fairly at his speed on open ground
before a dog, but this evening I was fully gratified; for we soon found a couple lying out
on our side of the plain, and by crawling up through the wood we managed to slip the dogs about
five hundred yards from them. Away they went, leaving a stream of dust in their wake. Their
habitual curving direction soon gave us a broadside view; and a splendid course it was. They
ran horizontally, no leap or hop being perceptible. At first the dogs closed rapidly, but for
some time afterwards no change in their relative positions took place, each doing his best.
The kangaroos held their own well, until they had reached nearly the other side of the plain,
a distance of about two miles, when the dogs began gradually to draw on them, and at length,
after a turn or two, the smaller was run into just before entering the wood. It was a fine
young buck, weighing about 60 pounds, and made a capital supper for our party. The natives
cooked the tail for us in their own way, roasting it with the hair on, the best mode of dressing
it, except in soup.

Next morning we found that our sable friends had eaten so much of the kangaroo that there was
great difficulty in getting them to move. However, they at length consented to accompany us,
and we proceeded five or six miles further on the Swan River road, to a place where a party
of soldiers were stationed. Here the temptation of a fresh supply of kangaroo proved irresistible,
and with the exception of one, who was Lieutenant Warburton's servant, the natives all left
us to resume the pleasant occupation of eating. The gastronomic feats performed by these persons
are really surprising; and in the work recently published by Mr. Eyre the reader will find
some curious details on the subject.

We now took a westerly direction, for a tract of good country lying about thirty-five miles
from the Sound, a little to the westward of the road to Swan River.

PITFALLS FOR KANGAROOS.

On our way we crossed several short trenches, cut by the natives for pitfalling kangaroos,
which were here very numerous. They were dug across the runs of the animal, and covered with
a slight layer of brush or grass, and were very narrow at the bottom, so that the prey could
get no footing to bound out.

HERDS OF KANGAROOS.

I have never, at any other place, seen similar contrivances resorted to by the aborigines;
in this neighbourhood they have probably been suggested by the great abundance in which the
kangaroo is found. I am certain there could scarcely have been less than a hundred in a herd.
It was curious to observe them hopping along over the grass or underneath the trees, with the
large males bringing up the rear of a certain number of does. We had several very beautiful
courses, but the dogs being footsore were beaten on all occasions.

I was very much pleased with this portion of the country: it quite resembles the park-like
features of Port Phillip. We heard the kangaroos thumping the ground all night, as they hopped
along round our bivouac, the heavier fall of the male being plainly distinguishable. It was
now determined to shape a southward course for Ungerup, one of Lady Spencer's farms on the
Hay River; and after laying down our position by a sort of dead reckoning I had kept to find
the course, we started.

Soon after moving off, Lieutenant Warburton discovered that he had forgotten to leave some
message or other at the station, and determined on sending back his native servant. But as
he was out of the limits of his own tribe, it required some persuasion to induce him to go;
and he was only prevailed on to do so by being allowed to carry his master's gun for protection.

Part of our road lay through a thick mahogany scrub; and as the horse I rode was a young unbroken
one from the Cape, I might perhaps with less trouble have tried to take an elephant straight
with a snaffle bit in his mouth. The sameness of the trees in this part being very great it
is difficult to hold a direct course; and if, after having chosen one to steer by, my attention
happened to be taken off by a kangaroo starting up, I was always obliged to refer to the compass.

We made the Hay a mile or two above Ungerup; it is there a small tortuous rivulet, with rich
grassy banks, overhung by wide shady trees. The valley is narrow, sloping gently up on either
side. If I had been pleased with the good piece of land just left, I was still more so with
this; the mould was rich and fine: I did not believe there was land of such quality near the Sound.

LADY SPENCER'S FARMS.

In passing another of Lady Spencer's farms, seven miles farther down the same river, we were
glad to pocket a large piece of damper for our evening meal, which we made at our old bivouac
near the Great Plain, where we found the native under the break-wind, which he had covered
with another bough or two. Next evening we got into Albany, and on the morning of the 15th
the Beagle was running out of King George's Sound.

It was resolved that we should touch at South Australia, to secure a good meridian distance
by short stages between Swan River and Sydney. Accordingly, on the morning of the 27th, we
entered Investigator Strait, having been detained by strong easterly winds about a hundred
and fifty miles to the westward of Kangaroo Island. Whilst contending with them we discovered
a small high rocky island, the summit of which we found to be in latitude 34 degrees 49 minutes
South and in longitude 19 degrees 4 minutes East of Swan River; it bore South 8 degrees East
nine miles from the high peak on Greenly's Island. The name of the Beagle was bestowed upon it.

At noon, as we entered the Strait, we committed to the deep the body of Nicholas Lewis, seaman,
who died of sickness contracted at Timor.

NEPTUNE ISLES.

We kept close to the Neptune Isles, a low rocky group, the southernmost of which we give the
position of; Captain Flinders, who passed too far to the northward, having not exactly determined
it: it lies in latitude 35 degrees 22 minutes 15 seconds South and longitude 20 degrees 22
minutes 15 seconds East of Swan River. These islands appear well adapted for a light-house.

There was a strong indraught of a knot an hour into Spencer's Gulf. Kangaroo Island has no
remarkable features; whilst Althorpe and Quoin islands are sufficiently striking to be recognized
by anyone who has once seen them.

On the morning of the 29th we anchored in Holdfast Road, in 4 1/2 fathoms, Mount Lofty,* a
slight excrescence on the highest part of the range of hills eastwards, bearing North 80 degrees
East; a flagstaff at a straggling village under it pointed out the township of Glenelg. At
the foot of this we made our observations, which place it in latitude 34 degrees 58 minutes
30 seconds South and longitude 12 degrees 41 minutes 15 seconds West of Sydney.

(*Footnote. This hill, bearing east, is a guide to Holdfast Road.)

Landing at Glenelg we proceeded towards Adelaide, which lay about six miles to the northward,
in the centre of a rich plain, stretching from the foot of Mount Lofty to the sea, and contracting
gradually to the southward, where beyond Glenelg it rises into downs, increasing in height
as they approach Cape Jervis, and ultimately blending with spurs thrown off from Mount Lofty
range. Adelaide itself is situated on the banks of the Torrens, a very insignificant stream,
or rather series of pools, in the dry season.

ADELAIDE.

I have spoken, in a former chapter, of my astonishment at first seeing Sydney; but certainly
the same feeling was roused in a still greater degree by the first appearance of Adelaide;
although I was prepared for something great by what I had heard of the multitudes that had
flocked thither from the mother country. In truth a noble city had in the course of four years
sprung, as if by magic, from the ground, wearing such an appearance of prosperity and wealth
that it seemed almost incredible it could have existed but for so short a time.

GOVERNOR GAWLER'S POLICY.

The fact is that this was mainly owing to the liberal expenditure of the governor, Colonel
Gawler, who saw the policy at the earliest possible opportunity of making adequate preparation
for the stream of population that was so rapidly flowing in. Every public building was erected
on a scale to suit the anticipated splendour of the colony, and in so substantial a manner,
that it will be long ere another outlay becomes necessary. That this was the best line of conduct
to adopt, most persons, on reflection, will acknowledge. In New Zealand, for example, much
of the disturbances that have arisen may be attributed to the fact of so many settlers arriving
before sufficient preparation had been made for their reception.

Much fault has been found with Colonel Gawler's military display, as it is called; in other
words, with his raising a corps of volunteers. But the necessity of this may be presumed from
the facts, that Sir Charles Napier, the conqueror of Scinde, as we learn from his own pen,
refused the government, because a military force was not to be sent with him; and that it has
been found advisable to place a body of troops at the disposal of Colonel Gawler's successor.

I paid a visit to the port, distant from the town about five miles, made easy by an excellent
macadamized road, carried, in some places, on a causeway over a swamp, and forming a great
and imperishable monument of the Governor's enterprising spirit. The port reminded me of one
of the quiet mangrove creeks on the North coast, except that it had only one bend, changing
from a northerly to a south-westerly direction, which at certain times of the day renders it
navigable, with a fair wind, each way. For instance, the seabreeze will take a vessel out through
the northerly part, and next morning she will have the land breeze to carry her the rest of
the distance; whilst, alternating, the same breeze serves to take ships in. The mouth of the
port is well marked with black and white buoys; and a light vessel is moored off the entrance,
with pilots in attendance; a red buoy is on the bar, where at high-water there is sometimes
15 feet, but the tides are very irregular, being much higher with south-west winds; the general
rise was about four feet.

MR. EYRE'S EXPEDITION.

We were very much pleased with the animated description we had of the departure of Mr. Eyre's
expedition to the north; but what gave us particular satisfaction was the evidence afforded
of how much the whole colony had the welfare of this enterprising little band at heart. I had
not before seen in Australia any place where the progress of discovery was so liberally forwarded,
as the readers will at once learn from Mr. Eyre's book. One cause of this we may discover in
the fact that the richness of the country immediately surrounding Adelaide made them eager
to ascertain its extent. Indeed until this was known they were necessarily unsettled, as few
liked to locate themselves permanently until the extent of the field within which they were
to make their choice was determined.

To what extent the colonists of South Australia are indebted to the sacrifice of property,
the loss of time, the bodily fatigue, and unceasing exertions of Mr. Eyre, I also leave the
reader to gather from his own lucid narrative. The country has now been found to be almost
hemmed in by sterile districts; and the good lands, contrary to our experience of the rest
of the continent, to be nearly all in one spot. A number of enterprising colonists, therefore,
concentrated within comparatively narrow limits, could not fail of developing the resources
of the country, and of discovering what mineral treasures it may contain. The good encouragement
it has lately received has, to a certain extent, assisted in bringing it back to the position
of one of the most thriving colonies in Australia; though we must attribute much of its present
prosperity to the impulse originally given by the policy of Colonel Gawler, which, though it
may have caused a temporary financial embarrassment, is now making its happy effects sensibly felt.

THE OVERLANDERS.

The eastern extent of the country of South Australia was determined by the Overlanders, as
they call the gentlemen who bring stock from New South Wales. The first that came across were
Messrs. Bonny and Horden. An interesting account of them will be found in Captain Grey's work.
Many of these pioneers of civilization endure extraordinary hardships during their expeditions;
as an example of which I may mention that Mr. Bonny, in endeavouring to find a new route, was
compelled to kill a calf and drink its blood to save his life. On this occasion water was found
by the cattle, turned loose for that purpose. Another gentleman, who had lost his way in the
bush, had recourse to a curious expedient to assuage his burning thirst, namely, to bleed the
horse he rode, which was the means of preserving both himself and the quadruped also.

On our arrival in Adelaide the town was full of the Overlanders, and everyone was engaged in
buying or selling stock, which gave the place quite an animated appearance. From one of these
gentlemen I learned undeniable proofs that the Australians indulge in cannibalism. He had seen
in a woman's bag the hand of a child that had been partly eaten. Since that time the matter
has been placed beyond a doubt by the report of the Protector, Mr. Sievewright, who witnessed
with his own eyes a most horrible feast off the body of a young woman.* It is extraordinary
that a custom so remarkable should have so long wanted confirmation.

(*Footnote. See Mr. Eyre's Discoveries in Central Australia.)

CAPTAIN STURT.

At Adelaide I had the pleasure of making the acquaintance of the intrepid traveller Captain
Sturt, who has since again taken the field, endeavouring to penetrate to the interior of the
Australian continent, and to remove the veil of mystery that now hangs over it. From him I
learnt that the same strange kind of bird, a species of rail, that once visited Swan River,
also made its appearance in South Australia on one occasion. I have already alluded to this
remarkable circumstance in a former chapter.

During our stay we visited Mount Lofty, placed by our observations in latitude 34 degrees 58
minutes 20 seconds South, and longitude 12 degrees 30 minutes 20 seconds West of Sydney. The
cool air of this range, the greatest elevation of which is 2200 feet, was very pleasant after
a ride over the heated plain. I was agreeably surprised to find in the heart of the hills a
most comfortable inn, where our party sat down to a luncheon of lamb chops and green peas,
with a beautiful cool bottle of sherry. Such is the march of civilization! To the north of
our road was a lead mine, which will ultimately be a source of great riches to the colony;
for which, indeed, nature has done much in the way of mineral productions.

NATIVE SCHOOLS.

I was greatly pleased with the apparent success that had attended the schools of the German
Missionaries; and especially with the aptitude for learning displayed by both boys and girls;
but my pleasure would have been much increased had I not felt convinced that the system of
education adopted, possessed many serious defects. In the first place, sufficient care did
not seem to have been taken to recommend the schools to the natives, and to induce them to
send their children voluntarily. That it was necessary to resort to some means of effecting
this beyond mere persuasion, will be evident when we recollect how useful even the youngest
member of an Australian family is to its parents. Almost as soon as the child begins to walk,
certainly as soon as it is capable of receiving instruction, light tasks, even in the hunting
expeditions, are allotted to it; so that, to remove either boys or girls, and take them to
school, is, in reality, to deprive their friends of assistance, which to them is valuable.
For this reason, some compensating advantage should be offered to the father, to prevail on
him to send his children to school.

Again, when once pupils have been procured, it is exceedingly unwise to allow them to maintain
a constant intercourse with their tribe, and be thus subjected to deteriorating influences
that must almost irresistibly combat the beneficial effects of their education. But it is needless
to dwell further on this subject, as Mr. Eyre has so completely stated the question in his
late work.

REMARKS ON THE SYSTEM FOR CIVILISING THE NATIVES.

I cannot, however, refrain from alluding to another point in connection with this matter; namely,
that when I visited South Australia, all instruction was communicated in the native language.
My attention had already been drawn to the subject on visiting Tahiti, in 1835, when I perceived
with regret, that the missionaries, instead of endeavouring to introduce the English tongue,
persisted in imparting instruction in a kind of corrupted dialect, of which the words were
for the most part native, whilst the syntax and construction were in exact conformity with
our own; the observation of the same circumstance at New Zealand, had further induced me to
reflect on the subject. How much more prudent would it have been to introduce, at once, the
language of Great Britain into the islands of the Pacific; as, judging from every indication,
it must ultimately prevail over the vast variety of primitive and imperfect dialects now spoken;
and which serve as barriers between the various tribes. That the same mistake should have been
made in South Australia was the more remarkable, as public opinion seems to run completely
counter to it. It appears evident indeed, that if the object was to benefit and civilize the
aboriginal inhabitant, the right course to take, was to give him an instrument which he could
employ to enlarge his mind and extend his experience. It was wrong to expect that much good
could be done by confining him within the sphere in which his thoughts had been accustomed
to move; or at any rate, to limit the expansion of his knowledge, within the bounds of a dialect
which was only imperfectly understood by the masters who taught it. I am aware that the excellent
men who adopted this plan, were fearful of allowing the natives to acquire a facility of communicating
with the vicious part of the white population; but had they taken a more enlarged view, and
considered the absolute impossibility of preventing a certain amount of intercourse--had they
had more confidence in the better part of their own race, and reflected on the immense advantage
which the inquisitive savage would derive from being enabled to put questions to men who could
enlighten him by their answers, they would more speedily have effected their benevolent intentions.
I am of opinion that no surer method of raising the Australian in the scale of civilization
could have been devised, than to put him in possession of the English language; and I am glad
to hear that the opinion I so early formed has at length been partially acted upon. The natives
will soon be open to an engagement on board a vessel, and may expect to emulate the New Zealanders,
some of whom have risen to be mates; and to acquire the information and experience of which
they stand so much in need. Whereas, were their knowledge confined to their own imperfect dialect,
not only would they be unable to extend their acquaintance with other parts of the world, and
with the arts of civilization, but they would remain, as many of them now are, actually incapable
of communicating with many inhabitants of their own districts. For it must be borne in mind,
that very frequently, a tribe inhabiting one valley is ignorant of the language spoken in the
next. So that to instruct them only in their own forms of speech, is not only difficult, since,
on the death of each master someone else has to learn the grammar and vocabulary to supply
his place, but absolutely tends to perpetuate the isolation in which the natives now live;
and which is the main cause of the little development of their minds, and the inferior position
they occupy in the scale of civilization.

LEAVE HOLDFAST ROAD.

We sailed from Holdfast Road, on December 7th, but in consequence of light winds, with occasional
very heavy squalls, it was not until the afternoon of the 10th, that we got out to sea by Backstairs
Passage, between Cape Jervis and Kangaroo Island. On the morning of the 8th, we were obliged
to shorten all sail to a very heavy squall from West-South-West, which announced its appearance
by a distant roaring, some time before it was seen on the water. These squalls generally succeed
the hot winds that prevail at this season in South Australia, coming from the interior.*

(*Footnote. During the hot winds we observed the thermometer, in the direct rays of the sun,
to be 135 degrees.)

ARRIVE AT SYDNEY.

Easterly winds prevented us from entering Bass Strait until the 16th. In reaching in towards
the coast, seven or eight miles west of Cape Otway, we found that it projected three or four
miles too much on the charts. Bass Strait appeared under a different aspect from what it had
been accustomed to wear; light winds, by no means in keeping with our impatience, detaining
us till the 21st, when we got a kick out of the eastern entrance from a strong south-wester,
and afterwards had a good run up to Sydney, where we arrived on the 23rd.

LAND SALES.

No improvement had taken place in colonial affairs, and the sales of land, in consequence of
the high price, were very limited. The fact was, the regulations that had recently been made
gave very little satisfaction. By these the minimum price was fixed at one pound per acre;
in consequence of which many predicted that millions of acres would be excluded from the market
for ages to come, as it seemed not conceivable that any change could make them worth a quarter
that sum, especially as on an average the natural grasses of the country will only support
one sheep to four acres. The inevitable consequence was to prevent an augmentation of the emigration
fund, which inflicted a serious evil on the colony, though by many the high price was considered
a great boon, as it enabled them to enjoy, at a trifling charge, immense back runs, as safe
from the intrusion of interlopers as if they had been granted by the Crown in perpetuity. It
is my impression that the attempt to raise the largest sum of money by the sale of the smallest
number of allotments is unwise, as it operates as a discouragement to small capitalists, who
wish to occupy the land for themselves; it would in the end be more advantageous almost to
give the land away, to a certain extent, in order to encourage people to go there. It may be
worth remarking here, that on a rough calculation the pound per acre system would realise,
supposing the whole continent were sold, the sum of about 1,679,616,000 pounds.

UNSETTLED BOUNDARIES.

The most curious circumstance connected with the division of land in New South Wales, is the
uncertainty that prevails respecting the boundary line of estates, which must be the source
of endless disputes and expensive litigation among the colonists. The whole arises from the
system adopted of laying down the boundaries by the magnetic north instead of by the true.
This is in itself no easy matter, owing to the local attraction and the difficulty of finding
needles that agree. But the chief cause of endless change is the variation, which has progressively
increased at Sydney since the colony was first formed, so as to make a difference in the boundary
of a grant of land of one square mile in ten.

I will suppose a case in order to illustrate my meaning. In the early days of the colony a
piece of land is obtained by a person who merely performs the location duties, and does nothing
to his estate until the present time, when he or his successor goes to occupy it. When the
land was purchased the direction of the boundary line was, by compass North 20 degrees East;
but the proprietor finds that in consequence of the increase of variation during the interval,
a North 20 degrees East line by compass at this time would differ from what it was when his
title deeds were made out, one square mile in ten. As this change has at Sydney been progressive,
and may indeed take a contrary direction, the boundary lines of grants of lands depending on
it will vary accordingly, and afford endless food for the lawyers. A scientific friend of mine,
who was once trying to remedy the evil in a particular instance, was entreated by one of that
profession not to interfere, for by so doing he would be taking the bread out of the mouths
of himself and his brethren.

NEW ZEALAND.

Since our last visit to Sydney the colonisation of New Zealand had taken place, but from what
I heard of the loose system pursued by the Company of obtaining lands from the natives, I could
not but form an opinion that those who bought lots of them must in the end be ruined; even
their right to sell these lands at all was at the time much questioned. This being the case,
the difficulty any Governor must have to contend with, who should attempt to solve the intricate
problem involved in the land-question, was apparent, and it will be evident also that those
who pretend to form a judgment on the conduct of Captain R. Fitzroy, must take into consideration
the character of the people, both white and coloured, with whom he had to deal, and various
other circumstances that are usually kept out of sight.

During our long stay at Sydney I visited the mouth of the Hunter, for the purpose of determining
the position of Newcastle. The courthouse, according to my observations, is in latitude 32
degrees 55 minutes 50 seconds South and longitude 0 degrees 34 minutes 45 seconds East of Sydney.
This is the district from which all the coal used in New South Wales is brought, and a good
harbour is therefore of importance. A party of convicts were employed in building a breakwater,
connecting a cliffy island at the entrance with the south point of the river, for the purpose
of deepening the mouth, but I much question whether it will answer, as the silt that is washed
down by the stream not finding its former exit may by meeting the sea form a bar.

In ascending the valley of the Hunter I saw sufficient to convince me that a railroad could
easily be carried up from Newcastle to Maitland, and thence to Patrick's Plains.*

(*Footnote. It appears that a company having for its object the realization of this idea has
just been formed.)

MIDNIGHT ALARM.

I cannot at this place resist the temptation of relating an anecdote, which, though it is not
exactly connected with the subject of my work, may not be thought uninteresting by the reader.
I was one night sleeping at a friend's house; all the family had retired to rest, and I have
no doubt that a perfect stillness prevailed around. Suddenly, a noise like thunder startled
me from my slumbers, and as soon as I was able to collect my scattered thoughts, I distinctly
heard a series of violent blows against a door at the foot of the staircase leading up to my
bedroom. Though the first impression might have been that the disturbance was caused by thieves
breaking into the house, it appeared improbable that such characters should make their approach
with so much clamour. I instantly leaped out of bed, and arrived in time to see a sight which
I shall never forget.

LUDICROUS SCENE.

The owner of the house, who slept on the ground floor, equally astonished with myself at the
noise, had also quitted his pillow, and, arming himself with a sword and taper, advanced, in
the costumes of Iago, when he reappears upon the stage after stabbing Cassio and Rodorigo,
towards the door against which the monotonous thumping still continued at regular intervals.
It now appeared that the cause of his alarm was on the inside; and my host who believed that
a party of robbers had introduced themselves into his premises, hailed them in a loud voice,
promising that if they did not cease their hammering, and surrender, he would put them every
one to death. So far from attending to his suggestion the thumps increased in rapidity and
violence, and he had scarcely time to put himself in a defensive position when the door burst
open and out rushed his assailants--a multitude of round figures of all sizes, without heads,
legs, or arms! His first thought was that the supernatural existences of New South Wales had
now for the first time revealed themselves to his eyes! Here was material for a fairytale!
The genii of this country in which everything runs into leg were then it appeared all body!
Such were the fancies that flashed through his mind as he made a desperate lunge at the advancing
foe, one of whom he transfixed from breast to back, whilst the rest in an instant overthrew
and trampled him under foot, if I may use the expression. And now arose a wild scream--of laughter
from myself and the others who had witnessed this mortal combat, for the disturbers of our
night's repose were no other than a number of huge pumpkins, which had been placed in a heap
upon a press on the landing, and from having been perhaps carelessly piled had given way, and
rolled, one by one, downstairs, accumulating at the bottom against the door, until by their
weight they forced it open!

CHANGES ON BOARD THE BEAGLE.

During our stay at Sydney some important changes took place among the officers of the ship,
the principal of which were the departure for England of Captain Wickham, who had never thoroughly
recovered from the attack of dysentery he experienced on our first arrival at Swan River, and
the promotion of the writer to the vacancy thus created. Lieutenants Emery and Eden also left
for England; the former was succeeded by Lieutenant Graham Gore.

This almost total change in the arrangements of the ship requiring some delay, and the season
for passing through Torres Strait, moreover, not having commenced, it was the 3rd of June 1841,
before the Beagle again rounded Breaksea Spit, having touched on the way for a meridian distance
at Port Stephens.*

(*Footnote. We ran out of Port Stephens before a westerly gale. After passing between Entrance
Island and Soldier Point, we steered for Salamander Head, and then for Tomaree Summit, when
it was over the centre of the first projection inside Nelson Head, which led over the south-west
corner of the shoal patch lying abreast of Red Point in 4 fathoms. When Nelson Head just shut
in Yacaba extreme, we steered for the former, and passing it hauled over North-East 1/2 East
for the western part of Yacaba Head, keeping a white spot on the second point inside Nelson
Head, just open of the latter, until the leading marks for running out (which I have before
given in my former visit to Port Stephens) were on.)

SINGULAR CORROBORY.

Whilst at the latter place, I witnessed a corrobory presenting a peculiar feature. As soon
as it was dark, a number of heaps of fuel scattered here and there were simultaneously ignited,
and the whole surface of the green was speedily lighted up by the flames. When the illumination
was complete, the men, painted with spots and lines of white commenced the dance, which consisted
in running sideways or in file, stamping with great violence, and emitting an inharmonious
grunt, gesticulating violently all the time, and brandishing and striking together their weapons.
The peculiar feature in this corrobory, was the throwing of the kiley, or boomerang, lighted
at one end; the remarkable flight and extraordinary convolutions of this weapon marked by a
bright line of fire, had a singular and startling effect.

As we were rounding Breaksea Spit, we met four merchant ships, who gladly availed themselves
of our convoy. On the 6th, being anxious to repeat our last meridian distance, and also the
magnetic observations, we anchored under Cape Upstart. We likewise availed ourselves of the
visit to complete the examination of the bay on the east side of the Cape. The 7th was a remarkably
gloomy day, signalized by a very unusual fall in the barometer between 8 A.M., and 2 P.M.,
from 30.14 to 30.00, when the breeze which had been fresh in the morning, increased to a gale
with squalls. At 3, the wind shifted to the southward, and at 8 when it moderated, the barometer
again rose to 30.17. It is these sudden breezes that are so fatal to ships caught off the outer
barrier without an opening to get within its shelter. No traces of natives were seen; but the
supply of water was as abundant as before, and we took the opportunity of completing our stock.

MAGNETICAL ISLAND.

On the 8th in the evening we left for Magnetical Island, about half a mile off the west side
of which we anchored next day in 5 fathoms. The depth from thence shoals in gradually to the
head of the bay. A small rocky islet, to which our observations refer, bore south half a mile,
in latitude 19 degrees 7 minutes 10 seconds South and longitude 4 degrees 29 minutes 12 seconds
West of Sydney. On this I found a greyish kind of slate; but on Magnetical Island I discovered
no local attraction affecting the needle, so as to warrant the name bestowed by Cook. It is
a high piece of land, with an ill-defined peak in the centre, 1770 feet high.

A description and view of it have been given in the first volume. We remained there five days,
in order to rate the chronometers, and to examine the head of Halifax Bay, where a large estuary
had been reported by Captain King; but of this we could see nothing, and came to the conclusion
that he must have been deceived by mirage. The land certainly was low in that direction, and
trending in to the southward appeared afterwards to wind round to South-West, offering facilities
for getting over the range before spoken of as 3,600 feet high, and bounding the shore of Halifax
Bay. We were, however, glad of this opportunity of examining a portion of the continent, that
had always excited the attention of those who passed, by its fertile aspect.

HALIFAX BAY.

A party landed in the south corner of Halifax Bay, on a long flat sandy beach, which at high-water
is completely covered. Crossing some small sand dunes, bound together by a sort of spinifex,
we got into a luxuriant growth of grass, rich and soft, with a springing sort of feel to the
feet. A few wallaby were started in this, but we obtained none; and seeing a group of rich-looking
eucalypti and tea-trees, some of us bent our steps thitherwards, and found a small stream of
fresh water, which filtered itself through the sand towards the beach. There was no time to
trace it; but for some distance inland we could follow its course with the eye, from the luxuriant
vegetation it nourished. The soil was light and sandy, covered with dense creepers, and innumerable
quantities of the Angustifolia in splendid flower, many of the clusters occupying a space of
three feet in diameter, with a proportionate stem of about five feet from the earth. The hum
of insects, and sudden disturbance of rich-coloured parrots, screaming and fluttering through
the branches, and the strong, short, rapid flight of the dove, with its melancholy cooing,
transported us in imagination a long way inland, whereas we were not three hundred yards from
the beach. We now wended our way towards a small eminence, through long grass, in most places
interwoven with creepers, compelling us to tear our way through them in the ascent.

ASTONISH A NATIVE.

In doing so Mr. Bynoe flushed a native; but before the rest of the party could come up, he
had taken to flight. The simultaneous cries of "here's a native!" "where!" "here!" "there he
goes stark naked," rose; and before ALL EYES could catch a glimpse, his dark figure insensibly
blended with the waving branches of his wild solitude, and without a cry of fear or joy, he
was lost to us, perhaps for ever! We burst through the same brushwood he had recently thrown
aside, and entered a labyrinth of forest trees, without finding a clue to the direction he
had taken.

The whole of the country appeared to be granitic; the eminence on which we stood bore that
character, and some parts, near the beach, were thrown into massive blocks, at high-water,
completely surrounded by the flux of tide. The view inland was intercepted by hills and trees,
the former assuming the same appearance as the one we were on, but higher. Our game-bag was
thinly lined with small curlews, oyster-catchers, and sanderlings.

A sandy spit connects Magnetical Island on the south side with the main, and must be sufficiently
shoal at low water to allow the natives to ford over; for we found no canoes with those we
met on the island, who were numerous and apparently very well disposed. Although not a large
race, they were in very good condition; part of their food, is the native yam, called warran
in Western Australia. The birds on the island are common to other parts; and the wallaby, of
which Mr. Bynoe shot three, are light coloured.

CORRECT CHART.

On the evening of the 13th, we again proceeded on our passage; the night was hazy, with a few
slight squalls, much resembling the weather which we had before experienced in the same place.
Towards the close of the 15th, we anchored eight miles from Cape Tribulation, bearing North
11 degrees West. The summit of Snapper Island, bore South 7 degrees East six miles; by which
we found that both it and the coast are placed on the charts too much to the eastward.

In passing Point Barrow I was very much struck with the similarity which the low line of cliffs,
running along the summit of the high land, bears to that on the Victoria River.* We avoided
the reef off Cape Flinders, by following the directions given in the first volume, and by making
a detour to the southward round Princess Charlotte's Bay, were enabled to keep underweigh all
night.

(*Footnote. See Sketches.)

RESTORATION ISLAND.

Continuing, we reached Restoration Island soon after dark on the 19th. It was rather a confined
anchorage, to be taken up at that hour with five ships. Our arrival was under rather singular
circumstances. The night being dark, we could not make out even the outline of the high rocky
island, which appeared one dark mass; and the meeting of the land and sea was only occasionally
distinguished by patches of white, where the water broke against the steep rocky sides of the
island. Not a sound came from the shore as we drew near our berth; but no sooner did the heavy
splash of the anchor, and the noise of the cable running out, resound among the heights, than
one loud yell of startled natives seemed to rise from one end of the island to the other. The
discharge of a signal rocket, however, that curved its flight over the island, instantaneously
quieted the uproar, and a death-like silence succeeded.

NATIVES OF TORRES STRAIT.

In the morning we found that the island was occupied by a party of natives from Torres Strait.
Their canoes, which were furnished with outriggers, were hauled up on the beach, and their
spears were deposited in the bushes around, ready for immediate use; but, although they seemed
to suspect our friendly intentions towards them at first, no disturbance occurred, and some
were prevailed upon to come on board. Their presence forcibly reminded us of the melancholy
fate of the crew of the Charles Eaton; and no doubt they had come to the southward on a wrecking
expedition. They were a much finer race of men, than those met with on the shores of the continent;
their voices sounded softer, and their language appeared quite different. They instantly recognized
the drawing of a Murray Island canoe, in Flinders' Voyage, and constantly kept repeating the
word toolic, meaning iron, in the Murray Island language. The lobe of their ears was perforated
with a large piece of bone; and their hair was like that which I have before described as crisp.
I noticed that their spears were all pointed with bone, and that the shafts in those used for
fishing were large, with a coil of line attached, and a string also connecting the head, which
came loose when a porpoise or turtle was struck; whilst the wood, floating, acted as a drag.
At daylight on the 21st we proceeded on our passage.

About four or five miles to the southward of Endeavour River, we passed some discoloured patches
near the shore; and thereabouts a shoal has since been discovered. Having before expressed
an opinion that there was a safe passage through Endeavour Strait, I resolved to take this
opportunity of setting the question at rest. Before passing between the Possession Isles, towards
the entrance of it, I acquainted the rest of the convoy with my intentions, to give them the
option of taking the chance of a passage with me, or of proceeding by the ordinary route. They
chose the former, and we accordingly entered the Strait, which we found navigable for vessels
drawing 18 feet, by passing about a mile and a half to the northward of the Wallis Islands,
steering a westerly course. In crossing the ridge extending off Cape Cornwall, the least water
was 3 1/2 fathoms at low tide; North Wallis Island bearing South 64 degrees East seven miles.
There still, however, appeared to be more water to the southward, which determined me to examine
this passage more minutely on my return from the Gulf. A course was now held for Booby Island,
where we anchored in the evening (the 23rd).

PASSAGE THROUGH ENDEAVOUR STRAIT.

It was my intention, in order that we might commence our exploration of the Gulf with a good
supply, to have searched for water in Port Lihou, on the south side of Cook Island, in Endeavour
Strait; but the ships in company being able to supply us the delay was avoided. Since our last
visit, the book at the Post Office, on Booby Island, had been destroyed by some mischievous
visitors, and the box was in a very dilapidated state. We repaired the latter, and left a new
book with a supply of pens and ink.

A ton or two of water was also procured from some holes in the rocks on the island. I have
before spoken of the heaps of stone which Captain King concluded were erected by seamen; but
Dr. Wilson, in his Voyage round the World, mentions some cairns of stone on certain islands
to the northward, not previously visited by Europeans, and which must have therefore been the
work of natives.

THE PAINTED QUAIL.

Mr. Bynoe was fortunate enough to procure two pigeons of a new species (Ptilinopus superbus)
and of beautiful colours; the breast being dark purple, the crown of the head red, and the
other parts green; besides one specimen of a bird, of the same genus as one on the Abrolhos,
generally called a quail, but with this difference, that it only lays four eggs, whereas quails
lay fourteen or fifteen. It is known to the colonists as the Painted Quail; and has been called
by Mr. Gould, from the specimen we got on Booby Island, Haemipodius melinatus.

June 26.

The vessels forming our convoy departed this morning, and soon disappeared in the western horizon,
leaving the Beagle, that seemed destined to be a solitary roamer, once more alone at anchor
under Booby Island.

On the same evening she was herself pursuing her lonely way towards the Gulf of Carpentaria,
the eastern shore of which we saw on the morning of the 1st of July. In the afternoon we anchored
in 3 1/4 fathoms; the north end of a very low sandy piece of coast, which we found to be in
latitude 16 degrees 13 1/2 minutes South, longitude 9 degrees 10 East of Port Essington, bearing
South 70 degrees East, six miles and a half. From this place the coast trended South 10 degrees
West, and was fringed with mangroves; a few straggling casuarinas grew near the sandy parts,
a feature which we constantly afterwards found to recur; their tall broom-like shapes form
a remarkable element in the coast scenery of the Gulf.

SINGULAR TIDAL PHENOMENON.

A fruitless attempt was made to visit the shore, which was fronted for the distance of a mile
by a bank of soft mud. We could therefore gain no information respecting the interior; but
from the numerous fires, it appeared to be thickly inhabited. It was here that we first observed
the singular phenomenon of the tides ebbing and flowing twelve hours.

GULF OF CARPENTARIA.

Next day the coast was examined for fifteen miles to the southward; its general character has
already been given, which renders it unnecessary to dilate further here. North-east winds now
forced us away from the land, and we did not see it again till the morning of the 3rd; when,
finding as much as four fathoms within two miles and a half of a projection, we named it, in
consequence, Bold Point. It is in latitude 17 degrees 0 minutes South, longitude 8 degrees
48 minutes East of Port Essington, and is rendered conspicuous by two clumps of trees. North
23 degrees West two miles from Bold Point, we observed an opening, and after anchoring the
ship as near the entrance as possible, I left with the whaleboats, accompanied by Messrs. Forsyth,
Fitzmaurice, and Tarrant, to examine it, early in the afternoon. The view annexed, taken by
Lieutenant Gore, just after the boats had shoved off, will give the reader an excellent idea
of the appearance of the south-eastern shore of the Gulf of Carpentaria, from a distance of
only two miles. In this view, a gull, resting on the back of a sleeping turtle, will attract
the attention of the reader.

Proceeding, we crossed the bar, extending three quarters of a mile off the mouth of the inlet,
on which we found only two feet at low-water. The coast on each side was sandy, with clumps
of trees, and to the northward was fronted by an extensive flat of sand. The first reaches
of the inlet promised well, having a depth of from 1 1/2 to 3 fathoms, and a width of from
two to three hundred yards; but it ultimately became much narrower, and so torturous that,
after following its windings for twenty-seven miles, we had only advanced eight miles in a
South 60 degrees East direction from the entrance. It then divided--one branch trending south,
and the other east; and each being only fifteen yards wide and two feet deep, the water quite
salt, and the mangroves on either side, moreover, almost meeting, rendered it impossible to
proceed further. Our hopes had been buoyed up as we advanced, an impression prevailing that
we had discovered a river, from our finding that at low tide the water was simply brackish.
I can only account for this by supposing that there was an imperceptible drainage of fresh
water through the banks.

The highest part of the country we saw was on the south side of one of the reaches, six miles
from the mouth; but even there the utmost elevation was only ten feet. This rise was marked
by a growth of tolerable-sized eucalypti. Elsewhere the banks were scarcely three feet above
high-water level, and generally fringed with mangroves, behind which in many places were extensive
clear flats, reaching occasionally the sides of the inlet towards the upper parts, and forming
at that time the resort of large flights of the bronze-winged pigeon.

In many of the reaches we met with flocks of wild ducks, of the white and brown, and also of
the whistling kind. The birds we had not before seen were a large dark brown species of rail,
so wary that I could never get within shot of it, and a rather small blackbird with a white
crest. A few of the large species of crane, called the Native Companion, were also seen. The
only kind of fish taken was the common catfish.

PARTY OF NATIVES.

Alligators were very numerous for the first fifteen miles as we ascended; and we saw a party
of natives, but did not communicate with them. Their astonishment at the appearance of such
strange beings as ourselves must have been very great. It could never before have fallen to
their lot to behold any of the white race; and until our presence undeceived them, they must
have been living in happy ignorance that they were not the only specimens of humanity upon
the face of the earth.

There was little to interest us in our examination of this inlet, especially as the Dutch had
probably visited it some two hundred years before; thus destroying the principal charm it would
have possessed, namely, that of novelty. We inferred this from there being an opening laid
down in this neighbourhood by them as Van Diemen's River. I, in consequence, continued the
name, altering river to inlet; though, probably, at times, it may deserve the appellation of
a river, as after heavy falls of rain it must contain fresh water. Our finding the water only
brackish near the head favours this supposition.

The habitations of the natives were of a more substantial kind than we should have expected
to meet with in these latitudes, being snug oval-shaped huts, thatched with coarse grass. The
extremely low level nature of the country, the reader can imagine, as also how much it surprised
us to find that from the boat at high-water our eyes could wander over miles. Occasionally
on the plains, rendered warm from their colour reflecting the powerful beams of the sun, were
to be seen whirling clouds of dust, towering upwards until their centrifugal force became exhausted.
The temperature, however, was lower about four in the morning than we had noticed it since
leaving Sydney, being only 65 degrees, when easterly or land winds prevailed; those in the
afternoon were generally from seaward.

A slight rise, even of ten feet, in the water beyond the tidal change, must overflow a vast
portion of such very low country; many evidences of this having taken place were observed.*

(*Footnote. At the entrance of Van Diemen's Inlet it is high-water on the full and change of
the moon at a quarter to seven; but in the upper part the tides are three hours and a quarter
later. The length of both flood and ebb is twelve hours, and the direction of the former stream
from the northward, following the eastern shore of the Gulf.)

NATIVE WELL.

The formation of this part of the continent is of very recent date, as we did not observe any
rock; and the soil is chiefly alluvial. The only fresh water found was at a native well, half
a mile South-East from the eastern entrance point of the inlet.

In the morning of the 5th, the boats reached the ship. During our absence a few natives had
made their appearance on the beach, attending some fires, it seemed, on a hunting excursion.
Several grampuses were seen at the anchorage, also many dugongs and turtles.

In the evening the Beagle was standing across the Gulf towards Bountiful Islands. I found that
with the winds we had experienced the last few days it would be the most expeditious way of
completing our survey of the Gulf to proceed at once to the head of it, as we should then have
a fair wind, to examine the coast back to Van Diemen's Inlet.

I also resolved to ascertain if the supply of water that Flinders found on Sweers Island was
still to be obtained; and on our way thither determined on visiting Bountiful Islands, where
we arrived accordingly on the morning of the 6th. The greatest depth we had in crossing the
Gulf was 15 fathoms, the nature of the bottom being a fine dark sandy mud.

Bountiful Islands form the eastern part of a group called Wellesley Islands, and were so named
by Flinders from the great supply of turtle he found there. As, however, it was two months
before the season of their visiting the shores, we only caught twelve, for the most part females.
Near the islands was noticed the same shrubby thick compact kind of seaweed, that had previously
been seen on the parts of the North-west coast frequented by the turtle. Flinders speaks of
finding here in one turtle as many as 1,940 eggs; and such is their fecundity that were it
not for the destruction of the young by sharks and birds of prey, these temperate seas would
absolutely swarm with them.

Our anchorage was in 7 fathoms, three quarters of a mile South-East from the highest hill,
which I called Mount Flinders; it stands close to the beach, near the east end of the island,
and is in latitude 16 degrees 40 minutes 0 seconds South, longitude 7 degrees 45 minutes 25
seconds East of Port Essington.

BOUNTIFUL ISLANDS.

Bountiful Islands, two in number, are distant a mile and a half in a North-East direction from
each other. The northern and largest is two miles and a half long, and three-quarters of a
mile wide; whilst the other is rather more than half a mile each way, and has at the northern
end a mound with a remarkable casuarina tree on its summit. Both are fronted with coral reefs,
particularly at the North-East extreme; there are some cliffs on the south-east side of the
large island of sand and ironstone formation, the latter prevailing; and over the low north-western
parts a ferruginous kind of gravel was scattered. The crests of the hills or hillocks were
of a reddish sort of sandstone, and so honeycombed or pointed at the top that it was difficult
to walk over them.

MOUNT FLINDERS.

Near the landing-place, at the foot of Mount Flinders, were a few isolated gum-trees, and small
clusters of the casuarina, which were the only trees on the northern island. Some drift timber
was on the south-east and north-west sides. On the latter was a tree of considerable size,
doubtless brought from the shore of the Gulf by the North-West monsoon. Its whole surface was
covered with a long brown kind of grass, interwoven with creepers. There were great quantities
of a cinnamon-coloured bittern seen, as well as quails, doves, and large plovers, but not any
of the bustards mentioned by Flinders. We saw no traces of land animals of any kind; neither
did we of the natives. A flock of screaming white cockatoos had taken up their abode on the
south island, where also some bulbs of the Angustifolia were found. A few small fish, besides
sharks, were caught alongside the ship.

I was surprised to find the tides an hour later than at Van Diemen's Inlet; their velocity,
likewise, was increased to two knots; the flood-stream came from the north-east at the anchorage.

FOWLER ISLAND.

July 7.

At daylight, we left for Sweers Island; but owing to light winds, chiefly easterly, did not
reach Investigator Road, between Sweers and Bentinck Islands, before the afternoon of the 8th.
The soundings on the way were generally 9 fathoms, fine sandy mud. A small islet, lying off
the South-East side of Bentinck Island, and forming the immediate eastern side of the Road,
I named after the first lieutenant of the Investigator, now Captain Fowler.

Under Mount Inspection, a hill 105 feet high, and the most remarkable feature hereabouts, on
the South-East extreme of Sweers Island, a party of twelve natives was observed as we passed.
They gazed silently at us, making no demonstration of joy, fear, anger, or surprise. It is
possible they may have been stupefied by the appearance of that wonderful creation of man's
ingenuity--a ship; in their eyes it must have seemed a being endowed with life walking the
waters, for purposes to them incomprehensible, on a mission to the discovery of which they
could not even apply the limited faculties they possessed. Fortunately or unfortunately for
them--according as we determine on the value of civilization to the aboriginal races of the
South--they did not possess the fatal, or salutary, curiosity that prompts most men to attempt
fathoming the depth of whatever is mysterious. Restrained by their fears, or by their ignorant,
or philosophical indifference, they did not again show themselves: and though when we landed
we once or twice thought we heard sounds of life in our vicinity, the natives of the island
never again came under our observation. It is remarkable that the same circumstance happened
to Flinders. He also perceived human beings at a distance; but when he endeavoured to communicate
with them, they retired, as he mentions, to some of the caverns that exist on the island, and
were seen no more.

SWEERS ISLAND.

Sweers Island appeared to be very woody, and bounded by low dark cliffs on the north-east side.
We found a long extent of foul ground, with a dry reef near its outer end, extending off two
miles in a South 33 degrees East direction from the South-East extreme. Our anchorage was in
5 1/2 fathoms, nearly abreast of a remarkable and solitary sandy point on the above-mentioned
island. As we beat up, the navigable width between this and Fowler Island was found to be one
mile, and the depth 4 and 5 fathoms.

INVESTIGATOR'S WELL.

A party was immediately despatched in search of the Investigator's well. Previous to landing,
the whole island appeared to be perfectly alive with a dense cloud of small flying animals,
which, on our reaching the shore, proved to be locusts in countless numbers, forming a complete
curtain over the island. They rose from the ground in such prodigious flights at each footstep
that we were absolutely prevented from shooting any of the quails with which the island abounds.
This annoyance, however, was only experienced for the first day or two, as the locusts winged
their flight to Bentinck Island, leaving the trees only laden with them; out of these they
started, when disturbed, with a rushing noise like surf on a pebbly beach.

FLINDERS' WELL.

The Investigator's old well was discovered half a mile eastward of the point, to which I gave
the name of Point Inscription, from a very interesting discovery we made of the name of Flinders'
ship cut on a tree near the well, and still perfectly legible, although nearly forty years
old, as the reader will perceive from the woodcut annexed. On the opposite side of the trunk
the Beagle's name and the date of our visit were cut.

It was thus our good fortune to find at last some traces of the Investigator's voyage, which
at once invested the place with all the charms of association, and gave it an interest in our
eyes that words can ill express. All the adventures and sufferings of the intrepid Flinders
vividly recurred to our memory; his discoveries on the shores of this great continent, his
imprisonment on his way home, and cruel treatment by the French Governor of Mauritius, called
forth renewed sympathies. I forthwith determined accordingly that the first river we discovered
in the Gulf should be named the Flinders, as the tribute to his memory which it was best becoming
in his humble follower to bestow, and that which would most successfully serve the purpose
of recording his services on this side of the continent. Monuments may crumble, but a name
endures as long as the world.

Being desirous of ascertaining if now, in the dry season, water could be obtained in other
parts of the island, I ordered a well to be dug on the extreme of Point Inscription, a more
convenient spot for watering a ship, and at a depth of 25 feet met excellent water, pouring
through a rock of concreted sand, pebbles, and shells.

INVESTIGATOR ROAD.

This was a very important discovery, as Investigator Road is the only anchorage for vessels
of all sizes at the head of the Gulf in either monsoon, and possesses an equal supply of wood,
fish, and birds, with turtle close at hand on Bountiful Islands. Moreover, should an expedition
be formed for the purpose of exploring the interior from the head of the Gulf, it is, as Flinders
remarks, "particularly well adapted for a ship during the absence of the travellers." In addition
to this, it is a point at which an expedition would first arrive to arrange plans for the future;
and lastly, I should observe that in case of our being fortunate enough to find rivers or fertile
country on the southern shores of the Gulf, we at once saw that we might look forward to the
time when Investigator Road* should be the port from which all the produce of the neighbouring
parts of the continent must be shipped, and when it should bear on its shores the habitations
of civilized man, and the heavenward pointing spires of the Christian Church. The feeling that
we might be the means of bringing about this happy state of things by discovering a country
habitable by Europeans, greatly added to the zest with which we prosecuted our subsequent researches.

(*Footnote. This road fully deserves the name of a good port, being four miles in length by
one in breadth, with a depth of from 4 to 6 fathoms, and sheltered at all points except from
south to South-South-East, in which direction the shoalness of the water prevents any sea from
getting up.)

SURVEY THE ANCHORAGE.

On duly weighing these considerations in my mind I determined to make an accurate survey of
this anchorage, including Sweers and the eastern portion of Bentinck Island; and to despatch
two boats to examine the group of islands to the north-west, and the mainland from thence to
abreast of the south-west end of Bentinck Island. On the morning of the 9th, accordingly, Messrs.
Forsyth and Parker proceeded with the whaleboats on this service.

Near Point Inscription, I found a native skull on the shore, with forearm, left tibia, and
a portion of the inferior maxillary. They must have been exposed some time, as they were very
nearly destroyed by the action of the air. How they could have come in this situation was a
mystery, as there was nothing indicating a place of burial.

On the eastern Point of Bentinck Island a number of rafts were seen, which suggested the name
of Raft Point. We also on one occasion perceived some natives at a distance.

Mount Inspection being the highest land in the neighbourhood, became the principal station
of the survey. From it a glimpse was got of the mainland, bearing South 17 degrees West about
eighteen miles. The north-eastern end of the island, also, could be seen, fronted with rocky
ledges extending three quarters of a mile off. This hill is a mass of calcareous rock, similar
to the high parts of Bountiful Island, with the same honeycombed surface, as if it had been
exposed to the action of the sea. In other parts of the island there is a great quantity of
ironstone; and the cliffs on the eastern side are mixed with this and pipe-clay; on the northern
extreme are some lakes or swamps.

SOIL, ETC. OF BENTINCK ISLAND.

The soil is chiefly a mixture of sand and decomposed vegetable matter; but it cannot boast
of fertility. The wood on the island, which consisted for the most part of gums, wattles, a
few acacias, palms, and, near the beach, a straggling casuarina or two, bespoke this by its
stunted appearance; but as cotton grows well at Port Essington, there can be little doubt that
it will thrive here. Several of the bustards spoken of by Flinders, were noticed; but too wary
to be killed. They were as large as those seen in the neighbourhood of Port Phillip, but much
browner. The other birds, most common, will be found in an extract from the game book, given
in a future page. We saw no animals, except some large iguanas.

Investigator Road is sheltered to the northward by shoal water stretching across between Sweers
and Bentinck islands. The latter is slightly elevated, and thickly wooded; it is large in comparison
with its neighbours, being about ten miles in extent either way. Its south side is much indented,
and the projections as well as the extreme of Fowler Island, are lined with mangroves; they
are fronted with coral ledges. Near the south-east point, I noticed large patches of the ferruginous
sort of gravel, before alluded to in King's Sound.

On one occasion a party thought they heard a cooey--or cry peculiar to the natives of Port
Jackson--uttered by some of the aborigines in the distance. It would have been exceedingly
interesting to ascertain if this actually was the case; as the sound generally emitted by the
natives of the northern coasts when they wish to communicate with each other afar off, is the
monotonous "oh! oh!"

MR. FORSYTH'S REPORT.

On the 13th the boats returned, having completed the work that had been allotted them. Mr.
Forsyth reported their proceedings as follows: Leaving the north point of Bentinck Island,
off which a reef extends nearly three miles, they crossed over to the south end of Mornington
Island, bearing North 60 degrees West twenty-three miles, the depth, midway between being 7
and 8 fathoms. The south shore of this island was found to be low and sandy, much indented,
and fronted with reefs. From the south extreme, the nearest part of the main, called Point
Bayley, bore South 32 degrees West eleven miles, the intervening space being occupied by four
low isles, which I named after Mr. Forsyth. With the exception of 5 fathoms two miles south-west
from the end of Mornington Island, the space between it and the main is only navigable for
boats; and westward of Forsyth Islands, shoals, partly dry, extend off four miles from the main.

POINT PARKER.

From Point Bayley,* where we found a native well, the coast trended on one hand North 73 degrees
West, in which direction, at the distance of two and four miles, were small openings in the
low mangrove shore; whilst, on the other, it trended South 53 degrees East with inlets two,
three, and six miles distant, and a point ten miles and a half from Point Bayley, which was
named after the officer in charge of one of the boats, Point Parker. A hillock elevated about
thirty feet, which was great for this part of the continent, rendered it conspicuous. Like
Point Bayley, it is fronted with a rocky ledge, and has a sandy beach on the south side. From
Point Parker the coast trended south ten miles, which was the furthest the boats reached; beyond,
it appeared to take a more easterly direction.

(*Footnote. In latitude 16 degrees 35 minutes 10 seconds South, and longitude 6 degrees 55
minutes 30 seconds East of Port Essington. )

The hillock on Point Parker, afforded Mr. Forsyth a slight view of the interior: it was a vast
plain with clumps of small trees interspersed here and there; a growth of gums rose close behind
the fringe of mangroves that lined the coast to the southward, and in other places constituted
the only vegetable production of the country that could be seen. Although there was little
that could be called actually interesting in the vast level that stretched away to an indefinite
distance from Point Parker, yet still, when the reflection presented itself that never before
had the eye of a European wandered over it, the feelings of the exploring party were necessarily
of a pleasing character.

This projection in the coast brought it within thirteen miles of the east end of Bentinck Island.
Allen's Isle lay between at the distance of three miles and a half; on some ironstone cliffs
at the south-east end of it, Mr. Forsyth, after leaving, saw some natives; he speaks of this
island as being more fertile than any other part visited, being clothed with rich grass, and
with small trees and shrubs of a very green appearance.

APPEARANCE OF THE NATIVES.

It was on a little island, two miles to the eastward of it, that Flinders succeeded in obtaining
an interview with a party of natives; two of whom, he says, were of the great height of six
feet three inches, but with features similar to those on the south and east coasts. They were
deficient in two front teeth of the upper jaw; their hair was short but not curly; and with
the exception of a fillet of network worn round the head of one of them, they had not a vestige
of clothing. Two of the older men of the party, Flinders was surprised to find had undergone
the rite of circumcision; they had rafts of precisely the same construction as those in use
on the North-west coast.

On the 17th, very unusual gloomy weather was experienced, quite what we should have expected
from the opposite monsoon; indeed the wind was light from the westward for a short time. The
morning broke, however, with a moderate South-South-East breeze, accompanied by constant heavy
rain; the temperature, before daylight, was 61 degrees.

(*Footnote. Our observations place Point Inscription in latitude 17 degrees 6 minutes 50 seconds
South and longitude 7 degrees 28 minutes 30 seconds East of Port Essington; variation, 4 degrees
35 minutes easterly: the time of high-water at the full and change, was 8 A.M., when the tide
rose 9 feet; the stream changes to the northward two hours before high-water. At other times
the change takes place about one hour before. The direction of the flood is South by West and
that of the ebb North; the strength of the former is from half a knot to one knot an hour,
and of the latter, three quarters of a knot to one and a half. Near the full and change days
there is no slack water; the northerly stream is then longer by two hours: during the neaps
they are more equal, each being of twelve hours duration.)

Our operations were completed by the 19th, but in consequence of strong winds from the South-South-East
we did not leave before the 21st; when, beating out against a fresh breeze,* we stood over
towards the main to the south-west of Bentinck Island, but found the water so shallow that
we could not approach within eight miles.

(*Footnote. The west point of Sweers Island, bearing North 10 degrees East and the east point
of Bentinck Island, North 8 degrees East mark the limits of each board. The north-west part
of Sweers Island just shut in with Point Inscription leads in, and the dry part of the reef
off the south-east end of Sweers Island, bearing South 85 degrees East, clears the reef off
the south end of Sweers and Fowler Islands. A white patch of cliff to the northward of Point
Inscription, in one with it, leads over the extreme of the shoal off the south-east end of
Fowler Island.)

PROCEED TO SURVEY THE MAIN.

The boats were again sent, with Messrs. Fitzmaurice and Pasco, to continue the examination
of the shore of the Gulf, towards the head of it, where they were to meet the ship. We made
the best of our way thither, after securing some soundings to the South-West of Sweers Island
and carrying a line eastwards from it, midway across the gulf, where we found a very even dark
sandy mud bottom, with a depth of 7 fathoms.

THE SANDHILL.

Strong south and south-east winds, which reduced the temperature, on one occasion, to 56 degrees
about 4 A.M., generally prevailed, excepting for a few hours in the afternoon; quite reminding
us of the winds we experienced at Depuch Island on the North-west coast, and preventing us
from reaching our destination till the morning of the 24th, when we anchored two miles and
a quarter from a particularly bare sand hillock, bearing South 53 degrees West. This was named
The Sandhill, par excellence; there being no other on the shore of the Gulf. To the eastward
there appeared an opening with a remarkable quoin-shaped clump of tall mangroves at the entrance.
It being neap tide, we were enabled to take the ship thus close to the shore, and as it was
the nearest approach we could make to the head of the Gulf, another boat expedition was set
on foot to explore it, consisting of the yawl and gig, in which Lieutenant Gore and myself
left the ship the same afternoon. The first spot visited was The Sandhill, which we found to
be forty feet high, in latitude 17 degrees 38 minutes 20 seconds South, longitude 7 degrees
48 minutes 00 seconds East of Port Essington. From its summit we immediately perceived that
our conjecture was right respecting the opening close to the eastward. The shore was sandy
to the westward, a remarkable circumstance, considering that nearly everywhere else all was
mangrove. Whatever we saw of the interior, appeared to be low patches of bare mud, which bespoke
frequent inundations. We could also trace a low mangrove shore forming the head of the Gulf,
without any appearance of a large opening, which was a bitter disappointment; in some measure,
however, compensated by the fact that it was all new, Flinders having expressed himself doubtful
how far back the shore lay.

DISASTER INLET.

The point on which The Sandhill is situated I called after Lieutenant Gore, and the inlet,
which we entered just before dark, Disaster Inlet, from a circumstance of what may be called
a tragical nature which happened in it. Like all the other inlets, as we afterwards found,
it had a bar scarcely passable at low-water for boats; but within there was a depth of two
and three fathoms. It appears that the streams passing out of these openings groove out a channel
in the great flat fronting the shores for from one to three miles; but as the distance from
their mouths increased, the velocity and consequent strength of the stream diminished in proportion,
and, as we afterwards found, at this season was never strong enough to force a channel the
entire way through the flat or bank at the entrance, which was thrown out in consequence further
from the shore. The projection thus formed in the great flat indicated the importance of the inlet.

We passed the night a mile within the mouth of Disaster Inlet, and next morning, which was
cool and bracing enough for a latitude twenty degrees further south, we followed its upward
course, which was more westerly than suited our impatience to proceed direct into the interior.
Four miles and a half from the entrance, in a straight line, though ten by the distance the
boats had gone, we came on a reach trending south. This improvement in the course was equally
felt by all, as was shown by the bending of the oars to the eager desire of the crew to push
on; but scarcely had the boats glided midway through the hitherto untraversed piece of water,
when the tragical event occurred, which the name of the inlet serves to recall, although it
is too deeply engraven on the memories of both actors and spectators ever to be forgotten.

COCKATOOS.

The mangroves that in patches fringed the banks, whilst all besides was one flat grassy plain,
were literally whitened with flocks of noisy cockatoos, giving the trees an appearance as if
they were absolutely laden with huge flakes of snow--a somewhat remarkable aspect for a scene
in such a clime to wear. It seemed as if the rigid hand of winter had for once been permitted
to visit with its icy touch this tropical land; but the verdure of all around, the serenity
of the heavens, warm with the fervid beams of the sun that gilded the rippling waters of the
reach, dispelled the illusion. And soon the huge masses of white plumage began to float from
tree to tree across the reach, whilst their screams as they flew by seemed a fair challenge
to the sportsman. Mr. Gore accordingly resolved to secure a few of them for dinner, and put
out his gun for the purpose.

NARROW ESCAPE.

The sudden arrest of the birds' flight--the flash of the gun--the volume of smoke--caught the
eye as it closed at the explosion; with some of us it might have been for ever! Twas the affair
of but a second. Death came to our sides, as it were, and departed ere the report of the gun
had ceased to roll over the waters of the reach. Something whizzed past my ear, deafening and
stupefying me for a moment--the next I saw my much-valued friend Gore stretched at his length
in the bottom of the boat, and I perceived at a glance the danger we had incurred and providentially
escaped.

ACCIDENT TO LIEUTENANT GORE.

His fowling piece had burst in his hand, and flown away in fragments, leaving only a small
portion of the barrel at my feet. How it happened that the coxswain and myself were unhurt
seemed a miracle. I was on the right of Mr. Gore, in the stern-sheets of the yawl, and the
coxswain was a little on the left, and over him, steering. Our preservation can only be attributed
to Him whose eye is on all his creatures and who disposes of our lives as it seemeth good in
his sight. Without intending to be presumptuous, we may be permitted to believe that we were
spared partly on account of the service in which we were engaged--so beneficial to humanity,
so calculated to promote the spread of civilization, which must ever be the harbinger of Christianity.
At any rate it is not, in my humble opinion, any impeachment of the wisdom of the Almighty,
to imagine that he determines the fortunes of men according to the work in which they are engaged.

Mr. Gore's hand was dreadfully lacerated; but no bones were broken; and on recovering from
his swoon, the first words he uttered were: "Killed the bird!"--an expression truly characteristic
of a sportsman, and evincing how exactly the mind, when its perception has been momentarily
suspended, reverts, on recovering, to the idea last present to it.

My first impulse was to return to the ship; but at the earnest request of Mr. Gore, who felt
somewhat revived after I washed his hand in brandy and tied it up, we continued; but the utter
silence and grave demeanour of all showed that each was occupied with thoughts of the danger
some of us had escaped of being ushered unprepared into the presence of our Maker. A rustling
in the bushes on the bank, as we wound round an island of some size at the extremity of this
nearly fatal reach, broke the reverie in which we were indulging. Fancying it was a kangaroo,
I fired at the spot, when a half-grown wild dog came rolling down into the water. It was of
a dark brown colour, with large patches of white, differing from any of the kind I had ever
seen before.

Above this island we pursued a general West-South-West direction; but to our great mortification
there was water for the yawl only four miles further. In the gig I was able to ascend nearly
two miles higher in a South-West by South direction. Our position was then nine miles South-West
1/2 West from the mouth in a direct line; but thrice that distance by the meandering course
of the inlet through this vast level. The width had decreased from three hundred yards at the
entrance to scarcely one hundred, and the depth from two fathoms to a quarter. The banks were,
at intervals fringed with mangroves, the country behind being very open plains, with patches
of dwarf gums scattered here and there.

DUCKS, PIGEONS, ETC.

The brown whistling wood-ducks were in great abundance at the yawl's furthest; and in three
shots I bagged twenty. The native companions were also numerous, of two kinds, one with black
on the back, and the other, which kept more on the plain, of a blue or slate colour. Pigeons,
too, were abundant; and the rare large brown rail was frequently observed at low-water, running
along the edge of the mangroves, too wary, however, as before, to be shot. There were few alligators
seen; and the only fish caught was the catfish, common in the Adelaide and Victoria Rivers.
Where the yawl lay the bank was clear, forming cliffs ten feet high, in which no stone or rock
was found; neither had we seen any before.

ARRANGE FOR A PEDESTRIAN EXCURSION.

In the evening and early part of the night observations were made for our position.* A party
was also arranged for a pedestrian excursion in the morning, as I was determined on seeing
a few miles more of the interior than it was our good fortune to have obtained by water conveyance.
I had ordered a gun to be fired in the evening to inform Mr. Fitzmaurice and his party of the
ship's position; and we distinctly heard it booming over the plain, for the first time awakening
the echoes to the sounds of warfare peculiar to civilized man. May many years elapse ere they
be once more roused by the voice of cannon fired with a less peaceful intent!

(*Footnote. Latitude 17 degrees 42 minutes 55 seconds South, longitude 7 degrees 42 minutes
30 seconds East of Port Essington.)

July 25.

The first grey streaks of the morning were scarcely visible in the horizon, ere my party were
scrambling up the eastern bank, eager to penetrate where no European foot had hitherto pressed.
After leaving the inlet some distance behind, we took a South 1/2 East direction. The morning
was deliciously cool for our purpose, the temperature being 56 degrees; and there was a most
delightful elasticity in the air, quite in unison with the buoyant spirits that sustained us,
as we stepped out over what we felt to be untrodden ground.

APPEARANCE OF THE COUNTRY.

It had often before been my lot to be placed in a similar position, and I have necessarily,
therefore, given expression already to identical sentiments; but I cannot refrain from again
reminding the reader how far inferior is the pleasure of perusing the descriptions of new lands,
especially when attempted by an unskilled pen, to that which the explorer himself experiences.
All are here on an equal footing; the most finished writer and the most imperfect scribbler
are on the same level; they are equally capable of the exquisite enjoyment of discovery, they
are equally susceptible of the feelings of delight that gush upon the heart as every forward
step discloses fresh prospects, and brings a still more new horizon, if I may so speak, to
view. And it may be added, that to the production of the emotions I allude to, beauty of landscape
is scarcely necessary. We strain forward incited by curiosity, as eagerly over an untrodden
heath, or untraversed desert, as through valleys of surpassing loveliness, and amid mountains
of unexplored grandeur; or perhaps, I should say, more eagerly, for there is nothing on which
the mind can repose, nothing to tempt it to linger, nothing to divert the current of its thoughts.
Onward we move, with expectation at its highest, led by the irresistible charm of novelty,
almost panting with excitement, even when every step seems to add certainty to the conviction
that all that is beyond resembles all that has been seen. In the present case, with the exception
of a clump of trees to the southward, there was nothing to break the vast level that stretched
before us, its rim sharply defined against the morning sky. Here and there a charred stump,
the relic of some conflagration, reared its blackened face, serving to keep us in the direction
we had taken at starting, which was over a rich alluvial soil, that seemed to hold out a promise
of a future brilliant destiny to this part of the continent. A partially dry lagoon communicating
with another that was wet, to the eastward, and with a slight drain from the inlet to the westward,
was crossed at the distance of four miles, when the direction we pursued was changed to South
by West and a mile further we gained the raised patch of woodland already mentioned, where
we put up a small light-coloured kangaroo. Descending from this we entered a low plain, the
northern part of which is evidently at times under water. It is five miles across, surrounded
with trees of small and open growth. Continuing over a clayey soil till we had made six miles
from the boats, we turned off to the eastward, for the wood on that side, distant two miles,
with the hope of getting a better view of the country around from the top of a tree; but there
was nothing for my eager eyes to wander over but alternate plain and patches of stunted wood,
stretching away in unbroken monotony on every side. The furthest we saw of this new country
was in latitude 17 degrees 55 minutes South. It was with great reluctance that we turned our
backs on a route so direct to the interior of the continent, now comparatively a proximate
point; and the tide of animal spirits that flowed so high during our advance to the southward
ebbed rapidly as soon as the retreat commenced; and our return appeared wearisome.

We now varied our track, and traced the head of the inlet, where we saw the smokes of the natives
and heard them shouting to each other, though they did not come in sight; the prints of their
feet also seemed quite recent. Near the partially dry lagoon a small freshwater lake was found,
and the only rock formation yet seen; it was a sand and ironstone. About two miles south of
the boats we discovered another freshwater lake, literally alive with waterfowl, whose varied
colours contrasted charmingly with the bright verdure of the banks that seemed to repose on
the silent waters, and were reflected on its glassy surface, now and then disturbed by the
birds as they winged their way from one part to the other. Spoonbills and ibises, some white
and some glossy rifle-green, and two kinds of a small grey duck, seen once only before on the
Victoria, are among those worth enumerating. In the afternoon we got back to the boats. I may
here mention, that as in Van Diemen's Inlet, the water appeared to be less salt at low tide.

RETURN TO THE SHIP.

July 26.

At daylight the boats moved off on their return; and soon after the sun's bright orb had sunk
into the same vast dead level from which it rose, we reached the entrance. Being anxious that
the surgeon should see Mr. Gore's hand, I sent the gig on with him to the ship; next morning,
as we crossed the bar, he rejoined us, and I was very happy to find the ablution in brandy
had been of great service to his wound.

After leaving Disaster Inlet, the coast was examined to the eastward, and at the distance of
fifteen miles, in an East 5 degrees South direction, we came to a projection that we called
Middle Point. The shore between fell back, forming a bight three miles deep, in latitude 17
degrees 44 minutes South, the most southern shore of the Gulf. A growth of mangroves prevented
our landing at high-water, and at low, soft mud flat fronted the shore for the distance of
a mile and more. Five miles from Disaster Inlet there was a small creek; with others, three,
four, and six miles westward of Middle Point.

MORNING INLET.

Two miles south-east of it was another opening of more importance, almost forming a channel
quite through the flat at the entrance, which extended three miles off the north-west side
of Middle Point. I named this Morning Inlet, from the time at which I entered it; and after
proceeding a mile in a southerly direction landed for observations, just within the mangroves
that fringe the entire coast. My view of the interior was very limited: for some distance were
patches of bare mud, whitened with a salt incrustation, which appeared the character of the
country immediately behind the mangroves; afterwards it rose into plains, on which small gum-trees
were to be seen in the distance.

From Morning Inlet the coast was slightly waving and trended East 20 degrees North. At the
end of twelve miles we found a little opening on the south-east side of a small point which
concealed the boats from two natives, who were out on the mud flats, till we got close to them.
They gazed for a moment at the strange apparition, and then made off as fast as the nature
of the ground would admit; they were quite naked, and we were not a little amused to see them
floundering through the soft mud. Close to the westward of this opening are two clumps of tall
mangroves, the only remarkable objects on the shore of the Gulf from Disaster Inlet. There
was another small inlet four miles further on; and what is remarkable for this neighbourhood,
a sandy beach midway between them.

EXPLORE AN OPENING.

On the evening of the 28th we entered a large and promising opening,* distant twenty-one miles
from Morning Inlet; its importance was made manifest by its forming a channel of two feet at
low-water through the flat at the entrance, which it threw out considerably.

(*Footnote. The mouth is in latitude 17 degrees 36 minutes 40 seconds South, and longitude
8 degrees 27 minutes 0 seconds East of Port Essington.)

The boats proceeded up the opening at daylight on the 29th; our hopes were considerably raised
by finding a depth of three and, in some places, five fathoms, and a width of about a hundred
and twenty yards. The banks were, as usual, lined with mangroves; behind which, on the eastern
side, retreated vast plains, with trees of some size scattered over them. They extend to the
coast eastward of the entrance, which is sandy for some distance, with casuarinae, acacias,
and small gums, which was not only a pleasing change from the monotonous mangrove shore, but
had also its utility, serving to show the mouth of the opening from the offing.

We pursued a general South-South-East direction, though from the windings, and the tide being
against us, our progress was slow; and at the end of eleven miles were obliged to wait its
changing. Here we landed in the mouth of a small creek at the end of a clear bank on the eastern
side; the opposite one also began to wear the same character, and our eyes therefore were permitted
to wander over an immense extent of very level open grassy country, dotted with clumps of trees.

The tides changing only twice in twenty-four hours presented a great impediment to our exploration,
and it was evening before we could again move onwards.

AUSTRALIAN CUCKOO.

Whilst waiting the tide, the note of a bird resembling the cuckoo broke the deep stillness
that prevailed. It was evening; all around was calm: the wide extended plain dimly stretching
away on every side, the waters as they imperceptibly swelled between the curving banks, the
heavens in which the last rays of the sun still lingered, gilding the few clouds that hovered
near the horizon. A pleasing sadness stole over the heart as these familiar sounds--the note
of this Australian cuckoo, if I may venture to name a bird from its voice--floated through
the tranquil air. Recollections of the domestic hearth, and the latticed window shaded with
vines and honeysuckles, and the distant meadows, and glades, and woodlands, covered with the
bursting buds of spring; and--pervading all and giving a charm to all--the monotonous but ever
welcome and thrilling note of the cuckoo sounding afar off: recollections of all these things,
I say, rushed o'er each fancy, and bore us for a moment back in imagination to our island home.

DISCOVERY OF FLINDERS RIVER.

The more rapid flow of the tide and the announcement that there was now sufficient water for
the boats to proceed, broke our reverie; and we were soon once more cleaving the moonlit reach.
I may here mention that this bird, and another with a more mournful cry, the same before spoken
of up the Victoria River, were heard again at eventide.

Avoiding a large shoal, which threatened to arrest our further progress, by a narrow channel
close to the west bank, we continued to pursue the upward course of this inlet or river--we
were yet uncertain what to call it--in a general southerly direction; though the reaches were
singularly tortuous, resembling the folds of a snake. The depth was now only about one fathom,
and our progress was much impeded by banks; but by the friendly aid of the moon we were able
to proceed, and many of the sudden bends were revealed by the silvery stream of light it shed
over the still waters as they lay between banks now overhung by mangrove thickets, now receding
in plains dotted with gloomy clumps of gumtrees, as far as the eye, from our low position and
by the imperfect light afforded, could reach. As we advanced, the measured plash of the oars
frightened from their roosting places in the trees, a huge flock of screeching vampires, that
disturbed for a time the serenity of the scene by their discordant notes; and a few reaches
further up, noisy flights of our old friends, the whistling-ducks, greeted our ears. Their
presence and cries were hailed with delight, not exactly because they gave rise to any romantic
associations, but because they promised to recruit our victualling department, which had not
been supplied with such dainties since leaving Disaster Inlet. Had our taste resembled that
of some of the natives of the western coast of Africa, the vampires would have answered our
purpose.

The yawl grounding repeatedly, occasioned so much delay, that after proceeding seven miles
I pushed on with the gig alone. Our course was still South by East and the reaches were less
crooked. Four miles further we were delighted to find our progress rendered hazardous by sunken
trees, so much so indeed, that I was most reluctantly obliged to wait a few hours for daylight.
There could now no longer be a doubt that we were in a river, and I immediately embraced the
opportunity of gratifying my earnest and heartfelt desire of paying the promised tribute to
our scientific predecessor; and accordingly named this, our first discovery, after him, The
Flinders.

As soon as the blackened heads of the fallen trees, evidences of how fierce a torrent had borne
them hither, could be discerned, we proceeded. The reaches became again tortuous, but we still
made some progress. The mangroves were no longer to be seen fringing the banks with their garden
shrubbery appearance. In a broad easterly reach, some natives were burning the country close
to the west bank, but they did not show themselves. At the end of it the river expanded into
a beautiful sheet of water a quarter of a mile in width, though only three feet deep.

ACCIDENT TO THE BOAT.

Some low grassy islets were scattered here and there, reposing in emerald verdure on the surface
of the stream, which was reverting under the influence of the tide, towards its source, and
now hurried the boat so rapidly through a narrow channel between the west side of a large island
and a low line of earthy cliffs, as to carry her foul of a submerged tree and half fill and
almost capsize her. In order to ascertain the extent of the damage, we landed on a small sandy
beach, in which was the fresh print of a native's foot; but we neither heard nor saw him or
his companions, although columns of smoke from their fires stole upwards through the calm still
air on all sides. A fine sheet of water now lay before us, trending southwards for upwards
of two miles, with a width of about a quarter; and it was with increasing interest and anxiety
that we pulled up it.

APPEARANCE OF THE RIVER.

Passing a line of cliffs, twenty feet high, the banks became green and grassy, descending with
an almost imperceptible slope into the stream, and blending with their vivid reflections so
as to render it difficult to determine where was the point of contact. It seemed as if we were
gliding through an indefinite expanse of limpid water reposing between two vast plains, that
here rose higher than we had before seen the land on this part of the continent.

Hurrying on with a still favourable tide, but at a rate much too slow for our impatience, we
passed two other small grassy islets, and a third was before us. The eastern bank had become
steep, overhanging, and clothed with a mass of luxuriant creepers; whilst on the opposite side
was a low woody patch, partly immersed by the lake-like glassy water of the river, into which
one slender tree dipped its feathery crest, appearing like another Narcissus, to admire its
own beauty in the stream. In front, the eye could penetrate far down the reach hemmed in as
it was by trees that clustered thick on the water's brink.

NATIVE BURIAL TREE. We endeavoured to proceed in order to satisfy our curiosity, but a rocky
ledge extending across the river arrested our further progress at this time of the tide.

(*Footnote.

There was an air of loneliness in the spot, perfectly in keeping with the feelings this strange
discovery naturally called forth; and from the few recent signs of the natives, it would appear
that here, as in other parts of the continent, spots where the dead lie are kept sacred. Some
dark brown and black hawks were perched on the trees near, looking like so many mutes stationed
to show respect to the departed; but their intentions were of a different character, as they
were waiting, I imagine, for some friendly gust of wind to shake off the covering of the deceased.

EXTENSIVE CONFLAGRATION.

While we were making these observations, the conflagration on the point above continued to
rage with great fury; and I have no doubt that it was kindled in order to attract our attention
and prevent us from visiting this sacred spot. Though we saw not the form of a living being,
I am persuaded that the eyes of the natives were upon us, and that our every movement was watched.
The method they adopted to lure us away from the neighbourhood of the dead was simple and ingenious,
and might have proved successful had not the interposing ledge of rocks prevented our further
progress. To effect their purpose they must have burnt up a very large space, as the smoke
that arose obscured all that quarter of the heavens. We observed also that the ground about
the burial tree had been submitted to the flames, as if to keep away the few kangaroos that
visit this spot.

This singular mode of disposing of the dead among the aborigines of Australia, extends to the
banks of the Murray River, on the south coast, as we learn from Mr. Eyre's vivid narrative;
and as we know that it exists in New Guinea, we may fairly infer that so far we can trace the
migration of the population of the fifth division of the globe.*

(*Footnote. It is a curious circumstance to observe that the same custom prevailed among the
ancient Scythians, as we learn from Mr. St. John's History of the Manners and Customs of the
Ancient Greeks volume 3 page 345.)

REMARKS ON NATIVE RITES.

I have always considered that Eastern and Western Australia were originally separated by the
sea; and that when they were thus separated (which the narrow space, and as I conjecture, lowness
of the country between the Gulf of Carpentaria and Lake Torrens fully bears out) the habits
of what is now the northern side of the continent found their way to the southern. It is true
I have in another place conjectured, that in cases where similar habits are found to prevail
at widely distant points, they may be looked upon as relics of a former universal state of
things, now preserved only in particular localities; yet without invalidating this general
rule, I think that the facts of the mode of burial I have described, and likewise the rite
of circumcision, existing in the bottom of the Gulf of Carpentaria, and on the south side of
the continent, strongly support the opinion that there once existed water communication between
them.

However this may be, the discovery we had made highly interested the whole party, and suggested
the name of Burial Reach for that part of the river. Knowing, or at least feeling, that we
were narrowly watched by those into whose territories we had penetrated, I did not venture
far inland. In the few miles traversed there was little of interest, except that we felt the
pleasure which almost surpasses that created by beauty of scenery, of traversing a country
totally new to the European. It is astonishing how charming mere plains covered with clumps
of trees appear under such circumstances. But this feeling can be enjoyed but once; for it
is the explorer alone who can either experience or deserve it.

This part of the country, though to all appearance equally level with any other, was higher,
and may perhaps have attained to the elevation of thirty-five feet above the level of the sea.
Over the plains were scattered flocks of beautiful rose-coloured cockatoos, several of which
I shot; they were precisely the same as those on the southern parts of the continent.

Beyond Burial Reach the river separates into two branches, one taking an easterly and the other
a southerly direction; but neither of them, unfortunately, was it at that time in my power
to explore. Here we again, for the second time only, met with a rocky formation: it was of
a red ferruginous character. Our furthest position on the Flinders was in latitude 17 degrees
51 minutes South in a general South by East 1/2 East direction from the entrance, nearly thirty
miles by the distance the boats had traversed.

MOVE DOWN THE RIVER.

After noon observations, the gig moved down the river. On passing the large island, I shot
an animal resembling a water-rat, of large dimensions, particularly expanded across the loins,
with stout hind legs and palmated feet, of a light slate colour and soft fine hair approaching
fur, the colour gradually becoming lighter under the abdomen; the head was flatter than that
of the usual tribe of water-rats, and resembled an otter.*

(*Footnote. There is a species of water-rat inhabiting the coast of Australia, called Hydromys
chrysogaster; but this was the first time we met with anything like it.)

RETURN TO THE SHIP.

It was not until long after dark that we reached the mouth, where, meeting the yawl, both boats
ran out of the river on their return to the ship, distant thirty-three miles. The prevalence
of light winds made it noon before we got on board, when I found that in consequence of the
tides approaching the springs and falling 12 instead of 6 feet, it had been necessary to move
the ship farther off.

During our absence light winds had prevailed; on several days land and seabreezes. The cessation
of strong southerly winds kept the temperature about 60 degrees. Mr. Fitzmaurice had returned
and gave the following account of his examination.

MR. FITZMAURICE'S EXPLORATION.

Commencing at Mr. Forsyth's furthest, he found the southerly trend of the coast change in the
course of nine miles to the eastward, forming a large shoal bay, which at low-water had a mud
flat extending off nearly two miles. The east point of this bay, named Point Tarrant,* I had
seen from the south-east end of Sweers Island, bearing South 17 degrees West eighteen miles.
It is rendered remarkable by a slight rise in the land behind it, forming low mounds or hillocks.
Two miles to the westward Mr. Fitzmaurice discovered an inlet, which he followed a league in
a general south-west direction, when it had in no way lost the promising appearance it possessed
from its breadth at the mouth, which was further increased by the manner in which the bank
was thrown out off it.

(*Footnote. After one of the officers who had shared all the hard work, a practice generally
adopted.)

Nine miles further westward were two other small openings. Mr. Fitzmaurice's exploration terminated
seventeen miles South 56 degrees East from Point Tarrrant, where another inlet was found of
still greater magnitude and importance. The coast between fell back slightly, forming two shallow
bights with the usual low monotonous mangrove shores, and extensive frontage of mud. At the
distance of six and ten miles from Point Tarrant were two other inlets, the latter of which
was large and received Mr. Pasco's name. It was examined for a short distance in a South by
West direction, and presented the usual low banks lined with mangroves. Near the entrance a
native came down to the shore to look at the boat; he was very tall and quite naked, and would
not allow our party to approach.

ANOTHER BOAT EXPEDITION.

Mr. Fitzmaurice reported so favourably of the last opening he discovered, bearing West by South
fifteen miles from the ship, that I determined on making up a party to explore it, while another
expedition, consisting of the yawl and whaleboat, was to examine the coast to the eastward
from Flinders River to Van Diemen's Inlet. My party, including Lieutenant Gore and Messrs.
Forsyth and Dring, left the ship with the gig and the other whaleboat on the evening of the
day we returned from the Flinders.

The prospect that lay before us raised our spirits to the highest; and the weather, clear,
cool, and bracing, could not have been more favourable, the temperature being 60 degrees. The
ripples rolled rapidly, expanding from the boat's bows over the glassy smooth surface of the
water, whilst the men stretched out as if unconscious of the exertion of pulling, every one
of them feeling his share of the excitement. From the western sky the last lingering rays of
the sun shot athwart the wave, turning it, as it were, by the alchemy of light into a flood
of gold. Overhead, the cope of heaven was gradually growing soberer in hue from the withdrawal
of those influences which lately had warmed and brightened it; but in the west a brilliant
halo encircled the declining ruler of the day. In these latitudes the sunset is as brief as
it is beautiful. Night rapidly came on, and presently the masts of the ship could no longer
be discerned, and we were pursuing our way in darkness towards the mouth of the opening.

After vainly endeavouring to get over the bank extending off the mouth of the opening, in the
dark, we anchored the boats outside. The awnings were spread, and the kettle for our evening's
meal was soon hissing over a blazing fire. Of all things tea is the most refreshing after a
day of fatigue; there is nothing that so soon renovates the strength, and cheers the spirits;
and on this occasion especially, we experienced a due portion of its invigorating effects.
Grog was afterwards served out, pipes and cigars were lighted, the jest was uttered, the tale
went round; some fished, though with little success; and the officers busied themselves with
preparations for the morrow's work. But all things must end; the stories at length flagged;
the fishermen grew tired; and getting into our blanket bags, with a hearty good night, we resigned
ourselves, with the exception of the look-out, to the arms of slumber.

EXPLORE AN OPENING.

July 30.

The morning broke with a strong breeze from South-South-East and although the temperature was
not below 52 degrees, we were all shivering with cold. Soon after daylight we entered the opening,
which for three miles was almost straight, in a South by West direction, with a width of two
hundred yards, and a depth of from 2 1/2 to 5 fathoms. The banks were fringed with mangroves,
behind which stretched extensive mud flats, which from being encrusted with salt and glistening
in the sun were mistaken at first for sheets of water.

The inlet now became slightly tortuous, pursuing a general South-West by South direction; but
the width being greater our hopes rose as we proceeded. Eight miles from the mouth two islands
were passed, and two others four miles further on. The breadth at this point was nearly a mile,
but the depth was scarcely two fathoms; one less than we had before found it. The above-mentioned
islets, one of which was of some size, lay at the upper end of a reach, trending south, where
this inlet or river, as we anxiously hoped it would prove to be, divided into two branches,
one continuing in a southerly direction, and the other turning short off to the westward.

EXAMINE THE SOUTHERN BRANCH.

Though the latter had a greater volume of water passing through it than the other, I still,
from the direction and size of the south arm, decided on ascending it first. For some distance
the banks had been less fringed with mangroves, leaving clear patches covered with coarse grass.
The trees on the side of the first reach in the southerly arm were laden with the snowy plumage
of a large flock of cockatoos. After proceeding about five miles further we rested a few hours,
continuing again soon after midnight. As the tides run twelve hours each way, it was necessary
that we should take advantage of the favourable stream, whatever might be the hour, though
this plan kept the men for a very long time together at the oars.

The general direction we pursued was still south, for six miles by the windings of the stream,
which was so reduced in breadth and volume, as to be scarcely a hundred yards wide, and not
a fathom deep. There was now little hope that it would lead into fresh water, although, from
the number of trials that were made, I am sure there was salt water enough drunk to have physicked
a whole village.

APPEARANCE OF THE COUNTRY.

The banks were still of the same monotonous character. In one of the reaches I was fortunate
enough to shoot a specimen of the large wary brown-coloured rail I have before mentioned. From
this, the only one obtained, it has been described as Eulabeornis castaneoventris. It is doubtless
the bird called by the Port Essington natives, Morduggera, the eggs only of which were found
there, the bird itself not having been seen. They were equal in size to those of a guineafowl,
of a dirty white, finely speckled with reddish brown.

Our course now changed to south-west, and as the width and tortuousness began to decrease--a
sure indication that the country was rising--we soon made another six miles. But after this
the boats could no further proceed--the inlet, in short, having become a mere ditch at low-water.
The head of a large alligator was found on the bank near the upper part; where might be seen
an occasional acacia mingled with the mangroves. Behind, the country was very open, consisting
of plains covered with coarse grass, interspersed with patches of dwarf gums. About seven miles
in an East by North direction the country was thickly wooded, and appeared to be a little higher--the
only interruption to the level monotony of the portion of the continent by which we were surrounded.
The soil was of a light brown colour void of sand, and of considerable depth.

Nothing now remained but to retrace our steps and try the other branch; and as our want of
success in this case rather heightened our expectation we hurried back with some rapidity.
It was dark before we reached the point of separation, where the boat's crew regaled themselves
on some large brown hawks, in the absence of better fowl. There was this evening a beautiful
eclipse of the moon. The temperature had again fallen to 60 degrees; at noon it was 87 degrees;
and at four A.M. 52 degrees.

August 1.

As time and tide wait for no man we were obliged to move off at one in the morning. The earth's
shadow having passed over the moon, the pale light of her full orb fell in a silvery stream
on the tortuous reaches, as the waters swelled in silence between the growth of mangroves fringing
the banks.

DISCOVERY OF THE ALBERT.

At the end of three miles in a West by South direction, nearly double by the windings, we passed
an island on the left. The depth at low-water, so far, being nearly 2 fathoms, and the width
about 250 yards, promised well. Water-tasting had now become rather out of fashion. However,
it so happened that one of the whaler's crew put his hand over, and gave us the delightful
news that the stream was quite fresh! A general tasting followed, each being anxious to get
the first draught of the water of our new-found river; and the agreeable intelligence was confirmed.
Of the importance of our discovery there could now no longer be any doubt, and the exhilarating
effect it produced on all was quite magical, every arm stretching out as if the fatigue they
had experienced had suddenly passed away.

There could be little difficulty in finding a name for our new discovery. We had already called
two rivers, explored by the Beagle's officers, the Victoria and the Adelaide; and we were glad
of such an opportunity of again showing our loyalty to Her Majesty, by conferring the name
of her noble consort upon this important stream; it was accordingly christened The Albert.

The boats now glided rapidly onwards, and West by North another mile brought us to three islands,
which we passed on the right; after landing for observations, with the stars Achernar and Aldebaran,
at some earthy cliffs ten feet high on the left bank. The river now wound round a point to
the westward, three-quarters of a mile wide; in the first bend we passed four islands on the
right, with a creek on either side, and towards the end of the next, two more on the left.

CHANGE IN THE VEGETATION.

August 2.

Daylight now burst upon us with tropical rapidity. The banks had assumed a very different appearance;
the monotonous mangroves had given place to gumtrees and acacias, which drooped over the stream,
partly concealing a rich growth of large flags. This change in the character of the foliage
was not only in itself a relief, but evinced that we had at length, in some sort, escaped the
influence of the sea, and that we were in reality penetrating towards the interior of the continent.

Our course was now North-West 1/2 West for a mile and a half, with an increase in the width,
and a depth of nine feet. Here we found the river suddenly turn round to the southward and
eastward, bringing us back within five hundred yards of where we started from, which was one
mile West by South 1/2 South from the morning's observation spot. Brown whistling wood-ducks
now made their appearance, and being unaccustomed to man and his destructive weapons, allowed
us to revel in wildfowl for some days afterwards.

PROCEED UP THE ALBERT.

The morning sun was hailed with delight, as sitting cramped up in a boat, with the unusually
low temperature of 53 degrees made us very chilly, and brought flushing jackets and trousers
into great request, whilst in midday the light clothing natural to the latitude was sufficient.
We found the tides rise here four feet, and both flood and ebb ran from one to two knots. After
following a reach, trending South-East 1/2 East a mile, with a string of islets in the upper
part, our westerly progress became more rapid and direct, and with the exception of one bend
to the northward we made three miles in a West-South-West direction.

But we were once more doomed to be interrupted by the sudden turning of the river short off
to the northward, when it wound round a point a mile long, and a quarter wide, the extremity
of which is low and sandy, a character only this once observed in the Albert; on the opposite
side were cliffs thirty feet high.

NATIVES.

Near the sandy point we observed some fires; and on our return, by crawling up the bank, I
got a peep at a small party of natives engaged intently in digging for the esculent called
warran. As they were few in numbers our abrupt appearance would have too much terrified them
to leave any chance of an interview; and we accordingly did not disturb them, but contented
ourselves with watching their movements for a while. The spectacle was an interesting one.
Both men and women were engaged in delving for their food, whilst a little beyond a few more
were burning the bush, and looking out for game and snakes. It does not often fall to the lot
of the white man to behold the wild people of the earth, engaged in their daily avocations,
completely unconscious that the gaze of a superior class of beings is upon them. We have seen
savages exhibited to us professedly in all the simplicity of the woods; but how can the children
of nature retain their freedom of action and manners under the curious gaze of a civilized
multitude? We may depend upon it that we gather nothing but erroneous ideas from such a display.
If we would understand, truly, what our savage brethren are like, we must penetrate into the
woods and the wilds where they are to be found; we must mingle with them in the exercise of
their domestic avocations; we must see them as they are, in all their excusable degradation;
and not invested with a fictitious dignity, or a theatrical simplicity; we must observe them,
also, unawares, and see how they conduct themselves under the ordinary influences that beset them.

It was with great reluctance that I departed without making our presence known; but I could
not refrain from leaving, at the place where we landed, the perplexing legacy of a few presents.
With what curious anxiety must these people have traced our footmarks, from which alone they
could gather evidence that we belonged to a different race!

After making two miles in a south and nearly three in a west direction, with but few interruptions
from windings, we opened a splendid sheet of water, trending South-West 1/2 South. A mile back
I had found, in a crooked reach, some native huts, built of sticks and neatly plastered over,
with doors so narrow that none of our broad-shouldered fellows could enter.

At this place we saw the last whistling-ducks on our way up; further on, other species, to
be hereafter mentioned, were found. A large alligator also afforded us sport, although we did
not secure him.

PICTURESQUE SCENERY.

The country was gradually becoming perceptibly higher, and the scenery extremely picturesque.
Tall palm-trees and bamboos were now to be seen among the rich foliage on the lower slope of
the banks, that rose here to an elevation of fifty feet, and were much intersected with watercourses.
Onwards we hurried; the influence of the tide being scarcely felt, and the river preserving
its South-West 1/2 South direction, with a width of two hundred yards, and a depth of two fathoms
and a half. At the end of three miles no change was perceptible, and we began to congratulate
ourselves on, at last, having found a stream that would carry the boats far towards the point
it was always the height of my ambition to reach, the centre of the continent.

HOPE REACH.

To this part of the Albert that had given rise to such expectations we gave the name of Hope
Reach. A little higher up we landed on the right bank to cook a meal and examine the country.
I shall here attempt, with the aid of Lieutenant Gore's sketch,* to give the reader some idea
of the beauty of the scene that now presented itself to our anxious gaze.

(*Footnote. See the view annexed.)

It was in truth as glorious a prospect as could greet the eye. A magnificent sheet of water
lay before us in one unbroken expanse, resembling a smooth translucent lake. Its gentle repose
harmonized exquisitely with the slender motionless boughs of the drooping gums, palms, and
acacias, that clustered on the banks, and dipped their feathery foliage in the limpid stream,
that like a polished mirror bore, within its bosom, the image of the graceful vegetation by
which it was bordered. The report of our guns, as they dealt destruction among the quails that
here abounded, rolled for the first time along the waters of the Albert, breaking in on the
hush of stillness that appeared to reign over all like the presence of a spirit. The country
that stretched away from either bank was an extensive plain, covered with long coarse grass,
above which was occasionally seen the head of a kangaroo, listening, with its acute ear, for
our approach.

No high land presented itself in any direction, and the eye was only relieved by the growth
of trees and shrubs that marked the line of the watercourses, the natural drains of the country,
which had formed deep channels through the banks. The gumtrees, near the river, were of considerable
size, though small on the plains. A light kind of mould of great depth, without a particle
of stone of any kind, was the character of the soil.

BIRDS AND FISHES.

One of the boats tried the hooks and lines during our rambles over the country, and from the
number of catfish and a dark kind of bream that was caught, we are enabled to state that this
part of the Albert abounds with them. Besides quails, pigeons and a beautiful finch, before
seen on the Victoria, are to be numbered among the land birds. Those of the water consisted
of large brown, and small grey ducks, spoonbills, black and white geese, and a dark blue kind
of rail, bearing a great resemblance to the English moor-fowl, that afforded us excellent sport,
as they flew out in great numbers from the long flags that border the banks on the upper part
of Hope Reach. We did not see any black swans, neither were they noticed by us on the north-west
coast. I, myself, believe they are not to be found to the northward of latitude 27 degrees
0 minutes South. This part of the river is subject to a tidal influence, producing a slight
rise, which takes place about four hours after the time of high-water at the mouth.

In our eagerness to proceed we moved off rapidly up the river, after a hasty meal. All beyond
was mystery; and it seemed that we were destined to remain long in suspense; for the day soon
closed in, leaving only the pale light of the moon to guide us. The depth continued regular,
at two and a half fathoms, and the width two hundred yards. We hastened onwards; the night
scenery being almost more beautiful than the day. The heavens seemed more deep, the water more
glittering, the trees more graceful and feathery; and here and there a tall palm reared its
thin and spectral form above the dense foliage through which the moonlight broke at intervals,
and fell, as it were, in showers of silver on the placid waters.

Nearly seven miles had been traversed in the same South-West 1/2 South direction, when our
hopes of proceeding further were suddenly for a time destroyed, by the appearance of a dense
woody mass ahead. A little further on, the moon peering through the matted foliage showed one
branch of the river turning off to the southward, whilst another, in the mouth of which we
found ourselves, trended west. The lead giving the great depth of six fathoms, we were induced
to follow the latter. Utter darkness soon surrounded us; the trees, on either side, over-shadowing
the river, which in this branch was not eighty yards wide.

PROGRESS IMPEDED.

Our progress, also, at length began to be impeded by fallen or sunken trees, which not only
rendered the ascent dangerous, but at the end of about two miles fairly brought us to a standstill,
and forbade our further advance. This detention was a bitter disappointment to us all, and
we crept into our blanket-bags with disgust, but with the hope that in the morning a passage
might still be found.

August 4.

Daylight brought no better hopes of our taking the boats higher up by this branch, as a succession
of large trees lay across it a quarter of a mile above. It was a gloomy corner we had got into,
and so sheltered that it seemed as though a breath of wind had never swept through it; the
leaves of the low-spreading palms that drooped over the water, damp with the morning dew, had
unbroken edges, as if an eternal quietude had pervaded the spot.

BEAUTY OF THE LANDSCAPE.

This triste appearance wore off as the sun rose, and the scenery under his smiles was soon
clothed with beauty. Trees with every variety of foliage overhung each other, connected, as
it were, by bowers of creepers depending in festoons and concealing odd-shaped fragments of
fallen timber, which here and there reared their blackened heads out of the water, the unruffled
smoothness of which was occasionally disturbed by the splash of some wildfowl, and chequered
with alternate spots of gold and gloom by the sun's rays, as they pierced through the dense
surrounding foliage.

Returning, we entered the south branch; the opening of which was almost equal in beauty, as
the reader will perceive from the view in the beginning of the first volume; but we were again
stopped by fallen trees after proceeding about a mile and a half.

Here we observed driftwood and rushes in the trees, fifteen feet above our heads. It was now
quite clear that all hopes of water carriage towards the interior were at an end. The boats
were at this time above fifty miles from the entrance, and our provisions only admitting of
the remainder of this day being spent in land exploration, a party was immediately selected
for this service.

LAND EXCURSION.

Following up a short woody valley, on reaching the summit of the level a view burst upon me,
the nature of which the reader may learn from the accompanying plate. A vast boundless plain
lay before us, here and there dotted over with woodland isles. Whilst taking the bearings of
one of these to guide us in the direction we were to steer, I sent a man up a tree to have
a further view; but nothing beyond an extension of the plain was to be seen. The river could
be traced to the southward by a waving line of green trees; the latter were larger at this
spot than in any other part, and consisted of tall palms, and three kinds of gums. No trace
of the western branch could be discovered.

Time being, as I have before said, very precious, we moved off in a South-South-East direction,
at the rate of almost four miles an hour, in spite of the long coarse grass lying on the ground
and entangling our legs.

THE PLAINS OF PROMISE.

The soil* was still a light-coloured mould of great depth, and according to one so well qualified
to judge as Sir W. Hooker, who kindly examined some that I brought to England, is of a rich
quality, confirming the opinion I entertained of it, which suggested for this part of the continent,
the name of The Plains of Promise.

(*Footnote. My immediate visit to Port Essington afforded me an opportunity of comparing the
qualities of the two soils; and the result was that the richest land I saw there, in spite
of the aid of manure, etc. was very inferior to that on the Plains of Promise.)

We were now once more stepping out over a terra incognita; and though no alpine features greeted
our eyes as they wandered eagerly over the vast level, all was clothed with the charm of novelty.
The feelings of delight which are naturally aroused in those whose feet for the first time
press a new and rich country, and which I have so often before endeavoured in vain to express,
burst forth on this occasion with renewed intensity.

At the end of nearly four miles we turned off to the westward for a rise at a short distance,
concealing the line of trees that marked the course of the river, from which we had been gradually
receding. We found it to be on the opposite side of a watercourse twenty-five feet deep. From
its summit we got a view of the country to the south-west, over the growth of trees at the
margin of the river.*

(*Footnote. See the view annexed. )

On this rise we met an emu, which, after several bad shots, got away from the whole of us.
This, in some measure was owing to our over-eagerness, as the bird was at first inclined to
approach. Proceeding a little farther we observed a small lake bearing north half a mile. Attracted
by the beauty of the vernal tints on its borders we went to taste the waters. On the same refreshing
errand was a luckless beautiful slate-coloured egret, which Mr. Gore shot. Holding our west
course we made the river at the end of another mile. Its size was reduced to a mere rivulet;
being scarcely fifteen yards wide, with a depth of five feet. Yet it had greater velocity than
we had before observed, running at the rate of a mile an hour, a clear babbling brook, over
which, acacias and drooping gums formed a leafy tunnel; its course was still from the south.

HALT THE PARTY AND PROCEED ALONE.

Whilst the rest of the party halted I proceeded, with the freshest man,* in a southerly direction;
urged on by what was, perhaps, now the unjustifiable hope of discovering some distant point
rising above the far horizon as a definite result and reward of my exploration. It seemed,
however, almost impossible that this same wearisome monotony could long continue; and I experienced
much of that painful depressing excitement which is created by a series of similar impressions
when we are longing for variety.

(*Footnote. A marine, of the name of John Brown, possessing great powers of endurance. He died
in 1845, in a situation I got him under the Trinity House, on his obtaining a pension for long
servitude.)

We soon gained almost another two miles, when I availed myself of the opportunity to satisfy
a second time my ambition of outstripping my companions in approaching towards that land of
mystery, Central Australia. Desiring Brown to make the river abreast, I ran a short distance
further, when I again met the Albert, flowing on as before, with undiminished size. Even this
short distance was something to gain in a new and untrodden country.

The line of verdure still pointed out the southerly course of the river across the endless
plain; and it became natural to speculate on its source or origin; whether it was the drainage
of a swamp, or the outlet of some lagoon, fed by the Cordillera to the eastward. But to speculation
alone was I reduced, it not being permitted me to clear up this point. All I could do was to
give one long lingering look to the southward before I returned. In that direction, however,
no curling smoke denoted the presence of the savage; all was lonely and still; and yet even
in these deserted plains, equally wanting in the redundance of animal, as in the luxuriance
of vegetable life, I could discover the rudiments of future prosperity, and ample justification
of the name which I had bestowed upon them. I gazed around, despite my personal disappointment,
with feelings of hopeful gratitude to Him who had spread out so fair a dwelling place for his
creatures; and could not refrain from breathing a prayer that ere long the now level horizon
would be broken by a succession of tapering spires rising from the many christian hamlets that
must ultimately stud this country, and pointing through the calm depths of the intensely blue
and gloriously bright skies of Tropical Australia, to a still calmer and brighter and more
glorious region beyond, to which all our sublimest aspirations tend, and where all our holiest
desires may be satisfied.

The recent formation of this part of the country was very striking. We met no rocks during
our walk; a porphyritic pebble or two being the only stones noticed; they were flattened, evidently
showing that the water by which they were carried had a slow motion, which supports the view
I have put forward in an early page of this volume, with reference to the gradual northerly
discharge of the accumulated waters of Central Australia.

EXPLORATION OF THE INTERIOR.

My position was in latitude 17 degrees 58 1/2 minutes South longitude 7 degrees 12 1/2 East
of Port Essington, or 139 degrees 25 minutes East of Greenwich; and within four hundred miles
from the centre of the continent. What an admirable point of departure for exploring the interior!
A few camels, with skins for conveying water, would be the means of effecting this great end
in a very short time. In one month these ships of the desert, as they have been appropriately
called, might accomplish, at a trifling expense, that which has been attempted in vain by the
outlay of so much money. When we consider that Australia is our own continent, and that now,
after sixty years of occupation, we are in total ignorance of the interior, though thousands
are annually spent in geographical research, it seems not unreasonable to expect that so important
a question should at length be set at rest.

RETURN DOWN THE ALBERT.

In the whole continent there exists no point of departure to be compared with the head of the
Albert. The expedition should, as I have before remarked, go to Investigator Road, fulfilling
my prediction of the ultimate importance of that port, which lies only twenty-seven miles North-North-West
from the entrance. Here the flat-bottomed boats, taken out in frame, for the purpose of carrying
up the camels, should be put together, and towed from thence to the river.

A shout from Brown, who, alarmed at my lengthened absence, had come in search of me, roused
me from the reverie in which I was indulging, and which had carried me rolling along on the
back of a camel, girded round with an anti-pleurisy belt, over many miles of the new lands
of Australia. Returning with him I rejoined the rest of the party, and we all moved back in
the silence that usually succeeds great excitement, towards the boats. Mr. Forsyth having made
the necessary observations for latitude, we were soon following the downward course of the Albert.

KANGAROO POINT.

We reached the mouth before daylight on the 6th. This was the coldest morning we had experienced;
the thermometer being at 51 degrees with a strong breeze from South-South-East, which rendered
somewhat dangerous the task of collecting the requisite soundings on the bar at the mouth;
the gig being once or twice nearly half filled in doing so. Behind the eastern entrance point,
was seen a large light-coloured kangaroo, which, for want of a better, afforded us a name.
Our observations refer to this spot, Kangaroo Point, which they place in latitude 17 degrees
35 minutes 10 seconds South and longitude 7 degrees 35 minutes 50 seconds East of Port Essington.
Instead of the usual mangrove shore, the coast to the eastward was sandy; but the most remarkable
feature, hereabouts, is a clump of tall mangroves, towering over their fellow evergreens, close
to the western entrance point. They are called in the chart the High Trees of Flinders, having
been noticed by that celebrated navigator whilst passing at a distance from the coast. Bearing
South-West 1/2 South they guide a ship to the bar, which can only be taken at high-water springs,
when the depth averages eleven feet.* When the eastern part of this clump of trees bears South
45 degrees West, and Kangaroo Point South 10 degrees West the bar will have been passed, and
the depth, at the same time of tide, will be seventeen feet; when the bearing of Kangaroo Point,
given, leads up the channel, which deepens in a quarter of a mile to twenty-three and soon
after to thirty feet. The impetus given to the water, from the first reach of the Albert, being
straight, forces a channel of two miles in extent; with a width of nearly a quarter of a mile,
growing gradually shallower towards the outer part, and, ultimately, becoming lost in the great
flat fronting the shore, which is thrown out in proportion to the length of the channel, beyond
which the bar extends for above a mile. Part of its inner side, however, is intersected by
a narrow channel of thirteen and seventeen feet; the guide through which, is the eastern edge
of the clump of trees before mentioned, bearing South 45 degrees West. The Albert is navigable,
for vessels of a draught suited to the bar, thirteen miles; and within five of where the water
is fresh.

(*Footnote. The tides in the head of the Gulf of Carpentaria appear to be a compound of many
others, obliterating the common daily difference, and producing only one tide in 24 hours.
The direction of the flood stream commences at South-South-East, changing gradually to South-South-West
as it terminates; that of the ebb changes from North-West to North-North-East. The strength
of each is from a quarter to one knot. The rise at springs is from 9 to 12 feet, and at neaps
from 3 to 8 feet.)

After observing the latitude, we took advantage of the afternoon's lull to make the best of
our way to the ship, which we met underweigh, running down towards us; Mr. Parker, the master,
having become anxious at our lengthened absence.

In the evening and next morning, we got more soundings off the mouth of the river; and found
that there was only six feet at low-water springs, a mile and a quarter outside the bar. We
afterwards carried a line along the south-eastern shore of the gulf; and at noon, on the 9th,
anchored off Van Diemen's Inlet, where I had arranged to meet Mr. Fitzmaurice's party.

ACCIDENT TO MR. FITZMAURICE.

The whaleboat was soon seen hastening from the shore without the yawl, which made us suspect
all was not right; and I was much distressed to hear that Mr. Fitzmaurice had been seriously
wounded in the ankle by the discharge of a gun which had gone off within a few yards of it.
Mr. Bynoe went on shore immediately to assist in bringing him on board. The accident having
happened several days ago, and the whole charge of shot being buried in his foot, his sufferings
were intense. It was thought for some time that amputation would be necessary; but though this
was not the case, he was maimed for life; for which, in some measure, he has been compensated
by promotion and a pension. By this melancholy accident the service sustained a great loss,
which was at no time felt more than when it occurred.

COMPLETION OF THE SURVEY OF SOUTH SHORE OF THE GULF.

Mr. Fitzmaurice had fortunately, before he was disabled, completed his examination of the coast
between the Flinders and Van Diemen's Inlet, with his usual praiseworthy activity. On leaving
the former he found that the shore trended North 47 degrees East, with a large inlet at the
end of ten miles. This was only examined a short distance in a south direction; but from the
bank being thrown out six miles from its mouth, with a channel nearly halfway through, it evidently
disembogues a large volume of water, and we may reasonably infer it to be a river. It is named
in the chart Bynoe's Inlet. Seven miles beyond was another inlet, with a sandy beach extending
for two miles to the south-west of it. Five miles further, the trend of the coast changed to
North 4 degrees East, continuing almost straight in that direction to Van Diemen's Inlet, distant
twenty-five miles; and, with the exception of the first five, is sandy throughout. Thirteen
miles from Van Diemen's Inlet is an opening of some magnitude, near the south entrance point
of which are ponds of fresh water. Two and four miles south of it were small openings; and
two and seven miles north of it, two others.

During his excursion Mr. Fitzmaurice had killed one of the rare species of kangaroo, seen for
the first time by us at King Sound, called Macropus unguifer; this was a somewhat important
discovery, as it showed the extent to which the animal is diffused over the continent. I may
here mention, that the night before we reached Van Diemen's Inlet a flight of rose-coloured
cockatoos,* several of which were caught and kept alive for some time, alighted on the rigging.

(*Footnote. Cacatua eos.)

Thus terminated our exploration of the southern shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria, nearly two
hundred miles of which had been minutely examined in the boats.* Twenty-six inlets had been
discovered, of which two proved to be rivers, whilst three more were nearly as promising. That
all the others may contain fresh water in the rainy season there is every reason for supposing,
from the fact of deep channels being found in their banks; from what I have already observed
regarding the water being less salt towards the heads at low tides; and from the report we
afterwards heard at Port Essington that Malay proas occasionally visit the southern shores
of the Gulf, and fill fresh water from alongside, some distance off the land. If we receive
this statement as correct, we must suppose that at certain seasons the discharge from the various
inlets and rivers we discovered is sufficiently powerful to force back the great body of seawater,
as is the case at the embouchures of many large rivers.

(*Footnote. As the reader will perceive by a glance at the chart accompanying this work.)

The general appearance of the head of the Gulf is that of a low mangrove shore, between ten
and thirty feet high, over which the interior is not visible from the offing.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE CLIMATE AND WINDS IN THE GULF.

During our visit to this part of the continent we found the climate well suited for Europeans;
but what it might be in the middle of the north-west monsoon we had no opportunity of ascertaining.
At its commencement in the month of November, Flinders found the thermometer to range on board
between 81 and 90 degrees; but on shore, he says, that in the course of the day it might have
been about seven degrees higher; the temperature, however, being alleviated by constant breezes
either from sea or land, it was seldom oppressive. In July, as I have already stated, the thermometer,
on one occasion, at 5 A.M., was down to 51 degrees; and on another, at noon, up to 87 degrees,
being, in the first instance, six degrees lower than it was on board, and in the second, seven
degrees higher, which gave an excess in the shore range of thirteen degrees. Generally on the
land it was below 62 degrees before 7 A.M. and after 6 P.M. The range of the barometer in November
was from 29.70 to 30.06; whilst with us, in July, its maximum height was 30.08, and minimum
30.02; the lowest being in both seasons with winds from the land, coinciding with what had
been observed on other parts of the continent, that winds from the sea raise the mercury, and
those from the land depress it.

The winds in July were fresh from South to South-East for about two days before and after the
change in the moon. They began at midnight, increasing to almost a strong breeze between five
and six in the morning, and dying away again towards noon, when a calm of five hours duration
succeeded; at other times light land and seabreezes prevailed.

It will appear from this description of the winds in the Gulf of Carpentaria that they bear
a great similarity to those experienced at the same season on the North-West coast, near Depuch
Island; and the circumstance of the temperature being lowest when they were strongest from
the land is also the same. This was there supposed to have been occasioned by the great radiation
of heat from the land over which they blew; but as the country at the head of the Gulf of Carpentaria
is not of a cold clayey nature, the idea is naturally suggested that there must be a great
extent of swampy ground in the interior, which strengthens the opinion I have before expressed.

SUPPOSED ISLANDS.

After hoisting in the boats we shaped a course along the eastern shore of the Gulf towards
Booby Island. Our being obliged to return thither, for a chronometric departure prevented our
examining the middle of the upper part of the Gulf, where, according to certain vague reports,
there exist islands. It is stated, for example, that after the south-west monsoon has set in
strongly, numbers of coconuts are thrown on the north-west shore of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
In the year 1839, moreover, a small proa was driven off the coast of Timor Laut during the
north-west monsoon. The wind blowing hard drifted them to the South-East for three days and
three nights, when they came to a low island, with no traces of inhabitants, and abounding
in coconut trees, upon the fruit of which they lived until the monsoon changed, when they sailed
back to Timor Laut. Flinders, when off Batavia River, on the North-East side of the Gulf, was
led to suppose that an island existed to seaward of him, from seeing some flocks of geese coming
from that direction one morning. Wilson, also, in his Voyage round the World, speaks of the
Macassar people reporting an island in the Gulf of Carpentaria, with sandalwood growing on it.

EXAMINE ENDEAVOUR STRAIT.

Soon after daylight on the 13th, we anchored under Booby Island,* the flagstaff bearing East-South-East
half a mile to the south. The weather looked unusually threatening the previous night. Between
the observations for rating the chronometers I fulfilled my intention of making a cursory examination
of the entrance of Endeavour Strait, and anchored a mile and three quarters off the North Wallis
Island, bearing South 23 degrees East. It is a conical rocky isle, upwards of 70 feet high,
of a coarse sandstone formation; an extensive coral reef fronts it on all sides, except the
north. The result of a night's observations on shore placed the summit in latitude 10 degrees
51 minutes 25 seconds South; the true bearing of Booby Island was North 22 degrees 13 minutes
West. The natives appear to make a cemetery of this island; for on a small sandy point on the
north side we found a large grave, covered with turtle backs, and containing several skeletons.
This is a very different mode of burial from that noticed in Flinders River.

(*Footnote. The result of the whole of our observations at this island are as follows: Latitude
of the west point 10 degrees 36 minutes 42 seconds South, longitude, 141 degrees 57 minutes
45 seconds East; variation, 7 degrees 0 minutes East. The tides are equally strange here and
in Endeavour Strait; the stream setting to the westward (West-South-West to West-North-West)
from nineteen to twenty hours, and to the northward and eastward (North to North-East) only
from four to five hours. The latter stream commences about an hour before high-water, which
takes place at 4.30, on the full and change days, when the rise at springs is 12 feet, and
at neaps 7; the length of flood and ebb is nearly six hours.)

Leaving our anchorage, we steered West 1/4 North, six miles, in soundings of 6 and 7 fathoms.
We then crossed in 4 1/2 and 5 fathoms, North Wallis Island bearing South 75 minutes East,
a ridge which appeared to be an elbow of the spit extending off the latter, and forming the
south side of the channel. Continuing the same course, the depth soon increased to 6 and 7
fathoms. This was highly satisfactory, as it proved there was water for the largest vessels.*
In the afternoon we anchored again under Booby Island.**

(*Footnote. Captain Blackwood's recent survey of this Strait confirms my opinion of its being
the best passage through this part of Torres Strait.)

(**Footnote. The following is the extract from the game book referred to in a former page:
Booby Island (June and August) 145 quails, 18 pigeons, 12 rails, of two kinds, 3 doves; Van
Diemen's Inlet (July) 14 doves, 6 pigeons, 1 native companion; Bountiful Island (July) 8 quails,
11 doves, 1 pheasant, 3 plovers, 4 white cockatoos; Sweers Island (July) 151 quails, 87 doves,
20 pigeons, 3 pheasants, 8 white and 2 black cockatoos, 5 spurwing plovers; Disaster Inlet
(July) 36 ducks, 9 white cockatoos, 2 native companions, 1 green ibis; on the coast (July)
10 curlews and plovers; Flinders River (July) 10 ducks, 5 rose-coloured cockatoos, 4 pigeons,
3 spurwing plovers, 1 rail of a new species, 1 white ibis, 1 spoonbill; Albert River (August)
20 ducks, 4 large water rails, 2 pheasants; between Van Diemen's Inlet and Flinders' River
(August) 12 cockatoos, 1 kangaroo (Macropus unguifer); Wallis Isles (August) 6 quails, 6 doves,
1 pigeon.)

LOOK FOR CAPE WESSEL.

On the evening of the next day, the 17th, we weighed, and steered West by South across the
Gulf; and in the afternoon of the 18th passed eleven miles from Cape Wessel, according to the
position assigned to it in the chart: but as the weather was tolerably clear, and nothing was
seen of it, there appeared to be some truth in the report I had previously heard of its being
to the southward of the position given to it.

The wind freshened by midnight, and, as usual, became more southerly, that is to say, South-South-East,
whilst during the day it was generally East-South-East and East, and very much lighter. The
current was steady at North-West by West from half a knot to three-quarters per hour, maintaining
about the same direction and strength as in 1839. On the evening of the 19th we crossed the
meridian of the centre of New Year Island, which our observations placed in 8 degrees 52 minutes
west of Booby Island, one mile less than Flinders.

RETURN TO PORT ESSINGTON.

It was late in the afternoon of the 20th before we reached an anchorage off the settlement
of Victoria, where we met Captain Stanley, who had just returned in the Britomart from a cruise
in the Arafura Sea, of which the reader will find an interesting account, from his own pen,
in the following chapter.

SAIL FOR DOBBO.

We sailed from Port Essington on the 19th of June, and found a very heavy confused sea running
outside, which made the topsides leak so much that we were obliged to have recourse to the
pump every hour. On the second day we made the south end of the Arrou Islands, the latitude
of which agrees with the position assigned to it in the Admiralty Chart. On attempting to close
the land, which is very low, we shoaled the water suddenly from 15 to 6 fathoms, when at some
distance from the shore, and from the heavy sea running, and the appearance of the land, I
did not think it prudent to stand in closer, but steered to the northward towards Dobbo. At
sunset we anchored off the village of Maykor, situated at the entrance of a small inlet, and
had a visit from an old man who had been lately appointed Orangtua by the Captain of a Dutch
frigate, that had touched on the coast. He was very dirty, talked a great deal, and imbibed
a considerable quantity of brandy and arrack. We allowed him to remain on board till daylight,
when he returned to his village, leaving one of his boat's crew behind to pilot us round to Dobbo.

After leaving Maykor, we had very deep water until we came abreast the island of Babi, off
which a shoal extends to the eastward two miles. We crossed the end of it in 8 fathoms, and
immediately afterwards deepened our water to 15; and did not again strike soundings until we
were close off the old Dutch fort, at the entrance of Dobbo harbour. Here we anchored, as I
wished to see the native village close to it.

The anchor was hardly let go, when the monotonous sound of a tom-tom gave notice of the approach
of some chief; and shortly afterwards, a boat, carrying a huge Dutch flag, was seen pulling
towards the brig, with a great many round-bladed paddles.

VISIT FROM THE SCHOOLMASTER.

Seated in state, in the stern sheets, was an old man dressed in a long black serge coat and
trousers, with a white shirt and handkerchief. His servant who sat behind him, attempted to
protect him from a heavy shower by holding over his head, with very great care, an old Chinese
umbrella that leaked like a sieve.

The old man, on coming on board, introduced himself as the schoolmaster of the village, and
gave us a pressing invitation to land and inspect the church, of which he seemed to be very
proud. A younger man, who accompanied him, he introduced as the Orang kaya of the village.
As the rain still continued, I invited them into the cabin, where they were much delighted
at all they saw; and, during the conference, they expressed much surprise at being told that
all Englishmen were Christians. The chief of Wakan, an island which forms the other side of
the entrance to Dobbo harbour, also favoured us with a visit. He came to request us to assist
him in waging war against the chief of a neighbouring island, and did not at all understand
our refusing his petition.

CHURCH AT DOBBO.

As soon as the rain cleared off, our visitors landed, and Mr. Earl and myself soon followed
them to their village, where they were all drawn up to receive us, and saluted us with one
musket. We were conducted to the village in state, and immediately taken to see the church,
which had been a nice building, capable of holding all the inhabitants of the place; but it
had latterly been allowed to get very much out of repair. In the font they had placed a saucer
containing a small coin, as a hint that we should contribute something towards the restoration
of the church, which was not thrown away, and most probably led to the largest donation the
church had received for some time. After inspecting the church and village, we walked for some
distance along the beach, and saw a great many parrots, parakeets, and large wood-pigeons,
of varied and beautiful plumage, flying amongst the splendid kanari* trees, which, from all
accounts, afford most valuable timber for ship-building.

(*Footnote. Cannarium commune.)

June 23.

Mr. Earl and myself visited the village of Dobbo. We found it very little changed since our
last visit. The trading vessels had all sailed, but the village was occupied by a few Dutch
traders from Macassar, some dozen Chinese, and about 300 Bughis and Macassars; the greater
portion of whom were preparing to visit the eastern side of the group to collect the produce
for the vessels expected to arrive at the setting-in of the westerly monsoon.

The only sea-going vessels in the harbour were two large Macassar proas and a Ceramese junk;
which were to sail in a few days.

Whilst I was employed, making astronomical observations to determine the position of the point,
Mr. Earl obtained considerable information from the traders.

TRADE OF THE ARROU ISLANDS.

The commerce of these islands appears to have increased considerably of late years, four or
five ships and brigs, with a number of Macassar and Bughis proas, whose united crews were said
to have amounted to 5,000 persons, having sailed with cargoes about two months previous to
our visit.

The produce of the Arrou Islands consists chiefly of pearls, mother-of-pearl shell, tortoise-shell,
birds of paradise, and Trepang; but the trade of Dobbo is not dependent on the productions
of the Arrou Islands alone. The Bughis proas import large quantities of British calico, iron,
hardware, muskets, gunpowder, etc. from Singapore, to obtain which Dobbo is visited by the
natives of Ceram, Buru, New Guinea, and of all the adjacent islands, it being the only spot
in this part of the world where British manufactures can at present be procured. The articles
brought for sale from New Guinea consist of nutmegs, tortoise and mother-of-pearl shell, ambergris,
birds-of-paradise, ebony, clove, and Massay bark, rosamala (an odoriferous wood) and Kayu-buku,
a wood much prized for cabinet-work. British calicoes and iron are the principal articles taken
in exchange for these by the proas from New Guinea.

The closeness with which the native traders conceal their commercial transactions, even from
each other, rendered it impossible for me to learn the amount of exports and imports. Each
Bughis proa imports to the amount of from 10,000 to 30,000 dollars, and at least one half of
her cargo consists of British goods. Taking the yearly average of thirty proas, and the amount
of her import cargo at the lowest above stated, this will give 150,000 dollars, or 32,500 pounds
sterling, as the amount of British goods imported annually into Dobbo. This appears a large
amount; but it will be found, upon examination, that it is rather under than above the actual
value. In fact, the greater portion of our cotton manufactures sold at Singapore is consumed
in the less civilized parts of the Indian Archipelago, where the natives prefer cheap goods
and gaudy patterns; while the people of Java, Celebes, etc. prefer their own or Indian manufactures,
which, although dearer, are far more durable than ours.

The value of a return cargo of a Bughis proa at Singapore is about 200 per cent on the outlay.
Of the timber of the Arrou Islands there are several varieties, highly spoken of by the Bughis
(who build and repair their proas there) for their durability, and the ease with which they
are worked. Although of immense size, the trees are almost invariably sound; and as they can
be felled within a few yards of the beach, it is not impossible that at some future period
timber may form a valuable article of export.

The western islands of this group are very thinly inhabited. Wamma, though nearly forty miles
in circumference, contains only between 200 and 300 inhabitants, who are scattered along the
coast in little villages, each containing about half a dozen houses. The eastern islands are
said to be more thickly inhabited. The natives appear to be a harmless race; and though their
country is so rich in produce, the greater portion are in a state of poverty. This is to be
attributed to the immoderate use of spirituous liquors, large quantities of which are brought
by the traders from Java and Macassar. From their language and personal appearance, the natives
appear to be a mixture between the Malayan race and the Polynesian negro.

PRODUCTIONS OF THE ISLANDS.

We also learnt that the emu and a small species of the kangaroo are found in the islands. From
the varieties of birds, insects, butterflies, and parasitical plants, etc. that we saw, these
islands promise a rich field to the naturalist and botanist.

We were shown some of the pearls that had been collected, some of which were very large, and
highly prized by the Chinese; though from their irregular form and golden hue, they would not
suit the European market. The smaller pearls, about the size of Number 1 shot, were very perfect
in figure but tinged with colour.

As soon as the observations were concluded we returned on board, and got underway to proceed
to the Ki Islands. On the 25th we passed the north end of the Great Ki, and along its western
side, which appeared to be as steep as the eastern, and to afford no anchorage whatever. At
2 P.M. we were off the Lesser Ki, and anchored nearly in our old berth, in 14 fathoms. As soon
as the brig was secured, Mr. Hill and myself commenced a survey of the harbour, with which
we were rather disappointed, as on further examination the water proved to be too deep for
convenient anchorage.

NATIVES ON BOARD.

June 27.

The natives came on board in great numbers, bringing abundance of yams, coconuts, bananas,
pumpkins, and a few fowls. As our usual hour for divine service approached, Mr. Earl explained
to them what we were going to do, and that they must go on shore till we had finished; but
the chiefs requested so earnestly to be allowed to remain, that I permitted them to do so,
upon the condition that they would be quite silent during the service. This they promised,
and seating themselves on the hammock nettings all round the ship, remained the whole time
most quiet and attentive spectators of the scene before them, which they seemed to understand
and appreciate perfectly.

In the afternoon we landed, and accompanied by one of the chiefs, walked into the interior
of the island for some distance. The country was very low, and covered with an impenetrable
jungle, through which a path had been cut with considerable care; on each side, we noticed
some patches of ground surrounded by stone walls, very neatly constructed. Our guide informed
us that they had been farms, but the soil was exhausted. As only the underwood had been cleared
away, the crop must have been produced beneath the shade of the large trees, through which
the rays of the sun could scarcely penetrate. At Ki Doulan we saw nothing new. The inhabitants
had sold nearly all their canoes to the Bughis, who had touched here on their return from Arrou
to their own country.

THE BANDA GROUP.

June 29.

As soon as our survey was finished, we sailed for Banda, where I hoped to find some vessel
in which our shipwrecked passengers* might find their way to a more civilized part of the world.

(*Footnote. Crew of the Montreal, lost in Torres Strait, who reached Port Essington in their
boats.)

June 30.

At 8 A.M. we saw Banda, and at 11 entered the harbour; which is formed between the two islands
of Great Banda and Banda Neira; and were here advised by the Resident to take the seamen on
to Amboyna; where the papers requisite for their embarkation, in a Dutch merchant vessel, could
be procured with less difficulty.

The Banda group consists of three large islands and two smaller ones. The nutmegs, which form
the only export of the place, are all grown upon Great Banda, the largest of the three islands.
It averages 500 feet in height, and is luxuriantly wooded.

BANDA NEIRA.

Banda Neira, the next in point of size, is the residence of the government officers, the troops,
and the convicts. It is not so high as Great Banda, and does not produce a single nutmeg. The
third island is called the Gounung Api, or Burning Mountain; and is, as its name implies, a
volcano, from which more or less smoke, impregnated with sulphur, is constantly issuing; during
the westerly monsoon, this smoke is blown over the town, which it renders very unhealthy. One
of the small islands is inhabited entirely by lepers, who are sent there to prevent the disease
from spreading among the inhabitants.

Banda is used as a penal settlement by the Dutch Government, and, at the period of our visit,
there were from 3000 to 4000 convicts, guarded by about 300 soldiers, most of whom were natives
of Celebes and Amboyna, being commanded by European officers. The town of Banda is clean, and
contains, besides the houses of the Government officers, ample storehouses for the reception
of the nutmegs grown upon Great Banda; together with very commodious barracks for the troops,
and an airy and well appointed hospital. In addition to the Government officers and troops,
a considerable number of Chinese have settled in Banda Neira. They reside in a part of the
town by themselves; and some of them, judging from the appearance of their houses, seem to
be prospering in the world.

The harbour is well sheltered in both monsoons, and is easy of access, but it is closed against
foreign merchant vessels.* We found two merchant vessels under Dutch colours, at anchor; one
was commanded by an Englishman, and the other, the property of a rich Chinaman living in Banda,
by an old friend, who piloted us last year into Dobbo Harbour.

(*Footnote. A shoal extends from Great Banda towards the Gounung Api, leaving a deep passage
of not more than a quarter of a mile wide. Upon this shoal, a considerable portion of which
is dry at low-water, extensive bamboo fish-weirs are erected, which seem to be very productive.
The natives also use fish-pots formed of bamboo, resembling in principle the common drum-net,
which they leave down in shoal water during the night, and generally find a good supply in
the morning. On another part of the shoal we observed a number of large stones, which are said
to have been projected from the volcano, during a violent eruption some years ago.)

ADVENTURES OF A JAVANESE.

His history was a strange one. He was a half-caste, born in Java, who, after various adventures
in different parts of the world, had been pressed into our naval service, and served some time
on board a man-of-war, where he learned the English language. On his discharge from her, he
was for some time in distress in London, and eventually he found his way back to his native
country, where his enterprise, knowledge of seamanship, and facility in acquiring languages,
of which he spoke seven or eight, soon got him employment.

The commandant of the troops, Captain De Stuers, nephew to the Governor-General of the Moluccas,
who had very civilly pointed out the best anchorage to us, and given us every information in
his power, on our first arrival, finding that we were interested in the manners and customs
of the natives, very kindly invited us to see a menado dance performed by some of the native
soldiers of the garrison. We landed with him in his Oram-bay, a large native boat, pulled by
twelve men, who kept time by striking their round-bladed paddles against the gunwale between
every stroke.

NATIVE DANCE.

On landing, the prettiest sight possible awaited us. The barrack-square, a green grass field
of considerable extent, was covered with the native soldiers, all dressed in their gayest holiday
costume, and decorated with scarves and handkerchiefs of the brightest colours, which streamed
loosely from their elbows. Some of the men were armed with narrow bamboo shields, others with
wooden swords, and the remainder with the light stems of the sago-palm, which were to be used
as javelins. Each of these warriors came dancing up to us in turn, to make his obeisance, as
we advanced to the spot where seats had been prepared for us. As soon as we were all seated
the dance commenced. At first the spear-men advanced towards each other, holding the spear
in the right hand, and the bamboo shields in the left, keeping time to the rude music of a
couple of drums with very great accuracy, and dancing quite as much with their arms as their
legs, in the most graceful manner possible. When they had approached sufficiently near to each
other, one threw his spear with great force and dexterity, still keeping time to the music,
and the other parried the weapon with his bamboo shield. I only saw one instance of failure,
and then the unfortunate man received the blunt spear full on his breast with such force that
it sent him rolling head-over-heels, much to the amusement of the spectators, and equally to
his own discomfiture.

As one of the Port Essington natives, a very fine active man, had accompanied us on shore,
we persuaded him, with some difficulty, to join in the dance, thinking that the quickness of
eye, so common to all savages, would enable him to avoid the spear; but in this we were all
disappointed, as he was struck nearly every time the spear was thrown.

NATIVE SPORTS.

After the dance was over sundry gymnastics followed, and the evening was wound up by an exhibition
of the Ombres Chinoises, in which the soldiers seemed to take very great delight. The moving
figures were very cleverly managed; and, to judge from the shouts of laughter which accompanied
the storyteller in his tale, it must have been a very amusing one.

July 5.

The Resident having invited us to visit the nutmeg plantations on Great Banda, we accompanied
him to the landing-place at Lontar, where we found chairs waiting for us, fitted with long
poles, like those of a sedan, and were carried by eight men, who placed the poles on their
shoulders, thus raising the chair, with its occupant, above their heads, a position which we
found at first anything but pleasant.

In these conveyances we ascended to the summit of the island by a broad flight of stone steps,
leading up from the landing-place, at the top of which we saw a ruined fort, and a church,
that still retains traces of having been a fine building, though it had been much shaken by
an earthquake. After passing the church, we entered the nutmeg plantations.

NUTMEG PLANTATIONS.

The scenery was most beautiful. Under the shade of large kanari trees, whose luxuriant foliage
most effectually excluded the sun's rays, were thousands of nutmeg trees loaded with blossom
and fruit in every stage of development. After passing through above a mile of these, we arrived
at a house belonging to one of the planters, where we saw the process of curing the nutmeg.

In nine months from the opening of the blossom, the fruit, which resembles in appearance and
shape an unripe peach, is gathered from the tree, by means of a long stick with an iron hook
at the end. The outer covering, a tough fleshy skin which being opened divides in two halves,
is then pulled off, and the mace, which is found partly enveloping the nut, is carefully separated
and dried for two or three days in the sun. The nutmegs are then placed on long bamboo platforms,
under sheds built for the purpose, where they are dried by means of wood fires. When sufficiently
dry, they are handed over to the Government (who monopolize the whole produce of the island)
and are then placed in the Government stores, where they are heated with quick-lime, which
has the effect of preserving them from insects: they are then ready for exportation.

The annual produce of the island is said to average from 300,000 to 400,000 pounds of nutmegs;
and about one-fourth that quantity of mace. Nutmegs are the only produce of Banda. Cloves are
grown upon the island, but are considered to be so much inferior in quality to those produced
at Amboyna, that they are not exported.

In returning to the ship, the bearers amused themselves by racing with each other, a proceeding
far from agreeable to us who were carried, particularly when we came to the flight of steps,
which they descended at full speed, shaking the chairs to such a degree that we had some trouble
in keeping our seats. On arriving at the bottom we were most hospitably received by one of
the nutmeg planters.

On the 6th July we sailed from Banda, passing out through the western entrance, between the
shoal extending from Great Banda and the Gounung Api; though very narrow, it is quite safe,
and by keeping over on the Gounung Api shore, which is very steep, we found plenty of water.

BAY OF AMBOYNA.

July 7.

We entered the bay of Amboyna; but light winds prevented our reaching the anchorage till noon
on the 8th. We found a Dutch frigate, the Bellona, a 14-gun brig, and several merchant vessels
under Dutch colours lying in the roads.

On landing, I was most kindly received by the Governor-General of the Moluccas, Colonel de
Stuers, who gave me a most pressing invitation to take up my abode at his delightful residence
a short distance out of the town, which was gladly accepted. During our stay at Amboyna the
rain was almost incessant. This prevented our seeing the clove plantations, which were described
as being very beautiful, and the cloves of Amboyna are as much prized as the nutmegs of Banda.

VISIT A NATURAL GROTTO.

The only fine day was devoted to an excursion some miles inland to visit a curious natural
grotto. We started in chairs, borne on men's shoulders, similar to those at Banda, and which
seem to be the usual conveyance of the country. Our party consisted of more than 100 natives,
preceded by drums, gongs, and two large Dutch flags. The men who were not employed in carrying
the chairs, ran by our side, and amused us by their songs and war-cry, which was the most thrilling
yell I ever heard. The grotto itself, prettily situated on the side of a well wooded hill,
was of considerable length but not otherwise curious.

July 20.

Having at last succeeded in getting a rate for the chronometers, which the unsettled state
of the weather had rendered a matter of some difficulty, we sailed from Amboyna, much delighted
with the kindness and attention we had all received. During the night we passed a small insulated
volcano that was emitting a faint smoke, and in the morning made the north side of Wetter,
which ranges from 3000 to 4000 feet in height, is very barren, and apparently thinly inhabited.

ISLAND OF KISSA.

We were beating to the eastward against a strong breeze and heavy swell from the south-east
till the 25th, when we reached the small island of Kissa, off which we anchored, in 30 fathoms,
a quarter of a mile from the shore, to the great delight of Mr. Earl's servant, who was a native
of this place. His countrymen, on coming on board, received him with the most extravagant expressions
of joy; and kept him up all night, relating the wonders he had seen since he left them; in
doing which he talked to such a degree that when he came on board in the morning he could hardly
speak from hoarseness. We found the natives had been suffering most severely from famine, occasioned
by a long-continued drought that had dried up everything on the island, to such an extent,
that the rice crops, upon which they chiefly depend for food, had entirely failed; but of livestock
we found no difficulty in obtaining an abundant supply, and at a very moderate price. A couple
of fowls were purchased for two feet of thin brass wire, highly prized by the natives for making
fishhooks (which they prefer to our steel ones) and bracelets. A large pig was obtained for
two fathoms of white calico, and everything else in proportion.

VILLAGE OF WAURITI.

On landing, we were met by a chief who had seen Mr. Earl on a previous visit. He promised to
procure chairs to carry us up to Wauriti, the principal village on the island; and, while waiting
for them, came on board and dined with us, behaving with great decorum, and appearing much
interested in all he saw. After dinner we found the chairs waiting for us on the beach, and
proceeded to the village, ascending a deep ravine with a streamlet running down the centre,
overshadowed by the most luxuriant foliage.

After emerging from this ravine we found ourselves near the highest point of the island, of
which we had a good view. Every part exhibited abundant signs of industry and cultivation,
although parched up from want of rain. The chief of Wauriti received us with great hospitality,
and offered refreshments of tea, rice cake, and a sort of beer, made from the Sago palm.

MISSIONARY ESTABLISHMENT.

He then escorted us round the village, which contains a very good church and schoolhouse, constructed
under the direction of a Dutch Missionary, who had been for some years a resident on the island,
with his family, and who appeared to have been very successful in converting the natives; but
the distress occasioned by the want of rain was too great a trial of their faith; they declared
that their old gods had sent the drought upon them as a punishment for deserting them, for
they had never had such a visitation before Christianity had been introduced into the island.
The poor Missionary's influence was over; he was obliged to quit the island, and went to Amboyna.
A mile north of Wauriti we visited a smaller village inhabited by the descendants of some Dutch
families, who had lived upon the island many years ago. They were quite different in appearance
from the natives, and some of the women were very goodlooking. In returning to the ship, we
examined an old Dutch fort built on the beach, but now in a very dilapidated state. It consisted
simply of a square building, with bastions at the opposite angles. At sunset we made sail for
Letti, off which we anchored the next day, in 13 fathoms; half a mile north of the Missionary
establishment; where we found a resident minister and his family, and two others from another
part of the island staying with them. A visit from Europeans was, to them, an event of rare
occurrence, and must have been an interesting break in their monotonous lives; they had been
very successful in their labours, and had converted many of the natives. They had several establishments
on the island; the one we visited consisted of a church, schoolhouse, and house for the missionary;
the church had been built more than 100 years, and was a very substantial edifice. The school
appeared to be well attended by the native children.

The island of Letti, which is about 10 miles in extent, had also suffered much from the want
of rain, but was fast recovering its green appearance. A high ridge of hills extends along
the centre of the island from east to west; the sides of which, sloping gradually towards the
sea, are covered with trees, and the whole island presents an appearance of great fertility.
The anchorage off Letti, which we surveyed, is very good during the south-east monsoon, but
affords no shelter when the wind blows in an opposite direction. There may be an anchorage
on the south side of the island, which we did not visit, that would be available during the
North-West monsoon.

SERWATTY GROUP.

After completing our survey at Letti we worked to the eastward, against the monsoon, keeping
as close as possible under the lee of the Serwatty group, which enabled us to make a rough
survey of the islands composing it. These proved to be very incorrectly laid down in the only
chart we had, and from what we saw they require a far more detailed examination than we had
time to devote to them; this would, I have no doubt, lead to the discovery of many anchoring-places,
where vessels might carry on trade with the natives, with much greater ease and safety than
they can do when obliged to stand off and on with the vessel while the boats are sent in to
trade; since, by these means, the crew are necessarily divided, are liable to fall an easy
prey to the natives, should the latter be inclined to treachery.

The various traders we met with, during this, as well as on our former visit to the islands,
all agreed in warning us against the inhabitants of Timor Laut and Baba, as people not at all
to be trusted. It is much to be hoped that if Port Essington should ever become a place of
much trade, that these people will be more civilized, as from the easy communication, in either
monsoon, Timor Laut will be much frequented by the settlers at Port Essington, in order to
procure the tropical productions abounding there, which they would not find on the Australian
coasts. The Arrou islands, for the same reason, will hold out great inducements to traders,
as the timber found there is infinitely superior, for most purposes, to any found on the Cobourg
peninsula.

RETURN TO PORT ESSINGTON.

As our provisions were running short, and the time had arrived when we were expected to return
to the settlement, I had not time to stop to examine several places I wished to see, particularly
the southern part of the island of Timor Laut, where from information we received at Banda,
a very large and secure harbour is said to exist, available in both monsoons. The island of
Serra was another point, as it is stated to be a very good place for obtaining supplies.

In crossing over to Australia we saw Timor Laut, off which we experienced a very fresh South-East
breeze and a heavy sea, which continuing to prevail with a strong current setting to leeward,
we were in consequence eight days reaching Port Essington, where we found that all had gone
on well during our absence.

PORT ESSINGTON.

The period of our arrival at Port Essington had been looked forward to by all with deep interest,
and, I may say, some anxiety. Two years had elapsed since our last visit, and various and contradictory
were the reports in circulation respecting the welfare of the settlement. We were accordingly
truly rejoiced to find it in a state of prosperity that will ever reflect the highest credit
on the hardy few who have laboured so earnestly for its welfare. It was an emblem of the rapidity
with which, in young countries, it is possible to recover from any disaster, that the trees
which had been uprooted, shattered, and riven in fragments by the hurricane of 1839, were for
the most part concealed by the fresh foliage of the year; there was scarcely anything left
to commemorate that dreadful visitation, but the tombs of twelve brave fellows, of the Pelorus,
who lost their lives at the time.

There was a care-worn, jaundiced appearance about the settlers, that plainly revealed how little
suited was the climate for Europeans to labour in; and yet there had been, I was told, no positive
sickness. The hospital, however, had been enlarged, and rendered a very substantial building.
Captain Macarthur had built a strong and well-contrived blockhouse, of the excellent kind of
wood, a species of teak, before alluded to. A new garden also had been laid out, in which the
banana and pine, besides many other tropical fruits, were flourishing. The arrow-root and sugar-cane
grown here are allowed by those who have seen these plants in the West Indies not to be surpassed
in excellence; and the cotton from Pernambuco, and Bourbon seed, has been valued in England
at sixpence-halfpenny a pound. The colonists were beginning to understand the seasons; they
had taken out of the ground sweet potatoes nearly sufficient to last them until the next crop.
This was the first time they had been tried. I have never seen any in South America half the
size. In short, I may say that the settlement was fast approaching the state in which was that
at Raffles Bay when it was abandoned.

Considering the few days given to sporting, our game-book contains a very tolerable list, comprising
seven kangaroos, twenty quails, ten ducks, seven pigeons, two pheasants, and two ibises.

The natives in the neighbourhood of Port Essington are, like all others on the continent, very
superstitious; they fancy that a large kind of tree, called the Imburra-burra, resembling the
Adansonia, contains evil spirits. Here, also, as I have elsewhere observed, they fancy that
after death they reappear as whites; the bones of the dead are frequently carried from place
to place.

The reader will remember the native named Alligator, whom I have mentioned on a previous visit
to Port Essington. I witnessed in his family an instance of affection for a departed child,
which, though it exhibited itself in this peculiar manner, was extremely touching. The wife
had treasured up the bones of the little one, and constantly carried them about with her, not
as a memento mori, but as an object whereon to expend her tenderest emotions, whenever they
swelled within her breast. At such times she would put together these bones with a rapidity
that supposed a wonderful knowledge of osteology, and set them up that she might weep over
them. Perhaps, in her imagination, as she performed this melancholy rite, the ghastly framework
before her became indued with the comely form of infancy; bright eyes once more sparkled in
those hollow cells, and a smile of ineffable delight hung where, in reality, was naught but
the hideous grin of death. I exceedingly regret that the mother who could feel so finely was
some time afterwards over-persuaded to part with the bones of her child.

I may here mention that the medical officer of the settlement was in the habit of extracting
teeth for the natives, who found the European method much more easy than their own mode of
knocking them out. The supercargo of a vessel, learning this fact, was anxious to become a
purchaser of teeth to some extent for the London market, being persuaded that they would find
a ready sale among the dentists; and it is more than probable that many of our fair ladies
at home are indebted for the pearls on which the poets exhaust so much of their fancy to the
rude natives of Australia.

Among the information I gained during this stay at Port Essington respecting the Macassar people,
who periodically visit the coast, was that of their discovering a strait leading into the Gulf
of Carpentaria, behind English Company's Islands. Passing Cape Wilberforce, called Udjung Turu,
or Bearaway Point, they continue their course down the Gulf to the Wellesley Islands, named
by them Pulo Tiga, or The Three Islands; this is the usual southern limit of their voyage.
The Macassar proas that visit Port Essington, amounting in one season to fourteen, usually
brought for barter tea, sugar, cloths, salt-fish, rice, etc. Several of the nakodhas, or masters,
have expressed a wish to abandon fishing, and occupy themselves only in trade, if there is
sufficient encouragement held out to them.

During our stay a report was brought into the settlement by the natives that there was a large
vessel wrecked on the mainland, near the Alligator Rivers, which was accompanied by so many
details of place and circumstance that Captain Stanley was induced to send Lieutenant Vallack,
of the Britomart, away in the decked tender to procure information, and to render all assistance
in his power. He was accompanied by several of the Port Essington natives; and on arriving
at the Eastern River, found that there was no foundation for the report. But having got so
far away from the settlement, he ascended the river some little distance, and towards sunset
came on a tribe of natives. The anchor was let go, and signs were made to induce them to approach,
for some time without success. At last, however, encouraged by seeing so many of their own
countrymen, two or three of the more courageous ventured to draw near. The scene that followed
was a curious illustration of the slight communication that exists between natives of different
tribes, and also of the great difference in their language, as the strangers could hold no
conversation with the people from Port Essington, who, when they found their own dialect was
not understood, tried to explain themselves in such few words of broken English as were then
used at the colony, and seemed very much surprised at their want of success. A large mess of
boiled rice, which had been prepared by way of a feast for the newcomers, was then produced;
but it was not before they saw their countrymen eagerly devouring it that they could be induced
to eat, as they evidently did not know what it was. The result of Lieutenant Vallack's visit
is hostile to the idea entertained that clothes given to natives at Port Essington pass into
the interior, which I always much doubted. Had the fence before alluded to by me been run across
the neck, and an out-station formed there, we should have had further acquaintance with the
natives of the main, besides other advantages that would necessarily have accrued.

As it seemed extremely probable that the course of events would not again permit the Beagle
to visit Port Essington, we naturally experienced some regret on our departure, and were led
to speculate, with interest, on its future destiny. A young settlement, so remote and solitary,
cannot fail to awaken the liveliest sympathy in the voyager. How small soever may be the circle
of its present influence, the experience of the past teaches us confidently to expect that
wherever a knot of Englishmen locate themselves, there are deposited the germs of future greatness.
For Port Essington, a sphere of action, of great extent and importance, appears marked out
by the hand of nature; though, to a careless observer, unskilled in discerning the undeveloped
capabilities of geographical positions, it may appear in the light simply of an isolated military
post. And, certainly, whatever may be its actual resources, little or nothing has, as yet,
been done to ascertain them. We are still reduced to base our opinions on conjecture and hypothesis;
we know nothing of the amount of commerce that might be carried on with the islands of the
Indian Archipelago--nothing of the productions of the mainland--nothing of the extent to which
colonization might be carried in the neighbourhood. Without data of this kind it is impossible,
with any pretensions to accuracy, to estimate the probable future importance of our settlement
at Port Essington, the value of which does not depend on the fertility of Cobourg Peninsula,
any more than that of Gibraltar on the productiveness of the land within the Spanish lines.
Victoria, if we regard its own intrinsic worth, might be blotted out of the list of our possessions
without any material detriment to our interests; but its importance, as a commercial station,
is incalculable. It is, indeed, to the country behind--at present unvisited, unexplored, a
complete terra incognita--and to the islands within a radius of five hundred miles, that we
must look if we would form a correct idea of the value of Port Essington to the Crown. At present
it may seem idle, to some, to introduce these distant places as elements in the discussion
of such a question; but no one who reflects on the power of trade to knit together even more
distant points of the earth, will think it visionary to suppose that Victoria must one day--insignificant
as may be the value of the districts in its immediate neighbourhood--be the centre of a vast
system of commerce, the emporium, in fact, where will take place the exchange of the products
of the Indian Archipelago for those of the vast plains of Australia. It may require some effort
of the imagination, certainly, to discover the precursor of such a state of things in the miserable
traffic now carried on by the Macassar proas; but still, I think, we possess some data on which
to found such an opinion, and I am persuaded that Port Essington will ultimately hold the proud
position I predict for it.

(*Footnote. By this arrangement Sydney could be brought within nearly sixty days of England.)

As I have already observed, however, little pains have been taken to ascertain all the capabilities
of the place, and to extend our acquaintance with the country behind. No European has ever
yet penetrated any great distance beyond the neck that connects Cobourg Peninsula with the
mainland; and even the report of the existence of the settlement has scarcely travelled farther.
At least in 1841, when Lieutenant Vallack visited one of the Alligator rivers he found the
natives completely ignorant that we had established ourselves in their neighbourhood.

From the account of Lieutenant P.B. Stewart,* of which I have given a brief abstract above,
it appears that there is some good land on the Peninsula, though such is decidedly not the
case near the settlement.

(*Footnote. This officer has since forwarded me his route. It appears that on leaving Victoria
he proceeded to the south-west side of the Peninsula, and followed the shore to the neck, when
taking an east direction he crossed it, and then pursuing a northerly course made his way to
Middle Head, on the side of the harbour opposite the settlement. The frequent opportunities
Lieutenant Stewart had of determining his positions by cross-bearings of the islands, leave
no doubt as to the correctness of his route.)

The reports of late sent in respecting the climate have, in some measure, been unfavourable;
and, as I have observed, the appearance of the garrison was rather sickly; but may not this
arise partly from the indifferent manner in which they are housed? Small, low, thatched cottages,
in a temperature much too warm for Europeans to labour in constantly, are apt to engender disease.
There is, besides, a mangrove swamp immediately behind the settlement, which at present decreases
its salubrity. With regard to the range of the thermometer, it has been known as low as 62
degrees, and it is never so high, by ten or twenty degrees, as I have seen it in South Australia
during the hot winds: the average, however, is about 83 degrees. The fact that the site of
Victoria lies so far from the entrance of the harbour is injurious to its prosperity, as it
prevents many vessels from calling, and deprives it of the breezes that constantly prevail
on the coast, and would of course conduce to its healthiness.*

(*Footnote. The following remarks from Mr. Bynoe, on the climate of Northern Australia, corroborate
the views put forward in the text:

I find on a reference to the Medical Journals, as well as to a Meteorological table kept by
me during a period of six years, on the coasts of Australia, and under every variety of climate,
that we had no diseases peculiar to that continent, and I am led to believe it a remarkably
healthy country. On the North and North-west coasts, where you find every bight and indentation
of land fringed with mangroves, bordering mud flats, and ledges formed by corallines in every
stage of decomposition, with a high temperature, no fevers or dysenteries were engendered.

Our ship's company were constantly exposed, in boats, to all the vicissitudes from wet to dry
weather, sleeping in mangrove creeks for many months in succession, pestered by mosquitoes
during the hours of repose, yet they still remained very healthy; and the only instance where
the climate was at all prejudicial (if such a term can be applied) was in the Victoria River,
on the north coast, where the heat was, at one period, very great, and the unavoidable exposure
caused two of the crew to be attacked with Coup de Soleil.

Our casualties consisted of two deaths during our stay on the Australian coast, one from old
age; and the other, a case of dysentery, contracted at Coepang.

It may not be uninteresting to state, that from the time that Port Essington was settled in
1838, up to the period of our last visit to that military post, and for some time after, no
endemial form of disease had manifested itself, and the only complaints that the men had been
suffering from were diseases such as were usually to be met with in a more temperate clime,
and those were few. But we must take into consideration their isolated position, the constant
sameness of their life, their small low thatched cottages, mostly with earthen floors; their
inferior diet, and also the absence or scantiness of vegetables. Most of the men, moreover,
experience a constant yearning for home, which, yearly increasing, terminates in despondency,
and leaves them open to the attacks of disease. Scorbutic symptoms were at one period very
prevalent, arising principally from the poor form of diet; similar cases occurred in a former
settlement on that part of the coast, from the same causes; but although Port Essington has
been of late visited by sickness, I do not consider it by any means an unhealthy spot.)

Considering Port Essington as a harbour of refuge for the crews of ships wrecked in Torres
Strait, it is certainly far removed from the scene of distress; and looking upon it in this
light only, a military station at Cape York would probably be attended with greater benefit
and less expense, though, as it might be expected to meet with annoyance from the natives of
the islands in Torres Strait, who are badly disposed and wander over a great space in search
of plunder, the party should not be very small. There is, moreover, no real harbour; but, at
the same time, as the post would be on a low narrow projection, with a seabreeze sweeping over
it in either monsoon, it would doubtless be cooler than at Port Essington.

I may observe that the only instance that came under my immediate notice of the benefit of
a harbour of refuge on the north coast, was that of a vessel wrecked too far to the westward
to reach Cape York, the crew of which arrived at Port Essington in their boats.

It was in some measure at the request of the surgeon, in order to alleviate Mr. Fitzmaurice's
great sufferings by a little rest, that our stay was lengthened to September 7th, when we left
in the morning.*

(*Footnote. While steering North by East 1/2 East for Point Record, we discovered a bank of
4 1/2 fathoms, with 7 and 8 on each side. When just off it, to the northward, in 7 fathoms,
the west extreme of Point Record bore North 19 1/4 East, and its east extreme North 35 1/4
East, and the north-east end of Spear Point North 59 degrees West.)

SAHUL SHOAL.

By noon we had cleared the heads of Port Essington, and a course was then shaped for the supposed
Sahul Shoal, the northern and central parts of which we passed over without finding any remarkable
decrease in the soundings.*

(*Footnote. This clearly proved that our knowledge of the extent of the Sahul Bank was very
imperfect. It appears that between the latitudes 11 degrees 0 minutes South and 11 degrees
25 minutes South, and the longitudes 125 degrees 20 minutes East and 125 degrees 50 minutes
East, there are no less than six patches of coral known, of 12 and 16 fathoms. It is my belief
that the whole of this shoal, if it merit the name, lies between the latitudes of 11 degrees
15 minutes South and 11 degrees 35 minutes South, and the longitudes of 123 degrees 35 minutes
East and 124 degrees 15 minutes East.)

ARRIVE AT TIMOR.

The winds were singularly light from the eastward, until we approached Timor, the South-West
end of which we saw in the morning of the 15th,* when, after passing through Samow Strait,**
we anchored in 13 fathoms off Coepang; the flagstaff of Fort Concordia bearing South-South-East
a quarter of a mile.

(*Footnote. In passing the north-east end of Rottee a good lookout was kept for a 5-fathom
patch, laid down in the Admiralty Chart as lying four miles east of it. Nothing, however, could
be discovered of it; and close to the place we had 50 fathoms. In Flinders' Atlas we find 50
fathoms marked on this spot; and it is probable that the mistake has occurred in copying, the
0 being left out, and the space dotted round, to draw attention to the supposed shoal-water.)

(**Footnote. The tides in Samow Strait run from one to two knots an hour, eight hours to the
northward, and four in the opposite direction. The time of high-water at Coepang at the full
and change is half-past eleven, when the rise is twelve feet. On the north side of Timor, between
it and Ombaye, the current sets to the westward at the rate of from two to four knots an hour,
in the south-east monsoon; but close to the Timor shore it sets to windward. Ships make the
passage to the eastward during its prevalence by keeping close to the north sides of the Lomblen,
Pantar, and Ombaye Islands, where they find a favourable current, and winds from the southward
drawing through the straits separating the islands. There is no anchorage between Pantar and
Ombaye; but on the south side of Timor, at the mouth of the Naminie River, and twenty-five
miles further eastward, and also at the east point, inside the small island of Pulo Jackie,
there are good anchorages in from 10 to 15 fathoms. The southern coast of Timor is washed by
heavy surf in either monsoon.)

Arrangements were immediately made for watering the ship, by having the barecas filled and
carried to the boats by persons from the shore, thereby saving our crew from exposure in this,
I believe at all times, unhealthy climate. When our stock was completed, with the additional
casks procured at Port Essington, we had sufficient for eighty days.

We found the Resident, Mr. Gronovius, as usual, very communicative; he was much astonished
at the size of some bananas I gave him from Port Essington.

TIMOREES.

I may take this opportunity of giving some additional information respecting the Timorees.
It appears that after killing an enemy they, like the New Zealanders, preserve the head by
baking it; and, during meals, place food in the mouth of their bodiless foe. On the death of
a Rajah, a favourite slave or two is killed and buried with him; some weapons, also, are laid
in the grave, in order that the deceased may not want for anything in the next world; this
clearly shows that they have an idea of a future state.

The mode in which trade is carried on with the wild natives of Timor is extremely singular.
The goods intended for barter are left in parcels on the shore; the natives come down and place
against them, generally, bees' wax, and a kind of cotton cloth, to the amount which they conceive
to be the value, when they also retire. The trader returns, and if satisfied, takes the native's
goods, leaving his own; if not, he goes away without touching either. The natives again come
down and weigh the relative value of the heaps of merchandize, and either consent to the proffered
bargain or take away their own property. Neither party ever comes in sight of the other; and
the strictest honour is preserved in the transaction. Most of my readers will recollect that
a similar method of trading is attributed to one of the nations of antiquity.

A tribe of Sumbawa,* who call themselves the Danga people, have a custom worth mentioning.
They are the only tribe on that island not Mahomedans, and worship the evil spirit, to appease
whom they frequently leave a roasted pig, with rice, at a well near a tree, a species of wild
mango; the priest, of course, reaps the benefit of this pious offering. A similar custom prevails
among the natives of Eastern Patagonia.

(*Footnote. I may here mention, that when the great eruption took place on this island, the
report of it was heard at Macassar, nearly three hundred miles distant, and the motion was
felt by the ships at anchor there.)

SAIL FROM COEPANG.

By the morning of September 24th the rough charts were completed, and tracings, with other
despatches, being deposited with the Resident, to be forwarded to England, we sailed from Coepang.
On the 26th the first lieutenant, the surgeon, and the master, were seized with a violent attack
of cholera, which lasted twenty-four hours--another evidence of the unhealthiness of Timor.

The work that now lay before us was, perhaps, one of the most interesting features of the North-West
coast--a remarkable indentation, south of Roebuck Bay, many parts of which had never been seen.
Its peculiar configuration naturally suggested the idea that a river must exist there; and
it was accordingly with great anxiety that we looked forward to the result. I had intended
to examine the eastern part of Scott's Reef in the way; but westerly winds, which were, however,
favourable for reaching our destination, prevented us. From the result of our soundings on
the passage to the coast, it would appear that a ship in 60 or 70 fathoms would be about the
same number of miles from the land between the latitude of 14 or 15 degrees South--quality
of bottom, a greyish sand, which becomes coarser as the depth increases.)

After midnight on the 3rd and 4th we had strong breezes of short duration from South-East,
and although a hundred miles from the nearest land to windward, a fine kind of dust was found
on the rigging, which, on examination by a microscope, proved to consist of sand and wood ashes.

REACH THE NORTH-WEST COAST.

We saw the land to the southward of Roebuck Bay on October 8th, and at noon passed four miles
from Cape Bossut, which we found to be in latitude 18 degrees 42 minutes South and longitude
121 degrees 45 minutes East.* On the south side opened a bay two miles deep, with a small high-water
inlet at its head. From thence we held a general South by West 1/2 West course, passing along
the land at the distance of from three to four miles, in soundings of 5 and 6 fathoms, and
at sunset anchored four miles from a low sandy coast, on which the sea broke heavily. Cape
Joubert,** distant sixteen miles, was the last projection of any kind we passed.

(*Footnote. The longitudes depend on the meridian of Coepang. which has been considered in
123 degrees 37 minutes 0 seconds East.)

(**Footnote. In latitude 18 degrees 58 minutes South and longitude 121 degrees 42 minutes East.
It is crested with bare white sand, and although only forty-five feet high is a remarkable
headland on this low coast.)

APPEARANCE OF NORTH-WEST COAST.

From that headland commenced a low, wearisome, sandy shore, which we traced for sixty-five
miles in a South-West by West direction, looking in vain for some change in its character.
Nothing beyond the coast sand-dunes, sprinkled with vegetation, and only twenty feet high,
could be seen from the masthead, although the ship was within three miles of the beach. This
cheerless aspect was heightened by the total absence of native fires, a fact we had never before
observed in such an extent of country, and truly significant of its want of fertility. Still,
in our sight it possessed a greater charm than it may, probably, in that of others; as every
fresh mile of coast that disclosed itself, rewarding our enterprise whilst it disappointed
our expectations, was so much added to the domains of geography. That such an extent of the
Australian continent should have been left to be added to the portion of the globe discovered
by the Beagle was remarkable; and although day by day our hopes of accomplishing any important
discovery declined, a certain degree of excitement was kept alive throughout.

It was the 13th before we had made good the distance I have above mentioned, when a reddish
hillock, of fifty-six feet in elevation, in latitude 19 degrees 48 minutes South, and longitude
120 degrees 36 minutes East, promising a view of the interior, we went to visit it. There was
less surf on the beach than we expected, and we landed without much difficulty. Our old friend,
the black and white red-bill, or oyster-catcher, was in readiness to greet us, accompanied
by a few families of sanderlings, two or three batches of grey plovers, and a couple of small
curlews. Crossing the beach, a line of reddish sandstone cliffs, twelve feet in height, was
ascended, and found to face a bank of sand, held together by a sort of coarse spinifex. This
bank, which ran parallel to the coast, was narrow, subsiding into a valley three quarters of
a mile wide, on the opposite side of which rose a hummocky ridge of coarse ferruginous sandstone
formation. The valley was covered with brown grass and detached stunted bushes. Water had recently
lodged in it, as appeared from the saucer-like cakes of earth broken and curled up over the
whole surface. The nature of the soil was shown by the heaps of earth thrown out at the entrances
of the holes of iguanas, and other burrowing creatures; it was a mixture of sand, clay, and
vegetable matter.

VIEW OF INTERIOR.

From the highest hillock beyond the valley a view of the interior was obtained: it presents,
like most of the portions of the continent we had discovered, the aspect of a dreary plain,
clothed with grass and detached clumps of green brushwood. "What a strange country!" was the
exclamation that naturally burst from us all, on beholding this immense and apparently interminable
expanse, with no rise to relieve the tired eye. As we gazed, our imaginations transported us
to the Pampas of South America, which this vast level greatly resembled, except that the motions
of no startled deer or ostriches scudding over the country, and leaving a train of dust behind,
gave life and animation to the scene. No trace of kangaroos, or of natives, not even the sign
of a fire, greeted us on this inhospitable coast. The evidences of animal were as scanty as
those of vegetable life.

BIRDS.

Two brown bustards rose out of the grass; they were of the same size and colour as those seen
in the Gulf of Carpentaria, and quite as wary, which was very singular. A couple of specimens
of land birds were shot; one of them resembled a Meliphagus, although its stomach was filled
with small beetles, finely broken up;* its head was covered with yellow pollen, out of a flower
resembling the mallow, which is frequently resorted to by small beetles during the heat of
the day, when the petal closing over them they are extracted, with some difficulty, by the
bird. The other specimen was a brown grain-feeding kind; it invariably rested on the ground,
where in its habits, head erect, tail down, and short, sudden run, it greatly resembled a tit-lark.

(*Footnote. Usually observed in the specimens of this species procured by Dr. Bynoe.)

At daylight on the 14th we continued our exploration from the spot where we visited the shore,
marked on the chart as Red Hill; and found that the coast trended West by South to the part
fronting the Amphinome Shoals, and that instead of the continued sandy beach were occasional
low rocky projections. Eleven miles from Red Hill, a detached rocky ledge extended two miles
from the shore, and at the end of twenty, commenced a line of low red sandstone cliffs five
miles in extent. Here we, for the first time, saw native fires; and the country was evidently
higher.

SOLITARY ISLAND.

October 15.

In the evening the ship was anchored five miles from a small island, bearing South-South-East,
which we found to be in latitude 19 degrees 55 minutes South, longitude 120 degrees 55 minutes
East; and which, from its lonely situation, was named Solitary Island. Six and nine miles North
by East from it we had crossed several lines of ripplings and shoal patches of 4 and 5 fathoms.
On visiting it next morning (16th) it was found to be of red sandstone formation, thirty feet
high, and devoid of vegetation. Although lying a mile from the shore it is connected at low-water
by a flat of sand. From its summit the view of the interior presented a slight change. At the
distance of six miles there was a bank or rise in the country having rather a fertile aspect,
above a hundred feet high, trending South-West with dense woodland intervening.

On the same afternoon the ship was moved fourteen miles further on. The many patches of ripplings
we now saw in every direction westward, assured us that the Amphinome Shoals were close at
hand; on patches one and two miles west and south of the ship there was only six and nine feet.

VISIT THE SHORE.

October 17.

In the morning another party visited the shore, landing under a low sandhill, sixty feet high,
bearing South by East six miles, called Mount Blaze, in latitude 20 degrees 0 minutes South
and longitude 119 degrees 40 minutes East. This was found to stand on a projection, with two
small rocky islets on either side. Eastward from it cliffy points separating shoal mangrove
bays, formed the character of the coast; whilst in the opposite direction extended a bay, fifteen
miles wide, over the western point of which we recognised the sandhills seen on our visit to
this part in July, 1840; the shores of this great bay were fronted for some distance by shoal
water.

Behind Mount Blaze the country was swampy, with mangroves, for a few miles; it then gradually
rose, and on the bearing of South 7 degrees East, distant nearly fifteen miles, were seen conical-sided
flat-topped hills about two hundred feet high. This was the first remarkable elevation in the
country we had seen during the two hundred miles of the coastline traced by the Beagle; it
appears to be the North-East termination of the high land seen southward from the Turtle Isles.

Some small burrowing animal had so excavated the ground in the vicinity of Mount Blaze, that
at each step we sunk in knee-deep; a few quails were shot, but no varieties of birds were seen
beyond what had been already observed at the other points of the coast visited.

Weighing, we stood to the westward, after making a short stretch to the north-east; but shoal
water, at the end of six miles, obliged us to go on the other tack. The change in the direction
of the flood- tide, from westerly to northerly, did not leave much hope of our finding a passage
to the westward. At sunset the anchor was dropped in 9 fathoms, with a shoal patch of 5 fathoms
two miles to the eastward, Mount Blaze, just visible from the masthead, bearing south sixteen
miles. During the afternoon we had crossed no less than five lines of ripplings, on which,
at low-water, there was only from 2 to 5 fathoms.

October 19.

After the noon observation another attempt was made to find a passage to the westward; but
at the end of eighteen miles we found ourselves embayed among patches of ripplings and breakers.
The western sandhills, seen yesterday, bore at this time South by East fifteen miles. Two-thirds
of the distance from the shore was a continued line of broken water. Finding, by sounding with
the boats, that there was no passage for the ship, we retraced our track east; and in the evening
anchored again in 7 fathoms, between two ridges of 4.

AMPHINOME SHOALS.

The outer breaker of the Amphinome Shoals bore North 37 degrees West three miles, which placed
it in latitude 19 degrees 41 minutes South and longitude 119 degrees 24 minutes East; and as
these shoals extend eighteen miles off such low land, they may fairly be considered dangerous.

BEDOUT ISLAND.

Next evening we anchored off the east side of Bedout Island, having, in the morning, nineteen
miles to the east of it and twenty-two from the mainland, passed over a ridge of 5 fathoms.

October 21.

We spent the day on Bedout, the centre of which we found to be in latitude 19 degrees 35 minutes
45 seconds South, longitude 119 degrees 08 minutes 45 seconds East. It is a circular sand islet
twenty feet high, and half a mile in extent. Off its western side ripplings and rocks extend
nearly three miles; in other parts it is fronted by a circular reef a mile in extent, and of
a different kind from the Turtle Isle reefs, being composed of live corallines and fan-like
leaves, which giving way readily to the feet, we suddenly found ourselves immersed almost up
to our necks; within fifty yards of the island this became worse. The reefs and beaches abounded
with turtles of two kinds, the Mydas and a species of the Imbricated. We were in time for the
noddy's eggs; but the other birds had hatched theirs, and left for sea, returning only at night.
From their great abundance and constant visits they had formed a kind of guano on the island.
Among the varieties of the feathered tribe was the golden plover.

On the following afternoon we stood over, South-South-East for the main; but were again prevented
by shoal water from approaching within twelve miles of the nearest part, which was the western
point of the bay seen from Mount Blaze. Broken water and dry sands extended between south and
east, and to the south-west the entrance of Breaker Inlet and other parts of the last year's
survey were readily distinguished.

October 22.

During the forenoon the boats completed the soundings, and in the evening the ship was anchored
under the North Turtle Isle. Thus terminated the examination of this hitherto unexplored part
of the coast, which had been the field of many years' speculation. One of the most remarkable
points, is the great rise of twenty-eight feet in the tide, which can only be accounted for
by the fact of the water being heaped up in the concavity formed by the coast; on the first
part of the bight the direction of the flood was from West, and on the latter from West-North-West.
We had found that no river or other interesting feature existed; and that it was the most dull
and uniform portion of the continent we had seen, or that could possibly be imagined.

BREAKER INLET.

While I have no reason to believe that an examination of Breaker Inlet, which, from the numerous
sandbanks forming the Amphinome Shoals, has probably a considerable outlet, would lead to a
discovery of any importance, nevertheless, I regret that the heavy surf which breaks across
its entrance at this season of the year entirely prevented my exploring it.

The winds we had experienced on this part of the coast were light, from the eastward, during
the night, and moderate from North-North-West to West-South-West towards the latter part of
the day, the morning being frequently calm. On one or two occasions in the night we had slight
squalls from South-East accompanied by lightning; but, commonly speaking, the weather was very
fine, the temperature on board being generally 77, the maximum being 82 and the minimum 75
degrees. On shore it was about five degrees higher.

EXMOUTH GULF.

The necessary chronometric and magnetic observations were completed, and a supply of turtles
taken on board by the evening of the 26th, when after leaving a paper in a bottle, recording
our visit and describing the nature of the coast eastwards, we left with the intention of exploring
Exmouth Gulf, which was the only remaining portion of the north-western shore of the continent
that had not been visited by Captain King or ourselves.

Continuing our passage we arrived at Swan River on November 23rd.

REPORTED HARBOUR.

Among the news that most interested us on our arrival at Swan River, was the report of the
discovery of a harbour on the west coast, near Moresby's Flat-topped Range. In the Surveyor
General's office I was shown a map of that portion of Western Australia by Mr. Arrowsmith,
"from the surveys of Captain Grey," whose name the port bore; and the united authorities of
this talented explorer, and this celebrated geographer, would have removed all doubt from my
mind as to the correctness of the report to which I have alluded, even if the alleged discovery
had not taken place on a portion of the coast unvisited by Captain King or myself. In the colony,
however, very different opinions were held; and it was confidently maintained that Port Grey,
although placed, by accident or otherwise, twelve miles to the southward, was no other than
the bay we had previously visited, called by us Champion Bay. It is true I could trace a resemblance
between their southern parts; but they differed so widely in their northern--Port Grey being
represented in the chart, and printed description, to be perfectly safe, and sheltered in that
quarter by a point and a reef--that I saw no grounds for giving credence to the opinion industriously
circulated at Swan River, that the reef and point, or perhaps the whole port, had been fabricated
by the land-jobbers at home. Such an opinion, however, was quite a disinterested one on their
part; as an extension of the colony northwards, and the establishment of a settlement near
Moresby's Flat-topped Range, would have led to a result much desired by them, the occupancy,
namely, of the intervening country. It was in the neighbourhood of the harbour, the existence
or identity of which was thus called in question, that Captain Grey had reported to have seen
a fertile district; and a company had actually arrived from England for the purpose of forming
a settlement there. Mr. Clifton, the Chief Commissioner, however, on hearing the opinion prevalent
in the colony, did not think proper to risk the lives of the people under his charge, by conveying
them to a port that might be fabulous, and to a country the fertility of which was absolutely
denied; and the destination of the new settlement was, accordingly, provisionally changed to
the shores of the Leschenault Inlet, which held out a prospect of solid, if not brilliant,
success, and possessed advantages, which, if not dazzling, were at least exempt from the suspicion
of being visionary.

Anxious to have further information on this subject through a personal interview with Mr. Clifton,
I accompanied His Excellency Governor Hutt and the Surveyor General on a tour in the direction
of the new settlement, whilst the ship underwent a slight refit, and the men had a run ashore.
The survey of the Swan, from the entrance to Perth, was, meanwhile, undertaken by Mr. Forsyth.

THE GRASS-TREE.

Leaving Fremantle, the first part of the road lay between low ranges of limestone hills, and
through quite a forest of grass-trees, gums (Xanthorroea) some knobby, old and crooked, others
erect and reaching the height, occasionally, of perhaps seventeen feet, with their tufted and
overarching crests towering above those of smaller growth that were scattered over the earth
around.*

(*Footnote. These trees, called Blackboys by the colonists, from the resemblance they bear,
in the distance, to natives, attain, it is said, a great age, and there is a vague report that
when fifty years old they are only a foot above ground.)

ROAD TO AUSTRALIND.

The road passes through the township of Pinjarra, on the fertile banks of the Murray. Where
it crosses the river, the first and only great affray took place with the natives, whose blood
on that unfortunate occasion stained the waters of the reach that now slept in peaceful beauty,
as if strife had never polluted its banks.* Here we met Mr. Clifton, who accompanied us to
his new township of Australind, to plant the germs of which, in the wilds of Western Australia,
he and his worthy family had left England and all the comforts of society. This interesting
spot is situated on the east side of Leschenault Inlet; the approach is laid out with much
taste, the road leading along the foot of a hill covered with wood, whilst on the right is
an open growth of trees, affording every now and then a glimpse of the beautiful estuary, with
its surface just ruffled and glittering in the rays of the setting sun. I was much struck with
the beauty of the scenery during this evening's and the morrow's excursion, having had no idea
that there was such a fertile, well watered, and heavily timbered district so near the coast
in Western Australia.**

(*Footnote. A spirited painting of this encounter I saw ornamenting the walls of Captain Mears'
cottage at Guildford.)

(**Footnote. Her Majesty's dockyards are now availing themselves of this supply of excellent
timber; and its proximity to the sea must greatly enhance the value of this part of the continent.)

CORRESPONDENCE WITH MR. CLIFTON, ETC.

Having conversed with Mr. Clifton on the subject of the settlement he had intended to make
near Port Grey, and been made acquainted with his reasons for doubting the existence of the
harbour, and the fertility of the surrounding country, as well as with his desire to have the
question satisfactorily set at rest, I requested him to write to me on the subject; and on
the receipt of his letter,* I communicated, also in writing, with his Excellency, Governor
Hutt, and the Surveyor-General, Mr. Roe; the result of which correspondence was, that I determined
to examine that portion of the coast; and to afford Mr. Clifton the opportunity of accompanying
me, and with his own eyes convincing himself of the policy or impolicy of the course he had
adopted.

(*Footnote. From which the following is an extract: Your arrival at Gage Roads, in her Majesty's
surveying vessel, Beagle, under your command, affords me an opportunity of soliciting your
able assistance towards the solution of a question of great interest, not only to the Western
Australian Company, whom I represent, but to this colony at large; and I feel assured that
your known zeal in the cause of Geographical and Hydrographical research will induce you, if
it be within your power, to comply with the request which I now take the liberty to make. Under
these feelings I proceed to state to you, that the Western Australian Company, after all their
plans had been formed for founding their intended Colony of Australind, in Leschenault inlet,
were led under circumstances which occurred, and information which reached them, to abandon
that intention and to determine to fix their settlement at a port discovered by Captain Grey,
designated in England by the appellation of Port Grey, and lying on the North-West coast of
this colony, in or about the latitude of 29 degrees south, within the limits of the district
between Gantheaume Bay and the River Arrowsmith, in which district her Majesty's Government
had permitted the Company to take possession of extensive tracts of land in lieu of their property
in other parts of Western Australia.

Upon my arrival, however, in March last, at Port Leschenault, with the intention of conveying
in the Parkfield, with the first body of settlers and emigrants to the new district, the Company's
surveying establishment already employed in this neighbourhood, I received such communications
from his Excellency the Governor, and such information respecting the supposed Port Grey, and
the country in its vicinity, together with a tracing of the partial survey made by you in Champion
Bay, lying in latitude 28 degrees 47 minutes South which is presumed to be identical with Port
Grey, that I was induced, after full consultation with his Excellency, to unite with him in
opinion, that it would be proper for me to depart from my instructions, and to found the colony
under my charge on the spot originally contemplated in Leschenault Inlet, instead of at Port
Grey, which determination I accordingly carried into effect under the Governor's sanction.

It naturally was my most anxious wish, as it would have been my duty, if it had been practicable,
to visit myself the supposed port, before I took, in conjunction with his Excellency, a step
involving so great a personal responsibility, and so seriously affecting all the predetermined
plans of the company, settlers, and emigrants. I have since made every practical endeavour,
but without success, to obtain means of proceeding to the district in question, in order to
establish the fact by actual observation and research, whether that district does or does not
afford a proper site for the establishment of a new settlement on an extensive scale, or is
totally inapplicable for it, according to the information which led to the decision come to.
And as the result of such examination involves measures which may prove of very great importance
to the local interests of this colony, and even to the interests of the mother-country, I venture
to submit to your consideration, whether you would not deem that inquiry of sufficient importance
to justify your proceeding to Champion Bay, in her Majesty's sloop, Beagle, under your command,
to ascertain fully the capabilities of the country in its immediate vicinity, and to determine
whether there be another harbour or not at the place assigned to Port Grey on the map recently
published by Arrowsmith.

If your proceeding to that part of this coast should be within the scope of the service assigned
to you by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, or the importance of the solution of these
questions, on which such extensive interests and operations depend, should induce you to take
upon yourself the responsibility of going there, I earnestly request you will allow me the
honour of accompanying you, for the purpose of fulfilling my duty to the Directors of the Company,
and to the very numerous body of persons interested in the formation of the intended settlement
under them.)

EXAMINATION OF COAST.

On the 12th, accordingly, we sailed from Gage Roads, and next morning closed with the land
in latitude 29 degrees 13 minutes South being thirteen miles south of the position assigned
to Port Grey in Arrowsmith's map, before alluded to. From thence we followed the shore at a
distance of between three and five miles, in soundings of 7 and 12 fathoms; the first part
trended North by West two miles, and then North-West 1/2 West to Point Grey, lying five miles
South by East of Point Moore (a bight of that width being formed between) without any sign
of the sought-for harbour. The general appearance of the coast was that of high sandhills,
partly covered with vegetation; immediately in the rear of which there appeared a range rather
higher, and of a less barren appearance; behind these again, at a distance of eight or nine
miles, rose a series of singular table-topped broken ranges, terminating southwards in about
latitude 29 degrees 5 minutes South. Mount Fairfax and Wizard Peak are the most conspicuous
objects in this range.

REACH CHAMPION BAY.

Owing to the water being very smooth, we found ourselves embayed on approaching the point of
the above mentioned bight, by a reef, the outer part of which bore South 37 degrees West fifteen
miles from Mount Fairfax. The delay caused in clearing this danger, made it evening by the
time we reached Champion Bay, in latitude 28 degrees 47 minutes South, from whence we had previously
examined the coast northward for nearly thirty miles. We had, therefore, now satisfactorily
ascertained that, excepting Champion Bay, there was no good anchorage on the coast between
the latitudes of 28 degrees 20 minutes South and 29 degrees 20 minutes South.*

(*Footnote. For a description of Champion Bay, see above.)

From what I have said it will appear, that the point represented in Arrowsmith's map, as sheltering
the north side, has no real existence. It is probable, that the following passage from Mr.
Moore's Journal, may have had some share in suggesting the contrivance.

VISIT MOUNT FAIRFAX.

This point being set at rest, we proceeded with a large armed party at daylight on the morning
of the 15th, to examine the country. Landing, we took an East by South direction for Mount
Fairfax, the nearest and most commanding point. About one mile and a half from the beach, we
crossed the dry bed of a stream, trending South by East about twenty yards wide, with banks
from twenty to thirty feet high, composed of reddish earth and sand, having considerable portions
of ironstone in it. A few small tea-trees of the colonists grew in the sand that formed the
dry bed of the stream. Our course continued afterwards uninterrupted, over a gradually rising
plain, of a sandy scrubby nature, until reaching the foot of Mount Fairfax, when we crossed
another small watercourse, trending South by West where, for the first time, we noticed a solitary
stunted casuarina. Mount Fairfax is the southern and most elevated part of an isolated block,
forming Moresby's Flat-topped Range. It rests on a reddish, sandy, sloping plain, on which
were occasionally noticed fragments of quartz and ironstone, which latter formation is the
character of Mount Fairfax, and apparently of the neighbouring heights. Having completed our
observations, which place Mount Fairfax 582 feet above the level of the sea, we continued our
journey to the south-east, in the direction of Wizard Peak. Two miles, over a scrubby sandy
plain, brought us again to the Chapman or Greenough. Here, for the first time, there was an
appearance of fertility; but only in the valley of the river, which was about a quarter of
a mile wide.

With the exception of a few brackish pools, the bed, as where we before crossed it, was dry,
and formed of white sand, growing in which was a small crooked kind of drooping gum, besides
a species of wattle and tea-tree. Its course was about South by West and appeared to come from
the valleys, formed by the ranges in the rear of Mount Fairfax, and north of Wizard Peak. Continuing
our journey, we proceeded over an undulating plain, on the higher parts of which a reddish
sand and ironstone gravel universally prevailed; in the lower parts, and near the watercourses,
the soil approached a light mould, and produced the warran, so much sought after by the natives.
In all this district the vegetation was of the worst description--the trees, which grew only
in the valleys, were small kinds of banksia, wattles, and drooping gums--not large enough to
furnish building materials.

ASCEND WIZARD PEAK.

In the course of the afternoon we reached the summit of that remarkable and almost solitary
pyramidal hill, Wizard Peak,* which we found composed of large blocks of ironstone, having
a most powerful effect on the needle, and changing its direction in different places ten degrees.
Here we noticed two or three stunted xanthorrhoeas growing on the South-West side of the hill;
and a few small casuarinas, and wattles were thinly scattered on its summit, which, by barometric
measurement, was found to be 715 feet above the level of the sea. Part of the range lying immediately
north was absolutely a mass of bare ironstone. This view was very commanding--to the North-North-West
and North-East lay extensive valleys, all of which appeared through a spy-glass to be of the
same arid nature; for a few miles to the eastward, and a great many to the northward, the formation
of the country was of the same flat, broken, and irregular character, but no part visible appeared
to be of greater elevation than that on which we stood; to seawards the appearance of the country
was that of an undulating plain, with patches of stunted woodland widely scattered.

(*Footnote. Distant eleven miles from Champion Bay.)

APPEARANCE OF COUNTRY FROM WIZARD PEAK.

After attentively examining with my glass, resting on the ground, all that lay within the extensive
range of vision afforded by Wizard Peak,* I could not help congratulating Mr. Clifton on his
display of judgment, in taking the responsible step I have mentioned; and it is to be deeply
regretted, that one so energetic, and so well adapted for the duty he had undertaken, should
have been totally abandoned by those who sent him out. It was now clear that this part of the
country was not fit for the settler, being deficient in the three most necessary articles,
water, timber for building, and food for stock.** It was also now clear that the opinion expressed
at Swan River, regarding both the harbour and the quality of the country was substantially
correct. But it was not until it became apparent to my own eyes, that I could believe anyone
could be so reckless as to induce a large number of individuals, including women and children,
by false, or at least exaggerated representations, to sever the ties of kindred and of friendship,
and become voluntary exiles to a far country, in search of a new and more prosperous home;
whilst in lieu of the promised streams and fertile plains, nothing in reality awaited them
but sterility--the certain loss of property, and the imminent risk of their lives.

(*Footnote. The reader will see my position, at this time, together with the track of the Beagle's
party, and that of Captain Grey's, laid down in one of the charts accompanying this work.)

(**Footnote. This testimony, one would have thought, was much too vague to justify the expression
of any decided opinion as to the capabilities of the country. Mr. Moore judged entirely from
a distant view with the naked eye: he could not discern the nature of the trees, does not assert
positively that the land was grassy, is unable to speak with certainty as to the existence
of sufficient water, and ventures only to draw the conditional conclusion that this district
MAY turn out to be the finest the colony can possess.

Mr. Bynoe, who accompanied me in my excursion over this part of the continent, writes as follows
respecting it: "There can be but one opinion of the country in the vicinity of the supposed
Port Grey, namely, that it is comparatively sterile. All the soil passed over, during our two
days' journey, was of a sandy nature; and the gumtrees, particularly in the open country, were
stunted and gnarled. Isolated clumps, however, of a taller, straighter, and smoother character,
were met with in the dried watercourses. Near Wizard Peak, the warran, or native yam seemed
to grow in great abundance, and to some considerable depth. There the soil could be pretty
well judged of; and the deeper the holes had been dug by the natives to obtain the root, the
more pure was the sand; it was only the surface soil that held decayed vegetable matter. Twice
during the trip, near the bases of cliffs, I saw a few acres of alluvial deposit, two very
circumscribed beds, which were lost in the bottom of a watercourse, sliding, as it were, gradually
under the sand. Near Moresby's Range, where the soil became freely mixed with ironstone and
pebbles, the vegetation was more stunted, consisting principally of a prickly bush, mingled
with coarse brown grass. During the whole time of our ramble, we saw only three kangaroos,
and five emus; and in some parts of the tall scrub were wallaby tracks.")

Descending, we found the party left below in the dry bed of a watercourse had failed in their
endeavour to procure water by digging; we, therefore, as we supposed, had no resource but to
return, exhausted as we were, to the brackish water-pools we had seen in the Chapman or Greenough.

NATIVE WELL AND BURIAL PLACE.

Happily, however, our dog discovered a deep hole under a drooping gum, which proved to be a
native well, and after clearing and digging deeper, afforded our thirst relief. The soil through
which this well was sunk was a light alluvial deposit, based on sand six feet below the surface.
Numerous native paths and deep holes, from which the warran root had been extracted, encircle
this spot; some neighbouring huts of a superior structure gave us snug quarters for the night;
Wizard Peak bearing South 50 seconds East about a mile distant.

At break of dawn we resumed our exploration. The morning was dull and cloudy, thermometer 59
degrees; on the previous day its greatest height had been 85 degrees. Two miles from our bivouac,
we fell in with a recent native grave--a circular pit three yards in diameter, filled within
a foot of the surface with sand, carefully smoothed over. Small sticks, some with red horizontal
marks painted on them, and others scraped, with the shavings tastefully twisted round, ornamented
the edge of the grave; a large semicircular fence fronted the south-east side; and the neighbourhood
bore evidence, in the shape of several destroyed huts, of its having been deserted by the companions
of the dead. After walking at least five miles, we again made the Chapman or Greenough, above
a mile south of the point at which we before met it, and pursuing its usual course between
South and South-South-West. The bed was still dry sand, but we found a small hole of brackish
water in a hollow. Crossing, we continued our west direction, and were surprised to find ourselves
again on the river; a line of red cliffs thirty feet high, forming the south bend, had changed
its course to the northward. We subsequently again crossed two dry parts of it; from an elevation
on the South-West side of the last, Mount Fairfax bore North 50 degrees East and Wizard Peak
South 58 degrees East.

RECOGNITION BEND.

Hitherto I had been in doubt whether this was the Chapman or Greenough of Captain Grey; but
here finding that a branch trended southwards, I was convinced it was the latter, and gave
this part the name of Recognition Bend, as it further led to my discovering that Captain Grey
had mistaken the hills in Captain King's chart,* and that, therefore, his description of the
country refers to another portion; and it is only justice to him to state, that considering
he was travelling for his life, and the great hardships he endured, it is surprising how the
information collected was obtained.

(*Footnote. This error Captain Grey candidly acknowledged in the following letter to me, afterwards
published by his authority in the South Australian Register.

Government House, Adelaide, January 28th, 1842.

My dear Sir,

I have attentively read your letter to the Honourable the Surveyor-General of Western Australia;
I have also considered the observations made by you to me, relative to the error you suppose
I have fallen into in mistaking the Wizard Peak of Captain King for the hill named by him Mount
Fairfax; and I find that I have certainly fallen into this error, a by no means unlikely one,
considering the very similar character of the singular group of hills, called Moresby's Flat-topped
Range, and the circumstances under which I was journeying. Consequently the country I have
described as lying near Mount Fairfax, lies near some other hill to the north of Mount Fairfax,
and the country I have described as lying near Wizard Hill lies near Mount Fairfax, being placed
from ten to twelve miles south of its true latitude.

The mistake arose thus: I carried Captain King's chart, and having only a Kater's compass with
me, on recognizing what I considered to be Mount Fairfax, I assumed the latitude of that hill
as laid down on the chart to be my true latitude, and made an entry in my journal accordingly.

On substituting the name of Mount Fairfax for Wizard Hill, the description of the small portions
of the country traversed by us in common, will be found to coincide almost exactly...I am,
my dear Sir, yours faithfully, G. GREY.

I need scarcely add, that Captain Grey having been obliged to assume his latitude, none of
his positions, during this harassing journey, can be expected to be accurate.)

MOUTH OF THE GREENOUGH.

From this point we proceeded one mile west over a dry, arid plain, covered with yellow and
white everlasting flowers of small growth: a little patch of woodland, consisting of a species
of wattle and a very small kind of gum, here delayed our progress. The ground beneath these
trees was entirely barren of vegetation; but emerging from them, we came upon the only piece
of grass of a useful nature seen in the route; it was, however, quite parched, and occupied
a space only of three or four acres. From thence to the coast dunes, to reach which we made
a detour to the South-West walking over about six miles of country, all was scrub and sand.
On the low ridge, lying immediately behind the coast range of sandhills, limestone occasionally
cropped out. Embarking, we proceeded in a boat to examine a small estuary, seen from Mount
Fairfax, at the northern part of the bay. This we found to be separated from the sea by a low
bank of sand, thirty feet wide and five high, over which the sea appeared in gales to enter;
but from the manner in which the sandhills overlapped at the mouth, it was not possible to
detect the entrance from seawards. We landed and traced it for a mile in an east direction,
until we proved it to be the mouth of the Greenough; the water was entirely salt, and the banks,
in some places seventy feet high, were composed of limestone. Near the head of this estuary
we discovered the place where Captain Grey crossed it, as described in the following extract
from his notes communicated to Lord John Russell, then Secretary for the Colonies.

CHARACTER OF COUNTRY.

"The character of the country again changed, and for the next two miles and a half the plains
were sandy, and covered with scrub. At the end of another mile we reached a river, about twenty-five
yards wide; it was salt where we made it, and it was so shallow, that we soon found a place
where, by jumping from rock to rock, we could cross it. This river discharged itself into a
bay;* it ran rather from the South of East. [East of South?] Four miles further, South by East,
were sandy plains, with scrub, etc."

(*Footnote. This was doubtless Champion Bay; but in our examination of the coast, we did not
see anything of the bay or harbour which Captain Grey speaks of in his work (volume 2 page
35) about nine miles north of the Greenough, and which he supposed to be Champion Bay, "since
denominated," he says, "Port Grey." According to the true latitude of Champion Bay, the bay
in question would be in about 28 degrees 38 minutes South or nearly twenty-two miles north
of the position assigned to Port Grey in Arrowsmith's map, before alluded to.)

Thus terminated our exploration of this part of the country, called, by Captain Grey, the Province
of Victoria; and certainly all we had seen of it deserved the character of sterility, which
in some measure it appears to retain further northward, as we learn from the report of Lieutenant
Helpman, who has recently visited it in the colonial schooner Champion. We did not, on our
route, fall in with any native, but on reaching the boat, found that a party of five men had
approached the beach, and held friendly communication with Mr. Pasco, who, in exchange for
a handkerchief or two, had obtained from them a hunger belt, composed of wallaby furs, a throwing
stick, and a nose-piece of kangaroo bone. They were entirely naked, and slightly scarred, but
were not smeared with the red pigment called wilgy, and had their hair knotted upon the crown
of their head, like the natives of the neighbourhood of King's Sound.

SAIL FROM CHAMPION BAY.

On the morning of the 16th we were again on our way southwards, with, strange to say at that
season of the year, westerly winds, which prevailed for the three succeeding days.

KOOMBANAH BAY.

After touching at Swan River (where, finding His Excellency the Governor still absent, an account
of our cruise was left with the Surveyor-General) we reached Koombanah Bay on the 27th. Mr.
Forsyth, whom I had sent overland, had completed the survey of this anchorage, and Leschenault
Inlet, which it joins in the south corner by a narrow boat channel. The wreck of a large whale
ship in the head of the bay shows the folly of attempting to ride out the winter gales to which
it is exposed; but this may be remedied by a breakwater thrown out from Point Casuarina, of
which nature has laid the foundation in the reef that extends out across the bay in the desired
direction. The strong outset from the estuary during the rainy season materially lessens the
strain upon the cables of ships caught there by a gale. The peculiarity in the formation of
this neighbourhood consists in some basaltic columns on the coast close to Point Casuarina.

We devoted the 28th to making observations,* etc.; and I was surprised to find that this part
of the coast was laid down four miles too much to the northward.

(*Footnote. These observations were made on the beach, midway between Point Casuarina and the
mouth of the estuary, which spot they place in latitude 33 degrees 19 minutes 10 seconds South
and longitude 0 degrees 7 minutes 00 seconds West of Swan River. From a sandhill, 190 feet
high, bearing South 11 degrees West, six-tenths of a mile from that spot, I found that the
highest part of the Darling Range, Mount William, bore North 40 degrees 6 minutes East thirty-three
miles, and was in height 1720 feet; and that Mount Leonard, another excrescence on this range
bore South 81 degrees 44 minutes East distant thirteen miles and seven-tenths, and was of an
elevation of 1270 feet; whilst the summit of Cape Naturaliste bore South 65 degrees West and
the visible extreme South 66 degrees 50 minutes West which confirmed the error I had before
remarked in the position assigned it in the chart, being four miles too far north. All the
above bearings are true. The rise of the tide, and the time of high-water, are the same as
at Swan River.

ARRIVE AT SOUTH AUSTRALIA.

Daylight, on the 29th, found us outside Koombanah Bay, running to the westward before a light
land breeze. From the offing, this part of the western shore of the continent was much more
prepossessing than any we had before seen. The outline of the Darling Range, here approaching
within fourteen miles of the sea, and broken only by Mount Leonard and the gorge of the Harvey,
was sharply pencilled against the eastern sky that glowed with the pure light of morning; whilst
the country between was clothed with trees of such magnitude that their verdant summits could
be seen, over the coast sandhills, stretching away in one sea of foliage as far as the eye
could reach.

The course we held led us within five miles of the north side of Naturaliste Reef,* in 29 fathoms;
the depth we found sixteen miles west of it was 60 fathoms, and half a mile south of it 26
fathoms. It partakes of the error in latitude previously discovered in Cape Naturaliste, which
is distant sixteen miles, and bears, when over the centre of it, South 2 1/2 degrees West (true).

(*Footnote. A circular patch of breakers half a mile in extent, with, according to report,
six and nine feet water on it.)

Being desirous of confirming our meridian distances along the south coast, we visited for the
purpose King George's Sound and South Australia, at which latter place we arrived on the morning
of January 26th, 1842. Since our former visit, a change had taken place in the governorship
of the colony; and though it was with great regret that we learnt Colonel Gawler had left for
England, we were glad he had found a worthy successor in our brother explorer Captain Grey.

His Excellency and the merchants expressing a wish that the Beagle should visit the port, no
man of war having yet done so; and being anxious myself to examine the capabilities of the
place, as well as to complete our survey of twenty-three miles of the eastern shore of Spencer's
Gulf, on the afternoon of the 29th the Beagle was running into Port Adelaide.* The ladies of
the Governor, the Surveyor-General, and others, honoured us with their presence on the passage
round.**

(*Footnote. Besides the light vessel off the bar at Port Adelaide, a flagstaff close to the
southward at the pilot station serves to point out the entrance to strangers.)

(**Footnote. I have already given some account of this port; and here, therefore, I need do
no more than refer the reader to the accompanying chart.)

PROPOSED RAILROAD.

It was the examination I made on this occasion of Colonel Gawler's excellent road between the
port and Adelaide, which convinced me that a portion of it might easily be converted into a
railroad, as there is sufficient width for a single line of rails without detracting from its
present value. That such an undertaking would prove of great advantage to the colony there
can be no doubt; and it is equally certain that it would be profitable to those engaged in
it. The exports and imports of South Australia are, year by year, rapidly increasing; and now
that its vast mineral resources have been discovered, and are in progress of development, no
bounds can be set to its probable wealth and prosperity. A railroad would be sure to attract
a large amount of traffic even at present. As, however, the Port of Adelaide only admits vessels
of moderate draught, large ships must discharge part of their cargo outside, or at Holdfast
Roads; between which place and Adelaide a railroad might also be carried without any difficulty,
there being a complete level the whole way.

VISIT MOUNT BARKER.

Being desirous of seeing a little more of this fertile part of the continent, I left Adelaide
accordingly, after sunset, on January 31st, for Mount Barker,* and before sunrise next day
visited its summit, nearly 1700 feet high, in order, if possible, to obtain a view in the clear
atmosphere of early morning of Lake Alexandrina, or Victoria, and the river Murray. In this,
however, I was disappointed, the weather being hazy in that direction, so that nothing could
be seen but the extensive scrub on the eastern side of the river, stretching away like a brown-coloured
sea. Mount Barker, which may be recognised by a saddle-shaped hill to the south of it, lies
about thirty miles South-East by East from Adelaide; the latter part of the road between is
hilly; from its foot a strip of very rich land, about one mile wide and three long, extends
to the south-west, in the direction of Willunga, on our way to which I noticed several similar
blocks. Following the southerly course of the Finnis, at that time a dry rich flat, we entered
a hilly picturesque country with deep fertile valleys. Tracks of wild cattle were numerous
on the ridges, but we saw none, and were again disappointed by the haze that prevailed throughout
the day, of a view of the surrounding country. In the evening we reached Willunga, distant
thirty-five miles from Mount Barker; though sight-seeing had taken us, during the day, over
fifty miles of country. This township is prettily situated at the western foot of the hills
on a woodland slope, bordered by the waters of the Gulf, at a distance of about six miles.

(*Footnote. Named after the unfortunate Captain Barker by his friend Captain Sturt.)

ENCOUNTER BAY.

Our party was to have been here joined by Governor Grey, who, however, did not arrive till
late next morning; when, after examining the slate quarries in the neighbourhood, where the
cleavage and quality equalled any I have seen in Wales, we left for Encounter Bay, bearing
nearly south-east. The first three miles of the road lay over stony ridges; and the next eighteen
traversed the worst part of the province, a sandy, scrubby, slightly undulating country, about
five hundred feet above the sea. We were glad to find ourselves descending from this wearisome
sterile tract upon some rich flats at the head of the river Hindmarsh, named after the first
governor of the colony. These we followed four miles in a South-South-East direction, where
meeting the river, its tortuous course led to the southward for about five miles. Where it
joins the sea, in the north-western corner of Encounter Bay, a township, also named Hindmarsh,
had been laid out, which will, doubtless, be a pleasant summer residence, as we felt a great
change in the temperature; indeed the evening was quite bleak, with a moderate breeze from seaward.

I was naturally much interested in this part of my journey, being anxious to see if the shelter
here existing merited the name, given in the chart, of Victor Harbour; but the only protection,
excepting for a small vessel in the north-west corner, and from northerly and westerly winds,
is under a little island, where it is possible one or two vessels may lie. From Hindmarsh I
saw the entrance of Lake Alexandrina, among some sandhills at the entrance of which Captain
Barker was murdered by the natives; a circumstance which gave rise to the name of Encounter
Bay, and attached a melancholy interest to the spot.

NATIVE MODE OF FISHING.

Here for the first time, I met a Murray River native among a party of others. He was certainly
the finest Australian in make I had ever seen, being robust and stout, like a South Sea Islander.
A German Missionary, who had a native school at Hindmarsh, took us to see a curious method
of catching fish resorted to at this place, which, as it has not been noticed by Mr. Eyre,
I shall describe. A party of natives, each provided with a large square piece of net, rolled
up, with a stick at either end, swam out to a certain distance from shore, and spread themselves
into a semicircle. Every man then relinquished one of the sticks round which his piece of net
was rolled, to his right-hand neighbour, and received another from his left; when, bringing
the two together, a great seine was formed. They now swam in, followed by other natives, who,
by throwing stones and splashing the water, frightened the fish, and prevented them from getting
out.

VISIT RAPID BAY.

Leaving Encounter Bay, we for some distance followed the left bank of the Inman, when the road
turned off to the westward. The country was good in patches, till we made a cattle-station
of Mr. Hacks, near Yankalilla Bay; when, instead of a succession of forested hills and dales,
we passed over extensive treeless downs, contrasting strikingly in appearance with the woody
country around. Here we pitched our tents for the night: and next morning were deprived of
the company of His Excellency, who was obliged to return to Adelaide; whilst Messrs. Macfarlane,
Burr, and myself, who were mounted from the station, went to Rapid Bay, lying about fifteen
miles South-West by West. As there was some difficulty in catching the horses, it was 10 A.M.
before we got away. I was by no means pleased with my mount; I had suspected that all was not
right by an exchange of looks, I caught the overseer and stockman indulging in, as I threw
my leg over as ugly a hammer-headed, standing-over brute as ever man crossed; but with the
aid of a severe bit and a sharp pair of spurs I kept him alive, and he only came down twice
during the journey, which, although over a very hilly country, was performed in four hours.
After taking some refreshment, we started at 4 P.M. for Adelaide, distant nearly sixty miles.

MOUNT TERRIBLE.

We crossed the Myponga; and led our horses down a winding path on the almost precipitous side
of Mount Terrible, well worthy its name, just as the sun was shedding his last rays over the
waters of the Gulf, that stretched away westward, apparently, from our feet; the white sails
of a coaster here and there dotting the blue expanse. Hitherto the road had been over a succession
of hills and dales, with occasionally a patch of pretty scenery; but from the foot of Mount
Terrible a level, lightly-timbered piece of country extended to the Unkaparinga, which we crossed,
passing through the township of Noarlinga, on its north bank.

After stopping to bait the horses, we continued our ride; but it was now so very dark that
I lost all the beauty of this part of the country, and from the undulations in the road I could
easily imagine that many a pretty glen was veiled from us by the darkness. Getting off the
track, we became entangled among some high five-railed fences, from which we were extricated
by the sagacity of my horse, belonging to the mounted police; on being given his head, he soon
brought us back upon the road to Adelaide, where we arrived about midnight, having ridden,
since 10 A.M., nearly ninety miles. We had scarcely reached the town before a hot wind set
in, which lasted forty-eight hours, when a squall from seaward relieved the gasping inhabitants:
at one time the thermometer at the public offices was 158 degrees.

SAIL FROM SOUTH AUSTRALIA.

We sailed from South Australia on February 7th, but it was not until the forenoon of the 9th
that we cleared Backstairs Passage, passing half a mile from the reef fronting the east end
of Kangaroo Island, in 16 fathoms; the south-eastern part of this island is a steep rocky shore,
with few sinuosities. Southerly winds brought us in sight of the land at daylight on the 11th.
The most remarkable features were Mounts Gambier and Schanck; the summit of the latter, the
least conspicuous, is flat, with a hollow in the centre. According to my observations, it is
in longitude 10 degrees 29 minutes West of Sydney. The ship's position, just before dark, was
ten miles North 65 degrees West from Cape Bridgewater, which is a hummocky cliff-faced point
of land, separated from the main by a low neck.

ARRIVE AT PORTLAND BAY.

February 12.

Finding ourselves still off this part of the coast, which was laid down three miles too much
to the northward, I resolved, for the better means of determining this fact by observations
on shore, to go to the nearest anchorage, Portland Bay, where we arrived in the evening. I
had another object in visiting this place, namely, that of helping to determine the 141st meridian,
which had been fixed on as the western boundary of the colony of New South Wales.

The approach to this anchorage is remarkable, and cannot escape the memory of anyone who has
seen it; for the information of those who have not, I give a woodcut.*

(*Footnote. Lawrence Isles lie off the point forming the south side of Portland Bay.)

Our anchorage was in 7 fathoms, midway between the bluff on either side of the settlement,
which we were surprised to find had already assumed the appearance of a town, lying in the
western corner of the bay, on a sloping grassy bank.

Here I met Mr. C.J. Tyers, government surveyor, who had laid out the township of Portland.
As he had also made an accurate survey of the Bay, little remained for us except to test its
qualities, which the prevalence of easterly winds gave us an opportunity of doing. They at
first caused a little anxiety, as the anchorage was exposed in this quarter; but this feeling
rapidly subsided on our discovering the excellence of the holding ground--mud with a coating
of sand, out of which we had some difficulty in weighing our anchors.

NEW SOUTH WALES BOUNDARY. SQUATTERS.

At Portland I had the pleasure of making the acquaintance of Mr. Stephen Henty,* the leader
of an enterprising family who had been the hardy pioneers of civilization, in discovering and
laying open the fertile districts of this part of the continent, and under whose fostering
care Portland has risen from a mere whaling station to its present prosperity. Such being the
case, it is with regret that I am obliged to say that Mr. Henty received no consideration from
Government when the land was put up for sale, being obliged to bid against the public for ground
he had brought under notice, and spent years of labour in getting into cultivation.**

(*Footnote. My observations refer to this gentleman's new house, which they place in latitude
38 degrees 20 minutes 45 seconds South and longitude 9 degrees 36 minutes 22 seconds West of
Sydney, by satisfactory meridian distances to the latter place, and from South Australia. Preferring
Mr. Tyers' difference of longitude by triangulation to the east entrance point of the Glenelg
River, 37 minutes 29 seconds, which is 1 minute 27 seconds more than his chronometric measurement;
the mouth of the Glenelg will be 10 degrees 13 minutes 51 seconds West of Sydney. By Mr. Tyers'
triangulation, calculated by Captain Owen Stanley from Port Phillip, Batman's Hill, with my
longitude of the latter 6 degrees 16 minutes 17 seconds West of Sydney, the Glenelg is West
of Sydney 10 degrees 14 minutes 02 seconds, which is 57 seconds less than Mr. Tyers' calculation.
The longitude of Sydney, by different observers, ranges between 151 degrees 12 minutes 0 seconds
and 151 degrees 17 minutes 0 seconds; but, as I myself believe 151 degrees 16 minutes to be
within a minute of the truth, the Glenelg will, accordingly, by my observations be in 141 degrees
02 minutes 09 seconds East and therefore within the New South Wales territory, the limit of
which it had been supposed to mark. If the 141st degree had been selected as the boundary of
the colony, with reference to the longitude of Sydney, there would not be much difficulty attending
its determination.)

(**Footnote. The squatter, who often at great risk locates himself in a remote spot, and renders
such essential service to the mother country by finding new lands, yea new homes, for the surplus
population, merits much greater encouragement than he receives, particularly in instances similar
to that of Mr. Henty, whose station at Portland was, for years, hundreds of miles removed from
other occupied parts. This gentleman's case makes it clear at once that something ought to
be done for the squatter. His comfortable house and garden he was obliged to leave to make
room for a street of the new township; but this would not have been very hard had he been given
an allotment in lieu; which, however, as I have stated, was not done; and he was compelled
to witness the labour of his hands entirely swept away, and found himself, after years of toil,
placed exactly in the same position with those who came to enjoy the fruits of his enterprise.

But the greatest hardship sustained by the squatter is the Special Survey system, according
to which, anyone desirous to become a purchaser to the extent of twenty thousand acres may
choose his land where he pleases. A party clubs together and finds out spots, that have been
improved by squatters, with a view of purchasing them when able; many of these are often included
in one special survey block: and even if the squatter is able to purchase the rich and hardly-won
small patch he occupies, the special survey party, generally a knot of jobbers, have the preference.
This is apparently for the benefit of the crown, twenty thousand pounds being thus added to
the revenue under the pound per acre system; but it is certainly not advantageous to the country,
as the large purchasers seldom buy for occupation, but for sale; and the smallholder, the squatter,
is driven from the land in distress. I have seen instances of persons being utterly ruined
in this way. My own opinion is, that the squatter ought to be allowed to purchase the land
he occupies by private contract from government; or that an allowance should be made him, equivalent
to his improvements.)

The detention we had experienced afforded me an opportunity of visiting the country; and having
just seen between two and three hundred miles of the Province of South Australia, I was glad
of the chance of comparing these two parts of the continent. Accordingly, after making a series
of magnetical observations, and others for the errors of the chronometers, I left Portland
one morning in company with Mr. Tyers. Taking Mr. Henty's road to the northward we soon passed
the rich land surrounding Portland, and entered a stringybark forest, eight miles in extent.
Then crossing a heathy tract we came to the Fitzroy, distant fifteen miles from Portland. Here,
as elsewhere, the presence of water improves the soil, for along the banks of the river there
was some good land. This was also the case near a hill just beyond it, called Mount Eckersley.
where I saw Sir Thomas Mitchell's initials cut in a tree at the time when he explored this
country, and found to his surprise that Mr. Henty had a station in Portland Bay.

EXCURSION INTO THE INTERIOR.

With the exception of the flats near the Crawford, twenty miles from the Fitzroy, the road
lies through a poor country, until it approaches Mr. J. Henty's station, fifteen miles further.
Here we appeared to have turned our backs on the bad land; and entered a tract of country in
which the herbage is so excellent that an acre is capable of feeding one sheep, whereas in
other parts three or four are required.

From a pointed hill, called the Sugarloaf, fifty-eight miles from Portland, I had an extensive
view of this fertile district: the outlines of those magnificent mountains, the Victoria and
Grampian ranges, that completed the distant part of the landscape, to the eastward, were distinctly
defined against the clear morning sky; whilst, in the foreground, grassy round-topped hills,
rose on either side of wide valleys sparingly dotted with trees, marking the course of the
streams that meander through them, and the margin of the singular circular waterholes, with
sides so steep as to render it necessary to cut through them to enable the cattle to drink,
that were distributed around as if formed by art, rather than by nature. Westward, I saw the
winding course of the Glenelg, and was told that some of the squatters had located themselves
on its banks, and that others were even talking of stations (which they have since made) as
far as the volcanic mountains, Schanck and Gambier, where there is some rich country, recently
visited from Adelaide, by Governor Grey, who has discovered that the barrier of desert between
New South Wales and South Australia, is less marked than was supposed; there being patches
of good land intervening, so that at no very distant day, we may hope to see the whole of the
coast, from Port Phillip to Spencer's Gulf, supporting a scattered white population.

I noticed that there was a vast superiority in the soil on the north-west side of the hills;
but saw none equal in richness to the five-mile patch at Mount Eckersley.

The steep sides of a part of the valley of the Wannon, however, a few miles to the eastward
of the Sugarloaf, are very fertile, and being clothed with patches of woodland, form extremely
pretty scenery. The rocks of this part of the country are chiefly trappean; in the immediate
neighbourhood of Portland, they consist of limestone, ferruginous sandstone, and trap.

CAPE BRIDGEWATER.

After having extended our ride to above seventy miles, we returned, having satisfied ourselves,
from what we had seen and heard, that there was a greater extent of good land here, than at
South Australia; though it was more scattered, and farther from the sea. On our way, we met
a party of natives; and seeing a bundle of spears leaning against a tree, I rode up to examine
them, but the owner instantly ran and seized them, in a manner that confirmed the report I
had before heard, to the effect, that the settlers and the aborigines of this part, either
through the mismanagement of the one, or the evil disposition of the other, are not on very
good terms.

February 17.

I went this day to Cape Bridgewater, to make a sketch of the coast, and visit some caves lying
four miles north of it. These we found to be from forty to fifty feet high, and of the same
depth; the ceilings were encrusted with stalactites and the mouths overlooked some pretty freshwater
lakes, three miles in extent separated from the sea by a narrow chain of sandhills; upon these
were a few swans, and a black and white kind of goose, one of which Mr. Bynoe shot; it resembled
the species we had seen flying over the Albert in the Gulf of Carpentaria.

ARRIVE AT HOBART.

February 20.

A slight cessation of the easterly wind allowed us to leave Portland Bay in the morning; but
scarcely had we got outside, when it blew strong again from the same quarter: accordingly,
it being highly desirable that I should consult with His Excellency, Sir John Franklin, before
we commenced the survey of Bass Strait, we proceeded direct to Hobart, where we arrived on
the 26th. The latitude of the south-west cape was determined on the passage to be 42 degrees
35 minutes South: and a running survey was made of the south coast of Tasmania.

Our stay in the Derwent, during which land and seabreezes prevailed, afforded me an opportunity
of comparing our compasses at the magnetic observatory, established since our last visit by
the Antarctic expedition, and left in charge of Lieutenant Key and Messrs. Dayman and Scott,
officers belonging to it. This place His Excellency, who took part in the observations made
there, named after the leader of the expedition, Ross Bank Observatory: I found it to be 20
seconds west, and 1 minute 10 seconds, north of the Beagle's observation spot in Fort Mulgrave.

Sir John Franklin, who has always taken great interest in the Beagle's voyage, testified every
wish to afford me assistance: and in the most liberal manner placed at my disposal the colonial
cutter, Vansittart, to assist in the survey of the Strait. Messrs. Forsyth and Pascoe were
selected for the service, the former being in command. After giving the Vansittart a slight
refit, and a few alterations which were expedited in a most praiseworthy manner by Captain
Booth, commandant at Port Arthur, she was to proceed to the scene of operations near Banks
Strait. In the meantime the Beagle sailed for Sydney to receive the stores we expected from
England.

ATMOSPHERIC CHANGES.

March 10.

This was our second day from the Derwent; but owing to the prevalence of North-East winds we
had not made further progress than to be at noon, thirty miles east from Cape Pillar. The atmospheric
changes during this day were curious. The morning broke hazy, with a moderate breeze from North-North-East,
which gradually subsiding and veering at the same time to East-South-East, left us becalmed
for three or four hours; thick impenetrable fogs meanwhile passed at intervals to the South-West;
and whenever this obstruction to our vision was removed, could be seen a dark heap of clouds
collecting, some of which detaching themselves passed rapidly over our heads. About three P.M.
there was the sighing of a breeze from that quarter. The barometer, also, at this time, ceased
falling and stood at 29.57, being as much as two-tenths lower than what it was an hour before,
and having fallen since eight A.M. four-tenths.

The rapid depression of the mercury was quite perceptible to the eye. Under reduced sail the
ship, like the petrel with closed wing, waited the coming blast. A dense fog enveloped us;
but an hour after the barometer had ceased falling, it lifted up and revealed a long sheet
of hissing foam crowning the troubled waters that were rolling, urged by the tempest, tumultuously
towards us from the south-west.

RETURN TO SYDNEY.

For a while the heavy reduced canvas still flapped with a lazy swag against the masts; but
suddenly it was filled by a violent gust; and the Beagle was hurried swiftly onwards, careering
over the waves like the misty spectre in a storm. Two hours after (six P.M.) the barometer
had risen a tenth. We now expected our passage to Sydney to be short: but the ill luck of foul
winds again attending us, it was the fifteenth before we arrived.

EXPLORATION OF INTERIOR.

The most interesting topic of conversation on our arrival at Sydney was the projected expedition
into the interior. Two candidates for this important and deeply interesting undertaking had
presented themselves--Mr. E.J. Eyre and Sir Thomas Mitchell, both experienced Australian explorers.
The latter proposed to start from Fort Bourke on the Darling; and the former from Moreton Bay.
In my own humble opinion, strengthened by recent experience, neither of these are practicable
routes;* or at any rate, they are not the best that could be selected. The centre of the continent
must be reached by the shortest possible journey; it being advisable to avoid the despondency
that seizes on a party during a protracted expedition, and to keep up throughout a certain
degree of excitement. As, therefore, the greatest indentation on the shores of the continent
is the Gulf of Carpentaria, the head of the Albert River, which discharges its waters into
the bottom of it, is unquestionably the best point of departure that could be selected, being
one-half the distance of Fort Bourke from the centre, and two-thirds nearer than Moreton Bay.

(*Footnote. Whilst this sheet was going through the press, the report of our greatest Australian
traveller, Captain Sturt, reached England; wherein he writes, speaking of his furthest (February
1845) in latitude 28 degrees South and longitude about 141 degrees 22 minutes East having apparently
entered the central desert, as follows: "I could see no change in the terrible desert to which
I had penetrated. The horizon was unbroken by a single mound, from north round to north again,
and it was as level as that of the ocean. My view to the north extended about eight miles,
but I did not venture to compass that distance, only perhaps to have overlooked a similar heart-rending
and desolate scene." This bears out the opinion expressed in the text. I do not hesitate, however,
in the face of the interesting evidence brought forward by Captain Sturt, still to doubt the
existence of an inland sea. I think the high temperature he experienced contradicts such an
hypothesis; and I believe the large expanse of water, reported by the natives, to be the Gulf
of Carpentaria, which bore about north (true) six hundred miles from his position, Moreton
Bay being nearly equidistant on an east bearing, whilst Adelaide bore South by West 1/2 West
about four hundred and thirty miles.

SUGGESTED ROUTE.

I have before recommended the use of camels, with skins for carrying water, in an undertaking
of this kind; and I may here add, that they might be procured in the neighbourhood of the Gulf
of Cutch,* which place the vessel should leave in the North-East monsoon, in time to have the
latter end of the North-West monsoon to take her to the Gulf of Carpentaria, where at Sweers
Island the final arrangements for disembarking, before alluded to,** could be made.

(*Footnote. Camels are to be procured in this neighbourhood, when they are not required for
war service, for about five pounds a head. Besides, the natives of that part are more easily
to be obtained as attendants than Arabs.

(*Footnote. See above.)

In a country like Australia, with so varied a surface, it is certainly impossible to indicate
with confidence anything beyond the point of departure for an exploring party. Their direction
must, of course, depend on the country they find; but I think it may be said from the most
recent, and I much fear melancholy, experience, that the routes from neither Moreton Bay nor
Fort Bourke are practicable. That from the head of the Albert is, I believe, much superior,
and I consider, after mature deliberation, that the plan I have recommended is at once the
most expeditious and the most economical way of solving a question of daily increasing interest,
and of removing an imputation on English enterprise which is daily becoming more serious.

The other routes of exploration which appear to me both practicable and useful are from Halifax
Bay to the Albert,* a distance of above four hundred miles, and from Limmens Bight to the Victoria,
about three hundred. These will be found marked in the chart accompanying this work.

(*Footnote. This route I suggested to his Excellency Sir George Gipps, in March, 1842.)

TWOFOLD BAY.

After leaving Sydney we had a succession of south-easterly gales, of three or four days' duration,
and equal in severity to any we had experienced since leaving England. To avoid one from the
westward we put into Twofold Bay;* a remarkable high-peaked hill, Mount Imlay, lying behind
the head of it, bearing South-West 1/2 West, leads in.

(*Footnote. This we found to be a very convenient anchorage; and the constant resort of coasters.
From its proximity to the southern parts of the Manero country, it is likely to become a very
thriving place, under the auspices of Mr. Boyd, who is erecting a town there. This gentleman,
I am happy to say, employs the natives as part of the crew of his yacht; they are also constantly
engaged in the boats of the whaling station, where their excellent eye renders them extremely
useful in seeing and harpooning the fish; and being particularly well-disposed, they might
he made something of.)

I was surprised to find by my observations* here that this part of the coast is laid down ten
miles too much to the eastward of Sydney, an error I subsequently found to be continued to
Jervis Bay; so that the course from thence to Sydney, instead of being, according to the chart,
North 1/4 East magnetic is North by East, a fact that should be borne in mind by masters of
vessels, until this part of the coast is properly surveyed.

(*Footnote. Which placed Point Brierly in latitude 37 degrees 6 minutes 40 seconds South, longitude
1 degree 18 minutes 18 seconds west of Sydney; or 149 degrees 57 minutes 42 seconds east of
Greenwich, according to what I consider the meridian of Sydney.)

The error I found in the position of Twofold Bay induced me to commence our survey there, for
the purpose of ascertaining the position of Cape Howe," which I discovered to be rather more
out in longitude; while the islet, instead of lying off it, lies four miles to the south-west.

(*Footnote. This Cape, in latitude 38 degrees 31 minutes 00 seconds South and longitude 1 degree
14 minutes 15 seconds West of Sydney, although rather low, is of bold approach, and admirably
situated for a lighthouse. Others erected on Montague Island and Point Perpendicular, would
light the whole coast as far as Sydney.)

FLINDERS ISLAND.

Leaving, we again spent several days under a close-reefed main-topsail and a reefed fore-sail;
but at length reached an anchorage on the eastern shore of Flinders Island within the north-east
side of a granitic lump called Babel Islet. The flood tide came from the north-east at this
anchorage, which can only be used in easterly winds. There is a curious dome on the inner side
of Babel, which is connected by a sandy spit with the large island. Within the eastern point
of the latter are the remarkable pyramidal hills, called the Patriarchs, rising out of a scrubby
plain, much cut up with lagoons, which forms the character of this side of Flinders. We were
enabled to fix the eastern shore of the island, from Babel Islet and the outer Patriarch, whence
the view was commanding. A range of bare-topped hills lies to the west, whilst to the south-west,
through a mass of clouds, we occasionally caught glimpses of some high peaks, which I named
after my friend Count Strzelecki. A heathy valley stretches across the island to the westward,
through which I saw the sea on the opposite side; on the northern part the hills are more rounded
and lower.

TO KENT GROUP.

From Babel Islet we proceeded towards Kent Group, passing, in 11 or 12 fathoms, along the eastern
shore of Flinders Island, where we discovered a dangerous sandy spit extending five miles off;
from its extreme the eastern part of the outer Sister bore North 64 degrees West, six miles
and a half. After rounding the latter the wind changed in a violent squall to the westward,
and gave us a long beat of a day to reach Kent Group, during which we discovered a reef,* just
awash at high-water, and bearing East 8 degrees South, five miles and a half from Wright's Rock.**

(*Footnote. Beagle's Reef.)

(**Footnote. A pyramidal lump, three hundred feet high, resembling a cutter under sail.)

This, Endeavour Reef, and a sunken rock, about a mile east of Craggy Island, constitute the
chief dangers between Kent Group and Flinders. The extremes are marked to the north and south
by Wright's Rock and Craggy Island, between which ships should not pass, although there is
a channel close to the south side of the former. It should also be particularly borne in mind
that the tides, which here sometimes run two knots, set rather across the channel South-West
by South and North-East by North. The north-easterly stream beginning a quarter before noon
at the full and change of the moon.

DANGEROUS SITUATION

The Beagle passed half a mile from the north-west side of Wright's Rock, in 29 fathoms, in
the evening; and having spent the night standing to-and-fro between it and Kent Group, in the
morning was abreast of the opening between the islands called Murray Pass, when we steered
towards it. The weather, for the season, was fine; and the sun, although weak, shone brightly
from a clear wintry sky--it well-nigh happened for the last time--upon the poor old Beagle!

The sea, still vexed and chafing from the breeze of yesterday, rolled in with solemn grandeur
on the storm-beaten sides of the islands; each heaving swell carrying the ship nearer towards
the almost fatal opening. Her motions, however, as if she was conscious of the fate that threatened
her, were sluggish and slow, and she seemed unwillingly to obey the impulse of the light southerly
breeze that aided her progress. Indeed there appeared to be an opposing tide until we drew
in between the high rocky sides of the channel, when suddenly the ship was hurried onwards
with such rapidity that to prevent our being swept past a cove on the right it was necessary
to close with its outer point, towards which a merciless eddy flung the ship's head so rapidly,
that before the thrown-aback sails checked her way, her jib-boom was almost over the rocks.*
During the few awful moments that succeeded, a breathless silence prevailed; and naught was
heard but the din of waters that foamed in fury around, as if impatient to engulf us in their
giddy whirl. Still, it must be confessed, that our hearts sickened within at the thought that
our little bark, after having braved so many storms, and done so much good service to the state,
might be left to whiten a foreign shore with her timbers. Providence, however, decreed it should
be otherwise; and the next moment the Beagle's head was slowly paying off from the shore. But
her broadside becoming exposed to the swell, she was again driven in towards the point, and
so close, that before the well-trimmed sails gave her way, as her stern went down with the
swell, the assurance that she must strike, pervaded every shuddering frame. To myself, the
sensation was just as if my feet were under the keel; and I almost expected to feel the bones
crushing. Still we clung to hope, which can find a place even in the narrowest interval of
danger; and our eyes and hearts were lifted up in supplication to Him who had already so miraculously
reprieved us. Scarcely, however, had the prayer been formed and preferred, when the peril was
past: in the course of an hour we were safely moored in East Cove, Kent Group.

(*Footnote. See the view annexed.)

LIGHTHOUSE HILL.

