       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR.

AND

LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRONICLES OF THE CANONGATE.

[Ecce iterum Crispinus!--We intend to continue our notice of the above work in a series of
snatches, or portraitures, for which mode (from its varied and detached character) it is perhaps
better calculated than any of its predecessors. Our anticipatory anxiety in selecting the Two
Drovers was a forcible illustration of the maxim, Qui dat cito, dat bis; for the extent occupied
by the portion already quoted and its interruption, with the immense influx of works recently
published, have somewhat interfered with our arrangements. In "the Introduction" to the "Chronicles,"
Sir Walter Scott avows the authorship of the Waverley Novels, and recapitulates the explanation
which took place at the Theatrical Fund Meeting, at Edinburgh, in July last.

Waverley.--The sort of exchange of gallantry between the Baron of Bradwardine and Col. Talbot
is a literal fact. [For the real circumstances of the anecdote, we must refer our readers to
the "Introduction" itself. It was communicated to Sir Walter by the late Lord Kinedder.]

Guy Mannering.--The origin of Meg Merrilies, and of one or two other personages of the same
cast of character, will be found in a review of the Tales of my Landlord in the Quarterly Review
of January, 1817.

Legend of Montrose.--The tragic and savage circumstances which are represented as preceding
the birth of Allan Mac Aulay, in the "Legend of Montrose," really happened in the family of
Stewart of Ardvoirloch.

WALTER SCOTT.

Abbotsford, Oct. 1, 1827.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

"I am but a Gatherer and disposer of other men's stuff."--Wotton

       *       *       *       *       *

NEGRO PUN.

At the late fancy ball in Liverpool, a gentleman who had assumed the swarthy hue of a "nigger,"
was requested to favour the company with Matthews's song--"Possum up a gum tree."--"Non possum,"
replied the wit.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SPIRITS" OF THE MAGAZINES.

Is it not diverting to see a periodical supported, not by the spirits of the age, but by the
small beers, with now and then a few ales and porters? Yet we doubt not that one and all of
the people employed about the concern may be, in their way, very respectable schoolmasters,
who, in small villages, cannot support themselves entirely on their own bottoms,--ushers in
metropolitan academies, whose annual salary rarely exceeds twenty pounds, with some board,
and a little washing--third-rate actors on the boards of the Surrey or Adelphi, who have generally
a literary turn--a player on the hautboy in some orchestra or other--unfortunate men of talent
in the King's Bench--a precocious boy or two in Christ's hospital--an occasional apprentice
run away from the row, and most probably cousin of Tims.

Blackwood's Mag.

After this specimen of "Contributors" who would be an Editor? It is a fair sample of more than
one "paralytic periodical:" our readers must bear in mind a certain point of etiquette about
"present company."

       *       *       *       *       *

FRAMEWORK OF SOCIETY.

"It is curious," says the London Magazine, "to imagine what the society of New South Wales
may be two thousand years hence. The ancestors of a portion of our proud nobility were thieves
of one kind, the chieftain of ruder times being often nothing better than a well-established
robber. And why may not the descendants of another kind of thieves glory equally in their origin
at some distant day, and proudly trace themselves to a Soames and a Filch, and dwell with romantic
glow, on their larcenous deeds? A descendant of Soames may have as much pride in recalling
the deeds of that distinguished felon in the Strand, as a descendant of a border chief has
in recounting his ancestors levies of blackmail."--Pope might well say--

  "What can ennoble sots, or fools, or cowards,
  Alas! not all the blood of all the Howards"

       *       *       *       *       *

SEEING IS BELIEVING.

In South America, the whole population is equestrian. No man goes to visit his next door neighbour
on foot; and even the beggars in the street ask alms on horseback. A French traveller being
solicited for charity by one of these mounted petitioners, at Buenos Ayres, makes the following
entry in his note-book.--"16th November. Saw a beggar this morning, who asked alms of me, mounted
on a tall grey horse. The English have a proverb, that says--'Set a beggar on horseback, and
he'll ride to the devil!' I had often heard this mentioned, but never saw one upon his way before."

Monthly Mag.

We remember to have seen in Paris a man in a sort of chaise, grinding an organ, drawn by two
ponies, and followed by a boy--begging from house to house. From the faded livery worn by the
boy, we set the whole down as a burlesque.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHADOW CATCHER.

I was present, some years ago, at the trial of a notorious obeah-man, driven on an estate in
the parish of St. David, who, by the overwhelming influence he had acquired over the minds
of his deluded victims, and the more potent means he had at command to accomplish his ends,
had done great injury among the slaves on the property before it was discovered. One of the
witnesses, a negro belonging to the same estate, was asked--"Do you know the prisoner to be
an obeah-man?"--"Ees, massa, shadow-catcher, true." "What do you mean by a shadow-catcher?"--"Him
ha coffin, (a little coffin produced,) him set for catch dem shadow." "What shadow do you mean?"--"When
him set obeah for summary, (some body,) him catch dem shadow and dem go dead;" and too surely
they were soon dead, when he pretended to have caught their shadows, by whatever means it was
effected.

Barclay's Slavery.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FUNDS.

John Kemble being present at the sale of the books of Isaac Reed, the commentator on Shakspeare,
when "a Treatise on the Public Securities" was knocked down at the humble price of sixpence--the
great tragedian observed, "that he had never known the funds so low before."

       *       *       *       *       *

TEMPUS EDAX RERUM.

  "Time is money," Robin says,
    'Tis true I'll prove it clear:
  Tom owes ten pounds, for which he pays
    in Limbo half a year.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON JACK STRAW'S CASTLE, HAMPSTEAD HEATH, BEING REPAIRED.

  With best of food--of beer and wines,
    Here may you pass a merry day;
  So shall "mine host," while Phoebus shines,
    Instead of straw, make good his hay.

J. R.