---------------------------------------------------------------   
Physical conditions: Local irritation.       Case 16.             
                                      Girl, age 9 1/2.            
   Housing conditions:  Crowded.                
        Early sex experiences:  Excessive and pervert.            
             Parental control failure:  No home, no mother.      
Delinquencies:                     Mentality:      
Serious false accusations.            Good ability.  
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 17

Summary:  Boy of 16 years, not living at home, made false accusations of excessive immorality
against his own family.  These involved sex perversions, and he implicated even his own sister
and brother, and alleged the connivance of his mother.  The main complaint was against the
step-father, who he also said was a professional thief.  The improbability of such stories
being told without good foundation led to much time being spent on investigating the case.

As possible causative factors of the unmitigated lying we found (a) defective heredity leading
to (b) typical constitutional inferiority with the peculiar states of mind characteristic of
the latter, (c) poor developmental conditions through early illnesses; (d) excessive bad sex
practices on the part of the boy himself.  Vindictive reaction to charges of delinquency against
himself might be considered a factor if his false accusations had not been made without any
such stimulus a long time previously.

(According to another classification this case belongs in our chapter on Border-line Types.
It is retained here because it so well illustrates pathological accusation.)

John S., an undersized boy of 16, a pitiable specimen, when under arrest for vagrancy told
such a heartrending story of home conditions, with assertions against family morality, that
the judge and others were moved to indignation and an investigation was started.  The general
feeling was that no one who was not insane could make such statements about their nearest of
kin without foundation in fact.

We found a poorly developed, but fairly nourished young fellow; weight 112 lbs., height 5 ft.
2 in.; good strength for his size.  Stigmata: slight facial asymmetry, ears very long and narrow,
dentition very irregular--one upper canine having erupted behind the central incisors.  Tattooing
on the chest.  Vision defective, but how much so was impossible to estimate on account of corneal
ulcer and general gonorrheal ophthalmia.  Gait and attitude very slouchy.  In contrast to general
poor development, has already full sex development and much hair over body for his age.

On the mental side we found an excitable and talkative fellow, quite coherent, and giving in
no way any indication of aberration by the form or trend of his conversation.  He tells us
he reached the 6th grade.  He willingly works on tests and we note the general result as follows:
Learning and memory processes, both for logical verbal and for meaningless associations, quite
good.  Perception of form, normal.  Power of analysis of situations mentally represented, only
mediocre.  Associative processes, verbal, not normally accurate.  Writes good hand.  Simple
spelling correct.  Arithmetic correct for 4th grade.  Tests for several other points hardly
fair to register on account of defective eyesight.  On one he failed because of not knowing
the alphabet in order.  Suggestibility extreme, as evidenced by testimony test.  In giving
report on the ``Aussage'' picture, Test VI, he enumerated 12 items, 11 of them correct, on
free recital.  Then he gave 11 more details, all correct, on cross-examination, but he accepted
no less than 7 out of 8 suggestions offered.

Information on current events is good, but on points said to have been learned at school is
much mixed up.  In giving responses to questions, he seized on any slight suggestion and adopted
the idea.  For instance, he said he had read the life of Napoleon, but could not remember to
which country he belonged.  When England was suggested he agreed to it.  He then told various
wrong incidents of Napoleon's life and death, also as suggested by the examiner.  It finally
came out that Bonaparte was an English nobleman who fought against France and Waterloo, was
never defeated, and got sick in England.  Then in the same way we get the information that
this country gained its freedom from France, that Lincoln was president directly after Washington,
and so on.  John has read books from the library and various magazines, a considerable assortment.
He knows almost nothing of even simple scientific facts, but is well acquainted with items
gained from the newspapers and the theatres.

Going into his story, as we were requested, we heard at once about the cruel conditions at
home.  The boy's own father had been dead for ten years and up to within three years he had
lived with a relative.  While he was there letters indicated that queer things were going on
at home, and the step-father was cruel to the other children.  The mother was afraid to tell
the whole story.  When the boy came home the step-father at once began pervert sex practices
with him, horrible things, and John found this man had been doing deeds of the same kind with
an older sister and a younger brother.  It seems the step-father also beats the children and
has put this older girl out of the house.  Recently he has left his wife.

When we go into John's own record, with which we had already made ourselves acquainted, he
tells us he does not know what gets into him, but he has run away from home no less than eleven
times.  He works for a while, takes his wages and then stays at a hotel.  He says he has been
arrested several times on this account.  His mother always telephones to the police about him
and that is why he is under detention now.  He wishes he were at home.  The next day we went
into more of the details which had been liberally sketched to the judge and other officials.
We now learn that the step-father is a professional thief and that stolen goods he has taken
are to be found in their home.  He often leaves home and perhaps takes his wife's wages--she
has to work out--and just now is again living at a hotel.  The family have been informed by
a physician that he is probably crazy.

On a later occasion the boy told my assistant that he wished to relate the whole story of his
family.  He then describes how the step-father even blackens the eyes of the sister and that
he has long been immoral with her.  It now appears that perversions began between this man
and John some two months ago, never before that.  The mother is there in the house all the
time and knows about and permits the step-father's immorality with daughter and son.  Cross-questioned
afterward, the boy (evidently remembering what he said before) states these practices with
him began the night he came home three years ago, but they had been going on with his sister
before that.  He knows this because his mother wrote and told him about it.  His uncle wrote
and told her to put a stop to it, but the step-father intimidates her with a revolver.

Our notes state that one afternoon when tests were being given him, John seemed to be in an
excited state and often interrupted the procedure with talking.  Seen in the hallway soon afterwards
he waved his hand and insisted on telling more about home conditions and about what the officers
would find if they went up there.  On still another occasion he reiterated the same things,
giving many details. 

It was about this time that John was found to give strangely fantastic and childish accounts
of circumstances with which he had been connected.  We transcribe his story of a celebration
at a school--it is a good example of his tales.

``They had it on Lincoln's birthday and on the 4th of July, too.  The teacher did not believe
that Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves.  The children said, oh yes, he did.  But they did not
believe it.  The children all hollered and said yes, he did.  Then they all run up on the platform
and got to fighting about it.  The teachers would not believe that Lincoln freed the slaves
till an old soldier came up there and told them yes, he did do it.''  I questioned him about
this matter whether it was only a play they had, or were they in earnest.  ``Oh, all in earnest
and they had a fight about it.  The teachers would not believe that Abraham Lincoln freed the
slaves and the children all run up on the platform and had a fight about it.''

Home conditions were next looked up by a court investigator and we came to know the mother
and sister.  Much to our surprise we found them to be quite self-respecting, entirely credible
people of good reputation in the neighborhood.  The mother is an honest hard-working woman
and is exceedingly depressed about the career of this boy.  The sister is a modest and unquestionably
good, self-supporting, young woman.  Not a word was heard against them in any way.  In their
distress they gave us the full story.

The parents were immigrants when young.  The father died through an accident some ten years
previously.  The mother has kept track of the members of both families fairly well.  She had
a sister insane, said to have become so as the result of the menopause.  The father himself
had occasional attacks of epilepsy, but they were never frequent enough to hinder him working
as an artisan.  He was a very moderate user of alcohol.  The mother has always been fairly
healthy.  Thinks she now has a cancer.  There are no other significant points in heredity that
she knows.  There are three living children; a number of miscarriages came after John was born.

The pregnancy and birth were, normal.  John walked and talked very early.  Never any convulsions.
At about two years of age he was very low with a complication of diseases.  He was sick at
that time for three months.  Later he was operated on for rupture.  The trouble with his eyes
is of recent origin.  When he was a young boy in school a teacher once told her she did not
consider him right mentally.

There has been an exceeding amount of trouble with this boy.  He was a great truant and reached
only the 4th grade.  When he was living with the uncle he caused much trouble, and the uncle
warned her.  He has run away from home twelve times, stays away perhaps two weeks at a time,
and comes home ragged and filthy.  He has had many jobs, but stays only a day or two at work.
He steals in petty ways, takes money from home when he runs away.  He is very lazy, but a great
reader, especially of cheap novels.

Among the troubles with this boy is his extremely filthy talk.  He has even lost one position
on account of this.  An aunt caught the boy in bad sex practices several years ago and told
the mother.  Neighbors, and earlier the school people, warned the mother that this was what
was the matter with the boy.  About a year ago John was found in a room with a man and other
boys engaged in bad practices.  The man was sentenced to a long term in the penitentiary on
account of it.

Worst of all, the mother says the boy is the most malicious liar she has ever heard of.  They
have had a frightful time with him on account of this.  For over two years John has been telling
bad stories about the step-father.  Recently he could not stand it any longer and left the
mother.  He was a good and rather strict man who took much interest in the children.  He tried
rewards with John, but this was of no avail.  The boy has destroyed the home life, but she
thought it her duty to try further with her own flesh and blood.  The sister is in utter despair
about what John has said concerning her.  The younger brother also feels great humiliation.
The boy has told his worst stories about them even in their own neighborhood.

After our investigation the boy was sent to an institution for delinquents where he could have
the best of treatment for his ailments.  The report from there after a few months was that
he proved to be an exceedingly weak and vacillating type.  He was notorious for being a boy
that would do anything that was suggested to him.  An outlook was kept for signs of insanity,
but none was noted.

Over three years later we hear that John's character has not shown any radical change as demonstrated
by his mode of living.  He has served at least one term in a penal institution for adults.
We do not know anything further about lying or false accusations in the case.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Constitutional inferiority:  Stigmata.       Case 17.             
                               Mentality.   Boy, age 16.          
       Heredity:  Father epileptic.                
                 Maternal aunt insane.           
        Masturbation plus.                
         Pervert sex experiences.                     
           Developmental: Much early illness.      
Delinquencies:                Mentality:      
False accusations excessive.       Dull from physical     
Running away repeatedly.           causes (?).      
Stealing.                     Beginning psychosis (?).      
Sex perversions.              Pathological liar (?).     
Vagrancy.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 18

Summary:  Little girl of 7 makes false charges of sex assault against boy in the same institution.
She is later found to be an excessive liar and to steal.

Causative factors: (a) atrociously immoral home environment, (b) early sex experiences, (c)
local irritation from active gonorrhea.

This case illustrates the fact that a young girl, who has had unfortunate sex experiences,
especially if her mind is kept dwelling on sexual subjects through bodily irritation, is apt
to take advantage of the stir which she knows she can make by her statements, and glibly make
false accusations.  The case offered no difficulties for study and can be presented in short
as typical of a number of similar cases seen by us.

We were asked to see this girl a few days after she had been taken from very bad home conditions
and temporarily placed in a good institution for dependent children.  While there she had much
upset the high-minded superintendent and her helpers by stating that an older boy in the place
had sex relations with her.

She was a small, bright-eyed, vivacious child.  General physical conditions decidedly good.
No sensory defect.  Well shaped head.  Weight 55 lbs.; height 4 ft.  Active gonorrheal vulvovaginitis.

On the mental side we found, although she spoke in somewhat broken English, an ardent conversationalist.
With her many ideas about many subjects, she appeared decidedly precocious.  We noted her also
to be very defiant and self-assertive, and her tendency to lie without rhyme or reason was
soon discovered.  Her exact age never was ascertained, but undoubtedly it was about 7.  She
was in the 2d grade.  At times when doing the Binet tests inhibitions would appear and she
would give no answer at all even to some easy questions.  Her positive responses graded her
as 6 2/5 years, but undoubtedly she could have done much better had she so wished.

In her talkative way she used English very graphically, but with curious misuse of pronouns
and a few other words.  Considering the fact that her family spoke a foreign language at home
and she had been but a short time in school this was not strange.  Her lack of veracity was
shown even in her assertions about her inability to understand English.  At the first approach
she denied her ability to do so, but later showed that she understood very well.  This behavior
was of a piece with her attitude shown in doing the Binet tests.

``Police bringed me.  Don't know why.  Cause my father run away, she don't want to stay with
my mother.  My father Austrian.  Sometime my father talk Italian.  Then God make him sick cause
she talk Italian.  My neck is sick.  I go to Italian church and I talk Italian and God makes
me sick.

``They bringed me home to-day, then they bringed me back here, then I stay here all along.''
(What is the matter with you?)  ``A big boy--up in school--upstairs--don't know his name. 
I came Saturday.  She came Saturday.  She came Sunday, too.  When we come to listen to music
then she gave to me that disease.

``Papa is bad.  She run away.  She run away.  She take from my mama $12--all the clothes. 
She got another lady.  Is that your lady?  Why do you write?  I could write better than you
because I go to school all the time.  I never take money.  I Catholic and Catholic can't tell
lie.  Well, I going to tell the truth now.  I found it in bed, in paper inside.  Then I give
it to teacher and then I give it to nurse.  I never tell lies.''

Before we had seen her this child had given some sort of description of a big boy in the institution
who she said had assaulted her.  There was no such person there, but her vehement statements
caused much disturbance.  Later she denied this to us and accused somebody at her own home.
She came from miserable environment, as may be surmised from the fact that her father was a
deserter and probably immoral.  On account of her unreliability nothing could be done in the
way of prosecuting the offender.  We always felt it a possibility that some member of her own
family was guilty and that was the reason she had told so many different tales about it.  An
owner was not found for the money which she had stolen.  The person from whom she said she
had taken it had not lost it.  She took it under conditions when she had no chance to spend
it.  Her excessive lying was a continual source of trouble as long as she was kept in this
institution.  She was long treated in a public hospital for her gonorrhea.  Since then she
has been lost track of.  It is interesting in this case to note that the child maintained that
she belonged to a church, which made it impossible for her to tell lies.  We have heard almost
exactly this same assertion on numerous occasions.  It is clearly made by way of affirmation
when the offender covertly feels the need of bolstering up false statements.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Early sex experiences.                       Case 18.             
    Bad companions.                         Girl, age 7.          
      Physical conditions:  Local irritation.                     
        Home conditions:  Father immoral and                      
                         deserter.                                
           Heredity(?):  Father as above.      
Delinquencies:                          Mentality:      
Stealing.                                  Fair ability.      
Sex.      
Lying.      
False accusations.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 19

Summary:  Girl of 18 made accusations to officials that a lawyer for whom she worked had been
immoral with her.  About the same time it was found that she herself had been stealing and
lying about other matters.  Later, when there was reiteration of the charges, a physician's
examination showed that she had not been immoral.  Some months afterward she went to other
officials and insisted she ought to go to a reform school.  A year still later she did have
sex experiences and contracted venereal disease.  Her succeeding record is totally different.
For several years now she has been a young woman of thoroughly good character.

In its progress, after extended exhibition of exceedingly erratic conduct, to complete stability
now long observed, this case is of considerable interest.  It was after some months of effort
on the case by experienced social workers that we were asked to study this girl.  We found
no difficulty in rapidly becoming intimately acquainted with her conditions and troubles.

Physically she was a normally developed young woman of distinctly good strength, but slouchy
attitude.  In expression rather dull and pleasant; laughs much in rather childish way for her
age.  Weight, 110 lbs.; height, 5 ft. 2 1/2 in.  No sensory defect.  Good color.

Mentally we gave her a wide variety of tests with the result, in general, that she did well
on them.  She had left school at 14 years when in the 7th grade, but had not forgotten what
she had learned.  Her arithmetic was done very well indeed and she wrote a very good hand.
The tests, which brought her abilities in many directions into play, were done almost uniformly
well.  Her memory processes were distinctly good and showed her capacity by her remembering
logical connections as well as details.  Her casuistic responses which were asked for in two
moral situations, verbally presented, Test XXI, were rather vacillating, but evidently sound.
It was easy for her to appreciate the intricacy of the situation.

On the ``Aussage'' experiment, Test VI, out of 15 details given as remembered from the picture
just seen two were imaginary, and of 9 more items given on cross-examination two were erroneous.
Her account as given was functional, not at all enumerative as in the usual childish fashion.
Out of 6 suggestions proffered she accepted 4.  This was a poor result for a person of her
age.  Her range of information was normal.  Her interests while at home had been very simple;
for instance, she had not been allowed to read novels nor go to theatres.  In all our work
on tests and in our several interviews with her we never discovered any signs of aberrational
tendencies.  Her social conduct furnished the only evidence of erraticism.

This young woman's mother, who is said to have been a normal person, died a few months before
we knew her daughter.  She had long been ill and consequently had had very imperfect control
over her daughter all through adolescence.  The father had been dead for several years previously;
he was a storekeeper in a small way, fairly educated and non-alcoholic.  No other family history
of importance was ever forthcoming.  There was only one other child in the family, a younger
brother, who was quite normal.  Outside of bronchitis during infancy it was said this girl
had never had any serious disease.  In the last few months there had been much complaint about
suffering at the menstrual period.  Menstruation began at 13 years of age and was said to have
been regular until seven months or so prior to the time when we first saw her.  However, this
latter statement was made by the girl herself and at this stage her word was not particularly
reliable.

When we began study of this case we were put in possession of the following notes made by an
unusually competent social worker, extending over the previous nine months.  Attention was
first drawn to her when she was living with someone who had offered to give her a home while
her mother was mortally ill in a hospital.  She then had clothing and trinkets the possession
of which she could not satisfactorily explain.  It was discovered that she was lying.  It was
about this time that the girl told her friends that she had been immoral, and accused a man
for whom she had worked of being responsible for her downfall.  She had also been flirting
with a married man who had been talking to her about eloping with him.  It was learned that
she stayed all one night at a downtown hotel, but probably alone.  Further investigation showed
she had stolen a considerable sum of money from an acquaintance and also a watch.  Then a physical
examination was made and a certificate given that the girl had not been immoral.

Much trouble was taken about the case in the ensuing year, the notes naively say, ``object
being to see if the girl could not be reclaimed.''  She was given an unusually good opportunity
with a sterling family.  She made much trouble for them and others who were interested in her.
Her mother died early in the period.  On a number of occasions she left her place and stayed
away all night, sometimes walking the streets.  On one occasion she is reported to have gone
to a certain agency, looking as if she had been recently intoxicated, and appealed to be sent
to a reform school.  She was taken in by the police on one occasion.  We first saw her after
she had been living in this good home for several months.

At the same time we studied her physical and mental conditions we attempted to make some analysis
of her self-orientation.  She maintained then that her main trouble was because she had got
mixed up with this married man.  She declared he threatened her.  (This was very likely from
what was discovered about his character.)  She had very good words for the officials who had
helped her so much.  She told us how she had stolen a matter of $100 or so.  When we questioned
her about her early accusations she said that she did tell a lot of lies when her case first
was looked into.  ``I thought they were too inquisitive.  I thought if I told them a few lies
they would leave me alone.  Everybody has to know everything.  I forget half of what I'm to
say.  I don't know why I stole that watch.  I would have brought it back home if he had not
taken it on me.  I never told anybody that I wanted to go to the reform school.  I was afraid
to go home because I was afraid I would get a good scolding.  I think I have told all the truth
to the officers since the first.  I was ashamed to tell it, that's the whole truth.  That's
the truth, there was no one with me this other night.  I did not meet a soul I knew.  I went
out to the South Park.  I had never been there before.  Where I have been living they would
not let me go out anywhere.  I had to stay there Sundays and all the time.  When I got out
I was worse than a wild calf.  Maybe if I went out oftener I would not be so bad.  I am here
now because I went to the police station and told them I would not go home.  It was late and
I was afraid to go home.  I had stayed out on the street all night.  One night I went home
and it was all dark and I was afraid to ring and I stayed on the street all night.  I was on
the street all the next day too.  I went to the cemetery.  Late that afternoon I met a young
man and stayed talking to him and a detective came along and told us we shouldn't stand there.
I never did anything bad with any man.  I never said so.  A visiting nurse told me the dangers
of life.  My mother told me I should be careful.  Oh, I worked for that lawyer before my mother
died.  I worked for him about two weeks and he did not pay me what he owed me.  No, he never
did me any harm.  A man came along with a lady from that office and he asked me some questions
and I was so scared because I thought they were going to lock me up.  I guess that was the
question maybe and I said, yes, but I did not know just what it was.''

It was after this that the girl gave much trouble because of queer little trickery concerning
some insurance papers, and about losing some money.  Her friends wasted much time in the endeavor
to get these matters adjusted.  The family she was with thought she was very childish for her age.

Our opinion as dictated at this time was that the girl was physically and mentally all right,
but that she showed a decidedly childish reaction towards the world and was very suggestible
and unreliable.  We knew many more facts about her which proved these points.  Our judgment
set down was that she was an unstable adolescent with possibility of showing very different
characteristics inside of a year or two.  We noted she had a weak type of face.

She was seen four months later, after a period of having run away twice for several days at
a time.  On inquiry she maintains she was impelled to do it by her own feelings of restlessness
and general dissatisfaction.  She thought the people with whom she lived were very nice and
only strict as they should be.  There was some question raised about this time about the periodicity
of her impulsions, but except for her own statement that it was just before her menstrual time,
nothing definite was proved.  On the last occasion she did pick up with a young man and was
immoral with him.  She stayed out in a hallway all night.  A venereal disease was then acquired.
This was speedily treated in a hospital and the girl was found another place.  Three years
have elapsed, and during the time this girl has continued under the observation of one of her
old friends.  She has remained steady and trustworthy, and shows no tendency whatever towards
untruthfulness or evasiveness.  She has lived in one good home for two years and the people
are deeply attached to her.

--------------------------------------------------------------
Adolescent impulses:  Lack of self-control.     Case 19.          
      Sex temptations.  resisted.               Girl, age 18.     
          Lack of parental care.                     
             Deficient interests:  Both mental and                
                        recreational.      
Delinquencies:                          Mentality:      
False accusations.                           Good ability.     
Stealing.      
General lying.      
Staying away from home.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 20

Summary:  A girl of almost 16 years, of attractive and innocent appearance, alleged that she
had been leading an immoral life and frequenting houses of assignation.  She told the story
to the people of her church, who were naturally horrified and demanded a thorough investigation
of the social vice problems involved.  This was undertaken by the police authorities, but they
failed to get any satisfactory evidence from the girl.  It was later found that the story was
all a myth and the girl had not been in the least immoral.  Her first statements followed directly
after her attendance at an emotional revival meeting where these topics had been preached about.
Afterward this girl was in court many times for various reasons.  She is a mild psychoneurotic
type, exhibiting under stress unusual mental phenomena.  She and her family have created an
astonishing amount of trouble in law courts as both defendants and complainants, because their
peculiar unreliabilities have not been understood.

This case has long been under observation and we have much information concerning it.  It was
found difficult to understand by pastors and others who had given considerable attention to
various aspects of it.  Annie F. was first seen by us when under custody because of her own
statement that she had been leading an immoral life.  We have seen her and members of her family
many times since.  The account of the case can best be given, not by commencing with the cross-section
study as obtained at first, but by going at once into its whole connections and evolution.
At first it was merely learned that we had to do with an unstable, adolescent girl who had
engaged for apparently no purpose whatever in false self-accusations which would naturally
blight her career.

On the physical side we found a rather slight girl, however, of normal development.  Weight
102 lbs.; height 5 ft. 3 in.  No organic defect was ever discovered.  Neurological examination
showed as follows:  No tremors.  Tendon reflexes normal.  Conjunctival and palatal reflexes
absent.  The sense of pain to pin pricks was almost nil on the arms, and diminished on the
face.  Strength poor in the arms even when there was evidently great effort made.  (Several
of these functional findings, however, have varied from time to time in the ensuing years.)
Hearing normal.  Ocular examination showed hypermetropia 1.5 D. R. and L. with marked astigmatism.
Fields and color vision normal.  Left pupil about twice the size of the right.  (A competent
oculist could find no evidence of organic affection of the nervous system correlated with this.)
Shape of head normal.  Bowels regular.  Appetite capricious.  When first seen was anemic, but
later color was very good.  Temperature was taken regularly, but no significant observations
made.  Petite, pretty features, and unusually beautiful eyes.  Complaint of frontal dull headaches,
soreness of scalp, cold hands and pain ``about the heart.''  Menstruated at 15 years, then
much irregularity for two years.  Several badly carious teeth and great crowding in a narrow
upper dental arch.

This girl was several times observed during a period of about 5 years.  She developed into
an unusually attractive young woman, showing at times various mild nervous disturbances as
well as character difficulties.  Only occasionally has she worn the glasses which corrected
her errors of refraction.  During this time she has not been severely ill.  She has a palpable
thyroid which has hardly increased in size.  When last seen she was notable for a very clear
skin, good color, and bright eyes.  Conjunctival and corneal reflexes much diminished.  Palatopharyngeal
reflexes quite absent.  The headaches are said to have persisted during all the time we have
known her.

We have repeatedly attempted to summarize the mental status and functionings of this young
woman, but our findings on tests and otherwise have been irregular and diverse.  She reached
6th grade at 14 years, but had been absent much on account of sickness.  When first seen we
found that she was already fond of Lytton, Scott, and Dickens, and that she was a great reader
of the daily newspapers, dwelling much on accidents and tragedies.  What we say about her ability
must be based upon the best that she has demonstrated.  Often when seen she has been in some
mental state which has prevented her from doing, or being willing to do, the best that is in
her.  She writes a good hand, does long division promptly, and reads well.  Her association
and memory processes have been proved normal, but given a task to do she is prone to show inhibitory
pauses and other phenomena which interfere much with a satisfactory result.  She has some little
reputation of being able to give long, almost verbatim accounts of sermons which she has heard,
but the accuracy of her report we have not been able to verify.  She gave the antonyms of twenty
words in average time of 1.4'', which is a good record.  There was one failure, but that was
quite typical.  At the end of 20'', which is beyond the time of failure, she gave ``unhappy''
as the opposite of ``happy,'' adding that she had thought of that before, only she did not
speak it out.  Her tests for psychomotor control were miserably done.  She was rapid in movement,
but absolutely inaccurate and did not follow instructions.  However, we felt that even this
did not indicate her full ability, for she had capably held a position in a millinery establishment
where she was required to show manipulative dexterity.  Perhaps the best statement of her performances
is that she demonstrated great irregularities from time to time, and even at the same examination
in her work on different tests.

On account of her peculiar testimony against herself, her memory processes and especially her
performance on the ``Aussage'' test the case seemed of great interest.  We found, as we stated
above, in various ways that her abilities to remember, when at her best, were normal, but using
the ``Aussage'' picture we obtained only 6 details in free recital; she was sure that was all
she saw in the picture.  Then on cross-questioning she mentioned 9 more items correctly, and
gave 8 others much altered from the truth.  No other item was added, but her report on these
was almost illusional in its incorrectness.  Of 5 suggestions offered she accepted 2 of the
least important, refusing the others entirely.  This was a remarkably poor result for a girl
of her age, but may not be indicative of her best abilities even on this type of work.  Our
final opinion was that she was not clearly subnormal in native ability.

Annie has grown somewhat more stable as the years have gone on.  Following our first acquaintance
with her we have known this girl to make serious false accusations against others (vide infra)
and to again damage her own reputation by alleging herself to be pregnant when she was not.
Her word in other matters all along has been found somewhat unreliable, but there has been
no extensive weaving of romances such as those indulged in by typical pathological liars. 
Our original diagnosis of this as a case of pathological accusation upon the basis of mild
hysteria we have seen no reason to change.  Both Annie and other members of her family are
representatives of a most important type for court officials and all other social workers to
understand.  A great deal of trouble has been caused in several religious congregations by
the unusual character of the behavior of these people.  Also the number of times they have
been in courts for various reasons is astonishing.

The history of physical and mental development merges closely with the story of evolution in
the moral sphere, and all can be given together.  On account of the mother having long been
dead and the father being the peculiar man that he is there is some question about the truth
of some of the details which have been given us, but we have reason to believe that the main
facts are true because they have been held to be the truth in the family circle generally and
were not merely given to us.  Verification of details would be very difficult because the family
are distributed between Europe and America, and no relatives outside the immediate family are
at hand.  The mother was in excessively poor condition at the birth of Annie.  She had miscarriages
preceding and following.  It is stated that the diagnosis of malaria was made and that the
mother had convulsions both before and after confinement.  At the birth the prolonged labor
and instrumentation were not known to have done any damage.  As an infant Annie is said to
have been frail, but not to have had any definite sickness or any convulsions.

However, at about Annie's fifth year there began a long list of illnesses.  She had scarlet
fever severely and also a number of other children's diseases.  At 8 years she had an attack
of muscular jerking, and then had a number of successive attacks until she was 14 years.  At
one time she was in a public hospital for three weeks on account of this.  It was stated that
this was chorea, but of course we can not be sure on this point.  Annie was always regarded
as a very nervous child; she was frequently a somnambulist until she was about 12.  She is
very nervous before the onset of menstruation.  Of recent years she has been an excessive user
of tea-- at times before we first saw her she is said to have had 12 cups of tea in a day.
At times she was then suffering from sleeplessness, and was wont to feel tired in the morning.
As a young child she had severe night fears, seeing terrifying shadows upon the wall.

On account of her illnesses and her general nervous condition, Annie was very irregular in
her school attendance.  However, she reached 6th grade.  As to the family opinion of her mentality
we hear that they have regarded her as being an odd type, not lazy, but irritable, hateful,
and moody by spells.  Her memory is said to be most irregular, sometimes exceedingly good.
The other children find it difficult to get along with her because she slaps them so much.
At times she swears.  At the time of the revival meeting, shortly before we saw her, she is
said to have come home from church in an hysterical state.  When in custody she was in rather
a dazed condition.  Where she was detained they say she acted as if she were stunned.  Her
memory did not seem at all clear, nor has it ever seemed other than confused about the events
immediately surrounding the main episode of her career.  She maintained she could not remember
just exactly what she had said, and her account of it contradicted that of her father.

As we afterwards learned from the church people, it is undoubtedly a fact that her notions
of self-accusation came from a Sunday School session in which her teacher repeated what had
been talked about in the revival meeting concerning the scarlet woman.  A day or two afterward
the girl told that she herself was ``a scarlet woman.''  She told it first to the teacher,
was then taken to the pastor, when she reiterated the story, and the police authorities were
called in.  Of course her story implied lack of home guardianship and consequently the whole
affair was handled for some days by the police alone, after the girl had given a very detailed
description of her immoral life.  By the time we saw the father it had been ascertained that
this girl had never been away from home a single night in her life and probably had never been
in the least immoral sexually.

It is necessary to have knowledge of the heredity and environmental background to understand
this case.  Almost nothing is known of the maternal family.  After losing his first wife, the
father was twice remarried, and even the third wife has divorced him.  He had a brother who,
after going insane and killing two laborers, committed suicide.  His grandmother, and probably
also a cousin, were insane.  Two of his sisters were of a nervous and hysterical type and said
to have attacks of aphonia.  A child by his second wife is epileptic.  This man gives us a
long account of his own defective heredity and of his own physical ailments.  He does not recognize
the fact, however, that he also is mentally below par.  We have seen him on numerous occasions
and known of his great activity in the courts, and have attempted to size him up.  He is undoubtedly
a constitutional inferior, in poor general physical condition and subject to episodic mental
states.  One would be inclined to call him a semi-responsible individual with mild delusions,
defective reasoning ability, great energy in self-assertion, and of combative disposition.
This latter shows itself in his voluble emphasis on the alleged ill treatment of himself and
family, even by his wives.  He is never physically violent.  On account of false accusations,
whether delusional or not, he got at least one pastor into a peck of trouble, and, strangely
enough, his wives have been involved in some other church embroilments when his own character
was called severely into question.  On one occasion we were interested to enumerate an astonishing
list of people and organizations which, he stated, had treated him and his family unfairly.
It seemed to us that during the last two or three years he must largely have lived in the courts
to carry on his transactions there.  His concern for his daughter seemed genuine and her delinquency
led him to seek the law more than ever.  Some of the good people who have become interested
in his affairs tell us that his is the strangest story they have ever heard.  His veracity
is often in question.  On more than one occasion with us he has dwelled on his nervous states,
and on the fact that he is subject to times of mental confusion, but he defends his own judgment
and actions on all occasions with great vigor.

This most erratic father has nearly always sided with Annie and offered excuses for her under
all circumstances.  However, she has stated that he was most difficult to live with on account
of his quarreling at home and general bad management of the household.  We know that at times
he has been a seeker of newspaper notoriety.  From his conversations with us and with others
we know that his mind dwells much on sex affairs and these things are frequently discussed
in the home.  There has been much turmoil and quarreling in the family circle, at least with
the last two wives.  On several occasions the family have had to appeal for aid from the charities
because none of them succeeded in making a living.  Annie alleged she was taught shop-lifting
by the second wife--we regard this as being possibly true on account of the woman's general
reputation, the fact that they were desperately poor, and that she drank at times.

The father has the ability to make a very good presentation of himself, to use the best of
language and he has had musical training enough to be able to give lessons.  Annie herself
has taken many lessons in music.

The after-history of this case is instructive.  Almost none of our suggestions were taken when
our first diagnosis was made.  Two years after we first saw Annie she was placed in an institution
for delinquents, then having run away from home, ``picked up'' a man on the street and stayed
all night in a hotel with him.  At the institution the girl became very nervous and behaved
badly and the authorities decided it was a poor place for her.  The father, who at first wanted
her placed there, very soon decided that she should be removed.  It is very likely his attitude
had something to do with her behavior there.

About this time Annie worked in a millinery shop where she proved herself quick and skilful.
There she told stories again defaming herself.  She said she had had a baby and went into complete
details, such as giving the name of the nurse who had taken care of her, and so on.  On account
of this she was discharged.  Later she told us she related these stories to get even with her
father, for if there was ever a hell on earth it was living with him.

About three years after our first study of Annie, the father himself brought a complaint against
her of untruthfulness and general unreliability.  This was at one of the times when he was
complaining bitterly of other people.  It seems he had lately tried to restrain her from leaving
the house and she had cut his head open with an umbrella.  It was evident she had started downhill
again, and she was placed in a Rescue Home.  She now repeatedly told people she was pregnant
and made charges against some man, but these soon fell through because a little detective work
showed she was corresponding with a boy and had very likely been immoral with him and others.
She was then making an attempt to lead a dual life, maintaining she wanted to save some of
the unfortunates with whom she was placed, while at the same time entering into various escapades
with them and others.  At this period a suicidal attempt was reported, but we never had satisfactory
proof of the genuineness of this.  Annie was now regarded as being excessively delinquent.

A few months afterwards, when the young woman was in one of her better moods and wished to
do well, we made a few vocational tests on her.  We found her quite unfit for the position
of telephone operator which had been suggested for her.  Psychomotor control appeared then
decidedly defective.  However, there was great improvement on work done on intellectual tests
two or three years previously.  Although she had developed physically (she now was a particularly
good looking young woman) we felt she was quite unfit for work which demanded steady effort.
One trouble all along was the fact that she did not wear her glasses.  We advised then, as
we had advised at first, a quiet country life for Annie and the other members of the family.
The constant stimulus of city conditions was too much for them.

Again our advice was not taken and some months later the father came to us with the story of
extreme poverty, some recent attacks of unconsciousness on his part, separation from his third
wife, and the information that Annie was about to become a chorus girl.

Even a final consideration of the general diagnosis in this case which has been so long observed
by us does not seem to justify our including it among our border-line mental types.  Application
of the term constitutional inferiority seems a priori warranted by the family history and yet
we have no proof that her physical and mental conditions as enumerated above are not the result
of her many early illnesses and the excessively erratic environmental conditions, rather than
of causes which existed at birth.

On account of the peculiar inhibitory phases which arose nearly always during observation,
we never relied merely on the results of laboratory tests for our judgment, and her success
in some social situations has proved the wisdom of this.  Our earliest feeling that we had
to do with a temporary and mild psychosis was perhaps justified, but further observation of
her has led us to see clearly that she is not to be considered as a deeply aberrational type.
Could she ever have been free from the extraordinarily upsetting home conditions one could
have gauged much more accurately her mental capabilities.  As time went on, the moral difficulties,
which were largely induced by family conditions, led to mental as well as moral upsets which
could be considered as little else than normal reactions to the situation.  Her conduct lapses,
under the circumstances, are no indication of any mental breakdown.  On the contrary, it is
clear by our own examinations and the accounts of other observers that she gradually has showed
greater mental stability.

(Since writing the above, we have had, by chance, the opportunity of getting some important
information about this case from an entirely new source.  A person who knew the family many
years ago corroborates the father's remarkable story of antecedents.  The father himself remains
in about the same state of social incapacity.  Annie, now married to a young man with a long
criminal record, has a child.  Her word has recently been found absolutely unreliable, and
testimony lately given by her in court concerning her husband was grossly false when it would
seem that her interests and welfare demanded her testifying the truth concerning his non-support.)

---------------------------------------------------------------
Mentality:  Psychoneurotic.                    Case 20.           
  Heredity:  Extremely defective.           Girl, age 16.         
      Developmental conditions:  Defective antenatal              
      conditions. Difficult birth. Earlier neurosis.              

      Physical conditions:  Earlier dental defects.               
                  Defective vision, usually uncorrected.          
                    Stigmata of eyes.                          
            Stimulants:  Excessive use of tea.                    
               Home conditions:  Highly erratic and unstable.     
                                Many bad influences there.        
                      Excitement and suggestion from revival.     

Delinquencies:                     Mentality:      Self-accusations.                      
Abilities irregular,      Running away.                           and as above.       Sex affairs.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 21

Summary:  This case illustrates the fact that pathological lying and accusation may arise first
during a period of special stress.  A young woman of 19, after illegitimately becoming pregnant,
was found home after home by a charitable organization.  In each place she made false accusations
of immoral proposals against some one in the family or neighborhood.  This created much trouble
and lost her several good homes.  Her lies persisted after an abortion had been secretly produced,
but it is to be noted that she now, as a sequel to the operation, suffered from irritative
pelvic conditions.

A short statement of this case will suffice to bring out the point that during a period of
social and mental upset pathological lying and accusation may be first indulged in.  We studied
the case of a young woman of 19 who had been the source of much trouble in a certain locality
on account of her false accusations.  She was taken in hand by a charitable organization and
found a home, after she had become pregnant at a wedding feast where alcoholic stimulants flowed
freely.  There was then no one to look after her but an invalid father.  She was placed with
an estimable family.  In a short time she made the shocking announcement to the wife, and to
others, that the husband had made immoral advances to her.  He was a man of excellent character
and of course this could not be believed.  She was then placed on a farm, where she showed
erotic tendencies and insisted that one of the helpers about the place wanted to take liberties
with her.  She was observed flirting and making advances to thrashers and others.  She had
to be found a new home, and this time it was in a city, where new accusations were made against
a delivery boy.  After this the young woman made off and shifted for herself for a time, and
succeeded in getting some shady character to produce an abortion on her.  Later, she again
came to the official attention of the social agency by reason of making new accusations.  From
the date of her impregnation to the time we first studied her, a period of about 10 months,
she had made serious accusations against many.  When her lies were told in a new environment
they, of course, always made new trouble.  Each time, however, the girl herself was the loser.
Her real partner at the wedding feast had early deposited several hundred dollars for the expected
infant.

We found a strong, normally developed young woman of rather attractive appearance for the grade
in society from which she came.  No sensory defect.  Diseased tonsils.  Complained of constant
suffering from pelvic conditions, perhaps induced by the abortion.  However, being such a strong
type she has been able to get about well and do her daily work.  When we saw her she was employed
in a factory.

The question put to us was concerning her mentality.  She came of a Slavic peasant family,
had been in this country only 6 years, and her relatives spoke only Slavic.  She had been to
school but a very short time, either in the old country or here.  Because of the language difficulty,
the giving of many tests, such as those in the upper years of the Binet system, could be regarded
as most unfair.  However, the simpler language tests she did fairly well, especially those
where she could understand the commonsense questions.  In regard to her acquirement of English,
she has done better than her relatives, who continue to live in a neighborhood where their
own Slavic dialect is spoken.  When it came to dealing reasoningly with concrete situations,
such as those presented by our performance tests, this young woman did comparatively well--quite
above the grade of the feebleminded.  Our diagnosis, then, was that she could best be regarded
as poor in ability or possibly subnormal as compared with our general population, but as correlated
with her peasant type she was probably normal.

From the standpoint of aberration one could find no evidences of anything but eroticism and
a constant tendency to deviate from the truth.  About the affair of the abortion she showed
herself unexpectedly shrewd, maintaining that she had had to work very hard carrying stones
when a new silo was being built on the farm, and at her next menstrual period she had flowed
for a week or so, and that was all there was to it, except that she had been suffering from
pains continually since.  (The charitable organization knew she had visited the office of a
notorious abortionist.)  She smiled much in a silly way when in the company of men; she proved
herself easily led.  Taking it altogether, there was no reason for considering her insane,
or as being in any way a psychopathic personality.  She showed no stigmata of degeneracy.

There was no opportunity to get a satisfactory family history.  Many of the relatives were
still in the old country.  A sister and brothers have been known in the neighborhood where
this girl lived, and are said to appear quite normal in their simple ways of living.  They
are of the peasant type and good laborers, but given to occasional indulgence in feasting with
alcoholic embellishments.  From the sister we learned that this girl had passed through a sickly
childhood and had been most irregularly brought up on account of the illnesses of her mother.
She was not known as a liar when younger.  Her short school record showed nothing of value
for diagnosis.  What happened to this girl was no great exception; among these people, we know
from their own accounts, free and easy sex relationships are common.  We are advised that it
was long ago known that this girl was going with bad companions.

In this case we advised gynecological and other medical treatment and segregation in a reformatory
or industrial school.  The young woman could be regarded as nothing else than a dangerous person
in any community.  Even when being brought to us she had endeavored to flirt with a conductor
on the train.  A fair diagnosis could only be that she was, for the present at least, morally
irresponsible.

This case has been only recently studied and no further report can be given.  It is cited in
illustration of the fact that was not clearly brought out by our other cases, namely, that
a period of stress may be very definitely the exciting factor in developing pathological lying
and accusation.  This stands out particularly clearly in this case because the young woman
had, prior to the wedding feast, been a good worker and had given no trouble in the community.

CHAPTER V

CASES OF PATHOLOGICAL LYING IN BORDER-LINE MENTAL TYPES

We could load our pages with histories of cases where the statement of delusions, unrecognized
as such, has created much trouble in courts and out, but this type of case is too well known
to need any illustration.  Text books of psychiatry deal with the falsifications of paranoia
and other insanities.  That the really insane also sometimes lie pathologically, that is, tell
for no normal purpose what they adequately know to be untrue, is a fact not so well understood.
But even that we need not be especially concerned with in our case histories.  It has been
well brought out in the previous literature on pathological lying, as witness in our Chapter
II.  In the present chapter we do not include the out-and-out insane, nor the definitively
feeble-minded, nor the recognizably epileptic.

Much more difficult of understanding and much less easily recognized because of the mildness
of many of the symptoms, or their variations from time to time, are the types which we enumerate.
Several of these offer no complete picture of insanity--even Case 25, although clearly aberrational,
extremely defective in self-control, and markedly criminalistic, did not show to some psychiatrists
who observed him a sufficiently clear correspondence to any form of insanity as laid down in
the old-school text-books to be practically regarded as insane and in need of long segregation.
In considering this whole matter we must never forget that there is no wall of demarcation
between those whose conduct clearly betokens insanity and those who are not insane.  There
are plenty of instances where the easily passable border between the two is permanently occupied
or is at times approached.

We keep our border-line cases separate in order to emphasize that pathological lying by an
insane person does not make a pathological liar in the true sense.  We should hesitate, however,
to give in legal form a verdict of insanity in several of these border-line cases we cite--they
are very difficult to classify, and the question of responsibility called for sometimes in
court work is unanswerable.  Keeping even these mild cases away from our others serves, however,
to lessen confusion; we need in this subject to conserve all the clearness possible by holding
to fundamental classifications and showing up vagueness of definition where it does exist.

Perhaps we are over-particular in keeping such a case as No. 22 in this chapter.  The commonsense
observer would hardly regard this girl as at all lacking, even in self-control.  On the other
hand, for the purpose of illustrating the subject of pathological accusation we have kept Case
17 in the previous chapter when it clearly shows great resemblance to Case 26 and is in reality
a border-line type.  Then, too, the swindler, Case 12, in some respects belongs in this chapter.

We are hardly called on in this work to discuss the lying of drug habitues, although they so
frequently in their mental conditions represent border-line types.  They are often on the verge
of a psychosis as the result of their intoxications.  Their lying is mostly done for a purpose,
to be sure, and hence much would not come under the head of pathological lying, but occasionally
veracity is so much interfered with that there seems to be a tendency to aimless lying.  This
class of cases, however, is sufficiently discussed in special literature pertaining to the
subject.[24]

[24] Vide, ``Morphinism and Narcomanias From Other Drugs,'' by T. D. Crothers.  Philadelphia,
Saunders and Co., 1902.  Also Chapter V, Stimulants and Narcotics, in ``The Individual Delinquent,''
by William Healy Boston, Little, Brown, and Co., 1915.

CASE 22

Summary:  A girl of 14, a most vigorous and vivacious personality, had for a couple of years
pursued a curiously active career of misrepresentation, of obtaining goods under false pretenses
and running away from home even to distant places.  Her conversational ability was above normal;
her lies were evolved for the purpose of adapting herself to the peculiar circumstances in
which she frequently found herself.  Her general conduct combined with her abnormal psychomotor
activity gave ground for the diagnosis of constitutional excitement--hypomania.

Birdie M., 14 years old, we saw after some clever detective work had proved her to be the girl
who in another town had repeatedly swindled shop-keepers.  It seems she had been accustomed
to take the train for localities where she had no connections whatever, and there enter shops
and make away with whatever she could.  An astounding incident was when she returned some goods
she had stolen and persuaded the manager to ``refund'' her the money on the same.  This was
regarded by the authorities as extremely clever. 

We found Birdie very small for her age.  Weight 76 lbs.; height 4 ft. 8 in.  Tonsils very large.
Teeth excessively crowded.  No sensory defect.  Not yet menstruated.  A very nervous type;
quick physical and mental reactions; exceedingly active, restless manner.

Our psychological impressions state that Birdie did all her tests brilliantly and quickly,
but very often with less accuracy than would have been the case had she taken the time to think
quietly rather than work rapidly.  She was very keen to make the best possible record.  ``I
am proud of being quick; nothing is hard for me; it was not hard at school.''  It was found
by steadying her that she gave a more accurate performance.  We diagnosed her ability as good,
but her school advantages had been poor.  Otherwise we noted she was a pert, talkative, responsive
child, of a distinctly nervous and somewhat unreliable type.  Her ideas came tumbling, one
on top of another.  Under close supervision she was able to control her mental processes fairly
well.  For instance, on the antonym test, where opposites to twenty stimulus words are called
for, Birdie gave them in the remarkably rapid average time of .8 of a second, with only one
failure and one error.  This is an exceptional record.  From this and her unexpected powers
of self-control exhibited on some other tests we were obliged to conclude that her aberrational
tendencies were not very deep-set.  Her mental traits seemed to conform most nearly to the
type designated as constitutional excitement, or hypomania.  Further observation of the case
confirmed us in this first view of it.

On the ``Aussage'' or Testimony Test she gave 13 items, all correct, upon free recital.  On
questioning, 14 more details were added, but 6 of these were incorrect.  Of the 6 suggestions
offered she accepted none.

Birdie immigrated from Austria with her family when she was 10 years of age.  She came of a
healthy family; all of her grandparents and many of her uncles and aunts are living.  We get
no history of any insanity, epilepsy, or feeblemindedness on either side.  She is one of 7
children, several of whom have had nervous troubles.  Two of the children had convulsions in
infancy, but then only.  One brother at 10 years old is an excessive stammerer and extremely
nervous.

Birdie was born after a pregnancy during which the mother was much worried and in poor health.
The father, too, was sickly at that time.  The family conditions were defective on account
of poverty and illness during a large share of the period when the children were born.  Birdie
at birth was very small and there was difficulty in resuscitation.  She, however, was never
seriously ill until she was 7 years of age, when she had something like peritonitis.  No spasms
or convulsions at any time.  She was a very small child during her infancy, but walked at 8
months and talked very well indeed when she was only one year old.  Developmental history otherwise
negative, but all along there has been poor family control on account of ill health and the
slight earning capacity of the father.

During the several months we knew Birdie she was always a most unreliable person.  She repeatedly
ran away from home and was lost track of.  On one occasion she got as far as Omaha.  By the
use of elaborate, but plausible stories she always succeeded in winning the friendship of reputable
people.  Once she was found, after she had been away several weeks, residing in a good home
in another State where the people thought of adopting her on account of her brightness.  Many
times she wandered about her home city and in the most active and sly fashion purloined anything
she cared for.  Several times when she was taken by the police she invented clever stories,
without the least faltering, that seemed entirely fitted to the occasion.  As the investigator
said, she talked incessantly with not the slightest hesitation and was always airy and sure.
No one to whom she had gone with her misrepresentations questioned her veracity-- she always
came out with a clearly connected and plausible story.  We noted that her parents in comparison
seemed quite stupid.

Of course Birdie passed under various names.  Once we recognized her picture in the newspaper
representing a weary, disheartened girl who was tired walking all day long from one employment
bureau to another.  She stated to the reporter it was her ambition to become a model servant.
When in Omaha her mental peculiarities were recognized and she was studied by a competent alienist
who, however, was not willing to render a verdict of non compos mentis to the police.  This
was when she had run away from Chicago and had told a lot of stories all of which had turned
out to be untrue.  The trouble which she created in various communities by reason of her hyperactive
delinquencies has not been small.

With much merriment and an excessive amount of facial expression this little girl held forth
to us.  It is hardly necessary to say that the account varied somewhat from day to day.  She
did not like it at home and did not propose to go back there.  There were too many in the family.
As soon as the floor was scrubbed one of the children would get it all dirty again.  She had
started for New York, but the old gatekeeper at the station was mean and she could not slip
by him.  She got along all right in Omaha, but finally she gave herself up to the police there.
She thinks perhaps she might go up to the people in Wisconsin who wanted to adopt her.  In
any case, she can do a great deal better than Viola B. who ran away from New York and got caught,
and was so much talked about in the newspapers.

Thus her story would run along at great length, Birdie in the meanwhile chuckling with the
thought of her own escapades.

We never recommended institution life because it seemed as if better things might be done for
this girl.  We felt that if she were built up from a physical standpoint her tendency towards
nervous excitement might grow less.  Her tonsils were removed.  Every one felt that the girl's
good mental abilities should be conserved to the utmost.  Attempts at management in a different
environment gave some hope of success, and after a time her parents moved to a smaller town,
when we lost oversight of the girl.  Following our acquaintance with the case it had been managed
in the light of her characteristics, and her falsifying tendencies were constantly discounted
by those in charge.  We felt that her tendency was to grow more stable.

Three years later:  We have just gained further information concerning Birdie.  The family
is still in straitened circumstances, the father having proved too weak a character to support
them.  He posed as somewhat of a gentleman and made off to another country.  Birdie is said
to have worked steadily for months at a time, but over a year ago suddenly left home once more,
this time going with a stage company.  Although the police in several cities have been appealed
to, no trace has been obtained as yet of our young friend.  Whether her lying was continued
at home we cannot satisfactorily learn, nor do we know accurately about any continuance of
her state of excitement, but without doubt Birdie in her present wandering is fabricating anew,
and is what she was before, namely, a young adventuress.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Mental conditions:  Constitutional excitement.    Case 22.        
                                        Girl, age 14 years.       
   Developmental conditions:  Defective pregnancy.                
                             Early impaction of teeth.            
                             Poor general physical conditions.    
           Home conditions:  Poverty. Irritability of father and  
                           mother.      
Delinquencies:                     Mentality:      
Running away.                           Ability good;     
Stealing.                               Constitutional     
Lying.                                  excitement.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 23

Summary:  A girl of 16 having been out all of one night, related a story to the police of having
been led off, and incidentally made the statement that she had been repeatedly immoral, once
with a relative.  She dictated and signed a detailed account of the affairs, giving times and
places.  This was used in investigating and led to much fruitless effort even on the part of
experienced people--her story was quite untrue.  When studied she proved to be a mild case
of chorea, exhibiting the typical psychotic tendencies of that disease, such as we have observed
in court work a number of times.

Nellie M., when brought to us by her grandmother, following the girl's experience with the
police who had been told by her of immoralities practiced, was found to be rather a nice looking
and gentle girl, pleasant and responsive with us.

On the physical side we found her to be poorly developed and nourished.  Weight 93 lbs.; height
4 ft. 9 in.  Vision about 20/40 in each eye, but wears glasses which correct this.  Rather
poor color.  Complains somewhat of headaches.  Marked tremor of outstretched hands.  Moderate
amount of choreic movements in arms and legs, exaggerated when attention distracted.  Knee
jerks exaggerated.  Conjunctival and palatal reflexes almost absent.  Small regular features.
Well shaped head.  Said to drink at least 4 cups of tea a day.  Heart sounds negative.

Mentally, she seemed to be fairly normal in ability, but was undoubtedly in a peculiar psychical
condition.  She had reached 7th grade in spite of much moving about, even to different cities.
We found evidence of lack of good apperceptive powers and the history of the case led us to
see clearly that she had been just recently in a very unstable, if not quite confusional mental
condition.

The ``Aussage'' or Testimony Test was not given in this case.

The history of heredity and development shows many points of importance.  The mother died when
Nellie was a very little girl.  She was terribly abused by a husband who was excessively alcoholic
and in general a tremendous brute.  They lived in a roadhouse where drunken fights were not
uncommon.  Nellie has been brought up since her mother's death by other relatives.  Outside
of alcoholism on the father's side there is said to be no family peculiarities.  The mother
came from a very reputable family.  Nellie suffered early from several severe illnesses.  When
only six weeks old she is said to have been in a comatose condition with scarlet fever and
diphtheria.  Later she had measles, whooping cough and other mild ailments, and at one time
suffered extremely from constipation.  Walked and talked early.  No convulsions.  Menstruated
first several months ago.  Sometimes complains of severe headaches.  One observer reported
that the girl had been subject to slight melancholia within the last year.  Choreic movements
have been present off and on for about a year, but have not been marked until a little while
previous to the incident which brought her to us.  The diagnosis had been made that it was
a case of mild St. Vitus dance.  During all the year Nellie had been regarded as in general
unreliable, but nothing of importance had happened prior to the above episode.

Nellie's story as told to us seemed coherent enough.  Apparently she had entire memory of her
past actions and, in general, of what she had said.  Her own statements convinced us as much
as anything else of her unreliability at times.  It seems she had run away and gone to a picture
show and had fallen asleep there.  When she got out it was very late, but it was election night
and people were about on the street.  She finally was accosted by a woman who took her home.
After her story of being led off by a man the police were called into the case and she gave
them her remarkable statement.  Nellie told us of picking up with a man, too, who lured her
to a theatre, but who left her there.  There was no way of corroborating this.  She fully acknowledged
to us the lies which had created so much trouble.  ``Well, I was telling the first lies and
then when I was going to tell him that I knew that I was telling wrong he acted so cranky and
said such things to me.  He said he knew somebody had done bad things to me and so I thought
I had to give the name of somebody and so I gave those names.

``The girls around in the schools I used to go to talked about these things.  I never went
with them.  I was always by myself.  None of the boys said bad things.  The police were so
cranky I did not know what else to say.  They said someone must have done it to me when I was
younger and I said it was my cousin because he always used to want to.  He said he would give
me a pair of skates if I would.  He was 13.  I never asked my grandmother or anyone about these
things.  No one ever explained it to me.  Just the girls are the ones who told me about these
things.  They told me themselves how they had been out at night with the boys.  I never did
do it with anybody.''

Examination by a gynecologist about this time showed positively that there had been no immoral
relations, and after our findings the case became a closed incident so far as prosecuting anybody
was concerned.  Nellie was taken in hand by the family physician and no further delinquencies
or false accusations have been complained of during the succeeding two years.

Outside of the girl's general frank bearing, undoubtedly a point rather indicating to the police
possible truth in her statements, was the detail in which the alleged events were given.  The
signed statement coming from an apparently naive girl of 15 would seem in its clearness and
coherency to bear the earmarks of truth.  We always regarded this case as one of our interesting
examples showing the unreliability of girl witnesses, especially those who have had unfortunate
experiences, even though merely mental, with sex affairs.

---------------------------------------------------------------
 Mentality:  Mild choreic psychosis.               Case 23.       
                                           Girl, age 15 years.    
      Early clandestine sex teachings.      
Delinquencies:                     Mentality:           
Running away.                      Normal ability,          
False accusations.                 temporary aberration.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 24

Summary:  A girl of 16 whose general conditions won ready sympathy created much trouble.  She
repeatedly made serious accusations against a man and her attempt at suicide made her statement
seem convincing.  Further study showed the absolute falsity of her charges.  It was a case
of hysteria which had developed largely upon a basis of injury--there was a traumatic psychoneurosis.
Under good treatment she made a fine recovery; there being no more indulgence in pathological
accusations, although her nervous symptoms recurred for a short time after a couple of years.

At the time when we first saw Georgia B. she was somewhat over 16 years old and had been only
5 years in this country.  We saw her because she had run away from home and attempted suicide.
From the latter she had been rescued, and then had accused a neighbor of raping her.  The case
proved to be very troublesome until the nature of the whole affair was understood.

We found a thin and anemic girl, not at all prepossessing in appearance, dull in expression,
suffering from a chronic suppurating otitis media.

On the mental side we had much trouble in conducting an examination because she was greatly
given to tears.  She did work for us on a few tests and her efforts would have been graded
as those of a feebleminded person if her emotional state had been left out of account.  Even
our physical examination was largely hindered through her crying.  However, her story was told
in a straightforward way and with that show of emotion which had previously convinced others
that grave injustice had been done her.  Distinct proof of hysteria was present; for instance,
on one occasion in the middle of a test Georgia apparently became unconscious.  Her head dropped
to the table, but her lips were red, her face did not change color, she resisted having her
head moved, and in a moment or two lifted it herself to a more comfortable position.  The diagnosis
from such symptoms as these and from her history was not difficult to make.

The ``Aussage'' test, for obvious reasons, was not given.

Georgia told her story with surprising coherency; in outline, it was as follows:  She ran away
from home, and then was put under protection of the police authorities by a man who caught
her.  She said she was caught when standing by a drug store where she had been to get medicine,
just ten cents worth of peroxide.  When asked by us if it were not really carbolic acid she
called for, she said yes, it was and that she intended to take it.  She wanted to get rid of
her life.  What could she do in the way of living?  Her father and mother were both sick and
they could not live long and then how could she get along taking care of three little children?
When asked if her parents would not be terribly affected by her suicide she said that it would
not be the first time they had buried a child.  At this time she would go no further into her
history.

On the next day she talked straight to the point, but with a remarkably dull expression on
her face.  She said that about five weeks ago, she cannot tell the exact date, she went to
a neighbor's house.  A man there wanted her to come and look at some pictures.  He finally
got her to go to a bedroom and then held her so she could not scream, and raped her.  She is
sure of it.  He later choked and beat her and kicked her out of the house.  At first she was
afraid to tell her people.  A couple of weeks afterward she went back and asked why he did
that, and he swore at her and accused her of being bad, and she and he talked back and forth
for some time.  ``He says, `I'll kill you.  I did not touch you at all.'  I says, `You did.
You're a liar and you can kill me now if you want to.  You have already killed me.  See, I
grow large like this.' ''  He then set upon her and beat her again.  She has not seen him since.
After telling this Georgia began to cry very hard and said that she really is killed now and
is done for.  The whole story was told in a straightforward way with a full show of emotion.

A complicating feature of this case, resultant upon lack of understanding of the characteristic
vagaries of this type, was the action of a vigorous knight errant.  He was the one who rescued
her.  Hearing her ask in the drug store for the carbolic acid, which she did not get, he thought
she was desperate and questioned her, but she tearfully refused to answer.  He quietly followed
her until she got to the river, and then, when she had her foot on the rail of the bridge and
was about to jump off, he seized her.  She fought and kicked him so that she badly hurt one
of his legs.  She told him she had reason to commit suicide.  He got her to some house and
there she fainted.  When she came to she described her situation to him, naming a man who boarded
with a neighbor as having raped her.  She told him this was the reason she had tried to commit
suicide.

This young man visited Georgia's family, found them strangely indifferent and not inclined
to believe the girl, so he set out to see that justice was done.  With his well-intended efforts
he succeeded in getting several agencies to work on the case, the parents meanwhile partly
resenting his interference.  They said they knew what kind of a girl she was.

We never felt thoroughly satisfied with the family history on account of the comparative ignorance
of the parents, our only source of information, although they were honest enough people.  All
points in heredity seemed negative, nor could we learn that there had been anything significant
in developmental conditions.  The girl had only recently menstruated.  Her people felt that
of late her word was quite unreliable.  She went as far as the 4th grade.  On account of the
short time in school in this country this was considered doing fairly well.

Ten months prior she had fallen off a street car; it was not known she was damaged seriously.
A jury had given a verdict of several hundred dollars against the company, but on account of
an appeal having been taken the case was still unsettled.  Since the accident a number of fainting
attacks had occurred and Georgia had lost one position on account of them, a place where she
had worked for 2 years.  She was said to have been quite healthy before the accident.  Some
5 weeks before we saw her, the girl had become hysterical and announced that she had not menstruated
the week before and the cause was that she had been raped.  Her behavior was so peculiar in
regard to this that her parents did not believe her statements and did nothing about it.  The
girl evidently was accustomed to telling falsehoods, although we could get no specific account
of them.  The parents were very anxious to avoid a scandal, for though they were poor they
made much of their respectability .

Georgia was examined after a later reiteration of her charges; the physician said that she
had not been raped.  After we saw her the parents thought it was best to go to another physician
with the young man who had become so interested.  Once more the report was that there had been
no rape, but it now appeared that there had been some manipulation of the parts.  After this
the case quieted down, but Georgia had run away again just before this second examination.
When by our recommendation she was now placed in a convalescent home she repeated the same
stories and announced that she was pregnant.  Of course more trouble was created by this and
a third examination had to be made to convince these good people who had been recently asked
to interest themselves in her.

After her stay in the convalescent home Georgia returned to her parents, and, appearing to
be recovered, went to work again.  Her record for two years was unexpectedly satisfactory.
When the above episode had blown over she regained control of herself, adapted herself to family
conditions, and worked steadily.  On one occasion her nervous symptoms have returned with much
depression and again an attempt at suicide.  She was now carefully studied in a hospital for
signs of insanity, but again it was determined that she was not of unsound mind.  She made
a speedy recovery, adjusted herself once more to her surroundings, and after a few months became
married.  During the last year or so there has been no further trouble.  A settlement of the
law suit for injuries was made before her more recent period of depression.  At the time of
even her last attack we can learn of no more false accusations having been made.  The family
attitude about her has, all along, not been what it should have been to have gained the proper
results, but the problem of poverty was always with them.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Mentality:  Traumatic psychoneurosis.      Case 24.               
                                     Girl, age 16 years.          
       Accident, with law suit following.                
          General physical conditions:  Anemia, poor              
                          nutrition, otitis media.      
Delinquencies:                   Mentality:
Running away.                      Poor ability; 
Attempted suicide.                 temporary
False accusations.                 aberration.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 25

Summary:  Case of a young man of 19, with already a long record of criminalism, who created
much trouble for a court where a judge was keenly anxious to do justice.  The fellow implicated
himself in a sensational murder, but investigation proved this to be untrue.  In other ways
his word was found most unreliable.  The question concerning his sanity could only be answered
by stating that he was an aberrational type peculiarly inclined to criminalism, and therefore
needed segregation, and that he was also given to pathological lying and self- accusation.
From the legal and social standpoints it is important to note that the case represents a type,
unquestionably abnormal, although the mental pathology could not be subsumed under the head
of any one of the designated mental diseases.

The case of John B. was studied at the request of a judge who had continued the trial because
of the manifest mental peculiarities of the defendant.  We were told that his behavior varied
much, that one day he would cry and apologize, and on another would show stupid bravado.  As
the judge stated, John had long been in disciplinary institutions and this had failed to do
any good.  The immediately peculiar features of the case were that while he was being held
for vagrancy and robbery, John made a strong attempt to implicate himself in a murder case.
In other words he was a self-accuser.

We found a strong young man of 19 years; weight 157 lbs., height 5 ft. 5 in.  Very broad shouldered
and deep chested, but slouchy attitude.  Good color.  Eyes bright.  Varicocele.  Somewhat defective
vision in one eye.  Well-shaped head--circumference 56.5, length 18.5 and breadth 16 cm.  Thick,
heavy voice.  Appears dull and depressed, but energizes under encouragement.  Other physical
examination negative.  Complains merely of headaches in left frontal region, but says he has
had these only since last year when he was struck there by a beer bottle.  Recently an excessive
user of tobacco.

In the mental examination we found much of interest.  When first seen he gave every appearance
of being a mental defective, but by judicious stimulation he could be waked up to do comparatively
good work in several directions.  On the Binet tests, 1911 series, he passed all but one of
the 12 year set; in that he followed the suggestion offered.  On the 15 year old tests he did
three out of five.  The failures were on the memory span of figures and in the repetition of
a sentence of 26 syllables.

By our other tests we also found him defective in verbal memory processes, even when he read
the passage to be remembered.  In working with our so-called construction tests, where his
success depended not only upon planning with concrete material, but even more on the ability
to profit by his failures, he did decidedly poorly.  In handling the puzzle box, where above
everything is required perception of the relationship of one step to another, he succeeded
very rapidly.  With the cross-line tests, which require mental representation of an easily
remembered figure and analysis of its parts, he did very poorly, succeeding only after the
third attempt in each of the two simple tests.  This is a type of work that is especially easy
for the normal person.

In our ``Aussage'' or Testimony Test we got a decidedly poor result.  At first enumeration
he gave only 8 items, and on cross questioning gave only 6 more.  He denied seeing other objects
plain in the picture, but contradicted himself somewhat on this.  It is interesting that he
took only one out of four suggestions, notwithstanding his suggestibility on the Binet test.

On school work he does altogether much better.  He writes a good hand, reads fairly well, and
promptly does a sum in long division.  He claims to have reached the 6th grade.  One difficulty
in testing him was his prevailing lethargy.  We constantly had to fight this by encouragement.
Once he insisted he must give up the work because he had not had a smoke for an hour or so.
Altogether, including his irregularities, we could not call him lower than poor in ability,
possibly subnormal.  He did not come within the limits of the feebleminded group.  Just where
to place him would depend upon what he perhaps could do under other more favorable conditions.
So much for the tests of ability.

In studying him for aberrational tendencies there were positive indications.  Most significant
it was when, in the Binet tests, he came to the word ``justice'' and turned to the examiner,
saying feelingly, ``I don't know what that is,'' and then burst into tears.  Yet this was from
a fellow who had offered to get himself into even worse trouble with the courts.  He made much
of his worrying about not having any home and not being the child of his so-called parents.
His attitude was of sorrow and hopelessness about his whole situation in life.  As seen again
about two weeks later, still more evidences of aberration were found.  He contradicted himself
then in regard to his previous stories, in regard to his home life, denied he had made self-accusations,
and very clearly did not remember at all accurately what he had previously told me.  In fact,
he evidently was not quite clear just who I was, although he had before been brought across
town under the charge of a couple of officers to see me--an important break in his incarceration.
He also told a different story from one he had told before to a certain official who now was
present.  He seemed rather mixed on a number of points, and this is all the more significant
because he had been heartily afraid of being adjudged insane.  Our diagnosis at this time was
purely tentative as far as exact diagnosis was concerned.  We stated that in our opinion he
was an aberrational type and the practical point was that he should neither be allowed to go
out in the community, nor be sent to a penitentiary, but rather to an institution for observation
and perhaps for long detention.  The jury found it necessary, as usual in such cases, to declare
him insane.

The history of John runs as follows:  From an evidently conscientious parent we learn of nothing
significant in the family history.  At birth he was said to be bright and healthy.  He had
diphtheria severely at 4 years.  At 6 he started to school.  He always got along well in his
classes, but was very troublesome.  At 11 years he began to run away from home.  His father
spent much time and money in going to various parts of the country for him, and at 13 years
of age he was placed in an industrial school.  He is the only child.  He came home after 2
years, remained there for 3 or 4 months and then ran away once more to California.  (His home
was in the middle West.)  He was returned by the police, sent to the industrial school for
another year, and then again returned home.  He stayed only 2 weeks before running away to
New York.  Coming back he got into some trouble and was sent for the third time to the industrial
school.  There he stayed until 6 months before we saw him.  He was released once more on parole,
stayed at home a week, and again ran away.  It is reported that during his early time at the
industrial school he was rather melancholy by spells, and at one time tried to poison himself.
His relatives say he has a bad temper.  He had typhoid fever at 14, but made a good recovery.

John has been known for years as a great liar, having told miserable stories about his parents,
all of which were quite untrue.  He has frequently mortified his father and mother by denying
his parentage.  The last time John was on parole he wrote more than one letter to police authorities
in his home State, informing them he had been implicated in a serious crime.  An officer at
the reformatory institution had a letter from him purporting to be written from a penitentiary,
stating he was sentenced there on a charge of robbery.  When he was held in our city on a minor
charge, he informed the police officials that he was connected with a certain notorious murder
of which the papers had been full just previously.  He was sent out with a couple of detectives
who soon found he knew nothing about the actual facts, and that his alleged accomplices were
innocent men.

In jail it is reported that he seems childish.  He has to be locked up alone at times and then
begs and teases to get out, but in ten minutes or so will repeat the bad behavior.  He has
stolen little things from others in custody and has attempted to dispose of his own clothes
for a few cents.  It is definitely reported that he has shown evidences of poor memory.  From
the institution where he previously had been so long, word comes that he was regarded there
as not quite normal.  John had been held in another city on a charge of rape, but without much
evidence, for he was allowed to go.  We could not find out whether he made self-accusations
in that case.

In his story to us he complains bitterly about his treatment at the old institution, maintains
he was head laundry man there, tells about his excessive smoking of late, denies his parentage,
says the only friend he has is a certain church worker, maintains he did not have any home
to go to from the industrial school, intimates he will commit suicide if there is any question
of his being declared insane, says that he had earlier stolen things from home, tells of having
spells when things get black in front of his eyes and can't see for a little while, says he
wants to be sent to the penitentiary and wants to start right now serving his term.

All told, there was nothing so striking about this whole case as the extravagant tendencies
towards prevarication.  For years he has been lying to no purpose, although he has never been
previously regarded as insane.  Now he appears as an extreme self-accuser and as a fellow whose
word can't be trusted from hour to hour.  The lying, regarded as an aberrational tendency,
is out of proportion to our findings of abnormality in any other sphere of mental activity,
except perhaps the evidences of defective memory processes.  One trouble in gauging his memory
is, of course, the boy's prevarications, but one might argue that if his memory processes were
as good as his other abilities he would make equal use of them.

Following our study and recommendation in the case John was found not guilty, but insane. 
Then being resident of another State, and, indeed, being on parole from a reformatory institution
there, he was held over to the jurisdiction of that State, and placed in a hospital for the
criminal insane.  We have a full report from the latter place which is exceedingly illuminating.
It appears that despite his first terror of being sent to an asylum he adapted himself to his
new surroundings very readily.  It is stated that he assisted with the ward work and spent
his leisure time in reading and playing cards.  He asked for work outside on the grounds and
was regarded as a very courteous and genial patient.  No evidence of delusional or hallucinatory
trends could be obtained.  He always seemed to be well oriented and conscious of everything
going on about him.  Emotionally he appeared somewhat subnormal inasmuch as he did not worry
about his own condition, but said he was perfectly contented.  (The latter, of course, to a
psychiatrist would be significant.)  He was a great talker and his stories were well listened
to.  John said that when he was indicted for robbery his lawyer advised him to feign insanity
and as a result he had been sent to that hospital.  (It is to be remembered that with us he
made great effort to show off his mental powers at their best and evidently did somewhat better
work than when later in the hospital.)  He gave them a history of being somewhat of a cocainist
and morphinist, of being a slick ``pickpocket,'' and of associating with prominent criminals,
particularly ``auto'' bandits.  He was boastful of his experiences, but sometimes admitted
that he prevaricated.  It is most interesting to note that he told a story of having concealed
in Chicago some plunder--jewels, money, and so on--and was really taken to Chicago by one of
theBoard of Visitors of the hospital to find the booty.  It is hardly necessary to say it was
not located.  The last of the hospital report states, ``Inasmuch as we were unable to prove
that he had any form of insanity he was discharged.''

It is of no small importance for discussion of the relation between insanity and criminalism
to know that there are such cases as this where the individual is unquestionably aberrational
and yet does not conform in mental symptoms to any one of the definitive ``forms of insanity.''
They may be lacking in normal social control and in ability to reason, impulsively inclined
to anti-social deeds and therefore social menaces, but, notwithstanding this, may not be classified
under the head of any of the ordinary text-book types of mental diseases.

It is clear that for the protection of society a different notion of what constitutes mental
aberration or insanity should prevail, so that these unusually dangerous types might be permanently
segregated.  It would really seem that just the findings which the hospital statement enumerates
would convince one of this individual's marked abnormality from a social point of view and
that his being at large was a grave undesirability.

The latest information concerning this young man is that he was being held in a Western city
for burglary.

We should hesitate to make out a card of causative factors in this case.  It is clear that
the major cause in his delinquency was his aberrational mentality.  What there was by way of
causation back of this, our history, although obtained from an apparently conscientious parent,
is too meagre for explanation.

CASE 26

Summary:  Boy of 16 had for 6 years caused a great amount of trouble by his general unreliability
and excessive lying.  He had been tried away from his own people in private homes and in institutions
without success.  His lying was excessive and often showed no purpose and no foresight.  His
peculiar delinquencies demonstrated weakness of will.  Although in good general physical condition
he simulated illnesses.  Mental and physical characteristics rendered certain the diagnosis
of constitutional inferiority.

We saw William S. first when he was over 16 years of age, after he had been arrested for stealing.
He had already been in three institutions for delinquents.  From his father and others we gained
a long story of the case.

William was in fairly good physical condition.  No sensory defect.  Weight 125 lbs.; height
5 ft. 3 in.  Although well enough developed in other ways he was a marked case of delayed puberty;
as yet no pubescence.  Strength only fair; for his age, muscles decidedly flabby.  A high,
broad forehead.  Large nose.  Peculiar curl of the upper lip.  Small, weak chin.  These features
give him a peculiar appearance--readily interpretable as showing weakness of character.  Cranium
notably large.  With small amount of hair measurements were: circumference 57.8; length 19.6;
breadth 15.5 cm.  (Head same size as father's.)  Expression downcast.  Voice high pitched.
``Under dog'' attitude.  Slouchy.  No analgesia or other signs of hysteria.

The performance on tests was peculiarly irregular.  In this monograph we have omitted discussion
of the results of separate tests, but the citation of the summary as dictated when the case
was first studied will prove instructive:  The work done on our tests was very irregular, peculiarly
so.  Perceptions good and most phases of the memory processes fair, but in reasoning ability
and especially in tests which require the application of some foresight the results are poor
indeed.  The failure is remarkable in proportion to what he could do in school work and to
his abilities in some other ways.  He reads fluently, writes a very good hand, and in arithmetic
is able to do long division, but showed no grasp of good method.  When at his best he sticks
at a job well enough, but does it with no intelligence and does not save himself in the least
by thoughtful procedures.  We were interested to note that in a game which he said he had played
a great deal, namely checkers, he made the most foolish and shortsighted moves.  It is only
fair to say that this boy varied in his performance from time to time; his emotional condition
largely controlled his performance.

On the ``Aussage'' or Testimony Test he gave a functional account upon free recital, with 15
details.  On questioning he gave 13 more items.  Out of the entire number only 3 minor errors.
Of 5 suggestions proffered none was accepted.

There was a great deal more to be said about this boy's mental peculiarities than what was
evidenced by the giving of tests.  Our observations of him made at intervals over a period
of several months corroborated entirely the statements of several others, including members
of his own family.  The boy was remarkably unstable in his ideas and purposes.  What he apparently
sincerely wanted to do and be at one time was entirely different at another.  His changeableness
was shown in many ways.  When he had been found apparently suitable employment or a new home
he often would stay only a few days.  The father's first statement that the boy was a craven
was borne out by all that we saw.  He was too cowardly to be ``tough,'' but he was a persistent
runaway and vagrant.  He sometimes used an assumed name.  In general demeanor he was good natured,
but always restless.  Not the least of his peculiarities was his ready weeping.  It was amazing
to see so large a fellow draw down his chin and sob like a young child.  He was easily frightened
at night.  Under observation he had peculiar episodes of behavior.  Once in a school-room,
without any known provocation, he suddenly began to cry and scream, picked up a chair and soon
had the entire room cleared out.  A moment afterwards he was found sobbing and bewailing his
lot because he ``never had a fair chance.''  On another occasion his legs strangely gave out
and he had to be carried to bed by his fellows.  The next morning a physician found him with
his legs drawn up and apparently very sensitive over his back and other parts of his body,
but with a little encouragement all his symptoms soon disappeared.  He gave a history of having
had convulsions, but this was found to be untrue.  He was a ``bluffer'' among boys; when met
valiantly showed always great cowardice.

We felt much inclined at first to denominate him a case of abulia, but his stubbornness in
recalcitrancy led us to change our opinion.  From the above physical signs and mental phenomena
he was clearly a constitutional inferior.

Some facts we obtained on the family history were most significant.  The mother of William
suffered from attacks which were undoubtedly epileptic.  Her mother, in turn, had convulsions
at least during one pregnancy.  We did not learn whether or not she had them at other times.
No other points of significance in that family are known.  The father himself was brought up,
as he says, strictly, but he was inclined to be wild, and he has indulged for many years altogether
too much in tobacco and alcohol.  He is distinctly a weak type and the poorest specimen of
his family.  William is the only child.  There was nothing peculiar in developmental history
until he was 2 1/2 years old when he suffered from ``brain fever and spinal meningitis.'' 
This was said to have left him with a stiff right arm and to account for his being left handed.
(We could discover no difference in the reflexes.)  Then at another period he was sick in bed
for 6 months with some unknown, but not very serious illness.  The mother has been dead for
years and so we were unable to get accurate details about this.  At a very early age William
sought the pleasures of tobacco, even when a child of 6 or 7 he used his pennies for that purpose.
He was brought up in an environment defective on account of his father being a poor earner
and weak in discipline.  But still his parent took for years a great deal of interest in him
and it was not until the boy had proven himself most difficult that his father proclaimed himself
unable to manage his son.

At about 10 years of age William began running away from home and manufacturing untrue stories.
One of his favorite statements was that his father had been killed in an accident.  It is notable
that all these years he has been attempting to gain sympathy for this or that assumed condition,
whether it be his own alleged physical ailments, or fictitious family difficulties.  As a matter
of fact, during this time he has been in some good homes, failing each time to comport himself
so that he could be retained there.  It was typical that he reiterated, ``I have no friends;
there is no one to stick up for me.''  Besides being in three institutions before he was 16
years old, William had been in homes which he had found when he had run away, or in which he
had been placed by his father or by social agencies, the services of which had been evoked.
His stealing was often done with an extraordinary lack of foresight.  For instance, in one
good position that had been found for him he took a box of cigars, when, of course, as the
newcomer he would have been suspected, and even after his employers made it clear to him that
they knew of the theft he took another box the next day.  His lying under all occasions was
nothing short of astonishing.  To even his best friends he offered all sorts of fabulous tales
which one iota of forethought would have made him realize would redound to his disadvantage.
Almost his only show of common sense in this was when he gave an assumed name while getting
a new position, and even this performance could hardly be considered deeply rational.  It is
hardly necessary to give lengthy specimens of his falsifications; they always pervaded his
stories about himself, but strangely enough he acknowledged many of his delinquencies.  A good
example of the latter was when he collected a little money for a new employer and on the way
back, looking in a shop window, saw an electrical toy and immediately bought it.  He then went
home, not even returning to the office to get the wages which were due him.  An example of
his lying is his responses to questions about his schooling.  He maintained that he only reached
the third grade.  (In reality he could do sixth grade work at least.)  He said, ``I know long
division by about 13 and about 5 figures.  I don't know it by any other numbers.'' William
maintained these same characteristics over the 6 years during which we have good data about
him.  We know he continued the same kind of a career for a year or so afterwards.

Three years later we have direct information from his family concerning William.  His habits
of prevarication have been kept up steadily, so it is stated.  He has been in and out of institutions
and at present is serving a sentence for larceny.  He all along has been unwilling to face
realities and has lied against his own interests continually.  For instance, we are told that
if he lost a place, instead of obtaining the help his family would have been willing to give
him in gaining another, he would steadily pretend to be holding the former position.  He is
still considered utterly unreliable and a thoroughly weak character with a tendency to meet
a situation as readily by a lie as another person would tend to react by speaking the truth.
People who have known him of late speak of him as being at 21 ``just the same fellow,'' which
probably indicates that he is thoroughly a victim of habit formation as well as of innate tendencies.

---------------------------------------------------------------   
Mentality.  (Typical constitutional inferior.)       Case 26.     
                                           Boy, age 16 years.     
     Heredity:  Mother epileptic.  Maternal grandmother           
         had convulsions.  Father alcoholic and                   
         tobacco in excess--weak type.                
      Developmental conditions:  Early disease of the             
                 central nervous system.      
Delinquencies:                     Mentality:      
Running away.                           Abilities irregular,     
Stealing.                               psychic episodes.     
Lying.
---------------------------------------------------------------

CASE 27

Summary:  Case of a boy, age 16 years, who told the most extraordinary stories of his vagrant
life and the character of his family to officers of several organizations who tried to help
him.  He understood well that evidences of his unreliability would count against him.  His
stories, although often repeated, were not credited, and later, after a home had been found
for him, he began a new series of lies that seemed almost delusional and somewhat paranoidal.
After months during which much had been done for him it was suddenly discovered that he was
an epileptic.

John F. appealed to an agency for assistance.  He told a story of having wandered with his
brother since he was a young boy.  ``My father was insane from what my uncle did to my mother.
He drowned her.  The house caught on fire and he blamed her for it.  She said she didn't. 
She was too sick to get up and he took her out of the house and his big son pumped water on
her.  She was pretty near dead anyhow.  We was too little to do anything.  I seen it.  I remember
that all right.  I can see that yet Brother and sister died about 3 years ago.  Brother took
sick from sleeping out.  We slept around in barns for 2 years.  Father was in an insane hospital
in Kansas.  I think my uncle was hanged at N. Junction.  We did not stay there.  I remember
yet when they went to put my mother in the grave.  I jumped in with her.  We put right out
and after awhile folks wrote that father was dead.''

So much attention would not have been paid to this gruesome tale had it not been repeated to
various people during the course of several months.  The boy wrote letters reiterating these
incidents.  His stories always went on to include the most surprising amount of abuse.  It
seemed that everywhere he had been illtreated.  Farmers had whipped him, or clothed him badly,
or defrauded him of his wages.

Physically, we found John to be in good general condition.  A strong active country boy.  No
serious defect of any kind was discovered.

On mental tests he did better than we expected.  To be sure he was very backward in arithmetic,
but then his story was that he had hardly ever been to school at all.  He certainly did well
in many of our tests with concrete material, but the results as a whole were curiously irregular,
even if we allowed for his deficient schooling.  At that time we were disinclined to pass ultimate
judgment on his mentality without knowing more about his antecedents.

On the ``Aussage'' Test he gave only 11 bare items on free recital.  On questioning 19 more
details were added.  Of the entire number only 3 were incorrect, and these were not serious
mistakes.  Of 6 suggestions offered he accepted 3.

The history of this boy and his family has never been forthcoming.  The authorities in his
alleged home State have not been able to trace his family, which they could have done had his
stories been true.  Their report made it clear that the boy's reiterated family history was
a fabrication--the raison d'etre of which is still in doubt.  In spite of his lying the boy
was found a desirable home in the country at the work for which he was suited.  After staying
for a few weeks he returned to the city and got lodgings for himself.  We next heard of him
because he was induced by a ``hold-up'' man to secrete a revolver on his person while the police
were in the neighborhood.  Upon looking up his landlady, it was found that while with her he
had suffered from epileptic attacks.  These had not been observed during the several months
we had previously known him, and he had strongly denied them to us.  In our court work we constantly
inquire for evidences of epilepsy; in this case we received nothing but negation.  After he
served his sentence this young man was lost sight of.  Even in the institution to which he
had been sent he continued his fanciful and often hideous stories, still largely centered about
the idea that he had suffered unjustly wherever he had been.

No complete summary of causative factors is possible in this case.  The major cause for his
lying as well as other delinquencies, particularly his vagrancy, is, of course, the mental
traits peculiar to epilepsy.

CHAPTER VI

CONCLUSIONS

CHARACTERISTICS OF THE INDIVIDUAL. DIAGNOSIS

PHYSICAL FINDINGS

Our 19 mentally normal cases (18 females, 1 male) showed:

Good general condition. . . . . . . . . . . . . 14       Fair general condition. . . . . .
. . . . . . . .2       Poor general condition. . . . . . . . . . . . . .1       Poor development.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2       Poor development, undersized for age. . . . . . .2 
Defective vision. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6       Headaches . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .4       Mild nervous symptoms . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2       Tonsils and
adenoids. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3       Fainting attacks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. .1      Gynecological ailments. . . . . . . . . . . . . .6       Abdominal tumor, etc. .
. . . . . . . . . . . . .1      Hutchinsonian teeth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2      ``Stigmata
of degeneracy''. . . . . . . . . . . .3       Premature sex development . . . . . . . . . . . .2

Comparing the above with the findings by previous writers we see little chance to draw safe
deductions.  So many of the foreign cases have been insane; they can be more nearly compared
with our 7 border-line types where all sorts of physical conditions may be found.  It is notable
that a large percentage of our mentally normal cases are in good general condition.  Defective
vision in 6 cases may be only a coincidence, but perhaps resulting nervous irritation was sometimes
a factor in producing misconduct.  Headaches, which Stemmermann makes so much of, appear as
an incident in only a small number of our cases; her emphasis on periodicity also we cannot
corroborate, there are hints of it in only one or two instances, but then her cases for the
most part are not comparable to ours.  That 6 out of 18 females should have had severe gynecological
ailments is not to be wondered at, considering the trend of their lives, but, in turn, there
can be little doubt that, as in Cases 16, 18, and 21, the local irritation tended to bring
about moral disabilities.

MENTAL FINDINGS

Considering first the question of mental capabilities we can classify our 19 normal cases as
follows:

Supernormal in ability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2  Precocious; later, still considered
bright. . . . . . . . 1   Good ability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6   Fair
ability, perhaps not quite up to the former classes. 6   Poor ability. . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 1   Poor ability, hysterical type . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1   Poor
in general, but with artistic and literary ability . 1   Dull from physical causes, but later
normal . . . . . . . 1

Over and beyond the above enumeration there were some intensely interesting facts which came
out during the intimate study of these cases.  We are at once forced to agree with previous
writers that an unusual number of the pathological liar group show great aptitude for language.
This is shown by their general conversational ability and by the fact that many of them have
found out themselves that they had capacity, for instance, for writing compositions.  Taking
our group of pathological liars in the strict sense, as given in Chapter III, we find that
no less than 7 of these 12 have been given to writing compositions and stories.  Three of them
had definitely commenced long stories or novels.  It is most unusual among other offenders
to find evidence of any such tendencies.  A considerable number of our group were characterized
as great talkers, and several as romantic, dramatic, fantastic, etc., even by ordinary observers.
All this goes to show clearly that the native traits making for verbal fluency are strongly
correlated with pathological lying.  When it comes to consideration of such an instance as
Case 11 we have the point more strongly brought out.  Here the individual is fairly swung down
his life's course as the irregularity of his capacities direct.  His language ability carries
him along as nothing else will.  In corroboration of this interesting point the conclusions
of other authors should be noted.

The aberrational types which show pathological lying are, several of them, depicted in our
Chapter VI.  But little in summary of them needs to be said.  The general mental and moral
weakness of the constitutional inferior very naturally leads him to become a pathological liar;
he follows, by virtue of his make-up, the path of immediate least resistance--lying.  The episodic
lying or aimless false accusations of the choreic psychosis needs no comment--the confusional
mental state sometimes accompanying that disease readily predisposes toward fantastic treatment
of realities.  The relationship of constitutional excitement to pathological lying is less
well recognized, but fully explicable when we recollect the rate at which ideas present themselves
in the mental content of such individuals, who have little time, as it were, to discriminate
the true from the false.  The mental conditions leading to purposeless prevarication which
supervene in the real hysterical mental states, or during the course of traumatic psychoneurosis
are well known.  The individual is to be surely regarded, at least temporarily, as suffering
from a psychosis in many of these instances, and falsification, while it may be difficult to
distinguish between delusion and lying, is a well recognized phenomenon.  The very deliberate
lying of psychopathic individuals, such as Case 25, who, though so strongly aberrational, do
not fit under the head of any of the classic insanities, is a matter for earnest consideration
by all who have to deal with delinquents.  There is altogether too little general knowledge
of this type of fact.  The correlation of the various epileptic mental states with pathological
lying is well recognized.  In many of the cases cited by foreign writers it has turned out
that the individual was subject to epileptic seizures.  It is another illustration of the great
variety of epileptic phenomena.  Something of a point has been made in the literature heretofore
that abnormalities of sexual life are unduly correlated with the inclination to pathological
lying, and the conclusion is sometimes drawn, as by Stemmermann (loc. cit. p. 90), that the
two prove a degenerative tendency.  Our material would not tend to show this nearly as much
as it would prove that the psychical peculiarities follow on a profound upset caused by unfortunate
sex experiences.

A characteristic of pathological liars is undoubtedly a deep-set egocentrism, as Risch states.
If one goes over our cases it may be seen that there is exhibited frequently in the individual
an undue amount of self-assertion.  There is very little sympathy for the concern of others,
and, indeed, remarkably little apperception of the opinions of others.  How frequently the
imagery of the heroic role of the self recurs, and how frequently it occupies a central stronghold
is seen by the fact that nearly all of our cases indubitably demonstrate the phenomenon.

Most of our cases have been studied by the application of a wide range of tests.  Indeed many
of the individuals have been studied over and over.  It is beyond our point at present to go
over the separate findings because there is no evidence of a strong correlation of any type
of peculiarity, except the ones mentioned here, with the pathological lying.  Memory processes,
for instance, as ordinarily tested seem to be normally acute.

We have naturally been much interested in the result of the ``Aussage'' or Testimony Test work
with this present group, on account of the possibility of demonstrating correlations between
laboratory work and the individual's reactions in social intercourse, particularly when there
has been falsification upon the witness stand.  In general we may say that while we have seen
normal individuals who are not falsifiers do just as badly as a number of these individuals,
yet for the group the findings are exceedingly bad.  Perhaps the better way of stating it would
be to say that not one case shows the sturdily honest type of response which is frequently
met with during the course of testing other delinquents, even as young as the youngest of the
cases cited here.  Our findings stand in great contrast, we note, to the results on other test
work.  When looking at the table given above we see that a large share of our 19 normal cases
are up to the average in general ability, and yet as a group they fall far below the average
on this Testimony Test.  Take Cases 8 and 9, for instance-- both of them bright girls with,
indeed, considerable ability in many directions, and yet both of them give a large number of
extremely incorrect items in reporting what they saw in the ``Aussage'' picture, and also both
accept a very large proportion of the suggestions offered.  It seems as if frequently in these
cases there is no real attempt to discriminate what was actually seen in the picture from what
might have been in a butcher shop.  In most cases the fictitious items were given upon questioning,
but without the offering of suggestions.  When the individual was allowed to give merely free
recital the result was better.  This, however, follows the general rule.

A general survey of work on other tests has not shown anything immediately significant in correlations,
and this makes the result upon the ``Aussage'' much more notable.  Perhaps it may be urged
that if these individuals had been told to key themselves up to do this test well, being forewarned
that otherwise it would reveal their weaknesses, they could have done better.  Some hint of
this may be seen in our story of the results of tests in Case 3.  But of course the same might
be argued about the other test work where no such tendency to poor results was discernible.

The following table, with a word of explanation, will serve to bring out results on this test
clearly to even the reader unfamiliar with the specific details of this subject.  A general
description of the test is found in our introduction.

----------------------------------------------------------------
      ITEMS REPORTED  ITEMS INCORRECT     SUGGESTIONS  
CASE                                  Denominator=number offered
       Free    On     Number  Percent                             
    Recital  Questioning              Numerator = number accepted 

16    16<2>   12<1>      3    10%         2/7   15    10      14<3>      3    12%         2/5
4     12      28<6>      6    15%         3/4   19    15<2>    8<2>      4    17%         4/6
3     17<2>   20<5>      7    19%         0/6   7     11<2>   17<4>      6    21%         2/5
6     17<1>   12<6>      7    24%         1/7   13    8       21<7>      7    24%         4/4
8     16      28<12>     12   27%         5/7 9     12      32<12>     12   27%         6/7
14    7       21<8>       8   28%         4/7   2     10      12<7>       7   32%         1/5
20    6        9<8>       8   53%         2/5 ----------------------------------------------------------------

Only 13 of our 19 mentally normal cases were found to have had the ``Aussage'' Test done so
uniformly that results could be fairly compared, as in the above table.  The reader will find
it easy to refer back to the case for noting other correlations with behavior.  In the first
double column the items which were given in free recital come first, and in the second part
the number of positive responses to questions by the examiner.  The coefficients attached to
these represent the number of egregious errors or entirely fictitious items given.  It should
be clearly understood that slight deviations from facts, for instance in color, are not counted
as errors for our present purposes.  In a later study on this whole topic of the psychology
of testimony there will be much more complete itemizing.  The errors in which we are particularly
interested can perhaps best be called pure inventions.  In the next double column is given,
first, the total number of incorrect items and, then, the percentage of these to the total
number of items reported.  In the last column suggestibility is dealt with.  We have been accustomed
to offer 7 suggestions, asking the individual whether such and such things which might well
be in a butcher shop really appeared in the picture.  For several reasons not all of the 7
suggestions were asked in every case, therefore the result is best viewed as a statement in
fractions-- the numerator being the number of suggestions accepted and the denominator the
number of suggestions offered.

As a last statement on this question which we put to ourselves, namely, whether pathological
liars show the same traits in the laboratory as they do on the witness stand or in general
social life, we can answer in the affirmative.  We may repeat that others have made as bad
records as some of this group, but taking the group as a whole, it is unlike any random 13
cases which might be picked out from our other classes of mentally normal offenders.  On the
other hand, many a feebleminded testifier has done vastly better than the median of this group.
The errors themselves are of the purely inventional type, such as your ordinary report from
a mentally normal person does not contain.  (There is perhaps one interesting exception to
this; Case 3.  The report given by this subject included egregious denials of some of the main
objects in the picture, and so was fictitious to this extent.  She did not say that she did
not know whether these to-be-expected objects really were in the picture--she insisted that
they were not.)  So far as suggestibility is concerned, there are great differences among even
normal people in all classes.  For comparison with the above group, we may take 63 cases of
mentally normal delinquents, all of whom had been offered the full 7 suggestions.  The median
error of this group was two.  Lower than the fraction thus obtained was the result on only
4 of the present cases.  We have been interested to see that with some of the pathological
liars there is no great suggestibility.  The person is willing to deal in his own inventions,
but not with false ideas which others attempt to put in his mind.

DIAGNOSIS

The essentials for the diagnosis of pathological lying are contained in the definition at the
beginning of our book.  The above considerations of the physical and mental make-up of pathological
liars should leave little question as to what belongs in this class.  Of course here, as in
the study of any mental traits, borderline cases difficult to discriminate will always be found.
Sometimes one will not be able to determine whether the individual is a true pathological liar
or merely a prevaricator for a normal purpose.  We have already stated our inability to determine
this in some cases, and yet the nucleus of the type stands out sharply and clearly, and there
can be no doubt as to what is practically meant by the definition.

The differential diagnosis involves consideration of the characteristics of the insane, defective,
and epileptic.  We repeat that we agree that the mentally abnormal person may engage in pathological
lying quite apart from any expression of delusions, and that during the course of such lying
the insanity may not be recognized.  This occurred in many of the cases cited in the foreign
literature, and if the prior histories of many individuals now in insane hospitals were known
undoubtedly such lying would be frequently noted.  But once the person is recognized as insane
he need not be classified as a pathological liar.  This term should be reserved, as we stated
previously, for normal individuals who engage in pathological lying.  Of course other observers
have noted such lying in people who could not be designated as being mentally abnormal, but
our material is peculiarly rich in examples of this kind.

CORRELATIONS STUDIED FOR CAUSES

Heredity.  We come now to a very interesting group of facts--showing at once complete corroboration
of previous observers' statements that pathological liars are extraordinarily ``erbliche belastet.''
Taking our 19 mentally normal cases we find the following:

Insanity in the direct family (four of these being a parent). .6  One or both parents severely
alcoholic. . . . . . . . . . . . .6  Criminal or very dissolute parent . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . .4  Suicide of parent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1  Extremely neuropathic
parent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1  Syphilitic parent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .2  Epileptic parent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1  Unsatisfactory
data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2  Reliable data showing normal family stock
. . . . . . . . . . .2

Thus, out of the 19 cases there are only three or four which do not come of stock showing striking
defects.  Now, as we go on to show later that unfortunate conditions or experiences were often
causal factors, the total findings seem to show clearly that these latter influences generally
bore their unfortunate fruition upon inherited instability.

The heredity in the border-line cases is, as might be expected, even worse.  These facts are
easily discerned in their respective case histories.

The question of inheritance of similar mental traits is, of course, important.  We have found
absolutely no proof of the trait of pathological lying, as such, being inherited.  The reader
will note with interest particularly the facts in Cases 2 and 4, where we at first thought
we had to deal with inheritance, but later found there was no blood relationship between the
supposed parent and child.  In those instances the lying of the younger individual was much
more likely to be the result of psychic contagion, and this also may be largely the explanation
of Cases 6 and 8, where an older relative was well known to be a prevaricator.  The bad inheritance
in these cases then turns out to be, corroborating what we found in studying the general problem
of criminality,[25] a matter of coming from stock that shows defects in various ways-all making,
however, in the offspring for moral instability.

[25]``Inheritance as a Factor in Criminality.  A Study of a Thousand Cases of Young Repeated
Offenders.''  Edith R. Spaulding and William Healy.  pp. 24.  Bulletin of the American Academy
of Medicine, Vol. XV. February 1914.

Developmental Physical Conditions.  Inquiry into our 19 mentally normal cases gave the following
findings:  Antenatal conditions were defective in 2 cases on account of syphilis and in one
case from advanced age of the mother.  The accident during pregnancy to the mother in one case,
the severe mental shock in another, and the effect of illegitimacy in still another we can
not evaluate.  In 2 cases there were operative births with, however, no bad results known.
One was a twin.  Early severe disease of the nervous system was experienced by one, and convulsions
during infancy by two others.  Another suffered from some unknown very severe early illness,
and one from prolonged digestive disturbance in infancy.  Three had in early childhood several
severe illnesses, one had a long attack of ``chorea.''  Two suffered from general nervousness,
incited in one case by the excessive use of tea and in the other by a similar use of coffee.
One was an habitual masturbator from childhood.  Difficult menstruation was reported in only
one case.  In 5 cases there was a quite normal early developmental period, according to reliable
accounts.  In 3 cases the early developmental histories are completely unknown, and in 3 others
uncertain.  The data of developmental history in the border-line types may be easily noted
in the case histories.

Previous Ailments.  Ailments suffered from in our 19 cases after the early developmental period
amount to very little.  The several gynecological troubles have been mentioned above under
the head of Physical Conditions.  In one other case there had been urethritis previously. 
Head injuries, which play such a significant part in the study of criminalistics, find no place
in our mentally normal series, but should always be kept in mind in considering the border-line
types.  Epilepsy as a possible factor in criminalistic problem cases is to be remembered.

Habits.  We have already mentioned the effect upon nervous conditions of excessive tea and
coffee in two of our cases.  Masturbation, including its indirect effect, particularly upon
the psyche, appears to be a very important feature of these cases.  We should be far from considering
that we have full data on all of our cases and yet this stands out most strongly.  We have
had positive reports from relatives or from the individual showing this certainly to be a factor
in 7 out of the 19 cases.  This is a very large finding, when it is considered that the data
are frequently unobtainable.  Of course we are not speaking here of masturbation per se, but
only of the fact of its ascertained relationship to the pathological lying.  This is only part
of the whole matter of sex experience which, we find upon gathering our material together,
plays such an enormous role.

Age of Onset.  It is very easy to see that the tendency to pathological lying begins in the
early formative years.  Common-sense observation of general character building would tend to
make us readily believe that if an individual got through the formative years of life with
a normal hold upon veracity he would never become a pathological liar.  We can see definite
beginnings at certain critically formative periods, as in Case 6 and perhaps in Case 3, but
our material shows that most cases demonstrate more gradually insidious beginnings.  (Case
21 is in this respect in a class by itself.)  As we stated in our introduction, it is clear
from the previous studies of older individuals that the nature of the beginnings were not learned
because it was too late.  Our material offers unusual opportunities in this direction and shows
the fact of genesis in childhood most clearly.  For specific and often most interesting details
we refer the reader to our various case histories.

Sex.  Our findings show only 1 male out of 19 mentally normal cases.  A general observation
by practical students of conduct, namely, that females tend to deviate from the truth more
readily than males, is more than thoroughly borne out here.  There are certainly several social
and psychological reasons for this, but they need not be gone into here.  If our figures seem
not to be corroborated by the findings of previous students it is only because the figures
are not comparable-- the latter have mixed the mentally abnormal with the pathological liars
proper.  It will be noted that in our examples of border-line cases 5 out of the 8 are males.
Cases of pathological swindling by mentally abnormal individuals, such as we have avoided,
make up much of the foreign literature.  We can easily see that the social opportunities for
swindling are vastly greater for males than those offered to the opposite sex.  Sex differences,
as in many instances, must not be taken here too seriously because social environment, differing
so greatly for the sexes, is largely responsible for the behavior which we superficially judge
to be entirely the expression of innate characteristics.

Environment.  We are far from feeling that a mere enumeration of material environmental conditions
tells the story of environmental influences important for our present subject.  The psyche
is frequently most profoundly affected by environmental conditions which even a trained observer
would not detect.  But conditions in the total number of unselected cases show something, and,
for whatever it is worth, we offer the following enumeration of environment in our 19 normal
cases, who with much more reason might be expected to be largely influenced by surroundings
than our group of border-line cases.

Reasonably good home from birth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5  Defective home conditions
through poverty . . . . . . . . . . .2  Very ignorant parents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .2  Immoralities in home life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6  Marked defect
in parental control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6  Very erratic home conditions-parent abnormal.
. . . . . . . . .1

Early Mental Experiences.  As will have been observed by the reader in going over the case
histories, the early mental experiences of many of our group of mentally normal pathological
liars have been shockingly bad.  Full appreciation of this can only be gained through perusal
of the text, but here we may call attention to the fact that no less than 8 of the 19 have
had very early untoward sex experiences, that 5 were markedly under the influence of bad companions,
including even the influence in one or two cases of vicious grown people.  The sex experiences
we have just enumerated were received through others--we are not here speaking of masturbation,
which is discussed above.

Psychic Contagion.  Direct contagion of the tendency to lie seems more than likely to take
place, at least during the more plastic periods of life.  It may be that this only develops
when there is some sort of predisposition to instability; our related findings on defective
heredity would seem to indicate the fact.  It should be noted that in 5 instances out of our
19 mentally normal (Cases 2, 4, 6, 8, 20) some other member of the household, we learned from
reliable sources, was known as a chronic prevaricator.

Mental Conflicts.  The fact that several of our cases started lying from the time when there
occurred some experience accompanied by a deep emotional context, and that this experience
and the emotion was repressed, seems to point clearly to the part which repressed mental life
may play in the genesis.  That as children they kept to themselves secrets of grave import
and dwelled long on them, shows in a large number of our cases.  Anything deeply upsetting,
such as the discovery of the facts of sex life or questions about family relationships, are
the incidents which cause the trouble.  For students of modern psychology nothing more need
be said on this point--the concrete issues are perceivable in the case histories. 

Adolescence.  Quite apart from the age of onset, we may consider the physical and psychical
instabilities of adolescence as effective causes of pathological lying.  Of course it is equally
true that many other tendencies to peculiarity are accentuated at this period.  It has been
suggested that cases which have their origin largely in the unstable reactions of adolescence
have much the better prognosis, but it seems that not enough evidence has been accumulated
as yet to justify us in this conclusion, which, we acknowledge, may prove to be true.

Irritative Conditions.  In the same way the various types of irritative conditions, physical
and mental, may be considered as exciting moments.  Individuals with a tendency to pathological
lying will no doubt show aggravation of the phenomenon at periods of particular stress.  We
have heard it suggested in several cases by relatives that the menstrual period, for instance,
brings about an access of tendency to prevarication.  We would grant the point without conceding
this exciting factor to be a fundamental cause.  (Case 21, we may say again, illustrates a
special fact.)  The periodicity which Stemmermann makes much of may merely mean succumbing
during a period of physiologic stress.  Social stress also may be met by pathological lying,
in the same way that the individual who finds himself in a tight place may attempt to get out
of it by running away.  We have already spoken of the likeness of social and physical stress
as showing when the weak individual is brought to bay.  That pathological lying does not run
an even course, but shows remarkable fluctuations with powerful exacerbations, is undoubtedly
to be explained by changes of inner and outer stress. 

Habit Formation.  The influence of habit in causing chronicity must always be definitely reckoned
with.  It is hardly necessary to say more than a word on this subject.  Even the individual,
as in Cases 8, 9, and 10, comes to strongly realize it.  Particularly is this point to be estimated
in considering the possibilities of a rapid cure.

Special Mental Abilities.  Once more, for the sake of completeness in giving a category of
causes, we should call attention to the fact acknowledged by all thorough students of this
subject, namely, that, other things being equal, it is particularly the individual who has
linguistic abilities, who is especially good at verbal composition, that seems to have most
incentive to dally with the truth.  But beyond this we would insist that a combination of verbal
ability with proportionate mental defects in other fields gives a make-up which finds the paths
of least resistance directly along the lines of prevarication.

SOCIAL CORRELATIONS

The role played in society by the pathological liar is very striking.  The characteristic behavior
in its unreasonableness is quite beyond the ken of the ordinary observer.  The fact that here
is a type of conduct regularly indulged in without seeming pleasurable results, and frequently
militating obviously against the direct interests of the individual, makes a situation inexplicable
by the usual canons of inference.  To a certain extent the tendencies of each separate case
must be viewed in their environmental context to be well understood.  For example, the lying
and swindling which center about the assumption of a noble name and a corresponding station
or affecting the life of a cloister brother, such as we find in the cases cited by Longard,
show great differences from any material obtainable in our country.  In interpretation of this,
one has to consider the glamour thrown about the socially exalted or the life of the recluse--a
glamour which obtains readily among the simple-minded people of rural Europe.  Then, too, this
very simple-mindedness, with the great differences which exist between peasant and noble, leads
in itself to much opportunity for cheating.

With us, especially in the newer work of courts, which are rapidly becoming in their various
social endeavors more and more intimately connected with many phases of life, the pathological
liar becomes of main interest in the role of accuser of others, self-accuser, witness, and
general social disturber.

Here again, we may call attention to the fact, which is of great social importance, namely,
that the person who is seemingly normal in all other respects may be a pathological liar. 
It might be naturally expected that the feebleminded, who frequently have poor discernment
of the relation of cause and effect, including the phenomena of conduct, would often lie without
normal cause.  As a matter of fact there is surprisingly little of this among them, and one
can find numerous mental defectives who are faithful tellers of the truth, while even, as we
have found by other studies, some are good testifiers.  Exaggerated instances of the type represented
by Case 12, where the individual by the virtue of language ability endeavors to maintain a
place in the world which his abilities do not otherwise justify, and where the very contradiction
between abilities and disabilities leads to the development of an excessive habit of lying,
are known in considerable number by us.  Many of these mentally defective verbalists do not
even grade high enough to come in our border-line cases, and yet frequently, by virtue of their
gift of language, the world in general considers them fairly normal.  They are really on a
constant social strain by virtue of this, and while they are not purely pathological liars
they often indulge in pathological lying, a distinction we have endeavored to make clear in
our introduction.

It stands out very clearly, both in previous studies of this subject and in viewing our own
material, that pathological lying is very rarely the single offense of the pathological liar.
The characteristics of this lying show that it arises from a tendency which might easily express
itself in other forms of misrepresentation.  Swindling, sometimes stealing, sometimes running
away from home (assuming another character and perhaps another name) may be the results of
the same general causes in the individual.  The extent to which these other delinquencies are
carried on by a pathological liar depends again largely upon environmental conditions--for
instance, truancy is very difficult in German cities; a long career of thieving, under the
better police surveillance of some European countries, is less possible than with us; while
swindling, for the reason given above, seems easier there.

Running away from home and itineracy show in a wonderfully strong correlation with pathological
lying, both in previous studies and in our own material.  Several authors, particularly Stemmermann
in her survey of the subject, comment on this.  This phenomenon, not only on account of the
numerical findings, but also from a logical standpoint, is easily seen to be the expression,
in another form of conduct, of the essential tendencies of the pathological liar.  It is part
of the general character instability, the unwillingness to meet the realities of life, the
inclination to escape consequences.  As a matter of fact, frequently the pathological liar
gets himself in a tight place by lying, and then the easiest escape is by running away from
the scene.  The delinquencies of our present group as given below can with profit be compared
with our previous statistics[26] on a large group of offenders.  We gathered the facts concerning
a series of 1000 carefully studied youthful repeated offenders.  Of 694 male offenders, 261
were guilty of running away to the extent that it made a more or less serious offense.  Of
306 female offenders, 76 committed the same type of offense.  For comparison with the present
group it is to be remembered that 18 out of the 19 mentally normal pathological liars were females.

                                     NORMAL  BORDER-LINE     
Running away  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12        6     
Stealing.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7         6     
Swindling  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7         2     
Vagrancy.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 0         4      
Attempt at suicide  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 0         2      
Sex offenses  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8         1      
False accusations.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10        4     
Self-accusations .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3         2     
Abortion.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1         0

[26] P. 140 ff.  William Healy.  ``The Individual Delinquent.'' Pp. 830. Boston:  Little, Brown,
and Co.  1915.

We have given figures on false accusations here, including other cases than were enumerated
in our special chapter on the subject.  In that chapter the center of interest was on the false
accusations, but it is true that in certain other cases of pathological lying false accusations
were indulged in as a somewhat minor offense.  The 9 cases enumerated as swindlers showed this
offense in varying degrees, as might naturally be expected by the differences in ages, which,
if nothing else, makes for variations in the evolution of social and character tendencies.
Perusal of the cases shows the small beginnings as well as the flagrant offenses on this order.
As we previously have stated, we have avoided dealing with the older careers of notorious swindlers.
The nature of the sex offenses can be learned from the case histories by those who wish to
make special inquiry.  Masturbation we have regarded more as a causative factor, and have spoken
of it in a previous section.  Truancy we have not enumerated.  It goes without saying that
it had been indulged in by practically all of the males and by a considerable number of the
females in our cases.

The observer of delinquents cannot help being constantly impressed by the fact that the offense
of lying seems to the usual offender small in proportion to the commission of other criminalistic
deeds.  Particularly does this come out when one observes the chronic liar growing up in a
household where grave sex and other delinquencies are habitual occurrences.  Should his lying
be compared with these major anti-social transactions?  Indeed, it might be a field for speculation
as to whether, given certain qualities of mind, imaginative powers, etc., pathological lying
may not play the part of a vicarious delinquency--being to the delinquent apparently less pernicious
than more objective offenses.  In our case histories may be seen some indications of this.

PROGNOSIS.  TREATMENT

In discussing prognosis and treatment we can eliminate at once consideration of pathological
lying by the insane.  The outcome there depends upon what can be done for the underlying psychosis.
We have avoided intimate discussion of these cases, but many suggestions of the unalterableness
of the full-fledged tendencies among the insane are found in the European literature cited
by us.  Even discussion of the outcome of the border-line cases, such as we have given examples
of, needs but short shrift.  Everyone knows the extreme difficulties of dealing with constitutional
inferiors; marked cases are socially fit only for proper colonization.  The epileptic, in default
of cure of his disease, is ever going to be prone to many peculiar mental states which may
involve pathological lying.  The slight mental confusion of chorea, which may lead to false
accusation, as we have seen in Case 23, is one of the most curable of all abnormal mental states.
With proper attention to diagnosis and treatment, favorable outcome of cases of hysteria, such
as that in Case 24, is frequently seen.  Another type which cannot be handled except by permanent
segregation is the thoroughly aberrational and socially dangerous class represented by Case
25, however one designates the type.  Much more, undoubtedly, can be done for such a border-line
individual as Case 12, if there is sufficient cooperation among educational and reformatory
institutions and the courts.  It has seemed to us that the chief cause of failure in this interesting
case has been the fact that this young man could go on ever entering new social situations
and finding new worlds for exploitation because no one had the means at hand for securing facts
concerning his past or for ascertaining what any good diagnostician could easily perceive to
be his limitations and tendencies.

Very much more to the point is consideration of the actual and possible outcome in cases of
pathological lying by normal individuals.  Here, as in other matters where bodily, mental,
and social issues are blended, no prognosis or outlook can be rationally offered without consideration
of possible changes in the circumstances peculiar to the given case.  First and foremost stands
out the fact that cure of the tendency sometimes happens even after long giving way to it.
In this statement we are not contradictory to some previous writers.

As Stemmermann says, out of the general literature there is not much from which one can deduce
any principles of prognosis.  But, again, we would insist that one of the great weaknesses
has been that earlier studies have not carefully distinguished between the mentally normal
and the abnormal cases of pseudologia phantastica.  When, for instance, Forel speaks of pathological
liars as being constitutionally abnormal individuals who are not curable, he fails to differentiate
where profitable differentiation can be made.  If our own work is of any practical value it
is in offering safer grounds for prognosis and treatment.  Stemmermann summarizes well her
follow-up work done upon cases seen years previously by other observers.  Some of these are
still in institutions.  After a period of well- doing several of these have become backsliders
and reverted again to lying and swindling.  Very few appear to have been cured, but yet some
of the facts of betterment are most convincing.  This author states that, at the most, one
dares to ponder over the point as to whether there are not cases which recover, particularly
when the pathological lying is a phenomenon of adolescence.

Our own material is, in part, too recently studied to form anything like a generalization concerning
prognosis.  Many years have to elapse before one can be sure there is not going to be a recurrence.
But one is not altogether certain that prognostic generalizations are of practical worth for
this group of mentally normal pathological liars.  So many incidental factors of physical,
mental, and social life, with all of the complicated background of the same, come in to make
the total result, that experiment and trial with the individual case, while hesitating to give
an exact prognosis, is perhaps the only sane procedure.  What we do know definitely is the
immensely favorable outcome in Cases 1, 4, 7, 19, and the promising betterment in several other
instances--all in direct contradiction to what we had expected from survey of previous literature.
In several of these cases the years have gone by with nothing but steady improvement.  The
difficulty in getting adequate treatment, either in home life or by the necessary individual
attention elsewhere, makes it impossible to say that many of the others also could not have
been favorably influenced.  Frequently a total alteration of environmental conditions is necessary,
and this, of course, is often very difficult to obtain.  Also it is extremely rare that one
can get the whole matter, and its sure social consequences, fairly and squarely met by anybody
with influence over the individual.  Until this can be done, little in the way of good results
may ever be expected.  The splendid attack made by relatives or others upon the situation in
Cases 1, 4, 7, possibly 14, and 19 tells the story of the prime necessity for adequate handling
of pathological lying.

Specific treatment of physical conditions should always be undertaken when necessary.  It should
go without saying that any individual who is open to the temptations of inner stress should
be strengthened at all points possible and relieved from all sources of irritation.  But, lest
anyone should become too much persuaded of the efficacy of surgical or other treatment, it
should be remembered that the psychical reactions, even where there is physical irritation,
involve the definite wearing of neural paths, with habit formations, which bodily treatment
can only slightly alter.  An enticing problem to the gynecologist is always the relationship
of pelvic, particularly sexual irritations, to conduct.  We cannot confirm the idea of a prime
causal connection in this particular, although we have evidence that betterment of the physical
ailment may lead to less inclination towards the unfortunate behavior.  In Case 1 the lying
came long before pelvic disease was acquired, but very likely the irritation of the latter
led to an accentuation of the psychical phenomena.  In Case 6 the typical conduct was persisted
in after remedy of the pelvic disorder; so also in Case 3 after relief of abdominal conditions,
and in Case 21 after cessation of pregnancy.  Other points bearing upon this may be read in
our case histories.  On the general problem of the possibility of physical treatment it will
be noted that a considerable share of all our cases were in good general condition.

In discussing treatment great emphasis should be placed upon the primary necessity for directly
meeting the pathological liar upon the level of the moral failures and making it plain that
these are known and understood.  It is very certain that frequently this type of prevaricator
has very little conception of the social antagonism which his habit arouses.  There is faulty
apperception of how others feel towards the lying, and to what depths the practice of this
habit leads.  Appreciation of these facts may be the first step towards betterment.  In several
of the improved cases we have mentioned that it was largely the acquirement of social foresight
which made the first step in a moral advance which finally won the day.  In this whole matter
the first ethical instruction may well be based upon the idea of self-preservation--after all
the backbone of much of our morals.  When it comes to specific details of treatment these must
be educational, alterative, and constructive.  In Cases 1 and 3 under treatment we know that
when the lying was discovered or suspected the individual was at once checked up and made to
go over the ground and state the real facts.  The pathological liar ordinarily reacts to the
accusation of lying by prevaricating again in self-defense, but when with the therapeutist
there has been the understanding that the tendency to lying is a habit which it is necessary
to break, the barricade of self- defense may not be thrown up.  An alterative measure of great
value, then, is directly to meet the specific lie on the spot, as it were, when it is told.

Next, accuracy of report may well be practiced as a special discipline.  In these normal cases
we have seen that there could be little doubt about the individual having self-control enough
to stick to the truth, if the will was properly directed.  Indeed, many of our cases were exceptionally
bright individuals with many good powers of observation and memory.  Had one the opportunity,
there can be little doubt but that training in the power to do well on such a test as that
afforded by the ``Aussage'' picture would have yielded good results.  Indeed, there is some
suggestion of this in our table of findings on this test, where we note that pathological liars,
when left merely to themselves and their first often comparatively meagre report on the picture,
give few incorrect details.  The difference in their report as compared with other observers
of the picture was found when they answered questions.  Since this is the case, there can be
little question that training in the power to respond accurately might be gained.

It may be of value in considering therapeutics of pathological lying to enumerate the general
run of treatment which was carried out in those instances where we know that betterment took
place.  Nearly always only a part of what we advised could be carried out, but, even so, a
brief statement of the conditions under which betterment was accomplished seems worth much.

Case 1 was treated first in an institution for delinquents where every effort was made to cure
her disease and where she was taught to employ herself in constructive work.  It was found
she had ability to design, and this was used to the utmost.  Then her lying tendencies were
checked by social disapprobation as much as possible.  A special effort was made toward this.
The girl was undoubtedly made more serious-minded by the after-effects of her experience and
perhaps by her disease.  She was later successfully handled at home by her sensible mother.
Leaving the years of adolescent instability behind her was also undoubtedly a factor in betterment.

Case 4 was taken in hand by a sterling character who restrained very carefully the tendency
to lying, and by firm methods showed her the social advantages of self-control in this respect.
At the same time she was given a vastly better environment, particularly in the matter of her
friends.  However, there is little doubt that nothing would have been accomplished in this
case without first a deep understanding of the girl's troubles and of her mental conflicts.

Case 7 was treated for her sex difficulties under the constant care of a vigorous mother, who
first, naturally, had to gain an understanding of the case.  With her bettered physical and
mental conditions, the girl was able steadily to hold a position for which earlier she had
no capacity.

Betterment in Case 14 came about mainly as the result of an understanding of the child's mental
conflicts and somewhat through partially bettered environmental conditions.  We learned lately
that the severe visual defect had been neglected.

In Case 15 the false accusations were made upon the basis of mental conflict.  Investigation
of the case, followed by the personal services of a probation officer and by the legal proceedings,
served to clear up conditions, including those of the family in general, so that the girl was
given a greater chance for success.

Case 19 seems to have been largely cured through the girl herself being able to work out her
mental conflicts.  Adolescence was a factor and she was tided over this period in a good environment
and with friends who understood her type of case and who were willing to put up with her aberrancies
for this time.  Although we would not minimize the efforts of stalwart friends, we may say
that there were more evidences of cure by self-help in this case than in any other we have seen. 

Lest we should seem to be placing too much emphasis upon adolescence, with the idea that the
mere passing of that period will lead to change in behavior, we cite Cases 3, 5, and 6, where
the addition of years has brought no betterment.  In neither of these was the essential nature
of the difficulty explored during earlier troublous periods.

An interesting consideration for treatment is embodied in the rational idea of utilizing the
special powers, so that there may be ample gratification in self-expression, and in use of
the imagination.  Through this new satisfaction there may be a mental swerving from the previous
paths strewn with pitfalls.  The inclination to verbal composition, already spoken of as existing
in so many cases, may be utilized, and imagination be given full sway in harmless directions.
It seems likely that just this deliberate practice may serve to more clearly demarcate truth
from falsehood in the individual's mind.  Unfortunately we have had too little actual proof
of the value of this method, some cases being worked on now are too recent for report, but
there is plenty of indication of the possibilities.  Had we been able to control environment
better, much more of this type of work would have been carried out.

A favorable outcome through this constructive treatment based upon utilizing the characteristic
linguistic powers of the pathological liar, is witnessed to by Stemmermann in her story of
Delbruck's G. N.  In the history of this case a delightful note of comedy is struck.  G. N.
was found to be a man of considerable literary ability.  He had been observed over the period
of 13 years.  After he was first studied he twice managed to go 3 years without succumbing
to his falsifying tendencies, and then found his chance for leading a blameless life by becoming
a newspaper man.  In fact, he reached an honored place as an editor.  Stemmermann suggests,
naively, that perhaps this calling is especially calculated to give the talents correlated
with pseudologia phantastica space for free play, so that the individual's special abilities
may not come in conflict with the law, or with social customs, and, on the other hand, may
be utilized in fruitful pursuits.

All together, one would certainly advise every effort being made towards specifically stabilizing
the pathological liar in the matter of truth-telling--by checking the springs of misconduct,
and by diverting energies and talents into their most suitable channels.  The problem must
ever be one for individual therapy.  Failures of treatment there may be, but from our study
we are much inclined to believe that well-calculated, constructive efforts will achieve goodly
success among those who are mentally normal.

INDEXES

INDEX OF AUTHORS

Belletrud Bresler, Johannes

Crothers, T. D.

Delbruck, A. Duprat, G.-L.

Ferriani, Ifino Forel

Gross, Hans

Hall, G. Stanley Healy, William Healy, William, and Fernald, Grace M. Henneberg Hinrichsen

Jorger

Keller Koelle, Th. Koppen

Longard

Mercier Meunier

Risch, Bernard Rouma

Spaulding, Edith R., and Healy, Willlam Stemmermann, Anna

Vogt

Wendt Wulffen, E.

INDEX OF TOPICS

Aberrational cases not definitively insane Accessory to murder, false self-accusation of Accusations,
pathological, Bresler's classification of Adolescence Adolf von X., case of Age of onset of
pathological lying  Amanda R. Annie F. Apperception, lack of, in certain cases Attitude, strong,
of pathological liars, see POISE ``Aussage,'' psychology of ``Aussage'' Test, see TESTIMONY TEST 

Bessie M. Betterment, conditions of in special cases Betterment, possibilities of  Beula D
Birdie M.

Chorea, psychosis of Choreic psychosis  Constitutional excitement  Constitutional inferior,
The  Constitutional inferiority

Day dreaming in special cases Delinquency, lying considered relatively a minor  Delinquency,
relation of, to lying "Der grune Heinrich'' Developmental conditions Diagnosis of pathological
lying Drug habitues, lying of

Edna F. Egocentrism in certain cases Emma X. Emotions, abnormality of, in certain cases Environmental
causes Epilepsy, case of Epileptic mental states Episodic pathological lying

False accusations of illtreatment; of incest; of murder; of poisoning attempt; of sex assault;
of sex immorality; of sex perversions; of thieving False self-accusations of accessory to murder;
of sex immorality Feeblemindedness, relation of, to pathological lying 

Georgia B. Gertrude 

Habit, formation of lying Habits in our eases Hazel M. Headaches Headaches of pathological
liars, Stemmermann on Heredity Hypomania, case of Hysteria, case of

Illtreatment, false accusations of Incest, false accusation of Inez B., case of Insane, fabrications
of Insanity and criminalism, relation of Itinerancy, correlated with pathological lying

Janet B. John B. John F. John S.

Language ability, cases of special Language aptitude related to lying Libby S. Lies mixed with
delusions Literary composition in certain cases, see Language ability Lying, relation of, to
delinquency

Marie M. Memory, special features of, in certain cases Mental abnormality not typically insane,
case of Mental conflicts Mental conflicts and repressions,case material bearing on Mental discipline
in treatment Mental experiences, early Mental findings Murder, false accusation of Mythomania

Nellie M.

Pathological accusations, Bresler's classification of Pathological accusation, definition of
Pathological liars, analysis of qualities of, by Risch Pathological lying a symptom of various
disorders, Wendt on  Pathological lying, characteristics of, Delbruck on, Koppen on, Stemmermann
on, Vogt on, Wendt on, Pathological lying, definition of Pathological swindling Pelvic irritations,
related to pathological lying Periodicity Physical conditions, treatment of Physical findings
Physiologic stress, periods of Poetic creation, relation of pathological lying to Poise, remarkable
in cases of pathological lying Poisoning attempt, false accusation of Pregnancy, case of, false
accusations beginning during Prognosis, favorable in some cases Prognosis of pathological lying
Prognosis, Stemmermann on Prognosis varies with age Pseudologia phantastica Psychic contagion
Psychopathic individuals Purpose of pathological liars, Koppen on

Report, psychology of, Robert R., case of  Running away from home 

Self-mutilation, details of, in one case Sex assault, false accusations of Sex habits in special
cases, bad Sex immorality, false accusations of Sex immorality, false self-accusation of Sex
life related to pathological lying, physical side of Sex of pathological liars Sex perversions,
false accusations of Simulation of ailments in special cases Simulation vs. hysteria in one
case Social correlations  Specialized abilities  Statistics on lying among delinquents Subnormal
verbalist, case of  Swindling arising from pathological lying  Swindling in Europe, cases of,
Swindling, relation of, to pathological lying 

Testimony, Psychology of Testimony Test  Testimony Test, results on in individual cases Testimony
Test, summary of results of Thieving, etc., false accusation of Treatment, direct, of the lying
itself  Treatment given in special cases Truancy 

Verbal fluency related to pathological lying Verbalists, mentally defective

Williams, S. Wish, the morbid and fantastic, Wendt on