His family tree begins for us with his grandfather, Giovanni Colombo of Terra-Rossa, one of
the hamlets in the valley--concerning whom many human facts may be inferred, but only three
are certainly known; that he lived, begot children, and died.  Lived, first at Terra Rossa,
and afterwards upon the sea-shore at Quinto; begot children in number three--Antonio, Battestina,
and Domenico, the father of our Christopher; and died, because one of the two facts in his
history is that in the year 1444 he was not alive, being referred to in a legal document as
quondam, or, as we should say, "the late."  Of his wife, Christopher's grandmother, since she
never bought or sold or witnessed anything requiring the record of legal document, history
speaks no word; although doubtless some pleasant and picturesque old lady, or lady other than
pleasant and picturesque, had place in the experience or imagination of young Christopher.
Of the pair, old Quondam Giovanni alone survives the obliterating drift of generations, which
the shores and brown slopes of Quinto al Mare, where he sat in the sun and looked about him,
have also survived.  Doubtless old Quondam could have told us many things about Domenico, and
his over-sanguine buyings and sellings; have perhaps told us something about Christopher's
environment, and cleared up our doubts concerning his first home; but he does not.  He will
sit in the sun there at Quinto, and sip his wine, and say his Hail Marys, and watch the sails
of the feluccas leaning over the blue floor of the Mediterranean as long as you please; but
of information about son or family, not a word.  He is content to have survived, and triumphantly
twinkles his two dates at us across the night of time.  1440, alive; 1444, not alive any longer:
and so hail and farewell, Grandfather John.

Of Antonio and Battestina, the uncle and aunt of Columbus, we know next to nothing.  Uncle
Antonio inherited the estate of Terra-Rossa, Aunt Battestina was married in the valley; and
so no more of either of them; except that Antonio, who also married, had sons, cousins of Columbus,
who in after years, when he became famous, made themselves unpleasant, as poor relations will,
by recalling themselves to his remembrance and suggesting that something might be done for
them.  I have a belief, supported by no historical fact or document, that between the families
of Domenico and Antonio there was a mild cousinly feud.  I believe they did not like each other.
Domenico, as we shall see presently, was sanguine and venturesome, a great buyer and seller,
a maker of bargains in which he generally came off second best.  Antonio, who settled in Terra-Rossa,
the paternal property, doubtless looked askance at these enterprises from his vantage-ground
of a settled income; doubtless also, on the occasion of visits exchanged between the two families,
he would comment upon the unfortunate enterprises of his brother; and as the children of both
brothers grew up, they would inherit and exaggerate, as children will, this settled difference
between their respective parents.  This, of course, may be entirely untrue, but I think it
possible, and even likely; for Columbus in after life displayed a very tender regard for members
of his family, but never to our knowledge makes any reference to these cousins of his, till
they send emissaries to him in his hour of triumph. At any rate, among the influences that
surrounded him at Genoa we may reckon this uncle and aunt and their children--dim ghosts to
us, but to him real people, who walked and spoke, and blinked their eyes and moved their limbs,
like the men and women of our own time.  Less of a ghost to us, though still a very shadowy
and doubtful figure, is Domenico himself, Christopher's father.  He at least is a man in whom
we can feel a warm interest, as the one who actually begat and reared the man of our story.
We shall see him later, and chiefly in difficulties; executing deeds and leases, and striking
a great variety of legal attitudes, to the witnessing of which various members of his family
were called in.  Little enough good did they to him at the time, poor Domenico; but he was
a benefactor to posterity without knowing it, and in these grave notarial documents preserved
almost the only evidence that we have as to the early days of his illustrious son.  A kind,
sanguine man, this Domenico, who, if he failed to make a good deal of money in his various
enterprises, at least had some enjoyment of them, as the man who buys and sells and strikes
legal attitudes in every age desires and has.  He was a wool-carder by trade, but that was
not enough for him; he must buy little bits of estates here and there; must even keep a tavern,
where he and his wife could entertain the foreign sailors and hear the news of the world; where
also, although perhaps they did not guess it, a sharp pair of ears were also listening, and
a pair of round eyes gazing, and an inquisitive face set in astonishment at the strange tales
that went about.

There is one fragment of fact about this Domenico that greatly enlarges our knowledge of him.
He was a wool-weaver, as we know; he also kept a tavern, and no doubt justified the adventure
on the plea that it would bring him customers for his woollen cloth; for your buyer and seller
never lacks a reason either for his selling or buying.  Presently he is buying again; this
time, still with striking of legal attitudes, calling together of relations, and accompaniments
of crabbed Latin notarial documents, a piece of ground in the suburbs of Genoa, consisting
of scrub and undergrowth, which cannot have been of any earthly use to him.  But also, according
to the documents, there went some old wine-vats with the land.  Domenico, taking a walk after
Mass on some feast-day, sees the land and the wine-vats; thinks dimly but hopefully how old
wine-vats, if of no use to any other human creature, should at least be of use to a tavern-keeper;
hurries back, overpowers the perfunctory objections of his complaisant wife, and on the morrow
of the feast is off to the notary's office.  We may be sure the wine-vats lay and rotted there,
and furnished no monetary profit to the wool-weaving tavern-keeper; but doubtless they furnished
him a rich profit of another kind when he walked about his newly-acquired property, and explained
what he was going to do with the wine-vats.

And besides the weaving of wool and pouring of wine and buying and selling of land, there were
more human occupations, which Domenico was not the man to neglect.  He had married, about the
year 1450, one Susanna, a daughter of Giacomo of Fontana-Rossa, a silk weaver who lived in
the hamlet near to Terra-Rossa.  Domenico's father was of the more consequence of the two,
for he had, as well as his home in the valley, a house at Quinto, where he probably kept a
felucca for purposes of trade with Alexandria and the Islands.  Perhaps the young people were
married at Quinto, but if so they did not live there long, moving soon into Genoa, where Domenico
could more conveniently work at his trade.  The wool-weavers at that time lived in a quarter
outside the old city walls, between them and the outer borders of the city, which is now occupied
by the park and public gardens.  Here they had their dwellings and workshops, their schools
and institutions, receiving every protection and encouragement from the Signoria, who recognised
the importance of the wool trade and its allied industries to Genoa.  Cloth-weavers, blanket-makers,
silk-weavers, and velvet-makers all lived in this quarter, and held their houses under the
neighbouring abbey of San Stefano.  There are two houses mentioned in documents which seem
to have been in the possession of Domenico at different times.  One was in the suburbs outside
the Olive Gate; the other was farther in, by St. Andrew's Gate, and quite near to the sea.
The house outside the Olive Gate has disappeared; and it was probably here that our Christopher
first saw the light, and pleased Domenico's heart with his little cries and struggles. Neither
the day nor even the year is certainly known, but there is most reason to believe that it was
in the year 1451.  They must have moved soon afterwards to the house in the Vico Dritto di
Ponticello, No. 37, in which most of Christopher's childhood was certainly passed.  This is
a house close to St. Andrew's Gate, which gate still stands in a beautiful and ruinous condition.

From the new part of Genoa, and from the Via XX Settembre, you turn into the little Piazza
di Ponticello just opposite the church of San Stefano. In a moment you are in old Genoa, which
is to-day in appearance virtually the same as the place in which Christopher and his little
brothers and sisters made the first steps of their pilgrimage through this world.  If the Italian,
sun has been shining fiercely upon you, in the great modern thoroughfare, you will turn into
this quarter of narrow streets and high houses with grateful relief.  The past seems to meet
you there; and from the Piazza, gay with its little provision-shops and fruit stalls, you walk
up the slope of the Vico Dritto di Ponticello, leaving the sunlight behind you, and entering
the narrow street like a traveller entering a mountain gorge.

It is a very curious street this; I suppose there is no street in the world that has more character.
Genoa invented sky-scrapers long before Columbus had discovered America, or America had invented
steel frames for high building; but although many of the houses in the Vico Dritto di Ponticello
are seven and eight storeys high, the width of the street from house-wall to house-wall does
not average more than nine feet.  The street is not straight, moreover; it winds a little in
its ascent to the old city wall and St. Andrew's Gate, so that you do not even see the sky
much as you look forward and upwards.  The jutting cornices of the roofs, often beautifully
decorated, come together in a medley of angles and corners that practically roof the street
over; and only here and there do you see a triangle or a parallelogram of the vivid brilliant
blue that is the sky.  Besides being seven or eight storeys high, the houses are the narrowest
in the world; I should think that their average width on the street front is ten feet.  So
as you walk up this street where young Christopher lived you must think of it in these three
dimensions towering slices of houses, ten or twelve feet in width: a street often not more
than eight and seldom more than fifteen feet in width; and the walls of the houses themselves,
painted in every colour, green and pink and grey and white, and trellised with the inevitable
green window-shutters of the South, standing like cliffs on each side of you seven or eight
rooms high.  There being so little horizontal space for the people to live there, what little
there is is most economically used; and all across the tops of the houses, high above your
head, the cliffs are joined by wires and clothes-lines from which thousands of brightly-dyed
garments are always hanging and fluttering; higher still, where the top storeys of the houses
become merged in roof, there are little patches of garden and greenery, where geraniums and
delicious tangling creepers uphold thus high above the ground the fertile tradition of earth.
You walk slowly up the paved street.  One of its characteristics, which it shares with the
old streets of most Italian towns, is that it is only used by foot-passengers, being of course
too narrow for wheels; and it is paved across with flagstones from door to door, so that the
feet and the voices echo pleasantly in it, and make a music of their own.  Without exception
the ground floor of every house is a shop--the gayest, busiest most industrious little shops
in the world.  There are shops for provisions, where the delightful macaroni lies in its various
bins, and all kinds of frugal and nourishing foods are offered for sale.  There are shops for
clothes and dyed finery; there are shops for boots, where boots hang in festoons like onions
outside the window--I have never seen so many boot-shops at once in my life as I saw in the
streets surrounding the house of Columbus.  And every shop that is not a provision-shop or
a clothes-shop or a boot-shop, is a wine-shop--or at least you would think so, until you remember,
after you have walked through the street, what a lot of other kinds of shops you have seen
on your way.  There are shops for newspapers and tobacco, for cheap jewellery, for brushes,
for chairs and tables and articles of wood; there are shops with great stacks and piles of
crockery; there are shops for cheese and butter and milk--indeed from this one little street
in Genoa you could supply every necessary and every luxury of a humble life.

As you still go up, the street takes a slight bend; and immediately before you, you see it
spanned by the lofty crumbled arch of St. Andrew's Gate, with its two mighty towers one on
each side.  Just as you see it you are at Columbus's house.  The number is thirty-seven; it
is like any of the other houses, tall and narrow; and there is a slab built into the wall above
the first storey, on which is written this inscription:--

                      NVLLA DOMVS TITVLO DIGNIOR
                                 HEIC
                          PATERNIS IN AEDIBV
                        CHRISTOPHORVS COLVMBVS
                               PVERITIAM
                      PRIMAMQVE IVVENTAM TRANSEGIT

You stop and look at it; and presently you become conscious of a difference between it and
all the other houses.  They are all alert, busy, noisy, crowded with life in every storey,
oozing vitality from every window; but of all the narrow vertical strips that make up the houses
of the street, this strip numbered thirty-seven is empty, silent, and dead.  The shutters veil
its windows; within it is dark, empty of furniture, and inhabited only by a memory and a spirit.
It is a strange place in which to stand and to think of all that has happened since the man
of our thoughts looked forth from these windows, a common little boy. The world is very much
alive in the Vico Dritto di Ponticello; the little freshet of life that flows there flows loud
and incessant; and yet into what oceans of death and silence has it not poured since it carried
forth Christopher on its stream!  One thinks of the continent of that New World that he discovered,
and all the teeming millions of human lives that have sprung up and died down, and sprung up
again, and spread and increased there; all the ploughs that have driven into its soil, the
harvests that have ripened, the waving acres and miles of grain that have answered the call
of Spring and Autumn since first the bow of his boat grated on the shore of Guanahani.  And
yet of the two scenes this narrow shuttered house in a bye-street of Genoa is at once the more
wonderful and more credible; for it contains the elements of the other.  Walls and floors and
a roof, a place to eat and sleep in, a place to work and found a family, and give tangible
environment to a human soul--there is all human enterprise and discovery, effort, adventure,
and life in that.

