During the struggle, the Sultan Cabugatan of Maciu, seeing that his efforts to suppress the
Americans were in vain, rushed into camp, bolo in hand, in wild, frenzied excitement, determined
to slay in cold blood everybody wearing an American uniform. But his savage intentions were
brought to a speedy termination by the troops, who, on seeing him approach them, rushed towards
him and overpowered him. However, he unfortunately succeeded in seriously wounding one of the
best and bravest soldiers in the command, Private Richard G. Macbeth, of Co. "F" 27th U. S.
Infantry, whose bravery in time of danger had made him an unanimous favorite among his comrades.
Another victim of this savage Sultan was Pvt. James Nolan, Jr., of Co. "G" 27th U. S. Infantry,
who, having been detailed as a scout, had fearlessly advanced upon one of the forts in order
to secure, if possible, some information regarding their position and strength. He had reached
the outer entrance when he met a storm of bullets from within, one of them hitting him in the
right eye, inflicting a wound from which he suffered great pain.

But their sufferings were doubly avenged, for many a hitherto unconquerable Moro has fallen
upon the green and now deserted territories of the Sultan of Maciu, with the bones of his mortal
composition bleaching on the green sward, under the tropical sun of his native skies.

    "Where once in triumph on his trackless plains
    The haughty Moro Sultan loved to reign,
    With shacks proportioned to his native sky,
    Strength in his arm, and lightning in his eye,
    He roamed with uncovered feet, his sun-illumined zone.
    The dirk, the bolo, and the spear his own;
    Or lead the combat wild without a plan
    An artless savage, but a fearless man.
    But his 'sun' of triumph, has set to rise no more
    O'er the quiet waters of Lake Lanao's shores."

It is now January 1, 1903, and the Moro campaign is drawn to a successful and favorable close,
and "Old Glory" of fair "Columbia" is now unfurled to the gentle touch of the oriental zephyrs
on the hill-tops of Mindanao, for all time to come.

The Trumpeter's "Last Call" at Fort Maciu.

(By John J. Reidy.)

    Bleeding, sore, and wounded, and by my foes surrounded,
      The Trumpet once I sounded, no longer can be heard,
    For it lies dust-stained and gory, and by the dust corroding,
      Where once I blew melodious that call that cowards dread.

    No longer in the battles will I call the boys to rally
      Through dark ravines or valleys, for freedom and for right,
    For my life's blood fast is flowing, and I am left alone
      To die and to bemoan my fate at Maciu's fight.

    "Stay, Comrade, do not leave me alone upon the field
      Where the savage Moros wield their bolos and their spears,
    For I may yet survive to see Maciu's tribe--
      Like savage cowards--beat a long retreat."

    Again I see in fancy the scenes in dear old Boston,
      Where in childhood days I wondered free from care and strife;
    The unforgotten homestead, surrounded by the foliage.
      Where oft my welcomed footsteps have echoed through the night.

    My last hour is approaching: death's dismal cloud is o'er me;
      But being a true-blue soldier, I murmur not to die.
    To-morrow's sun shall find me far from the skirmish line--
      So to comrades left behind, I bid a long Good-bye.

THE 27TH INFANTRY.

It is with feelings of pride and national patriotism we have watched through many a stormy
year the steady growth and accomplishments of our immortal Army, whose splendid display of
true valor and military discipline has attracted the attention and well-deserved admiration
of all nations through the universe, whether exhibited on the expansive parade ground, under
the balmy, azure blue skies of our Western Continent, of perpetual freedom, or on the far away
"Eastern Isles," under the warm rays of the tropical sun, where many a true and stout-hearted
son of "Fair Columbia" has sacrificed his young life for his country's cause. And as we look
back to the long misty vale of tumbled years, in silent perusal and contemplation of the pages
of our nation's history, we cannot help being for the moment awestruck, as we read from those
cherished pages of the many bloody battles and more glorious victories, which have been won
at all times, adown the ages, since first the cold, haughty invader sought to enter and deprive
us of that freedom for which so many of our revered ancestors so nobly fought and died. But
although those brave warriors of olden days have all passed away, and the regiments, by whose
gallantry our "Stars and Stripes" was borne to victory, are now known to us only by name, yet
we are more than proud to be able to acknowledge to the world, that they have been supplanted
by regiments as noteworthy as ever faced in combat a mortal foe. And among them, and perhaps
the most illustrious of them all, is the gallant 27th Infantry, whose distinguished achievements
since its organization at Plattsburg, New York, and Fort McFerson, Ga., in the early part of
the year 1901, are unexcelled and unequalled by any regiment that has been ordered forth in
defence of our country and flag.

In December 1901, the 27th Regiment of U. S. Infantry was ordered from Plattsburg Barracks,
N. Y., to proceed with all haste to Manila, P. I., and thence to the Island of Mindanao, to
aid in suppressing and overthrowing the semi-civilized savages, whose defiant, inhuman, and
brutal treatment of the American soldiers was in every sense appalling.

They arrived in Manila on February 3, 1902, and after encamping there for a few days, proceeded
to the very centre of hostilities, which was at that time in the Island of Mindanao.

And since then the broad road to civilization has been opened to the hitherto savage Moro tribes,
and chiefly by the brave officers and men of the 27th Regiment.

And in conclusion we can only say that the memories of the true, loyal, and ever dauntless
heroes of this new, though historical regiment, who gave and sacrificed their lives in the
defence of, and for the glory of, their country, shall be indelibly printed on the tablets
of our memories adown the annals of time.

                                        JOHN J. REIDY.

THE 25TH BATTERY OF FIELD ARTILLERY.

Under the Army Reorganization Bill, passed in 1900, provision was made for an increase in the
number of Field Batteries, three of which were to be equipped entirely with mountain guns.
These were to be known as the 14th, 25th, and 28th Batteries of Field Artillery. Two of these
Batteries were to be organized in the Philippine Islands. These were the 14th and 25th, and
were organized by equally dividing the number of members in what was formerly known as Light
Battery "C" of the 7th Artillery.

The two Batteries were given their authorized strength of 120 men each by transferring the
additional number of men required from the Coast Artillery.

They were not organized, however, until Sept. 23, 1901. About one month later they were fully
equipped as "Mountain Batteries," and on April 1, 1902, the 25th Battery, under command of
Captain W. S. McNair, was ordered to the Island of Mindanao, where trouble with the Moros had
long been expected.

The 25th Battery of Field Artillery is equipped with four guns, which are known as the Vickers-Maxim
75 mm. quick firing mountain guns.

This calibre, 75 mm., or 2.9 inches, will be seen to be a very little less than that of the
field gun in use in our service viz., 3.2 inches, but the power of this gun is much less than
that of the field gun, for the following reasons:

It is necessary to make a carriage and gun whose parts shall all be within suitable limits
of weight for packing on mules. This limit, placed on the weight, limits the strength that
can be obtained, and also the length of the gun itself. Therefore the amount of powder used
in these guns is much less than the amount used in the field guns, and the velocity of the
shot when it leaves the gun is much less (about one-half) than it is for the field gun. The
Vickers-Maxim gun is mounted in a cradle which has on either side a cylinder of oil, through
which the gun draws a plunger in recoiling, and by this device the force of the recoil is taken
up gradually and the carriage does not run back several feet as it would otherwise do, so that
it is at once ready to load and fire again after each discharge.

The loading of the piece is very simple. The gunner grasps a lever which he pulls around to
the right, thereby bringing out the breech-block and withdrawing the empty cartridge shell
last fired. The new round is pushed into the gun, the gunner moves the lever in the opposite
direction, or to his left, and the gun is ready to fire.

When the gun is to be moved it is taken in parts for packing as follows: The gun itself, the
cradle, the trail, and the wheels and axle, each of which is a load for one mule.

The men get expert at this maneuver, and pack up the guns at command in a period of a little
less than one minute, while they unpack and set up the gun ready for action with greater speed,
the record for the 25th Battery being 20 seconds.

This gun is provided with various kinds of projectiles, the ones usually carried being shell,
shrapnel and cannister, and are known as Krupp prepared ammunition, which can be used in the
same manner as an ordinary rifle cartridge. The shrapnel for this, as well as all field guns,
is the projectile mainly depended upon, and like all field guns, the main work for them is
to fire at the personnel of the enemy.

It is a common error amongst military men and others not well versed in the use of Artillery,
to suppose that a field gun is intended for the purpose of making breaches in walls.

The fallacy of this idea can be seen at once by making an examination of the projectiles, which
will be found to contain only the quantity of powder which you could hold in the palm of your
hand. The shells contain 10 ounces, the shrapnel 3, the cannister a little more than 2. Thus
it may be readily seen that the guns used by the 25th Battery are not such destructive engines
of war after all, but to those who would doubt their effectiveness, we should simply say: "Go
and witness them in action."

Enough has been said to give the reader a correct idea of what a "Mountain Battery" is, with
the history of what is known as the 25th Battery of Field Artillery, and thereby the object
of the writer has been accomplished.

                                        JAMES EDGAR ALLEN.

"THE MOUNTAIN BATTERY."

(Dedicated to Captain W. S. McNair and command.)

    The stout-hearted warriors who have fallen in battle
      In defence of their country, its freedom to save,
    Whose memory shall live and will ne'er be forgotten
      Though long have they mouldered to dust in their graves,

    Could they but look back from their graves of cold slumber,
      Where in silence they are sleeping long ages away,
    And see their successors, brave, bold, and undaunted,
      Who have fought the proud Moros on Mindanao's plains.

    For foremost in the ranks of victorious honor,
      Are the heroes who founded the illustrious name
    Of the 25th Battery, and one may well ponder,
      On the name of its Commander, with world renown fame.

    He has led with envious credit and valor,
      Over many mountain trails, through swamp and ravines,
    That same immortal "Battery," whose presence in battle
      Made the wild Moros tremble, like cowards in fear.

    The walls of Pandapatan's impregnable fortress,
      Which withstood all assaults from invaders of old,
    Went down like the leaves in a storm.
      When "Fire!" was his order, brave and bold.

    Even famed Bayan forts were shaken,
      And crumbled to pieces, before him that day,
    When he sent the projectiles in rapid succession
      Against those giant walls, on the second of May.

    Forts Maciu and Butig, whose histories were warlike,
      By Lake Lanao's still waters defiantly did stand,
    Until this brave Commander and his khaki-clad heroes
      Blew them to fragments, all over the land.

    In history's pages his name is recorded,
      To be linked with the memory of the true and the brave,
    Who for the honor and freedom of their glorious country,
      Have fallen to slumber in numberless graves.

    Nor must we forget the brave men he commanded,
      Whose fearlessness, heroism, and unequaled might,
    Is fresh in the memory of all Dattos and Sultans,
      And the dark-colored tribesmen of Mindanao's rugged heights.

    For to them is attributed our success in battles,
      That were fought with such glory and national pride,
    In Mindanao's valleys and on forest-covered mountains,
      Where countless Moro warriors fought and died.

                                        JAMES EDGAR ALLEN.