"This is my engagement ring," she said. "It's a very precious symbol, for Quimbleton explained
to me that the amethyst is a talisman against drunkenness. I looked it up in the dictionary,
and found that he was right. As long as I wear this ring the departed spirits have no ill effect
upon me. But I sometimes wonder," she added with a sigh, "whether Virgil really loves me for
myself, or only as a kind of swinging door into the spirit world."

The car was now approaching an open belt of country. Behind them lay the dark line of pine
woods; far off, across a wide shimmer of sun and sandy fields sweetened by purple clover; and
flowering grasses, was a blue ribbon of sea. But even in this remote shelf of New Jersey the
implacable hand of Chuff was at work. From a meadow near by they saw an observation balloon
going up and the windlass unwinding its cable. A huge paraboloid breath-detector (or breathoscope)
was stationed on a low ridge. This terribly ingenious machine, which had just been invented
by the pan-antis, records the vibrations of any alcoholic breath within five miles, and indicates
on a sensitive dial the exact direction and distance of the breath. It was only too evident
that the search for Quimbleton was going forward with fierce system. In the shelter of an old
barn they heard a cork-popping machine-gun going off rapidly. This was one of the most atrocious
ruses employed by the chuffs in their search for conscientious drinkers. The gun fires no projectile,
but produces a pleasant detonation like the swift and repeated drawing of corks. Set up in
the neighborhood of any bottle-habited man, it will invariably lure him into an approach. Near
it was an ice-tinkling device, used for the same purposes of stratagem.

"Poor Virgil!" said Miss Chuff with a sigh. "I'm afraid he has had a grievous ordeal. We must
run carefully now, so as not to give him away."

Fortunately Miss Chuff's presence at the wheel, and Bleak's credentials as war correspondent,
enabled them to pass several scouting parties of chuff uhlans without suspicion. In this way
they neared the extensive grounds surrounding the Federal Home for Inebriates, Cana, N. J.
This magnificent Gothic building, already showing some signs of decay from two years of vacancy,
stands on a slight eminence among what the real estate agents call "old shade," with a fine
and carefully calculated view over one of the largest bodies of undrinkable fluid known to
man, the Atlantic Ocean.

The car turned into a narrow sandy road skirting one side of the walled park. This byway was
completely screened from outside observation by the high bulwark of the Home and by thick masses
of rhododendron shrubbery. At a bend in the road Miss Chuff halted the motor, and motioned
Bleak to descend.

"Now we will look for the persecuted patriot," she said.

Bleak took charge of the basket of food, and Miss Chuff drew a small rope ladder from a locker
under the driver's seat. This she threw deftly up to the top of the wall, hooking it upon the
iron spikes. Bleak politely ascended first, and they scaled the wall, dropping down into a
tangle of underbrush.

"I left him in here somewhere," said the girl, as they set off along a narrow path. "This was
obviously the best place to hide, as, except for Father's horse, the Home hasn't had an inmate
for two years. There was some talk of Father making this the headquarters of the Great General
Strafe in this campaign, but I don't believe they have done so yet."

"Hush!" said Bleak. "What is that I hear?"

A dull, regular, recurrent sound, a sort of rasping sigh, stole through the thickets. They
both listened in some agitation.

"Sounds a little like an airplane, with one engine missing," said Bleak.

"Can it be the sea, the surf breaking on the sand?" asked Miss Chuff.

This seemed probable, and they accepted it as such; but as they pushed on through the tangle
of saplings and bushes the sound seemed to localize itself on their left. Bleak peeped cautiously
through a leafy screen, and then beckoned the girl to his side. They looked down into a warm
sandy hollow, overgrown and sheltered by a large rhododendron with knotted branches and dry,
shiny leaves. Curled up on the sand bank, in the unconsciously pathetic posture of sheer exhaustion,
lay Quimbleton, asleep. A droning snore buzzed heavily from where he lay.

"Poor Virgil!" said Miss Chuff. "How tired he looks."

He did, indeed. The gray and silver uniform was ragged and soil-stained; his boots were white
with dust; his face was unshaved, though a razor lay beside him, and it seemed that he had
been trying to strop it on his Sam Browne belt. His pipe, filled but unlit, had fallen from
his weary fingers; beside him was an empty match-box and tragic evidence of a number of unsuccessful
attempts to get fire from a Swedish tandsticker. Crumpled under the elbow of the indomitable
idealist was a much-thumbed copy of The Bartender's Benefactor, or How to Mix 1001 Drinks,
in which he had been seeking imaginary solace when he fell asleep. Near his head ticked a pocket
alarm clock, which they found set to gong at two o'clock.

"It seems a shame to wake him," said Theodolinda. Her brown eyes liquefied and effervesced
with tenderness, until (as Bleak thought to himself) they were quite the color of brandy and
soda, without too much soda.

The sleeper stirred, and a radiant smile passed over his unconscious features--a smile of pure
and heavenly beatitude.

"Say when, Jerry," he murmured.

"He's dreaming!" cried Theodolinda. "See, his soul is far away!"

"Two years away," said Bleak enviously. "Let him go to it while we reconnoiter. I believe in
the Prevention of Cruelty to Sleep. He didn't intend to wake up just yet, you can see by the
alarm clock."

"That's a good idea," she agreed. "I'd like to find out whether we're in any immediate danger
of pursuit."

They set the basket of food beside Quimbleton, and carefully moved on through the strip of
young trees until they neared the broad lawns that surround the Home for Inebriates. Miss Chuff,
spying delicately through a leafy chink, gave a cry of alarm.

"Heavens!" she said. "The place is full of people!"

To their amazement, they saw the white banner of the Pan-Antis floating on one of the towers
of the building, and the grounds about the Home blackened with a moving throng. Though they
were too far distant to discern any details of the crowd, it was plain (from the curious to-and-fro
of the gathering, like the seething of an ant-hill) that its units were imbued with some strong
emotion. At that distance it might have been anger, or fear, or (more appropriate to the surroundings)
drink.

They hurried back to Quimbleton's hiding place, and found him already sitting up and attacking
the shrimp salad. Bleak courteously averted his eyes from the affectionate embrace of the lovers.

"Bless your heart for this grub," said Quimbleton to Bleak. "As soon as I smelt that shrimp
salad I woke up. Do you know, I haven't eaten for two days."

"Oh Virgil!" cried Theodolinda, "what does this mean--all the crowd round the Home? Mr. Bleak
and I looked up there, and the place is simply packed. You can't stay undiscovered long with
all those people around. Who are they, anyway?"

Quimbleton had to delay his reply until deglutition had mastered a bulky consignment of shrimp.
His large, resolute face, while somewhat marred by hardships, showed no trace of panic.

"I know all about it," he said. "It is the latest step on the route of all evil taken by that
fanatical person whom I shall presently call father-in-law. He is not content with arresting
people found drinking. This morning they began to seize people who THINK about drinking. Any
one who is guilty of thinking, in an affirmative way, about liquor, is to be interned in the
Federal Home for a course in mental healing."

"But how can they tell?" asked Bleak, nervously.

"I don't know," said Quimbleton. "Perhaps they have a kind of Third Degree, flash a seidel
of beer on you suddenly, and if you make an involuntary gesture of pleasure, you're convicted.
Perhaps they've invented an instrument that tells what you think about. Perhaps they just arrest
you on suspicion. At any rate all the folks who have been thinking about booze are being collected
and sent over here. I know because I've seen most of my friends arriving all morning. I suppose
they'll get me next. I don't much care as long as I've had something to eat."

"Virgil, dear," said Miss Chuff, "you MUSTN'T give up hope now, after being so brave. You know
I'll stand by you to the end--to the very dregs."

"If only I had some disguise," said Quimbleton sadly, "it wouldn't be so bad. But I must confess
that these breath detectors and other unscrupulous instruments they use have rather unnerved me."

Bleak suddenly remembered, and thrust his hand in his hip-pocket. He pulled out the hank of
white beard that had floated down from the airplane a few days before. It was much crumpled,
but intact.

"Good man!" cried Quimbleton. "My jolly old beard!" He clapped it onto his face and beamed
hopefully. "Now, if there were some way of getting rid of this tell-tale uniform--"

They discussed this problem at some length, sitting in the sheltered bowl of sand, while Quimbleton
finished his lunch. Bleak's suggestion of stitching together a sort of Robinson Crusoe suit
of rhododendron leaves did not meet Quimbleton's approval.

"No Robinson trousseau for me," he said. "I thought of pasting together the leaves of The Bartender's
Benefactor, but I'm afraid that would be rather damning. No, I don't see what to do."

"I have it!" said Theodolinda, gleefully. "I've got a sewing kit in the car--we'll unrip the
upholstery and I can stitch you up a suit in no time. At least it will be better than the C.
P. H. get-up, which would take you in front of a firing squad if it were seen."

This seemed a good idea. Bleak volunteered to escort Miss Chuff back to the car and help her
rip the covers off the cushions. This was done, and they carried back to Quimbleton's hiding
place many yards of pale lilac colored twill (or whatever it is) and a flask of iced tea. In
spite of distant sounds of warfare, the time passed pleasantly enough. Miss Chuff cut out and
stitched assiduously; Quimbleton and Bleak, under her directions, sewed on the buttons snipped
from the uniform. Birds twittered in the greenery about them, and they all felt something of
the elation of a picnic when the garments were done and Quimbleton retired to a neighboring
copse to make the change. The other two were too seriously concerned for his welfare to laugh
when they saw him.

"Splendid!" cried Bleak. "Now you can lie down in Miss Chuff's car and if any one looks in
they'll just think you're part of the furnishings."

"And I think we'd better get back to the car without delay," said Theodolinda. "I'd like to
get you out of this danger zone as soon as possible."

They hastened back to the wall, scaled it with the rope ladder--and stared in dismay. The car
had gone. They could see it far down the road, guarded by a group of Pan-Antis. A cordon of
the enemy had been thrown completely round the Home and escape was impossible. Worse still,
the treachery of Miss Chuff must have been discovered, and they trembled to think what retaliation
the Bishop might devise.

In this moment of crisis Quimbleton regained his customary hardihood. Quilted in his lilac
garments, with the white hedge of beard tossing in the breeze, he looked the dashing leader.

"There's only one thing to do," he said. "We're surrounded in this place. We must go to the
Home, make common cause with the prisoners there, and lead them in a sudden sally of escape."

CHAPTER VI

DEPARTED SPIRITS

If Bishop Chuff desired to make people stop thinking about alcohol, his plan of seizing them
and shutting them up in the grounds of the Federal Home at Cana was a quaint way of attaining
this purpose. For all the victims, who had been suddenly arrested in the course of their daily
concerns, accused (before a rum-head court martial) of harboring illicit alcoholic desires,
and driven over to Cana in crowded motor-trucks, now had very little else to brood about. In
the golden light and fragrance of a summer afternoon, here they were surrounded by all the
apparatus to restrain alcoholic excess, and not even the slightest exhilaration of spirit to
justify the depressing scene. It was annoying to see frequent notices such as: This Entrance
for Brandy-Topers; or Vodka Patients in This Ward; or Inmates Must Not Bite Off the Door-Knobs.
It seemed carrying a jest too far when these citizens, most of whom had not even smelt a drink
in two years, found themselves billeted into padded cells and confronted by rows of strait-jackets.
Moreover, the Home had lain unused for many months: it was dusty, dilapidated, and of a moldy
savor. Some of the unwilling visitors, finding that the grounds included a strip of sandy beach,
took their ordeal with reasonable philosophy. "Since we are to be slaves," they said, "at least
let's have some serf bathing." And donning (with a shudder) the rather gruesome padded bathing
suits they found in the lockers, they went off for a swim. Others, of a humorous turn, derived
a certain rudimentary amusement in studying the garden marked Reserved for Patients with Insane
Delusions, where they found a very excellent relief-model of the battleground of the Marne,
laid out by a former inmate who had imagined himself to be General Joffre. But most of them
stood about in groups, talking bitterly.

Quimbleton, therefore, found a receptive audience for his Spartacus scheme of organizing this
band of downtrodden victims into a fighting force. He gathered them into the dining-hall of
the Home and addressed them in spirited language.

"My friends" (he said), "unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, I feel it my duty to administer
a few remarks on the subject of our present situation.

"And the first thought that comes to my mind, candidly, is this, that we must give Bishop Chuff
credit for a quality we never imagined him to possess. That quality, gentlemen, is a sense
of humor. I hear some dissent; and yet it seems to me to be somewhat humorous that this gathering,
composed of men who were accustomed, in the good old days, to carry their liquor like gentlemen,
should now, when they have been cold sober for two years, be incarcerated in this humiliating
place, surrounded by the morbid relics of those weaker souls who found their grog too strong
for them.

"I say therefore that we must give Bishop Chuff credit for a sense of humor. It makes him all
the more deadly enemy. Yet I think we will have the laugh on him yet, in a manner I shall presently
describe. For the Bishop has what may be denominated a single-tract mind. He undoubtedly imagines
that we will submit tamely to this outrage. He has surrounded us with guards. He expects us
to be meek. In my experience, the meek inherit the dearth. Let us not be meek!"

There was a shout of applause, and Quimbleton's salient of horse-hair beard waved triumphantly
as he gathered strength. His burly figure in the lilac upholstering dominated the audience.
He went on:

"And what is our crime? That we have nourished, in the privacy of our own intellects, treasonable
thoughts or desires concerning alcohol! Gentlemen, it is the first principle of common law
that a man cannot be indicted for thinking a crime. There must be some overt act, some evidence
of illegal intention. Can a man be deprived of freedom for carrying concealed thoughts? If
so, we might as well abolish the human mind itself. Which Bishop Chuff and his flunkeys would
gladly do, I doubt not, for they themselves would lose nothing thereby."

Vigorous clapping greeted this sally.

"Now, gentlemen," cried Quimbleton, "though we follow a lost cause, and even though the gooseberry
and the raisin and the apple be doomed, let us see it through with gallantry! The enemy has
mobilized dreadful engines of war against us. Let us retort in kind. He has tanks in the field--let
us retort with tankards. They tell me there is a warship in the offing, to shell us into submission.
Very well: if he has gobs, let us retort with goblets. If he has deacons, let us parry him
with decanters. Chuff has put us here under the pretext of being drunk. Very well: then let
us BE drunk. Let us go down in our cups, not in our saucers. Where there's a swill, there's
a way! Let us be sot in our ways," he added, sotto voce.

Terrific uproar followed this fine outburst. Quimbleton had to calm the frenzy by gesturing
for silence.

"I hear some natural queries," he said. "Some one asks 'How?' To this I shall presently explain
'Here's how.' Bear with me a moment.

"My friends, it would be idle for us to attempt the great task before us relying merely on
ourselves. In such great crises it is necessary to call upon a Higher Power for strength and
succor. This is no mere brawl, no haphazard scuffle: it is the battle-ground--if I were jocosely
minded I might say it is the bottle-ground--of a great principle. If, gentlemen, I wished to
harrow your souls, I would ask you to hark back in memory to the fine old days when brave men
and lovely women sat down at the same table with a glass of wine, or a mug of ale, and no one
thought any the worse. I would ask you to remember the color of the wine in the goblet, how
it caught the light, how merrily it twinkled with beaded bubbles winking at the brim, as some
poet has observed. If I wanted to harrow you, gentlemen, I would recall to you little tables,
little round tables, set out under the trees on the lawn of some country inn, where the enchanting
music of harp and fiddle twangled on the summer air, where great bowls of punch chimed gently
as the lumps of ice knocked on the thin crystal. The little tables were spread tinder the trees,
and then, later on, perhaps, the customers were spread under the tables.--I would ask you to
recall the manly seidel of dark beer as you knew it, the bitter chill of it as it went down,
the simple felicity it induced in the care-burdened mind. I could quote to you poet after poet
who has nourished his song upon honest malt liquor. I need only think of Mr. Masefield, who
has put these manly words in the mouth of his pirate mate:

    Oh some are fond of Spanish wine, and some are fond of French,
    And some'll swallow tea and stuff fit only for a wench,
    But I'm for right Jamaica till I roll beneath the bench!

    Oh some are fond of fiddles and a song well sung,
    And some are all for music for to lilt upon the tongue;
    But mouths were made for tankards, and for sucking at the bung!"

This apparently artless oratory was beginning to have its effect. Loud huzzas filled the hall.
These touching words had evoked wistful memories hidden deep in every heart. Old wounds were
reopened and bled afresh.

Again Quimbleton had to call for silence.

"I will recite to you," he said, "a ditty that I have composed myself. It is called A Chanty
of Departed Spirits."

In a voice tremulous with emotion he began:

    The earth is grown puny and pallid,
     The earth is grown gouty and gray,
    For whiskey no longer is valid
     And wine has been voted away--
    As for beer, we no longer will swill it
     In riotous rollicking spree;
    The little hot dogs in the skillet
     Will have to be sluiced down with tea.

    O ales that were creamy like lather!
      O beers that were foamy like suds!
    O fizz that I loved like a father!
      O fie on the drinks that are duds!
    I sat by the doors that were slatted
      And the stuff had a surf like the sea--
    No vintage was anywhere vatted
      Too strong for ventripotent me!

    I wallowed in waves that were tidal,
      But yet I was never unmoored;
    And after the twentieth seidel
      My syllables still were assured.
    I never was forced to cut cable
      And drift upon perilous shores,
    To get home I was perfectly able,
      Erect, or at least on all fours.

    Although I was often some swiller,
      I never was fuddled or blowsed;
    My hand was still firm on the tiller,
      No matter how deep I caroused;
    But now they have put an embargo
      On jazz-juice that tingles the spine,

    We can't even cozen a cargo
      Of harmless old gooseberry wine!

    But no legislation can daunt us:
      The drinks that we knew never die:
    Their spirits will come back to haunt us
      And whimper and hover near by.
    The spookists insist that communion
      Exists with the souls that we lose--
    And so we may count on reunion
      With all that's immortal of Booze.

    Those spirits we loved have departed
      To some psychical twentieth plane;
    But still we will not be downhearted,
      We'll soon greet our loved ones again--
    To lighten our drouth and our tedium
      Whenever our moments would sag,
    We'll call in a spiritist medium
      And go on a psychical jag!

As the frenzy of cheering died away, Quimbleton's face took on the glow of simple benignance
that Bleak had first observed at the time of the julep incident in the Balloon office. The
flush of a warm, impulsive idealism over-spread his genial features. It was the face of one
who deeply loved his fellow-men.

"My friends," he said, "now I am able to say, in all sincerity, Here's How. I have great honor
in presenting to you my betrothed fiancee, Miss Theodolinda Chuff. Do not be startled by the
name, gentlemen. Miss Chuff, the daughter of our arch-enemy, is wholly in sympathy with us.
She is the possessor (happily for us) of extraordinary psychic powers. I have persuaded her
to demonstrate them for our benefit. If you will follow my instructions implicitly, you will
have the good fortune of witnessing an alcoholic seance."

Miss Chuff, very pale, but obviously glad to put her spiritual gift at the disposal of her
lover, was escorted to the platform by Bleak. The editor had been coached beforehand by Quimbleton
as to the routine of the seance.

"The first requirement," said Quimbleton to the awe-struck gathering, "is to put yourselves
in the proper frame of mind. For that purpose I will ask you all to stand up, placing one foot
on the rung of a chair. Kindly imagine yourselves standing with one foot on a brass rail. You
will then summon to mind, with all possible accuracy and vividness, the scenes of some bar-room
which was once dear to you. I will also ask you to concentrate your mental faculties upon some
beverage which was once your favorite. Please rehearse in imagination the entire ritual which
was once so familiar, from the inquiring look of the bartender down to the final clang of the
cash-register. A visualization of the old free lunch counter is also advisable. All these details
will assist the medium to trance herself."

Bleak in the meantime had carried a small table on the platform, and placed an empty glass
upon it. Miss Chuff sat down at this table, and gazed intently at the glass. Quimbleton produced
a white apron from somewhere, and tied it round his burly form. With Bleak playing the role
of customer he then went through a pantomime of serving imaginary drinks. His representation
of the now vanished type of the bartender was so admirably realistic that it brought tears
to the eyes of more than one in the gathering. The editor, with appropriate countenance and
gesture, dramatized the motions of ordering, drinking, and paying for his invisible refreshment.
His pantomime was also accurate and satisfying, evidently based upon seasoned experience. The
argument as to who should pay, the gesture conveying the generous sentiment "This one's on
me," the spinning of a coin on the bar, the raising of the elbow, the final toss that dispatched
the fluid--all these were done to the life. The audience followed suit with a will. A whispering
rustle ran through the dingy hall as each man murmured his favorite catchwords. "Give it a
name," "Set 'em up again," "Here's luck," and such archaic phrases were faintly audible. Miss
Chuff kept her gaze fastened on the empty tumbler.

Suddenly her rigid pose relaxed. She drooped forward in her chair, with her head sunk and hands
limp. Tenderly and reverently Quimbleton bent over her. Then, his face shining with triumph,
he spoke to the hushed watchers.

"She is in the trance," he said. "Gentlemen, her happy soul is in touch with the departed spirits.
What'll you have? Don't all speak at once."

Fifty-nine, in hushed voices, petitioned for a Bronx. Quimbleton turned to the unconscious girl.

"Fifty-nine devotees," he said, "ask that the spirit of the Bronx cocktail vouchsafe his presence
among us."

Miss Chuff's slender figure stiffened again. Her hand went out to the glass beside her, and
raised it to her lips. Some of the more eagerly credulous afterwards asserted that they had
seen a cloudy yellow liquid appear in the vessel, but it is not improbable that the wish was
father to the vision. At any rate, the fifty-nine suppliants experienced at that instant a
gush of sweet coolness down their throats, and the unmistakable subsequent tingle. They gazed
at each other with a wild surmise.

"How about another?" said one in a thrilling whisper.

"Take your turn," said Quimbleton. "Who's next?"

One hundred and fifty-three nominated Scotch whiskey. The order was filled without a slip.
Quimbleton's face beamed above his beard like a full-blown rose. "Magnificent!" he whispered
to Bleak, both of them having partaken in the second round. "If this keeps on we'll have a
charge of the tight brigade."

The next round was ninety-five Jack Rose cocktails, but the audience was beginning to get out
of hand. Those who had not yet been served grew restive. They saw their companions with brightened
eyes and beaming faces, comparing notes as to this delicious revival of old sensations. In
the impatience of some and the jubilation of others, the psychic concentration flagged a little.
Then, just as Quimbleton was about to ask for the fourth round, the unforgiveable happened.
Some one at the back shouted, "A glass of buttermilk!"

Miss Chuff shuddered, quivered, and opened her eyes with a tragic gasp. She slipped from the
chair, and fell exhausted to the floor. Bleak ran to pick her up. Quimbleton screamed out an oath.

"The spell is broken!" he roared. "There's a spy in the room!"

At that instant a battalion of armed chuffs burst into the hall. They carried a huge hose,
and in ten seconds a six-inch stream of cold water was being poured upon the bewildered psychic
tipplers. Quimbleton and Bleak, seizing the girl's helpless form, escaped by a door at the
back of the platform.

"Heaven help us," cried Bleak, distraught. "What shall we do? This means the firing squad unless
we can escape."

Theodolinda feebly opened her eyes.

"O horrible," she murmured. "The spirit of buttermilk--I saw him--he threatened me--"

"The horse!" cried Quimbleton, with fierce energy. "The Bishop's horse--in the stable!"

They ran wildly to the rear quarters of the Home, where they found the Bishop's famous charger
whinneying in his stall. All three leaped upon his back. In the confusion, amid the screams
of the tortured inmates and the cruel cries of the invading chuffs, they made good their escape.

Every one of the wretched inmates captured at the psychic carouse was immediately sentenced
to six months' hard listening on the Chautauqua circuit. But even during this brutal punishment
their memories returned with tenderest reminiscence to the experience of that afternoon. As
one of them said, "it was a real treat." And although Quimbleton had plainly stated the relation
in which he stood to Theodolinda Chuff, she had no less than two hundred and ten proposals
of marriage, by mail, from those who had attended the seance.

CHAPTER VII

THE DECANTERBURY PILGRIMS

Through a dreary waste of devastated country a little group of refugees plodded in silence.
All about them lay fields and orchards which had been torn and uprooted as though by some unbelievable
whirlwind. At a watering trough along the road they halted, facing the sign:

    COMPULSORY DRINKING STATION

    Adults, 1 quart
    Children, 1 pint

    THIRST FORBIDDEN BETWEEN HERE AND THE NEXT STATION

Under the eye of an armed chuff, who watched them suspiciously, the wretched wanderers drank
the water in silence, but without enthusiasm. Then they shuffled on down the road.

At the front of the small procession a slender girl, in a much-stained sports suit, rode on
a tall black horse. Beside the horse trudged a bulky man in a grotesque garb of dirty lavender
quilting. A matted whisk of coarse beard drooped from his chin, but his blue eyes burned brightly
in his sunburnt face. Over his shoulder he carried a six foot length of brass railing, a small
folding table, and a shabby knapsack.

Behind the horse limped a lean, dyspeptic-colored individual in a Palm Beach suit that would
have been a social death-warrant on the shining sands of its name-place. There is no form of
sartorialism that takes on such utter humility as a Palm Beach suit gone wrong. This particular
vestment was spotted with ink, with mud, with fruit-juices, with every kind of stain; it was
punctured with perforations that might have been due to fallen tobacco tinder. The individual
within this travesty of clothing was painfully propelling a wheelbarrow, in which rode (not
without complaint) a substantial woman and a baby. An older child trailed from the Palm Beach
coat-tail.

These jovial vagabonds, as the reader will have suspected, were no other than Theodolinda Chuff,
Virgil Quimbleton, and the family of Bleaks.

Affairs had gone steadily from bad to worse. After the incident--or, as some blasphemously
called it, the miracle--at Cana, Bishop Chuff had commenced ruthless warfare. Enraged beyond
control by the perfidy of his daughter, he had sent out the armies of the Pan-Antis to wreak
vengeance on every human enterprise that could be suspected of complicity in the matter of
fermentation. Not only had the countryside been laid waste, but the printing press had been
abolished and all publishing trades were now a thing of the past. This, of course, had thrown
Dunraven Bleak out of a job. He had retrieved his wife and children from the seashore, and
in company with Quimbleton and Miss Chuff, and the noble and faithful horse John Barleycorn,
they had led a nomad existence for weeks, flying from bands of pursuing chuffs, and bravely
preaching their illicit gospel of good cheer in the face of terrible dangers.

The girl, who was indeed the Jeanne d'Arc of their cause, was their sole means of subsistence.
It was her psychic powers that made it possible for them, in a furtive way, to give their little
entertainments. Their method was, on reaching a village where there were no chuff troops, to
distribute certain handbills which Bleak had been able to get printed by stealth. These read thus:

