The piazza of St. Peter's church is altogether sublime. The double colonnade on each side extending
in a semi-circular sweep, the stupendous Aegyptian obelisk, the two fountains, the portico,
and the admirable facade of the church, form such an assemblage of magnificent objects, as
cannot fail to impress the mind with awe and admiration: but the church would have produced
a still greater effect, had it been detached entirely from the buildings of the Vatican, It
would then have been a master-piece of architecture, complete in all its parts, intire and
perfect: whereas, at present, it is no more than a beautiful member attached to a vast undigested
and irregular pile of building. As to the architecture of this famous temple, I shall say nothing;
neither do I pretend to describe the internal ornaments. The great picture of Mosaic work,
and that of St. Peter's bark tossed by the tempest, which appear over the gate of the church,
though rude in comparison with modern pieces, are nevertheless great curiosities, when considered
as the work of Giotto, who flourished in the beginning of the fourteenth century. His master
was Cimabue, who learned painting and architecture of the Grecian artists, who came from Constantinople,
and first revived these arts in Italy. But, to return to St. Peter's, I was not at all pleased
with the famous statue of the dead Christ in his mother's lap, by Michael Angelo. The figure
of Christ is as much emaciated, as if he had died of a consumption: besides, there is something
indelicate, not to say indecent, in the attitude and design of a man's body, stark naked, lying
upon the knees of a woman. Here are some good pictures, I should rather say copies of good
pictures, done in Mosaic to great perfection; particularly a St. Sebastian by Domenichino,
and Michael the Archangel, from a painting of Guido Rheni. I am extremely fond of all this
artist's pieces. There is a tenderness and delicacy in his manner; and his figures are all
exquisitely beautiful, though his expression is often erroneous, and his attitudes are always
affected and unnatural. In this very piece the archangel has all the air of a French dancing-master;
and I have seen a Madonna by the same hand, I think it is in the Palazzo di Barberini, in which,
though the figures are enchanting, the Virgin is represented holding up the drapery of the
infant, with the ridiculous affectation of a singer on the stage of our Italian opera. The
Mosaic work, though brought to a wonderful degree of improvement, and admirably calculated
for churches, the dampness of which is pernicious to the colours of the pallet, I will not
yet compare to the productions of the pencil. The glassyness (if I may be allowed the expression)
of the surface, throws, in my opinion, a false light on some parts of the picture; and when
you approach it, the joinings of the pieces look like so many cracks on painted canvas. Besides,
this method is extremely tedious and expensive. I went to see the artists at work, in a house
that stands near the church, where I was much pleased with the ingenuity of the process; and
not a little surprized at the great number of different colours and tints, which are kept in
separate drawers, marked with numbers as far as seventeen thousand. For a single head done
in Mosaic, they asked me fifty zequines. But to return to the church. The altar of St. Peter's
choir, notwithstanding all the ornaments which have been lavished upon it, is no more than
a heap of puerile finery, better adapted to an Indian pagod, than to a temple built upon the
principles of the Greek architecture. The four colossal figures that support the chair, are
both clumsy and disproportioned. The drapery of statues, whether in brass or stone, when thrown
into large masses, appears hard and unpleasant to the eye and for that reason the antients
always imitated wet linen, which exhibiting the shape of the limbs underneath, and hanging
in a multiplicity of wet folds, gives an air of lightness, softness, and ductility to the whole.

These two statues weigh 116,257 pounds, and as they sustain nothing but a chair, are out of
all proportion, inasmuch as the supporters ought to be suitable to the things supported. Here
are four giants holding up the old wooden chair of the apostle Peter, if we may believe the
book De Identitate Cathedrae Romanae, Of the Identity of the Roman Chair. The implements of
popish superstition; such as relicks of pretended saints, ill-proportioned spires and bellfreys,
and the nauseous repetition of the figure of the cross, which is in itself a very mean and
disagreeable object, only fit for the prisons of condemned criminals, have contributed to introduce
a vitious taste into the external architecture, as well as in the internal ornaments of our
temples. All churches are built in the figure of a cross, which effectually prevents the eye
from taking in the scope of the building, either without side or within; consequently robs
the edifice of its proper effect. The palace of the Escurial in Spain is laid out in the shape
of a gridiron, because the convent was built in consequence of a vow to St. Laurence, who was
broiled like a barbecued pig. What pity it is, that the labours of painting should have been
so much employed on the shocking subjects of the martyrology.

The tribune of the great altar, consisting of four wreathed brass pillars, gilt, supporting
a canopy, is doubtless very magnificent, if not over-charged with sculpture, fluting, foliage,
festoons, and figures of boys and angels, which, with the hundred and twenty-two lamps of silver,
continually burning below, serve rather to dazzle the eyes, and kindle the devotion of the
ignorant vulgar, than to excite the admiration of a judicious observer.

There is nothing, I believe, in this famous structure, so worthy of applause, as the admirable
symmetry and proportion of its parts. Notwithstanding all the carving, gilding, basso relievos,
medallions, urns, statues, columns, and pictures with which it abounds, it does not, on the
whole, appear over-crouded with ornaments. When you first enter, your eye is filled so equally
and regularly, that nothing appears stupendous; and the church seems considerably smaller than
it really is. The statues of children, that support the founts of holy water when observed
from the door, seem to be of the natural size; but as you draw near, you perceive they are
gigantic. In the same manner, the figures of the doves, with olive branches in their beaks,
which are represented on the wall, appear to be within your reach; but as you approach them,
they recede to a considerable height, as if they had flown upwards to avoid being taken.

I was much disappointed at sight of the Pantheon, which, after all that has been said of it,
looks like a huge cockpit, open at top. The portico which Agrippa added to the building, is
undoubtedly very noble, though, in my opinion, it corresponds but ill with the simplicity of
the edifice. With all my veneration for the antients, I cannot see in what the beauty of the
rotunda consists. It is no more than a plain unpierced cylinder, or circular wall, with two
fillets and a cornice, having a vaulted roof or cupola, open in the centre. I mean the original
building, without considering the vestibule of Agrippa. Within side it has much the air of
a mausoleum. It was this appearance which, in all probability, suggested the thought to Boniface
IV. to transport hither eight and twenty cart-loads of old rotten bones, dug from different
burying-places, and then dedicate it as a church to the blessed Virgin and all the holy martyrs.
I am not one of those who think it is well lighted by the hole at the top, which is about nine
and twenty feet in diameter, although the author of the Grand Tour calls it but nine. The same
author says, there is a descent of eleven steps to go into it; that it is a hundred and forty-four
feet in heighth, and as many in breadth; that it was covered with copper, which, with the brass
nails of the portico, pope Urban VIII. took away, and converted into the four wreathed pillars
that support the canopy of the high altar in the church of St. Peter, &c. The truth is, before
the time of pope Alexander VII. the earth was so raised as to cover part of the temple, and
there was a descent of some steps into the porch: but that pontiff ordered the ground to be
pared away to the very pedestal or base of the portico, which is now even with the street,
so that there is no descent whatsoever. The height is two hundred palmi, and the breadth two
hundred and eighteen; which, reckoning fife palmi at nine inches, will bring the height to
one hundred and fifty, and the breadth to one hundred and sixty-three feet six inches. It was
not any covering of copper which pope Urban VIII. removed, but large brass beams, which supported
the roof of the portico. They weighed 186,392 pounds; and afforded metal enough not only for
the pillars in St. Peter's church, but also for several pieces of artillery that are now in
the castle of St. Angelo. What is more extraordinary, the gilding of those columns is said
to have cost forty thousand golden crowns: sure money was never worse laid out. Urban VIII.
likewise added two bellfrey towers to the rotunda; and I wonder he did not cover the central
hole with glass, as it must be very inconvenient and disagreeable to those who go to church
below, to be exposed to the rain in wet weather, which must also render it very damp and unwholesome.
I visited it several times, and each time it looked more and more gloomy and sepulchral.

The magnificence of the Romans was not so conspicuous in their temples, as in their theatres,
amphitheatres, circusses, naumachia, aqueducts, triumphal arches, porticoes, basilicae, but
especially their thermae, or bathing-places. A great number of their temples were small and
inconsiderable; not one of them was comparable either for size or magnificence, to the modern
church of St. Peter of the Vatican. The famous temple of Jupiter Capitolinus was neither half
so long, nor half so broad: it was but two hundred feet in length, and one hundred and eighty-five
in breadth; whereas the length of St. Peter's extends to six hundred and thirty-eight feet,
and the breadth to above five hundred. It is very near twice as large as the temple of Jupiter
Olympius in Greece, which was counted one of the seven wonders of the world. But I shall take
another opportunity to explain myself further on the antiquities of this city; a subject, upon
which I am disposed to be (perhaps impertinently) circumstantial. When I begin to run riot,
you should cheek me with the freedom of a friend. The most distant hint will be sufficient
to,--Dear Sir, Yours assuredly.

LETTER XXXII

NICE, March 10, 1765.

DEAR SIR,--The Colossaeum or amphitheatre built by Flavius Vespasian, is the most stupendous
work of the kind which antiquity can produce. Near one half of the external circuit still remains,
consisting of four tire of arcades, adorned with columns of four orders, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian,
and Composite. The height and extent of it may be guessed from the number of spectators it
contained, amounting to one hundred thousand; and yet, according to Fontana's mensuration,
it could not contain above thirty-four thousand persons sitting, allowing a foot and an half
for each person: for the circuit of the whole building did not exceed one thousand five hundred
and sixty feet. The amphitheatre at Verona is one thousand two hundred and ninety feet in circumference;
and that of Nismes, one thousand and eighty. The Colossaeum was built by Vespasian, who employed
thirty thousand Jewish slaves in the work; but finished and dedicated by his son Titus, who,
on the first day of its being opened, produced fifty thousand wild beasts, which were all killed
in the arena. The Romans were undoubtedly a barbarous people, who delighted in horrible spectacles.
They viewed with pleasure the dead bodies of criminals dragged through the streets, or thrown
down the Scalae Gemoniae and Tarpeian rock, for their contemplation. Their rostra were generally
adorned with the heads of some remarkable citizens, like Temple-Bar, at London. They even bore
the sight of Tully's head fixed upon that very rostrum where he had so often ravished their
ears with all the charms of eloquence, in pleading the cause of innocence and public virtue.
They took delight in seeing their fellow-creatures torn in pieces by wild beasts, in the amphitheatre.
They shouted with applause when they saw a poor dwarf or slave killed by his adversary; but
their transports were altogether extravagant, when the devoted captives were obliged to fight
in troops, till one side was entirely butchered by the other. Nero produced four hundred senators,
and six hundred of the equestrian order, as gladiators in the public arena: even the women
fought with wild beasts, as well as with each other, and drenched the amphitheatres with their
blood. Tacitus says, "Sed faeminarum illustrium, senatorumque filiorum plures per arenam faedati
sunt," "But many sons of Senators, and even Matrons of the first Rank, exposed themselves in
this vile exercise." The execrable custom of sacrificing captives or slaves at the tombs of
their masters and great men, which is still preserved among the negroes of Africa, obtained
also among the antients, Greeks as well as Romans. I could never, without horror and indignation,
read that passage in the twenty-third book of the Iliad, which describes twelve valiant Trojan
captives sacrificed by the inhuman Achilles at the tomb of his friend Patroclus.

  Dodeka men Troon megathumon uias eathlous
  Tous ama pantas pur eathiei.

  Twelve generous Trojans slaughtered in their Bloom,
  With thy lov'd Corse the Fire shall now consume.

Even Virgil makes his pious Hero sacrifice eight Italian youths to the manes of Pallas. It
is not at all clear to me, that a people is the more brave, the more they are accustomed to
bloodshed in their public entertainments. True bravery is not savage but humane. Some of this
sanguinary spirit is inherited by the inhabitants of a certain island that shall be nameless--but,
mum for that. You will naturally suppose that the Coliseo was ruined by the barbarians who
sacked the city of Rome: in effect, they robbed it of its ornaments and valuable materials;
but it was reserved for the Goths and Vandals of modern Rome, to dismantle the edifice, and
reduce it to its present ruinous condition. One part of it was demolished by pope Paul II.
that he might employ the stones of it in building the palace of St. Mark. It was afterwards
dilapidated for the same purposes, by the cardinals Riarius and Farnese, which last assumed
the tiara under the name of Paul III. Notwithstanding these injuries, there is enough standing
to convey a very sublime idea of ancient magnificence.

The Circi and Naumachia, if considered as buildings and artificial basins, are admirable; but
if examined as areae intended for horse and chariot races, and artificial seas for exhibiting
naval engagements, they seem to prove that the antient Romans were but indifferently skilled
and exercised either in horsemanship or naval armaments. The inclosure of the emperor Caracalla's
circus is still standing, and scarce affords breathing room for an English hunter. The Circus
Maximus, by far the largest in Rome, was not so long as the Mall; and I will venture to affirm,
that St. James's Park would make a much more ample and convenient scene for those diversions.
I imagine an old Roman would be very much surprised to see an English race on the course at
New-Market. The Circus Maximus was but three hundred yards in breadth. A good part of this
was taken up by the spina, or middle space, adorned with temples, statues, and two great obelisks;
as well as by the euripus, or canal, made by order of Julius Caesar, to contain crocodiles,
and other aquatic animals, which were killed occasionally. This was so large, that Heliogabalus,
having filled it with excellent wine, exhibited naval engagements in it, for the amusement
of the people. It surrounded three sides of the square, so that the whole extent of the race
did not much exceed an English mile; and when Probus was at the expence of filling the plain
of it with fir-trees to form a wood for the chace of wild beasts, I question much if this forest
was more extensive than the plantation in St. James's Park, on the south side of the canal:
now I leave you to judge what ridicule a king of England would incur by converting this part
of the park into a chace for any species of animals which are counted game in our country.

The Roman emperors seemed more disposed to elevate and surprize, than to conduct the public
diversions according to the rules of reason and propriety. One would imagine, it was with this
view they instituted their naumachia, or naval engagements, performed by half a dozen small
gallies of a side in an artificial basin of fresh water. These gallies I suppose were not so
large as common fishing-smacks, for they were moved by two, three, and four oars of a side
according to their different rates, biremes, triremes, and quadriremes. I know this is a knotty
point not yet determined; and that some antiquarians believe the Roman gallies had different
tires or decks of oars; but this is a notion very ill supported, and quite contrary to all
the figures of them that are preserved on antient coins and medals. Suetonius in the reign
of Domitian, speaking of these naumachia, says, "Edidit navales pugnas, pene justarum classium,
effosso, et circumducto juxta Tyberim lacu, atque inter maximas imbres prospectavit," "He exhibited
naval engagements of almost intire fleets, in an artificial Lake formed for the purpose hard
by the Tyber, and viewed them in the midst of excessive Rains." This artificial lake was not
larger than the piece of water in Hyde-Park; and yet the historian says, it was almost large
enough for real or intire fleets. How would a British sailor relish an advertisement that a
mock engagement between two squadrons of men of war would be exhibited on such a day in the
Serpentine river? or that the ships of the line taken from the enemy would be carried in procession
from Hyde-Park-Corner to Tower-wharf? Certain it is, Lucullus, in one of his triumphs, had
one hundred and ten ships of war (naves longas) carried through the streets of Rome. Nothing
can give a more contemptible idea of their naval power, than this testimony of their historians,
who declare that their seamen or mariners were formed by exercising small row-boats in an inclosed
pool of fresh water. Had they not the sea within a few miles of them, and the river Tyber running
through their capital! even this would have been much more proper for exercising their watermen,
than a pond of still-water, not much larger than a cold-bath. I do believe in my conscience
that half a dozen English frigates would have been able to defeat both the contending fleets
at the famous battle of Actium, which has been so much celebrated in the annals of antiquity,
as an event that decided the fate of empire.

It would employ me a whole month to describe the thermae or baths, the vast ruins of which
are still to be seen within the walls of Rome, like the remains of so many separate citadels.
The thermae Dioclesianae might be termed an august academy for the use and instruction of the
Roman people. The pinacotheca of this building was a complete musaeum of all the curiosities
of art and nature; and there were public schools for all the sciences. If I may judge by my
eye, however, the thermae Antonianae built by Caracalla, were still more extensive and magnificent;
they contained cells sufficient for two thousand three hundred persons to bathe at one time,
without being seen by one another. They were adorned with all the charms of painting, architecture,
and sculpture. The pipes for convoying the water were of silver. Many of the lavacra were of
precious marble, illuminated by lamps of chrystal. Among the statues, were found the famous
Toro, and Hercole Farnese.

Bathing was certainly necessary to health and cleanliness in a hot country like Italy, especially
before the use of linen was known: but these purposes would have been much better answered
by plunging into the Tyber, than by using the warm bath in the thermae, which became altogether
a point of luxury borrowed from the effeminate Asiatics, and tended to debilitate the fibres
already too much relaxed by the heat of the climate. True it is, they had baths of cool water
for the summer: but in general they used it milk-warm, and often perfumed: they likewise indulged
in vapour-baths, in order to enjoy a pleasing relaxation, which they likewise improved with
odoriferous ointments.

The thermae consisted of a great variety of parts and conveniences; the natationes, or swimming
places; the portici, where people amused themselves in walking, conversing, and disputing together,
as Cicero says, In porticibus deambulantes disputabant; the basilicae, where the bathers assembled,
before they entered, and after they came out of the bath; the atria, or ample courts, adorned
with noble colonnades of Numidian marble and oriental granite; the ephibia, where the young
men inured themselves to wrestling and other exercises; the frigidaria, or places kept cool
by a constant draught of air, promoted by the disposition and number of the windows; the calidaria,
where the water was warmed for the baths; the platanones, or delightful groves of sycamore;
the stadia, for the performances of the athletae; the exedrae, or resting-places, provided
with seats for those that were weary; the palestrae, where every one chose that exercise which
pleased him best; the gymnasia, where poets, orators, and philosophers recited their works,
and harangued for diversion; the eleotesia, where the fragrant oils and ointments were kept
for the use of the bathers; and the conisteria, where the wrestlers were smeared with sand
before they engaged. Of the thermae in Rome, some were mercenary, and some opened gratis. Marcus
Agrippa, when he was edile, opened one hundred and seventy private baths, for the use of the
people. In the public baths, where money was taken, each person paid a quadrans, about the
value of our halfpenny, as Juvenal observes,

  Caedere Sylvano porcum, quadrante lavari.

  The victim Pig to God Sylvanus slay,
  And for the public Bath a farthing pay.

But after the hour of bathing was past, it sometimes cost a great deal more, according to Martial,

  Balnea post decimam, lasso centumque petuntur
  Quadrantes--

  The bathing hour is past, the waiter tir'd;
  An hundred Farthings now will be requir'd.

Though there was no distinction in the places between the first patrician and the lowest plebeian,
yet the nobility used their own silver and gold plate, for washing, eating, and drinking in
the bath, together with towels of the finest linen. They likewise made use of the instrument
called strigil, which was a kind of flesh-brush; a custom to which Persius alludes in this line,

  I puer, et strigiles Crispini ad balnea defer.

  Here, Boy, this Brush to Crispin's Bagnio bear.

The common people contented themselves with sponges. The bathing time was from noon till the
evening, when the Romans ate their principal meal. Notice was given by a bell, or some such
instrument, when the baths were opened, as we learn from Juvenal,

  Redde Pilam, sonat Aes thermarum, ludere pergis?
  Virgine vis sola lotus abdire domum.

  Leave off; the Bath Bell rings--what, still play on?
  Perhaps the maid in private rubs you down.

There were separate places for the two sexes; and indeed there were baths opened for the use
of women only, at the expence of Agrippina, the mother of Nero, and some other matrons of the
first quality. The use of bathing was become so habitual to the constitutions of the Romans,
that Galen, in his book De Sanitate tuenda, mentions a certain philosopher, who, if he intermitted
but one day in his bathing, was certainly attacked with a fever. In order to preserve decorum
in the baths, a set of laws and regulations were published, and the thermae were put under
the inspection of a censor, who was generally one of the first senators in Rome. Agrippa left
his gardens and baths, which stood near the pantheon, to the Roman people: among the statues
that adorned them was that of a youth naked, as going into the bath, so elegantly formed by
the hand of Lysippus, that Tiberius, being struck with the beauty of it, ordered it to be transferred
into his own palace: but the populace raised such a clamour against him, that he was fain to
have it reconveyed to its former place. These noble baths were restored by Adrian, as we read
in Spartian; but at present no part of them remains.

With respect to the present state of the old aqueducts, I can give you very little satisfaction.
I only saw the ruins of that which conveyed the aqua Claudia, near the Porta Maggiore, and
the Piazza of the Lateran. You know there were fourteen of those antient aqueducts, some of
which brought water to Rome from the distance of forty miles. The channels of them were large
enough to admit a man armed on horseback; and therefore when Rome was besieged by the Goths,
who had cut off the water, Belisarius fortified them with works to prevent the enemy from entering
the city by those conveyances. After that period, I suppose the antient aqueducts continued
dry, and were suffered to run to ruins. Without all doubt, the Romans were greatly obliged
to those benefactors, who raised such stupendous works for the benefit, as well as the embellishment
of their city: but it might have been supplied with the same water through pipes at one hundredth
part of the expence; and in that case the enemy would not have found it such an easy matter
to cut it off. Those popes who have provided the modern city so plentifully with excellent
water, are much to be commended for the care and expence, they have bestowed in restoring the
streams called acqua Virgine, acqua Felice, and acqua Paolina, which afford such abundance
of water as would plentifully supply a much larger city than modern Rome.

It is no wonder that M. Agrippa, the son-in-law, friend, and favourite of Augustus, should
at the same time have been the idol of the people, considering how surprisingly he exerted
himself for the emolument, convenience, and pleasure of his fellow-citizens. It was he who
first conducted this acqua Virgine to Rome: he formed seven hundred reservoirs in the city;
erected one hundred and five fountains; one hundred and thirty castella, or conduits, which
works he adorned with three hundred statues, and four hundred pillars of marble, in the space
of one year. He also brought into Rome, the aqua Julia, and restored the aqueduct of the aqua
Marzia, which had fallen to decay. I have already observed the great number of baths which
he opened for the people, and the magnificent thermae, with spacious gardens, which he bequeathed
to them as a legacy. But these benefactions, great and munificent as they seem to be, were
not the most important services he performed for the city of Rome. The common-sewers were first
made by order of Tarquinius Priscus, not so much with a view to cleanliness, as by way of subterranean
drains to the Velabrum, and in order to carry off the stagnant water, which remained in the
lower parts, after heavy rains. The different branches of these channels united at the Forum,
from whence by the cloaca Maxima, their contents were conveyed into the Tyber. This great cloaca
was the work of Tarquinius Superbus. Other sewers were added by Marcus Cato, and Valerius Flaccus,
the censors. All these drains having been choaked up and ruinous, were cleared and restored
by Marcus Agrippa, who likewise undermined the whole city with canals of the same kind, for
carrying of the filth; he strengthened and enlarged the cloaca maxima, so as to make it capable
of receiving a large cart loaded with hay; and directed seven streams of water into these subterranean
passages, in order to keep them always clean and open. If, notwithstanding all these conveniences,
Vespasian was put to great expence in removing the ordure from the public streets, we have
certainly a right to conclude that the antient Romans were not more cleanly than the modern
Italians.

After the mausolea of Augustus, and Adrian, which I have already mentioned, the most remarkable
antient sepulchres at Rome, are those of Caius Cestius, and Cecilia Metella. The first, which
stands by the Porta di S. Paolo, is a beautiful pyramid, one hundred and twenty feet high,
still preserved intire, having a vaulted chamber within-side, adorned with some ancient painting,
which is now almost effaced. The building is of brick, but eased with marble. This Caius Cestius
had been consul, was very rich, and acted as one of the seven Epulones, who superintended the
feasts of the gods, called Lectisternia, and Pervigilia. He bequeathed his whole fortune to
his friend M. Agrippa, who was so generous as to give it up to the relations of the testator.
The monument of Cecilia Metella, commonly called Capo di Bove, is without the walls on the
Via Appia. This lady was daughter of Metellus Creticus, and wife to Crassus, who erected this
noble monument to her memory. It consisted of two orders, or stories, the first of which was
a square of hewn stone: the second was a circular tower, having a cornice, adorned with ox
heads in basso relievo, a circumstance from which it takes the name of Capo di Bove. The ox
was supposed to be a most grateful sacrifice to the gods. Pliny, speaking of bulls and oxen, says,

  Hinc victimae optimae et laudatissima deorum placatio.

They were accounted the best Victims and most agreeable to appease the anger of the Gods.

This tower was surmounted by a noble cupola or dome, enriched with all the ornaments of architecture.
The door of the building was of brass; and within-side the ashes of Cecilia were deposited
in a fluted marble urn, of curious workmanship, which is still kept in the Palazzo Farnese.
At present the surface of the ground is raised so much as to cover the first order of the edifice:
what we see is no more than the round tower, without the dome and its ornaments; and the following
inscription still remains near the top, facing the Via Appia.

  CAECILLAE
  Q. CRETICI F.
  METELLAE
  CRASSI.

To Caecilia Metella, Daughter of Q. Criticus: wife of Crassus.

Now we are talking of sepulchral inscriptions, I shall conclude this letter with the copy of
a very singular will, made by Favonius Jocundus, who died in Portugal, by which will the precise
situation of the famous temple of Sylvanus is ascertained.

"Jocundi. Ego gallus Favonius Jocundus P. Favoni F. qui bello contra Viriatum Succubui, Jocundum
et Prudentem filios, e me et Quintia Fabia conjuge mea ortos, et Bonorum Jocundi Patris mei,
et eorum, quae mihi ipsi acquisivi haeredes relinquo; hac tamen conditione, ut ab urbe Romana
huc veniant, et ossa hic mea, intra quinquennium exportent, et via latina condant in sepulchro,
jussu meo condito, et mea voluntate; in quo velim neminem mecum, neque servum, neque libertum
inseri; et velim ossa quorumcunque sepulchro statim meo eruantur, et jura Romanorum serventur,
in sepulchris ritu majorum retinendis, juxta volantatem testatoris; et si secus fecerint, nisi
legittimae oriantur causae, velim ea omnia, quae filijs meis relinquo, pro reparando templo
dei Sylvani, quod sub viminali monte est, attribui; manesque mei a Pont. max; a flaminibus
dialibus, qui in capitolio sunt, opem implorent, ad liberorum meorum impietatem ulciscendam;
teneanturque sacerdotes dei Silvani, me in urbem referre, et sepulchro me meo condere. Volo
quoque vernas qui domi meae sunt, omnes a praetore urbano liberos, cum matribus dimitti, singulisque
libram argenti puri, et vestem unam dori. In Lusitania. In agro VIII. Cal Quintilis, bello
viriatino."

I, Gallus Favonius Jocundus, son of P. Favonius, dying in the war against Viriatus, declare
my sons Jocundus and Prudens, by my wife Quintia Fabia, joint Heirs of my Estate, real and
personal; on condition, however, that they come hither within a time of five years from this
my last will, and transport my remains to Rome to be deposited in my Sepulchre built in the
via latina by my own order and Direction: and it is my will that neither slave nor freedman
shall be interred with me in the said tomb; that if any such there be, they shall be removed,
and the Roman law obeyed, in preserving in the antient Form the sepulchre according to the
will of the Testator. If they act otherwise without just cause, it is my will that the whole
estate, which I now bequeathe to my children, shall be applied to the Reparation of the Temple
of the God Sylvanus, at the foot of Mount Viminalis; and that my Manes [The Manes were an order
of Gods supposed to take cognisance of such injuries.] I shall implore the assistance of the
Pontifex maximus, and the Flaminisdiales in the Capitol, to avenge the Impiety of my children;
and the priests of Sylvanus shall engage to bring my remains to Rome and see them decently
deposited in my own Sepulchre. It is also my will that all my domestic slaves shall be declared
free by the city Praetor, and dismissed with their mothers, after having received each, a suit
of cloaths, and a pound weight of pure silver from my heirs and Executors.--At my farm in Lusitania,
July 25. During the Viriatin war.

My paper scarce affords room to assure you that I am ever,--Dear Sir, Your faithful, etc.

LETTER XXXIII

NICE, March 30, 1765.

DEAR SIR,--YOU must not imagine I saw one half of the valuable pictures and statues of Rome;
there is such a vast number of both in this capital, that I might have spent a whole year in
taking even a transient view of them; and, after all, some of them would have been overlooked.
The most celebrated pieces, however, I have seen; and therefore my curiosity is satisfied.
Perhaps, if I had the nice discernment and delicate sensibility of a true connoisseur, this
superficial glimpse would have served only to whet my appetite, and to detain me the whole
winter at Rome. In my progress through the Vatican, I was much pleased with the School of Athens,
by Raphael, a piece which hath suffered from the dampness of the air. The four boys attending
to the demonstration of the mathematician are admirably varied in the expression. Mr. Webb's
criticism on this artist is certainly just. He was perhaps the best ethic painter that ever
the world produced. No man ever expressed the sentiments so happily, in visage, attitude, and
gesture: but he seems to have had too much phlegm to strike off the grand passions, or reach
the sublime parts of painting. He has the serenity of Virgil, but wants the fire of Homer.
There is nothing in his Parnassus which struck me, but the ludicrous impropriety of Apollo's
playing upon a fiddle, for the entertainment of the nine muses. [Upon better information I
must retract this censure; in as much, as I find there was really a Musical Instrument among
the antients of this Figure, as appears by a small statue in Bronze, to be still seen in the
Florentine Collection.]

The Last Judgment, by Buonaroti, in the chapel of Sixtus IV. produced to my eye the same sort
of confusion, that perplexes my ear at a grand concert, consisting of a great variety of instruments:
or rather, when a number of people are talking all at once. I was pleased with the strength
of expression, exhibited in single figures, and separate groupes: but, the whole together is
a mere mob, without subordination, keeping, or repose. A painter ought to avoid all subjects
that require a multiplicity of groupes and figures; because it is not in the power of that
art to unite a great number in one point of view, so as to maintain that dependence which they
ought to have upon one another. Michael Angelo, with all his skill in anatomy, his correctness
of design, his grand composition, his fire, and force of expression, seems to have had very
little idea of grace. One would imagine he had chosen his kings, heroes, cardinals, and prelates,
from among the facchini of Rome: that he really drew his Jesus on the Cross, from the agonies
of some vulgar assassin expiring on the wheel; and that the originals of his Bambini, with
their mothers, were literally found in a stable. In the Sala Regia, from whence the Sistian
chapel is detached, we see, among other exploits of catholic heroes, a representation of the
massacre of the protestants in Paris, Tholouse, and other parts of France, on the eve of St.
Bartholomew, thus described in the Descrizione di Roma, "Nella prima pittura, esprime Georgio
Vasari l'istoria del Coligni, grand' amiraglio, di Francia, che come capo de ribelli, e degl'ugonotti,
fu ucciso; e nell'altra vicina, la strage fatta in Parigi, e nel regno, de rebelli, e degl'Ugonotti."
"In the first picture, George Vasari represents the history of Coligni, high admiral of France,
who was slain as head of the rebels and huegonots; and in another near it, the slaughter that
was made of the rebels and huegonots in Paris and other parts of the kingdom." Thus the court
of Rome hath employed their artists to celebrate and perpetuate, as a meritorious action, the
most perfidious, cruel, and infamous massacre, that ever disgraced the annals of any nation.

I need not mention the two equestrian statues of Constantine the Great, and Charlemagne, which
stand at opposite ends of the great portico of St. Peter's church; because there is nothing
in them which particularly engaged my attention. The sleeping Cleopatra, as you enter the court
of the Belvedere, in the Vatican, is much admired; but I was better pleased with the Apollo,
which I take to be the most beautiful statue that ever was formed. The Nile, which lies in
the open court, surmounted with the little children, has infinite merit; but is much damaged,
and altogether neglected. Whether it is the same described in Pliny, as having been placed
by Vespasian in the Temple of Peace, I do not know. The sixteen children playing about it,
denoted the swelling of the Nile, which never rose above sixteen cubits. As for the famous
groupe of Laocoon, it surpassed my expectation. It was not without reason that Buonaroti called
it a portentous work; and Pliny has done it no more than justice in saying it is the most excellent
piece that ever was cut in marble; and yet the famous Fulvius Ursini is of opinion that this
is not the same statue which Pliny described. His reasons, mentioned by Montfaucon, are these.
The statues described by Pliny were of one stone; but these are not. Antonioli, the antiquary,
has in his Possession, pieces of Laocoon's snakes, which were found in the ground, where the
baths of Titus actually stood, agreeable to Pliny, who says these statues were placed in the
buildings of Titus. Be that as it may, the work which we now see does honour to antiquity.
As you have seen innumerable copies and casts of it, in marble, plaister, copper, lead, drawings,
and prints, and read the description of it in Keysler, and twenty other books of travels, I
shall say nothing more on the subject; but that neither they nor I, nor any other person, could
say too much in its praise. It is not of one piece indeed. In that particular Pliny himself
might be mistaken. "Opus omnibus et picturae, et statuariae artis praeponendum. Ex uno lapide
eum et Liberos draconumque mirabiles nexus de consilii sententia fecere succubi artifices."
"A work preferable to all the other Efforts of Painting and Statuary. The most excellent artists
joined their Talents in making the Father and his Sons, together with the admirable Twinings
of the Serpents, of one Block." Buonaroti discovered the joinings, though they were so artfully
concealed as to be before invisible. This amazing groupe is the work of three Rhodian sculptors,
called Agesander, Polydore, and Athenodorus, and was found in the thermae of Titus Vespasian,
still supposing it to be the true antique. As for the torso, or mutilated trunk of a statue,
which is called the school of Michael Angelo, I had not time to consider it attentively; nor
taste enough to perceive its beauties at first sight. The famous horses on Monte Cavallo, before
the pope's palace, which are said to have been made in emulation, by Phidias and Praxiteles,
I have seen, and likewise those in the front of the Capitol, with the statues of Castor and
Pollux; but what pleased me infinitely more than all of them together, is the equestrian statue
of Corinthian brass, standing in the middle of this Piazza (I mean at the Capitol) said to
represent the emperor Marcus Aurelius. Others suppose it was intended for Lucius Verus; a third
set of antiquaries contend for Lucius Septimius Severus; and a fourth, for Constantine, because
it stood in the Piazza of the Lateran palace, built by that emperor, from whence pope Paul
III. caused it to be removed to the Capitol. I considered the trophy of Marius as a very curious
piece of sculpture, and admired the two sphinxes at the bottom of the stairs leading to this
Piazza, as the only good specimens of design I have ever seen from Aegypt: for the two idols
of that country, which stand in the ground floor of the Musaeum of the Capitol, and indeed
all the Aegyptian statues in the Camera Aegyptiaca of this very building, are such monstrous
misrepresentations of nature, that they never could have obtained a place among the statues
of Rome, except as curiosities of foreign superstition, or on account of the materials, as
they are generally of basaltes, porphyry, or oriental granite.

At the farther end of the court of this Musaeum, fronting the entrance, is a handsome fountain,
with the statue of a river-god reclining on his urn; this is no other than the famous Marforio,
so called from its having been found in Martis Fore. It is remarkable only as being the conveyance
of the answers to the satires which are found pasted upon Pasquin, another mutilated statue,
standing at the corner of a street.

The marble coffin, supposed to have contained the ashes of Alexander Severus, which we find
in one of these apartments, is a curious antique, valuable for its sculpture in basso relievo,
especially for the figures on the cover, representilig that emperor and his mother Julia Mammea.

I was sorry I had not time to consider the antient plan of Rome, disposed in six classes, on
the stair-case of this Musaeum, which was brought hither from a temple that stood in the Forum
Boarium, now called Campo vaccine.

It would be ridiculous in me to enter into a detail of the vast collection of marbles, basso
relievos, inscriptions, urns, busts, and statues, which are placed in the upper apartments
of this edifice. I saw them but once, and then I was struck with the following particulars.
A bacchanalian drunk; a Jupiter and Leda, at least equal to that in the gallery at Florence;
an old praesica, or hired mourner, very much resembling those wrinkled hags still employed
in Ireland, and in the Highlands of Scotland, to sing the coronach at funerals, in praise of
the deceased; the famous Antinous, an elegant figure, which Pousin studied as canon or rule
of symmetry; the two fauns; and above all the mirmillone, or dying gladiator; the attitude
of the body, the expression of the countenance, the elegance of the limbs, and the swelling
of the muscles, in this statue, are universally admired; but the execution of the back is incredibly
delicate. The course of the muscles called longissimi dorsi, are so naturally marked and tenderly
executed, that the marble actually emulates the softness of the flesh; and you may count all
the spines of the vertebrae, raising up the skin as in the living body; yet this statue, with
all its merit, seems inferior to the celebrated dying gladiator of Ctesilas, as described by
Pliny, who says the expression of it was such, as appears altogether incredible. In the court,
on the opposite side of the Capitol, there is an admirable statue of a lion devouring an horse,
which was found by the gate of Ostia, near the pyramid of Caius Cestius; and here on the left
hand, under a colonade, is what they call the Columna Rostrata, erected in honour of Caius
Duilius, who first triumphed over the Carthaginians by sea. But this is a modern pillar, with
the old inscription, which is so defaced as not to be legible. Among the pictures in the gallery
and saloon above, what pleased me most was the Bacchus and Ariadne of Guido Rheni; and the
wolf suckling Romulus and Remus, by Rubens. The court of the Palazzo Farnese is surrounded
with antique statues, among which the most celebrated are, the Flora, with a most delicate
drapery; the gladiator, with a dead boy over his shoulder; the Hercules, with the spoils of
the Nemean lion, but that which the connoisseurs justly esteem above all the rest is Hercules,
by Glycon, which you know as well as I do, by the great reputation it has acquired. This admirable
statue having been found without the legs, these were supplied by Gulielmo de la Porta so happily,
that when afterwards the original limbs were discovered, Michael Angelo preferred those of
the modern artist, both in grace and proportion; and they have been retained accordingly. In
a little house, or shed, behind the court, is preserved the wonderful group of Dirce, commonly
called the Toro Farnese, which was brought hither from the thermae Caracallae. There is such
spirit, ferocity, and indignant resistance expressed in the bull, to whose horns Dirce is tied
by the hair, that I have never seen anything like it, either upon canvass, or in stone. The
statues of the two brothers endeavouring to throw him into the sea are beautiful figures, finely
contrasted; and the rope, which one of them holds in a sort of loose coil, is so surprisingly
chizzelled, that one can hardly believe it is of stone. As for Dirce herself, she seems to
be but a subaltern character; there is a dog upon his hind legs barking at the bull, which
is much admired. This amazing groupe was cut out of one stone, by Appollonius and Tauriscus,
two sculptors of Rhodes; and is mentioned by Pliny in the thirty-sixth book of his Natural
History. All the precious monuments of art, which have come down to us from antiquity, are
the productions of Greek artists. The Romans had taste enough to admire the arts of Greece,
as plainly appears by the great collections they made of their statues and pictures, as well
as by adopting their architecture and musick: but I do not remember to have read of any Roman
who made a great figure either as a painter or a statuary. It is not enough to say those professions
were not honourable in Rome, because painting, sculpture, and musick, even rhetoric, physic,
and philosophy were practised and taught by slaves. The arts were always honoured and revered
at Rome, even when the professors of them happened to be slaves by the accidents and iniquity
of fortune. The business of painting and statuary was so profitable, that in a free republic,
like that of Rome, they must have been greedily embraced by a great number of individuals:
but, in all probability, the Roman soil produced no extraordinary genius for those arts. Like
the English of this day, they made a figure in poetry, history, and ethics; but the excellence
of painting, sculpture, architecture, and music, they never could attain. In the Palazzo Picchini
I saw three beautiful figures, the celebrated statues of Meleager, the boar, and dog; together
with a wolf, of excellent workmanship. The celebrated statue of Moses, by Michael Angelo, in
the church of St. Peter in Vincula, I beheld with pleasure; as well as that of Christ, by the
same hand, in the Church of S. Maria sopra Minerva. The right foot, covered with bronze, gilt,
is much kissed by the devotees. I suppose it is looked upon as a specific for the toothache;
for, I saw a cavalier, in years, and an old woman successively rub their gums upon it, with
the appearance of the most painful perseverance. In the church of St. Luke, I was not at all
struck by the picture of that saint, drawing the portrait of the Virgin Mary, although it is
admired as one of the best pieces of Raphael. Indeed it made so little impression upon me,
that I do not even remember the disposition of the figures. The altar-piece, by Andrea Sacchi,
in the church of St. Romauldus, would have more merit, if the figure of the saint himself had
more consequence, and was represented in a stronger light. In the Palazzo Borghese, I chiefly
admired the following pieces: a Venus with two nymphs; and another with Cupid, both by Titian:
an excellent Roman Piety, by Leonardo da Vinci; and the celebrated Muse, by Dominechino, which
is a fine, jolly, buxom figure. At the palace of Colorina Connestabile, I was charmed with
the Herodias, by Guido Rheni; a young Christ; and a Madonna, by Raphael; and four landscapes,
two by Claude Lorraine, and the other two, by Salvator Rosa. In the palazetto, or summerhouse
belonging to the Palazzo Rospigliosi, I had the satisfaction of contemplating the Aurora of
Guido, the colours of which still remain in high perfection, notwithstanding the common report
that the piece is spoiled by the dampness of the apartment. The print of this picture, by Freij,
with all its merit, conveys but an imperfect idea of the beauty of the original. In the Palazzo
Barberini, there is a great collection of marbles and pictures: among the first, I was attracted
by a beautiful statue of Venus; a sleeping faun, of curious workmanship; a charming Bacchus,
lying on an antient sculpture, and the famous Narcissus. Of the pictures, what gave me most
pleasure was the Magdalen of Guido, infinitely superior to that by Le Brun in the church of
the Carmelites at Paris; the Virgin, by Titian; a Madonna, by Raphael, but not comparable to
that which is in the Palazzo de Pitti, at Florence; and the death of Germanicus, by Poussin,
which I take to be one of the best pieces in this great collection. In the Palazzo Falconeri
there is a beautiful St. Cecilia, by Guercino; a holy family, by Raphael; and a fine expressive
figure of St. Peter weeping, by Dominechino. In the same palace, I saw the famous holy family,
by Corregio, which he left unfinished, and no other artist would undertake to supply; for what
reason I know not. Here too is a judgment of Paris, by Titian, which is reckoned a very valuable
piece. In the Palazzo Odescalchi, there is a holy family, by Buonaroti, and another by Raphael,
both counted excellent, though in very different stiles, extremely characteristic of those
two great rival artists.

If I was silly enough to make a parade, I might mention some hundreds more of marbles and pictures,
which I really saw at Rome; and even eke out that number with a huge list of those I did not
see: but whatever vanity I may have, it has not taken this turn; and I assure you, upon my
word and honour, I have described nothing but what actually fell under my own observation.
As for my critical remarks, I am afraid you will think them too superficial and capricious
to belong to any other person but--Your humble servant.

LETTER XXXIV

NICE, April 2, 1765.

DEAR SIR,--I have nothing to communicate touching the library of the Vatican, which, with respect
to the apartments and their ornaments, is undoubtedly magnificent. The number of books it contains
does not exceed forty thousand volumes, which are all concealed from the view, and locked up
in presses: as for the manuscripts, I saw none but such as are commonly presented to strangers
of our nation; some very old copies of Virgil and Terence; two or three Missals, curiously
illuminated; the book De Septem Sacramentis, written in Latin by Henry VIII. against Luther;
and some of that prince's love letters to Anne Boleyn. I likewise visited the Libreria Casanatense,
belonging to the convent of the church called S. Maria Sopra Minerva. I had a recommendation
to the principal librarian, a Dominican friar, who received me very politely, and regaled me
with a sight of several curious MSS. of the classics.

Having satisfied my curiosity at Rome, I prepared for my departure, and as the road between
Radicofani and Montefiascone is very stony and disagreeable, I asked the banker Barazzi, if
there was not a better way of returning to Florence, expressing a desire at the same time to
see the cascade of Terni. He assured me that the road by Terni was forty miles shorter than
the other, much more safe and easy, and accommodated with exceeding good auberges. Had I taken
the trouble to cast my eyes upon the map, I must have seen, that the road by Terni, instead
of being forty miles shorter, was much longer than the other: but this was not the only mistake
of Signiore Barazzi. Great part of this way lies over steep mountains, or along the side of
precipices, which render travelling in a carriage exceeding tedious, dreadful, and dangerous;
and as for the public houses, they are in all respects the most execrable that ever I entered.
I will venture to say that a common prisoner in the Marshalsea or King's-Bench is more cleanly
and commodiously lodged than we were in many places on this road. The houses are abominably
nasty, and generally destitute of provision: when eatables were found, we were almost poisoned
by their cookery: their beds were without curtains or bedstead, and their windows without glass;
and for this sort of entertainment we payed as much as if we had been genteelly lodged, and
sumptuously treated. I repeat it again; of all the people I ever knew, the Italians are the
most villainously rapacious. The first day, having passed Civita Castellana, a small town standing
on the top of a hill, we put up at what was called an excellent inn, where cardinals, prelates,
and princes, often lodged. Being meagre day, there was nothing but bread, eggs, and anchovies,
in the house. I went to bed without supper, and lay in a pallet, where I was half devoured
by vermin. Next day, our road, in some places, lay along precipices, which over-hang the Nera
or Nar, celebrated in antiquity for its white foam, and the sulphureous quality of its waters.

  Sulfurea nar albus aqua, fontesque velini.

  Sulphureous nar, and the Velinian streams.

It is a small, but rapid stream, which runs not far from hence, into the Tyber. Passing Utricoli,
near the ruins of the ancient Ocriculum, and the romantic town of Narni, situated on the top
of a mountain, in the neighbourhood of which is still seen standing one arch of the stupendous
bridge built by Augustus Caesar, we arrived at Terni, and hiring a couple of chaises before
dinner, went to see the famous Cascata delle Marmore, which is at the distance of three miles.
We ascended a steep mountain by a narrow road formed for a considerable way along the brink
of a precipice, at the bottom of which brawls the furious river Nera, after having received
the Velino. This last is the stream which, running from the Lago delle Marmore, forms the cascade
by falling over a precipice about one hundred and sixty feet high. Such a body of water rushing
down the mountain; the smoak, vapour, and thick white mist which it raises; the double rainbow
which these particles continually exhibit while the sun shines; the deafening sound of the
cataract; the vicinity of a great number of other stupendous rocks and precipices, with the
dashing, boiling, and foaming of the two rivers below, produce altogether an object of tremendous
sublimity: yet great part of its effect is lost, for want of a proper point of view, from which
it might be contemplated. The cascade would appear much more astonishing, were it not in some
measure eclipsed by the superior height of the neighbouring mountains. You have not a front
perspective; but are obliged to view it obliquely on one side, standing upon the brink of a
precipice, which cannot be approached without horror. This station might be rendered much more
accessible, and altogether secure, for the expence of four or five zequines; and a small tax
might be levied for the purpose from travellers by the aubergiste at Terni, who lets his calasses
for half a zequine a piece to those that are curious to see this phaenomenon. Besides the two
postilions whom I payed for this excursion, at the rate of one stage in posting, there was
a fellow who posted himself behind one of the chaises, by way of going to point out the different
views of the cascade; and his demand amounted to four or five pauls. To give you an idea of
the extortion of those villainous publicans, I must tell you that for a dinner and supper,
which even hunger could not tempt us to eat, and a night's lodging in three truckle beds, I
paid eighty pauls, amounting to forty shillings sterling. You ask me why I submitted to such
imposition? I will tell you--I have more than once in my travels made a formal complaint of
the exorbitancy of a publican, to the magistrate of the place; but I never received any satisfaction,
and have lost abundance of time. Had I proceeded to manual correction, I should have alarmed
and terrified the women: had I peremptorily refused to pay the sum total, the landlord, who
was the post-master, would not have supplied me with horses to proceed on my journey. I tried
the experiment at Muy in France, where I put myself into a violent passion, had abundance of
trouble, was detained till it was almost night, and after all found myself obliged to submit,
furnishing at the same time matter of infinite triumph to the mob, which had surrounded the
coach, and interested themselves warmly in favour of their townsman. If some young patriot,
in good health and spirits, would take the trouble as often as he is imposed upon by the road
in travelling, to have recourse to the fountain-head, and prefer a regular complaint to the
comptroller of the posts, either in France or Italy, he would have ample satisfaction, and
do great service to the community. Terni is an agreeable town, pretty well built, and situated
in a pleasant valley, between two branches of the river Nera, whence it was called by the antients,
Interamna. Here is an agreeable piazza, where stands a church that was of old a heathen temple.
There are some valuable paintings in the church. The people are said to be very civil, and
provisions to be extremely cheap. It was the birthplace of the emperor Tacitus, as well as
of the historian of the same name. In our journey from hence to Spoleto, we passed over a high
mountain, (called, from its height, Somma) where it was necessary to have two additional horses
to the carriage, and the road winds along a precipice. which is equally dangerous and dreadful.
We passed through part of Spoleto, the capital of Umbria, which is a pretty large city. Of
this, however, I give no other account from my own observation, but that I saw at a distance
the famous Gothic aqueduct of brick: this is mentioned by Addison as a structure, which, for
the height of its arches, is not equalled by any thing in Europe. The road from hence to Foligno,
where we lay, is kept in good order, and lies through a delightful plain, laid out into beautiful
inclosures, abounding with wine, oil, corn, and cattle, and watered by the pastoral streams
of the famous river Clitumnus, which takes its rise in three or four separate rivulets issuing
from a rock near the highway. On the right-hand, we saw several towns situated on rising grounds,
and among the rest, that of Assissio, famous for the birth of St. Francis, whose body, being
here deposited, occasions a concourse of pilgrims. We met a Roman princess going thither with
a grand retinue, in consequence of a vow she had made for the re-establishment of her health.
Foligno, the Fulginium of the antients, is a small town, not unpleasant, lying in the midst
of mulberry plantations, vineyards, and corn-fields, and built on both sides of the little
river Topino. In choosing our beds at the inn, I perceived one chamber locked, and desired
it might be opened; upon which the cameriere declared with some reluctance, "Besogna dire a
su' eccellenza; poco fa, che una bestia e morta in questa camera, e non e ancora lustrata,"
"Your Excellency must know that a filthy Beast died lately in that Chamber, and it is not yet
purified and put in order." When I enquired what beast it was, he replied, "Un'eretico Inglese,"
"An English heretic." I suppose he would not have made so free with our country and religion,
if he had not taken us for German catholics, as we afterwards learned from Mr. R--i. Next day,
we crossed the Tyber, over a handsome bridge, and in mounting the steep hill upon which the
city of Perugia stands, our horses being exhausted, were dragged backwards by the weight of
the carriage to the very edge of a precipice, where, happily for us, a man passing that way,
placed a large stone behind one of the wheels, which stopped their motion, otherwise we should
have been all dashed in pieces. We had another ugly hill to ascend within the city, which was
more difficult and dangerous than the other: but the postilions, and the other beasts made
such efforts, that we mounted without the least stop, to the summit, where we found ourselves
in a large piazza, where the horses are always changed. There being no relays at the post,
we were obliged to stay the whole day and night at Perugia, which is a considerable city, built
upon the acclivity of a hill, adorned with some elegant fountains, and several handsome churches,
containing some valuable pictures by Guido, Raphael, and his master Pietro Perugino, who was
a native of this place. The next stage is on the banks of the lake, which was the Thrasimene
of the antients, a beautiful piece of water, above thirty miles in circumference, having three
islands, abounding with excellent fish: upon a peninsula of it, there is a town and castle.
It was in this neighbourhood where the consul Flaminius was totally defeated with great slaughter
by Hannibal. From Perugia to Florence, the posts are all double, and the road is so bad that
we never could travel above eight and twenty miles a day. We were often obliged to quit the
carriage, and walk up steep mountains; and the way in general was so unequal and stony, that
we were jolted even to the danger of our lives. I never felt any sort of exercise or fatigue
so intolerable; and I did not fail to bestow an hundred benedictions per diem upon the banker
Barazzi, by whose advice we had taken this road; yet there was no remedy but patience. If the
coach had not been incredibly strong, it must have been shattered to pieces. The fifth night
we passed at a place called Camoccia, a miserable cabaret, where we were fain to cook our own
supper, and lay in a musty chamber, which had never known a fire, and indeed had no fire-place,
and where we ran the risque of being devoured by rats. Next day one of the irons of the coach
gave way at Arezzo, where we were detained two hours before it could be accommodated. I might
have taken this opportunity to view the remains of the antient Etruscan amphitheatre, and the
temple of Hercules, described by the cavalier Lorenzo Guazzesi, as standing in the neighbourhood
of this place: but the blacksmith assured me his work would be finished in a few minutes; and
as I had nothing so much at heart as the speedy accomplishment of this disagreeable journey,
I chose to suppress my curiosity, rather than be the occasion of a moment's delay. But all
the nights we had hitherto passed were comfortable in comparison to this, which we suffered
at a small village, the name of which I do not remember. The house was dismal and dirty beyond
all description; the bed-cloaths filthy enough to turn the stomach of a muleteer; and the victuals
cooked in such a manner, that even a Hottentot could not have beheld them without loathing.
We had sheets of our own, which were spread upon a mattrass, and here I took my repose wrapped
in a greatcoat, if that could be called repose which was interrupted by the innumerable stings
of vermin. In the morning, I was seized with a dangerous fit of hooping-cough, which terrified
my wife, alarmed my people, and brought the whole community into the house. I had undergone
just such another at Paris, about a year before. This forenoon, one of our coach wheels flew
off in the neighbourhood of Ancisa, a small town, where we were detained above two hours by
this accident; a delay which was productive of much disappointment, danger, vexation, and fatigue.
There being no horses at the last post, we were obliged to wait until those which brought us
thither were sufficiently refreshed to proceed. Understanding that all the gates of Florence
are shut at six, except two that are kept open for the accommodation of travellers; and that
to reach the nearest of these gates, it was necessary to pass the river Arno in a ferry-boat,
which could not transport the carriage; I determined to send my servant before with a light
chaise to enter the nearest gate before it was shut, and provide a coach to come and take us
up at the side of the river, where we should be obliged to pass in the boat: for I could not
bear the thoughts of lying another night in a common cabaret. Here, however, another difficulty
occurred. There was but one chaise, and a dragoon officer, in the imperial troops, insisted
upon his having bespoke it for himself and his servant. A long dispute ensued, which had like
to have produced a quarrel: but at length I accommodated matters, by telling the officer that
he should have a place in it gratis, and his servant might ride a-horse-back. He accepted the
offer without hesitation; but, in the mean time, we set out in the coach before them, and having
proceeded about a couple of miles, the road was so deep from a heavy rain, and the beasts were
so fatigued, that they could not proceed. The postilions scourging the poor animals with great
barbarity, they made an effort, and pulled the coach to the brink of a precipice, or rather
a kind of hollow-way, which might be about seven or eight feet lower than the road. Here my
wife and I leaped out, and stood under the rain up to the ancles in mud; while the postilions
still exercising their whips, one of the fore-horses fairly tumbled down the descent, arid
hung by the neck, so that he was almost strangled before he could be disengaged from the traces,
by the assistance of some foot travellers that happened to pass. While we remained in this
dilemma, the chaise, with the officer and my servant, coming up, we exchanged places; my wife
and I proceeded in the chaise, and left them with Miss C-- and Mr. R--, to follow in the coach.
The road from hence to Florence is nothing but a succession of steep mountains, paved and conducted
in such a manner, that one would imagine the design had been to render it impracticable by
any sort of wheel-carriage. Notwithstanding all our endeavours, I found it would be impossible
to enter Florence before the gates were shut. I flattered and threatened the driver by turns:
but the fellow, who had been remarkably civil at first, grew sullen and impertinent. He told
me I must not think of reaching Florence: that the boat would not take the carriage on board;
and that from the other side, I must walk five miles before I should reach the gate that was
open: but he would carry me to an excellent osteria, where I should be entertained and lodged
like a prince. I was now convinced that he had lingered on purpose to serve this inn-keeper;
and I took it for granted that what he told me of the distance between the ferry and the gate
was a lie. It was eight o'clock when we arrived at his inn. I alighted with my wife to view
the chambers, desiring he would not put up his horses. Finding it was a villainous house, we
came forth, and, by this time, the horses were put up. I asked the fellow how he durst presume
to contradict my orders, and commanded him to put them to the chaise. He asked in his turn
if I was mad? If I thought I and the lady had strength and courage enough to walk five miles
in the dark, through a road which we did not know, and which was broke up by a continued rain
of two days? I told him he was an impertinent rascal, and as he still hesitated, I collared
him with one hand, and shook my cane over his head with the other. It was the only weapon I
had, either offensive or defensive; for I had left my sword, and musquetoon in the coach. At
length the fellow obeyed, though with great reluctance, cracking many severe jokes upon us
in the mean time, and being joined in his raillery by the inn-keeper, who had all the external
marks of a ruffian. The house stood in a solitary situation, and not a soul appeared but these
two miscreants, so that they might have murdered us without fear of detection. "You do not
like the apartments? (said one) to be sure they were not fitted up for persons of your rank
and quality!" "You will be glad of a worse chamber, (continued the other) before you get to
bed." "If you walk to Florence tonight, you will sleep so sound, that the fleas will not disturb
you." "Take care you do not take up your night's lodging in the middle of the road, or in the
ditch of the city-wall." I fired inwardly at these sarcasms, to which, however, I made no reply;
and my wife was almost dead with fear. In the road from hence to the boat, we met with an ill-looking
fellow, who offered his service to conduct us into the city, and such was our situation, that
I was fain to accept his proposal, especially as we had two small boxes in the chaise by accident,
containing some caps and laces belonging to my wife, I still hoped the postilion had exaggerated
in the distance between the boat and the city gate, and was confirmed in this opinion by the
ferryman, who said we had not above half a league to walk. Behold us then in this expedition;
myself wrapped up in a very heavy greatcoat, and my cane in my hand. I did not imagine I could
have walked a couple of miles in this equipage, had my life been depending; my wife a delicate
creature, who had scarce ever walked a mile in her life; and the ragamuffin before us with
our boxes under his arm. The night was dark and wet; the road slippery and dirty; not a soul
was seen, nor a sound was heard: all was silent, dreary, and horrible. I laid my account with
a violent fit of illness from the cold I should infallibly catch, if I escaped assassination,
the fears of which were the more troublesome as I had no weapon to defend our lives. While
I laboured under the weight of my greatcoat which made the streams of sweat flow down my face
and shoulders, I was plunging in the mud, up to the mid-leg at every step; and at the same
time obliged to support my wife, who wept in silence, half dead with terror and fatigue. To
crown our vexation, our conductor walked so fast, that he was often out of sight, and I imagined
he had run away with the boxes. All I could do on these occasions, was to hollow as loud as
I could, and swear horribly that I would blow his brains out. I did not know but these oaths
and menaces might keep other rogues in awe. In this manner did we travel three long miles,
making almost an intire circuit of the city-wall, without seeing the face of a human creature,
and at length reached the gate, where we were examined by the guard, and allowed to pass, after
they had told us it was a long mile from thence to the house of Vanini, where we proposed to
lodge. No matter, being now fairly within the city, I plucked up my spirits, and performed
the rest of the journey with such ease, that I am persuaded, I could have walked at the same
pace all night long, without being very much fatigued. It was near ten at night, when we entered
the auberge in such a draggled and miserable condition, that Mrs. Vanini almost fainted at
sight of us, on the supposition that we had met with some terrible disaster, and that the rest
of the company were killed. My wife and I were immediately accommodated with dry stockings
and shoes, a warm apartment, and a good supper, which I ate with great satisfaction, arising
not only from our having happily survived the adventure, but also from a conviction that my
strength and constitution were wonderfully repaired: not but that I still expected a severe
cold, attended with a terrible fit of the asthma: but in this I was luckily disappointed. I
now for the first time drank to the health of my physician Barazzi, fully persuaded that the
hardships and violent exercise I underwent by following his advice, had greatly contributed
to the re-establishment of my health. In this particular, I imitate the gratitude of Tavernier,
who was radically cured of the gout by a Turkish aga in Aegypt, who gave him the bastinado,
because he would not look at the head of the bashaw of Cairo, which the aga had in a bag, to
be presented to the grand signior at Constantinople.

I did not expect to see the rest of our company that night, as I never doubted but they would
stay with the coach at the inn on the other side of the Arno: but at mid-night we were joined
by Miss C-- and Mr. R--, who had left the carriage at the inn, under the auspices of the captain
and my servant, and followed our foot-steps by walking from the ferry-boat to Florence, conducted
by one of the boatmen. Mr. R-- seemed to be much ruffled and chagrined; but, as he did not
think proper to explain the cause, he had no right to expect that I should give him satisfaction
for some insult he had received from my servant. They had been exposed to a variety of disagreeable
adventures from the impracticability of the road. The coach had been several times in the most
imminent hazard of being lost with all our baggage; and at one place, it was necessary to hire
a dozen of oxen, and as many men, to disengage it from the holes into which it had run. It
was in the confusion of these adventures, that the captain and his valet, Mr. R-- and my servant,
had like to have gone all by the ears together. The peace was with difficulty preserved by
the interposition of Miss C--, who suffered incredibly from cold and wet, terror, vexation,
and fatigue: yet happily no bad consequence ensued. The coach and baggage were brought safely
into Florence next morning, when all of us found ourselves well refreshed, and in good spirits.
I am afraid this is not the case with you, who must by this time be quite jaded with this long
epistle, which shall therefore be closed without further ceremony by,--Yours always.

LETTER XXXV

NICE, March 20, 1765.

DEAR SIR,--The season being far advanced, and the weather growing boisterous, I made but a
short stay at Florence, and set out for Pisa, with full resolution to take the nearest road
to Lerici, where we proposed to hire a felucca for Genoa. I had a great desire to see Leghorn
and Lucca; but the dread of a winter's voyage by sea in an open boat effectually restrained
my curiosity. To avoid the trouble of having our baggage shifted every post, I hired two chaises
to Pisa for a couple of zequines, and there we arrived in safety about seven in the evening,
though not without fear of the consequence, as the calesses were quite open, and it rained
all the way. I must own I was so sick of the wretched accommodation one meets with in every
part of Italy, except the great cities, so averse to the sea at this season, and so fond of
the city of Pisa, that I should certainly have stayed here the winter, had not I been separated
from my books and papers, as well as from other conveniencies and connexions which I had at
Nice; and foreseen that the thoughts of performing the same disagreeable voyage in the spring
would imbitter my whole winter's enjoyment. I again hired two calesses for Lerici, proposing
to lie at Sarzana, three miles short of that place, where we were told we should find comfortable
lodging, and to embark next day without halting. When we departed in the morning, it rained
very hard, and the Cerchio, which the chaises had formerly passed, almost without wetting the
wheels, was now swelled to a mighty river, broad and deep and rapid. It was with great difficulty
I could persuade my wife to enter the boat; for it blew a storm, and she had seen it in coming
over from the other side hurried down a considerable way by the rapidity of the current, notwithstanding
all the efforts of the watermen. Near two hours were spent in transporting us with our chaises.
The road between this and Pietra Santa was rendered almost impassable. When we arrived at Massa,
it began to grow dark, and the post-master assured us that the road to Sarzana was overflowed
in such a manner as not to be passed even in the day-time, without imminent danger. We therefore
took up our lodging for the night at this house, which was in all respects one of the worst
we had yet entered. Next day, we found the Magra as large and violent as the Cerchio: however,
we passed it without any accident, and in the afternoon arrived at Lerici. There we were immediately
besieged by a number of patrons of feluccas, from among whom I chose a Spaniard, partly because
he looked like an honest man, and produced an ample certificate, signed by an English gentleman;
and partly, because he was not an Italian; for, by this time, I had imbibed a strong prejudice
against the common people of that country. We embarked in the morning before day, with a gale
that made us run the lee-gunwale in the water; but, when we pretended to turn the point of
Porto Venere, we found the wind full in our teeth, and were obliged to return to our quarters,
where we had been shamefully fleeced by the landlord, who, nevertheless, was not such an exorbitant
knave as the post-master, whose house I would advise all travellers to avoid. Here, indeed,
I had occasion to see an instance of prudence and oeconomy, which I should certainly imitate,
if ever I had occasion to travel this way by myself. An Englishman, who had hired a felucca
from Antibes to Leghorn, was put in here by stress of weather; but being aware of the extortion
of innkeepers, and the bad accommodation in their houses, he slept on board on his own mattrasses;
and there likewise he had all his conveniencies for eating. He sent his servant on shore occasionally
to buy provision, and see it cooked according to his direction in some public house; and had
his meals regularly in the felucca. This evening he came ashore to stretch his legs, and took
a solitary walk on the beach, avoiding us with great care, although he knew we were English;
his valet who was abundantly communicative, told my servant, that in coming through France,
his master had travelled three days in company with two other English gentlemen, whom he met
upon the road, and in all that time he never spoke a word to either, yet in other respects,
he was a good man, mild, charitable, and humane. This is a character truly British. At five
o'clock in the morning we put to sea again, and though the wind was contrary, made shift to
reach the town of Sestri di Levante, where we were most graciously received by the publican
butcher and his family. The house was in much better order than before; the people were much
more obliging; we passed a very tolerable night, and had a very reasonable bill to pay in the
morning. I cannot account for this favourable change any other way, than by ascribing it to
the effects of a terrible storm, which had two days before torn up a great number of their
olive-trees by the roots, and done such damage as terrified them into humility and submission.
Next day, the water being delightful, we arrived by one o'clock in the afternoon at Genoa.
Here I made another bargain with our patron Antonio, to carry us to Nice. He had been hitherto
remarkably obliging, and seemingly modest. He spoke Latin fluently, and was tinctured with
the sciences. I began to imagine he was a person of a good family, who had met with misfortunes
in life, and respected him accordingly: but I afterwards found him mercenary, mean, and rapacious.
The wind being still contrary, when we departed from Genoa, we could get no further than Finale,
where we lodged in a very dismal habitation, which was recommended to us as the best auberge
in the place. What rendered it the more uncomfortable, the night was cold, and there was not
a fire-place in the house, except in the kitchen. The beds (if they deserved that name) were
so shockingly nasty, that we could not have used them, had not a friend of Mr. R-- supplied
us with mattrasses, sheets, and coverlets; for our own sheets were on board the felucca, which
was anchored at a distance from the shore. Our fare was equally wretched: the master of the
house was a surly assassin, and his cameriere or waiter, stark-staring mad. Our situation was
at the same time shocking and ridiculous. Mr. R-- quarrelled over night with the master, who
swore in broken French to my man, that he had a good mind to poniard that impertinent Piedmontese.
In the morning, before day, Mr. R--, coming into my chamber, gave me to understand that he
had been insulted by the landlord, who demanded six and thirty livres for our supper and lodging.
Incensed at the rascal's presumption, I assured him I would make him take half the money, and
a good beating into the bargain. He replied, that he would have saved me the trouble of beating
him, had not the cameriere, who was a very sensible fellow, assured him the padrone was out
of his senses, and if roughly handled, might commit some extravagance. Though I was exceedingly
ruffled, I could not help laughing at the mad cameriere's palming himself upon R--y, as a sensible
fellow, and transferring the charge of madness upon his master, who seemed to be much more
knave than fool. While Mr. R-- went to mass, I desired the cameriere to bid his master bring
the bill, and to tell him that if it was not reasonable, I would carry him before the commandant.
In the mean time I armed myself with my sword in one hand and my cane in the other. The inn-keeper
immediately entered, pale and staring, and when I demanded his bill, he told me, with a profound
reverence that he should be satisfied with whatever I myself thought proper to give. Surprised
at this moderation, I asked if he should be content with twelve livres, and he answered, "Contentissimo,"
with another prostration. Then he made an apology for the bad accommodation of his house, and
complained, that the reproaches of the other gentleman, whom he was pleased to call my majorduomo,
had almost turned his brain. When he quitted the room, his cameriere, laying hold of his master's
last words, pointed to his own forehead, and said, he had informed the gentleman over night
that his patron was mad. This day we were by a high wind in the afternoon, driven for shelter
into Porto Mauritio, where we found the post-house even worse than that of Finale; and what
rendered it more shocking was a girl quite covered with the confluent smallpox, who lay in
a room through which it was necessary to pass to the other chambers, and who smelled so strong
as to perfume the whole house. We were but fifteen miles from St. Remo, where I knew the auberge
was tolerable, and thither I resolved to travel by land. I accordingly ordered five mules to
travel post, and a very ridiculous cavalcade we formed, the women being obliged to use common
saddles; for in this country even the ladies sit astride. The road lay along one continued
precipice, and was so difficult, that the beasts never could exceed a walking pace. In some
places we were obliged to alight. Seven hours were spent in travelling fifteen short miles:
at length we arrived at our old lodgings in St. Remo, which we found white-washed, and in great
order. We supped pretty comfortably; slept well; and had no reason to complain of imposition
in paying the bill. This was not the case in the article of the mules, for which I was obliged
to pay fifty livres, according to the regulation of the posts. The postmaster, who came along
with us, had the effrontery to tell me, that if I had hired the mules to carry me and my company
to St. Remo, in the way of common travelling, they would have cost me but fifteen livres; but
as I demanded post-horses, I must submit to the regulations. This is a distinction the more
absurd, as the road is of such a nature as renders it impossible to travel faster in one way
than in another; nor indeed is there the least difference either in the carriage or convenience,
between travelling post and journey riding. A publican might with the same reason charge me
three livres a pound for whiting, and if questioned about the imposition, reply, that if I
had asked for fish I should have had the same whiting for the fifth part of the money: but
that he made a wide difference between selling it as fish, and selling it as whiting. Our felucca
came round from Porto Mauritio in the night, and embarking next morning, we arrived at Nice
about four in the afternoon.

Thus have I given you a circumstantial detail of my Italian expedition, during which I was
exposed to a great number of hardships, which I thought my weakened constitution could not
have bore; as well as to violent fits of passion, chequered, however, with transports of a
more agreeable nature; insomuch that I may say I was for two months continually agitated either
in mind or body, and very often in both at the same time. As my disorder at first arose from
a sedentary life, producing a relaxation of the fibres, which naturally brought on a listlessness,
indolence, and dejection of the spirits, I am convinced that this hard exercise of mind and
body, co-operated with the change of air and objects, to brace up the relaxed constitution,
and promote a more vigorous circulation of the juices, which had long languished even almost
to stagnation. For some years, I had been as subject to colds as a delicate woman new delivered.
If I ventured to go abroad when there was the least moisture either in the air, or upon the
ground, I was sure to be laid up a fortnight with a cough and asthma. But, in this journey,
I suffered cold and rain, and stood, and walked in the wet, heated myself with exercise, and
sweated violently, without feeling the least disorder; but, on the contrary, felt myself growing
stronger every day in the midst of these excesses. Since my return to Nice, it has rained the
best part of two months, to the astonishment of all the people in the country; yet during all
that time I have enjoyed good health and spirits. On Christmas-Eve, I went to the cathedral
at midnight, to hear high mass celebrated by the new bishop of Nice, in pontificalibus, and
stood near two hours uncovered in a cold gallery, without having any cause in the sequel to
repent of my curiosity. In a word, I am now so well that I no longer despair of seeing you
and the rest of my friends in England; a pleasure which is eagerly desired by,--Dear Sir, Your
affectionate humble Servant.

LETTER XXXVI

NICE, March 23, 1766.

DEAR SIR,--You ask whether I think the French people are more taxed than the English; but I
apprehend, the question would be more apropos if you asked whether the French taxes are more
insupportable than the English; for, in comparing burthens, we ought always to consider the
strength of the shoulders that bear them. I know no better way of estimating the strength,
than by examining the face of the country, and observing the appearance of the common people,
who constitute the bulk of every nation. When I, therefore, see the country of England smiling
with cultivation; the grounds exhibiting all the perfection of agriculture, parcelled out into
beautiful inclosures, cornfields, hay and pasture, woodland and common, when I see her meadows
well stocked with black cattle, her downs covered with sheep; when I view her teams of horses
and oxen, large and strong, fat and sleek; when I see her farm-houses the habitations of plenty,
cleanliness, and convenience; and her peasants well fed, well lodged, well cloathed, tall and
stout, and hale and jolly; I cannot help concluding that the people are well able to bear those
impositions which the public necessities have rendered necessary. On the other hand, when I
perceive such signs of poverty, misery and dirt, among the commonalty of France, their unfenced
fields dug up in despair, without the intervention of meadow or fallow ground, without cattle
to furnish manure, without horses to execute the plans of agriculture; their farm-houses mean,
their furniture wretched, their apparel beggarly; themselves and their beasts the images of
famine; I cannot help thinking they groan under oppression, either from their landlords, or
their government; probably from both.

The principal impositions of the French government are these: first, the taille, payed by all
the commons, except those that are privileged: secondly, the capitation, from which no persons
(not even the nobles) are excepted: thirdly, the tenths and twentieths, called Dixiemes and
Vingtiemes, which every body pays. This tax was originally levied as an occasional aid in times
of war, and other emergencies; but by degrees is become a standing revenue even in time of
peace. All the money arising from these impositions goes directly to the king's treasury; and
must undoubtedly amount to a very great sum. Besides these, he has the revenue of the farms,
consisting of the droits d'aydes, or excise on wine, brandy, &c. of the custom-house duties;
of the gabelle, comprehending that most oppressive obligation on individuals to take a certain
quantity of salt at the price which the farmers shall please to fix; of the exclusive privilege
to sell tobacco; of the droits de controlle, insinuation, centieme denier, franchiefs, aubeine,
echange et contre-echange arising from the acts of voluntary jurisdiction, as well as certain
law-suits. These farms are said to bring into the king's coffers above one hundred and twenty
millions of livres yearly, amounting to near five millions sterling: but the poor people are
said to pay about a third more than this sum, which the farmers retain to enrich themselves,
and bribe the great for their protection; which protection of the great is the true reason
why this most iniquitous, oppressive, and absurd method of levying money is not laid aside.
Over and above those articles I have mentioned, the French king draws considerable sums from
his clergy, under the denomination of dons gratuits, or free-gifts; as well as from the subsidies
given by the pays d'etats such as Provence, Languedoc, and Bretagne, which are exempted from
the taille. The whole revenue of the French king amounts to between twelve and thirteen millions
sterling. These are great resources for the king: but they will always keep the people miserable,
and effectually prevent them from making such improvements as might turn their lands to the
best advantage. But besides being eased in the article of taxes, there is something else required
to make them exert themselves for the benefit of their country. They must be free in their
persons, secure in their property, indulged with reasonable leases, and effectually protected
by law from the insolence and oppression of their superiors.

Great as the French king's resources may appear, they are hardly sufficient to defray the enormous
expence of his government. About two millions sterling per annum of his revenue are said to
be anticipated for paying the interest of the public debts; and the rest is found inadequate
to the charge of a prodigious standing army, a double frontier of fortified towns and the extravagant
appointments of ambassadors, generals, governors, intendants, commandants, and other officers
of the crown, all of whom affect a pomp, which is equally ridiculous and prodigal. A French
general in the field is always attended by thirty or forty cooks; and thinks it is incumbent
upon him, for the glory of France, to give a hundred dishes every day at his table. When don
Philip, and the marechal duke de Belleisle, had their quarters at Nice, there were fifty scullions
constantly employed in the great square in plucking poultry. This absurd luxury infects their
whole army. Even the commissaries keep open table; and nothing is seen but prodigality and
profusion. The king of Sardinia proceeds upon another plan. His troops are better cloathed,
better payed, and better fed than those of France. The commandant of Nice has about four hundred
a year of appointments, which enable him to live decently, and even to entertain strangers.
On the other hand, the commandant of Antibes, which is in all respects more inconsiderable
than Nice, has from the French king above five times the sum to support the glory of his monarch,
which all the sensible part of mankind treat with ridicule and contempt. But the finances of
France are so ill managed, that many of their commandants, and other officers, have not been
able to draw their appointments these two years. In vain they complain and remonstrate. When
they grow troublesome they are removed. How then must they support the glory of France? How,
but by oppressing the poor people. The treasurer makes use of their money for his own benefit.
The king knows it; he knows his officers, thus defrauded, fleece and oppress his people: but
he thinks proper to wink at these abuses. That government may be said to be weak and tottering
which finds itself obliged to connive at such proceedings. But if in the time of a minority,
the power of the government should be divided among different competitors for the regency,
the parliaments and people will find it still more easy to acquire and ascertain the liberty
at which they aspire, because they will have the balance of power in their hands, and be able
to make either scale preponderate. I could say a great deal more upon this subject; and I have
some remarks to make relating to the methods which might be taken in the case of a fresh rupture
with France, for making a vigorous impression on that kingdom. But these I in list defer till
another occasion, having neither room nor leisure at present to add any thing, but that I am,
with great truth,--Dear Sir, Your very humble Servant.

LETTER XXXVII

NICE, April 2, 1765.

DEAR DOCTOR,--As I have now passed a second winter at Nice I think myself qualified to make
some further remarks on this climate. During the heats of last summer, I flattered myself with
the prospect of the fine weather I should enjoy in the winter; but neither I, nor any person
in this country, could foresee the rainy weather that prevailed from the middle of November,
till the twentieth of March. In this short period of four months, we have had fifty-six days
of rain, which I take to be a greater quantity than generally falls during the six worst months
of the year in the county of Middlesex, especially as it was, for the most part, a heavy, continued
rain. The south winds generally predominate in the wet season at Nice: but this winter the
rain was accompanied with every wind that blows, except the south; though the most frequent
were those that came from the east and north quarters. Notwithstanding these great rains, such
as were never known before at Nice in the memory of man, the intermediate days of fair weather
were delightful, and the ground seemed perfectly dry. The air itself was perfectly free from
moisture. Though I live upon a ground floor, surrounded on three sides by a garden, I could
not perceive the least damp, either on the floors, or the furniture; neither was I much incommoded
by the asthma, which used always to harass me most in wet weather. In a word, I passed the
winter here much more comfortably than I expected. About the vernal equinox, however, I caught
a violent cold, which was attended with a difficulty of breathing, and as the sun advances
towards the tropic, I find myself still more subject to rheums. As the heat increases, the
humours of the body are rarefied, and, of consequence, the pores of the skin are opened; while
the east wind sweeping over the Alps and Apennines, covered with snow, continues surprisingly
sharp and penetrating. Even the people of the country, who enjoy good health, are afraid of
exposing themselves to the air at this season, the intemperature of which may last till the
middle of May, when all the snow on the mountains will probably be melted: then the air will
become mild and balmy, till, in the progress of summer, it grows disagreeably hot, and the
strong evaporation from the sea makes it so saline, as to be unhealthy for those who have a
scorbutical habit. When the sea-breeze is high, this evaporation is so great as to cover the
surface of the body with a kind of volatile brine, as I plainly perceived last summer. I am
more and more convinced that this climate is unfavourable for the scurvy. Were I obliged to
pass my life in it, I would endeavour to find a country retreat among the mountains, at some
distance from the sea, where I might enjoy a cool air, free from this impregnation, unmolested
by those flies, gnats, and other vermin which render the lower parts almost uninhabitable.
To this place I would retire in the month of June, and there continue till the beginning of
October, when I would return to my habitation in Nice, where the winter is remarkably mild
and agreeable. In March and April however, I would not advise a valetudinarian to go forth,
without taking precaution against the cold. An agreeable summer retreat may be found on the
other side of the Var, at, or near the town of Grasse, which is pleasantly situated on the
ascent of a hill in Provence, about seven English miles from Nice. I am told it affords good
lodging, and is well supplied with provisions.

We are now preparing for our journey to England, from the exercise of which I promise myself
much benefit: a journey extremely agreeable, not only on that account, but also because it
will restore me to the company of my friends, and remove me from a place where I leave nothing
but the air which I can possibly regret.

The only friendships I have contracted at Nice are with strangers, who, like myself, only sojourn
here for a season. I now find by experience, it is great folly to buy furniture, unless one
is resolved to settle here for some years. The Nissards assured me, with great confidence,
that I should always be able to sell it for a very little loss; whereas I find myself obliged
to part with it for about one-third of what it cost. I have sent for a coach to Aix, and as
soon as it arrives, shall take my departure; so that the next letter you receive from me will
be dated at some place on the road. I purpose to take Antibes, Toulon, Marseilles, Aix, Avignon,
and Orange, in my way: places which I have not yet seen; and where, perhaps, I shall find something
for your amusement, which will always be a consideration of some weight with,--Dear Sir, Yours.

LETTER XXXVIII

To DR. S-- AT NICE

TURIN, March 18, 1765.

DEAR SIR,--Turin is about thirty leagues from Nice, the greater part of the way lying over
frightful mountains covered with snow. The difficulty of the road, however, reaches no farther
than Coni, from whence there is an open highway through a fine plain country, as far as the
capital of Piedmont, and the traveller is accommodated with chaise and horses to proceed either
post, or by cambiatura, as in other parts of Italy. There are only two ways of performing the
journey over the mountains from Nice; one is to ride a mule-back, and the other to be carried
in a chair. The former I chose, and set out with my servant on the seventh day of February
at two in the afternoon. I was hardly clear of Nice, when it began to rain so hard that in
less than an hour the mud was half a foot deep in many parts of the road. This was the only
inconvenience we suffered, the way being in other respects practicable enough; for there is
but one small hill to cross on this side of the village of L'Escarene, where we arrived about
six in the evening. The ground in this neighbourhood is tolerably cultivated, and the mountains
are planted to the tops with olive trees. The accommodation here is so very bad, that I had
no inclination to be a-bed longer than was absolutely necessary for refreshment; and therefore
I proceeded on my journey at two in the morning, conducted by a guide, whom I hired for this
purpose at the rate of three livres a day. Having ascended one side, and descended the other,
of the mountain called Braus, which took up four hours, though the road is not bad, we at six
reached the village of Sospello, which is agreeably situated in a small valley, surrounded
by prodigious high and barren mountains. This little plain is pretty fertile, and being watered
by a pleasant stream, forms a delightful contrast with the hideous rocks that surround it.
Having reposed myself and my mules two hours at this place, we continued our journey over the
second mountain, called Brovis, which is rather more considerable than the first, and in four
hours arrived at La Giandola, a tolerable inn situated betwixt the high road and a small river,
about a gunshot from the town of Brieglie, which we leave on the right. As we jogged along
in the grey of the morning, I was a little startled at two figures which I saw before me, and
began to put my pistols in order. It must be observed that these mountains are infested with
contrabandiers, a set of smuggling peasants, very bold and desperate, who make a traffic of
selling tobacco, salt, and other merchandize, which have not payed duty, and sometimes lay
travellers under contribution. I did not doubt but there was a gang of these free-booters at
hand; but as no more than two persons appeared, I resolved to let them know we were prepared
for defence, and fired one of my pistols, in hope that the report of it, echoed from the surrounding
rocks, would produce a proper effect: but, the mountains and roads being entirely covered with
snow to a considerable depth, there was little or no reverberation, and the sound was not louder
than that of a pop-gun, although the piece contained a good charge of powder. Nevertheless,
it did not fail to engage the attention of the strangers, one of whom immediately wheeled to
the left about, and being by this time very near me, gave me an opportunity of contemplating
his whole person. He was very tall, meagre, and yellow, with a long hooked nose, and small
twinkling eyes. He was wrapped in a kind of capot of green bays, lined with wolf-skin, had
a pair of monstrous boots, quilted on the inside with cotton, was almost covered with dirt,
and rode a mule so low that his long legs hung dangling within six inches of the ground. This
grotesque figure was so much more ludicrous than terrible, that I could not help laughing;
when, taking his pipe out of his mouth, he very politely accosted me by name. You may easily
guess I was exceedingly surprised at such an address on the top of the mountain Brovis: but
he forthwith put an end to it too, by discovering himself to be the marquis M--, whom I had
the honour to be acquainted with at Nice. After having rallied him upon his equipage, he gave
me to understand he had set out from Nice the morning of the same day that I departed; that
he was going to Turin, and that he had sent one of his servants before him to Coni with his
baggage. Knowing him to be an agreeable companion, I was glad of this encounter, and we resolved
to travel the rest of the way together. We dined at La Giandola, and in the afternoon rode
along the little river Roida, which runs in a bottom between frightful precipices, and in several
places forms natural cascades, the noise of which had well-nigh deprived us of the sense of
hearing; after a winding course among these mountains, it discharges itself into the Mediterranean
at Vintimiglia, in the territory of Genoa. As the snow did not lie on these mountains, when
we cracked our whips, there was such a repercussion of the sound as is altogether inconceivable.
We passed by the village of Saorgio, situated on an eminence, where there is a small fortress
which commands the whole pass, and in five hours arrived at our inn, on this side the Col de
Tende, where we took up our quarters, but had very little reason to boast of our entertainment.
Our greatest difficulty, however, consisted in pulling off the marquis's boots, which were
of the kind called Seafarot, by this time so loaded with dirt on the outside, and so swelled
with the rain within, that he could neither drag them after him as he walked, nor disencumber
his legs of them, without such violence as seemed almost sufficient to tear him limb from limb.
In a word, we were obliged to tie a rope about his heel, and all the people in the house assisting
to pull, the poor marquis was drawn from one end of the apartment to the other before the boot
would give way: at last his legs were happily disengaged, and the machines carefully dried
and stuffed for next day's journey.

We took our departure from hence at three in the morning, and at four, began to mount the Col
de Tende, which is by far the highest mountain in the whole journey: it was now quite covered
with snow, which at the top of it was near twenty feet thick. Half way up, there are quarters
for a detachment of soldiers, posted here to prevent smuggling, and an inn called La Ca, which
in the language of the country signifies the house. At this place, we hired six men to assist
us in ascending the mountain, each of them provided with a kind of hough to break the ice,
and make a sort of steps for the mules. When we were near the top, however, we were obliged
to alight, and climb the mountain supported each by two of those men, called Coulants who walk
upon the snow with great firmness and security. We were followed by the mules, and though they
are very sure-footed animals, and were frost-shod for the occasion, they stumbled and fell
very often; the ice being so hard that the sharp-headed nails in their shoes could not penetrate.
Having reached the top of this mountain, from whence there is no prospect but of other rocks
and mountains, we prepared for descending on the other side by the Leze, which is an occasional
sledge made of two pieces of wood, carried up by the Coulants for this purpose. I did not much
relish this kind of carriage, especially as the mountain was very steep, and covered with such
a thick fog that we could hardly see two or three yards before us. Nevertheless, our guides
were so confident, and my companion, who had passed the same way on other occasions, was so
secure, that I ventured to place myself on this machine, one of the coulants standing behind
me, and the other sitting before, as the conductor, with his feet paddling among the snow,
in order to moderate the velocity of its descent. Thus accommodated, we descended the mountain
with such rapidity, that in an hour we reached Limon, which is the native place of almost all
the muleteers who transport merchandize from Nice to Coni and Turin. Here we waited full two
hours for the mules, which travelled with the servants by the common road. To each of the coulants
we paid forty sols, which are nearly equal to two shillings sterling. Leaving Limon, we were
in two hours quite disengaged from the gorges of the mountains, which are partly covered with
wood and pasturage, though altogether inaccessible, except in summer; but from the foot of
the Col de Tende, the road lies through a plain all the way to Turin. We took six hours to
travel from the inn where we had lodged over the mountain to Limon, and five hours from thence
to Coni. Here we found our baggage, which we had sent off by the carriers one day before we
departed from Nice; and here we dismissed our guides, together with the mules. In winter, you
have a mule for this whole journey at the rate of twenty livres; and the guides are payed at
the rate of two livres a day, reckoning six days, three for the journey to Coni, and three
for their return to Nice. We set out so early in the morning in order to avoid the inconveniencies
and dangers that attend the passage of this mountain. The first of these arises from your meeting
with long strings of loaded mules in a slippery road, the breadth of which does not exceed
a foot and an half. As it is altogether impossible for two mules to pass each other in such
a narrow path, the muleteers have made doublings or elbows in different parts, and when the
troops of mules meet, the least numerous is obliged to turn off into one of these doublings,
and there halt until the others are past. Travellers, in order to avoid this disagreeable delay,
which is the more vexatious, considering the excessive cold, begin the ascent of the mountain
early in the morning before the mules quit their inns. But the great danger of travelling here
when the sun is up, proceeds from what they call the Valanches. These are balls of snow detached
from the mountains which over-top the road, either by the heat of the sun, or the humidity
of the weather. A piece of snow thus loosened from the rock, though perhaps not above three
or four feet in diameter, increases sometimes in its descent to such a degree, as to become
two hundred paces in length, and rolls down with such rapidity, that the traveller is crushed
to death before he can make three steps on the road. These dreadful heaps drag every thing
along with them in their descent. They tear up huge trees by the roots, and if they chance
to fall upon a house, demolish it to the foundation. Accidents of this nature seldom happen
in the winter while the weather is dry; and yet scarce a year passes in which some mules and
their drivers do not perish by the valanches. At Coni we found the countess C-- from Nice,
who had made the same journey in a chair, carried by porters. This is no other than a common
elbow-chair of wood, with a straw bottom, covered above with waxed cloth, to protect the traveller
from the rain or snow, and provided with a foot-board upon which the feet rest.

It is carried like a sedan-chair; and for this purpose six or eight porters are employed at
the rate of three or four livres a head per day, according to the season, allowing three days
for their return. Of these six men, two are between the poles carrying like common chairmen,
and each of these is supported by the other two, one at each hand: but as those in the middle
sustain the greatest burthen, they are relieved by the others in a regular rotation. In descending
the mountain, they carry the poles on their shoulders, and in that case, four men are employed,
one at each end.

At Coni, you may have a chaise to go with the same horses to Turin, for which you pay fifteen
livres, and are a day and a half on the way. You may post it, however, in one day, and then
the price is seven livres ten sols per post, and ten sols to the postilion. The method we took
was that of cambiatura. This is a chaise with horses shifted at the same stages that are used
in posting: but as it is supposed to move slower, we pay but five livres per post, and ten
sols to the postilion. In order to quicken its pace, we gave ten sols extraordinary to each
postilion, and for this gratification, he drove us even faster than the post. The chaises are
like those of Italy, and will take on near two hundred weight of baggage.

Coni is situated between two small streams, and though neither very large nor populous, is
considerable for the strength of its fortifications. It is honoured with the title of the Maiden-Fortress,
because though several times besieged, it was never taken. The prince of Conti invested it
in the war of 1744; but he was obliged to raise the siege, after having given battle to the
king of Sardinia. The place was gallantly defended by the baron Leutrum, a German protestant,
the best general in the Sardinian service: but what contributed most to the miscarriage of
the enemy, was a long tract of heavy rains, which destroyed all their works, and rendered their
advances impracticable.

I need not tell you that Piedmont is one of the most fertile and agreeable countries in Europe,
and this the most agreeable part of all Piedmont, though it now appeared to disadvantage from
the rigorous season of the year: I shall only observe that we passed through Sabellian, which
is a considerable town, and arrived in the evening at Turin. We entered this fine city by the
gate of Nice, and passing through the elegant Piazza di San Carlo, took up our quarters at
the Bona Fama, which stands at one corner of the great square, called La Piazza Castel.

Were I even disposed to give a description of Turin, I should be obliged to postpone it till
another opportunity, having no room at present to say any thing more, but that I am always--Yours.

LETTER XXXIX

AIX EN PROVENCE, May 10, 1765.

DEAR SIR,--I am thus far on my way to England. I had resolved to leave Nice, without having
the least dispute with any one native of the place; but I found it impossible to keep this
resolution. My landlord, Mr. C--, a man of fashion, with whose family we had always lived in
friendship, was so reasonable as to expect I should give him up the house and garden, though
they were to be paid for till Michaelmas, and peremptorily declared I should not be permitted
to sub-let them to any other person. He had of his own accord assured me more than once that
he would take my furniture off my hands, and trusting to this assurance, I had lost the opportunity,
of disposing it to advantage: but, when the time of my departure drew near, he refused to take
it, at the same time insisting upon having the key of the house and garden, as well as on being
paid the whole rent directly, though it would not be due till the middle of September. I was
so exasperated at this treatment from a man whom I had cultivated with particular respect,
that I determined to contest it at law: but the affair was accommodated by the mediation of
a father of the Minims, a friend to both, and a merchant of Nice, who charged himself with
the care of the house and furniture. A stranger must conduct himself with the utmost circumspection
to be able to live among these people without being the dupe of imposition.

I had sent to Aix for a coach and four horses, which I hired at the rate of eighteen French
livres a day, being equal to fifteen shillings and nine-pence sterling. The river Var was so
swelled by the melting of the snow on the mountains, as to be impassable by any wheel-carriage;
and, therefore, the coach remained at Antibes, to which we went by water, the distance being
about nine or ten miles. This is the Antipolis of the antients, said to have been built like
Nice, by a colony from Marseilles. In all probability, however, it was later than the foundation
of Nice, and took its name from its being situated directly opposite to that city. Pliny says
it was famous for its tunny-fishery; and to this circumstance Martial alludes in the following
lines

  Antipolitani, fateor, sum filia thynni.
  Essem si Scombri non tibi missa forem.

  I'm spawned from Tunny of Antibes, 'tis true.
  Right Scomber had I been, I ne'er had come to you.

The famous pickle Garum was made from the Thynnus or Tunny as well as from the Scomber, but
that from the Scomber was counted the most delicate. Commentators, however, are not agreed
about the Scomber or Scombrus. Some suppose it was the Herring or Sprat; others believe it
was the mackarel; after all, perhaps it was the Anchovy, which I do not find distinguished
by any other Latin name: for the Encrasicolus is a Greek appellation altogether generical.
Those who would be further informed about the Garum and the Scomber may consult Caelius Apicius
de recogninaria, cum notis, variorum.

At present, Antibes is the frontier of France towards Italy, pretty strongly fortified, and
garrisoned by a battalion of soldiers. The town is small and inconsiderable: but the basin
of the harbour is surrounded to seaward by a curious bulwark founded upon piles driven in the
water, consisting of a wall, ramparts, casemates, and quay. Vessels lie very safe in this harbour;
but there is not water at the entrance of it to admit of ships of any burthen. The shallows
run so far off from the coast, that a ship of force cannot lie near enough to batter the town;
but it was bombarded in the late war. Its chief strength by land consists in a small quadrangular
fort detached from the body of the place, which, in a particular manner, commands the entrance
of the harbour. The wall of the town built in the sea has embrasures and salient angles, on
which a great number of cannon may be mounted.

I think the adjacent country is much more pleasant than that on the side of Nice; and there
is certainly no essential difference in the climate. The ground here is not so encumbered;
it is laid out in agreeable inclosures, with intervals of open fields, and the mountains rise
with an easy ascent at a much greater distance from the sea, than on the other side of the
bay. Besides, here are charming rides along the beach, which is smooth and firm. When we passed
in the last week of April, the corn was in the ear; the cherries were almost ripe; and the
figs had begun to blacken. I had embarked my heavy baggage on board a London ship, which happened
to be at Nice, ready to sail: as for our small trunks or portmanteaus, which we carried along
with us, they were examined at Antibes; but the ceremony was performed very superficially,
in consequence of tipping the searcher with half-a-crown, which is a wonderful conciliator
at all the bureaus in this country.

We lay at Cannes, a neat village, charmingly situated on the beach of the Mediterranean, exactly
opposite to the isles Marguerites, where state-prisoners are confined. As there are some good
houses in this place, I would rather live here for the sake of the mild climate, than either
at Antibes or Nice. Here you are not cooped up within walls, nor crowded with soldiers and
people: but are already in the country, enjoy a fine air, and are well supplied with all sorts
of fish.

The mountains of Esterelles, which in one of my former letters I described as a most romantic
and noble plantation of ever-greens, trees, shrubs, and aromatic plants, is at present quite
desolate. Last summer, some execrable villains set fire to the pines, when the wind was high.
It continued burning for several months, and the conflagration extended above ten leagues,
consuming an incredible quantity of timber. The ground is now naked on each side of the road,
or occupied by the black trunks of the trees, which have been scorched without falling. They
stand as so many monuments of the judgment of heaven, filling the mind with horror and compassion.
I could hardly refrain from shedding tears at this dismal spectacle, when I recalled the idea
of what it was about eighteen months ago.

As we stayed all night at Frejus, I had an opportunity of viewing the amphitheatre at leisure.
As near as I can judge by the eye, it is of the same dimensions with that of Nismes; but shockingly
dilapidated. The stone seats rising from the arena are still extant, and the cells under them,
where the wild beasts were kept. There are likewise the remains of two galleries one over another;
and two vomitoria or great gateways at opposite sides of the arena, which is now a fine green,
with a road through the middle of it: but all the external architecture and the ornaments are
demolished. The most intire part of the wall now constitutes part of a monastery, the monks
of which, I am told, have helped to destroy the amphitheatre, by removing the stones for their
own purposes of building. In the neighbourhood of this amphitheatre, which stands without the
walls, are the vestiges of an old edifice, said to have been the palace where the imperator
or president resided: for it was a Roman colony, much favoured by Julius Caesar, who gave it
the name of Forum Julii, and Civitas Forojuliensis. In all probability, it was he who built
the amphitheatre, and brought hither the water ten leagues from the river of Ciagne, by means
of an aqueduct, some arcades of which are still standing on the other side of the town. A great
number of statues were found in this place, together with antient inscriptions, which have
been published by different authors. I need not tell you that Julius Agricola, the father-in-law
of Tacitus, the historian, was a native of Frejus, which is now a very poor inconsiderable
place. From hence the country opens to the left, forming an extensive plain between the sea
and the mountains, which are a continuation of the Alps, that stretches through Provence and
Dauphine. This plain watered with pleasant streams, and varied with vineyards, corn-fields,
and meadow-ground, afforded a most agreeable prospect to our eyes, which were accustomed to
the sight of scorching sands, rugged rocks, and abrupt mountains in the neighbourhood of Nice.
Although this has much the appearance of a corn-country, I am told it does not produce enough
for the consumption of its inhabitants, who are obliged to have annual supplies from abroad,
imported at Marseilles. A Frenchman, at an average, eats three times the quantity of bread
that satisfies a native of England, and indeed it is undoubtedly the staff of his life. I am
therefore surprised that the Provencaux do not convert part of their vineyards into corn-fields:
for they may boast of their wine as they please; but that which is drank by the common people,
not only here, but also in all the wine countries of France, is neither so strong, nourishing,
nor (in my opinion) so pleasant to the taste as the small-beer of England. It must be owned
that all the peasants who have wine for their ordinary drink are of a diminutive size, in comparison
of those who use milk, beer, or even water; and it is a constant observation, that when there
is a scarcity of wine, the common people are always more healthy, than in those seasons when
it abounds. The longer I live, the more I am convinced that wine, and all fermented liquors,
are pernicious to the human constitution; and that for the preservation of health, and exhilaration
of the spirits, there is no beverage comparable to simple water. Between Luc and Toulon, the
country is delightfully parcelled out into inclosures. Here is plenty of rich pasturage for
black cattle, and a greater number of pure streams and rivulets than I have observed in any
other parts of France.

Toulon is a considerable place, even exclusive of the basin, docks, and arsenal, which indeed
are such as justify the remark made by a stranger when he viewed them. "The king of France
(said he) is greater at Toulon than at Versailles." The quay, the jetties, the docks, and magazines,
are contrived and executed with precision, order, solidity, and magnificence. I counted fourteen
ships of the line lying unrigged in the basin, besides the Tonant of eighty guns, which was
in dock repairing, and a new frigate on the stocks. I was credibly informed that in the last
war, the king of France was so ill-served with cannon for his navy, that in every action there
was scarce a ship which had not several pieces burst. These accidents did great damage, and
discouraged the French mariners to such a degree, that they became more afraid of their own
guns than of those of the English. There are now at Toulon above two thousand pieces of iron
cannon unfit for service. This is an undeniable proof of the weakness and neglect of the French
administration: but a more suprizing proof of their imbecility, is the state of the fortifications
that defend the entrance of this very harbour. I have some reason to think that they trusted
for its security entirely to our opinion that it must be inaccessible. Capt. E--, of one of
our frigates, lately entered the harbour with a contrary wind, which by obliging him to tack,
afforded an opportunity of sounding the whole breadth and length of the passage. He came in
without a pilot, and made a pretence of buying cordage, or some other stores; but the French
officers were much chagrined at the boldness of his enterprize. They alleged that he came for
no other reason but to sound the channel; and that he had an engineer aboard, who made drawings
of the land and the forts, their bearings and distances. In all probability, these suspicions
were communicated to the ministry; for an order immediately arrived, that no stranger should
be admitted into the docks and arsenal.

Part of the road from hence to Marseilles lies through a vast mountain, which resembles that
of Estrelles; but is not so well covered with wood, though it has the advantage of an agreeable
stream running through the bottom.

I was much pleased with Marseilles, which is indeed a noble city, large, populous, and flourishing.
The streets of what is called the new Town are open, airy and spacious; the houses well built,
and even magnificent. The harbour is an oval basin, surrounded on every side either by the
buildings or the land, so that the shipping lies perfectly secure; and here is generally an
incredible number of vessels. On the city side, there is a semi-circular quay of free-stone,
which extends thirteen hundred paces; and the space between this and the houses that front
it, is continually filled with a surprising crowd of people. The gallies, to the number of
eight or nine, are moored with their sterns to one part of the wharf, and the slaves are permitted
to work for their own benefit at their respective occupations, in little shops or booths, which
they rent for a trifle. There you see tradesmen of all kinds sitting at work, chained by one
foot, shoe-makers, taylors, silversmiths, watch and clock-makers, barbers, stocking-weavers,
jewellers, pattern-drawers, scriveners, booksellers, cutlers, and all manner of shop-keepers.
They pay about two sols a day to the king for this indulgence; live well and look jolly; and
can afford to sell their goods and labour much cheaper than other dealers and tradesmen. At
night, however, they are obliged to lie aboard. Notwithstanding the great face of business
at Marseilles, their trade is greatly on the decline; and their merchants are failing every
day. This decay of commerce is in a great measure owing to the English, who, at the peace,
poured in such a quantity of European merchandize into Martinique and Guadalupe, that when
the merchants of Marseilles sent over their cargoes, they found the markets overstocked, and
were obliged to sell for a considerable loss. Besides, the French colonists had such a stock
of sugars, coffee, and other commodities lying by them during the war, that upon the first
notice of peace, they shipped them off in great quantities for Marseilles. I am told that the
produce of the islands is at present cheaper here than where it grows; and on the other hand
the merchandize of this country sells for less money at Martinique than in Provence.

A single person, who travels in this country, may live at a reasonable rate in these towns,
by eating at the public ordinaries: but I would advise all families that come hither to make
any stay, to take furnished lodgings as soon as they can: for the expence of living at an hotel
is enormous. I was obliged to pay at Marseilles four livres a head for every meal, and half
that price for my servant, and was charged six livres a day besides for the apartment, so that
our daily expence, including breakfast and a valet de place, amounted to two loui'dores. The
same imposition prevails all over the south of France, though it is generally supposed to be
the cheapest and most plentiful part of the kingdom. Without all doubt, it must be owing to
the folly and extravagance of English travellers, who have allowed themselves to be fleeced
without wincing, until this extortion is become authorized by custom. It is very disagreeable
riding in the avenues of Marseilles, because you are confined in a dusty high road, crouded
with carriages and beasts of burden, between two white walls, the reflection from which, while
the sun shines, is intolerable. But in this neighbourhood there is a vast number of pleasant
country-houses, called Bastides, said to amount to twelve thousand, some of which may be rented
ready furnished at a very reasonable price. Marseilles is a gay city, and the inhabitants indulge
themselves in a variety of amusements. They have assemblies, a concert spirituel, and a comedy.
Here is also a spacious cours, or walk shaded with trees, to which in the evening there is
a great resort of well-dressed people.

Marseilles being a free port, there is a bureau about half a league from the city on the road
to Aix, where all carriages undergo examination; and if any thing contraband is found, the
vehicle, baggage, and even the horses are confiscated. We escaped this disagreeable ceremony
by the sagacity of our driver. Of his own accord, he declared at the bureau, that we had bought
a pound of coffee and some sugar at Marseilles, and were ready to pay the duty, which amounted
to about ten sols. They took the money, gave him a receipt, and let the carriage pass, without
further question.

I proposed to stay one night only at Aix: but Mr. A--r, who is here, had found such benefit
from drinking the waters, that I was persuaded to make trial of them for eight or ten days.
I have accordingly taken private lodgings, and drank them at the fountain-head, not without
finding considerable benefit. In my next I shall say something further of these waters, though
I am afraid they will not prove a source of much entertainment. It will be sufficient for me
to find them contribute in any degree to the health of--Dear Sir, Yours assuredly.

LETTER XL

BOULOGNE, May 23, 1765.

DEAR DOCTOR,--I found three English families at Aix, with whom I could have passed my time
very agreeably but the society is now dissolved. Mr. S--re and his lady left the place in a
few days after we arrived. Mr. A--r and lady Betty are gone to Geneva; and Mr. G--r with his
family remains at Aix. This gentleman, who laboured under a most dreadful nervous asthma, has
obtained such relief from this climate, that he intends to stay another year in the place:
and Mr. A--r found surprizing benefit from drinking the waters, for a scorbutical complaint.
As I was incommoded by both these disorders, I could not but in justice to myself, try the
united efforts of the air and the waters; especially as this consideration was re-inforced
by the kind and pressing exhortations of Mr. A--r and lady Betty, which I could not in gratitude
resist.

Aix, the capital of Provence, is a large city, watered by the small river Are. It was a Roman
colony, said to be founded by Caius Sextus Calvinus, above a century before the birth of Christ.
From the source of mineral water here found, added to the consul's name, it was called Aquae
Sextiae. It was here that Marius, the conqueror of the Teutones, fixed his headquarters, and
embellished the place with temples, aqueducts, and thermae, of which, however, nothing now
remains. The city, as it now stands, is well built, though the streets in general are narrow,
and kept in a very dirty condition. But it has a noble cours planted with double rows of tall
trees, and adorned with three or four fine fountains, the middlemost of which discharges hot
water supplied from the source of the baths. On each side there is a row of elegant houses,
inhabited chiefly by the noblesse, of which there is here a considerable number. The parliament,
which is held at Aix, brings hither a great resort of people; and as many of the inhabitants
are persons of fashion, they are well bred, gay, and sociable. The duc de Villars, who is governor
of the province, resides on the spot, and keeps an open assembly, where strangers are admitted
without reserve, and made very welcome, if they will engage in play, which is the sole occupation
of the whole company. Some of our English people complain, that when they were presented to
him, they met with a very cold reception. The French, as well as other foreigners, have no
idea of a man of family and fashion, without the title of duke, count, marquis, or lord, and
where an English gentleman is introduced by the simple expression of monsieur tel, Mr. Suchathing,
they think he is some plebeian, unworthy of any particular attention.

Aix is situated in a bottom, almost surrounded by hills, which, however, do not screen it from
the Bize, or north wind, that blows extremely sharp in the winter and spring, rendering the
air almost insupportably cold, and very dangerous to those who have some kinds of pulmonary
complaints, such as tubercules, abscesses, or spitting of blood. Lord H--, who passed part
of last winter in this place, afflicted with some of these symptoms, grew worse every day while
he continued at Aix: but, he no sooner removed to Marseilles, than all his complaints abated;
such a difference there is in the air of these two places, though the distance between them
does not exceed ten or twelve miles. But the air of Marseilles, though much more mild than
that of Aix in the winter is not near so warm as the climate of Nice, where we find in plenty
such flowers, fruit, and vegetables, even in the severest season, as will not grow and ripen,
either at Marseilles or Toulon.

If the air of Aix is disagreeably cold in the winter, it is rendered quite insufferable in
the summer, from excessive heat, occasioned by the reflexion from the rocks and mountains,
which at the same time obstruct the circulation of air: for it must be observed, that the same
mountains which serve as funnels and canals, to collect and discharge the keen blasts of winter,
will provide screens to intercept intirely the faint breezes of summer. Aix, though pretty
well provided with butcher's meat, is very ill supplied with potherbs; and they have no poultry
but what comes at a vast distance from the Lionnois. They say their want of roots, cabbage,
cauliflower, etc. is owing to a scarcity of water: but the truth is, they are very bad gardeners.
Their oil is good and cheap: their wine is indifferent: but their chief care seems employed
on the culture of silk, the staple of Provence, which is every where shaded with plantations
of mulberry trees, for the nourishment of the worms. Notwithstanding the boasted cheapness
of every article of housekeeping, in the south of France, I am persuaded a family may live
for less money at York, Durham, Hereford, and in many other cities of England than at Aix in
Provence; keep a more plentiful table; and be much more comfortably situated in all respects.
I found lodging and provision at Aix fifty per cent dearer than at Montpellier, which is counted
the dearest place in Languedoc.

The baths of Aix, so famous in antiquity, were quite demolished by the irruptions of the barbarians.
The very source of the water was lost, till the beginning of the present century (I think the
year 1704), when it was discovered by accident, in digging for the foundation of a house, at
the foot of a hill, just without the city wall. Near the same place was found a small stone
altar, with the figure of a Priapus, and some letters in capitals, which the antiquarians have
differently interpreted. From this figure, it was supposed that the waters were efficacious
in cases of barrenness. It was a long time, however, before any person would venture to use
them internally, as it did not appear that they had ever been drank by the antients. On their
re-appearance, they were chiefly used for baths to horses, and other beasts which had the mange,
and other cutaneous eruptions. At length poor people began to bathe in them for the same disorders,
and received such benefit from them, as attracted the attention of more curious inquirers.
A very superficial and imperfect analysis was made and published, with a few remarkable histories
of the cures they had performed, by three different physicians of those days; and those little
treatises, I suppose, encouraged valetudinarians to drink them without ceremony. They were
found serviceable in the gout, the gravel, scurvy, dropsy, palsy, indigestion, asthma, and
consumption; and their fame soon extended itself all over Languedoc, Gascony, Dauphine, and
Provence. The magistrates, with a view to render them more useful and commodious, have raised
a plain building, in which there are a couple of private baths, with a bedchamber adjoining
to each, where individuals may use them both internally and externally, for a moderate expence.
These baths are paved with marble, and supplied with water each by a large brass cock, which
you can turn at pleasure. At one end of this edifice, there is an octagon, open at top, having
a bason, with a stone pillar in the middle, which discharges water from the same source, all
round, by eight small brass cocks; and hither people of all ranks come of a morning, with their
glasses, to drink the water, or wash their sores, or subject their contracted limbs to the
stream. This last operation, called the douche, however, is more effectually undergone in the
private bath, where the stream is much more powerful. The natural warmth of this water, as
nearly as I can judge from recollection, is about the same degree of temperature with that
in the Queen's Bath, at Bath in Somersetshire. It is perfectly transparent, sparkling in the
glass, light and agreeable to the taste, and may be drank without any preparation, to the quantity
of three or four pints at a time. There are many people at Aix who swallow fourteen half pint
glasses every morning, during the season, which is in the month of May, though it may be taken
with equal benefit all the year round. It has no sensible operation but by urine, an effect
which pure water would produce, if drank in the same quantity.

If we may believe those who have published their experiments, this water produces neither agitation,
cloud, or change of colour, when mixed with acids, alkalies, tincture of galls, syrup of violets,
or solution of silver. The residue, after boiling, evaporation, and filtration, affords a very
small proportion of purging salt, and calcarious earth, which last ferments with strong acids.
As I had neither hydrometer nor thermometer to ascertain the weight and warmth of this water;
nor time to procure the proper utensils, to make the preparations, and repeat the experiments
necessary to exhibit a complete analysis, I did not pretend to enter upon this process; but
contented myself with drinking, bathing, and using the douche, which perfectly answered my
expectation, having, in eight days, almost cured an ugly scorbutic tetter, which had for some
time deprived me of the use of my right hand. I observed that the water, when used externally,
left always a kind of oily appearance on the skin: that when, we boiled it at home, in an earthen
pot, the steams smelled like those of sulphur, and even affected my lungs in the same manner:
but the bath itself smelled strong of a lime-kiln. The water, after standing all night in a
bottle, yielded a remarkably vinous taste and odour, something analogous to that of dulcified
spirit of nitre. Whether the active particles consist of a volatile vitriol, or a very fine
petroleum, or a mixture of both, I shall not pretend to determine: but the best way I know
of discovering whether it is really impregnated with a vitriolic principle, too subtil and
fugitive for the usual operations of chymistry, is to place bottles, filled with wine, in the
bath, or adjacent room, which wine, if there is really a volatile acid, in any considerable
quantity, will be pricked in eight and forty hours.

Having ordered our coach to be refitted, and provided with fresh horses, as well as with another
postilion, in consequence of which improvements, I payed at the rate of a loui'dore per diem
to Lyons and back again, we departed from Aix, and the second day of our journey passing the
Durance in a boat, lay at Avignon. This river, the Druentia of the antients, is a considerable
stream, extremely rapid, which descends from the mountains, and discharges itself in the Rhone.
After violent rains it extends its channel, so as to be impassable, and often overflows the
country to a great extent. In the middle of a plain, betwixt Orgon and this river, we met the
coach in which we had travelled eighteen months before, from Lyons to Montpellier, conducted
by our old driver Joseph, who no sooner recognized my servant at a distance, by his musquetoon,
than he came running towards our carriage, and seizing my hand, even shed tears of joy. Joseph
had been travelling through Spain, and was so imbrowned by the sun, that he might have passed
for an Iroquois. I was much pleased with the marks of gratitude which the poor fellow expressed
towards his benefactors. He had some private conversation with our voiturier, whose name was
Claude, to whom he gave such a favourable character of us, as in all probability induced him
to be wonderfully obliging during the whole journey.

You know Avignon is a large city belonging to the pope. It was the Avenio Cavarum of the antients,
and changed masters several times, belonging successively to the Romans, Burgundians, Franks,
the kingdom of Arles, the counts of Provence, and the sovereigns of Naples. It was sold in
the fourteenth century, by queen Jane I. of Naples, to Pope Clement VI. for the sum of eighty
thousand florins, and since that period has continued under the dominion of the see of Rome.
Not but that when the duc de Crequi, the French ambassador, was insulted at Rome in the year
1662, the parliament of Provence passed an arret, declaring the city of Avignon, and the county
Venaiss in part of the ancient domain of Provence; and therefore reunited it to the crown of
France, which accordingly took possession; though it was afterwards restored to the Roman see
at the peace of Pisa. The pope, however, holds it by a precarious title, at the mercy of the
French king, who may one day be induced to resume it, upon payment of the original purchase-money.
As a succession of popes resided here for the space of seventy years, the city could not fail
to be adorned with a great number of magnificent churches and convents, which are richly embellished
with painting, sculpture, shrines, reliques, and tombs. Among the last, is that of the celebrated
Laura, whom Petrarch has immortalized by his poetry, and for whom Francis I. of France took
the trouble to write an epitaph. Avignon is governed by a vice-legate from the pope, and the
police of the city is regulated by the consuls.

It is a large place, situated in a fruitful plain, surrounded by high walls built of hewn stone,
which on the west side are washed by the Rhone. Here was a noble bridge over the river, but
it is now in ruins. On the other side, a branch of the Sorgue runs through part of the city.
This is the river anciently called Sulga, formed by the famous fountain of Vaucluse in this
neighbourhood, where the poet Petrarch resided. It is a charming transparent stream, abounding
with excellent trout and craw-fish. We passed over it on a stone bridge, in our way to Orange,
the Arausio Cavarum of the Romans, still distinguished by some noble monuments of antiquity.
These consist of a circus, an aqueduct, a temple, and a triumphal arch, which last was erected
in honour of Caius Marius, and Luctatius Catulus, after the great victory they obtained in
this country over the Cimbri and Teutones. It is a very magnificent edifice, adorned on all
sides with trophies and battles in basso relievo. The ornaments of the architecture, and the
sculpture, are wonderfully elegant for the time in which it was erected; and the whole is surprisingly
well preserved, considering its great antiquity. It seems to me to be as entire and perfect
as the arch of Septimius Severus at Rome. Next day we passed two very impetuous streams, the
Drome and the Isere. The first, which very much resembles the Var, we forded: but the Isere
we crossed in a boat, which as well as that upon the Durance, is managed by the traille, a
moveable or running pulley, on a rope stretched between two wooden machines erected on the
opposite sides of the river. The contrivance is simple and effectual, and the passage equally
safe and expeditious. The boatman has nothing to do, but by means of a long massy rudder, to
keep the head obliquely to the stream, the force of which pushes the boat along, the block
to which it is fixed sliding upon the rope from one side to the other. All these rivers take
their rise from the mountains, which are continued through Provence and Dauphine, and fall
into the Rhone: and all of them, when swelled by sudden rains, overflow the flat country. Although
Dauphine affords little or no oil, it produces excellent wines, particularly those of Hermitage
and Cote-roti. The first of these is sold on the spot for three livres the bottle, and the
other for two. The country likewise yields a considerable quantity of corn, and a good deal
of grass. It is well watered with streams, and agreeably shaded with wood. The weather was
pleasant, and we had a continued song of nightingales from Aix to Fontainebleau.

I cannot pretend to specify the antiquities of Vienne, antiently called Vienna Allobrogum.
It was a Roman colony, and a considerable city, which the antients spared no pains and expence
to embellish. It is still a large town, standing among several hills on the banks of the Rhone,
though all its former splendor is eclipsed, its commerce decayed, and most of its antiquities
are buried in ruins. The church of Notre Dame de la Vie was undoubtedly a temple. On the left
of the road, as you enter it, by the gate of Avignon, there is a handsome obelisk, or rather
pyramid, about thirty feet high, raised upon a vault supported by four pillars of the Tuscan
order. It is certainly a Roman work, and Montfaucon supposes it to be a tomb, as he perceived
an oblong stone jetting out from the middle of the vault, in which the ashes of the defunct
were probably contained. The story of Pontius Pilate, who is said to have ended his days in
this place, is a fable. On the seventh day of our journey from Aix, we arrived at Lyons, where
I shall take my leave of you for the present, being with great truth--Yours, etc.

LETTER XLI

BOULOGNE, June 13, 1765.

Our journey hither from Lyons produced neither accident nor adventure worth notice; but abundance
of little vexations, which may be termed the Plagues of Posting. At Lyons, where we stayed
only a few days, I found a return-coach, which I hired to Paris for six loui'dores. It was
a fine roomy carriage, elegantly furnished, and made for travelling; so strong and solid in
all its parts, that there was no danger of its being shaken to pieces by the roughness of the
road: but its weight and solidity occasioned so much friction between the wheels and the axle-tree,
that we ran the risque of being set on fire three or four times a day. Upon a just comparison
of all circumstances posting is much more easy, convenient, and reasonable in England than
in France. The English carriages, horses, harness, and roads are much better; and the postilions
more obliging and alert. The reason is plain and obvious. If I am ill-used at the post-house
in England, I can be accommodated elsewhere. The publicans on the road are sensible of this,
and therefore they vie with each other in giving satisfaction to travellers. But in France,
where the post is monopolized, the post-masters and postilions, knowing that the traveller
depends intirely upon them, are the more negligent and remiss in their duty, as well as the
more encouraged to insolence and imposition. Indeed the stranger seems to be left intirely
at the mercy of those fellows, except in large towns, where he may have recourse to the magistrate
or commanding officer. The post stands very often by itself in a lone country situation, or
in a paultry village, where the post-master is the principal inhabitant; and in such a case,
if you should be ill-treated, by being supplied with bad horses; if you should be delayed on
frivolous pretences, in order to extort money; if the postilions should drive at a waggon pace,
with a view to provoke your impatience; or should you in any shape be insulted by them or their
masters; and I know not any redress you can have, except by a formal complaint to the comptroller
of the posts, who is generally one of the ministers of state, and pays little or no regard
to any such representations. I know an English gentleman, the brother of an earl, who wrote
a letter of complaint to the Duc de Villars, governor of Provence, against the post-master
of Antibes, who had insulted and imposed upon him. The duke answered his letter, promising
to take order that the grievance should be redressed; and never thought of it after. Another
great inconvenience which attends posting in France, is that if you are retarded by any accident,
you cannot in many parts of the kingdom find a lodging, without perhaps travelling two or three
posts farther than you would choose to go, to the prejudice of your health, and even the hazard
of your life; whereas on any part of the post-road in England, you will meet with tolerable
accommodation at every stage. The best method I know of travelling with any degree of comfort,
is to allow yourself to become the dupe of imposition, and stimulate their endeavours by extraordinary
gratifications. I laid down a resolution (and kept it) to give no more than four and twenty
sols per post between the two postilions; but I am now persuaded that for three-pence a post
more, I should have been much better served, and should have performed the journey with much
greater pleasure. We met with no adventures upon the road worth reciting. The first day we
were retarded about two hours by the dutchess D--lle, and her son the duc de R--f--t, who by
virtue of an order from the minister, had anticipated all the horses at the post. They accosted
my servant, and asked if his master was a lord? He thought proper to answer in the affirmative,
upon which the duke declared that he must certainly be of French extraction, inasmuch as he
observed the lilies of France in his arms on the coach. This young nobleman spoke a little
English. He asked whence we had come; and understanding we had been in Italy, desired to know
whether the man liked France or Italy best? Upon his giving France the preference, he clapped
him on the shoulder, and said he was a lad of good taste. The dutchess asked if her son spoke
English well, and seemed mightily pleased when my man assured her he did. They were much more
free and condescending with my servant than with myself; for, though we saluted them in passing,
and were even supposed to be persons of quality, they did not open their lips, while we stood
close by them at the inn-door, till their horses were changed. They were going to Geneva; and
their equipage consisted of three coaches and six, with five domestics a-horseback. The dutchess
was a tall, thin, raw-boned woman, with her head close shaved. This delay obliged us to lie
two posts short of Macon, at a solitary auberge called Maison Blanche, which had nothing white
about it, but the name. The Lionnois is one of the most agreeable and best-cultivated countries
I ever beheld, diversified with hill, dale, wood, and water, laid out in extensive corn-fields
and rich meadows, well stocked with black cattle, and adorned with a surprising number of towns,
villages, villas, and convents, generally situated on the brows of gently swelling hills, so
that they appear to the greatest advantage. What contributes in a great measure to the beauty
of this, and the Maconnois, is the charming pastoral Soame, which from the city of Chalons
winds its silent course so smooth and gentle, that one can scarce discern which way its current
flows. It is this placid appearance that tempts so many people to bathe in it at Lions, where
a good number of individuals are drowned every summer: whereas there is no instance of any
persons thus perishing in the Rhone, the rapidity of it deterring every body from bathing in
its stream. Next night we passed at Beaune where we found nothing good but the wine, for which
we paid forty sols the bottle. At Chalons our axle-tree took fire; an accident which detained
us so long, that it was ten before we arrived at Auxerre, where we lay. In all probability
we must have lodged in the coach, had not we been content to take four horses, and pay for
six, two posts successively. The alternative was, either to proceed with four on those terms,
or stay till the other horses should come in and be refreshed. In such an emergency, I would
advise the traveller to put up with the four, and he will find the postilions so much upon
their mettle, that those stages will be performed sooner than the others in which you have
the full complement.

There was an English gentleman laid up at Auxerre with a broken arm, to whom I sent my compliments,
with offers of service; but his servant told my man that he did not choose to see any company,
and had no occasion for my service. This sort of reserve seems peculiar to the English disposition.
We only stopped to change horses at Dijon, the capital of Burgundy, which is a venerable old
city; but we passed part of a day at Sens, and visited a manufacture of that stuff we call
Manchester velvet, which is here made and dyed to great perfection, under the direction of
English workmen, who have been seduced from their own country. At Fontainebleau, we went to
see the palace, or as it is called, the castle, which though an irregular pile of building,
affords a great deal of lodging, and contains some very noble apartments, particularly the
hall of audience, with the king's and queen's chambers, upon which the ornaments of carving
and gilding are lavished with profusion rather than propriety. Here are some rich parterres
of flower-garden, and a noble orangerie, which, however, we did not greatly admire, after having
lived among the natural orange groves of Italy. Hitherto we had enjoyed fine summer weather,
and I found myself so well, that I imagined my health was intirely restored: but betwixt Fontainebleau
and Paris, we were overtaken by a black storm of rain, sleet, and hail, which seemed to reinstate
winter in all its rigour; for the cold weather continues to this day. There was no resisting
this attack. I caught cold immediately; and this was reinforced at Paris, where I stayed but
three days. The same man, (Pascal Sellier, rue Guenegaud, fauxbourg St. Germain) who owned
the coach that brought us from Lyons, supplied me with a returned berline to Boulogne, for
six loui'dores, and we came hither by easy journeys. The first night we lodged at Breteuil,
where we found an elegant inn, and very good accommodation. But the next we were forced to
take up our quarters, at the house where we had formerly passed a very disagreeable night at
Abbeville. I am now in tolerable lodging, where I shall remain a few weeks, merely for the
sake of a little repose; then I shall gladly tempt that invidious straight which still divides
you from--Yours, &c.

APPENDIX A

A Short List of Works, mainly on Travel in France and Italy during the Eighteenth Century,
referred to in connection with the Introduction.

ADDISON, JOSEPH. Remarks on Several Parts of Italy. London, 1705.

ANCONE, ALESSANDRO D'. Saggio di una bibliografia ragionata dei Viaggi in Italia. 1895.

ANDREWS, Dr. JOHN. Letters to a Young Gentleman in setting out for France. London, 1784.

ARCHENHOLTZ, J. W. VON. Tableau de l'Angleterre et de l'Italie. 3 vols. Gotha, 1788.

ARDOUIN-DUMAZET Voyage en France. Treizieme serie. La Provence Maritime. Paris, 1898.

ASTRUC, JEAN. Memoires pour servir a l'histoire de la Faculte de Medicine de Montpellier, 1767.

BABEAU, ANTOINE. Voyageurs en France. Paris, 1885.

BALLY, L. E. Souvenirs de Nice. 1860.

BARETTI, G. M. Account of the Manners and Customs of Italy. 2 vols. London, 1770.

BASTIDE, CHARLES. John Locke. Ses theories politiques en Angleterre. Paris, 1907.

BECKFORD, WILLIAM. Italy, Spain, and Portugal. By the author of "Vathek." London, 1834; new
ed. 1840.

BERCHTOLD, LEOPOLD. An Essay to direct the Inquiries of Patriotic Travellers. 2 vols. London, 1789.

BOULOGNE-SUR-MER et la region Boulonnaise. Ouvrage offert par la ville aux membres de l'Association
Francaise. 2 vols.  1899.

BRETON DE LA MARTINIERE, J. Voyage en Piemont. Paris, 1803.

BROSSES, CHARLES DE. Lettres familieres ecrites d'Italie. 1740.

BURTON, JOHN HILL. The Scot Abroad. 2 vols. Edinburgh. 1864.

CASANOVA DE SEINGALT, JACQUES. Memoires ecrits par lui-meme. 6 vols. Bruxelles, 1879.

CLEMENT, PIERRE. L'Italie en 1671. Paris, 1867. 12mo.

COOTE'S NEW GEOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY. 2 vols., folio, 1739.

CRAIG, G. DUNCAN. Mie jour; or Provencal Legend, Life, Language, and Literature. London, 1877.

DAVIS, Dr. I. B. Ancient and Modern History of Nice. London, 1807.

DEJOB, C. Madame de Stael et l'Italie. Paris, 1890.

DEMPSTER, C. L. H. The Maritime Alps and their Sea-Board. London, 1885.

DORAN, DR. JOHN. Mann and Manners at the Court of Florence. London, 1876.

DRAMARD, E. Bibliographie du Boulonnais, Calaisis, etc. Paris, 1869.

DUTENS, L. Itineraire des Routes. First edition, 1775.

EVELYN, JOHN. Diary, edited by H. B. Wheatley. 4 vols. London, 1879.

FERBER, G. G. Travels through Italy, translated by R. E. Raspe. London, 1776.

FODERE, FRANCOIS EMILE. Voyage aux Alpes Maritimes. 2 vols. Paris, 1821.

FORSYTH, JOSEPH. Remarks on Antiquities, Arts, and Letters, during an Excursion in Italy in
the year 1802 and 1803. London, 1812; 4th Edition, 1835.

GARDNER, EDMUND G. The Story of Florence. London, 1900.

GERMAIN, M. A. Histoire de la Commune de Montpellier. 3 vols. Montpellier, 1853.

GIOFFREDO, PIETRO. Storia delle Alpi Marittime . . . libri xxvi. Ed. Gazzera. 1836.

GOETHE. Autobiography, Tour in Italy, Miscellaneous Travels, and Wilhelm Meister's Travels (Bohn).

GROSLEY, PIERRE JEAN. Nouveaux Memoires sur l'Italie. London, 1764. New Observations on Italy.
Translated by Thomas Nugent. 1769.

HARE, AUGUSTUS J. C. The Rivieras. 1897.

HILLARD, G. S. Six Months in Italy. Boston, 1853; 7th edition, 1863.

JEFFERYS, THOMAS. Description of the Maritime Parts of France. With Maps. 1761.

JOANNE, ADOLPHE. Provence, Alpes Maritimes. Paris, 1881 (Bibliog., p. xxvii).

JONES (of Nayland), WILLIAM. Observations in a Journey to Paris. London, 1777.

KOTZEBUE, A. F. F. VON. Travels through Italy in 1804 and 1805. 4 vols. London, 1807.

LALANDE, J. J. DE. Voyage en Italie. 6 vols. 12mo. 1768.

LEE, EDWIN. Nice et son climat. Paris, 1863.

LENOTRE, G. Paris revolutionnaire. Paris, 1895.

LENTHERIC, CHARLES. La Provence Maritime, ancienne et moderne. Paris, 1880. Les voies antiques
de la Region du Rhone. Avignon, 1882.

LUCHAIRE, A. Hist. des Instit. Monarchiques de la France. 2 vols. 1891.

MAUGHAM, H. N. The Book of Italian Travel. London, 1903.

MERCIER, M. New Pictures of Paris. London, 1800.

METRIVIER, H. Monaco et ses Princes. 2 vols. 1862.

MILLINGEN, J. G. Sketches of Ancient and Modern Boulogne. London, 1826.

MONTAIGNE, MICHEL DE. Journal du Voyage en Italie (Querlon). Rome, 1774.

MONTESQUIEU, CHARLES DE SECONDAT, BARON DE. Voyages. Bordeaux, 1894.

MONTFAUCON. Travels of the Learned Dr. Montfaucon from Paris through Italy. London, 1712.

MOORE, DR. JOHN. A View of Society and Manners in France (2 vols., 1779), and in Italy (2 vols.,
1781)

NASH, JAMES. Guide to Nice, 1884.

NORTHALL, JOHN. Travels through Italy. London, 1766.

NUGENT, THOMAS. The Grand Tour. 3rd edition. 4 vols. 1778.

PALLIARI, LEA. Notices historiques sur le comte et la ville de Nice. Nice, 1875.

PETHERICK, E, A. Catalogue of the York Gate Library. An Index to the Literature of Geography.
London, 1881.

PIOZZI, HESTER LYNCH. Observations and Reflections made in the course of a Journey through
France, Italy, and Germany. In 2 vols. London, 1789.

RAE, JOHN. Life of Adam Smith. London, 1885.

RICHARD, L'ABBE. Description historique et critique de l'Italie. 6 vols. Paris, 1768.

RICHARDERIE, BOUCHER DE LA. Bibliotheque des voyages. Paris, 1808.

RIGBY, DR. Letters from France in 1789, edited by Lady Eastlake. London, 1880.

ROSE, WILLIAM STEWART. Letters from the North of Italy to Henry Hallam. 2 vols. 1819.

ROUX, JOSEPH. Statistique des Alpes Maritimes. 2 vols. 1863.

RUFFINI, GIOVANNI, D. Doctor Antonio; a Tale. Paris, 1855.

SAYOUS, A. Le Dix-huitieme siecle a l'etranger. 2 vols. Paris, 1861.

SECCOMBE, THOMAS. Smollett's Travels, edited with bibliographical note, etc. By Thomas Seccombe
(Works, Constable's Edition, vol. xi.). 1900.

SHARP, SAMUEL. Letters from Italy. London, 1769.

SHERLOCK, MARTIN. Letters from an English Traveller. (New English version.) 2 vols. 1802.

SMOLLETT, T. Travels through France and Italy. 2 vols. London, 1766.

SPALDING, WILLIAM. Italy and the Italian Islands. 3 vols. London, 1841.

STAEL, MME. DE. Corinne, ou l'Italie. 1807.

STARKE, MARIANA. Letters from Italy, 1792-1798. 9 vols. 1800. Travels on the Continent for
the use of Travellers. 1800, 1820, 1824, etc.

STENDHAL. Rome, Naples, and Florence, in 1817. London, 1818.

STERNE, LAURENCE. A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy. By Mr. Yorick. 2 vols. London,
1768.

STOLBERZ, COUNT F. L. ZU. Travels through Germany, Switzerland, Italy, etc. Translated by Thomas
Holcroft. 1796.

TAINE, HENRI. Voyage en Italie. 1866.

TALBOT, SIR R. Letters on the French Nation. London, 2 vols.1771, 12mo.

TEYSSEIRE, T. Monographie sur le climat de Nice. 1881.

THICKNESSE, PHILIP. Useful Hints to those who make the Tour of France in a Series of Letters.
London, 1768. A year's Journey through France, etc. 2, vols. 1777.

TISSERAND, E. Chronique de Provence . . . de la cite de Nice, etc. 2 vols. Nice, 1862.

TWINING FAMILY PAPERS. London, 1887.

VIOLLET, PAUL. Hist. des Instit. polit. et administratifs de la France. 2 vols. Paris, 1890-98.

WHATLEY, STEPHEN. The Travels and Adventures of J. Massey. Translated from the French. 1743.

WILLIAMS, C. THEODORE. The Climate of the South of France. 1869.

WINCKELMANN, J. J. Lettres familieres. Amsterdam, 1781. Reflections on the Painting and Sculpture
of the Greeks. Translated by H. Fuseli. London, 1765. Voyage en Italie de J. J. Barthelemy
. . . avec des morceaux inedits de Winckelmann. 1801.

YOUNG, ARTHUR. Travels in France during 1787, 1788, 1789, edited by M. Betham-Edwards. 1889.

YOUNG, EDWARD. Sa vie et ses oeuvres, par W. Thomas. Paris, 1901.

APPENDIX B

Short Notes on one or two unfamiliar Words which Smollett helped to domesticate in England.

Berline. Swift and Chesterfield both use this for a heavy coach. The most famous berline was
that used in the flight to Varennes. The name came from Brandenburg in the time of Frederick
William.

Bize. Smollett's spelling of bise--the cutting N.N.E. wind which makes Geneva so beautiful,
but intolerable in the winter.

Brasiere=brasero. A tray for hot charcoal used for warming rooms at Nice. Smollett practically
introduced this word. Dried olives were often used as fuel.

Calesse, calash, caleche. A low two-wheeled carriage of light construction, with a movable
folding hood; hence applied to a hood bonnet as in Mrs. Gaskell's Cranford.

Cassine. Latin casa, cassa, cassina; the Italian cassina, A small detached house in the fields,
often whitewashed and of mean appearance. Smollett uses the word as an equivalent for summer
cottage. Cf. bastide as used by Dumas. Cabane has practically replaced cassine in modern French.
See Letter XXIV.

Cambiatura. The system of changing chaises every post, common in England, but unusual abroad
except in Tuscany.

Cicisbeo. The word is used by Lady Mary Montagu in her Letters (1718) as cecisbeo. Smollett's
best account is in Letter XVII. See Introduction, p. xliii.

Conversazione. Gray uses the word for assembly in 1710, but Smollett, I believe, is about the
first Englishman to define it properly.

Corinth. This was still used as a variant of currant, though adherence to it was probably rather
pedantic on Smollett's part (cf. his use of "hough" for hoe). Boswell uses the modern form.

Corridore. This word was used by Evelyn, and the correct modern spelling given by Johnson in
1753; but Smollett as often adheres to the old form.

Douche. Italian doccia. Smollett is perhaps the first writer to explain the word and assign
to it the now familiar French form (Letter XL).

Feluca. An Arab word to denote a coasting boat, oar or sail propelled. Nelson and Marryat write
felucca. It was large enough to accommodate a post-chaise (Letter XXV).

Gabelle. Supposed to be derived from the Arabic kabala, the irksome tax on salt, from which
few provinces in France were altogether free, swept away in 1790. Smollett describes the exaction
in San Remo.

Garum. Used by Smollett for the rich fish sauce of the ancients, equivalent to a saumure, perhaps,
in modern French cookery. In the Middle Ages the word is used both for a condiment and a beverage.

Improvisatore. A performer in the Commedia delle Arte, of which Smollett gives a brief admiring
account in his description of Florence (Letter XXVII). For details of the various elements,
the doti, generici, lazzi, etc., see Carlo Gozzi.

Liqueur. First used by Pope. "An affected, contemptible expression" (Johnson).

Macaroni. "The paste called macaroni" (Letter XXVI) was seen by Smollett in the neighbourhood
of its origin near Genoa, which city formed the chief market.

Maestral. An old form of mistral, the very dry wind from the N.N.W., described by Smollett
as the coldest he ever experienced.

Patois. See Letter XXII. ad fin. Used by Evelyn in 1644.

Polenta. A meal ground from maize, which makes a good "pectoral" (Letter XXII).

Pomi carli. The most agreeable apples Smollett tasted, stated to come from the marquisate of
Final, sold by the Emperor Charles VI. to the Genoese.

Preniac. A small white wine, mentioned in Letter IV., from Boulogne, as agreeable and very cheap.

Seafarot boots. Jack-boots or wading boots, worn by a Marquis of Savoy, and removed by means
of a tug-of-war team and a rope coiled round the heel (see Letter XXVIII).

Sporcherie. Ital. sporcheria, sporcizia.

Strappado or corda. Performed by hoisting the criminal by his hands tied behind his back and
dropping him suddenly "with incredible pain" (Letter XX). See Introduction, p. xliv, and Christie,
Etienne Dolet, 1899, P. 231.

Tartane. From Italian tartana, Arabic taridha; a similar word being used in Valencia and Grand
Canary for a two-wheeled open cart. One of the commonest craft on the Mediterranean (cf. the
topo of the Adriatic). For different types see Larousse's Nouveau Dictionnaire.

Tip. To "tip the wink" is found in Addison's Tatler (No. 86), but "to tip" in the sense of
to gratify is not common before Smollett, who uses it more than once or twice in this sense
(cf. Roderick Random, chap. xiv. ad fin.)

Valanches. For avalanches (dangers from to travellers, see Letter XXXVIII).

Villeggiatura. An early adaptation by Smollett of the Italian word for country retirement (Letter
XXIX).

APPENDIX C

Currency of Savoy in the time of Smollett.

  Ten bajocci=one paolo (6d.).
  Ten paoli=one scudo (six livres or about 5s.).
  Two scudi=one zequin.
  Two zequin=one louid'or.

Afterword.--I should be ungrateful were I not to create an epilogue for the express purpose
of thanking M. Morel, H. S Spencer  Scott, Dr. Norman Moore, W. P. Courtney, G. Whale, D. S.
MacColl, Walter Sichel (there may be others), who have supplied hints for my annotations, and
I should like further, if one might inscribe such a trifle, to inscribe this to that difficult
critic, Mr. Arthur Vincent, who, when I told him I was about it, gave expression to the cordial
regret that so well hidden a treasure of our literature (as he regarded the Travels) was to
be "vulgarised."