In order to recognise these conventional declarations there are two lines of general study
to be pursued: the one is directed to the author, and seeks to discover what was the public
he addressed, for in one and the same country there are usually several different publics,
each of which has its own code of morals or propriety; the other is directed towards the public,
and seeks to determine its morals or its manners.

(6) The author endeavoured to please the public by literary artifices. He distorted facts in
order to embellish them according to his own æsthetic notions. We have therefore to look for
the ideal of the author or of his time, in order to be on our guard against passages distorted
to suit that ideal. But without special study we may calculate on the common kinds of literary
distortion. Rhetorical distortion consists in attributing to persons noble attitudes, acts,
sentiments, and, above all, words: this is a natural tendency in young boys who are beginning
to practise the art of composition, and in writers still in a semi-barbarous stage; it is the
common defect of the mediæval chroniclers.[151] Epic distortion embellishes the narrative by
adding picturesque details, speeches delivered by the persons concerned, numbers, sometimes
names of persons; it is dangerous, because the precision of the details produces an illusive
appearance of truth.[152] Dramatic distortion consists in grouping the facts in such a way
as to enhance the dramatic effect by concentrating facts, which in reality were separate, upon
a single moment, a single person, or a single group. Writing of this kind is what we call "truer
than the truth." It is the most dangerous form of distortion, the form employed by artistic
historians, by Herodotus, Tacitus, the Italians of the Renaissance. Lyrical distortion exaggerates
the intensity of the sentiments and the emotions of the author and his friends: we should remember
this when we attempt to reconstruct "the psychology" of a person.

Literary distortion does not much affect archives (though instances of it are found in most
charters of the eleventh century); but it profoundly modifies all literary texts, including
the narratives of historians. Now, the natural tendency is to trust writers more readily when
they have talent, and to admit statements with less difficulty when they are presented in good
literary form. Criticism must counteract this tendency by the application of the paradoxical
rule, that the more interesting a statement is from the artistic point of view,[153] the more
it ought to be suspected. We must distrust every narrative which is very picturesque or very
dramatic, in which the personages assume noble attitudes or manifest great intensity of feeling.

This first series of questions will yield the provisional result of enabling us to note the
statements which have a chance of being mendacious.

V. The second series of questions will be of use in determining whether there is any reason
to distrust the accuracy of a statement. Was the author in one of those situations which cause
a man to make mistakes? As in dealing with good faith, we must look for these conditions both
as affecting the document as a whole, and as affecting each of the particular statements in it.

The practice of the established sciences teaches us the conditions of an exact knowledge of
facts. There is only one scientific procedure for gaining knowledge of a fact, namely, observation;
every statement, therefore, must rest, directly or indirectly, upon an observation, and this
observation must have been made correctly.

The set of questions by the aid of which we investigate the probabilities of error may be drawn
up in the light of experience, which brings before us the most common cases of error.

(1) The author was in a situation to observe the fact, and supposed he really had observed
it; he was, however, prevented from doing so by some interior force of which he was unconscious,
an hallucination, an illusion, or a mere prejudice. It would be useless, as well as impossible,
to determine which of these agencies was at work; it is enough to ascertain whether the author
had a tendency to observe badly. It is scarcely possible in the case of a particular statement
to recognise that it was the result of an hallucination or an illusion. At the most we may
learn, either from information derived from other sources or by comparison, that an author
had a general propensity to this kind of error.

There is a better chance of recognising whether a statement was due to prejudice. In the life
or the works of an author we may find the traces of his dominant prejudices. With reference
to each of his particular statements, we ought to ask whether it is not the result of a preconceived
idea of the author on a class of men or a kind of facts. This inquiry partly coincides with
the search for motives of falsehood: interest, vanity, sympathy, and antipathy give rise to
prejudices which alter the truth in the same manner as wilful falsehood. We therefore employ
the questions already formulated for the purpose of testing good faith. But there is one to
be added. In putting forward a statement has the author been led to distort it unconsciously
by the circumstance that he was answering a question? This is the case of all statements obtained
by interrogating witnesses. Even apart from the cases where the person interrogated seeks to
please the proposer of the question by giving an answer which he thinks will be agreeable to
him, every question suggests its own answer, or at least its form, and this form is dictated
beforehand by some one unacquainted with the facts. It is therefore necessary to apply a special
criticism to every statement obtained by interrogation; we must ask what was the question put,
and what were the preconceptions to which it may have given rise in the mind of the person
interrogated.

(2) The author was badly situated for observing. The practice of the sciences teaches us what
are the conditions for correct observation. The observer ought to be placed where he can see
correctly, and should have no practical interest, no desire to obtain a particular result,
no preconceived idea about the result. He ought to record the observation immediately, in a
precise system of notation; he ought to give a precise indication of his method. These conditions,
which are insisted on in the sciences of observation, are never completely fulfilled by the
authors of documents.

It would be useless, therefore, to ask whether there have been chances of inaccuracy; there
always have been, and it is just this that distinguishes a document from an observation. It
only remains to look for the obvious causes of error in the conditions of observation: to inquire
whether the observer was in a place where he could not see or hear well, as would be the case,
for example, with a subordinate who should presume to narrate the secret deliberations of a
council of dignitaries; whether his attention was greatly distracted by the necessity for action,
as it would be on the field of battle, for example; whether he was inattentive because the
facts had little interest for him; whether he lacked the special experience or general intelligence
necessary for understanding the facts; whether he analysed his impressions badly, or confused
different events. Above all, we must ask when he wrote down what he saw or heard. This is the
most important point: the only exact observation is the one which is recorded immediately it
is made; such is the constant procedure in the established sciences; an impression committed
to writing later on is only a recollection, liable to be confused in the memory with other
recollections. Memoirs written several years after the facts, often at the very end of the
author's career, have introduced innumerable errors into history. It must be made a rule to
treat memoirs with special distrust as second-hand documents, in spite of their appearance
of being contemporary testimony.

(3) The author states facts which he could have observed, but to which he did not take the
trouble to attend. From idleness or negligence he reported details which he has merely inferred,
or even imagined at random, and which turn out to be false. This is a common source of error,
though it does not readily occur to one, and is to be suspected wherever the author was obliged
to procure information in which he took little interest, in order to fill up a blank form.
Of this kind are answers to questions put by an authority (it is enough to observe how most
official inquiries are conducted in our own day), and detailed accounts of ceremonies or public
functions. There is too strong a temptation to write the account from the programme, or in
agreement with the usual order of the proceedings. How many accounts of meetings of all kinds
have been published by reporters who were not present at them! Similar efforts of imagination
are suspected--sometimes, it is thought, clearly recognised--in the writings of mediæval chroniclers.[154]
The rule, then, will be to distrust all narratives conforming too closely to a set formula.

(4) The fact stated is of such a nature that it could not have been learnt by observation alone.
It may be a hidden fact--a private secret, for example. It may be a fact relating to a collectivity,
and applying to an extensive area or a long period of time; for example, the common act of
a whole army, a custom common to a whole people or a whole age, a statistical total obtained
by the addition of numerous items. It may be a comprehensive judgment on the character of a
man, a group, a custom, an event. Here we have to do with propositions derived from observations
by synthesis or inference: the author can only have arrived at them indirectly; he began with
data furnished by observation, and elaborated them by the logical processes of abstraction,
generalisation, reasoning, calculation. Two questions arise. Does it appear that the author
had sufficient data to work upon? Was he accurate, or the reverse, in his use of the data he had?

On the probable inaccuracies of an author, general indications may be obtained from an examination
of his writings. This examination will show us how he worked: whether he was capable of abstraction,
reasoning, generalisation, and what were the mistakes he was in the habit of making. In order
to determine the value of the data, we must criticise each statement separately; we must imagine
the conditions under which the author observed, and ask ourselves whether he was able to procure
the necessary data for his statement. This is an indispensable precaution in dealing with large
totals in statistics and descriptions of popular usages; for it is possible that the author
may have obtained the total he gives by a process of conjectural valuation (this is the ordinary
practice in stating the number of combatants or killed in a battle), or by combining subsidiary
totals, all of which were not accurate; it is possible that he may have extended to a whole
people, a whole country, a whole period, that which was true only of a small group known to
him.[155]

VI. These two first series of questions bearing on the good faith and the accuracy of the statements
in the document are based on the supposition that the author has observed the fact himself.
This is a feature common to all reports of observations in the established sciences. But in
history there is so great a dearth of direct observations, of even moderate value, that we
are obliged to turn to account documents which every other science would reject.[156] Take
any narrative at random, even if it be the work of a contemporary, it will be found that the
facts observed by the author are never more than a part of the whole number. In nearly every
document the majority of the statements do not come from the author at first hand, but are
reproductions of the statements of others. Even where a general relates a battle in which he
commanded, he does not communicate his own observations, but those of his officers; his narrative
is in a large measure a "second-hand document."[157]

In order to criticise a second-hand statement it is no longer enough to examine the conditions
under which the author of the document worked: this author is, in such a case, a mere agent
of transmission; the true author is the person who supplied him the information. The critic,
therefore, must change his ground, and ask whether the informant observed and reported correctly;
and if he too had the information from some one else (the commonest case), the chase must be
pursued from one intermediary to another, till the person is found who first launched the statement
on its career, and with regard to him the question must be asked: Was he an accurate observer?

Logically such a search is not inconceivable; ancient collections of Arab traditions give lists
of their successive guarantors. But, in practice, lack of documents nearly always prevents
us from getting as far as the observer of a fact; the observation remains anonymous. A general
question then presents itself: How are we to criticise an anonymous statement? It is not only
"anonymous documents" with which we are concerned, where the composition as a whole is the
work of an unknown author; even when the author is known, this question arises with respect
to each statement of his drawn from an unknown source.

Criticism works by reproducing the conditions under which an author wrote, and has hardly anything
to take hold of where a statement is anonymous. The only method left is to examine the general
conditions of the document. We may inquire whether there is any feature common to all the statements
of a document indicating that they all proceed from persons having the same prejudices or passions:
in this case the tradition followed by the author is biassed; the tradition followed by Herodotus
has both an Athenian bias and a Delphic bias. In respect of each fact derived from such a tradition
we must ask whether it has not been distorted by the interest, the vanity, or the prejudices
of the group concerned. We may even ignore the author, and ask whether there was anything likely
to make for or against correct observation, common to all the men of the time and country in
which the observation must have been made: for example, what means of information, and what
prejudices, had the Greeks of Herodotus' time with respect to the Scythians.

The most useful of all these general inquiries has reference to that mode of transmitting anonymous
statements which is called tradition. No second-hand statement has any value except in so far
as it reproduces its source; every addition is an alteration, and ought to be eliminated. Similarly,
all the intermediary sources are valueless except as copies of the original statement founded
directly on observation. The critic needs to know whether this transmission from hand to hand
has preserved or distorted the original statement; above all, whether the tradition embodied
in the document was written or oral. Writing fixes a statement, and ensures its being transmitted
faithfully; when a statement is communicated orally, the impression in the mind of the hearer
is apt to be modified by confusion with other impressions; in passing from one intermediary
to another the statement is modified at every step,[158] and as these modifications arise from
different causes, there is no possibility of measuring or correcting them.

Oral tradition is by its nature a process of continual alteration; hence in the established
sciences only written transmission is accepted. Historians have no avowable motive for proceeding
differently, at any rate when it is a case of establishing a particular fact. We must therefore
search documents for statements derived from oral tradition in order that we may suspect them.
We rarely have direct information as to statements being thus derived; authors who borrow from
oral tradition are not anxious to proclaim the fact.[159] There is thus only an indirect method,
and that is to ascertain that written transmission was impossible; we may then be sure that
the fact reached the author only by oral tradition. We have therefore to ask the question:
In this period and in this group of men was it customary to commit to writing facts of this
kind? If the answer is negative, the fact considered rests on oral tradition alone.

The most striking form of oral tradition is legend. It arises among groups of men with whom
the spoken word is the only means of transmission, in barbarous societies, or in classes of
little culture, such as peasants or soldiers. In this case it is the whole group of facts which
is transmitted orally and assumes the legendary form. There is a legendary period in the early
history of every people: in Greece, at Rome, among the Germanic and Slavonic races, the most
ancient memories of the people form a stratum of legend. In periods of civilisation popular
legends continue to exist in reference to events which strike the imagination of the people.[160]
Legend is exclusively oral tradition.

When a people has emerged from the legendary period and begun to commit its history to writing,
oral tradition does not come to an end, but only applies to a narrower sphere; it is now restricted
to facts which are not registered, whether because they are by their nature secret, or because
no one takes the trouble to record them, such as private actions, words, the details of events.
Thus arise anecdotes, which have been named "the legends of civilised society." Like legends
they have their origin in confused recollections, allusions, mistaken interpretations, imaginings
of all kinds which fasten upon particular persons and events.

Legends and anecdotes are at bottom mere popular beliefs, arbitrarily attached to historical
personages; they belong to folk-lore, not to history.[161] We must therefore guard against
the temptation to treat legend as an alloy of accurate facts and errors out of which it is
possible by analysis to extract grains of historical truth. A legend is a conglomerate in which
there may be some grains of truth, and which may even be capable of being analysed into its
elements; but there is no means of distinguishing the elements taken from reality from those
which are the work of imagination. To use Niebuhr's expression, a legend is "a mirage produced
by an invisible object according to an unknown law of refraction."

The crudest analytical procedure consists in rejecting those details in the legendary narrative
which appear impossible, miraculous, contradictory, or absurd, and retaining the rational residue
as historical. This is how the Protestant rationalists of the eighteenth century treated biblical
narratives. One might as well amputate the marvellous part of a fairy tale, suppress Puss in
Boots, and keep the Marquis of Carabas as an historical character. A more refined but no less
dangerous method is to compare different legends in order to deduce their common historical
basis. Grote[162] has shown, with reference to Greek tradition, that it is impossible to extract
any trustworthy information from legend by any process whatever.[163] We must make up our minds
to treat legend as a product of imagination; we may look in it for a people's conceptions,
not for the external facts in that people's history. The rule will be to reject every statement
of legendary origin; nor does this apply only to narratives in legendary form: a narrative
which has an historical appearance, but is founded on the data of legend, the opening chapters
of Thucydides for example, ought equally to be discarded.

In the case of written transmission it remains to inquire whether the author reproduced his
source without altering it. This inquiry forms part of the critical investigation of the sources,[164]
so far as it can be pursued by a comparison of texts. But when the source has disappeared we
are reduced to internal criticism. We ask, first of all, whether the author can have had exact
information, otherwise his statement is valueless. We next put to ourselves the general question:
Was the author in the habit of altering his sources, and in what manner? And in regard to each
separate second-hand statement we ask whether it has the appearance of being an exact reproduction
or an arrangement. We judge by the form: when we meet with a passage whose style is out of
harmony with the main body of the composition, we have before us a fragment of an earlier document;
the more servile the reproduction the more valuable is the passage, for it can contain no exact
information beyond what was already in the source.

VII. In spite of all these investigations, criticism never succeeds in determining the parentage
of all the statements to the extent of finding out who it was that observed, or even recorded,
each fact. In most cases the inquiry ends in leaving the statement anonymous.

We are thus confronted with a fact, observed we know not by whom nor how, recorded we know
not when nor how. No other science accepts facts which come in such a condition, without possibility
of verification, subject to incalculable chances of error. But history can turn them to account,
because it does not, like the other sciences, need a supply of facts which are difficult to
ascertain.

The notion of a fact, when we come to examine it precisely, reduces to an affirmative judgment
having reference to external reality. The operations by which we arrive at such a judgment
are more or less difficult, and the risk of error is greater or smaller according to the nature
of the realities investigated and the degree of precision with which we wish to formulate them.
Chemistry and biology need to discern facts of a delicate order, rapid movements, transient
states, and to measure them in exact figures. History can work with facts of a much coarser
kind, spread over a large extent of space or time, such as the existence of a custom, of a
man, of a group, even of a people; and these facts may be roughly expressed in vague words
conveying no idea of accurate measurement. With such easily observed facts as these to deal
with, history can afford to be much less exacting with regard to the conditions of observation.
The imperfection of the means of information is compensated by a natural faculty of being satisfied
with information which can easily be obtained.

Documents supply little else besides ill-verified facts, subject to many risks of falsehood
or error. But there are some facts in respect of which it is very difficult to lie or be mistaken.
The last series of questions which the critic should ask is intended to distinguish, in the
mass of alleged facts, those which by their nature are little subject to the risk of alteration,
and which are therefore very probably correct. We know what, in general, are the classes of
facts which enjoy this privilege; we are thus enabled to draw up a list of questions for general
use, and in applying them to any particular case we ask whether the fact in question comes
under any of the heads specified in advance.

(1) The fact is of a nature to render falsehood improbable. A man lies in order to produce
an impression, and has no motive to lie in a case where he believes that the false impression
would be of no use, or that the falsehood would be ineffectual. In order to determine whether
the author was in such a situation there are several questions to be asked.

(a) Is the fact stated manifestly prejudicial to the effect which the author wished to produce?
Does it run counter to the interest, the vanity, the sentiments, the literary tastes of the
author and his group; or to the opinions which he made a point of not offending? In such a
case there is a probability of good faith. But in the application of this criterion there is
danger; it has often been wrongly used, and in two ways. One of these is to take for a confession
what was meant for a boast, as the declaration of Charles IX. that he was responsible for the
Massacre of St. Bartholomew. Or again, we trust without examination an Athenian who speaks
ill of the Athenians, or a Protestant who accuses other Protestants. But it is quite possible
the author's notions of his interest or honour were very different from ours;[165] or he may
have wished to calumniate fellow-citizens who did not belong to his own party, or co-religionists
who did not belong to his own sect. This criterion must therefore be restricted to cases where
we know exactly what effect he wished to produce, and in what group he was mainly interested.

(b) Was the fact stated so obviously known to the public that the author, even if tempted to
falsehood, would have been restrained by the certainty of being detected? This is the case
with facts which are easy to verify, which are not remote in point of time or space, which
apply to a wide area or a long period, especially if the public had any interest in verifying
them. But the fear of detection is only an intermittent check, opposed by interest whenever
the author has any motive for deceiving. It acts unequally on different minds--strongly on
men of culture and self-control who understand their public, feebly in barbarous ages and on
passionate men.[166] This criterion, therefore, is to be restricted to cases where we know
what idea the author had of his readers, and whether he was dispassionate enough to keep them
in mind.

(c) Was the fact stated indifferent to the author, so that he had no temptation to misrepresent
it? This is the case with facts of a general kind, usages, institutions, objects, persons,
which the author mentions incidentally. A narrative, even a false one, cannot be composed exclusively
of falsehoods; the author must localise his facts, and needs to surround them with a framework
of truth. The facts which form this framework had no interest for him; at that time every one
knew them. But for us they are instructive, and we can depend on them, for the author had no
intention of deceiving us.

(2) The fact was of a kind to render error improbable. Numerous as the chances of error are,
still there are facts so "big" it is hard to be mistaken about them. We have, then, to ask
whether the alleged fact was easy to ascertain: (a) Did it cover a long period of time, so
that it must have been frequently observed? Take, for example, the case of a monument, a man,
a custom, an event which was in progress for a considerable time. (b) Did it cover a wide area,
so that many people observed it?--as, for example, a battle, a war, a custom common to a whole
people. (c) Is it expressed in such general terms that superficial observation was enough to
discover it?--as the mere existence of a man, a city, a people, a custom. Facts of this large
and general kind make up the bulk of historical knowledge.

(3) The fact was of such a nature that it would not have been stated unless it was true. A
man does not declare that he has seen something contrary to his expectations and habits of
mind unless observation has compelled him to admit it. A fact which seems very improbable to
the man who relates it has a good chance of being true. We have, then, to ask whether the fact
stated was in contradiction with the author's opinions, whether it is a phenomenon of a kind
unknown to him, an action or a custom which seems unintelligible to him; whether it is a saying
whose import transcends his intelligence, such as the sayings of Christ reported in the Gospels,
or the answers made by Joan of Arc to questions put to her in the course of her trial. But
we must guard against judging of the author's ideas by our own standards: when men who are
accustomed to believe in the marvellous speak of monsters, of miracles, of wizards, there is
nothing in these to contradict their expectations, and the criterion does not apply.

VIII. We have at last reached the end of this description of the critical operations; its length
is due to the necessity of describing successively operations which are performed simultaneously.
We will now consider how these methods are applied in practice.

If the text be one whose interpretation is debatable, the examination is divided into two stages:
the first comprises the reading of the text with a view to the determination of the meaning,
without attempting to draw any information from it; the second comprises the critical study
of the facts contained in the document. In the case of documents whose meaning is clear, we
may begin the critical examination on the first reading, reserving for separate study any individual
passages of doubtful meaning.

We begin by collecting the general information we possess about the document and the author,
with the special purpose of discovering the conditions which may have influenced the production
of the document--the epoch, the place, the purpose, the circumstances of its composition; the
author's social status, country, party, sect, family, interests, passions, prejudices, linguistic
habits, methods of work, means of information, culture, abilities, and mental defects; the
nature of the facts and the mode of their transmission. Information on all these points is
supplied by the preparatory critical investigation of authorship and sources. We now combine
the different heads, mentally applying the set of general critical questions; this should be
done at the outset, and the results impressed on the memory, for they will need to be present
to the mind during the remainder of the operations.

Thus prepared, we attack the document. As we read we mentally analyse it, destroying all the
author's combinations, discarding all his literary devices, in order to arrive at the facts,
which we formulate in simple and precise language. We thus free ourselves from the deference
imposed by artistic form, and from all submission to the author's ideas--an emancipation without
which criticism is impossible.

The document thus analysed resolves into a long series of the author's conceptions and statements
as to facts.

With regard to each statement, we ask ourselves whether there is a probability of their being
false or erroneous, or whether, on the other hand, there are exceptional chances in favour
of good faith and accuracy, working through the list of critical questions prepared for particular
cases. This list of questions must be always present to the mind. At first it may seem cumbersome,
perhaps pedantic; but as it will be applied more than a hundred times in each page of the document,
it will in the end be used unconsciously. As we read a text, all the reasons for distrust or
confidence will occur to the mind simultaneously, combined into a single impression.

Analysis and critical questioning will then have become a matter of instinct, and we shall
have acquired for ever that methodically analytical, distrustful, not too respectful turn of
mind which is often mystically called "the critical sense," but which is nothing else than
an unconscious habit of criticism.

CHAPTER VIII

THE DETERMINATION OF PARTICULAR FACTS

Critical analysis yields in the result a number of conceptions and statements, accompanied
by comments on the probability of the facts stated being accurate. It remains to examine how
we can deduce from these materials those particular historical facts which are to form the
basis of scientific knowledge. Conceptions and statements are two different kinds of results,
and must be treated by different methods.

I. Every conception which is expressed in writing or by any illustrative representation is
in itself a definite, unimpeachable fact That which is expressed must have first been present
in the mind of some one--if not in that of the author, who may have reproduced a formula he
did not understand, then in the mind of the man who originated the formula. The existence of
a conception may be learnt from a single instance and proved from a single document. Analysis
and interpretation are thus sufficient for the purpose of drawing up the complete list of those
facts which form the basis of the history of the arts, the sciences, or of doctrines.[167]
It is the task of external criticism to localise these facts by determining the epoch, the
country, the author of each conception. The duration, geographical distribution, origin, and
filiation of conceptions belong to historical synthesis. Internal criticism has nothing to
do here; the fact is taken directly from the document.

We may advance a step farther. In themselves conceptions are nothing but facts in psychology;
but imagination does not create its objects, it takes the elements of them from reality. Descriptions
of imaginary facts are constructed out of the real facts which the author has observed in his
experience. These elements of knowledge, the raw material of the imaginary description, may
be sought for and isolated. In dealing with periods and with classes of facts for which documents
are rare--antiquity, for example, and the usages of private life--the attempt has been made
to lay under contribution works of literature, epic poems, novels, plays.[168] The method is
legitimate, but only within the limits of certain restrictions which one is very apt to forget.

(1) It does not apply to social facts of a psychological order, the moral or artistic standards
of a society; the moral and æsthetic conceptions in a document give at most the individual
standards of the author; we have no right to conclude from these to the morals or the æsthetic
tastes of the age. We must at least wait till we have compared several different authors of
the same period.

(2) Descriptions even of physical facts and objects may be products of the author's imagination.
It is only the elements of them which we know to be certainly real; all that we can assert
is the separate existence of the irreducible elements, form, material, colour, number. When
the poet speaks of golden gates or silver bucklers, we cannot infer that golden gates and silver
bucklers ever existed in reality; nothing is certain beyond the separate existence of gates,
bucklers, gold, and silver. The analysis must therefore be carried to the point of distinguishing
those elements which the author must necessarily have taken from experience: objects, their
purpose, ordinary actions.

(3) The conception of an object or an action proves that it existed, but not that it was common;
the object or action may have been unique, or restricted to a very small circle; poets and
novelists are fond of taking their models from an exceptional world.

(4) The facts yielded by this method are not localised in space or time; the author may have
taken them from a time or country not his own.

All these restrictions may be summarised as follows: before drawing any inference from a work
of literature as to the state of the society in which the author lived, we should ask ourselves
what would be the worth of a similar inference as to contemporary manners drawn from a modern
novel.

With the facts yielded by conceptions we may join those indifferent facts of an obvious and
elementary character which the author has stated almost without thinking. Logically we have
no right to call them certain, for we do sometimes meet with men who make mistakes about obvious
and elementary facts, and others who lie even on indifferent matters. But such cases are so
rare that there is not much danger in admitting as certain facts of this kind which are supported
by a single document, and this is how we deal, in practice, with periods of which little is
known. The institutions of the Gauls and Germans are described from the unique texts of Cæsar
and Tacitus. Facts so easy to discover are forced upon the authors of descriptions much as
realities are forced upon poets.

II. On the other hand, a statement in a document as to an objective fact is never enough to
establish that fact. The chances of falsehood or error are so many, the conditions which gave
rise to the statement are so little known, that we cannot be sure that none of these chances
has taken effect. The critical examination provides no definitive solution; it is indispensable
if we are to avoid error, but it is insufficient to conduct us to truth.

Criticism can prove no fact; it only yields probabilities. Its end and result is to decompose
documents into statements, each labelled with an estimate of its value--worthless statement,
statement open to suspicion (strong or weak), statement probably (or, very probably) true,
statement of unknown value.

Of all these different kinds of results one only is definitive--the statement of an author
who can have had no information on the fact he states is null and void; it is to be rejected
as we reject an apocryphal document.[169] But criticism here merely destroys illusory sources
of information; it supplies nothing certain to take their place. The only sure results of criticism
are negative. All the positive results are subject to doubt; they reduce to propositions of
the form: "There are chances for or against the truth of such and such a statement." Chances
only. A statement open to suspicion may turn out to be true; a statement whose truth is probable
may, after all, be false. Instances occur continually, and we are never sufficiently well acquainted
with the conditions under which the observation was made to know whether it was made ill or well.

In order to obtain a definitive result we require a final operation. After passing through
the ordeal of criticism, statements present themselves as probable or improbable. But even
the most probable of them, taken by themselves, remain mere probabilities: to pass from them
to categorical propositions in scientific form is a step we have no right to take; a proposition
in a science is an assertion not open to debate, and that is what the statements we have before
us are not. It is a principle common to all sciences of observation not to base a scientific
conclusion on a single observation; the fact must have been corroborated by several independent
observations before it is affirmed categorically. History, with its imperfect modes of acquiring
information, has less right than any other science to claim exemption from this principle.
An historical statement is, in the most favourable case, but an indifferently made observation,
and needs other observations to corroborate it.

It is by combining observations that every science is built up: a scientific fact is a centre
on which several different observations converge.[170] Each observation is subject to chances
of error which cannot be entirely eliminated; but if several observations agree, this can hardly
be in virtue of a common error: the more probable explanation of the agreement is that the
observers have all seen the same reality and have all described it correctly. Errors are personal
and tend to diverge; it is the correct observations that agree.

Applied to history, this principle leads to a last series of operations, intermediate between
purely analytical criticism and the synthetic operations--the comparison of statements.

We begin by classifying the results yielded by critical analysis in such a way as to bring
together those statements which relate to the same fact. The operation is facilitated mechanically
by the method of slips. Either each statement has been entered on a separate slip, or else
a single slip has been assigned for each fact, and the different statements relating to it
entered upon the slip as met with in the course of reading. By bringing the statements together
we learn the extent of our information on the fact; the definitive conclusion depends on the
relation between the statements. We have, then, to study separately the different cases which
may occur.

III. Most frequently, except in contemporary history, the documents only supply a single statement
on a given fact. In such a case all the other sciences follow an invariable rule: an isolated
observation is not admitted into science; it is quoted (with the observer's name), but no conclusions
are drawn from it. Historians have no avowable motive for proceeding otherwise. When a fact
is supported by no more than the statement of a single man, however honest he may be, historians
ought not to assert it, but to do as men of science do--give the reference (Thucydides states,
Cæsar says that ...); this is all they have a right to affirm. In reality they all retain the
habit of stating facts, as was done in the middle ages, on the authority of Thucydides or of
Cæsar; many are simple enough to do so in express terms. Thus, allowing themselves to be guided
by natural credulity, unchecked by science, historians end by admitting, on the insufficient
presumption afforded by a unique document, any statement which does not happen to be contradicted
by another document. Hence the absurd consequence that history is more positive, and seems
better established in regard to those little known periods which are represented by a single
writer than in regard to facts known from thousands of documents which contradict each other.
The wars of the Medes known to Herodotus alone, the adventures of Fredegonda related by none
but Gregory of Tours, are less subject to discussion than the events of the French Revolution,
which have been described by hundreds of contemporaries. This is a discreditable state of things
which cannot be ended except by a revolution in the minds of historians.

IV. When we have several statements relating to the same fact, they may contradict each other
or they may agree. In order to be certain that they really do contradict each other, we have
to make sure that they do actually relate to the same fact. Two apparently contradictory statements
may be merely parallel; they may not relate exactly to the same moment, the same place, the
same persons, the same episodes of an event, and they may be both correct.[171] We must not,
however, infer that they confirm each other; each comes under the category of unique statements.

If the contradiction is real, at least one of the statements is false. In such cases it is
a natural tendency to seek to reconcile them by a compromise--to split the difference. This
peace-making spirit is the reverse of scientific. A says two and two make four; B says they
make five. We are not to conclude that two and two make four and a half; we must examine and
see which is right. This examination is the work of criticism. Of two contradictory statements,
it nearly always happens that one is open to suspicion; this should be rejected if the competing
statement has been judged very probably true. If both are open to suspicion, we abstain from
drawing any conclusion. We do the same if several statements open to suspicion agree together
as against a single statement which is not suspected.[172]

V. When several statements agree, it is still necessary to resist the natural tendency to believe
that the fact has been demonstrated. The first impulse is to count each document as one source
of information. We are well aware in matters of every-day life that men are apt to copy each
other, that a single narrative often serves the turn of several narrators, that several newspapers
sometimes happen to publish the same correspondence, that several reporters sometimes agree
to let one of their number do the work for all. We have, in such a case, several documents,
several statements--have we the same number of observations? Obviously not. When one statement
reproduces another, it does not constitute a new observation, and even if an observation were
to be reproduced by a hundred different authors, these hundred copies would amount to no more
than one observation. To count them as a hundred would be the same thing as to count a hundred
printed copies of the same book as a hundred different documents. But the respect paid to "historical
documents" is sometimes stronger than obvious truth. The same statement occurring in several
different documents by different authors has an illusory appearance of multiplicity; an identical
fact related in ten different documents at once gives the impression of being established by
ten agreeing observations. This impression is to be distrusted. An agreement is only conclusive
when the agreeing statements represent observations which are independent of each other. Before
we draw any conclusion from an agreement we must examine whether it is an agreement between
independent observations. Two operations are thus required.

(1) We begin by inquiring whether the statements are independent, or are reproductions of one
and the same observation. This inquiry is partly the work of that part of external criticism
which deals with the investigation of sources;[173] but that investigation only touches the
relations between written documents, and stops short when it has determined which passages
of an author are borrowed from other authors. Borrowed passages are to be rejected without
discussion. But the same work remains to be done in reference to statements which were not
committed to writing. We have to compare the statements which relate to the same fact, in order
to find out whether they proceeded originally from different observers, or at least from different
observations.

The principle is analogous to that employed in the investigation of sources. The details of
a social fact are so manifold, and there are so many different ways of looking at the same
fact, that two independent observers cannot possibly give completely coincident accounts; if
two statements present the same details in the same order, they must be derived from a common
observation; different observations are bound to diverge somewhere. We may often apply an a
priori principle: if the fact was of such a nature that it could only be observed or reported
by a single observer, then all the accounts of it must be derived from a single observation.
These principles[174] enable us to recognise many cases of different observations, and still
more numerous cases of observations being reproduced.

There remains a great number of doubtful cases. The natural tendency is to treat them as if
they were cases of independent observation. But the scientific procedure would be the exact
reverse of this: as long as the statements are not proved to be independent we have no right
to assume that their agreement is conclusive.

It is only after we have determined the relations between the different statements that we
can begin to count them and examine into their agreement. Here again we have to distrust the
first impulse; the kind of agreement which is really conclusive is not, as one would naturally
imagine, a perfect similarity between two narratives, but an occasional coincidence between
two narratives which only partially resemble each other. The natural tendency is to think that
the closer the agreement is, the greater is its demonstrative power; we ought, on the contrary,
to adopt as a rule the paradox that an agreement proves more when it is confined to a small
number of circumstances. It is at such points of coincidence between diverging statements that
we are to look for scientifically established historical facts.

(2) Before drawing any conclusions it remains to make sure whether the different observations
of the same fact are entirely independent; for it is possible that one may have influenced
another to such a degree that their agreement is inconclusive. We have to guard against the
following cases:--

(a) The different observations have been made by the same author, who has recorded them either
in the same or in different documents; special reasons must then be had before it can be assumed
that the author really made the observation afresh, and did not content himself with merely
repeating a single observation.

(b) There were several observers, but they commissioned one of their number to write a single
document. We have to ascertain whether the document merely gives the statements of the writer,
or whether the other observers checked his work.

(c) Several observers recorded their observations in different documents, but under similar
conditions. We must apply the list of critical questions in order to ascertain whether they
were not all subject to the same influences, predisposing to falsehood or error; whether, for
example, they had a common interest, a common vanity, or common prejudices.

The only observations which are certainly independent are those which are contained in different
documents, written by different authors, who belonged to different groups, and worked under
different conditions. Cases of perfectly conclusive agreement are thus rare, except in reference
to modern periods.

The possibility of proving an historical fact depends on the number of independent documents
relating to it which have been preserved, and the preservation of the documents is a matter
of chance; this explains the share which chance has in the formation of historical science.

The facts which it is possible to establish are chiefly those which cover a large extent of
space or time (sometimes called general facts), customs, doctrines, institutions, great events;
they were easier to observe than the others, and are now easier to prove. Historical method
is not, however, essentially powerless to establish facts of short duration and limited extent
(those which are called particular facts), such as a saying, a momentary act. It is enough
that several persons should have been present when the fact occurred, that they should have
recorded it, and that their writings should have come down to us. We know what were the words
which Luther uttered at the Diet of Worms; we know that he did not say what tradition puts
in his mouth. This concurrence of favourable conditions becomes more and more frequent with
the organisation of newspapers, of shorthand writers, and of depositories of documents.

In the case of antiquity and the middle ages historical knowledge is limited to general facts
by the scarcity of documents. In dealing with contemporary history it is possible to include
more and more particular facts. The general public supposes the opposite of this; it is suspicious
about contemporary facts, with reference to which it sees contradictory narratives circulating,
and believes without hesitation ancient facts, which it does not see contradicted anywhere.
Its confidence is at its greatest in respect of that history which we have not the means of
knowing, and its scepticism increases with the means of knowledge.

VI. Agreement between documents leads to conclusions which are not all of them definitive.
In order to complete and rectify our conclusions we have still to study the harmony of the facts.

Several facts which, taken in isolation, are only imperfectly proved, may confirm each other
in such a manner as to produce a collective certainty. The facts which the documents present
in isolation have sometimes been in reality sufficiently near each other to be connected. Of
this kind are the successive actions of the same man or of the same group of men, the habits
of the same group at different epochs separated by short intervals, or of similar groups at
the same epoch. It is no doubt possible that one of several analogous facts may be true and
another false; the certainty of the first does not justify the categorical assertion of the
second. But yet the harmony of several such facts, each proved imperfectly, yields a kind of
certainty; the facts do not, in the strict sense of the word, prove, but they confirm[175]
each other. The doubt which attached to each one of them disappears; we obtain that species
of certainty which is produced by the interconnection of facts. Thus the comparison of conclusions
which are separately doubtful yields a whole which is morally certain. In an itinerary of a
sovereign, the days and the places confirm each other when they harmonize so as to form a coherent
whole. An institution or a popular usage is established by the harmony of accounts, each of
which is no more than probable, relating to different times and places.

This method is a difficult one to apply. The notion of harmony is a much vaguer one than that
of agreement. We cannot assign any precise general rules for distinguishing facts which are
sufficiently connected to form a whole, the harmony of whose parts would be conclusive; nor
can we determine beforehand the duration and extent of that which may be taken to form a whole.
Facts separated by half a century of time and a hundred leagues of space may confirm each other
in such a way as to establish a popular usage (for example, among the ancient Germans); but
they would prove nothing if they were taken from a heterogeneous society subject to rapid evolution
(take, for example, French society in 1750, and again in 1800, in Alsace and in Provence).
Here we have to study the relation between the facts. This brings us to the beginnings of historical
construction; here is the transition from analytical to synthetic operations.

VII. But it remains to consider cases of discordance between facts established by documents
and other facts established by other methods. It happens sometimes that a fact obtained as
an historical conclusion is in contradiction with a body of known historical facts, or with
the sum of our knowledge of humanity founded on direct observation, or with a scientific law
established by the regular method of an established science. In the first two cases the fact
is only in conflict with history, psychology, or sociology, all imperfectly established sciences;
we then simply call the fact improbable. If it is in conflict with a true science it becomes
a miracle. What are we to do with an improbable or miraculous fact? Are we to admit it after
examination of the documents, or are we to pass on and shelve the question?

Improbability is not a scientific notion; it varies with the individual. Each person finds
improbable what he is not accustomed to see: a peasant would think the telephone much more
improbable than a ghost; a king of Siam refused to believe in the existence of ice. It is important
to know who precisely it is to whom the fact appears to be improbable. Is it to the mass who
have no scientific culture? For these, science is more improbable than miracle, physiology
than spiritualism; their notions of improbability are worthless. Is it to the man who possesses
scientific culture? If so, we have to deal with that which seems improbable to a scientific
mind, and it would be more accurate to say that the fact is contrary to the results of science--that
there is disagreement between the direct observations of men of science and the indirect testimony
of the documents.

How is this conflict to be decided? The question has no great practical interest; nearly all
the documents which relate miraculous facts are already open to suspicion on other grounds,
and would be discarded by a sound criticism. But the question of miracles has raised such passions
that it may be well to indicate how it affects the historian.[176]

The general tendency to believe in the marvellous has filled with miraculous facts the documents
of nearly every people. Historically the existence of the devil is much better proved than
that of Pisistratus: there has not been preserved a single word of a contemporary of Pisistratus
saying that he has seen him; thousands of "ocular witnesses" declare they have seen the devil;
few historical facts have been established by so great a number of independent testimonies.
However, we do not hesitate to reject the devil and to accept Pisistratus. For the existence
of the devil would be irreconcilable with the laws of all the established sciences.

For the historian the solution of the problem is obvious.[177] The observations whose results
are contained in historical documents are never of equal value with those of contemporary scientists;
we have already shown why. The indirect method of history is always inferior to the direct
methods of the sciences of observation. If its results do not harmonise with theirs, it is
history which must give way; historical science, with its imperfect means of information, cannot
claim to check, contradict, or correct the results of other sciences, but must rather use their
results to correct its own. The progress of the direct sciences sometimes modifies the results
of historical interpretation; a fact established by direct observation aids in the comprehension
and criticism of documents. Cases of stigmata and nervous anæsthesia which have been scientifically
observed have led to the admission as true of historical narratives of analogous facts, as
in the case of the stigmata of certain saints and the possessed nuns of Loudun. But history
cannot aid the progress of the direct sciences. It is kept at a distance from reality by its
indirect means of information, and must accept the laws that are established by those sciences
which come into immediate contact with reality. In order to reject one of these laws new direct
observations are necessary. Such revolutions are possible, but they must be brought about from
within. History has no power to take the initiative in them.

The solution is not so clear in the case of facts which do not harmonise with a body of historical
knowledge or with the sciences, still in the embryonic stage, which deal with man. It depends
on the opinion we form as to the value of such knowledge. We can at least lay down the practical
rule that in order to contradict history, psychology, or sociology, we must have very strong
documents, and this is a case which hardly ever occurs. In order to organise them into a body
of science it is necessary to perform a series of synthetic operations. The study of these
processes of historical construction forms the second half of Methodology.

The mode of construction cannot be regulated by the ideal plan of the science we desire to
construct; it depends on the materials we have at our disposal. It would be chimerical to formulate
a scheme which the materials would not allow us to carry out; it would be like proposing to
construct an Eiffel tower with building-stones. The fundamental defect of philosophies of history
is that they forget this practical necessity.

I. Let us begin by considering the materials of history. What is their form and their nature?
How do they differ from the materials of other sciences?

Historical facts are derived from the critical analysis of the documents. They issue from this
process in the form to which analysis has reduced them, chopped small into individual statements;
for a single sentence contains several statements: we have often accepted some and rejected
others; each of these statements represents a fact.

Historical facts have the common characteristic of having been taken from documents; but they
differ greatly among themselves.

(1) They represent phenomena of very different nature. From the same document we derive facts
bearing on handwriting, language, style, doctrines, customs, events. The Mesha inscription
furnishes facts bearing on Moabite handwriting and language, the belief in the god Chemosh,
the practices belonging to his cult, the war between the Moabites and Israel. Thus the facts
reach us pell-mell, without distinction of nature. This mixture of heterogeneous facts is one
of the characteristics which differentiate history from the other sciences. The sciences of
direct observation choose the facts to be studied, and systematically limit themselves to the
observation of facts of a single species. The documentary sciences receive the facts, already
observed, at the hands of authors of documents, who supply them in disorder. For the purpose
of remedying this disorder it is necessary to sort the facts and group them by species. But,
for the purpose of sorting them, it is necessary to know precisely what it is that constitutes
a species of historical facts; in order to group them we need a principle of classification
applicable to them. But on these two questions of capital importance historians have not as
yet succeeded in formulating precise rules.

(2) Historical facts present themselves in very different degrees of generality, from the highly
general facts which apply to a whole people and which lasted for centuries (institutions, customs,
beliefs), down to the most transient actions of a single man (a word, a movement). Here again
history differs from the sciences of direct observation, which regularly start from particular
facts and labour methodically to condense them into general facts. In order to form groups
the facts must be reduced to a common degree of generality, which makes it necessary to inquire
to what degree of generality we can and ought to reduce the different species of facts. And
this is what historians do not agree about among themselves.

(3) Historical facts are localised; each belongs to a given time and a given country. If we
suppress the time and place to which they belong, they lose their historical character; they
now contribute only to the knowledge of universal humanity, as is the case with facts of folk-lore
whose origin is unknown. This necessity of localisation is also foreign to the general sciences;
it is confined to the descriptive sciences, which deal with the geographical distribution and
with the evolution of phenomena. It obliges the historian to study separately the facts belonging
to different countries and different epochs.

(4) The facts which have been extracted from documents by critical analysis present themselves
accompanied by a critical estimate of their probability.[178] In every case where we have not
reached complete certainty, whenever the fact is merely probable--still more when it is open
to suspicion--criticism supplies the fact to the historian accompanied by a label which he
has no right to remove, and which prevents the fact from being definitively admitted into the
science. Even those facts which, after comparison with others, end by being established, are
subject to temporary exclusion, like the clinical cases which accumulate in the medical reviews
before they are considered sufficiently proved to be received as scientific facts.

Historical construction has thus to be performed with an incoherent mass of minute facts, with
detail-knowledge reduced as it were to a powder. It must utilise a heterogeneous medley of
materials, relating to different subjects and places, differing in their degree of generality
and certainty. No method of classifying them is provided by the practice of historians; history,
which began by being a form of literature, has remained the least methodical of the sciences.

II. In every science the next step after observing the facts is to formulate a series of questions
according to some methodical system;[179] every science is composed of the answers to such
a series of questions. In all the sciences of direct observation, even if the questions to
be answered have not been put down in advance, the facts which are observed suggest questions,
and require them to be formulated precisely. But historians have no discipline of this kind;
many of them are accustomed to imitate artists, and do not even think of asking themselves
what they are looking for. They take from their documents those parts which strike them, often
for purely personal reasons, and reproduce them, changing the language and adding any miscellaneous
reflections which come into their minds.

If history is not to be lost in the confusion of its materials, it must be made a rule to proceed
here, as in the other sciences, by way of question and answer.[180] But how are the questions
to be chosen in a science so different from the others? This is the fundamental problem of
method. The only way to solve it is to begin by determining the essential characteristic of
historical facts by which they are differentiated from the facts of the other sciences.

The sciences of direct observation deal with realities, taken in their entirety. The science
which borders most closely on history in respect of its subject-matter, descriptive zoology,
proceeds by the examination of a real and complete animal. This animal is first observed, as
a whole, by actual vision; it is then dissected into its parts; this dissection is analysis
in the original sense of the word ([Greek: hanalhyein], to break up into parts). It is then
possible to put the parts together again in such a way as to exhibit the structure of the whole;
this is real synthesis. It is possible to watch the real movements which are the functions
of the organs in such a way as to observe the mutual actions and reactions of the different
parts of the organism. It is possible to compare real wholes and see what are the parts in
which they resemble each other, so as to be able to classify them according to real points
of resemblance. The science is a body of objective knowledge founded on real analysis, synthesis,
and comparison; actual sight of the things studied guides the scientific researcher and dictates
the questions he is to ask himself.

In history there is nothing like this. One is apt to say that history is the "vision" of past
events, and that it proceeds by "analysis": these are two metaphors, dangerous if we suffer
ourselves to be misled by them.[181] In history we see nothing real except paper with writing
on it--and sometimes monuments or the products of art or industry. The historian has nothing
before him which he can analyse physically, nothing which he can destroy and reconstruct. "Historical
analysis" is no more real than is the vision of historical facts; it is an abstract process,
a purely intellectual operation. The analysis of a document consists in a mental search for
the items of information it contains, with the object of criticising them one by one. The analysis
of a fact consists in the process of distinguishing mentally between its different details
(the various episodes of an event, the characteristics of an institution), with the object
of paying special attention to each detail in turn; that is what is called examining the different
"aspects" of a fact,--another metaphor. The human mind is vague by nature, and spontaneously
revives only vague collective impressions; to impart clearness to these it is necessary to
ask what individual impressions go to form a given collective impression, in order that precision
may be attained by a successive consideration of them. This is an indispensable operation but
we must not exaggerate its scope. It is not an objective method which yields a knowledge of
real objects; it is only a subjective method which aims at detecting those abstract elements
which compose our impressions.[182] From the very nature of its materials history is necessarily
a subjective science. It would be illegitimate to extend to this intellectual analysis of subjective
impressions the rules which govern the real analysis of real objects.

History, then, must guard against the temptation to imitate the method of the biological sciences.
Historical facts are so different from the facts of the other sciences that their study requires
a different method.

III. Documents, the sole source of historical knowledge, give information on three categories
of facts:

(1) Living beings and material objects. Documents make us acquainted with the existence of
human beings, physical conditions, products of art and industry. In all these cases physical
facts have been brought before the author by physical perception. But we have before us nothing
but intellectual phenomena, facts seen "through the author's imagination," or, to speak accurately,
mental images representative of the author's impressions--images which we form on the analogy
of the images which were in his mind. The Temple at Jerusalem was a material object which men
saw, but we cannot see it now; all we can now do is to form a mental image of it, analogous
to that which existed in the minds of those who saw and described it.

(2) Actions of men. Documents relate the actions (and words) of men of former times. Here,
too, are physical facts which were known to the authors by sight and hearing, but which are
now for us no more than the author's recollections, subjective images which are reproduced
in our minds. When Cæsar was stabbed the dagger-thrusts were seen, the words of the murderers
were heard; we have nothing but mental images. Actions and words all have this characteristic,
that each was the action or the word of an individual; the imagination can only represent to
itself individual acts, copied from those which are brought before us by direct physical observation.
As these are the actions of men living in a society, most of them are performed simultaneously
by several individuals, or are directed to some common end. These are collective acts; but,
in the imagination as in direct observation, they always reduce to a sum of individual actions.
The "social fact," as recognised by certain sociologists, is a philosophical construction,
not an historical fact.

(3) Motives and conceptions. Human actions do not contain their own cause within themselves;
they have motives. This vague word denotes both the stimulus which occasions the performance
of an action, and the representation of the action which is in the mind of a man at the moment
when he performs it. We can imagine motives only as existing in a man's mind, and in the form
of vague interior representations, analogous to those which we have of our own inward states;
we can express them only by words, generally metaphorical. Here we have psychic facts, generally
called feelings and ideas. Documents exhibit three kinds of such facts: (a) motives and conceptions
in the authors' minds and expressed by them; (b) motives and ideas attributed by the authors
to contemporaries of theirs whose actions they have seen; (c) motives which we ourselves may
suppose to have influenced the actions related in the documents, and which we represent to
ourselves on the model of our own motives.

Physical facts, human actions (both individual and collective), psychic facts--these form the
objects of historical knowledge; they are none of them observed directly, they are all imagined.
Historians--nearly all of them unconsciously and under the impression that they are observing
realities--are occupied solely with images.

IV. How, then, is it possible to imagine facts without their being wholly imaginary? The facts,
as they exist in the historian's mind, are necessarily subjective; that is one of the reasons
given for refusing to recognise history as a science. But subjective is not a synonym of unreal.
A recollection is only an image; but it is not therefore a chimera, it is the representation
of a vanished reality. It is true that the historian who works with documents has no personal
recollections of which he can make direct use; but he forms mental images on the model of his
own recollections. He assumes that realities (objects, actions, motives), which have now disappeared,
but were formerly observed by the authors of the documents, resembled the realities of his
own day which he has himself seen and which he retains in his memory. This is the postulate
of all the documentary sciences. If former humanity did not resemble the humanity of to-day,
documents would be unintelligible. Starting from this assumed resemblance, the historian forms
a mental representation of the bygone facts of history similar to his own recollection of the
facts he has witnessed.

This operation, which is performed unconsciously, is one of the principal sources of error
in history. The things of the past which are to be pictured in imagination were not wholly
similar to the things of the present which we have seen; we have never seen a man like Cæsar
or Clovis, and we have never experienced the same mental states as they. In the established
sciences it is equally true that one man will work on facts which another has observed, and
which he must therefore represent to himself by analogy; but these facts are defined by precise
terms which indicate what invariable elements ought to appear in the image. Even in physiology
the notions which occur are sufficiently clear and fixed for the same word to evoke in the
minds of all naturalists similar images of an organ or a movement. The reason is that each
notion which has a name has been formed by a method of observation and abstraction in the course
of which all the characteristics which belong to the notion have been precisely determined
and described.

But in proportion as a body of knowledge is more nearly concerned with the invisible facts
of the mind, its notions become more confused and its language less precise. Even the most
ordinary facts of human life, social conditions, actions, motives, feelings, can only be expressed
by vague terms (king, warrior, to fight, to elect). In the case of more complex phenomena,
language is so indefinite that there is no agreement even as to the essential elements of the
phenomena. What are we to understand by a tribe, an army, an industry, a market, a revolution?
Here history shares the vagueness common to all the sciences of humanity, psychological or
social. But its indirect method of representation by mental images renders this vagueness still
more dangerous. The historical images in our minds ought, then, to reproduce at least the essential
features of the images which were in the minds of the direct observers of past facts; but the
terms in which they expressed their mental images never tell us exactly what these essential
elements were.

Facts which we did not see, described in language which does not permit us to represent them
in our minds with exactness, form the data of history. The historian, however, is obliged to
picture the facts in his imagination, and he should make it his constant endeavour to construct
his mental images out of none but correct elements, so that he may imagine the facts as he
would have seen them if he had been able to observe them personally.[183] But the formation
of a mental image requires more elements than the documents supply. Let any one endeavour to
form a mental representation of a battle or a ceremony out of the data of a narrative, however
detailed; he will see how many features he is compelled to add. This necessity becomes physically
perceptible in attempts to restore monuments in accordance with descriptions (for example,
the Temple at Jerusalem), in pictures which claim to be representations of historical scenes,
in the drawings of illustrated newspapers.

Every historical image contains a large part of fancy. The historian cannot get rid of it,
but he can take stock of the real elements which enter into his images and confine his constructions
to these; they are the elements which he has derived from the documents. If, in order to understand
the battle between Cæsar and Ariovistus, he finds it necessary to make a mental picture of
the two opposing armies, he will be careful to draw no conclusions from the general aspect
under which he imagines them; he will base his reasonings exclusively on the real details furnished
by the documents.

V. The problem of historical method may be finally stated as follows. Out of the different
elements we find in documents we form mental images. Some of these, relating entirely to physical
objects, are furnished to us by illustrative monuments, and they directly represent some of
the physical aspects of the things of the past. Most of them, however, including all the images
we form of psychic facts, are constructed on the model either of ancient representations, or,
more frequently, of the facts we have observed in our own experience. Now, the things of the
past were only partially similar to the things of the present, and it is precisely the points
of difference which make history interesting. How are we to represent to ourselves these elements
of difference for which we have no model? We have never seen a company of men resembling the
Frankish warriors, and we have never personally experienced the feelings which Clovis had when
setting out to fight against the Visigoths. How are we to make our imagination of facts of
this kind harmonise with the reality?

Practically, what happens is as follows. Immediately on the reading of a sentence in a document
an image is formed in our minds by a spontaneous operation beyond our control. This image is
based on a superficial analogy, and is, as a rule, grossly inaccurate. Any one who searches
his memory may recall the absurd manner in which he first represented to himself the persons
and scenes of the past. It is the task of history to rectify these images gradually, by eliminating
the false elements one by one, and replacing them by true ones. We have seen red-haired people,
bucklers, and Frankish battle-axes (or at least drawings of these objects); we bring these
elements together, in order to correct our first mental image of the Frankish warriors. The
historical image thus ends by becoming a combination of features borrowed from different experiences.

It is not enough to represent to oneself isolated persons, objects, and actions. Men and their
actions form part of a whole, of a society and of a process of evolution. It is, therefore,
further necessary to represent to oneself the relations between different men and different
actions (nations, governments, laws, wars).

But in order to imagine relations it is necessary to have a conception of collectivities or
wholes, and the documents only give isolated elements. Here again the historian is obliged
to use a subjective method. He imagines a society or a process of evolution, and in this imaginary
framework he disposes the elements furnished by the documents. Thus, whereas biological classification
is guided by the objective observation of physical units, historical classification can only
be effected upon subjective units existing in the imagination.

The realities of the past are things which we do not observe, and which we can only know in
virtue of their resemblance to the realities of the present. In order to realise the conditions
under which past events happened, we must observe the humanity of to-day, and look for the
conditions under which analogous events happen now. History thus becomes an application of
the descriptive sciences which deal with humanity, descriptive psychology, sociology or social
science; but all these sciences are still but imperfectly established, and their defects retard
the establishment of a science of history.

Some of the conditions of human life are, however, so necessary and so obvious that the most
superficial observation is enough to establish them. These are the conditions common to all
humanity; they have their origin either in the physiological organisation which determines
the material needs of men, or in the psychological organisation which determines their habits
in matters of conduct. These conditions can therefore be provided for by the use of a set of
general questions applicable to all the cases that may occur. It is with historical construction
as with historical criticism--the impossibility of direct observation compels the use of prearranged
sets of questions.

The human actions which form the subject-matter of history differ from age to age and from
country to country, just as men and societies have differed from each other; and, indeed, it
is the special aim of history to study these differences. If men had always had the same form
of government or spoken the same language, there would be no occasion to write the history
of forms of government or the history of languages. But these differences are comprised within
limits imposed by the general conditions of human life; they are but varieties of certain modes
of being and doing which are common to the whole of humanity, or at least to the great majority
of men. We cannot know a priori what was the mode of government or the language of an historical
people; it is the business of history to tell us. But that a given people had a language and
had a form of government is something which we are entitled to assume, before examination,
in every possible case.

By drawing up the list of the fundamental phenomena which we may expect to find in the life
of every individual and every people, we shall have suggested to us a set of general questions
which will be summary, but still sufficient to enable us to arrange the bulk of historical
facts in a certain number of natural groups, each of which will form a special branch of history.
This scheme of general classification will supply the scaffolding of historical construction.

The set of general questions will only apply to phenomena of constant occurrence: it cannot
anticipate the thousands of local or accidental events which enter into the life of an individual
or a nation; it will, therefore, not contain all the questions which the historian must answer
before he can give a complete picture of the past. The detailed study of the facts will require
the use of lists of questions entering more into detail, and differing according to the nature
of the events, the men, or the societies studied. In order to frame these lists, we begin by
setting down those questions or matters of detail which are suggested by the mere reading of
the documents; but for the purpose of arranging these questions, often indeed for the purpose
of making the list complete, recourse must be had to the systematic a priori method. Among
the classes of facts, the persons, and the societies with which we are well acquainted (either
from direct observation or from history), we look for those which resemble the facts, the persons,
or the societies which we wish to study. By analysing the scheme of arrangement used in the
scientific treatment of these familiar cases we shall learn what questions ought to be asked
in reference to the analogous cases which we propose to investigate. Of course the model must
be chosen intelligently; we must not apply to a barbarous society a list of questions framed
on the study of a civilised nation, and ask with regard to a feudal domain what agents corresponded
to each of our ministers of state--as Boutaric did in his study of the administration of Alphonse
of Poitiers.

This method of drawing up lists of questions which bases all historical construction on an
a priori procedure, would be objectionable if history really were a science of observation;
and perhaps some will think it compares very unfavourably with the a posteriori methods of
the natural sciences. But its justification is simple: it is the only method which it is possible
to employ, and the only method which, as a matter of fact, ever has been employed. The moment
an historian attempts to put in order the facts contained in documents, he constructs out of
the knowledge he has (or thinks he has) of human affairs a scheme of arrangement which is the
equivalent of a list of questions--unless, perhaps, he adopts a scheme which one of his predecessors
has constructed in a similar manner. But when this work has been performed unconsciously, the
scheme of arrangement remains incomplete and confused. Thus it is not a case of deciding whether
to work with or without an a priori set of questions--we must work with such a set in any case--the
choice merely lies between the unconscious use of an incomplete and confused set of questions
and the conscious use of a precise and complete set.

VI. We can now sketch the plan of historical construction in a way which will determine the
series of synthetic operations necessary to raise the edifice.

The critical analysis of the documents has supplied the materials--historical facts still in
a state of dispersion. We begin by imagining these facts on the model of what we suppose to
be the analogous facts of the present; by combining elements taken from reality at different
points, we endeavour to form a mental image which shall resemble as nearly as possible that
which would have been produced by direct observation of the past event. This is the first operation,
inseparable in practice from the reading of the documents. Considering that it will be enough
to have indicated its nature here,[184] we have refrained from devoting a special chapter to it.

The facts having been thus imagined, we group them according to schemes of classification devised
on the model of a body of facts which we have observed directly, and which we suppose analogous
to the body of past facts under consideration. This is the second operation; it is performed
by the aid of systematic questions, and its result is to divide the mass of historical facts
into homogeneous portions which we afterwards form into groups until the entire history of
the past has been systematically arranged according to a general scheme.

When we have arranged in this scheme the facts taken from the documents, there remain gaps
whose extent is always considerable, and is enormous for those parts of history in regard to
which documents are scanty. We endeavour to fill some of these gaps by reasoning based on the
facts which are known. This is (or should be) the third operation; it increases the sum of
historical knowledge by an application of logic.

We still possess nothing but a mass of facts placed side by side in a scheme of classification.
We have to condense them into formulæ, in order to deduce their general characteristics and
their relation to each other. This is the fourth operation; it leads to the final conclusions
of history, and crowns the work of historical construction from the scientific point of view.

But as historical knowledge, which is by nature complex and unwieldy, is exceptionally difficult
to communicate, we still have to look for the methods of expounding historical results in appropriate
form.

VII. This series of operations, easy to conceive in the mind, has never been more than imperfectly
performed. It is beset by material difficulties which theories of methodology do not take into
account, but which it would be better to face, with the purpose of discovering whether they
are after all insurmountable.

The operations of history are so numerous, from the first discovery of the document to the
final formula of the conclusion, they require such minute precautions, so great a variety of
natural gifts and acquired habits, that there is no man who can perform by himself all the
work on any one point. History is less able than any other science to dispense with the division
of labour; but there is no other science in which labour is so imperfectly divided. We find
specialists in critical scholarship writing general histories in which they let their imagination
guide them in the work of construction;[185] and, on the other hand, there are constructive
historians who use for their work materials whose value they have not tested.[186] The reason
is that the division of labour implies a common understanding among the workers, and in history
no such understanding exists. Except in the preparatory operations of external criticism, each
worker follows the guidance of his own private inspiration; he is at no pains to work on the
same lines as the others, nor does he pay any regard to the whole of which his own work is
to form a part. Thus no historian can feel perfectly safe in adopting the results of another's
work, as may be done in the established sciences, for he does not know whether these results
have been obtained by trustworthy methods. The most scrupulous go so far as to admit nothing
until they have done the work on the documents over again for themselves. This was the attitude
adopted by Fustel de Coulanges. It is barely possible to satisfy this exacting standard in
the case of little-known periods, the documents relating to which are confined to a few volumes;
and yet some have gone so far as to maintain the dogma that no historian should ever work at
second hand.[187] This, indeed, is what an historian is compelled to do when the documents
are too numerous for him to be able to read them all; but he does not say so, to avoid scandal.

It would be better to acknowledge the truth frankly. So complex a science as history, where
facts must ordinarily be accumulated by the million before it is possible to formulate conclusions,
cannot be built up on this principle of continually beginning afresh. Historical construction
is not work that can be done with documents, any more than history can be "written from manuscripts,"
and for the same reason--the shortness of time. In order that science may advance it is necessary
to combine the results of thousands of detail-researches.

But how are we to proceed in view of the fact that most researches have been conducted upon
methods which, if not defective, are at least open to suspicion? Universal confidence would
lead to error as surely as universal distrust would make progress impossible. One useful rule,
at any rate, may be stated, as follows: The works of historians should be read with the same
critical precautions which are observed in the reading of documents. A natural instinct impels
us to look principally for the conclusions, and to accept them as so much established truth;
we ought, on the contrary, to be continually applying analysis, we ought to look for the facts,
the proofs, the fragments of documents--in short, the materials. We shall be doing the author's
work over again, but we shall do it very much faster than he did, for that which takes up time
is the collection and combination of the materials; and we shall accept no conclusions but
those we consider to have been proved.

CHAPTER II

THE GROUPING OF FACTS

I. The prime necessity for the historian, when confronted with the chaos of historical facts,
is to limit the field of his researches. In the ocean of universal history what facts is he
to choose for collection? Secondly, in the mass of facts so chosen he will have to distinguish
between different groups and make subdivisions. Lastly, within each of these subdivisions he
will have to arrange the facts one by one. Thus all historical construction should begin with
the search for a principle to guide in the selection, the grouping, and the arrangement of
facts. This principle may be sought either in the external conditions of the facts or in their
intrinsic nature.

The simplest and easiest mode of classification is that which is founded on external conditions.
Every historical fact belongs to a definite time and a definite place, and relates to a definite
man or group of men: a convenient basis is thus afforded for the division and arrangement of
facts. We have the history of a period, of a country, of a nation, of a man (biography); the
ancient historians and those of the Renaissance used no other type. Within this general scheme
the subdivisions are formed on the same principle, and facts are arranged in chronological
and geographical order, or according to the groups to which they relate. As to the selection
of facts to be arranged in this scheme, for a long time it was made on no fixed principle;
historians followed their individual fancy, and chose from among the facts relating to a given
period, country, or nation all that they deemed interesting or curious. Livy and Tacitus mingle
accounts of floods, epidemics, and the birth of monsters with their narratives of wars and
revolutions.

Classification of facts by their intrinsic nature was introduced very late, and has made way
but slowly and imperfectly. It took its rise outside the domain of history, in certain branches
of study dealing with special human phenomena--language, literature, art, law, political economy,
religion; studies which began by being dogmatic, but gradually assumed an historical character.
The principle of this mode of classification is to select and group together those facts which
relate to the same species of actions; each of these groups becomes the subject-matter of a
special branch of history. The totality of facts thus comes to be arranged in compartments
which may be constructed a priori by the study of the totality of human activities; these correspond
to the set of general questions of which we have spoken in the preceding chapter.

In the following table we have attempted to provide a general scheme for the classification[188]
of historical facts, founded on the nature of the conditions and of the manifestations of activity.

I. MATERIAL CONDITIONS. (1) Study of the body: A. Anthropology (ethnology), anatomy, and physiology,
anomalies and pathological peculiarities. B. Demography (number, sex, age, births, deaths,
diseases). (2) Study of the environment: A. Natural geographical environment (orographic configuration,
climate, water, soil, flora, and fauna). B. Artificial environment, forestry (cultivation,
buildings, roads, implements, &c.).

II. INTELLECTUAL HABITS (not obligatory). (1) Language (vocabulary, syntax, phonetics, semasiology).
Handwriting. (2) Arts: A. Plastic arts (conditions of production, conceptions, methods, works).
B. Arts of expression, music, dance, literature. (3) Sciences (conditions of production, methods,
results). (4) Philosophy and Morals (conceptions, precepts, actual practice). (5) Religion
(beliefs, practices).[189]

III. MATERIAL CUSTOMS (not obligatory). (1) Material life: A. Food (materials, modes of preparing,
stimulants). B. Clothes and personal adornment. C. Dwellings and furniture. (2) Private life:
A. Employment of time (toilette, care of the person, meals). B. Social ceremonies (funerals
and marriages, festivals, etiquette). C. Amusements (modes of exercise and hunting, games and
spectacles, social meetings, travelling).

IV. ECONOMIC CUSTOMS. (1) Production: A. Agriculture and stock-breeding. B. Exploitation of
minerals. (2) Transformation, Transport and industries:[190] technical processes, division
of labour, means of communication. (3) Commerce: exchange and sale, credit. (4) Distribution:
system of property, transmission, contracts, profit-sharing.

V. SOCIAL INSTITUTIONS. (1) The family: A. Constitution, authority, condition of women and
children. B. Economic organisation.[191] Family property, succession. (2) Education and instruction
(aim, methods, personnel). (3) Social classes (principle of division, rules regulating intercourse).

VI. PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS (obligatory). (1) Political institutions: A. Sovereign (personnel,
procedure). B. Administration, services (war, justice, finance, &c.). C. Elected authorities,
assemblies, electoral bodies (powers, procedure). (2) Ecclesiastical institutions (the same
divisions). (3) International institutions: A. Diplomacy. B. War (usages of war and military
arts). C. Private law and commerce.

This grouping of facts according to their nature is combined with the system of grouping by
time and place; we thus obtain chronological, geographical, or, national sections in each branch.
The history of a species of activity (language, painting, government) subdivides into the history
of periods, countries, and nations (history of the ancient Greek language, history of the government
of France in the nineteenth century).

The same principles aid in determining the order in which the facts are to be arranged. The
necessity of presenting facts one after another obliges us to adopt some methodical rule of
succession. We may describe successively either all the facts which relate to a given place,
or those which relate to a given country, or all the facts of a given species. All historical
matter can be distributed in three different kinds of order: chronological order, geographical
order, that kind of order which is governed by the nature of actions and is generally called
logical order. It is impossible to use any of these orders exclusively: in every chronological
exposition there necessarily occur geographical or logical cross-divisions, transitions from
one country to another, or from one species of facts to a different species, and conversely.
But it is always necessary to decide which shall be the main order into which the others enter
as subdivisions.

It is a delicate matter to choose between these three orders; our choice will be decided by
different reasons according to the subject, and according to the public for whom we are working.
That is to say, it will depend on the method of exposition; it would take up too much space
to give the theory of it.

II. When we come to the selection of historical facts for classification and arrangement, a
question is raised which has been disputed with considerable warmth.

Every human action is by its nature an individual transient phenomenon which is confined to
a definite time and a definite place. Strictly speaking, every fact is unique. But every action
of a man resembles other actions of the same man, or of other members of the same group, and
often to so great a degree that the whole group of actions receives a common name, in which
their individuality is lost. These groups of similar actions, which the human mind is irresistibly
impelled to form, are called habits, usages, institutions. These are merely constructions of
the mind, but they are imposed so forcibly on our intellect that many of them must be recognised
and constantly employed; habits are collective facts, possessing extension in time and space.
Historical facts may therefore be considered under two different aspects: we may regard either
the individual, particular, and transient elements in them, or we may look for what is collective,
general, and durable. According to the first conception, history is a continuous narrative
of the incidents which have happened among men in the past; according to the second, it is
the picture of the successive habits of humanity.

On this subject there has been a contest, especially in Germany, between the partisans of the
history of civilisation (Kulturgeschichte)[192] and the historians who remain faithful to ancient
tradition; in France we have had the struggle between the history of institutions, manners,
and ideas, and political history, contemptuously nicknamed "battle-history" by its opponents.

This opposition is explained by the difference between the documents which the workers on either
side were accustomed to deal with. The historians, principally occupied with political history,
read of individual and transient acts of rulers in which it was difficult to detect any common
feature. In the special histories, on the contrary (except that of literature), the documents
exhibit none but general facts, a linguistic form, a religious rite, a rule of law; an effort
of imagination is required to picture the man who pronounced the word, who performed the rite,
or who applied the rule in practice.

There is no need to take sides in this controversy. Historical construction in its completeness
implies the study of facts under both aspects. The representation of men's habits of thought,
life, and action is obviously an important part of history. And yet, supposing we had brought
together all the acts of all individuals for the purpose of extracting what is common to them,
there would still remain a residue which we should have no right to reject, for it is the distinctively
historical element--the circumstance that a particular action was the action of a given man,
or group of men, at a given moment. In a scheme of classification which should only recognise
the general facts of political life there would be no place for the victory of Pharsalia or
the taking of the Bastille--accidental and transient facts, but without which the history of
Roman and French institutions would be unintelligible.

History is thus obliged to combine with the study of general facts the study of certain particular
facts. It has a mixed character, fluctuating between a science of generalities and a narrative
of adventures. The difficulty of classing this hybrid under one of the categories of human
thought has often been expressed by the childish question: Is history a science or an art?

III. The general table given above may be used for the determination of all the species of
habits (usages or institutions) of which the history may be written. But before applying this
general scheme to the study of any particular group of habits, language, religion, private
usages, or political institutions, there is always a preliminary question to be answered: Whose
were the habits we are about to study? They were common to a great number of individuals; and
a collection of individuals with the same habits is what we call a group. The first condition,
then, for the study of a habit is the determination of the group which has practised it. At
this point we must beware of the first impulse; it leads to a negligence which may ruin the
whole of our historical construction.

The natural tendency is to conceive the human group on the model of the zoological species--as
a body of men who all resemble each other. We take a group united by a very obvious common
characteristic, a nation united by a common official government (Romans, English, French),
a people speaking the same language (Greeks, ancient Germans), and we proceed as if all the
members of this group resembled each other at every point and had the same usages.

As a matter of fact, no real group, not even a centralised society, is a homogeneous whole.
For a great part of human activity--language, art, science, religion, economic interests--the
group is constantly fluctuating. What are we to understand by the group of those who speak
Greek, the Christian group, the group of modern science? And even those groups to which some
precision is given by an official organisation, States and Churches, are but superficial unities
composed of heterogeneous elements. The English nation comprises Welsh, Scotch, and Irish;
the Catholic Church is composed of adherents scattered over the whole world, and differing
in everything but religion. There is no group whose members have the same habits in every respect.
The same man is at the same time a member of several groups, and in each group he has companions
who differ from those he has in the others. A French Canadian belongs to the British Empire,
the Catholic Church, the group of French-speaking people. Thus the different groups overlap
each other in a way that makes it impossible to divide humanity into sharply distinct societies
existing side by side.

In historical documents we find the contemporary names of groups, many of them resting on mere
superficial resemblances. It must be made a rule not to adopt popular notions of this kind
without criticising them. We must accurately determine the nature and extent of the group,
asking: Of what men was it composed? What bond united them? What habits had they in common?
In what species of activity did they differ? Not till after such criticism shall we be able
to tell what are the habits in respect of which the group in question may be used as a basis
of study. In order to study intellectual habits (language, religion, art, science) we shall
not take a political unit, the nation, but the group consisting of those who shared the habit
in question. In order to study economic facts we shall choose a group united by a common economic
interest; we shall reserve the political group for the study of social and political facts,
and we shall discard race[193] altogether.

Even in those points in which a group is homogeneous it is not entirely so; it is divided into
sub-groups, the members of which differ in secondary habits; a language is divided into dialects,
a religion into sects, a nation into provinces. Conversely, one group resembles other groups
in a way that justifies its being regarded as contiguous with them; in a general classification
we may recognise "families" of languages, arts, and peoples. We have, then, to ask: How was
a given group sub-divided? Of what larger group did it form a part?

It then becomes possible to study methodically a given habit, or even the totality of the habits
belonging to a given time and place, by following the table given above. The operation presents
no difficulties of method in the case of those species of facts which appear as individual
and voluntary habits--language, art, sciences, conceptions, private usages; here it is enough
to ascertain in what each habit consisted. It is merely necessary to distinguish carefully
between those who originated or maintained habits (artists, the learned, philosophers, introducers
of fashions) and the mass who accepted them.

But when we come to social or political habits (what we call institutions), we meet with new
conditions which produce an inevitable illusion. The members of the same social or political
group do not merely habitually perform similar actions; they influence each other by reciprocal
actions, they command, coerce, pay each other. Habits here take the form of relations between
the different members; when they are of old standing, formulated in official rules, imposed
by a visible authority, maintained by a special set of persons, they occupy so important a
place in life, that, to the persons under their influence, they appear as external realities.
The men, too, who specialise in an occupation or a function which becomes the dominating habit
of their lives, appear as grouped in distinct categories (classes, corporations, churches,
governments); and these categories are taken for real existences, or at least for organs of
various functions in a real existence, namely, society. We follow the analogy of an animal's
body so far as to describe the "structure" and the "functions" of a society, even its "anatomy"
and "physiology." These are pure metaphors. By the structure of a society we mean the rules
and the customs by which occupations and enjoyments are distributed among its members; by its
functions we mean the habitual actions by which each man enters into relations with the others.
It may be convenient to use these terms, but it should be remembered that the underlying reality
is composed entirely of habits and customs.

The study of institutions, however, obliges us to ask special questions about persons and their
functions. In respect of social and economic institutions we have to ask what was the principle
of the division of labour and of the division into classes, what were the professions and classes,
how were they recruited, what were the relations between the members of the different professions
and classes. In respect of political institutions, which are sanctioned by obligatory rules
and a visible authority, two new series of questions arise. (1) Who were the persons invested
with authority? When authority is divided we have to study the division of functions, to analyse
the personnel of government into its different groups (supreme and subordinate, central and
local), and to distinguish each of the special bodies. In respect of each class of men concerned
in the government we shall ask: How were they recruited? What was their official authority?
What were their real powers? (2) What were the official rules? What was their form (custom,
orders, law, precedent)? What was their content (rules of law)? What was the mode of application
(procedure)? And, above all, how did the rules differ from the practice (abuse of power, exploitation,
conflicts between executive agents, non-observance of rules)?

After the determination of all the facts which constitute a society, it remains to find the
place which this society occupies among the total number of the societies contemporary with
it. Here we enter upon the study of international institutions, intellectual, economic, and
political (diplomacy and the usages of war); the same questions apply as in the study of political
institutions. A study should also be made of the habits common to several societies, and of
those relations which do not assume an official form. This is one of the least advanced parts
of historical construction.

IV. The outcome of all this labour is a tabulated view of human life at a given moment; it
gives us the knowledge of a state of society (in German, Zustand). But history is not limited
to the study of simultaneous facts, taken in a state of rest, to what we may call the statics
of society. It also studies the states of society at different moments, and discovers the differences
between these states. The habits of men and the material conditions under which they live change
from epoch to epoch; even when they appear to be constant they do not remain unaltered in every
respect. There is therefore occasion to investigate these changes; thus arises the study of
successive facts.

Of these changes the most interesting for the work of historical construction are those which
tend in a common direction,[194] so that in virtue of a series of gradual differentiations
a usage or a state of society is transformed into a different usage or state, or, to speak
without metaphor, cases where the men of a given period practise a habit very different from
that of their predecessors without any abrupt change having taken place. This is evolution.

Evolution occurs in all human habits. In order to investigate it, therefore, it is enough to
turn once more to the series of questions which we used in constructing a tabulated view of
society. In respect of each of the facts, conditions, usages, persons invested with authority,
official rules, the question is to be asked: What was the evolution of this fact?

This study will involve several operations: (1) the determination of the fact whose evolution
is to be studied; (2) the fixing of the duration of the time during which the evolution took
place (the period should be so chosen that while the transformation is obvious, there yet remains
a connecting link between the initial and the final condition); (3) the establishing of the
different stages of the evolution; (4) the investigation of the means by which it was brought
about.

V. A series, even a complete series, of all the states of all societies and of all their evolutions
would not be enough to exhaust the subject-matter of history. There remains a number of unique
facts which we cannot pass over, because they explain the origin of certain states of society,
and form the starting-points of evolutions. How could we study the institutions or the evolution
of France if we ignored the conquest of Gaul by Cæsar and the invasion of the Barbarians?

This necessity of studying unique facts has caused it to be said that history cannot be a science,
for every science has for its object that which is general. History is here in the same situation
as cosmography, geology, the science of animal species: it is not the abstract knowledge of
the general relations between facts, it is a study which aims at explaining reality. Now, reality
exists but once. There has been but a single evolution of the world, of animal life, of humanity.
In each of these evolutions the successive facts have not been the product of abstract laws,
but of the concurrence, at each moment, of several circumstances of different nature. This
concurrence, sometimes called chance, has produced a series of accidents which have determined
the particular course taken by evolution.[195] Evolution can only be understood by the study
of these accidents; history is here on the same footing as geology or palæontology.

Thus scientific history may go back to the accidents, or events, which traditional history
collected for literary reasons, because they struck the imagination, and employ them for the
study of evolution. We may thus look for the facts which have influenced the evolution of each
one of the habits of humanity. Each event will be arranged under its date in the evolution
which it is supposed to have influenced. It will then suffice to bring together the events
of every kind, and to arrange them in chronological and geographical order, to have a representation
of historical evolution as a whole.

Then, over and above the special histories in which the facts are arranged under purely abstract
categories (art, religion, private life, political institutions), we shall have constructed
a concrete general history, which will connect together the various special histories by exhibiting
the main stream of evolution which has dominated all the special evolutions. None of the species
of facts which we study apart (religion, art, law, constitutions) forms a closed world within
which evolution takes place in obedience to a kind of internal impulse, as specialists are
prone to imagine. The evolution of a usage or of an institution (language, religion, church,
state) is only a metaphor; a usage is an abstraction, abstractions do not evolve; it is only
existences that evolve, in the strict sense of the word.[196] When a change takes place in
a usage, this means that the men who practise it have changed. Now, men are not built in water-tight
compartments (religious, juridical, economic) within which phenomena can occur in isolation;
an event which modifies the condition of a man changes his habits in a great variety of respects.
The invasion of the Barbarians influenced alike language, private life, and political institutions.
We cannot, therefore, understand evolution by confining ourselves to a special branch of history;
the specialist, even for the purpose of writing the complete history of his own branch, must
look beyond the confines of his own subject into the field of general events. It is the merit
of Taine to have asserted, with reference to English literature, that literary evolution depends,
not on literary events, but on facts of a general character.

The general history of individual facts was developed before the special histories. It contains
the residue of facts which have not found a place in the special histories, and has been reduced
in extent by the formation and detachment of special branches. As general facts are principally
of a political nature, and as it is more difficult to organise these into a special branch,
general history has in practice been confounded with political history (Staatengeschichte).[197]
Thus political historians have been led to make themselves the champions of general history,
and to retain in their constructions all the general facts (migrations of peoples, religious
reforms, inventions, and discoveries) necessary for the understanding of political evolution.

In order to construct general history it is necessary to look for all the facts which, because
they have produced changes, can explain either the state of a society or one of its evolutions.
We must search for them among all classes of facts, displacements of population, artistic,
scientific, religious, technical innovations, changes in the personnel of government, revolutions,
wars, discoveries of countries.

That which is important is that the fact should have had a decisive influence. We must therefore
resist the natural temptation to divide facts into great and small. It goes against the grain
to admit that great effects may have had small causes, that Cleopatra's nose may have made
a difference to the Roman Empire. This repugnance is of a metaphysical order; it springs from
a preconceived opinion on the government of the world. In all the sciences which deal with
an evolution we find individual facts which serve as starting-points for series of vast transformations.
A drove of horses brought by the Spanish has stocked the whole of South America. In a flood
a branch of a tree may dam a current and transform the aspect of a valley.

In human evolution we meet with great transformations which have no intelligible cause beyond
an individual accident.[198] In the sixteenth century England changed its religion three times
on the death of a sovereign (Henry VIII., Edward VI., Mary). Importance not to be measured
by the initial fact, but by the facts which resulted from it. We must not, therefore, deny
a priori the action of individuals and discard individual facts. We must examine whether a
given individual was in a position to make his influence strongly felt. There are two cases
in which we may assume that he was: (1) when his action served as an example to a mass of men
and created a tradition, a case frequent in art, science, religion, and technical matters;
(2) when he had power to issue commands and direct the actions of a mass of men, as is the
case with the heads of a state, an army, or a church. The episodes in a man's life may thus
become important facts.

Accordingly, in the scheme of historical classification a place should be assigned for persons
and events.

VI. In every study of successive facts it is necessary to provide a number of halting-places,
to distinguish beginnings and ends, in order that chronological divisions may be made in the
enormous mass of facts. These divisions are periods; the use of them is as old as history.
We need them, not only in general history, but in the special branches of history as well,
whenever we study an extent of time long enough for an evolution to be sensible. It is by means
of events that we fix their limits.

In the special branches of history, after having decided what changes of habits are to be considered
as reaching deepest, we adopt them as marking dates in the evolution; we then inquire what
event produced them. The event which led to the formation or the change of a habit becomes
the beginning or the end of a period. Sometimes these boundary events are of the same species
as the facts whose evolution we are studying--literary facts in the history of literature,
political facts in political history. But more often they belong to a different species, and
the special historian is obliged to borrow them from general history.

In general history the periods should be divided according to the evolution of several species
of phenomena; we look for events which mark an epoch simultaneously in several branches (the
Invasion of the Barbarians, the Reformation, the French Revolution). We may thus construct
periods which are common to several branches of evolution, whose beginning and whose end are
each marked by a single event. It is thus that the traditional division of universal history
into periods has been effected. The sub-periods are obtained by the same process, by taking
for limits events which have produced consequences of secondary importance.

The periods which are thus constructed according to the events are of unequal duration. We
must not be troubled by this want of symmetry; a period ought not to be a fixed number of years,
but the time occupied by a distinct phase of evolution. Now, evolution is not a regular movement;
sometimes a long series of years passes without notable change, then come moments of rapid
transformation. On this difference Saint-Simon has founded a distinction between organic periods
(of slow change) and critical periods (of rapid change).

CHAPTER III

CONSTRUCTIVE REASONING

I. The historical facts supplied by documents are never enough to fill all the blanks in such
schemes of classification and arrangement as we have been considering. There are many questions
to which no direct answer is given by the documents; many features are lacking without which
the complete picture of the various states of society, of evolutions and events, cannot be
given. We are irresistibly impelled to endeavour to fill up these gaps.

In the sciences of direct observation, when a fact is missing from a series, it is sought for
by a new observation. In history, where we have not this resource, we seek to extend our knowledge
by the help of reasoning. Starting from facts known to us from the documents, we endeavour
to reach new facts by inference. If the reasoning be correct, this method of acquiring knowledge
is legitimate.

But experience shows that of all the methods of acquiring historical knowledge, reasoning is
the most difficult to employ correctly, and the one which has introduced the most serious errors.
It should not be used without the safeguard of a number of precautions calculated to keep the
danger continually before the mind.

(1) Reasoning should never be combined with the analysis of a document. The reader who allows
himself to introduce into a text what the author has not expressly put there ends by making
him say what he never intended to say.[199]

(2) Facts obtained by the direct examination of documents should never be confused with the
results obtained by reasoning. When we state a fact known to us by reasoning only, we must
not allow it to be supposed that we have found it in the documents; we must disclose the method
by which we have obtained it.

(3) Unconscious reasoning must never be allowed; there are too many chances of error. It will
be enough to make a point of putting every argument into logical form; in the case of bad reasoning
the major premiss is generally monstrous to an appalling degree.

(4) If the reasoning leaves the least doubt, no attempt must be made to draw a conclusion;
the point treated must be left in the conjectural stage, clearly distinguished from the definitively
established results.

(5) It is not permissible to return to a conjecture and endeavour to transform it into a certainty.
Here the first impression is most likely to be right. By reflection upon a conjecture we familiarise
ourselves with it, and end by thinking it better established; while the truth is, we are merely
more accustomed to it. This is a frequent mishap with those who devote themselves to long meditation
on a small number of texts.

There are two ways of employing reasoning, one negative, the other positive; we shall examine
them separately.

II. The negative mode of reasoning, called also the "argument from silence," is based on the
absence of indications with regard to a fact.[200] From the circumstance of the fact not being
mentioned in any document it is inferred that there was no such fact; the argument is applied
to all kinds of subjects, usages of every description, evolutions, events. It rests on a feeling
which in ordinary life is expressed by saying: "If it were true, we should have heard of it;"
it implies a general proposition which may be formulated thus: "If an alleged event really
had occurred, there would be some document in existence in which it would be referred to."

In order that such reasoning should be justified it would be necessary that every fact should
have been observed and recorded in writing, and that all the records should have been preserved.
Now, the greater part of the documents which have been written have been lost, and the greater
part of the events which happen are not recorded in writing. In the majority of cases the argument
would be invalid. It must therefore be restricted to the cases where the conditions implied
in it have been fulfilled.

(1) It is necessary not only that there should be now no documents in existence which mention
the fact in question, but that there should never have been any. If the documents are lost
we can conclude nothing. The argument from silence ought, therefore, to be employed the more
rarely the greater the number of documents that have been lost; it is of much less use in ancient
history than in dealing with the nineteenth century. Some, desiring to free themselves from
this restriction, are tempted to assume that the lost documents contained nothing interesting;
if they were lost, say they, the reason was that they were not worth preserving. But the truth
is, every manuscript is at the mercy of the least accident; its preservation or destruction
is a matter of pure chance.

(2) The fact must have been of such a kind that it could not fail to be observed and recorded.
Because a fact has not been recorded it does not follow that it has not been observed. Any
one who is concerned in an organisation for the collection of a particular species of facts
knows how much commoner those facts are than people think, and how many cases pass unnoticed
or without leaving any written trace. It is so with earthquakes, cases of hydrophobia, whales
stranded on the shore. Besides, many facts, even those which are well known to those who are
contemporary with them, are not recorded, because the official authorities prevent their publication;
this is what happens to the secret acts of governments and the complaints of the lower classes.
This silence, which proves nothing, greatly impresses unreflecting historians; it is the origin
of the widespread sophism of the "good old times." No document relates any abuse of power by
officials or any complaints made by peasants; therefore, everything was regular and nobody
was suffering. Before we argue from silence we should ask: Might not this fact have failed
to be recorded in any of the documents we possess? That which is conclusive is not the absence
of any document on a given fact, but silence as to the fact in a document in which it would
naturally be mentioned.

The negative argument is thus limited to a few clearly defined cases. (1) The author of the
document in which the fact is not mentioned had the intention of systematically recording all
the facts of the same class, and must have been acquainted with all of them. (Tacitus sought
to enumerate the peoples of Germany; the Notitia dignitatum mentioned all the provinces of
the Empire; the absence from these lists of a people or a province proves that it did not then
exist.) (2) The fact, if it was such, must have affected the author's imagination so forcibly
as necessarily to enter into his conceptions. (If there had been regular assemblies of the
Frankish people, Gregory of Tours could not have conceived and described the life of the Frankish
kings without mentioning them.)

III. The positive mode of reasoning begins with a fact established by the documents, and infers
some other fact which the documents do not mention. It is an application of the fundamental
principle of history, the analogy between present and past humanity. In the present we observe
that the facts of humanity are connected together. Given one fact, another fact accompanies
it, either because the first is the cause of the second, or because the second is the cause
of the first, or because both are effects of a common cause. We assume that in the past similar
facts were connected in a similar manner, and this assumption is corroborated by the direct
study of the past in the documents. From a given fact, therefore, which we find in the past,
we may infer the existence of the other facts which were connected with it.

This reasoning applies to facts of all kinds, usages, transformations, individual incidents.
We may begin with any known fact and endeavour to infer unknown facts from it. Now the facts
of humanity, having a common centre, man, are all connected together, not merely facts of the
same class, but facts belonging to the most widely different classes. There are connections,
not merely between the different facts relating to art, to religion, to manners, to politics,
but between the facts of religion on the one hand and the facts of art, of politics, and of
manners on the other; thus from a fact of one species we may infer facts of all the other species.

To examine those connections between facts on which reasonings may be founded would mean tabulating
all the known relations between the facts of humanity, that is, giving a full account of all
the empirical laws of social life. Such a labour would provide matter for a whole book.[201]
Here we shall content ourselves with indicating the general rules governing this kind of reasoning,
and the precautions to be taken against the most common errors.

The argument rests on two propositions: one is general, and is derived from experience of human
affairs; the other is particular, and is derived from the documents. In practice, we begin
with the particular proposition, the historical fact: Salamis bears a Phoenician name. We then
look for a general proposition: the language of the name of a city is the language of the people
which founded it. And we conclude: Salamis, bearing a Phoenician name, was founded by the Phoenicians.

In order that the conclusion may be certain, two conditions are necessary.

(1) The general proposition must be accurately true; the two facts which it declares to be
connected must be connected in such a way that the one is never found without the other. If
this condition were completely satisfied we should have a law, in the scientific sense of the
word; but in dealing with the facts of humanity--apart from those physical conditions whose
laws are established by the regular sciences--we can only work with empirical laws obtained
by rough determinations of general facts which are not analysed in such a manner as to educe
their true causes. These empirical laws are approximately true only when they relate to a numerous
body of facts, for we can never quite know how far each is necessary to produce the result.
The proposition relating to the language of the name of a city does not go enough into detail
to be always true. Petersburg is a German name, Syracuse in America bears a Greek name. Other
conditions must be fulfilled before we can be sure that the name is connected with the nationality
of the founders. We should, therefore, only employ such propositions as go into detail.

(2) In order to employ a general proposition which goes into detail, we must have a detailed
knowledge of the particular fact; for it is not till after this fact has been established that
we look for an empirical general law on which to found an argument. We shall begin, then, by
studying the particular conditions of the case (the situation of Salamis, the habits of the
Greeks and Phoenicians); we shall not work on a single detail, but on an assemblage of details.

Thus, in historical reasoning it is necessary to have (1) an accurate general proposition;
(2) a detailed knowledge of a past fact. It is bad workmanship to assume a false general proposition--to
suppose, for example, as Augustin Thierry did, that every aristocracy had its origin in a conquest.
It is bad workmanship, again, to found an argument on an isolated detail (the name of a city).
The nature of these errors indicates the precautions to be taken.

(1) The spontaneous tendency is to take as a basis of reasoning those "common-sense truths"
which form nearly the whole of our knowledge of social life. Now, the greater part of these
are to some extent false, for the science of social life is still imperfect. And the chief
danger in them lies in the circumstance that we use them unconsciously. The safest precaution
will be always to formulate the supposed law on which we propose to base an argument. In every
instance where such and such a fact occurs, it is certain that such and such another fact occurs
also. If this proposition is obviously false, we shall at once see it to be so; if it is too
general, we shall inquire what new conditions may be introduced to make it accurate.

(2) A second spontaneous impulse leads us to draw consequences from isolated facts, even of
the slightest kind (or rather, the idea of each fact awakens in us, by association, the idea
of other facts). This is the natural procedure in the history of literature. Each circumstance
in the life of an author supplies material for reasoning; we construct by conjecture all the
influences which could have acted upon him, and we assume that they did act upon him. All the
branches of history which study a single species of facts, isolated from every other species
(language, arts, private law, religion), are exposed to the same danger, because they deal
with fragments of human life, not with comprehensive collections of phenomena. But few conclusions
are firmly established except those which rest on a comprehensive body of data. We do not make
a diagnosis from a single symptom, but from a number of concurrent symptoms. The precaution
to be taken will be to avoid working with an isolated detail or an abstract fact. We must have
before our minds actual men, as affected by the principal conditions under which they lived.

We must be prepared to realise but rarely the conditions of a certain inference; we are too
little acquainted with the laws of social life, and too seldom know the precise details of
an historical fact. Thus most of our reasonings will only afford presumptions, not certainties.
But it is with reasonings as with documents.[202] When several presumptions all point in the
same direction they confirm each other, and end by producing a legitimate certitude. History
fills up some of its gaps by an accumulation of reasonings. Doubts remain as to the Phoenician
origin of various Greek cities, but there is no doubt about the presence of the Phoenicians
in Greece.

CHAPTER IV

THE CONSTRUCTION OF GENERAL FORMULÆ

I. Suppose we had methodically arranged all the historical facts established by the analysis
of documents, or by reasoning; we should possess a systematised inventory of the whole of history,
and the work of construction would be complete. Ought history to stop at this point? The question
is warmly debated, and we cannot avoid giving an answer, for it is a question with a practical
bearing.

Critical scholars, who are accustomed to collect all the facts relating to their speciality,
without any personal preference, are inclined to regard a complete, accurate, and objective
collection of facts as the prime requisite. All historical facts have an equal right to a place
in history; to retain some as being of greater importance, and reject the rest as comparatively
unimportant, would be to introduce the subjective element of choice, variable according to
individual fancy; history cannot sacrifice a single fact.

Against this very reasonable view there is nothing to be urged except a material difficulty;
this, however, is enough, for it is the practical motive of all the sciences: we mean the impossibility
of acquiring or communicating complete knowledge. A body of history in which no fact was sacrificed
would have to contain all the actions, all the thoughts, all the adventures of all men at all
times. It would form a total which no one could possibly make himself master of, not for want
of materials, but for want of time. This, indeed, applies, as things are, to certain voluminous
collections of documents: the collected reports of parliamentary debates contain the whole
history of the various assemblies, but to learn their history from these sources would require
more than a lifetime.

Every science must take into consideration the practical conditions of life, at least so far
as it claims to be a real science, a science which it is possible to know. Any ideal which
ends by making knowledge impossible impedes the establishment of the science.

Science is a saving of time and labour, effected by a process which provides a rapid means
of learning and understanding facts; it consists in the slow collection of a quantity of details
and their condensation into portable and incontrovertible formulæ. History, which is more encumbered
with details than any other science, has the choice between two alternatives: to be complete
and unknowable, or to be knowable and incomplete. All the other sciences have chosen the second
alternative; they abridge and they condense, preferring to take the risk of mutilating and
arbitrarily combining the facts to the certainty of being unable either to understand or communicate
them. Scholars have preferred to confine themselves to the periods of ancient history, where
chance, which has destroyed nearly all the sources of information, has freed them from the
responsibility of choosing between facts by depriving them of nearly all the means of knowing them.

History, in order to constitute itself a science, must elaborate the raw material of facts.
It must condense them into manageable form by means of descriptive formulæ, qualitative and
quantitative. It must search for those connections between facts which form the ultimate conclusions
of every science.

II. The facts of humanity, with their complex and varied character, cannot be reduced like
chemical facts to a few simple formulæ. Like the other sciences which deal with life, history
needs descriptive formulæ in order to express the nature of the different phenomena.

In order to be manageable, a formula must be short; in order to give an exact idea of the facts,
it must be precise. Now, in the knowledge of human affairs, precision can only be obtained
by attention to characteristic details, for these alone enable us to understand how one fact
differed from others, and what there was in it peculiar to itself. There is thus a conflict
between the need of brevity, which leads us to look for concrete formulæ, and the necessity
of being precise, which requires us to adopt detailed formulæ. Formulæ which are too short
make science vague and illusory, formulæ which are too long encumber it and make it useless.
This dilemma can only be evaded by a perpetual compromise, the principle of which is to compress
the facts by omitting all that is not necessary for the purpose of representing them to the
mind, and to stop at the point where omission would suppress some characteristic feature.

This operation, which is difficult in itself, is still further complicated by the state in
which the facts which are to be condensed into formulæ present themselves. According to the
nature of the documents from which they are derived, they come to us in all the different degrees
of precision: from the detailed narrative which relates the smallest episodes (the battle of
Waterloo) down to the barest mention in a couple of words (the victory of the Austrasians at
Testry). On different facts of the same kind we possess an amount of details which is infinitely
variable according as the documents give us a complete description or a mere mention. How are
we to organise into a common whole, items of knowledge which differ so widely in point of precision?
When facts are known to us from a vague word of general import, we cannot reduce them to a
less degree of generality and a greater degree of precision; we do not know the details. If
we add them conjecturally we shall produce an historical novel. This is what Augustin Thierry
did in the case of his Récits mérovingiens. When facts are known in detail, it is always easy
to reduce them to a greater degree of generality by suppressing characteristic details; this
is what is done by the authors of abridgements. But the result of this procedure would be to
reduce history to a mass of vague generalities, uniform for the whole of time except for the
proper names and the dates. It would be a dangerous method of introducing symmetry, to bring
all facts to a common degree of generality by levelling them all to the condition of those
which are the most imperfectly known. In those cases, therefore, where the documents give details,
our descriptive formulæ should always retain the characteristic features of the facts.

In order to construct these formulæ we must return to the set of questions which we employed
in grouping the facts, we must answer each question, and compare the answers. We shall then
combine them into as condensed and as precise a formula as possible, taking care to keep a
fixed sense for every word. This may appear to be a matter of style, but what we have in view
here is not merely a principle of exposition, necessary for the sake of being intelligible
to the reader, it is a precaution which the author ought to take on his own account. The facts
of society are of an elusive nature, and for the purpose of seizing and expressing them, fixed
and precise language is an indispensable instrument; no historian is complete without good
language.

It will be well to make the greatest possible use of concrete and descriptive terms: their
meaning is always clear. It will be prudent to designate collective groups only by collective,
not by abstract names (royalty, State, democracy, Reformation, Revolution), and to avoid personifying
abstractions. We think we are simply using metaphors, and then we are carried away by the force
of the words. Certainly abstract terms have something very seductive about them, they give
a scientific appearance to a proposition. But it is only an appearance, behind which scholasticism
is apt to be concealed; the word, having no concrete meaning, becomes a purely verbal notion
(like the soporific virtue of which Molière speaks). As long as our notions on social phenomena
have not been reduced to truly scientific formulæ, the most scientific course will be to express
them in terms of every-day experience.

In order to construct a formula, we should know beforehand what elements ought to enter into
it. We must here make a distinction between general facts (habits and evolutions) and unique
facts (events).

III. General facts consist in actions which are often repeated, and are common to a number
of men. We have to determine their character, extent, and duration.

In order to formulate their character, we combine all the features which constitute a fact
(habit, institution) and distinguish it from all others. We unite under the same formula all
the individual cases which greatly resemble each other, by neglecting the individual differences.

This concentration is performed without effort in the case of habits which have to do with
forms (language, handwriting), and in the case of all intellectual habits; those who practised
these habits have already given them expression in formulæ, which we have only to collect.
The same holds of these institutions which are sanctioned by expressly formulated rules (regulations,
laws, private statutes). Accordingly the special branches of history were the first to yield
methodical formulæ. On the other hand, these special branches do not go beyond superficial
and conventional facts, they do not reach the real actions and thoughts of men: in language
they deal with written words, not the real pronunciation; in religion with official dogmas
and rites, not with the real beliefs of the mass of the people; in morals with avowed precepts,
not with the effective ideals; in institutions with official rules, not with the real practice.
On all these subjects the knowledge of conventional forms must some day be supplemented by
a parallel study of the real habits.

It is much more difficult to embrace in a single formula a habit which is composed of real
actions, as is the case with economic phenomena, private life, politics; for we have to find
in the different actions those common characteristics which constitute the habit; or, if this
work has already been done in the documents, and condensed into a formula (the most common
case), we must criticise this formula in order to make sure that it really represents a homogeneous
habit.

The same difficulty occurs in constructing the formula for a group; we have to describe the
characteristic common to all the members of the group and to find a collective name which shall
exactly designate it. In documents there is no lack of names of groups; but, as they have their
origin in usage, many of them correspond but ill to the real groups; we have to criticise these
names to fix their precise meaning, sometimes to correct their application.

This first operation should yield formulæ expressive of the conventional and real characteristics
of all the habits of the different groups.

In order to fix the precise extent of a habit we shall seek the most distant points where it
appears (this will give the area of distribution), and the region where it is most common (the
centre). Sometimes the operation takes the form of a map (for example the map of the tumuli
and the dolmens of France). It will also be necessary to indicate the groups of men who practised
each habit, and the sub-groups in which it was most pronounced.

The formula should also indicate the duration of the habit. We shall look for the extreme cases,
the first and the last appearance of the form, the doctrine, the usage, the institution, the
group. But it will not be enough to note the two isolated cases, the earliest and the most
recent; we must ascertain the period in which it was really active.

The formula of an evolution ought to indicate the successive variations in the habit, giving
in each case precise limits of extent and duration. Then, by comparing all the variations,
it will be possible to determine the general course of the evolution. The general formula will
indicate when and where the evolution began and ended, and the nature of the change which it
effected. All evolutions present common features which enable them to be divided into stages.
Every habit (usage or institution) begins by being the spontaneous act of several individuals;
when others imitate them it becomes a usage. Similarly social functions are in the first instance
performed by persons who undertake them spontaneously, when these persons are recognised by
others they acquire an official status. This is the first stage; individual initiative followed
by general imitation and recognition. The usage becomes traditional and is transformed into
an obligatory custom or rule; the persons acquire a permanent status and are invested with
powers of material or moral constraint. This is the stage of tradition and authority; very
often it is the last stage, and continues till the society is destroyed. The usage is relaxed,
the rules are violated, the persons in authority cease to be obeyed; this is the stage of revolt
and decomposition. Finally, in certain civilised societies, the rule is criticised, the persons
in authority are censured, by the action of a part of the subjects a rational change is effected
in the composition of the governing body, which is subjected to supervision; this is the stage
of reform and of checks.

IV. In the case of unique facts we cannot expect to bring several together under a common formula,
for the nature of these facts is to occur but once. However, it is imperatively necessary to
abridge, we cannot preserve all the acts of all the members of an assembly or of all the officers
of a state. Many individuals and many facts must be sacrificed.

How are we to choose? Personal tastes and patriotism give rise to preferences for congenial
characters and for local events; but the only principle of selection which can be employed
by all historians in common is that which is based on the part played in the evolution of human
affairs. We ought to retain those persons and those events which have visibly influenced the
course of an evolution. We may recognise them by our inability to describe the evolution without
mentioning them. The men are those who have modified the state of a society either by the creation
or the introduction of a habit (artists, men of science, inventors, founders, apostles), or
as directors of a movement, heads of states, of parties, of armies. The events are those which
have brought about changes in the habits or the state of societies.

In order to construct a formula descriptive of an historical person, we must take particulars
from his biography and his habits. From his biography we shall take those facts which determined
his career, formed his habits, and occasioned the actions by which he influenced society. These
comprise physiological conditions (physique, temperament, state of health),[203] the educational
influences, the social conditions to which he was subject. The history of literature has accustomed
us to researches of this kind.

Among the habits of a man it is necessary to determine his fundamental conceptions relating
to the class of facts in which his influence was felt, his conception of life, his knowledge,
his predominating tastes, his habitual occupations, his principles of conduct. From these details,
in which there is infinite variety, an impression is formed of the man's "character," and the
collection of these characteristic features constitutes his "portrait," or, to use a favourite
phrase of the day, his "psychology." This exercise, which is still held in great esteem, dates
from the time when history was still a branch of literature; it is doubtful whether it can
ever become a scientific process. There is perhaps no sure method of summing up the character
of a man, even in his lifetime, still less when we can only know him indirectly through the
medium of documents. The controversies relative to the interpretation of the conduct of Alexander
are a good example of this uncertainty.

If, however, we take the risk of seeking a formula to describe a character, there are two natural
temptations against which we must guard: (I) We must not construct the formula out of the person's
assertions in regard to himself. (2) The study of imaginary personages (dramas and novels)
has accustomed us to seek a logical connection between the various sentiments and the various
acts of a man; a character, in literature, is constructed logically. This search for coherency
must not be transferred to the study of real men. We are less likely to do so in the case of
those whom we observe in their lifetime, because we see too many characteristics in them which
could not enter into a coherent formula. But the absence of documents, by suppressing those
characteristics which would have checked us, encourages us to arrange the very small number
of those which remain in the form of a stage-character. This is why the great men of antiquity
seem to us to have been much more logical than our contemporaries are.

How are we to construct a formula for an event? The imperative need of simplification causes
us to combine under a single name an enormous mass of minute facts which are perceived in the
lump, and between which we vaguely feel that there is a connection (a battle, a war, a reform).
The facts which are thus combined are such facts as have conduced to a common result. That
is how the common notion of an event arises, and there is no more scientific conception to
put in its place. Facts, then, are to be grouped according to their consequences; those which
have had no visible consequences disappear, the others are fused into a certain number of aggregates
which we call events.

In order to describe an event, it is necessary to give precise indications (I) of its character,
(2) of its extent.

(I) By the character of an event we mean the features which distinguish it from every other
event, not merely the external conditions of date and place, but the manner in which it occurred,
and its immediate causes. The following are the items of information which the formula should
contain. One or more men, in such and such mental states (conceptions, motives of the action),
working under such and such material conditions (locality, instrument), performed such and
such actions, which had for their result such and such a modification. For the determination
of the motives of the actions, the only method is to compare the actions, firstly, with the
declarations of those who performed them; secondly, with the interpretation of those who witnessed
their performance. There is often a doubt remaining: this is the field of party polemics; every
one attributes noble motives to the actions of his own party and discreditable motives to those
of the opposite party. But actions described without any indication of motive would be unintelligible.

(2) The extension of the event will be indicated both in space (the place where it happened,
and the region in which its immediate effects were felt) and in time, the moment when its realisation
began, and the moment when the result was brought about.

V. Descriptive formulæ relating to characters, being merely qualitative, only give an abstract
idea of the facts; in order to realise the place they occupied in reality, quantity is necessary.
It is not a matter of indifference whether a given usage was practised by a hundred men or
by millions.

For the purpose of introducing quantity into formulæ we have at our disposal several methods,
of various degrees of imperfection, which help us to attain the end in view with various degrees
of precision. Arranged in descending order of precision they are as follows:--

(1) Measurement is a perfectly scientific procedure, for equal numbers represent absolutely
identical values. But a common unit is necessary, and that can only be had for time and for
physical phenomena (lengths, surfaces, weights). Figures relating to production and sums of
money are the essential elements in the statement of economic and financial facts. But facts
of the psychological order remain inaccessible to measurement.

(2) Enumeration, which is the process employed in statistics,[204] is applicable to all the
facts which have in common a definite characteristic which can be made use of for counting
them. The facts which are thus comprehended under a single number do not all belong to the
same species, they may have in common but a single characteristic, abstract (crime, lawsuit)
or conventional (workman, lodging); the figures merely indicate the number of cases in which
a given characteristic is met with; they do not represent a homogeneous whole. A natural tendency
is to confuse number with measurement, and to suppose that facts are known with scientific
precision because it has been possible to apply number to them; this is an illusion to be guarded
against, we must not take the figures which give the number of a population or an army for
the measure of its importance.[205] Still, enumeration yields results which are necessary for
the construction of formulæ relating to groups. But the operation is restricted to those cases
in which it is possible to know all the units of a given species lying within given limits,
for it is performed by first ticking off, then adding. Before undertaking a retrospective enumeration,
therefore, it will be well to make sure that the documents are complete enough to exhibit all
the units which are to be enumerated. As to figures given in documents, they are to be distrusted.

(3) Valuation is a kind of incomplete enumeration applying to a portion of the field, and made
on the supposition that the same proportions hold good through the whole of the field. It is
an expedient to which, in history, it is often necessary to have recourse when documents are
unequally abundant for the different divisions of the subject. The result is open to doubt,
unless we are sure that the portion to which enumeration was applied was exactly similar to
the remainder.

(4) Sampling is a process of enumeration restricted to a few units taken at different points
in the field of investigation; we calculate the proportion of cases (say 90 per cent.) where
a given characteristic occurs, we assume that the same proportion holds throughout, and if
there are several categories we obtain the proportion between them. In history this procedure
is applicable to facts of every kind, for the purpose of determining either the proportion
between the different forms or usages which occur within a given region or period, or the proportion
which obtains, within a heterogeneous group, between members belonging to different classes.
This procedure gives us an approximate idea of the frequency of facts and the proportion between
the different elements of a society; it can even show what species of facts are most commonly
found together, and are therefore probably connected. But in order that the method may be employed
correctly it is necessary that the samples should be representative of the whole, and not of
a part which might possibly be exceptional in character. They should therefore be chosen at
very different points, and under very different conditions, in order that the exceptions may
compensate each other. It is not enough to take them at points which are distant from each
other; for example, on the different frontiers of a country, for the very circumstance of situation
on a frontier is an exceptional condition. Verification may be had by following the methods
by which anthropologists obtain averages.

(5) Generalisation is only an instinctive process of simplification. As soon as we perceive
a certain characteristic in an object, we extend this characteristic to all other objects which
at all resemble it. In all human concerns, where the facts are always complex, we make generalisations
unconsciously; we attribute to a whole people the habits of a few individuals, or those of
the first group forming part of the people which comes within our knowledge; we extend to a
whole period habits which are ascertained to have existed at a given moment. This is the most
active of all the causes of historical error, and one whose influence is felt in every department,
in the study of usages and of institutions, even in the appreciation of the morality of a people.[206]
Generalisation rests on a vague idea that all facts which are contiguous to each other, or
which resemble each other in some point, are similar at all points. It is an unconscious and
ill-performed process of sampling. It may therefore be made correct by being subjected to the
conditions of a well-performed process of sampling. We must examine the cases on which we propose
to found a generalisation and ask ourselves. What right have we to generalise? That is, what
reason have we for assuming that the characteristic discovered in these cases will occur in
the remaining thousands of cases? that the cases chosen resemble the average? The only valid
reason would be that these cases are representative of the whole. We are thus brought back
to the process of methodical sampling.

The right method of conducting the operation is as follows: (1) We must fix the precise limits
of the field within which we intend to generalise (that is, to assume the similarity of all
the cases), we must determine the country, the group, the class, the period as to which we
are to generalise. Care must be taken not to make the field too large by confusing a part with
the whole (a Greek or Germanic people with the whole Greek or Germanic race). (2) We must make
sure that the facts lying within the field resemble each other in the points on which we wish
to generalise, and therefore we have to distrust those vague names under which are comprehended
groups of very different character (Christians, French, Aryans, Romans). (3) We must make sure
that the facts from which we propose to generalise are representative samples, that they really
belong to the field of investigation, for it does happen sometimes that men or facts are taken
as specimens of one group when they really belong to another. Nor must they be exceptional,
as is to be presumed in all cases when the conditions are exceptional; authors of documents
tend to record by preference those facts which surprise them, hence exceptional cases occupy
in documents a space which is out of proportion to their real number; this is one of the chief
sources of error. (4) The number of samples necessary to support a generalisation is the greater
the less ground there is for supposing a resemblance between all the cases occurring within
the field of investigation. A small number may suffice in treating of points in which men tend
to bear a strong resemblance to each other, either by imitation and convention (language, rites,
ceremonies), or from the influence of custom and obligatory regulations (social institutions,
political institutions in countries where the authorities are obeyed). A large number is requisite
for facts where individual initiative plays a more important part (art, science, morality),
and sometimes, as in respect of private conduct, all generalisation is as a rule impossible.

VI. Descriptive formulæ are in no science the final result of the work. It still remains to
group the facts in such a way as to bring out their collective import, it still remains to
search for their mutual relations; these are the general conclusions. History, by reason of
the imperfection of its mode of acquiring knowledge, needs, in addition, a preliminary operation
for determining the bearing of the knowledge acquired.[207]

The work of criticism has supplied us with nothing but a number of isolated remarks on the
value of the knowledge which the documents have permitted us to acquire. These must be combined.
We shall therefore take a whole group of facts entered under a common heading--a particular
class of facts, a country, a period, an event--and we shall summarise the results yielded by
the criticism of particular facts so as to obtain a general formula. We shall have to take
into consideration: (1) the extent, (2) the value of our knowledge.

(1) We shall ask ourselves what are the blanks left by the documents. By working through the
scheme used for the grouping of facts it is easy to discover what are the classes of facts
on which we lack information. In the case of evolution, we notice which links are missing in
the chain of successive modifications; in the case of events, what episodes, what groups of
actors are still unknown to us; what facts enter or disappear from the field of our knowledge
without our being able to trace their beginning or end. We ought to construct, mentally at
any rate, a tabulated scheme of the points on which we are ignorant, in order to keep before
our minds the distance separating the knowledge we have from a perfect knowledge.

(2) The value of our knowledge depends on the value of our documents. Criticism has given us
indications on this point in each separate case, these indications, so far as relating to a
given body of facts, must be summarised under a few heads. Does our knowledge come originally
from direct observation, from written tradition, or from oral tradition? Do we possess several
traditions of different bias, or a single tradition? Do we possess documents of different classes
or of one single class? Is our information vague or precise, detailed or summary, literary
or positive, official or confidential?

The natural tendency is to forget, in construction, the results yielded by criticism, to forget
the incompleteness of our knowledge and the elements of doubt in it. An eager desire to increase
to the greatest possible extent the amount of our information and the number of our conclusions
impels us to seek emancipation from all negative restrictions. We thus run a great risk of
using fragmentary and suspicious sources of information for the purpose of forming general
impressions, just as if we were in possession of a complete record. It is easy to forget the
existence of those facts which the documents do not describe (economic facts, slaves in antiquity),
it is easy to exaggerate the space occupied by facts which are known to us (Greek art, Roman
inscriptions, mediæval monasteries). We instinctively estimate the importance of facts by the
number of the documents which mention them. We forget the peculiar character of the documents,
and, when they all have a common origin, we forget that they have all subjected the facts to
the same distortions, and that their community of origin renders verification impossible; we
submissively reproduce the bias of the tradition (Roman, orthodox, aristocratic).

In order to resist these natural tendencies, it is enough to pass in review the whole body
of facts and the whole body of tradition, before attempting to draw any general conclusion.

VII. Descriptive formulæ give the particular character of each small group of facts. In order
to obtain a general conclusion, we must combine these detailed results into a general formula.
We must not compare together isolated details or secondary characteristics,[208] but groups
of facts which resemble each other in a whole set of characteristics.

We thus form an aggregate (of institutions, of groups of men, of events). Following the method
indicated above, we determine its distinguishing characteristics, its extent, its duration,
its quantity or importance.

As we form groups of greater and greater generality we drop, with each new degree of generality,
those characteristics which vary, and retain those which are common to all the members of the
new group. We must stop at the point where nothing is left except the characteristics common
to the whole of humanity. The result is the condensation into a single formula of the general
character of an order of facts, of a language, a religion, an art, an economic organisation,
a society, a government, a complex event (such as the Invasion or the Reformation).

As long as these comprehensive formulæ remain isolated the conclusion is incomplete. And as
it is no longer possible to fuse them into higher generalisations, we feel the need of comparing
them for the purpose of classification. This classification may be attempted by two methods.

(1) We may compare together similar categories of special facts, language, religions, arts,
governments, taking them from the whole of humanity, and classifying together those which most
resemble each other. We obtain families of languages, religions, and governments, which we
may again classify and arrange among themselves. This is an abstract kind of classification;
it isolates one species of facts from all the others, and thus renounces all claim to exhibit
causes. It has the advantage of being rapidly performed and of yielding a technical vocabulary
which is useful for designating facts.

(2) We may compare real groups of real individuals, we may take societies which figure in history
and classify them according to their similarities. This is a concrete classification analogous
to that of zoology, in which, not functions, but whole animals are classified. It is true that
the groups are less clearly marked than in zoology; nor is there a general agreement as to
the characteristics in respect of which we are to look for resemblances. Are we to choose the
economic or the political organisation of the groups, or their intellectual condition? No principle
of choice has as yet become obligatory.

History has not yet succeeded in establishing a scientific system of comprehensive classification.
Possibly human groups are not sufficiently homogeneous to furnish a solid basis of comparison,
and not sharply enough divided to be treated as comparable units.

VIII. The study of the relations between simultaneous facts consists in a search for the connections
between all the facts of different species which occur in a given society. We have a vague
consciousness that the different habits which are separated by abstraction and ranged under
different categories (art, religion, political institutions), are not isolated in reality,
that they have common characteristics, and that they are closely enough connected for a change
in one of them to bring about a change in another. This is a fundamental idea of the Esprit
des Lois of Montesquieu. This bond of connection, sometimes called consensus, has received
the name of Zusammenhang from the German school. From this conception has arisen the theory
of the Volksgeist (the mind of a people), a counterfeit of which has within the last few years
been introduced into France under the name of "âme nationale." This conception is also at the
bottom of the theory regarding the soul of society which Lamprecht has expounded.

After the rejection of these mystical conceptions there remains a vague but incontrovertible
fact, the "solidarity" which exists between the different habits of one and the same people.
In order to study it with precision it would be necessary to analyse it, and a connecting bond
cannot be analysed. It is thus quite natural that this part of social science should have remained
a refuge for mystery and obscurity.

By the comparison of different societies which resemble or differ from each other in a given
department (religion or government), with the object of discovering in what other departments
they resemble or differ from each other, it is possible that interesting empirical results
might be obtained. But, in order to explain the consensus, it is necessary to work back to
the facts which have produced it, the common causes of the various habits. We are thus obliged
to undertake the investigation of causes, and we enter the province of what is called philosophical
history, because it investigates what was formerly called the philosophy of facts--that is
to say, their permanent relations.

IX. The necessity of rising above the simple determination of facts in order to explain them
by their causes, a necessity which has governed the development of all the sciences, has at
length been felt even in the study of history. Hence have arisen systematic philosophies of
history, and attempts to discover historical laws and causes. We cannot here enter into a critical
examination of these attempts, which the nineteenth century has produced in so great number;
we shall merely indicate what are the ways in which the problem has been attacked, and what
obstacles have prevented a scientific solution from being reached.

The most natural method of explanation consists in the assumption that a transcendental cause,
Providence, guides the whole course of events towards an end which is known to God.[209] This
explanation can be but a metaphysical doctrine, crowning the work of science; for the distinguishing
feature of science is that it only studies efficient causes. The historian is not called upon
to investigate the first cause or final causes any more than the chemist or the naturalist.
And, in fact, few writers on history nowadays stop to discuss the theory of Providence in its
theological form.

But the tendency to explain historical facts by transcendental causes survives in more modern
theories in which metaphysic is disguised under scientific forms. The historians of the nineteenth
century have been so strongly influenced by their philosophical education that most of them,
sometimes unconsciously, introduce metaphysical formulæ into the construction of history. It
will be enough to enumerate these systems, and point out their metaphysical character, so that
reflecting historians may be warned to distrust them.

The theory of the rational character of history rests on the notion that every real historical
fact is at the same time "rational"--that is, in conformity with an intelligible comprehensive
plan; ordinarily it is tacitly assumed that every social fact has its raison d'être in the
development of society--that is, that it ends by turning to the advantage of society; hence
the cause of every institution is sought for in the social need it was originally meant to
supply.[210] This is the fundamental idea of Hegelianism, if not with Hegel, at least with
the historians who have been his disciples (Ranke, Mommsen, Droysen, in France Cousin, Taine,
and Michelet). This is a lay disguise of the old theological theory of final causes which assumes
the existence of a Providence occupied in guiding humanity in the direction of its interests.
This is a consoling, but not a scientific a priori hypothesis; for the observation of historical
facts does not indicate that things have always happened in the most rational way, or in the
way most advantageous to men, nor that institutions have had any other cause than the interest
of those who established them; the facts, indeed, point rather to the opposite conclusion.

From the same metaphysical source has also sprung the Hegelian theory of the ideas which are
successively realised in history through the medium of successive peoples. This theory, which
has been popularised in France by Cousin and Michelet, has had its day, even in Germany, but
it has been revived, especially in Germany, in the form of the historical mission (Beruf) which
is attributed to peoples and persons. It will here be enough to observe that the very metaphors
of "idea" and "mission" imply a transcendental anthropomorphic cause.

From the same optimistic conception of a rational guidance of the world is derived the theory
of the continuous and necessary progress of humanity. Although it has been adopted by the positivists,
this is merely a metaphysical hypothesis. In the ordinary sense of the word, "progress" is
merely a subjective expression denoting those changes which follow the direction of our preferences.
But, even taking the word in the objective sense given to it by Spencer (an increase in the
variety and coordination of social phenomena), the study of historical facts does not point
to a single universal and continuous progress of humanity, it brings before us a number of
partial and intermittent progressive movements, and it gives us no reason to attribute them
to a permanent cause inherent in humanity as a whole rather than to a series of local accidents.[211]

Attempts at a more scientific form of explanation have had their origin in the special branches
of history (of languages, religion, law). By the separate study of the succession of facts
of a single species, specialists have been enabled to ascertain the regular recurrence of the
same successions of facts, and these results have been expressed in formulæ which are sometimes
called laws (for example, the law of the tonic accent); these are never more than empirical
laws which merely indicate successions of facts without explaining them, for they do not reveal
the efficient cause. But specialists, influenced by a natural metaphor, and struck by the regularity
of these successions, have regarded the evolution of usages (of a word, a rite, a dogma, a
rule of law), as if it were an organic development analogous to the growth of a plant; we hear
of the "life of words," of the "death of dogmas," of the "growth of myths." Then, in forgetfulness
of the fact that all these things are pure abstractions, it has been tacitly assumed that there
is a force inhering in the word, the rite, the rule, which produces its evolution. This is
the theory of the development (Entwickelung) of usages and institutions; it was started in
Germany by the "historical" school, and has dominated all the special branches of history.
The history of languages alone has succeeded in shaking off its influence.[212] Just as usages
have been treated as if they were existences possessing a separate life of their own, so the
succession of individuals composing the various bodies within a society (royalty, church, senate,
parliament) has been personified by the attribution to it of a will, which is treated as an
active cause. A world of imaginary beings has thus been created behind the historical facts,
and has replaced Providence in the explanation of them. For our defence against this deceptive
mythology a single rule will suffice: Never seek the causes of an historical fact without having
first expressed it concretely in terms of acting and thinking individuals. If abstractions
are used, every metaphor must be avoided which would make them play the part of living beings.

By a comparison of the evolutions of the different species of facts which coexist in one and
the same society, the "historical" school was led to the discovery of solidarity (Zusammenhang).[213]
But, before attempting to discover its causes by analysis, the adherents of this school assumed
the existence of a permanent general cause residing in the society itself. And, as it was customary
to personify society, a special temperament was attributed to it, the peculiar genius of the
nation or the race, manifesting itself in the different social activities and explaining their
solidarity.[214] This was simply an hypothesis suggested by the animal world, in which each
species has permanent characteristics. It would have been inadequate, for in order to explain
how a given society comes to change its character from one epoch to another (the Greeks between
the seventh and the fourth centuries, the English between the fifteenth and the nineteenth),
it would have been necessary to invoke the aid of external causes. And the theory is untenable,
for all the societies known to history are groups of men without anthropological unity and
without common hereditary characteristics.

In addition to these metaphysical or metaphorical explanations, attempts have been made to
apply to the investigation of causes in history the classical procedure of the natural sciences:
the comparison of parallel series of successive phenomena in order to discover those which
always appear together. The "comparative method" has assumed several different forms. Sometimes
the subject of study has been a detail of social life (a usage, an institution, a belief, a
rule), defined in abstract terms; its evolutions in different societies have been compared
with a view to determine the common evolution which is to be attributed to one and the same
general cause. Thus have arisen comparative philology, mythology, and law. It has been proposed
(in England) to give precision to the comparative method by applying "statistics"; this would
mean the systematic comparison of all known societies and the enumeration of all the cases
where two usages are found together. This is the principle of Bacon's tables of agreement;
it is to be feared that it will be no more fertile in results. The defect of all such methods
is that they apply to abstract and partly arbitrary notions, sometimes merely to verbal resemblances,
and do not rest on a knowledge of the whole of the conditions under which the facts occur.

We can conceive a more concrete method which, instead of comparing fragments, should compare
wholes, that is entire societies, either the same society at different stages of its evolution
(England in the sixteenth, and again in the nineteenth century), or else the general evolution
of several societies, contemporary with each other (England and France), or existing at different
epochs (Rome and England). Such a method might be useful negatively, for the purpose of ascertaining
that a given fact is not the necessary effect of another, since they are not always found together
(for example, the emancipation of women and Christianity). But positive results are hardly
to be expected of it, for the concomitance of two facts in several series does not show whether
one is the cause of the other, or whether both are joint effects of a single cause.

The methodical investigation of the causes of a fact requires an analysis of the conditions
under which the fact occurs, performed so as to isolate the necessary condition which is its
cause; it presupposes, therefore, the complete knowledge of these conditions. But this is precisely
what we never have in history. We must therefore renounce the idea of arriving at causes by
direct methods such as are used in the other sciences.

As a matter of fact, however, historians often do employ the notion of cause, which, as we
have shown above, is indispensable for the purpose of formulating events and constructing periods.
They know causes partly from the authors of documents who observed the facts, partly from the
analogy of the causes which we all observe at the present day. The whole history of events
is a chain of obviously and incontrovertibly connected incidents, each one of which is the
determining cause of another. The lance-thrust of Montgomery is the cause of the death of Henry
II.; this death is the cause of the accession to power of the Guises, which again is the cause
of the rising of the Protestants.

The observation of causes by the authors of documents is limited to the interconnection of
the accidental facts observed by them; these are, in truth, the causes which are known with
the greatest certainty. Thus history, unlike the other sciences, is better able to ascertain
the causes of particular incidents than those of general transformations, for the work is found
already done in the documents.

In the investigation of the causes of general facts, historical construction is reduced to
the analogy between the past and the present. Whatever chance there is of finding the causes
which explain the evolution of past societies must lie in the direct observation of the transformations
of present societies.

This is a branch of study which is not yet firmly established; here we can only state the principles
of it.

(1) In order to ascertain the causes of the solidarity between the different habits of one
and the same society, it is necessary to look beyond the abstract and conventional form which
the facts assume in language (dogma, rule, rite, institution), and attend to the real concrete
centres, which are always thinking and acting men. Here only are found together the different
species of activity which language separates by abstraction. Their solidarity is to be sought
for in some dominating feature in the character or the environment of the men which influences
all the different manifestations of their activity. We must not expect the same degrees of
solidarity in all the species of activity; there will be most of it in those species where
each individual is in close dependence on the actions of the mass (economic, social, political
life); there will be less of it in the intellectual activities (arts, sciences), where individual
initiative has freer play.[215] Documents mention most habits (beliefs, customs, institutions)
in the lump, without distinguishing individuals; and yet, in one and the same society, habits
vary considerably from one man to another. It is necessary to take account of these differences,
otherwise there is a danger of explaining the actions of artists and men of science by the
beliefs and the habits of their prince or their tradesmen.

(2) In order to ascertain the causes of an evolution, it is necessary to study the only beings
which can evolve--men. Every evolution has for its cause a change in the material conditions
or in the habits of certain men. Observation shows us two kinds of change. In the one case,
the men remain the same, but change their manner of acting or thinking, either voluntarily
through imitation, or by compulsion. In the other, the men who practised the old usage disappear
and are replaced by others who do not practise it; these may be strangers, or they may be the
descendants of the first set of men, but educated in a different manner. This renewing of the
generations seems, in our day, to be the most active cause of evolution. It is natural to suppose
that the same holds good of the past; evolution has been slower, the more exclusively each
generation has been formed by the imitation of its forerunners.

There is still one more question to ask. Are men all alike, differing merely in the conditions
under which they live (education, resources, government), and is evolution produced solely
by changes in these conditions? Or are there groups of men with hereditary differences, born
with tendencies to different activities and with aptitudes leading to different evolutions,
so that evolution may be the product, in part at least, of the increase, the diminution, and
the displacement of these groups? Taking the extreme cases, the white, black, and yellow races
of mankind, the differences in aptitude are obvious; no black people has ever developed a civilisation.
It is thus probable that smaller hereditary differences may have had their share in the determination
of events. If so, historical evolution would be partly produced by physiological and anthropological
causes. But history provides us with no sure means of determining the action of these hereditary
differences between men; it goes no further than the conditions of their existence. The last
question of history remains insoluble by historical methods.

CHAPTER V

EXPOSITION

We have still to study a question whose practical interest is obvious: What are the forms in
which historical works present themselves? These forms are, in fact, very numerous. Some of
them are antiquated; not all are legitimate; the best have their drawbacks. We should ask,
therefore, not only what are the forms in which historical works appear, but also which of
these represent truly rational types of exposition.

By "historical works" we mean here all those which are intended to communicate results obtained
by the labour of historical construction, whatever may be the nature, the extent, and the bearing
of these results. The critical elaboration of documents, which is treated of in Book II., and
which is preparatory to historical construction, is naturally excluded.

Historians may differ, and up to the present have differed, on several essential points. They
have not always had, nor have they all now, the same conception of the end aimed at by historical
work; hence arise differences in the nature of the facts chosen, the manner of dividing the
subject, that is, of co-ordinating the facts, the manner of presenting them, the manner of
proving them. This would be the place to indicate how "the mode of writing history" has evolved
from the beginning. But as the history of the modes of writing history has not yet been written
well,[216] we shall here content ourselves with some very general remarks on the period prior
to the second half of the nineteenth century, confining ourselves to what is strictly necessary
for the understanding of the present situation.

I. History was first conceived as the narration of memorable events. To preserve the memory
and propagate the knowledge of glorious deeds, or of events which were of importance to a man,
a family, or a people; such was the aim of history in the tune of Thucydides and Livy. In addition,
history was early considered as a collection of precedents, and the knowledge of history as
a practical preparation for life, especially political life (military and civil). Polybius
and Plutarch wrote to instruct, they claimed to give recipes for action. Hence in classical
antiquity the subject-matter of history consisted chiefly of political incidents, wars, and
revolutions. The ordinary framework of historical exposition (within which the facts were usually
arranged in chronological order) was the life of a person, the whole life of a people, or a
particular period in it; there were in antiquity but few essays in general history. As the
aim of the historian was to please or to instruct, or to please and instruct at the same time,
history was a branch of literature: there were not too many scruples on the score of proofs;
those who worked from written documents took no care to distinguish the text of such documents
from their own text; in reproducing the narratives of their predecessors they adorned them
with details, and sometimes (under pretext of being precise) with numbers, with speeches, with
reflections, and elegances. We can in a manner see them at work in every instance where it
is possible to compare Greek and Roman historians, Ephorus and Livy, for example, with their
sources.

The writers of the Renaissance directly imitated the ancients. For them, too, history was a
literary art with apologetic aims or didactic pretensions. In Italy it was too often a means
of gaining the favour of princes, or a theme for declamations. This state of affairs lasted
a long time. Even in the seventeenth century we find, in Mézeray, an historian of the ancient
classical pattern.

However, in the historical literature of the Renaissance, two novelties claim our attention,
in which the mediæval influence is incontrovertibly manifest. On the one hand we see the retention
of a form of exposition which was unusual in antiquity, which was created by the Catholic historians
of the later ages (Eusebius, Orosius), and which enjoyed great favour in the Middle Ages,--that
which, instead of embracing only the history of a single man, family, or people, embraces universal
history. On the other hand there was introduced a mechanical artifice of exposition, having
its origin in a practice common in the mediæval schools (the gloss), which had far-reaching
consequences. The custom arose of adding notes to printed books of history.[217] Notes have
made it possible to distinguish between the historical narrative and the documents which support
it, to give references to sources, to disencumber and illustrate the text. It was in collections
of documents, and in critical dissertations, that the artifice of annotation was first employed;
thence it penetrated, slowly, into historical works of other classes.

A second period begins in the eighteenth century. The "philosophers" then began to conceive
history as the study, not of events for their own sakes, but of the habits of men. They were
thus led to take an interest, not only in facts of a political order, but in the evolution
of the arts, the sciences, of industry, and in manners. Montesquieu and Voltaire personified
these tendencies. The Essai sur les moeurs is the first sketch, and, in some respects, the
masterpiece of history thus conceived. The detailed narration of political and military events
was still regarded as the main work of history, but to this it now became customary to add,
generally by way of supplement or appendix, a sketch of the "progress of the human mind." The
expression "history of civilisation" appears before the end of the eighteenth century. At the
same time German university professors, especially at Göttingen, were creating, in order to
supply educational needs, the new form of the historical "manual," a methodical collection
of carefully justified facts, with no literary or other pretensions. Collections of historical
facts, made with a view to aid in the interpretation of literary texts, or out of mere curiosity
in regard to the things of the past, had existed from ancient times; but the medleys of Athenæus
and Aulus Gellius, or the vaster and better arranged compilations of the Middle Ages and the
Renaissance, are by no means to be compared with the "scientific manuals" of which the German
professors then gave the models. These professors, moreover, contributed towards the clearing
up of the vague, general notion which the philosophers had of "civilisation," for they applied
themselves to the organisation of the history of languages, of literatures, of the arts, of
religions, of law, of economic phenomena, and so on, as so many separate branches of study.
Thus the domain of history was greatly enlarged, and scientific, that is, simple and objective,
exposition began to compete with the rhetorical or sententious, patriotic or philosophical
ideals of antiquity.

This competition was at first timid and obscure, for the beginning of the nineteenth century
was marked by a literary renaissance which renovated historical literature. Under the influence
of the romantic movement historians sought for more vivid methods of exposition than those
employed by their predecessors, methods better adapted to strike the imagination and rouse
the emotions of the public, by filling the mind with poetical images of vanished realities.
Some endeavoured to preserve the peculiar colouring of the original documents, which they adapted:
"Charmed with the contemporary narratives," says Barante, "I have endeavoured to write a consecutive
account which should borrow from them their animation and interest." This leads directly to
the neglect of criticism, and to the reproduction of whatever is effective from the literary
point of view. Others declared that the facts of the past ought to be recounted with all the
emotions of a spectator. "Thierry," says Michelet, praising him, "in telling us the story of
Klodowig, breathes the spirit and shows the emotion of recently invaded France...." Michelet
"stated the problem of history as the resuscitation of integral life in the inmost parts of
the organism." With the romantic historians the choice of subject, of plan, of the proofs,
of the style, is dominated by an engrossing desire to produce an effect--a literary, not a
scientific ambition. Some romantic historians have slid down this inclined plane to the level
of the "historical novel." We know the nature of this species of literature, which flourished
so vigorously from the Abbé Barthélemy and Chateaubriand down to Mérimée and Ebers, and which
some are now vainly attempting to rejuvenate. The object is to "make the scenes of the past
live again" in dramatic pictures artistically constructed with "true" colours and details.
The obvious object of the method is that it does not provide the reader with any means of distinguishing
between the elements borrowed from the documents and the imaginary elements, not to mention
the fact that generally the documents used are not all of the same origin, so that while the
colour of each stone may be "true" that of the mosaic is false. Dezobry's Rome au siècle d'Auguste,
Augustin Thierry's Récits mérovingiens, and other "pictures" produced at the same epoch were
constructed on the same principle, and are subject to the same drawbacks as the historical
novels properly so-called.[218]

We may summarise what precedes by saying that, up to about 1850, history continued to be, both
for historians and the public, a branch of literature. An excellent proof of this lies in the
fact that up till then historians were accustomed to publish new editions of their works, at
intervals of several years, without making any change in them, and that the public tolerated
the practice. Now every scientific work needs to be continually recast, revised, brought up
to date. Scientific workers do not claim to give their works an immutable form, they do not
expect to be read by posterity or to achieve personal immortality; it is enough for them if
the results of their researches, corrected, it may be, and possibly transformed by subsequent
researches, should be incorporated in the fund of knowledge which forms the scientific heritage
of mankind. No one reads Newton or Lavoisier; it is enough for their glory that their labours
should have contributed to the production of works by which their own have been superseded,
and which will be, sooner or later, superseded in their turn. It is only works of art that
enjoy perpetual youth. And the public is well aware of the fact; no one would ever think of
studying natural history in Buffon, whatever his opinion might be of the merits of this stylist.
But the same public is quite ready to study history in Augustin Thierry, in Macaulay, in Carlyle,
in Michelet, and the books of the great writers who have treated historical subjects are reprinted,
fifty years after the author's death, in their original form, though they are manifestly no
longer on a level with current knowledge. It is clear that, for many, form counts before matter
in history, and that an historical work is primarily, if not exclusively, a work of art.[219]

II. It is within the last fifty years that the scientific forms of historical exposition have
been evolved and settled, in accordance with the general principle that the aim of history
is not to please, nor to give practical maxims of conduct, nor to arouse the emotions, but
knowledge pure and simple.

We begin by distinguishing between (1) monographs and (2) works of a general character.

(1) A man writes a monograph when he proposes to elucidate a special point, a single fact,
or a limited body of facts, for example the whole or a portion of the life of an individual,
a single event or a series of events between two dates lying near together. The types of possible
subjects of a monograph cannot be enumerated, for the subject-matter of history can be divided
indefinitely, and in an infinite number of ways. But all modes of division are not equally
judicious, and, though the reverse has been maintained, there are, in history as in all the
sciences, subjects which it would be stupid to treat in monographs, and monographs which, though
well executed, represent so much useless labour.[220] Persons of moderate ability and no great
mental range, devoted to what is called "curious" learning, are very ready to occupy themselves
with insignificant questions;[221] indeed, for the purpose of making a first estimate of an
historian's intellectual power, a fairly good criterion may be had in the list of the monographs
he has written.[222] It is the gift of seeing the important problems, and the taste for their
treatment, as well as the power of solving them, which, in all the sciences, raise men to the
first rank. But let us suppose the subject has been rationally chosen. Every monograph, in
order to be useful--that is, capable of being fully turned to account--should conform to three
rules: (1) in a monograph every historical fact derived from documents should only be presented
accompanied by a reference to the documents from which it is taken, and an estimate of the
value of these documents;[223] (2) chronological order should be followed as far as possible,
because this is the order in which we know that the facts occurred, and by which we are guided
in searching for causes and effects; (3) the title of the monograph must enable its subject
to be known with exactitude: we cannot protest too strongly against those incomplete or fancy
titles which so unnecessarily complicate bibliographical searches. A fourth rule has been laid
down; it has been said "a monograph is useful only when it exhausts the subject"; but it is
quite legitimate to do temporary work with documents which one has at one's disposal, even
when there is reason to believe that others exist, provided always that precise notice is given
as to what documents have been employed.

Any one who has tact will see that, in a monograph, the apparatus of demonstration, while needing
to be complete, ought to be reduced to what is strictly necessary. Sobriety is imperative;
all parading of erudition which might have been spared without inconvenience is odious.[224]
In history it often happens that the best executed monographs furnish no other result than
the proof that knowledge is impossible. It is necessary to resist the desire which leads some
to round off with subjective, ambitious, and vague conclusions monographs which will not bear
them.[225] The proper conclusion of a good monograph is the balance-sheet of the results obtained
by it and the points left doubtful. A monograph made on these principles may grow antiquated,
but it will not fall to pieces, and its author will never need to blush for it.

(2) Works of a general character are addressed either to students or to the general public.

A. General works intended principally for students and specialists now appear in the form of
"repertories," "manuals," and "scientific histories." In a repertory a number of verified facts
belonging to a given class are collected and arranged in an order which makes it easy to refer
to them. If the facts thus collected have precise dates, chronological order is adopted: thus
the task has been undertaken of compiling "Annals" of German history, in which the summary
entry of the events, arranged by dates, is accompanied by the texts from which the events are
known, with accurate references to the sources and the works of critics; the collection of
the Jahrbücher der deutschen Geschichte has for its object the elucidation, as far as is possible,
of the facts of German history, including all that is susceptible of scientific discussion
and proof, but omitting all that belongs to the domain of appreciation and general views. When
the facts are badly dated, or are simultaneous, alphabetical arrangement must be employed;
thus we have Dictionaries: dictionaries of institutions, biographical dictionaries, historical
encyclopædias, such as the Realencyclopædie of Pauly-Wissowa. These alphabetical repertories
are, in theory, just as the Jahrbücher, collections of proved facts; if, in practice, the references
in them are less rigorous, if the apparatus of texts supporting the statements is less complete,
the difference is without justification.[226] Scientific manuals are also, properly speaking,
repertories, since they are collections in which established facts are arranged in systematic
order, and are exhibited objectively, with their proofs, and without any literary adornment.
The authors of these "manuals," of which the most numerous and the most perfect specimens have
been composed in our days in the German universities, have no object in view except to draw
up minute inventories of the acquisitions made by knowledge, in order that workers may be enabled
to assimilate the results of criticism with greater ease and rapidity, and may be furnished
with starting-points for new researches. Manuals of this kind now exist for most of the special
branches of the history of civilisation (languages, literature, religion, law, Alterthümer,
and so on), for the history of institutions, for the different parts of ecclesiastical history.
It will suffice to mention the names of Schoemann, of Marquardt and Mommsen, of Gilbert, of
Krumbacher, of Harnack, of Möller. These works are not marked by the dryness of the majority
of the primitive "manuals," which were published in Germany a hundred years ago, and which
were little more than tables of subjects, with references to the books and documents to be
consulted; in the modern type the exposition and discussion are no doubt terse and compact,
but yet not abbreviated beyond a point at which they may be tolerated, even preferred by cultivated
readers. They take away the taste for other books, as G. Paris very well says:[227] "When one
has feasted on these substantial pages, so full of facts, which, with all their appearance
of impersonality, yet contain, and above all suggest, so many thoughts, it is difficult to
read books, even books of distinction, in which the subject is cut up symmetrically to fit
in with a preconceived system, is coloured by fancy, and is, so to speak, presented to us in
disguise, books in which the author continually comes between us and the spectacle which he
claims to make intelligible to us, but which he never allows us to see." The great historical
"manuals," uniform with the treatises and manuals of the other sciences (with the added complication
of authorities and proofs), ought to be, and are, continually improved, emended, corrected,
brought up to date: they are, by definition, works of science and not of art.

The earliest repertories and the earliest scientific "manuals" were composed by isolated individuals.
But it was soon recognised that a single man cannot correctly arrange, or have the proper mastery
over a vast collection of facts. The task has been divided. Repertories are executed, in our
days, by collaborators in association (who are sometimes of different nationalities and write
in different languages). The great manuals (of I. von Müller, of G. Gröber, of H. Paul, and
others) are collections of special treatises each written by a specialist. The principle of
collaboration is excellent, but on condition (1) that the collective work is of a nature to
be resolved into great independent, though co-ordinated, monographs; (2) that the section entrusted
to each collaborator has a certain extent; if the number of collaborators is too great and
the part of each too limited, the liberty and the responsibility of each are diminished or
disappear.

Histories, intended to give a narrative of events which happened but once, and to state the
general facts which dominate the whole course of special evolutions, still have a reason for
existence, even after the multiplication of methodical manuals. But scientific methods of exposition
have been introduced into them, as into monographs and manuals, and that by imitation. The
reform has consisted, in every case, in the renunciation of literary ornaments and of statements
without proof. Grote produced the first model of a "history" thus defined. At the same time
certain forms which once had a vogue have now fallen into disuse: this is the case with the
"Universal Histories" with continuous narrative, which were so much liked, for different reasons,
in the Middle Ages and in the eighteenth century; in the present century Schlosser and Weber
in Germany, Cantù in Italy, have produced the last specimens of them. This type has been abandoned
for historical reasons, because we have ceased to regard humanity as a whole, bound together
by a single evolution; and for practical reasons, because we have recognised the impossibility
of collecting so overwhelming a mass of facts in a single work. The Universal Histories which
are still published in collaboration (the Oncken collection is the best type of them), are,
like the great manuals, composed of independent sections, each treated by a different author;
they are publishers' combinations. Historians have in our days been led to adopt the division
by states (national histories) and by epochs.[228]

B. There is in theory no reason why historical works intended principally for the public should
not be conceived in the same spirit as works designed for students and specialists, nor why
they should not be composed in the same manner, apart from simplifications and omissions which
readily suggest themselves. And, in fact, there are in existence succinct, substantial, and
readable summaries, in which no statement is advanced which is not tacitly supported by solid
references, in which the acquisitions of science are precisely stated, judiciously explained,
their significance and value clearly brought out. The French, thanks to their natural gifts
of tact, dexterity, and accuracy of mind, excel, as a rule, in this department. There have
been published in our country review-articles and works of higher popularisation in which the
results of a number of original works have been cleverly condensed, in a way that has won the
admiration of the very specialists who, by their heavy monographs, have rendered these works
possible. Nothing, however, is more dangerous than popularisation. As a matter of fact, most
works of popularisation do not conform to the modern ideal of historical exposition; we frequently
find in them survivals of the ancient ideal, that of antiquity, the Renaissance, and the romantic
school.

The explanation is easy. The defects of the historical works designed for the general public--defects
which are sometimes enormous, and have, with many able minds, discredited popular works as
a class--are the consequences of the insufficient preparation or of the inferior literary education
of the "popularisers."

A populariser is excused from original research; but he ought to know everything of importance
that has been published on his subject, he ought to be up to date, and to have thought out
for himself the conclusions reached by the specialists. If he has not personally made a special
study of the subject he proposes to treat, he must obviously read it up, and the task is long.
For the professional populariser there is a strong temptation to study superficially a few
recent monographs, to hastily string together or combine extracts from them, and, in order
to render this medley more attractive, to deck it out, as far as is possible, with "general
ideas" and external graces. The temptation is all the stronger from the circumstance that most
specialists take no interest in works of popularisation, that these works are, in general,
lucrative, and that the public at large is not in a position to distinguish clearly between
honest and sham popularisation. In short, there are some, absurd as it may seem, who do not
hesitate to summarise for others what they have not taken the trouble to learn for themselves,
and to teach that of which they are ignorant. Hence, in most works of historical popularisation,
there inevitably appear blemishes of every kind, which the well-informed always note with pleasure,
but with a pleasure in which there is some touch of bitterness, because they alone can see
these faults: unacknowledged borrowings, inexact references, mutilated names and texts, second-hand
quotations, worthless hypotheses, imprudent assertions, puerile generalisations, and, in the
enunciation of the most false or the most debatable opinions, an air of tranquil authority.[229]

On the other hand, men whose information is all that could be desired, whose monographs intended
for specialists are full of merit, sometimes show themselves capable, when they write for the
public, of grave offences against scientific method. The Germans are habitual offenders: consider
Mommsen, Droysen, Curtius, and Lamprecht. The reason is that these authors, when they address
the public, wish to produce an effect upon it. Their desire to make a strong impression leads
them to a certain relaxation of scientific rigour, and to the old rejected habits of ancient
historiography. These men, scrupulous and minute as they are when they are engaged in establishing
details, abandon themselves, in their exposition of general questions, to their natural impulses,
like the common run of men. They take sides, they censure, they extol; they colour, they embellish;
they allow themselves to be influenced by personal, patriotic, moral, or metaphysical considerations.
And, over and above all this, they apply themselves, with their several degrees of talent,
to the task of producing works of art; in this endeavour those who have no talent make themselves
ridiculous, and the talent of those who have any is spoilt by their preoccupation with the
effect they wish to produce.

Not, let it be well understood, that "form" is of no importance, or that, provided he makes
himself intelligible, the historian has a right to employ incorrect, vulgar, slovenly, or clumsy
language. A contempt for rhetoric, for paste diamonds and paper flowers, does not exclude a
taste for a pure and strong, a terse and pregnant style. Fustel de Coulanges was a good writer,
although throughout his life he recommended and practised the avoidance of metaphor. On the
contrary we see no harm in repeating[230] that the historian, considering the extreme complexity
of the phenomena he undertakes to describe, is under an obligation not to write badly. But
he should write consistently well, and never bedeck himself with finery.

CONCLUSION

I. History is only the utilisation of documents. But it is a matter of chance whether documents
are preserved or lost. Hence the predominant part played by chance in the formation of history.

The quantity of documents in existence, if not of known documents, is given; time, in spite
of all the precautions which are taken nowadays, is continually diminishing it; it will never
increase. History has at its disposal a limited stock of documents; this very circumstance
limits the possible progress of historical science. When all the documents are known, and have
gone through the operations which fit them for use, the work of critical scholarship will be
finished. In the case of some ancient periods, for which documents are rare, we can now see
that in a generation or two it will be time to stop. Historians will then be obliged to take
refuge more and more in modern periods. Thus history will not fulfil the dream which, in the
nineteenth century, inspired the romantic school with so much enthusiasm for the study of history:
it will not penetrate the mystery of the origin of societies; and, for want of documents, the
beginnings of the evolution of humanity will always remain obscure.

The historian does not collect by his own observation the materials necessary for history as
is done in the other sciences: he works on facts the knowledge of which has been transmitted
by former observers. In history knowledge is not obtained, as in the other sciences, by direct
methods, it is indirect. History is not, as has been said, a science of observation, but a
science of reasoning.

In order to use facts which have been observed under unknown conditions, it is necessary to
apply criticism to them, and criticism consists in a series of reasonings by analogy. The facts
as furnished by criticism are isolated and scattered; in order to organise them into a structure
it is necessary to imagine and group them in accordance with their resemblances to facts of
the present day, an operation which also depends on the use of analogies. This necessity compels
history to use an exceptional method. In order to frame its arguments from analogy, it must
always combine the knowledge of the particular conditions under which the facts of the past
occurred with an understanding of the general conditions under which the facts of humanity
occur. Its method is to draw up special tables of the facts of an epoch in the past, and to
apply to them sets of questions founded on the study of the present.

The operations which must necessarily be performed in order to pass from the inspection of
documents to the knowledge of the facts and evolutions of the past are very numerous. Hence
the necessity of the division and organisation of labour in history. It is requisite, on the
one hand, that those specialists who occupy themselves with the search for documents, their
restoration and preliminary classification, should co-ordinate their efforts, in order that
the preparatory work of critical scholarship may be finished as soon as possible, under the
best conditions as to accuracy and economy of labour. On the other hand, authors of partial
syntheses (monographs) designed to serve as materials for more comprehensive syntheses ought
to agree among themselves to work on a common method, in order that the results of each may
be used by the others without preliminary investigations. Lastly, workers of experience should
be found to renounce personal research and devote their whole time to the study of these partial
syntheses, in order to combine them scientifically in comprehensive works of historical construction.
And if the result of these labours were to bring out clear and certain conclusions as to the
nature and the causes of social evolution, a truly scientific "philosophy of history" would
have been created, which historians might acknowledge as legitimately crowning historical science.

Conceivably a day may come when, thanks to the organisation of labour, all existing documents
will have been discovered, emended, arranged, and all the facts established of which the traces
have not been destroyed. When that day comes, history will be established, but it will not
be fixed: it will continue to be gradually modified in proportion as the direct study of existing
societies becomes more scientific and permits a better understanding of social phenomena and
their evolution; for the new ideas which will doubtless be acquired on the nature, the causes,
and the relative importance of social facts will continue to transform the ideas which will
be formed of the societies and events of the past.[231]

II. It is an obsolete illusion to suppose that history supplies information of practical utility
in the conduct of life (Historia magistra vitæ), lessons directly profitable to individuals
and peoples; the conditions under which human actions are performed are rarely sufficiently
similar at two different moments for the "lessons of history" to be directly applicable. But
it is an error to say, by way of reaction, that "the distinguishing feature of history is to
be good for nothing."[232] It has an indirect utility.

History enables us to understand the present in so far as it explains the origin of the existing
state of things. Here we must admit that history does not offer an equal interest through the
whole extent of time which it covers; there are remote generations whose traces are no longer
visible in the world as it now is; for the purpose of explaining the political constitution
of contemporary England, for example, the study of the Anglo-Saxon witangemot is without value,
that of the events of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries is all-important. The evolution
of the civilised societies has within the last hundred years been accelerated to such a degree
that, for the understanding of their present form, the history of these hundred years is more
important than that of the ten preceding centuries. As an explanation of the present, history
would almost reduce to the study of the contemporary period.

History is also indispensable for the completion of the political and social sciences, which
are still in process of formation; for the direct observation of social phenomena (in a state
of rest) is not a sufficient foundation for these sciences--there must be added a study of
the development of these phenomena in time, that is, their history.[233] This is why all the
sciences which deal with man (linguistic, law, science of religions, political economy, and
so on) have in this century assumed the form of historical sciences.

But the chief merit of history is that of being an instrument of intellectual culture; it is
so in several ways. Firstly, the practice of the historical method of investigation, of which
the principles have been sketched in the present volume, is very hygienic for the mind, which
it cures of credulity. Secondly, history, by exhibiting to us a great number of differing societies,
prepares us to understand and tolerate a variety of usages; by showing us that societies have
often been transformed, it familiarises us with variation in social forms, and cures us of
a morbid dread of change. Lastly, the contemplation of past evolutions, which enables us to
understand how the transformations of humanity are brought about by changes of habits and the
renewal of generations, saves us from the temptation of applying biological analogies (selection,
struggle for existence, inherited habits, and so on) to the explanation of social evolution,
which is not produced by the operation of the same causes as animal evolution.

APPENDICES

APPENDIX I

THE SECONDARY TEACHING OF HISTORY IN FRANCE

I. The teaching of history is a recent addition to secondary education. Formerly history was
taught to the sons of kings and great persons, in order to give them a preparation in the art
of governing, according to the ancient tradition, but it was a sacred science reserved for
the future rulers of states, a science for princes, not for subjects. The secondary schools
which have been organised since the sixteenth century, ecclesiastical or secular, Catholic
or Protestant, did not admit history into their plan of study, or only admitted it as an appendage
to the study of the ancient languages. This was the tradition of the Jesuits in France; it
was adopted by the University of Napoleon.

History was only introduced into secondary education in the nineteenth century, under the pressure
of public opinion; and although it has been allotted more space in France than in England,
or even in Germany, it has continued to be a subsidiary subject, not taught in a special class
(as philosophy is), nor always by a special professor, and counting for very little in examinations.

Historical instruction has for a long time felt the effects of the manner in which it was introduced.
The subject was imposed by the authorities on teachers trained exclusively in the study of
literature, and could find no suitable place in a system of classical education based on the
study of forms, and indifferent to the knowledge of social phenomena. History was taught because
it was prescribed by the programme; but this programme, the sole motive and guide of the instruction,
was always an accident, and varied with the preferences, or even the personal studies of those
who framed it. History formed part of the social conventions; there are, it was said, names
and facts "of which it is not permissible to be ignorant"; but the things of which ignorance
was not permitted varied greatly, from the names of the Merovingian kings and the battles of
the Seven Years' War to the Salic Law and the work of Saint Vincent de Paul.

The improvised staffs which, in order to carry out the programme, had to furnish impromptu
instruction in history, had no clear idea either of the reasons for such instruction, or of
its place in general education, or of the technical methods necessary for giving it. With this
lack of tradition, of pedagogic preparation, and even of mechanical aids, the professor of
history found himself carried back to the ages before printing, when the teacher had to supply
the pupil with all the facts which formed the subject-matter of instruction, and he adopted
the mediæval procedure. Armed with a note-book in which he had written down the list of facts
to be taught, he read it out to the pupils, sometimes making a pretence of extemporising; this
was the "lesson," the corner-stone of historical instruction. The whole series of lessons,
determined by the programme, formed the "course." The pupil was expected to write as he listened
(this was called "taking notes") and to compose a written account of what he had heard (this
was the rédaction). But as the pupils were not taught how to take notes, nearly all of them
were content to write very rapidly, from the professor's dictation, a rough draft, which they
copied out at home in the form of a rédaction, without any endeavour to grasp the meaning either
of what they heard or what they transcribed. To this mechanical labour the most zealous added
extracts copied from books, generally with just as little reflection.

In order to get the facts judged essential into the pupils' heads, the professor used to make
a very short version of the lesson, the "summary" or "abstract," which he dictated openly,
and caused to be learnt by heart. Thus of the two written exercises which occupied nearly the
whole time of the class, one (the summary) was an overt dictation, the other (the rédaction)
an unavowed dictation.

The only means adopted to check the pupils' work was to make them repeat the summary word for
word, and to question them on the rédaction, that is to make them repeat approximately the
words of the professor. Of the two oral exercises one was an overt, the other an unavowed repetition.

It is true the pupil was given a book, the Précis d'histoire,[234] but this book had the same
form as the professor's course, and instead of serving as a basis for the oral instruction,
merely duplicated it, and, as a rule, duplicated it badly, for it was not intelligible to the
pupil. The authors of these text-books,[235] adopting the traditional methods of "abridgments,"
endeavoured to accumulate the greatest possible number of facts by omitting all their characteristic
details and summarising them in the most general, and therefore vague, expressions. In the
elementary books nothing was left but a residue of proper names and dates connected by formulæ
of a uniform type; history appeared as a series of wars, treaties, reforms, revolutions, which
only differed in the names of peoples, sovereigns, fields of battle, and in the figures giving
the years.[236]

Such, down to the end of the Second Empire, was historical instruction in all French institutions,
both secular and ecclesiastical--with a few exceptions, whose merit is measured by their rarity,
for in those days a professor of history needed a more than common share of energy and initiative
to rise above the routine of rédaction and summary.

II. In recent times the general movement of educational reform, which began in the Department
and the Faculties, has at last extended to secondary instruction. The professors of history
have been emancipated from the jealous supervision which weighed on their teaching under the
government of the Empire, and have taken the opportunity to make trial of new methods. A system
of historical pedagogy has been devised. It has been revealed with the approbation of the Department
in the discussions of the society for the study of questions of secondary education, in the
Revue de l'enseignement secondaire, and in the Revue universitaire. It has received official
sanction in the Instructions appended to the programme of 1890; the report on history, the
work of M. Lavisse, has become the charter which protects the professors who favour reform
in their struggle against tradition.[237]

Historical instruction will no doubt issue from this crisis of renovation organised and provided
with a rational pedagogic and technical system, such as is possessed by the older branches
of instruction in languages, literature, and philosophy. But it is only to be expected that
the reform should be much slower than in the case of the higher instruction. The personnel
is much more numerous, and takes longer to train or to renew; the pupils are less zealous and
less intelligent; the routine of the parents opposes to the new methods a force of inertia
which is unknown to the Faculties; and the Baccalaureate, that general obstacle to all reform,
is particularly mischievous in its effect on historical instruction, which it reduces to a
set of questions and answers.

III. It is now possible, however, to indicate what is the direction in which historical instruction
is likely to develop in France[238] and the questions which will need to be solved for the
purpose of introducing a rational technical system. Here we shall endeavour to formulate these
questions in a methodical table.

(1) General Organisation.--What object should historical instruction aim at? What services
can it render to the culture of the pupil? What influence can it have upon his conduct? What
facts ought it to enable him to understand? And, consequently, what principles ought to guide
the choice of subjects and methods? Ought the instruction to be spread over the whole duration
of the classes, or should it be concentrated in a special class? Should it be given in one-hour
or two-hour classes? Should history be distributed into several cycles, as in Germany, so as
to cause the pupil to return several times to the same subject at different periods of his
studies? Or should it be expounded in a single continuous course, beginning with the commencement
of study, as in France? Should the professor give a complete course, or should he select a
few questions and leave the pupil to study the others by himself? Should he expound the facts
orally, or should he require the pupils to learn them in the first instance from a book, so
as to make the course a series of explanations?

(2) Choice of Subjects.--What proportion should be observed between home and foreign history?
between ancient and contemporary history? between the special branches of history (art, religion,
customs, economics) and general history? between institutions or usages, and events? between
the evolution of material usages, intellectual history, social life, political life? between
the study of particular incidents, of biography, of dramatic episodes, and the study of the
interconnection of events and general evolutions? What place should be assigned to proper names
and dates? Should we profit by the opportunities afforded by legends to arouse the critical
spirit? or should we avoid legends?

(3) Order.--In what order should the subjects be attacked? Should instruction begin with the
most ancient periods and the countries with the most ancient civilisations in order to follow
chronological order and the order of evolution? or should it begin with the periods and the
countries which are nearest to us so as to proceed from the better known to the less known?
In the exposition of each period, should the chronological, geographical, or logical order
be followed? Should the teacher begin by describing conditions or by narrating events?

(4) Methods of Instruction.--Should the pupil be given general formulæ first or particular
images? Should the professor state the formulæ himself or require the pupil to search for them?
Should formulæ be learnt by heart? In what cases? How are images of historical facts to be
produced in the pupils' minds? What use is to be made of engravings? of reproductions and restorations?
of imaginary scenes? What use is to be made of narratives and descriptions? of authors' texts?
of historical novels? To what extent ought words and formulæ to be quoted? How are facts to
be localised? What use is to be made of chronological tables? of synchronical tables? of geographical
sketches? of statistical and graphic tables? What is the way to make comprehensible the character
of events and customs? the motives of actions? the conditions of customs? How are the episodes
of an event to be chosen? and the examples of a custom? How is the interconnection of facts
and the process of evolution to be made intelligible? What use is to be made of comparison?
What style of language is to be employed? To what extent should concrete, abstract, and technical
terms be used? How is it to be verified that the pupil has understood the terms and assimilated
the facts? Can exercises be organised in which the pupil may do original work on the facts?
What instruments of study should the pupil have? How should school-books be compiled, with
a view to giving the pupil practice in original work?

For the purpose of stating and justifying the solutions of all these problems, a special treatise
would not be too much.[239] Here we shall merely indicate the general principles on which a
tolerable agreement seems to have been now reached in France.

We no longer go to history for lessons in morals, nor for good examples of conduct, nor yet
for dramatic or picturesque scenes. We understand that for all these purposes legend would
be preferable to history, for it presents a chain of causes and effects more in accordance
with our ideas of justice, more perfect and heroic characters, finer and more affecting scenes.
Nor do we seek to use history, as is done in Germany, for the purpose of promoting patriotism
and loyalty; we feel that it would be illogical for different persons to draw opposite conclusions
from the same science according to their country or party; it would be an invitation to every
people to mutilate, if not to alter, history in the direction of its preferences. We understand
that the value of every science consists in its being true, and we ask from history truth and
nothing more.[240]

The function of history in education is perhaps not yet clearly apparent to all those who teach
it. But all those who reflect are agreed to regard it as being principally an instrument of
social culture. The study of the societies of the past causes the pupil to understand, by the
help of actual instances, what a society is; it familiarises him with the principal social
phenomena and the different species of usages, their variety and their resemblances. The study
of events and evolutions familiarises him with the idea of the continual transformation which
human affairs undergo, it secures him against an unreasoning dread of social changes; it rectifies
his notion of progress. All these acquisitions render the pupil fitter for public life; history
thus appears as an indispensable branch of instruction in a democratic society.

The guiding principle of historical pedagogy will therefore be to seek for those subjects and
those methods which are best calculated to exhibit social phenomena and give an understanding
of their evolution. Before admitting a fact into the plan of instruction, it should be asked
first of all what educational influence it can exercise; secondly, whether there are adequate
means of bringing the pupil to see and understand it. Every fact should be discarded which
is instructive only in a low degree, or which is too complicated to be understood, or in regard
to which we do not possess details enough to make it intelligible.

IV. To make rational instruction a reality it is not enough to develop a theory of historical
pedagogy. It is necessary to renew the material aids and the methods.

History necessarily involves the knowledge of a great number of facts. The professor of history,
with no resources but his voice, a blackboard, and abridgments which are little better than
chronological tables, is in much the same situation as a professor of Latin without texts or
dictionary. The pupil in history needs a repertory of historical facts as the Latin pupil needs
a repertory of Latin words; he needs collections of facts, and the school text-books are mostly
collections of words.

There are two vehicles of facts, engravings and books. Engravings exhibit material objects
and external aspects, they are useful principally for the study of material civilisation. It
is some time since the attempt was first made in Germany to put in the hands of the pupil a
collection of engravings arranged for the purposes of historical instruction. The same need
has, in France, produced the Album historique, which is published under the direction of M.
Lavisse.

The book is the chief instrument. It ought to contain all the characteristic features necessary
for forming mental representations of the events, the motives, the habits, the institutions
studied; it will consist principally in narratives and descriptions, to which characteristic
sayings and formulæ may be appended. For a long time it was endeavoured to construct those
books out of extracts selected from ancient authors; they were compiled in the form of collections
of texts.[241] Experience seems to indicate that this method must be abandoned; it has a scientific
appearance, it is true, but is not intelligible to children. It is better to address pupils
in contemporary language. It is in this spirit that, pursuant to the Instructions of 1890,[242]
collections of Historical Readings have been compiled, of which the most important has been
published by the firm of Hachette.

The pupils' methods of work still bear witness to the late introduction of historical teaching.
In most historical classes methods still prevail which only exercise the pupils' receptivity:
the course of lectures, the summary, reading, questioning, the rédaction, the reproduction
of maps. It is as if a Latin pupil were to confine himself to repeating grammar-lessons and
extracts from authors, without ever doing translation or composition.

In order that the teaching may make an adequate impression, it is necessary, if not to discard
all these passive methods, at least to supplement them by exercises which call out the activity
of the pupil. Some such exercises have already been experimented with, and others might be
devised.[243] The pupil may be set to analyse engravings, narratives, and descriptions in such
a way as to bring out the character of the facts: the short written or oral analysis will guarantee
that he has seen and understood, it will be an opportunity to inculcate the habit of using
only precise terms. Or the pupil may be asked to furnish a drawing, a geographical sketch,
a synchronical table. He may be required to draw up tables of comparison between different
societies, and tables showing the interconnection of facts.

A book is needed to supply the pupil with the materials for these exercises. Thus the reform
of methods is connected with the reform of the instruments of work. Both reforms will progress
according as the professors and the public perceive more clearly the part played by historical
instruction in social education.

APPENDIX II

THE HIGHER TEACHING OF HISTORY IN FRANCE

The higher teaching of history has been in a great measure transformed, in our country, within
the last thirty years. The process has been gradual, as it ought to have been, and has consisted
in a succession of slight modifications. But although a rational continuity has been observed
in the steps taken, the great number of these steps has not failed, in these last days, to
astonish, and even to offend, the public. Public opinion, to which appeal has been made in
favour of reforms, has been somewhat surprised by being appealed to so often, and perhaps it
is not superfluous to indicate here, once more, the general significance and the inner logic
of the movement which we are witnessing.

I. Before the last years of the Second Empire, the higher teaching of the historical sciences
was organised in France on no coherent system.[244]

There were chairs of history in different institutions, of different types: at the Collège
de France, in the Faculties of Letters, and in the "special schools," such as the École normale
supérieure and the École des chartes.

The Collège de France was a relic of the institutions of the ancien régime. It was founded
in the sixteenth century in opposition to the scholastic Sorbonne, to be a refuge for the new
sciences, and had the glorious privilege of representing historically the higher speculative
studies, the spirit of free inquiry, and the interests of pure science. Unfortunately, in the
domain of the historical sciences, the Collège de France had allowed its traditions to be obliterated
up to a certain point. The great men who taught history in this illustrious institution (J.
Michelet, for example), were not technical experts, nor even men of learning, in the proper
sense of the word. The audiences which they swayed by their eloquence were not composed of
students of history.

The Faculties of Letters formed part of a system established by the Napoleonic legislator.
This legislator, in creating the Faculties, by no means entertained the design of encouraging
scientific research. He had no great love for science. The Faculties of Law, of Medicine, and
so on, were intended by him to be professional schools supplying society with the lawyers,
physicians, and so on, which it needs. But three of the five Faculties were unable, from the
beginning, to perform the part allotted them, while the other two, Law and Medicine, successfully
performed theirs. The Faculties of Catholic Theology did not train the priests needed by society,
because the State consented to the education of the priests being conducted in the diocesan
seminaries. The Faculties of Sciences and of Letters did not train the professors for secondary
education, the engineers, and so on, needed by society, because they were here met by the triumphant
competition of "special schools" previously instituted: the École normale, the École polytechnique.
The Faculties of Catholic Theology, of Sciences, and of Letters were therefore obliged to justify
their existence by other modes of activity. In particular, the professors of history in the
Faculties of Letters could not undertake the instruction of the young men who were destined
to teach history in the lycées. Deprived of these special pupils, they found themselves in
a situation analogous to that of those charged with historical instruction at the Collège de
France. They too were not, as a rule, technical experts. For half a century they carried on
the work of higher popularisation in lectures delivered to large audiences of leisured persons
(since much abused), who were attracted by the force, the elegance, and the pleasing style
of their diction.

The function of training the future teachers for secondary education was reserved for the École
normale supérieure. Now at this epoch it was an admitted principle that to be a good secondary
teacher it is necessary for a man to know, and sufficient to know perfectly, the subject he
is charged to teach. The one is certainly necessary, but the other is not sufficient: knowledge
of a different, of a higher, order is no less indispensable than the regular "scholastic" equipment.
At the École there was never any question of such higher knowledge, but, in accordance with
the prevailing theory, preparation was made for secondary teaching simply by imparting it.
However, as the École normale has always been excellently recruited, the system in vogue has
not prevented it from numbering among its former pupils men of the first order, not only as
professors, thinkers, or writers, but even as critical scholars. But it must be recognised
that they made their way for themselves, in spite of the system, not thanks to it, after, not
during, their pupilage, and principally when they had the advantage, during a stay at the French
School at Athens, of the wholesome contact with documents which they had not enjoyed at the
Rue d'Ulm. "Does it not seem strange," it has been said, "that so many generations of professors
should have been turned out by the École normale incapable of utilising documents?... Formerly,
in short, students of history, on leaving the École, were not prepared either to teach history,
which they had learned in a great hurry, or to investigate difficult questions."[245]

As for the École des chartes, which was founded under the Restoration, it was, from a certain
point of view, a special school like the others, designed in theory to train those useful functionaries,
archivists and librarians. But professional instruction was early reduced to a strict minimum,
and the École des chartes was organised on a very original plan, with a view to provide a rational
and complete apprenticeship for the young men who proposed to study mediæval French history.
The pupils of the École des chartes did not follow any course of "mediæval history," but they
learnt all that is necessary for doing work on the solution of the still open questions of
mediæval history. Here alone, in virtue of an accidental anomaly, the subjects which are preliminary
and auxiliary to historical research were systematically taught. We have already had occasion
to note the effects of this circumstance.[246]

This was the state of affairs when, towards the end of the Second Empire, a vigorous reform
movement set in. Some young Frenchmen had visited Germany; they had been struck by the superiority
of the German university system over the Napoleonic system of Faculties and special schools.
Certainly France, with its defective organisation, had produced many men and many works, but
it now began to be held that "in all kinds of enterprises the least possible part should be
left to chance," and that "when an institution proposes to train professors of history and
historians, it ought to supply them with the means of becoming what it intends them to be."

M. V. Duruy, minister of Public Education, supported the partisans of a renaissance of the
higher studies. He changed nothing, he added. He crowned the somewhat heterogeneous edifice
of existing institutions by the creation of an "École pratique des hautes études," which was
established at the Sorbonne in 1868.

The École pratique des hautes études (historical and philological section) was intended by
those who founded it to prepare young men for research of a scientific character. It was not
meant to be subservient to the interests of the professions, and there was to be no popularisation.
Students were not to go there to learn the results obtained by science, but, for the same purpose
which takes the chemical student to the laboratory, to be initiated into the technical methods
by which new results can be obtained. Thus the spirit of the new institution was not without
some analogy to that of the primitive tradition of the Collège de France. It was endeavoured
to do there, for all the branches of universal history and philology, what had long been done
at the École des chartes for the limited domain of French mediæval history.

II. As long as the Faculties of Letters were satisfied to be as they were (that is, without
students), and as long as their ambition did not go beyond their traditional functions (the
holding of public lectures, the conferring of degrees), the organisation of the higher teaching
of the historical sciences in France remained in the condition which we have described. When
the Faculties of Letters began to seek a new justification for their existence and new functions,
changes became inevitable.

This is not the place to explain why and how the Faculties of Letters were led to desire to
work more actively, or rather in other ways than in the past, for the promotion of the historical
sciences. M. V. Duruy, in inaugurating the École des hautes études at the Sorbonne, had declared
that this young and vigorous plant would thrust asunder the old stones; and, without a doubt,
the spectacle of the fruitful activity of the École des hautes études has contributed not a
little to awaken the conscience of the Faculties. On the other hand the liberality of the public
authorities, which have increased the personnel of the Faculties, which have built palaces
for them, and liberally endowed them with the materials required by their work, has imposed
new duties on these privileged institutions.

It is about twenty-five years since the Faculties of Letters began to transform themselves,
and during this period their progressive transformation has occasioned changes in the whole
fabric of the higher teaching of historical science in France, which up to that time had remained
unshaken, even by the ingenious addition of 1868.

III. The first care of the Faculties was to provide themselves with students. This was not,
to be sure, the main difficulty, for the École normale supérieurs (in which twenty pupils are
admitted every year, chosen from among hundreds of candidates) was no longer sufficient for
the recruiting of the now numerous body of professors engaged in secondary education. Many
young men who had been candidates (along with the pupils of the École normale supérieure) for
the degrees which give access to the scholastic profession, were thrown on their own resources.
Here was an assured supply of students. At the same time the military laws, by attaching much-prized
immunities to the title of licencié ès lettres, were calculated to attract to the Faculties,
if they prepared students for the licentiate, a large and very interesting class of young men.
Lastly, the foreigners (so numerous at the École des hautes études), who come to France to
complete their scientific education, and who up to that time were surprised to have no opportunity
of profiting by the Faculties, were sure to go to them as soon as they found there something
analogous to what they had been accustomed to find in the German universities, and the kind
of instruction they wanted.

Before students in any great number could be taught the way to the Faculties, great efforts
were necessary and several years passed; but it was after the Faculties obtained the students
they desired that the real problems presented themselves for solution.

The great majority of the students in the Faculties of Letters have been originally candidates
for degrees, for the licentiate, and for agrégation, who entered with the avowed intention
of "preparing" for the licentiate and for agrégation. The Faculties have not been able to escape
the obligation of helping them in this "preparation." But, twenty years ago, examinations were
still conceived in accordance with ancient formulæ. The licentiate was an attestation of advanced
secondary study, a kind of "higher baccalaureate"; for the agrégation in the classes of history
and geography (which became the real licentia docendi), the candidates were required to show
that they "had a very good knowledge of the subjects they would be charged to teach." Henceforth
there was a danger lest the teaching of the Faculties, which must, like that of the École normale
supérieure, be preparatory for the examinations for the licentiate and for agrégation, should
be compelled by the force of circumstances to assume the same character. Note that a certain
emulation could not fail to arise between the pupils of the École normale and those of the
Faculties in the competitions for agrégation. The agrégation programmes being what they were,
this emulation seemed likely to have the result of engaging the rival teachers and students
more and more in school work, not of a scientific kind, equally devoid of dignity and real utility.

The danger was very serious. It was perceived from the first by those clear-sighted promoters
of the reform of the Faculties, MM. A. Dumont, L. Liard, E. Lavisse. M. Lavisse wrote in 1884:
"To maintain that the Faculties have for their chief object the preparation for examinations
is to substitute drill for scientific culture: this is the serious grievance which able men
have against the partisans of innovation.... The partisans of innovation reply that they have
seen the drawbacks of the new departure from the beginning, but that they are convinced that
a modification of the examination-system will follow the reform of higher education; that a
reconciliation will be found between scientific work and the preparation for examinations;
and that thus the only grievance their opponents have against them will fall to the ground."
It is only doing justice to the foremost champion of reform to acknowledge that he was never
tired of insisting on the weak point; and in order to convince oneself that the examination
question has always been considered the key-stone of the problem of the organisation of higher
education in France, it is only necessary to look through the speeches and the articles entitled
"Education and Examinations," "Examinations and Study," "Study and Examinations," &c., which
M. Lavisse has collected in his three volumes published at intervals of five years from 1885
onwards: Questions d'enseignement national, Études et étudiants, A propos de nos écoles.

Thus the question of the reform of the examinations connected with higher education (licentiate,
agrégation, doctorate) has been placed on the order of the day. It was then in 1884; it is
still there in 1897. But, during the interval, visible progress has been made in the direction
which we consider the right one, and now a solution seems near.

IV. The old examination-system required candidates for degrees to show that they had received
an excellent secondary education. As it condemned those candidates, students receiving higher
instruction, to exercises of the same kind as those of which they had already had their fill
in the lycées, it was a simple matter to attack it. It was defended feebly, and has been demolished.

But how was it to be replaced? The problem was very complex. Is it any wonder that it was not
solved at a stroke?

First of all, it was important to come to an agreement on this preliminary question: What are
the capacities and what is the knowledge students should be required to give proof of possessing?
General knowledge? Technical knowledge and the capacity of doing original research (as at the
École des chartes and the École des hautes études)? Pedagogic capacity? It came gradually to
be recognised that, considering the great extent and variety of the class from which the students
are drawn, it is necessary to draw distinctions.

From candidates for the licentiate it is enough to require that they should give proof of good
general culture, permitting them at the same time, if they wish, to show that they have a taste
for, and some experience in, original research.

From the candidates for agrégation (licentia docendi) who have already obtained the licentiate,
there will be required (1) formal proof that they know, by experience, what it is to study
an historical problem, and that they have the technical knowledge necessary for such studies;
(2) proof of pedagogic capacity, which is a professional necessity for this class.

The students who are not candidates for anything, neither for the licentiate nor for agrégation,
and who are simply seeking to obtain scientific initiation--the old programmes did not contemplate
the existence of such a class of students--will merely be required to prove that they have
profited by the tuition and the advice they have received.

This settled, a great stride has been made. For programmes, as we know, regulate study. By
virtue of the authority of the programmes historical studies in the Faculties will now have
the threefold character which it is desirable that they should have. General culture will not
cease to be held in honour. Technical exercises in criticism and research will have their legitimate
place. Lastly, pedagogy (theoretical and practical) will not be neglected.

The difficulties begin when it is attempted to determine the tests which, in each department,
are the best, that is, the most conclusive. On this subject opinions differ. Though no one
now contests the principles, the modes of application which have hitherto been tried or suggested
do not meet with unanimous approval. The organisation of the licentiate has been revised three
times; the statute relating to the agrégation in history has been reformed or amended five
times. And this is not the end. New simplifications are imperative. But what is the importance
of this instability--of which, however, complaints begin to be heard[247]--if it is established,
as we believe it is, that progress towards a better state of things has been continuous through
all these changes, without any notable retrogression?

There is no need to explain here in detail the different transitory systems which have been
put into practice. We have had occasion to criticise them elsewhere.[248] Now that most of
what we objected to has been abolished, what is the use of reviving old controversies? We shall
not even mention the points in which the present system seems to us to be still capable of
improvement, for there is reason to hope that it will soon be modified, and in a very satisfactory
manner. Let it suffice to say that the Faculties now confer a new diploma, the Diplôme d'études
supérieures, which all the students have a right to seek, but which the candidates for agrégation
are obliged to obtain. This diploma of higher studies, analogous to that of the École des hautes
études, the brevet of the École des chartes, and the doctorate in philosophy at the German
universities, is given to those students of history who, qualified by a certain academical
standing, have passed an examination in which the principal tests are, besides questions on
the "sciences" auxiliary to historical research, the composition and the defence of an original
monograph. Every one now recognises that "the examination for the diploma of studies will yield
excellent fruit, if the vigilance and conscientiousness of examiners maintain it at its proper
value."[249]

V. To sum up, the attractions of preparation for degrees have brought the Faculties a host
of students. But, under the old system of examinations for the licentiate and for agrégation,
preparation for degrees was a task which did not harmonise very well with the work which the
Faculties deemed suitable for themselves, useful to their pupils, and advantageous to science.
The examination-system has therefore been perseveringly reformed, not without difficulty, into
conformity with a certain ideal of what the higher teaching of history ought to be. The result
is that the Faculties have taken rank among the institutions which contribute to the positive
progress of the historical sciences. An enumeration of the works which have appeared under
their auspices during the last few years would, if necessary, bear witness to the fact.

This evolution has already produced satisfactory results, and will produce more if it goes
on as well as it has begun. To begin with, the transformation of historical instruction in
the Faculties has brought about a corresponding transformation at the École normale supérieure.
The École normale has also, for two years, been awarding a "Diplôme d'études"; original researches,
pedagogic exercises, and general culture are encouraged there in the same degree as by the
new Faculties. It now differs from the Faculties only in being a close institution, recruited
under certain precautions; practically it is a Faculty like the others, but with a small number
of select students. Secondly, the École des hautes études and the École des chartes, both of
which will be installed at the end of 1897, in the renovated Sorbonne, have still their justification
for existence; for many specialists are represented at the École des hautes études which are
not, and doubtless never will be, represented in the Faculties; and, in the case of the studies
bearing on mediæval history, the body of converging instruction given at the École des chartes
will always be incomparable. But the old antagonism between the École des hautes études and
the École des chartes on the one hand, and the Faculties on the other, has disappeared. All
these institutions, lately so dissimilar, will henceforth co-operate for the purpose of carrying
on a common work in a common spirit. Each of these retains its name, its autonomy, and its
traditions; but together they form a whole: the historical section of an ideal University of
Paris, much vaster than the one which was sanctioned by the law in 1896. Of this "greater"
University, the École des chartes, the École des hautes études, the École normale supérieure,
and the whole body of historical instruction given by the Faculty of Letters, are now practically
so many independent "instituts."

INDEX OF PROPER NAMES

Abd-el-Kader, 282

Aimo, 158

Alexander the Great, 272

Alphonse of Poitiers, 227

Altamira, R., 328

Anselme, Père, 303

Ariovistus, 222

Aristophanes, 171

Aristotle, 44

Athenæus, 300

Bacon, Francis, 291

Bancroft, H. H., 19, 20, 22, 31

Barthélemy, Abbé, 301

Bast, F. J., 78

Bédier, J., 85, 112

Bernheim, E., 6, 7, 10, 13, 38, 56, 74, 91, 99, 100, 156, 182, 198, 237, 297

Blanchère, R., de la, 319

Blass, F., 74, 78, 79, 89, 92

Bodin, Jean, 44

Boeckh, A., 107, 152

Böhmer, J. F., 106

Bollandists, Society of, 35

Bonaventura, St., 88, 90

Bouché-Leclercq, A., 158

Boucherie, A., 113

Bourdeau, L., 275

Boutaric, E., 227

Boyce, W. B., 1

Bréquigny, L. G. O. F. de, 106

Broglie, E. de, 29

Brugière de Barante, A. G. P., 301

Brunetière, F., 113

Buchez, P. J. B., 1

Bühler, G., 56

Cæsar, Julius, 44, 194, 197, 218, 220, 222, 245

Cagnat, R., 57

Cantù, C., 311

Carlyle, Thomas, 132, 230, 303

Champollion, F., 48

Charles IX. of France, 168, 186

Chasles, M., 88

Chateaubriand, F. A. de, 72, 301

Chemosh, the god, 212

Chérot, H., 7

Chevalier, U., 5, 7

Chladenius, J. M., 6

Cicero, 44, 108

Cleopatra, 88, 248

Clovis, 158, 220, 223, 301

Cobet, C. C., 78

Coulanges, Fustel de, 1, 9, 10, 64, 140, 144, 148, 149, 150, 158, 170, 215, 216, 230

Cournot, A. A., 246, 249

Cousin, V., 286, 287

Curtius, G., 230, 314

Daniel, Père, 303

Daremberg, C. V., 308

Darius Hystaspes, 151

Daunou, P. C. F., 5, 6, 43, 47, 54, 55

Delisle, L., 23, 97

Deloche, J. E. M., 148

Demosthenes, 171

Dezobry, C. L., 302

Droysen, J. G., 3, 5, 7, 10, 106, 156, 158, 286, 314

Du Cange, C. du F., 105, 136, 148

Dumont, A., 341

Duruy, V., 327, 338, 339

Ebers, G., 301

Edward VI. of England, 249

Egger, E., 108

Eginhard, 94

Ephorus, 298

Eusebius, 298

Feillet, A., 162

Feugère, L., 105, 136

Fisher, H. A. L., 125

Flaubert, G., 5, 32, 304, 319

Flint, R., 2, 6, 8, 285

France, A., 319

Fredegonda, 197

Freeman, E. A., 5, 7, 10, 46

Froissart, Jean, 19

Froude, J. A., 125, 126

Geiger, W., 56

Gellius, Aulus, 300

Georgisch, P., 106

Giannone, Pietro, 104

Gibbon, E., 44

Gilbert, Gustav, 309

Giry, A., 57

Glasson, E., 149

Goethe, J. W. von, 19, 319

Gow, J., 75

Graux, C., 123

Gregory of Corinth, 78

Gregory of Tours, 144, 146, 158, 180, 198, 256

Gröber, G., 57, 310

Grote, G., 183, 310

Grotius, Hugo, 44

Guicciardini, Francesco, 44

Guiraud, P., 230

Hagen, H., 78

Hardouin, Père, 99

Harnack, A., 309

Havet, Julien, 12, 56, 97, 123, 128

Havet, Louis, 12

Hauréau, B., 84, 111, 118, 123

Hegel, G. W. F., 286

Henry VIII. of England, 249

Henry II. of France, 292

Henry, V., 289

Herodotus, 44, 171, 179, 197

Horace, 99

Hoveden, John, 88

Hroswitha, 99

Hugo, Victor, 88, 89

Hume, D., 44

Jaffé, P., 106

Jameson, J. F., 136

Jerome, St., 112

Jesus Christ, 188

Joan of Arc, 188

John, King of England, 187

Jullian, C., 297

Krumbacher, K., 309

Kuhn, E., 56

Lacombe, T., 2, 233, 241, 277, 288

Lamprecht, K., 230, 247, 284, 290, 314

Langlois, Ch. V., 19, 38, 111, 135, 192, 345

Lasch, B., 68

Laurent, F., 285

Lavisse, E., 134, 328, 333, 337, 341, 342

Lavoisier, A. L., 302

Leibnitz, G. W., 121, 122

Lee, Sidney, 308

Le Moyne, Père, 7

Lenglet de Fresnoy, N., 6

Leonardo da Vinci, 88, 89

Liard, L., 335, 341

Lindner, T., 81

Lindsay, W. M., 78, 79, 84

Livy, 44, 178, 180, 233, 297, 298

Locke, John, 44

Loebell, J. W., 180

Lorenz, O., 10

Loudun, the nuns of, 208

Louis VIII. of France, 187

Louis of Granada, 88

Luard, H. R., 98

Luther, Martin, 203

Mably, G. B. De, 43, 44

Macaulay, Lord, 303

Macchiavelli, N., 44

Madvig, J. N., 78

Mariani, L., 4

Marquardt, J., 309

Marselli, N., 2

Mary Magdalene, St., 88

Mary, Queen, 249

Matthew of Paris, 98

Matthew of Westminster, 97

Mayr, J. von, 274

Mérimée, P., 301

Mesha Inscription, the, 212

Meusel, H., 148

Meyer, E., 158

Meyer, P., 29

Mézeray, F. E. de, 298

Michelet, J., 230, 271, 286, 287, 301, 303, 327, 336

Möller, W., 309

Mommsen, T., 108, 118, 230, 286, 309, 314

Monod, G., 100, 144, 297, 302

Montesquieu, C. de S., 44, 257, 284, 299

Montfaucon, Père Bernard de, 29

Montgomery, Gabriel de, 292

Mortet, Ch. and V., 11

Mourin, E., 302

Müller, I. von, 56, 74, 310

Mylaeus, 6

Napoleon I., 26, 282

Newton, Isaac, 302

Niebuhr, B. G., 158, 182

Nietzsche, F., 319

Nitzsch, C. W., 180

Oncken, W., 311

Orosius, 298

Ossian, 91

Otto I., 175

Paris, G., 309

Patrizzi, Francesco, 6

Pattison, Mark, 115

Paul, H., 75, 310

Pauly, A., 308

Pausanias, 74

Peckham, John, 88

Peiresc, N. F. C. de, 22

Pflugk-Harttung, J. von, 10, 130

Philippi, A., 129

Piaget, A., 91

Pisistratus, 207

Plato, 153

Plutarch, 44, 297

Polybius, 44, 279, 297

Potthast, A., 106

Prou, M., 57

Ranke, L., 140, 286

Raynal, J., 44

Reinach, S., 75, 79

Renan, E., 9, 29, 30, 40, 105, 114, 119, 122, 132, 134, 183

Retz, Cardinal de, 44, 162, 169

Rilliet, A., 162

Robertson, J. M., 115, 241

Robertson, W., 44

Rocholl, R., 285

Rousseau, J. J., 44

Rulhière, C. C. de, 44

Saglio, E., 308

Saint-Simon, C. H. de, 251

Sallust, 44

Sanchoniathon, 91

Schiller, J. C. F. von, 162

Schlosser, F. C., 311

Schoemann, G. F., 309

Séguier, J. F., 109

Seignobos, Ch., 11, 66, 196, 257, 333, 334

Seneca, 78

Sforza, Ludovico, 282

Sickel, T. von, 56

Simmel, G., 217

Smedt, Père de, 10, 156, 207, 254

Spencer, Herbert, 287

Stephen, Leslie, 308

Stubbe, W., 10

Suetonius, 94

Suger, Abbot, 170

Suidas, 158

Sully, M., 169

Surville, Clotilde de, 91

Tacitus, 44, 141, 144, 171, 177, 194, 233, 256

Taine, H. A., 140, 143, 247, 286

Tardif, A., 5, 7, 156

Taylor, J., 75

Thierry, Augustin, 98, 140, 230, 259, 265, 301, 302, 303

Thomas, A., 73

Thucydides, 19, 44, 158, 183, 197, 297

Tobler, A., 75

Tschudi, J. H., 162, 171

Turenne, H. de la T. d'A., 162

Vercingetorix, 88

Vergil, 84, 99

Vertot, R. A. de, 44

Villemarqué, H. de, 181

Vincent de Paul, St. 326

Voltaire, F. M. A. de, 44, 299

Vrain-Lucas, 88

Waitz, G., 110, 118

Wallace, A. R., 207

Waltzing, J. P., 108

Wattenbach, W., 73

Wauters, A. C., 106

Weber, G., 311

Wegele, F. X. von, 122, 297

Wendover, Roger de, 98

Wissowa, G., 308

Wittekind, 175

Wright, T., 84

Xenophon, 44

Zumpt, A. W., 108

FOOTNOTES:

[1] W. B. Boyce, "Introduction to the Study of History, Civil, Ecclesiastical, and Literary,"
London, 1894, 8vo.

[2] For example, P. J. B. Buches, in his Introduction à la science de l'histoire, Paris, 1842,
2 vols. 8vo.

[3] The history of the attempts which have been made to understand and explain philosophically
the history of humanity has been undertaken, as is well known, by Robert Flint. Mr. Flint has
already given the history of the Philosophy of History in French-speaking countries: "Historical
Philosophy in France and French Belgium and Switzerland," Edinburgh and London, 1893, 8vo.
It is the first volume of the expanded re-edition of his "History of the Philosophy of History
in Europe," published twenty-five years ago. Compare the retrospective (or historical) part
of the work of N. Marselli, La scienza della storia, i., Torino, 1873. Cf. Revue Critique,
1895, i. p. 132.

[4] Revue Critique d'histoire et de littérature, 1892, i. p. 164.

[5] Revue Critique d'histoire et de littérature, 1888, ii. p. 295. Cf. Le Moyen Age, x. (1897),
p. 91: "These books [treatises on historical method] are seldom read by those to whom they
might be useful, amateurs who devote their leisure to historical research; and as to professed
scholars, it is from their masters' lessons that they have learnt to know and handle the tools
of their trade, leaving out of consideration the fact that the method of history is the same
as that of the other sciences of observation, the gist of which can be stated in a few words.

[6] In accordance with the principle that historical method can only be taught by example,
L. Mariani has given the humorous title Corso pratico di metodologia della storia to a dissertation
on a detail in the history of Fermo. See the Archivio della Società romana di storia patria,
xiii. (1890), p. 211.

[7] See an account of Freeman's work, "The Methods of Historical Study," in the Revue Critique,
1887, i. p. 376. This work, says the critic, is empty and commonplace. We learn from it "that
history is not so easy a study as many fondly imagine, that it has points of contact with all
the sciences, and that the historian truly worthy of the name ought to know everything; that
historical certitude is unattainable, and that, in order to make the nearest approach to it,
it is necessary to have constant recourse to the original sources; that it is necessary to
know and use the best modern historians, but never to take their word for gospel. That is all."
He concludes: Freeman "without a doubt taught historical method far better by example than
he ever succeeded in doing by precept."

Compare Bouvard et Pécuchet, by G. Flaubert. Here we have two simpletons who, among other projects,
propose to write history. In order to help them, one of their friends sends them (p. 156) "rules
of criticism taken from the Cours of Daunou," such as: "It is no proof to appeal to rumour
and common opinion; the witnesses cannot appear. Reject impossibilities: Pausanias was shown
the stone swallowed by Saturn. Keep in mind the skill of forgers, the interest of apologists
and calumniators." Daunou's work contains a number of truisms quite as obvious, and still more
comic than the above.

[8] Flint (ibid. p. 15) congratulates himself on not having to study the literature of Historic,
for "a very large portion of it is so trivial and superficial that it can hardly ever have
been of use even to persons of the humblest capacity, and may certainly now be safely confined
to kindly oblivion." Nevertheless, Flint has given in his book a summary list of the principal
works of this kind published in French-speaking countries from the earliest times. A more general
and complete account (though still a summary one) of the literature of this subject in all
countries is furnished by the Lehrbuch der historischen Methode of E. Bernheim (Leipzig, 1894,
8vo), pp. 143 sqq. Flint (who was acquainted with several works unknown to Bernheim) stops
at 1893, Bernheim at 1894. Since 1889 the Jahresberichte der Geschichtswissenschaft have contained
a periodical account of recent works on historical methodology.

[9] This seventh volume was published in 1844. But Daunou's celebrated Cours was delivered
at the Collège de France in the years 1819-30.

[10] The Italians of the Renaissance (Mylæns, Francesco Patrizzi, and others), and after them
the writers of the last two centuries, ask what is the relation of history to dialectic and
rhetoric; to how many laws the historical branch of literature is subject; whether it is right
for the historian to relate treasons, acts of cowardice, crimes, disorders; whether history
is entitled to use any style other than the sublime; and so on. The only books on Historic,
published before the nineteenth century, which give evidence of any original effort to attack
the real difficulties, are those of Lenglet de Fresnoy (Méthode pour étudier l'histoire, Paris,
1713), and of J. M. Chladenius (Allgemeine Geschichtswissenschaft, Leipzig, 1752). The work
of Chladenius has been noticed by Bernheim (ibid. p. 166).

[11] He has not always shown even good sense, for, in the Cours d'études historiques (vii.
p. 105), where he treats of a work, De l'histoire, published in 1670 by Père Le Moyne, a feeble
production, to say the least, bearing evident traces of senility, he expresses himself as follows:
"I cannot adopt all the maxims and precepts contained in this treatise; but I believe that,
after that of Lucian, it is the best we have yet seen, and I greatly doubt whether any of those
whose acquaintance we have still to make has risen to the same height of philosophy and originality."
Père H. Chérot has given a sounder estimate of the treatise De l'histoire in his Étude sur
la vie et les oeuvres du P. Le Moyne (Paris, 1887, 8vo), pp. 406 sqq.

[12] Bernheim declares, however (ibid. p. 177), that this little work is, in his opinion, the
only one which stands at the present level of science.

[13] Flint says very well (ibid. p. 15): "The course of Historic has been, on the whole, one
of advance from commonplace reflection on history towards a philosophical comprehension of
the conditions and processes on which the formation of historical science depends.

[14] By P. Guiraud, in the Revue des Deux Mondes, March 1896, p. 75.

[15] Renan has said some of the truest and best things that have ever been said on the historical
sciences in L'Avenir de la science (Paris, 1890, 8vo), written in 1848.

[16] Some of the most ingenious, some of the most logical, and some of the most widely applicable
observations, on the method of the historical sciences, have so far appeared, not in books
on methodology, but in the reviews--of which the Revue Critique d'histoire et de littérature
is the type--devoted to the criticism of new works of history and erudition. It is a very useful
exercise to run through the file of the Revue Critique, founded, at Paris, in 1867, "to enforce
respect for method, to execute justice upon bad books, to check misdirected and superfluous work."

[17] The first edition of the Lehrbuch is dated 1889.

[18] The best work that has hitherto been published (in French) on historical method is a pamphlet
by MM. Ch. and V. Mortet, La Science de l'histoire (Paris, 1894, 8vo), 88 pp., extracted from
vol. xx. of the Grande Encyclopédie.

[19] One of us, M. Seignobos, proposes to publish later on a complete treatise of Historical
Methodology, if there appears to be a public for this class of work.

[20] It cannot be too often stated that the study of history, as it is prosecuted at school,
does not presuppose the same aptitudes as the same study when prosecuted at the university
or in after life. Julien Havet, who afterwards devoted himself to the (critical) study of history,
found history wearisome at school. "I believe," says M. L. Havet, "that the teaching of history
[in schools] is not organised in such a manner as to provide sufficient nourishment for the
scientific spirit.... Of all the studies comprised in our school curricula, history is the
only one in which the pupil is not being continually called upon to verify something. When
he is learning Latin or German, every sentence in a translation requires him to verify a dozen
different rules. In the various branches of mathematics the results are never divorced from
their proofs; the problems, too, compel the pupil to think through the whole for himself. Where
are the problems in history, and what schoolboy is ever trained to gain by independent effort
an insight into the interconnection of events?" (Bibliothèque de l'École des chartes, 1896, p. 84).

[21] M. Langlois wrote Book I., Book II. as far at Chapter VI., the second Appendix, and this
Preface; M. Seignobos the end of Book II., Book III., and the first Appendix. Chapter I. in
the second book, Chapter V. of the third book, and the Conclusion, were written in common.

[22] In practice one does not as a rule resolve to treat a point of history before knowing
whether there are or are not documents in existence which enable it to be studied. On the contrary,
it is the accidental discovery of a document which suggests the idea of thoroughly elucidating
the point of history to which it relates, and thus leads to the collection, for this purpose,
of other documents of the same class.

[23] It is pitiable to see how the best of the early scholars struggled bravely, but vainly,
to solve problems which would not even have existed for them if their collections had not been
so incomplete. This lack of material was a disadvantage for which the most brilliant ingenuity
could not compensate.

[24] "How hard it is to gain the means whereby we mount to the sources" (Goethe, Faust, i. 3).

[25] See C. V. Langlois, H. H. Bancroft et Cie., in the Revue universitaire, 1894, i. p. 233.

[26] The earlier scholars were conscious of the unfavourable character of the conditions under
which they worked. They suffered keenly from the insufficiency of the instruments of research
and the means of comparison. Most of them made great efforts to obtain information. Hence these
voluminous correspondences between scholars of the last few centuries, of which our libraries
preserve so many precious fragments, and these accounts of scientific searches, of journeys
undertaken for the discovery of historical documents, which, under the name of Iter (Iter Italicum,
Iter Germanicum, &c.), were formerly fashionable.

[27] We may remark, in passing, a delusion which is childish enough but very natural, and very
common among collectors: they all tend to exaggerate the intrinsic value of the documents they
possess, simply because they themselves are the possessors. Documents have been published with
a sumptuous array of commentaries by persons who had accidentally acquired them, and who would,
quite rightly, have attached no importance to them if they had met with them in public collections.
This is, we may add, merely a manifestation, in a somewhat crude form, of a general tendency
against which it is always necessary to guard: a man readily exaggerates the importance of
the documents he possesses, the documents he has discovered, the texts he has edited, the persons
and the questions he has studied. 4to. The histories of ancient depositories of documents,
which have been recently published in considerable number, have been modelled on this admirable
work.

[29] Many of the ancient documents still in circulation are the proceeds of ancient thefts
from state institutions. The precautions now taken against a recurrence of such depredations
are stringent, and, in nearly every instance, as effective as could be desired.

As to modern (printed) documents, the rule of legal deposit [compulsory presentation of copies
to specified libraries], which has now been adopted by nearly all civilised countries, guarantees
their preservation in public institutions.

[30] It is known that Napoleon I. entertained the chimerical design of concentrating at Paris
the archives of the whole of Europe, and that, for a beginning, he conveyed to that city the
archives of the Vatican, the Holy Roman Empire, the crown of Castile, and others, which later
on the French were compelled to restore. Confiscation is now out of the question. But the ancient
archives of the notaries might be centralised everywhere, as in some countries they are already,
in public institutions. It is not easy to explain why at Paris the departments of Foreign Affairs,
of War, and of Marine preserve ancient papers whose natural place would be at the Archives
Nationales. A great many more anomalies of this kind might be mentioned, which in certain cases
impede, where they do not altogether preclude, research; for the small collections, whose existence
is not required, are precisely those whose regulations are the most oppressive.

[31] The international exchange of documents is worked in Europe (without charge to the public)
by the agency of the various Foreign Offices. Besides this, most of the great institutions
have agreements with each other for mutual loans; this system is as sure and sometimes more
rapid in its operation than the diplomatic system. The question of lending original documents
for use outside the institution where they are preserved has of late years been frequently
mooted at congresses of historians and librarians. The results so far obtained are eminently
satisfactory.

[32] These are sometimes large collections of formidable bulk; it is more natural to undertake
the cataloguing of small accumulations which demand less labor. It is for the same reason that
many insignificant but short cartularies have been published, while several cartularies of
the highest importance, being voluminous, have still to be edited.

[33] See his autobibliography, published by E. de Broglie, Bernard de Montfaucon et les Bernardins,
ii. (Paris, 1891, 8vo), p. 323.

[34] E. Renan, L'Avenir de la science, p. 217.

[35] Romania, xxi. (1892), p. 625.

[36] In the passage quoted above.

[37] Mr. H. H. Bancroft, in his Memoirs, entitled "Literary Industries" (New York, 1891, 16mo),
analyses with sufficient minuteness some practical consequences of the imperfection of the
methods of research. He considers the case of an industrious writer proposing to write the
history of California. He easily procures a few books, reads them, takes notes; these books
refer him to others, which he consults in the public libraries of the city where he resides.
Several years are passed in this manner, at the end of which he perceives that he has not a
tenth part of the resources in his hands; he travels, maintains correspondences, but, finally
despairing of exhausting the subject, he comforts his conscience and pride with the reflection
that he has done much, and that many of the works he has not seen, like many of those he has,
are probably of very slight historic value. As to newspapers and the myriads of United States
government reports, all of them containing facts bearing on Californian history; being a sane
man, he has never dreamed of searching them from beginning to end: he has turned over a few
of them, that is all; he knows that each of these fields of research would afford a labour
of several years, and that all of them would fill the better part of his life with drudgery.
As for oral testimony and manuscripts, he will gather a few unpublished anecdotes in chance
conversations; he will obtain access to a few family papers; all this will appear in his book
as notes and authorities. Now and again he will get hold of a few documentary curiosities among
the state archives, but as it would take fifteen years to master the whole collection, he will
naturally be content to glean a little here and there. Then he begins to write. He does not
feel called upon to inform the public that he has not seen all the documents; on the contrary,
he makes the most of what he has been able to procure in the course of twenty-five years of
industrious research.

[38] Some dispense with personal search by invoking the assistance of the functionaries charged
with the administration of depositories of documents; the indispensable search is, in these
cases, conducted by the functionaries instead of by the public. Cf. Bouvard et Pécuchet, p.
158. Bouvard and Pécuchet resolve to write the life of the Duke of Angoulême; for this purpose
"they determined to spend several days at the municipal library of Caen to make researches.
The librarian placed general histories and pamphlets at their disposal...."

[39] These considerations have already been presented and developed in the Revue universitaire,
1894, i. p. 321 sqq.

[40] It is well known that, since the opening of the Papal Archives, several governments and
learned societies have established Institutes at Rome, the members of which are, for the most
part, occupied in cataloguing and making known the documents of these archives, in co-operation
with the functionaries of the Vatican. The French School at Rome, the Austrian Institute, the
Prussian Institute, the Polish Mission, the Institute of the "Goerresgesellschaft," Belgian,
Danish, Spanish, Portuguese, Russian, and other scholars, have performed, and are performing,
cataloguing work of considerable extent in the archives of the Vatican.

[41] Catalogues of documents sometimes, but not always, mention the fact that such and such
a document has been edited, dealt with critically, utilised. The generally received rule is
that the compiler mentions circumstances of this kind when he is aware of them, without imposing
on himself the enormous task of ascertaining the truth on this head[sic] in every instance
where he is ignorant of it.

[42] E. Bernheim, Lehrbuch der historischen Methode, 2nd ed., pp. 196-202.

[43] C. V. Langlois, Manuel de Bibliographie historique: I. Instruments bibliographiques, Paris,
1896, 16mo.

[44] E. Renan, Feuilles détachées (Paris, 1892, 8vo), pp. 96 sqq.

[45] vii. p. 228 sqq.

[46] E. A. Freeman, The Methods of Historical Study (London, 1885, 8vo), p. 45.

In France geography has long been regarded as a science closely related to history. An Agrégation,
which combines history and geography, exists at the present day, and in the lycées history
and geography are taught by the same professors. Many people persist in asserting the legitimacy
of this combination, and even take umbrage when it is proposed to separate two branches of
knowledge united, as they say, by many essential connecting links. But it would be hard to
find any good reason, or any facts of experience, to prove that a professor of history, or
an historian, is so much the better the more he knows of geology, oceanography, climatology,
and the whole group of geographical sciences. In fact, it is with some impatience, and to no
immediate advantage, that students of history work through the courses of geography which their
curricula force upon them; and those students who have a real taste for geography would be
very glad to throw history overboard. The artificial union of history with geography dates
back, in France, to an epoch when geography was an ill-defined and ill-arranged subject, regarded
by all as a negligeable branch of study. It is a relic of antiquity that we ought to get rid
of at once.

[47] "Historiography" is a branch of the "History of Literature;" it is the sum of the results
obtained by the critics who have hitherto studied ancient historical writings, such as annals,
memoirs, chronicles, biographies, and so forth.

[48] This is only true under reservation; there is an instrument of research which is indispensable
to all historians, to all students, whatever be the subject of their special study. History,
moreover, is here in the same situation as the majority of the other sciences: all who prosecute
original research, of whatever kind, need to know several living languages, those of countries
where men think and work, of countries which, from the point of view of science, stand in the
forefront of contemporary civilisation.

In our days the cultivation of the sciences is not confined to any single country, or even
to Europe. It is international. All problems, the same problems, are being studied everywhere
simultaneously. It is difficult to-day, and to-morrow it will be impossible, to find a subject
which can be treated without taking cognisance of works in a foreign language. Henceforth,
for ancient history, Greek and Roman, a knowledge of German will be as imperative as a knowledge
of Greek and Latin. Questions of strictly local history are the only ones still accessible
to those who do not possess the key to foreign literatures. The great problems are beyond their
reach, for the wretched and ridiculous reason that works on these problems in any language
but their own are sealed books to them.

Total ignorance of the languages which have hitherto been the ordinary vehicles of science
(German, English, French, Italian) is a disease which age renders incurable. It would not be
exacting too much to require every candidate for a scientific profession to be at least trilinguis--that
is, to be able to understand, fairly easily, two languages besides his mother-tongue. This
is a requirement to which scholars were not subject formerly, when Latin was still the common
language of learned men, but which the conditions of modern scientific work will henceforth
cause to press with increasing weight upon the scholars of every country.[*]

[*] Perhaps a day will come when it will be necessary to know the most important Slavonic language;
there are already scholars who are setting themselves to learn Russian. The idea of restoring
Latin to its old position of universal language is chimerical. See the file of the Phoenix,
seu nuntius latinus universalis (London, 1891, 4to).

The French scholars who are unable to read German and English are thereby placed in a position
of permanent inferiority as compared with their better instructed colleagues in France and
abroad; whatever their merit, they are condemned to work with insufficient means of information,
to work badly. They know it. They do their best to hide their infirmity, as something to be
ashamed of, except when they make a cynical parade of it and boast of it; but this boasting,
as we can easily see, is only shame showing itself in a different way. Too much stress cannot
be laid upon the fact that a practical knowledge of foreign languages is auxiliary in the first
degree to all historical work, as indeed it is to scientific work in general.

[49] When the "auxiliary sciences" were first inserted in the curricula of French universities,
it was observed that some students whose special subject was the French Revolution, and who
had no interest whatever in the middle ages, took up palæography as an "auxiliary science,"
and that some students of geography, who were in no way interested in antiquity, took up epigraphy.
Evidently they had failed to understand that the study of the "auxiliary sciences" is recommended,
not as an end in itself, but because it is of practical utility to those who devote themselves
to certain special subjects. See the Revue universitaire, 1895, ii. p. 123.

[50] On this point note the opinions of T. von Sickel and J. Havet, quoted in the Bibliothèque
l'École des chartes, 1896, p. 87. In 1854 the Austrian Institute "für österreichische Geschichtsforschung"
was organised on the model of the French École des chartes. Another institution of the same
type has lately been created in the "Istituto di studi superiori" at Florence. "We are accustomed,"
we read in England, "to hear the complaint that there is not in this country any institution
resembling the École des chartes" (Quarterly Review, July 1896, p. 122).

[51] This is a suitable place to enumerate the principal "manuals" published in the last twenty-five
years. But a list of them, ending at 1894, will be found in Bernheim's Lehrbuch, pp. 206 sqq.
We will only refer to the great "manuals" of "Philology" (in the comprehensive sense of the
German "Philologie," which includes the history of language and literature, epigraphy, palæography,
and all that pertains to textual criticism) now in course of publication: the Grundriss far
indo-arischen Philologie und Altertumskunde, edited by G. Bühler; the Grundriss der iranischen
Philologie, edited by W. Geiger and E. Kuhn; the Handbuch der classichen Altertumswissenschaft,
edited by I. von Müller; the Grundriss der germanischen Philologie, edited by H. Paul, the
second edition of which began to appear in 1896; the Grundriss der romanischen Philologie,
edited y G. Gröber. In these vast repertories there will be found, along with a short presentment
of the subject, complete bibliographical references, direct as well as indirect.

[52] The French "manuals" of MM. Prou (Palæography), Giry (Diplomatic), Cagnat (Latin Epigraphy),
and others, have diffused among the public the idea and knowledge of the auxiliary subjects
of study. New editions have enabled, and will enable, them to be kept up to date--a very necessary
operation, for most of these subjects, though now settled in the main, are being enriched and
made more precise every day. Cf. supra, p. 38.

[53] What exactly are we to understand by this "incommunicable knowledge," of which we speak?
When a specialist is very familiar with the documents of a given class or period, associations
of ideas are formed in his brain; and when he examines a new document of the same class or
species, analogies suddenly dawn upon him which would escape any one of less experience, however
well furnished he might be with the most perfect repertories. The fact is, that not all the
peculiarities of documents can be isolated; there are some which cannot be classified under
any intelligible head, and which, therefore, cannot be found in any tabulated list. But the
human memory, when it is good, retains the impression of these peculiarities, and even a faint
and distant stimulus suffices to revive the apprehension of them.

[54] Supra, p. 17.

[55] This expression, which frequently occurs, needs explanation. It is not to be taken to
apply to a species of facts. There are no historical facts in the sense in which we speak of
chemical facts. The same fact is or is not historical according to the manner in which it is
known. It is only the mode of acquiring knowledge that is historical. A sitting of the Senate
is a fact of direct observation for one who takes part in it; it becomes historical for the
man who reads about it in a report. The eruption of Vesuvius in the time of Pliny is a geological
fact which is known historically. The historical character is not in the facts, but in the
manner of knowing them.

[56] Fustel de Coulanges has said it. Cf. supra, p. 4, note 1.

[57] In the sciences of observation it is the fact itself, observed directly, which is the
starting-point.

[58] Infra, ch. vii.

[59] We shall not treat specially of the criticism of material documents (objects, monuments,
&c.) where it differs from the criticism of written documents.

[60] For the details and the logical justification of this method see Seignobos, Les Conditions
psychologiques de la connaissance en histoire, in the Revue philosophique, 1887, ii. pp. 1, 168.

[61] The most favourable case, that in which the document has been drawn up by what is called
an ocular "witness," is still far short of the ideal required for scientific knowledge. The
notion of witness has been borrowed from the procedure of the law-courts; reduced to scientific
terms, it becomes that of an observer. A testimony is an observation. But, in point of fact,
historical testimony differs materially from scientific observation. The observer proceeds
by fixed rules, and clothes his report in language of rigorous precision. On the other hand,
the "witness" observes without method, and reports in unprecise language; it is not known whether
he has taken the necessary precautions. It is an essential attribute of historical documents
that they come before us as the result of work which has been done without method and without
guarantee.

[62] See B. Lasch, Das Erwachen und die Entwickelung der historischen Kritik im Mittelalter
(Breslan, 1887, 8vo).

[63] Natural credulity is deeply rooted in indolence. It is easier to believe than to discuss,
to admit than to criticise, to accumulate documents than to weigh them. It is also pleasanter;
he who criticises documents must sacrifice some of them, and such a sacrifice seems a dead
loss to the man who has discovered or acquired the document.

[64] Revue philosophique, l.c., p. 178.

[65] A member of the Société des humanistes français (founded at Paris in 1894) amused himself
by pointing out, in the Bulletin of this society, certain errors amenable to verbal criticism
which occur in various editions of posthumous works, especially the Mémoires d'outre-tombe.
He showed that it is possible to remove obscurities in the most modern documents by the same
methods which are used in restoring ancient texts.

[66] On the habits of the mediæval copyists, by whose intermediate agency most of the literary
works of antiquity have come down to us, see the notices collected by W. Wattenbach, Das Schriftwesen
im Mittelalter, 3rd ed. (Berlin, 1896, 8vo).

[67] See, for example, the Coquilles lexicographiques which have been collected by A. Thomas,
in Romania, xx. (1891), pp. 464 sqq. Also consult F. Blass, in the Handbuch der klassischen
Altertumswissenschaft, edited by I. von Müller, I., 2nd ed. (1892), pp. 249-89 (with a detailed
bibliography); A. Tobler, in the Grundriss der romanischen Philologie, I. (1888), pp. 253-63;
H. Paul, in the Grundriss der germanischen Philologie, I., 2nd ed. (1896), pp. 184-96.

In French read the section Critique des textes, in Minerva, Introduction à l'étude des classiques
scolaires grecs et latins, by J. Gow and S. Reinach (Paris, 1890, 16mo), pp. 50-65.

The work of J. Taylor, "History of the Transmission of Ancient Books to Modern Times" (Liverpool,
1889, 16mo), is of no value.

[69] This rule is not absolute. The editor is generally accorded the right of unifying the
spelling of an autograph document--provided that he informs the public of the fact--wherever,
as in most modern documents, the orthographical vagaries of the author possess no philological
interest. See the Instructions pour la publication des textes historiques, in the Bulletin
de la Commission royale d'histoire de Belgique, 5th series, vi. (1896); and the Grundsätze
für die Herausgabe von Actenstücken zur neueren Geschichte, laboriously discussed by the second
and third Congresses of German historians, in 1894 and 1895, in the Deutsche Zeitschrift für
Geschichtswissenschaft, xi. p. 200, xii. p. 364. The last Congresses of Italian historians,
held at Genoa (1893) and at Rome (1895), have also debated this question, but without result.
What are the liberties which it is legitimate to take in reproducing autograph texts? The question
is more difficult than is imagined by those who are not professionally concerned with it.

[70] Interpolations will be treated of in chapter iii p. 92.

[71] The scribes of the Carlovingian Renaissance and of the Renaissance proper of the fifteenth
century endeavoured to furnish intelligible texts. They therefore corrected everything they
did not understand. Several ancient works have been in this manner irretrievably ruined.

[72] The principal of these are, for the classical languages, besides the above-mentioned work
of Blass (supra, p. 74, note), the Adversaria critica of Madvig (Copenhagen, 1871-74, 3 vols.
8vo). For Greek, the celebrated Commentatio palæographica of F. J. Bast, published as an appendix
to an edition of the grammarian Gregory of Corinth (Leipzig, 1811, 8vo), and the Variæ lectiones
of Cobet (Leiden, 1873, 8vo). For Latin, H. Hagen, Gradus ad criticen (Leipzig, 1879, 8vo),
and W. M. Lindsay, "An Introduction to Latin Textual Emendation based on the Text of Plautus"
(London, 1896, 16mo). A contributor to the Bulletin de la Société des humanistes français has
expressed, in this publication, a wish that a similar collection might be compiled for modern
French.

[73] Cf. Revue Critique, 1895, ii. p. 358.

[74] Quite recently our scholars used to neglect this elementary precaution, in order, as they
said, to avoid an "air of pedantry." M. B. Hauréau has published, in his Notices et extraits
de quelques manuscrits latins de la Bibliothèque nationale (vi. p. 310), a piece of rhythmic
verse, "De presbytero et logico." "It is not unedited," says he; "Thomas Wright has already
published it.... But this edition is very defective; the text is occasionally quite unintelligible.
We have, therefore, considerably amended it, making use, for this purpose, of two copies, which,
it most be conceded, are neither of them faultless...." The edition follows, with no variants.
Verification is impossible.

[75] "Textual emendation too often misses the mark through want of knowledge of what may be
called the rules of the game" (W. M. Lindsay, p.v. in the work referred to above).

[76] It has often been asked whether all texts are worth the trouble of "establishing" and
publishing them. "Among our ancient texts," says M. J. Bédier, referring to French mediæval
literature, "which ought we to publish? Every one. But, it will be asked, are we not already
staggering under the weight of documents?... The following is the reason why publication should
be exhaustive. As long as we are confronted by this mass of sealed and mysterious manuscripts,
they will appeal to us as if they contained the answer to every riddle; every candid mind will
be hampered by them in its flights of induction. It is desirable to publish them, if only to
get rid of them and to be able, for the future, to work as if they did not exist...." (Revue
des Deux Mondes, February 15, 1894, p. 910). All documents ought to be catalogued, as we have
already pointed out (p. 31), in order that researchers may be relieved of the fear that there
may be documents, useful for their purposes, of which they know nothing. But in every case
where a summary analysis of a document can give a sufficient idea of its contents, and its
form is of no special interest, there is nothing gained by publishing it in extenso. We need
not overburden ourselves. Every document will be analysed some day, but many documents will
never be published.

[77] Editors of texts often render their task still longer and more difficult than it need
be by undertaking the additional duty of commentators, under the pretext of explaining the
text. It would be to their advantage to spare themselves this labour, and to dispense with
all annotation which does not belong to the "apparatus criticus" proper. See, on this point,
T. Lindner, Ueber die Herausgabe von geschichtlichen Quellen, in the Mittheilungen des Instituts
für österreichische Geschichtsforschung, xvi., 1895, pp. 501 sqq.

[78] To realise this it is enough to compare what has hitherto been done by the most active
societies, such as the Society of the Monumenta Germaniæ historica and the Istituto storico
italiano, with what still remains for them to do. The greater part of the most ancient documents
and the hardest to restore, which have long taxed the ingenuity of scholars, have now been
placed in a relatively satisfactory condition. But an immense amount of mechanical work has
still to be done.

[79] R. de Gourmont, Le Latin mystique (Paris, 1891, 8vo), p. 258.

[80] See these alleged autographs in the Bibliothèque nationale, nouv. acq. fr., No. 709.

[81] F. Blass has enumerated the chief of these motives with reference to the pseudepigraphic
literature of antiquity (pp. 269 sqq. in the work already quoted).

[82] E. Bernheim (Lehrbuch, pp. 243 sqq.) gives a somewhat lengthy list of spurious documents,
now recognised as such. Here it will be enough to recall a few famous hoaxes: Sarchoniathon,
Clotilde de Surville, Ossian. Since the publication of Bernheim's book several celebrated documents,
hitherto exempt from suspicion, have been struck off the list of authorities. See especially
A. Piaget, La Chronique des chanoines de Neuchâtel (Neuchâtel, 1896, 8vo).

[83] When the modifications of the primitive text are the work of the author himself, they
are "alterations." Internal analysis, and the comparison of different editions, bring them
to light.

[84] See F. Blass, ibid., pp. 254 sqq.

[85] As a rule it matters little whether the name of the author has or has not been discovered.
We read, however, in the Histoire littéraire de la France (xxvi. p. 388): "We have ignored
anonymous sermons: writings of this facile character are of no importance for literary history
when their authors are unknown." Are they of any more importance when we know the authors' names?

[86] In very favourable cases the examination of the plagiarist's mistakes has made it possible
to determine even this style of handwriting, the size, and the manner of arrangement of the
manuscript source. The deductions of the investigation of sources, like those of textual criticism,
are sometimes supported by obvious palæographical considerations.

[87] The Investigations of Julien Havet (Questions mérovingiennes, Paris, 1896, 8vo) are regarded
as models. Very difficult problems are there solved with faultless elegance. It is also well
worth while to read the memoirs in which M. L. Delisle has discussed questions of origin. It
is in the treatment of these questions that the most accomplished scholars win their triumphs.

[88] See the edition of H. R. Luard (vol. i., London, 1890, 8vo) in the Rerum Britannicarum
medii ævi scriptores. Matthew of Westminster's Flores historiarum figure in the Roman "Index,"
because of the passages borrowed from the Chronica majora of Matthew of Paris, while the Chronica
majora themselves have escaped censure. Nothing amuses the gallery more than to see an historian
convicted of having built a theory on falsified documents. Nothing is more calculated to cover
an historian with confusion than to find that he has fallen into the error of treating seriously
documents which are no documents at all.

[90] One of the crudest (and commonest) forms of "uncritical method" is that which consists
in employing as if they were documents, and placing on the same footing as documents, the utterances
of modern authors on the subject of documents. Novices do not make a sufficient distinction,
in the works of modern authors, between what is added to the original source and what is taken
from it.

[91] See a list of examples in Bernheim's Handbuch, pp. 283, 289.

[92] It is because it is necessary to subject documents of mediæval and ancient history to
the most searching criticism in respect of authorship that the study of antiquity and the middle
ages passes for more "scientific" than that of modern times. The truth is, that it is merely
hampered by more preliminary difficulties.

[93] Revue philosophique, 1887, ii. p. 170.

[94] The theory of the critical investigation of authorship is now settled, ne varietur; it
is given in detail in Bernheim's Lehrbuch, pp. 242-340. For this reason we have had no scruple
in dismissing it with a short sketch. In French, the introduction of M. G. Monod to his Études
critiques sur les sources de l'histoire mérovingienne (Paris, 1872, 8vo) contains elementary
considerations on the subject. Cf. Revue Critique, 1873, i. p. 308.

[95] Renan, Feuilles détachées, p. 103.

[96] It would be very interesting to have information on the methods of work of the great scholars,
particularly those who undertook long tasks of collection and classification. Some information
of this kind is to be found in their papers, and occasionally in their correspondence. On the
methods of Du Cange, see L. Feugère, Étude sur la vie et les ouvrages de Du Cange (Paris, 1858,
8vo), pp. 62 sqq.

[97] See J. G. Droysen, Grundriss der Historik, p. 19: "Critical classification does not exclusively
adopt the chronological point of view.... The more varied the points of view which criticism
uses to group materials, the more solid are the results yielded by converging lines of inquiry."

The system has now been abandoned of grouping documents in a Corpus or in regesta, as was done
formerly, because they have the common characteristic of being unedited, or possibly for the
exactly opposite reason. At one time the compilers of Analecta, Reliquiæ manuscriptorum, "treasuries
of anecdota," spicilegia, and so on, used to publish all the documents of a certain class which
had the common feature of being unedited and of appearing interesting to them; on the other
hand, Georgisch (Regesta Chronologico-diplomatica), Bréquigny (Table chronologique des diplômes,
chartes et actes imprimés concernant l'histoire de France), Wauters (Table chronologique des
chartes et diplômes imprimés concernant l'histoire de Belgique), have grouped together all
the documents of a certain species which had the common character of having been printed.

[98] J. P. Waltzing, Recueil général des inscriptions latines (Louvain, 1892, 8vo), p. 41.

[99] Ibid. When the geographical order is adopted, a difficulty arises from the fact that the
origin of certain documents is unknown; many inscriptions preserved in museums have been brought
there no one knows whence. The difficulty is analogous to that which results, for chronological
regesta, from documents without date.

[100] Here the only difficulty arises in the case of documents whose incipit has been lost.
In the eighteenth century Séguier devoted a great part of his life to the construction of a
catalogue, in the alphabetical order of the incipit, of the Latin inscriptions, to the number
of 50,000, which had at that time been published: he searched through some twelve thousand
works. This vast compilation has remained unpublished and useless. Before undertaking work
of such magnitude it is well to make sure that it is on a rational plan, and that the labour--the
hard and thankless labour--will not be wasted.

[101] See G. Waitz, Ueber die Herausgabe und Bearbeitung von Regesten, in the Historische Zeitschrift,
xl. (1878), pp. 280-95.

[102] In the absence of a predetermined logical order, and when the chronological order is
not suitable, it is sometimes an advantage to provisionally group the documents (that is, the
slips) in the alphabetical order of the words chosen as headings (Schlagwörter). This is what
is called the "dictionary system."

[103] See Langlois, Manuel de bibliographie historique, i. p. 88.

[104] This argument is easy to develop, and often has been, recently by M. J. Bédier, in the
Revue des Deux Mondes, February 15, 1894, pp. 932 sqq.

There are some who willingly admit that the labours of erudition are useful, but ask impatiently
whether "the editing of a text" or "the deciphering of a Gothic parchment" is "the supreme
effort of the human mind," and whether the intellectual ability implied by the practice of
external criticism does or does not justify "all the fuss made over those who possess it."
On this question, obviously devoid of importance, a controversy was held between M. Brunetière,
who recommended scholars to be modest, and M. Boucherie, who insisted on their reasons for
being proud, in the pages of the Revue des langues romanes, 1880, vols. i and ii.

[105] There have been men who were critics of the first water where external criticism alone
was concerned, but who never rose to the conception of higher criticism, or to a true understanding
of history.

[106] Renan, Essais de morale et de critique, p. 36.

[107] "If it were only for the sake of the severe mental discipline, I should not think very
highly of the philosopher who had not, at least once in his life, worked at the elucidation
of some special point" (L'Avenir de la science, p. 136).

[108] On the question whether it is necessary for every one to do "all the preliminary grubbing
for himself," cf. J. M. Robertson, "Buckle and His Critics" (London, 1895, 8vo), p. 299.

[109] Renan, L'Avenir de la science, p. 230.

[110] A university professor is in a very good position for discouraging and encouraging vocations;
but "it is by personal effort that the goal (critical skill) must be attained by the students,
as Waitz well said in an academic oration; the teacher's part in this work is small...." (Revue
Critique, 1874, ii. p. 232).

[111] Quoted by Fr. X. von Wegele, Geschichte der deutschen Historiographie (München, 1885,
8vo), p. 653.

[112] Renan, ibid., p. 125. Compare analogous traits in the interesting intellectual biography
of the Hellenist, palæographer, and bibliographer, Charles Graux, by E. Lavisse (Questions
d'enseignement national, Paris, 1885, 18mo, pp. 265 sqq.).

[115] See H. A. L. Fisher in the Fortnightly Review, Dec. 1894, p. 815.

[116] Most of those who have a vocation for critical scholarship possess both the power of
solving problems and the taste for collecting. It is, however, easy to divide them into two
categories according as they show a marked preference for textual criticism and investigation
of authorship on the one hand, or for the more absorbing and less intellectual labours of collection
on the other. J. Havet, a past-master in the study of erudite problems, always declined to
undertake a general collection of Merovingian royal charters, a work which his admirers expected
from him. In this connection he readily admitted his "want of taste for feats of endurance"
(Bibliothèque de l'École des chartes, 1896, p. 222).

[117] It is common to hear the opposite of this maintained, namely, that the labours of critical
scholarship (external criticism) have this advantage over other labours in the field of history
that they are within the range of average ability, and that the most moderate intellects, after
a suitable preliminary drilling, may be usefully employed in them. It is quite true that men
with no elevation of soul or power of thought can make themselves useful in the field of criticism,
but then they must have special qualities. The mistake is to think that with good will and
a special drilling every one without exception can be fitted for the operations of external
criticism. Among those who are incapable of these operations, as well as among those who are
fitted for them, there are both men of sense and blockheads.

[118] A. Philippi, Einige Bemerkungen über den philologischen Unterricht, Giessen, 1890, 4to.
Cf. Revue Critique, 1892, i. p. 25.

[119] J. von Pflugk-Harttung, Geschichtsbetrachtungen, Gotha, 1890, 8vo.

[120] Ibid., p. 21.

[121] Cf. supra, p. 99.

[122] Renan, L'Avenir de la science, p. xiv.

[123] Revue historique, lxiii. (1897), p. 320.

[124] Renan, ibid., pp. 122, 243. The same thought has been more than once expressed, in different
language, by E. Lavisse, in his addresses to the students of Paris (Questions d'enseignement
national, pp. 14, 86, &c.).

[125] One of us (M. Langlois) proposes to give elsewhere a detailed account of all that has
been done in the last three hundred years, but especially in the nineteenth century, for the
organisation of historical work in the principal countries of the world. Some information has
already been collected on this subject by J. Franklin Jameson, "The Expenditures of Foreign
Governments in behalf of History," in the "Annual Report of the American Historical Association
for 1891," pp. 38-61.

[127] Even the specialists in external criticism themselves, when they do not take the line
of despising all synthesis a priori, are almost as easily dazzled as anybody else by incorrect
syntheses, by a show of "general ideas," or by literary artifices, in spite of their clear-sightedness
where works of critical scholarship are concerned.

[128] The sciences of observation do, however, need a species of criticism. We do not accept
without verification results obtained by anybody, but only results obtained by those who know
how to work. But this criticism is made once for all, and applies to the author, not to his
works; historical criticism, on the contrary, is obliged to deal separately with every part
of a document.

[129] Cf. supra, book ii. chap. i. p. 67.

[130] Cf. supra, p. 122.

[131] Taine appears to have proceeded thus in vol. ii, La Révolution, of his Origines de la
France contemporaine. He had made extracts from unpublished documents and inserted a great
number of them in his work, but it would seem that he did not first methodically analyse them
in order to determine their meaning.

[132] Fustel de Coulanges explains very clearly the danger of this method: "Some students begin
by forming an opinion ... and it is not till afterwards that they begin to read the texts.
They run a great risk of not understanding them at all, or of understanding them wrongly. What
happens is that a kind of tacit contest goes on between the text and the preconceived opinions
of the reader; the mind refuses to grasp what is contrary to its idea, and the issue of the
contest commonly is, not that the mind surrenders to the evidence of the text, but that the
text yields, bends, and accommodates itself to the preconceived opinion.... To bring one's
personal ideas into the study of texts is the subjective method. A man thinks he is contemplating
an object, and it is his own idea that he is contemplating. He thinks he is observing a fact,
and the fact at once assumes the colour, and the significance his mind wishes it to have. He
thinks he is reading a text, and the words of the text take a particular meaning to suit a
ready-made opinion. It is this subjective method which has done most harm to the history of
the Merovingian epoch.... To read the texts was not enough; what was required was to read them
before forming any convictions...." (Monarchie franque, p. 31). For the same reason Fustel
de Coulanges deprecated the reading of one document in the light of another; he protested against
the custom of explaining the Germania of Tacitus by the barbaric laws. In the Revue des questions
historiques, 1897, vol. i, a lesson on method, De l'analyse des textes historiques, is given
apropos of a commentary by M. Monod on Gregory of Tours: "The historian ought to begin his
work with an exact analysis of each document.... The analysis of a text ... consists in determining
the sense of each word and eliciting the true meaning of the writer.... Instead of searching
for the sense of each of the historian's words, and for the thought he has expressed in them,
he [M. Monod] comments on each sentence in the light of what is found in Tacitus or the Salic
law.... We should understand what analysis really is. Many talk about it, few use it.... The
use of analysis is, by an attentive study of every detail, to elicit from a text all that is
in it; not to introduce into the text what is not there."

After reading this excellent advice it will be instructive to read M. Monod's reply (in the
Revue historique); it will be seen that Fustel de Coulanges himself did not always practise
the method he recommended.

[133] Cf. supra, p. 103.

[134] The work of analysis may be entrusted to a second person; this is what happens in the
case of regesta and catalogues of records; if the analysis has been correctly performed by
the compiler of regesta, there is no need to do it over again.

[135] Practical examples of this procedure will be found in Deloche, La Trustis et l'antrustion
royal (Paris, 1873, 8vo), and, above all, in Fustel de Coulanges. See especially the study
of the words marca (Recherches sur quelques problêmes d'histoire, pp. 322-56), mallus (ibid.,
372-402), alleu (L'Alleu et le domaine rural, pp. 149-70), portio (ibid., pp. 239-52).

[136] The theory and an example of this procedure will be found in Fustel de Coulanges, Recherches
sur quelques problêmes d'histoire (pp. 189-289), with reference to the statements of Tacitus
about the Germans. See especially pp. 263-89, the discussion of the celebrated passage on the
German mode of culture.

[137] Fustel de Coulanges formulates it thus: "It is never safe to separate two words from
their context; this is just the way to mistake their meaning" (Monarchie franque, p. 228, note I).

[138] This is how Fustel de Coulanges condemns this practice: "I am not speaking of pretenders
to learning who quote second-hand, and at most take the trouble to verify whether the phrase
they have seen quoted really occurs in the passage indicated. To verify quotations is one thing
and to read texts quite another, and the two often lead to opposite results" (Revue des questions
historiques, 1887, vol. i.). See also (L'Alleu et le domaine rural, pp. 171-98) the lesson
given to M. Glasson on the theory of the community of land: forty-five quotations are studied
in the light of their context, with the object of proving that none of them bears the meaning
M. Glasson attributed to it. We may also compare the reply: Glasson, Les Communaux et le domaine
rural a l'époque franque, Paris, 1890.

[139] All that is original in Fustel de Coulanges rests on his interpretative criticism; he
never did personally any work in external criticism, and his critical examination of authors'
good faith and accuracy was hampered by a respect for the statements of ancient authors which
amounted to credulity.

[140] A parallel difficulty occurs in the interpretation of illustrative monuments; the representations
are not always to be taken literally. In the Behistun monument Darius tramples the vanquished
chiefs under foot: this is a metaphor. Mediæval miniatures show us persons lying in bed with
crowns on their heads: this is to symbolise their royal rank; the painter did not mean that
they wore their crowns to sleep in.

[141] A. Boeckh, in the Encyclopædie und Methodologie der philologischen Wissenschaften, second
edition (1886), has given a theory of hermeneutic to which Bernheim has been content to refer.

[142] The method of extracting information on external facts from a writer's conceptions forms
part of the theory of constructive reasoning. See book iii.

[143] For example, Père de Smedt, Tardif, Droysen, and even Bernheim.

[144] Descartes, who came at a time when history still consisted in the reproduction of pre-existing
narratives, did not see how to apply methodical doubt to the subject; he therefore refused
to allow it a place among the sciences.

[145] Fustel de Coulanges himself did not rise above this kind of timidity. With reference
to a speech attributed to Clovis by Gregory of Tours, he says: "Doubtless we are unable to
affirm that these words were ever pronounced. But, all the same, we ought not to affirm, in
contradiction to Gregory of Tours, that they were not.... The wisest course is to accept Gregory's
text" (Monarchie franque, p. 66). The wisest, or rather the only scientific course, is to admit
that we know nothing about the words of Clovis, for Gregory himself had no knowledge of them.

[146] Quite recently, E. Meyer, one of the most critically expert historians of antiquity,
has in his work, Die Entstehung des Judenthums (Halle, 1896, 8vo), revived this strange juridical
argument in favour of the narrative of Nehemiah. M. Bouché-Leclercq, in a remarkable study
on "The Reign of Seleucus II. (Callinicus) and Historical Criticism" (Revue des Universités
du Midi, April-June 1897), seems, by way of reaction against the hypercriticism of Niebuhr
and Droysen, to incline towards an analogous theory: "Historical criticism, if it is not to
degenerate into agnosticism--which would be suicidal--or into individual caprice, must place
a certain amount of trust in testimony which it cannot verify, as long as it is not flatly
contradicted by other testimony of equal value." M. Bouché-Leclercq is right as against the
historian who, "after having discredited all his witnesses, claims to put himself in their
place, and sees with their eyes something quite different from what they themselves saw." But
when the "testimony" is insufficient to give us the scientific knowledge of a fact, the only
correct attitude is "agnosticism," that is, a confession of ignorance; we have no right to
shirk this confession because chance has permitted the destruction of the documents which might
have contradicted the testimony.

[147] The "Memoirs of Cardinal de Retz" furnish a conclusive instance: the anecdote of the
ghosts met by Retz and Turenne. A. Feillet, who edited Retz in the Collection des Grands Écrivains
de la France, has shown (vol. i. p. 192) that this story, so vividly narrated, is false from
beginning to end.

[148] A good example of the fascination exerted by a circumstantial narrative is the legend
respecting the origin of the League of the three primitive Swiss cantons (Gessler and the Grütli
conspirators), which was fabricated by Tschudi in the sixteenth century, became classical on
the production of Schiller's "William Tell," and has only been extirpated with the greatest
difficulty. (See Rilliet, Origines de la Conféderation suisse, Geneva, 1869, 8vo.)

[149] Striking example of falsehoods due to vanity are to be found in abundance in the Économies
royales of Sully and the Mémoires of Retz.

[150] Fustel de Coulanges himself went to the formulæ of the inscriptions in honour of the
emperors for a proof that the peoples liked the imperial régime. "If we read the inscriptions,
the sentiment which they exhibit is always one of satisfaction and gratitude.... See the collection
of Orelli, the most frequent expressions are...." And the enumeration of the titles of respect
given to the emperors ends with this strange aphorism: "It would show ignorance of human nature
to see nothing but flattery in all this." There is not even flattery here; there is nothing
but formulæ.

[151] Suger, in his life of Louis VI., is a model of this type.

[152] The Chronicon Helveticum of Tschudi is a striking instance.

[153] Aristophanes and Demosthenes are two striking examples of the power great writers have
of paralysing critics and obscuring facts. Not till the close of the nineteenth century has
any one ventured to recognise frankly their lack of good faith.

[154] For example, the account of the election of Otto I. in the Gesta Ottonis of Wittekind.

[155] For example, the statistics on the population, the commerce, and the wealth of European
countries given by the Venetian ambassadors of the sixteenth century, and the descriptions
of the usages of the Germans in the Germania of Tacitus.

[156] It would be interesting to examine how much of Roman or Merovingian history would be
left if we rejected all documents but those which represent direct observation.

[157] It will be seen why we have not separately defined and studied "first-hand documents."
The question has not been raised in the proper manner in historical practice. The distinction
ought to apply to statements, not to documents. It is not the document which comes to us at
first, second, or third hand; it is the statement. What is called a "first-hand document" is
nearly always composed in part of second-hand statements about facts of which the author had
no personal knowledge. The name "second-hand document" is given to those which, like the work
of Livy, contain nothing first-hand; but the distinction is too crude to serve as a guide in
the critical examination of statements.

[158] There is much less modification where the oral tradition assumes a regular or striking
form, as is the case with verses, maxims, proverbs.

[159] Sometimes the form of the phrase tells its own tale, when, in the midst of a detailed
narrative, obviously of legendary origin, we come across a curt, dry entry in annalistic style,
obviously copied from a written document. That is what we find in Livy (see Nitzsch, Die römische
Annalistik, Leipzig, 1873, 8vo), and in Gregory of Tours (see Loebell, Gregor von Tours, Leipzig,
1868, 8vo).

[160] The events which strike the popular imagination and are transmitted by legend are not
generally those which seem to us the most important. The heroes of the chansons de gestes are
hardly known historically. The Breton epic songs relate, not to the great historical events,
as Villemarqué's collection led people to believe, but to obscure local episodes. The same
holds of the Scandinavian sagas; for the most part they relate to quarrels among the villagers
of Iceland or the Orkneys.

[161] The theory of legend is one of the most advanced parts of criticism. Bernheim (in his
Lehrbuch, pp. 380-90) gives a good summary and a bibliography of it.

[162] "History of Greece," vols. i. and ii. Compare Renan, Histoire du peuple d'Israël, vol.
i. (Paris, 1887, 8vo), Introduction.

[163] And yet Niebuhr made use of the Roman legends to construct a theory, which it was afterwards
necessary to demolish, of the struggle between the patricians and the plebeians; and Curtius,
twenty years after Grote, looked for historical facts in the Greek legends.

[164] See supra, pp. 93 sqq.

[165] Cf. supra, p. 166.

[166] It is often said, "The author would not have dared to write this if it had not been true."
This argument does not apply to societies in a low state of civilisation. Louis VIII. dared
to write that John Lackland had been condemned by the verdict of his peers.

[167] See above, p. 153. Similarly, the particular facts which compose the history of forms
(palæography, linguistic science) are directly established by the analysis of the document.

[168] Primitive Greece has been studied in the Homeric poems. Mediæval private life has been
reconstructed principally from the chansons de gestes. (See C. V. Langlois, Les Traditions
sur l'histoire de la société française au moyen âge d'après les sources littéraires, in the
Revue historique, March-April, 1897.)

[169] Most historians refrain from rejecting a legend till its falsity has been proved, and
if by chance no document has been preserved to contradict it, they adopt it provisionally.
This is how the first five centuries of Rome are still dealt with. This method, unfortunately
still too general, helps to prevent history from being established as a science.

[170] For the logical justification of this principle in history see C. Seignobos, Revue Philosophique,
July-August 1887. Complete scientific certitude is only produced by an agreement between observations
made on different methods; it is to be found at the junction of two different paths of research.

[171] This case is studied and a good example given by Bernheim, Lehrbuch, p. 421.

[172] It is hardly necessary to enter a caution against the childish method of counting the
documents on each side of a question and deciding by the majority. The statement of a single
author who was acquainted with a fact is evidently worth more than a hundred statements made
by persons who knew nothing about it. The rule has been formulated long ago: Ne numerentur,
sed ponderentur.

[173] Cf. supra, p. 94.

[174] It is hardly possible to study here the special difficulties which arise in the application
of these principles, as when the author, wishing to conceal his indebtedness, has introduced
deviations in order to put his readers off the scent, or when the author has combined statements
taken from different documents.

[175] Here we merely indicate the principle of the method of confirmation; its applications
would require a very lengthy study.

[176] Père de Smedt has devoted to this question a part of his Principes de la critique histoire
(Paris, 1887, 12mo).

[177] The solution of the question is different in the case of the sciences of direct observation,
especially the biological sciences. Science knows nothing of the possible and the impossible;
it only recognises facts which have been correctly or incorrectly observed: facts which had
been declared impossible, as the existence of aerolites, have been discovered to be genuine.
The very notion of a miracle is metaphysical; it implies a conception of the universe as a
whole which transcends the limits of observation. (See Wallace, "Miracles and Modern Spiritualism.")

[178] See above, p. 194.

[179] In the experimental sciences an hypothesis is a form of question accompanied by a provisional
answer.

[180] Fustel de Coulanges saw the necessity of this. In the preface to his Recherches sur quelques
problêmes d'histoire (Paris, 1885, 8vo) he announces his intention of presenting his researches
"in the form which all my works have, that is, in the form of questions which I ask myself,
and on which I endeavour to throw light."

[181] Fustel de Coulanges himself seems to have been misled by them: "History is a science;
it does not imagine, it only sees" (Monarchie franque, p. 1). "History, like every science,
consists in a process of discerning facts, analysing them, comparing them, and noting their
connections.... The historian ... seeks facts and attains them by the minute observation of
texts, as the chemist finds his in the course of experiments conducted with minute precision"
(Ibid., p. 39).

[182] The subjective character of history has been brought out into strong relief by the philosopher
G. Simmel, Die Probleme der Geschichtsphilosophie (Leipzig, 1892, 8vo).

[183] This has been eloquently put by Carlyle and Michelet. It is also the substance of the
famous expression of Ranke: "I wish to state how that really was" (wie es eigentlich gewesen).

[184] Cf. pp. 219-23.

[185] Curtius in his "History of Greece," Mommsen in his "History of Rome" (before the Empire),
Lamprecht in his "History of Germany."

[186] It will be enough to mention Augustin Thierry, Michelet, and Carlyle.

[187] See P. Guiraud, Fustel de Coulanges (Paris, 1896, 12mo), p. 164, for some very judicious
observations on this subject.

[188] The classification of M. Lacombe (De l'histoire considérée comme science, chap. vi.),
founded on the motives of actions and the wants they are intended to satisfy, is very judicious
from the philosophical point of view, but does not meet the practical needs of historians;
it rests on abstract psychological categories (economic, reproductive, sympathetic, ambitious,
&c.), and ends by classing together very different species of phenomena (military institutions
along with economics).

[189] Ecclesiastical institutions form part of the government; in German manuals of antiquities
they are found among institutions, while religion is classed with the arts.

[190] Modes of transport, which are often put under commerce, form a species of industry.

[191] Property is an institution of mixed character, being at once economic, social, and political.

[192] For the history and biography of this movement see Bernheim, Lehrbuch, pp. 45-55.

[193] It is no longer necessary to demonstrate the nullity of the notion of race. It used to
be applied to vague groups, formed by a nation or a language; for race as understood by historians
(Greek, Roman, Germanic, Celtic, Slavonic races) has nothing but the name in common with race
in the anthropological sense--that is, a group of men possessing the same hereditary characteristics.
It has been reduced to an absurdity by the abuse Taine made of it. A very good criticism of
it will be found in Lacombe (ibid., chap. xviii.), and in Robertson ("The Saxon and the Celt,"
London, 1897, 8vo).

[194] There is no general agreement on the proper place in history of retrograde changes, of
those oscillations which bring things back to the point from which they started.

[195] The theory of chance as affecting history has been expounded in a masterly manner by
M. Cournot, Considérations sur la marche des idées et des événements dans les temps modernes
(Paris, 1872, 2 vols. 8vo).

[196] Lamprecht, in a long article, Was ist Kulturgeschichte, published in the Deutsche Zeitschrift
für Geschichtswissenschaft, New Series, vol. i., 1896, has attempted to base the history of
civilisation on the theory of a collective soul of society producing "social-psychic" phenomena
common to the whole society, and differing from period to period. This is a metaphysical hypothesis.

[197] The expression national history, introduced in the interests of patriotism, denotes the
same thing. The history of the nation means practically the history of the State.

[198] See Cournot, ibid., i. p. iv.

[199] We have already (p. 143) treated of this fault of method.

[200] The discussion of this argument, which was formerly much used in religious history, was
a favourite subject with the earlier writers who treated of methodology, and still occupies
a considerable space in the Principes de la critique historique of Père de Smedt.

[201] This is what Montesquieu attempted in his Esprit des Lois. In a course of lectures at
the Sorbonne, I have endeavoured to give a sketch of such a comprehensive account.--[Ch. S.]

[202] See p. 204.

[203] Michelet has discredited the study of physiological influences by the abuse which he
has made of it in the last part of his "History of France"; it is, however, indispensable for
the understanding of a man's career.

[204] On the subject of statistics, a method which is now perfected, a good summary with a
bibliography will be found in the Handwörterbuch der Staatswissenschaften, Jena, 1890-94, Ia.
8vo. and two good methodical treatises, J. von. Mayr, Theoretische Statistik and Bevölkerungsstatistik,
in the collection of Marquardsen and Seydel, Freiburg, 1895 and 1897, Ia. 8vo.

[205] As is done by Boardeau (l'Histoire et les Historiens, Paris, 1888, 8vo), who proposes
to reduce the whole of history to a series of statistics.

[206] A good example will be found in Lacombe, De l'Histoire Considérée Comme Science, p. 146.

[207] We have thought it useless to discuss here the question whether history ought, in accordance
with the ancient tradition, to fulfil yet another function, whether it ought to pass judgment
on men and events, that is to supplement the description of facts by expressions of approbation
or censure, either from the point of view of a moral ideal, general or particular (the ideal
of a sect, a party, or a nation), or from the practical point of view, by examining, as Polybius
did, whether historical actions were well or ill adapted to their purpose. An addition of this
kind could be made to any descriptive study: the naturalist might express his sympathy with
or his admiration for an animal, he might condemn the ferocity of the tiger, and praise the
devotion of the hen to her chickens. But it is obvious that in history, as in every other subject,
judgments of this kind are foreign to science.

[208] Comparison between two facts of detail belonging to very different aggregates (for example
the comparison of Abd-el-Kader with Jagurtha, of Napoleon with Sforza) is a striking method
of exposition, but not a means of reaching a scientific conclusion.

[209] This system is still followed by several contemporary authors, the Belgian jurist Laurent
in his Études sur l'histoire de l'humanité, the German Rocholl, and even Flint, the English
historian of the philosophy of history.

[210] Thus Taine, in Les origines de la France Contemporaine, explains the origin of the privileges
of the ancien régime by the services formerly rendered by the privileged classes.

[211] A good criticism of the theory of progress will be found in P. Lacombe, De l'histoire
Considérée Comme Science.

[212] See the very clear declarations of one of the principal representatives of linguistic
science in France, V. Henry, Antinomies linguistiques, Paris, 1896, 8vo.

[213] See above, p. 284.

[214] Lamprecht, in the article quoted, p. 247, after having compared the artistic, religious,
and economic evolutions of mediæval Germany, and after having shown that they can all be divided
into periods of the same duration, explains the simultaneous transformations of the different
usages and institutions of a given society by the transformations of the collective "social
soul." This is only another form of the same hypothesis.

[215] The historians of literature, who began by searching for the connection between the arts
and the rest of social life, thus gave the first place to the most difficult question.

[216] For the earlier epochs, consult good histories of Greek, Roman, and mediæval literature
which contain chapters devoted to "historians." For the modern period, consult the Introduction
of M. G. Monod to vol. i. of the Revue historique; the work by F. X. v. Wegde, Geschichte der
deutschen Historiographie (1885), relates only to Germany, and is mediocre. Some "Notes on
History in France in the Nineteenth Century" have been published by C. Jullian as an Introduction
to his Extraits des historiens français du xixe siècle (Paris, 1897, 12mo). The history of
modern historiography has still to be written. See the partial attempt by E. Bernheim, Lehrbuch,
pp. 13 sqq.

[217] It would be interesting to find out what are the earliest printed books furnished with
notes in the modern fashion. Bibliophiles whom we have consulted are unable to say, their attention
never having been drawn to the point.

[218] It is clear that the romantic methods which are used for the purpose of obtaining effects
of local colour and "revising" the past, often puerile in the hands of the ablest writers,
are altogether intolerable when they are employed by any others. See a good example (criticism
of a book of M. Mourin by M. Monod) in the Revue Critique, 1874, ii. pp. 163 sqq.

[219] It is a commonplace, and an error all the same, to maintain the exact opposite of the
above, namely, that the works of critical scholars live, while the works of historians grow
antiquated, so that scholars gain a more solid reputation than historians do: "Père Daniel
is now read no longer, and Père Anselme is always read." But the works of scholars become antiquated
too, and the fact that not all the parts of the work of Père Anselme have yet been superseded
(that is why he is still read), ought not to deceive us: the great majority of the works written
by scholars, like those of researchers in the sciences proper, are provisional and doomed to
oblivion.

[220] "It is in vain that those professionally concerned try to deceive themselves on this
point; not everything in the past is interesting." "Supposing we were to write the Life of
the Duke of Angoulême," says Pécuchet. "But he was an imbecile!" answers Bouvard; "Never mind;
personages of the second order often have an enormous influence, and perhaps he was able to
control the march of events."--G. Flaubert, Bouvard et Pécuchet, p. 157.

[221] As persons of moderate ability have a tendency to prefer insignificant subjects, there
is active competition in the treatment of such subjects. We often have occasion to note the
simultaneous appearance of several monographs on the same subject. It is not rare for the subject
to be altogether devoid of importance.

[222] Interesting subjects for monographs are not always capable of being treated: there are
some which the state of the sources puts out of the question. This is why beginners, even those
who have ability, experience so much embarrassment in choosing subjects for their first monographs,
when they are not aided by good advice or good fortune, and often lose themselves in attempting
the impossible. It would be very severe, and very unjust, to judge any one from the list of
his first monographs.

[223] In practice it is proper to give at the beginning a list of the sources used in the whole
of the monograph (with appropriate bibliographical information as to the printed works, and
in the case of manuscripts, a mention of the nature of the documents and their shelf-marks);
besides, each special statement should be accompanied by its proof: the exact text of the supporting
document should be quoted, if possible, so that the reader may be in a position to verify the
interpretation; otherwise an analysis of it should be given in a note, or, at the least, the
title of the document, with its shelf-mark, or with a precise indication of the place where
it was published. The general rule is to put the reader in a position to know the exact reasons
for which such and such conclusions have been adopted at each stage of the analysis.

Beginners, resembling ancient authors in this respect, naturally do not observe all these rules.
Frequently, instead of quoting the text or the titles of documents, they refer to these by
their shelf-mark, or by the title of the general collection in which they are printed, from
which the reader can learn nothing as to the nature of the text adduced. The following is another
mistake of the crudest kind, and yet of frequent occurrence: Beginners, and persons of little
experience, do not always understand why the custom has been introduced of inserting footnotes;
at the bottom of the pages of the books they have they see a fringe of notes; they think themselves
bound to fringe their own books in the same way, but their notes are adventitious and purely
ornamental; they do not serve either to exhibit the proof or to enable the reader to verify
the statements. All these methods are inadmissible, and should be vigorously denounced.

