BLACKWOOD'S

EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

No. CCCXLIX. NOVEMBER, 1844. VOL. LVI.

CONTENTS

THE O'CONNELL CASE,                                          539

MY COLLEGE FRIENDS. NO. 1. JOHN BROWN,                       569

THE TOMBLESS MAN. BY DELTA,                                  583

FRENCH SOCIALISTS,                                           588

MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN.

No. CCCXLIX NOVEMBER, 1844. VOL. LVI.

THE O'CONNELL CASE--WAS THE JUDGMENT RIGHTLY REVERSED?

The astounding issue of the Irish State trials will constitute a conspicuous and mortifying
event in the history of the times. A gigantic conspiracy for the dismemberment of the empire
was boldly encountered at its highest point of development by the energy of the common law
of the land, as administered in the ordinary courts of justice. That law, itself certainly
intricate and involved, had to deal with facts of almost unprecedented complication and difficulty;
but after a long and desperate struggle, the law triumphed over every obstacle that could be
opposed to it by tortuous and pertinacious ingenuity: the case was correctly charged before
the jury; most clearly established in evidence, so as to satisfy not them only, but all mankind;
the jury returned a just verdict of guilty against all the parties charged--the court passed
judgment in conformity with that verdict, awarding to the offenders a serious but temperate
measure of punishment--imprisonment, fine, and security for good behaviour. The sentence was
instantly carried into effect--

    "And Justice said--I'm satisfied."

But, behold! a last desperate throw of the dice from the prison-house--a speculative and desponding
appeal to the proverbial uncertainty of the law; and, to the unspeakable amazement and disgust
of the country, an alleged technical slip in the conduct of the proceedings, not touching or
even approaching, the established MERITS of the case either in fact or law, has been held,
by the highest tribunal in the land, sufficient to nullify the whole which had been done, and
to restore to liberty the dangerous delinquents, reveling in misrepresentation and falsehood
concerning the grounds of their escape on punishment--in their delirium of delight and triumph,
even threatening an IMPEACHMENT against the officers of the crown, against even the judges
of the land, for the part they have borne in these reversed proceedings!

Making all due allowance for these extravagant fooleries, it is obvious that the event which
has given rise to them is one calculated to excite profound concern, and very great curiosity.
The most sober and thoughtful observers are conscious of feeling lively indignation at the
spectacle of justice defeated by a technical objection; and public attention has been attracted
to certain topics of the very highest importance and delicacy, arising out of this grievous
miscarriage. They are all involved in the discussion of the question placed at the head of
this article; and to that discussion we propose to address ourselves in spirit of calmness,
freedom, and candour. We have paid close attention to this remarkable and harassing case from
first to last, and had sufficient opportunities of acquainting ourselves with its exact legal
position. We deem it of great importance to enable our readers, whether lay or professional,
to form, with moderate attention, a sound judgment for themselves upon questions which may
possibly become the subject of early parliamentary discussion--Whether the recent decision
of the House of Lords, a very bold one unquestionably, was nevertheless a correct one, and
consequently entitling the tribunal by whom it was pronounced, to the continued respect and
confidence of the country? This is, in truth, a grave question, of universal concern, of permanent
interest, and requiring a fearless, an honest, and a careful examination.

The reversal of the judgment against Mr O'Connell and his companions, was received throughout
the kingdom with perfect amazement. No one was prepared for it. Up to the very last moment,
even till Lord Denman had in his judgment decisively indicated the conclusion at which he had
arrived on the main point in the case, we have the best reason for believing that there was
not a single person in the House of Lords--with the possible exception of Lords Denman, Cottenham,
and Campbell--who expected a reversal of the judgment. So much has the public press been taken
by surprise, that, with the exception of a fierce controversy between the Standard, and Morning
Herald, and the Morning Chronicle, which was conducted with great acuteness and learning, we
are not aware of any explanation since offered by the leading organs of public opinion--the
TIMES has preserved a total silence--as to the legal sufficiency or insufficiency of the grounds
on which this memorable judgment of reversal proceeded. We shall endeavour to do so; for while
it is on this side of the Channel perfectly notorious that the traversers have been proved
guilty of the enormous misdemeanours with which they were charged--guilty in law and guilty
in fact--on the other side of the Channel we find, since commencing this article, that the
chief delinquent, Daniel O'Connell, has the amazing audacity, repeatedly and deliberately,
to declare in public that he has been "ACQUITTED ON THE MERITS!" Without pausing to find words
which would fitly characterize such conduct, we shall content ourselves with the following
judicial declaration made by Lord Brougham in giving judgment in the House of Lords, a declaration
heard and necessarily acquiesced in by every member of the court:--

"The whole of the learned judges with one voice declare, that on the merits, at any rate, they
have no doubt at all--that on the great merits and substance of the case they are unanimously
agreed. That a great offence has been committed, and an offence known to and recognisable by
the law; that a grave offence and crime has been perpetrated, and an offence and crime punishable
by the admitted and undoubted law of the land, none of the learned judges do deny; that counts
in the indictment to bring the offenders, the criminals, to punishment, are to be found, against
which no possible exception, technical or substantial, can be urged, all are agreed; that these
counts, if they stood alone, would be amply sufficient to support the sentence of the court
below, and that that sentence in one which the law warrants, justifies, nay, I will even say
commands, they all admit. On these, the great features, the leading points, the substance,
the very essence of the case, all the learned judges without exception, entertain and express
one clear, unanimous, and unhesitating opinion." And yet all the proceedings have been annulled,
and the perpetrators of these great crimes and offences let loose again upon society! How comes
this to pass? is asked with astonishment wherever it is heard of, both in this country--and abroad.

The enquiry we propose is due with reference to the conduct and reputation of three great judicial
classes--the judges of the Irish Queen's Bench: the judges of England: and the judges of the
court of appeal in the House of Lords. Familiar as the public has been for the last twelve
months with the Irish State Trials, the proceedings have been reported at such great length--in
such different forms, and various stages--that it is probable that very few except professional
readers have at this moment a distinct idea of the real nature of the case, as from time to
time developed before the various tribunals through whose ordeal it has passed. We shall endeavour
now to extricate the legal merits of the case from the meshes of complicated technicalities
in which they have hitherto been involved, and give an even elementary exposition of such portions
of the proceedings as must be distinctly understood, before attempting to form a sound opinion
upon the validity or invalidity of the grounds upon which alone the judgment has been reversed.

The traversers were charged with having committed the offence of CONSPIRACY; which, by the
universally admitted common law of the land for considerably upwards of five hundred years,
exists "where two, or more than two, agree to do an illegal act--that is, to effect something
in itself unlawful, or to effect by unlawful means something which in itself may be indifferent,
or even lawful."[1] Such an offence constitutes a misdemeanour; and for that misdemeanour,
and that misdemeanour alone, the traversers were indicted. The government might, as we explained
in a former Number,[2] have proceeded by an ex-officio information at the suit of the crown,
filed by the Attorney-General; but in this instance, waiving all the privileges appertaining
to the kingly office, they appeared before the constituted tribunal of the law as the redressers
of the public wrongs, invested however with no powers or authority beyond the simple rights
enjoyed by the meanest of its subjects--and preferred an indictment: which is "a written accusation
of one or more persons, of a crime or misdemeanour, preferred to and presented on oath by a
grand jury."[3] Now, in framing an indictment, the following are the principles to be kept
in view. They were laid down with beautiful precision and terseness by Lord Chief-Justice De
Grey, in the case of Rex. v. Horne--2 Cowper's Rep. 682.

"The charge must contain such a description of the crime, that the defendant may know what
crime it is which he is called upon to answer; that the jury may appear to be warranted in
their conclusion of 'guilty,' or 'not guilty,' upon the premises delivered to them; and that
the court may see such a definite crime, that they may apply the punishment which the law prescribes."

There may be, and almost always are, several, sometimes many, counts in a single indictment;
and it is of peculiar importance in the present case, to note the reason why several counts
are inserted, when the indictment contains a charge of only one actual offence. First, when
there is any doubt as to which is the proper mode, in point of law, of describing the offence;
secondly, lest, although the offence be legally described on the face of the indictment, it
should be one which the evidence would not meet or support. The sole object is, in short, to
avoid the risk of a frequent and final failure of justice on either of the above two grounds.
Technically speaking, each of these counts is regarded (though all of them really are only
varied descriptions of one and the same offence) as containing the charge of a distinct offence.[4]
For precisely the same reason, several counts were, till recently, allowed in CIVIL proceedings,
although there was only one cause of action; but this license got to be so much abused, (occasioning
expensive prolixity,) that only one count is now permitted for one cause of action--a great
discretion being allowed to judge, however, by statute, of altering the count at the trial,
so as to meet the evidence then adduced. A similar alteration could not be allowed in criminal
cases, lest the grand jury should have found a bill for one offence, and the defendant be put
upon his trial for another. There appear, however, insuperable objections to restricting one
offence to a single count, in respect of the other object, on peril of the perpetual defeat
of justice. The risk is sufficiently serious in civil cases, where the proceedings are drawn
so long beforehand, and with such ample time for consideration as to the proper mode of stating
the case, so as to be sufficient in point of law. But criminal proceedings cannot possibly
be drawn with this deliberate preparation and accurate examination into the real facts of the
case beforehand; and if the only count allowed--excessively difficult as it continually is
to secure perfect accuracy--should prove defective in point of law, the prisoner, though guilty,
must either escape scot-free, or become the subject of reiterated and abortive prosecution--a
gross scandal to the administration of justice, and grave injury to the interests of society.
If these observations be read with attention, and borne in mind, they will afford great assistance
in forming a clear and correct judgment on this remarkably interesting, and, as regards the
future administration of justice, vitally important case. There is yet one other remark necessary
to be made, and to be borne in mind by the lay reader. Adverting to the definition already
given of a "conspiracy"--that its essence is the MERE AGREEMENT to do an illegal act--it will
be plain, that where such an agreement has once been shown to have been entered into, it is
totally immaterial whether the illegal act, or the illegal acts, have been actually done or
not in pursuance of the conspiracy. Where these illegal acts, however, have been done, and
can be clearly proved, it is usual--but not necessary--to set them out in the indictment for
a conspiracy. This is called setting out the overt acts, (and was done in the present instance,)
not as any part of the conspiracy, but only as statements of the evidence by which the charge
was to be supported--for the laudable purpose of giving the parties notice of the particular
facts from which the crown intended to deduce the existence of the alleged conspiracy. They
consisted, almost unavoidably, of a prodigious number of writings, speeches, and publications;
and these it was which earned for the indictment the title of "the Monster Indictment." It
occupies fifty-three pages of the closely printed folio appendix to the case on the part of
the crown--each page containing on an average seventy-three lines, each line eighteen words;
which would extend to nine hundred and fifty-three common law folios, each containing seventy-two
words! The indictment itself, however, independently of its ponderous appendages, was of very
moderate length. It contained eleven counts--and charged A CONSPIRACY of a five-fold nature--i.
e. to do five different acts; and the scheme of these counts was this:--the first contained
all the five branches of the conspiracy--and the subsequent counts took that first count to
pieces; that is to say, contained the whole or separate portions of it, with such modifications
as might appear likely to obviate doubts as to their legal sufficiency, or meet possible or
probable variations in the expected evidence. The following will be found a correct abstract
of this important document.

The indictment, as already stated, contained eleven counts, in each of which it was charged
that the defendants, Daniel O'Connell, John O'Connell, Thomas Steele, Thomas Matthew Kay, Charles
Gavan Duffy, John Gray, and Richard Barrett, the Rev. Peter James Tyrrell, and the Rev. Thomas
Tierney, unlawfully, maliciously, and seditiously did COMBINE, CONSPIRE, CONFEDERATE, and AGREE
with each other, and with divers other persons unknown, for the purposes in those counts respectively
stated.

The FIRST count charged the conspiracy as a conspiracy to do five different acts, (that is to say,)

"First. To raise and create discontent and disaffection amongst her Majesty's subjects, and
to excite such subjects to hatred and contempt of the government and constitution of the realm
as by law established, and to unlawful and seditious opposition to the said government and
constitution.

"Second. To stir up jealousies, hatred, and ill-will between different classes of her Majesty's
subjects, and especially to promote amongst her Majesty's subjects in Ireland, feelings of
ill-will and hostility towards and against her Majesty's subjects in the other parts of the
United Kingdom, especially in that part of the United Kingdom called England.

"Third. To excite discontent and disaffection amongst divers of her Majesty's subjects serving
in her Majesty's army.

"Fourth. To cause and procure, and aid and assist in causing and procuring, divers subjects
of her Majesty unlawfully, maliciously, and seditiously to meet and assemble together in large
numbers, at various times and at different places within Ireland, for the unlawful and seditious
purpose of obtaining, by means of the intimidation to be thereby caused, and by means of the
exhibition and demonstration of great physical force at such assemblies and meetings, changes
and alterations in the government, laws, and constitution of the realm by law established.

"Fifth. To bring into hatred and disrepute the courts of law established in Ireland for the
administration of justice, and to diminish the confidence of her Majesty's subjects in Ireland
in the administration of the law therein, with the intent to induce her Majesty's subjects
to withdraw the adjudication of their differences with, and claims upon, each other, from the
cognisance of the said courts by law established, and to submit the same to the judgment and
determination of other tribunals to be constituted and contrived for that purpose."

[This count sets out as overt acts of the above design, numerous meetings, speeches, and publications.]

The SECOND count was the same as the first, omitting the overt acts.

The THIRD count was the same as the second, only omitting from the fourth charge the words
"unlawfully, maliciously, and seditiously."

The FOURTH count was the same as the third, omitting the charge as to the army.

The FIFTH count contained the first and second charges set forth in the first count, omitting
the overt acts.

The SIXTH count contained the fourth charge set forth in the first count, omitting the words
"unlawfully, maliciously, and seditiously," and the overt acts.

The SEVENTH count was the same as the sixth, adding the words "and especially, by the means
aforesaid, to bring about and accomplish a dissolution of the legislative union now subsisting
between Great Britain and Ireland."

The EIGHTH count contained the fifth charge set forth in the first count, omitting the overt acts.

The NINTH count contained the fifth charge set forth in the first count, omitting the intent
therein charged, and the overt acts, but adding the following charge--"And to assume and usurp
the prerogatives of the crown in the establishment of courts for the administration of law."

The TENTH count was the same as the eighth, omitting the intent stated in the fifth charge
in the first count.

The ELEVENTH count charged the conspiracy to be, "to cause and procure large numbers of persons
to meet and assemble together in divers places, and at divers times, within Ireland, and by
means of unlawful, seditious, and inflammatory speeches and addresses, to be made and delivered
at the said several places, on the said several times, respectively, and also by means of the
publishing, and causing and procuring to be published, to and amongst the subjects of her said
majesty, divers unlawful, malicious, and seditious writings and compositions, to intimidate
the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and the Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland, and thereby to effect and bring about changes and alterations in
the laws and constitution of this realm, as now by law established."

