    "In concluding, I cannot help remarking that this circuit of the wind
    from SW. by W. to NW. or N., from our insular position, imparts to our
    climate its fickleness and inconstancy. How often will our brightest
    sky become suffused by the blackest vapours on the slightest breach of
    SW. wind, and the clouds will then disappear as speedily as they
    formed, when the NW. upper current forces their stratum of moist air to
    rise and mingle with the dryer current above. I do not know who first
    noticed and recorded this change of the wind from SW. to NW., but the
    regularity of the phenomenon must teach us that the law which it obeys
    is part of a grand system, and invites us to trace its action. I do not
    think it will be out of place to point out the fact that the great
    English poet seems to have been quite familiar with this feature of our
    weather, not only in its most striking manifestations in the autumn and
    winter months, to which he especially refers, but even in its more
    pleasant aspects of summer. Shakspeare likens the wind in this shifting
    to an individual who pays his addresses in succession to two fair
    ones--first he wooes the North, but in courting that frigid beauty a
    difference takes place, whereupon he turns his back upon her and courts
    the fair South. The beautiful lines which the poet,
    in his prodigality, put into the mouth of one of his gay frolicsome
    characters, the meaning of them he no doubt thought might have been
    understood by every one; but his commentators do not seem to have done
    so. In some editions turning his side has been put for face, which
    is feeble and unmeaning. And I do not think the recent emendation by
    Mr. Collier on the text is any improvement, where tide is substituted
    for face, which impairs both the beauty and harmony of the metaphor."

ANON.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Word for "the Old Corrector."--Allow me, as an avowed enemy to "the Old Corrector's" novelties,
render "the Great Unknown" one act of justice. I am convinced there are but two practically
possible hypotheses, on which to account for the MS. emendations: either the emendations were
for the most part made from some authoritative document, or they are parts of a modern fabrication.
No third supposition can be reasonably maintained. MR. KNIGHT'S view, for example, gives no
account of the immense number of coincidences with the conjectural emendations of the commentators.
Whichever of the two hypotheses be the true one, I need hardly say that MR. COLLIER'S name
is a sufficient guarantee for all honorable dealing, so far as he is connected with the MS.
corrections.

Permit me farther to do an act of justice to MR. COLLIER himself. In my note on a passage in
The Tempest, I stated that Mr. Collier had overlooked a parallel passage in Richard II. It
was I who had overlooked MR. COLLIER'S supplemental note. However, I must add, that how MR.
COLLIER could persuade himself to print heat for "cheek," in his "monovolume edition," after
he had seen the passage in Richard II., is utterly beyond my power of comprehension.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Injustice, its Origin.--In looking through a file of papers a few days since, I met with the
following as being the origin of this term, and would ask if it is correct?

    "When Nushervan the Just was out on a hunting excursion, his
    companions, on his becoming fatigued, recommended him to rest, while
    they should prepare him some food. There being no salt, a slave was
    dispatched to the nearest village to bring some. But as he was going,
    Nushervan said, 'Pay for the salt you take, in order that it may not
    become a custom to rob, and the village ruined.' They said, 'What harm
    will this little quantity do?' He replied, The origin of injustice in
    the world was at first small, but every one that came added to it,
    until it reached its present magnitude.'"

W. W.

Malta.

Two Brothers of the same Christian Name.--An instance of this occurs in the family of Croft
of Croft Castle. William Croft, Esq., of Croft Castle, had issue Sir Richard Croft, Knight,
his son and heir, the celebrated soldier in the wars of the Roses, and Richard Croft, Esq.,
second son, "who, by the description of Richard Croft the Younger, received a grant of lands"
in 1461. (Retrospective Review, 2nd Series, vol. i. p. 472.)

TEWARS.

Female Parish Clerk.--In the parish register of Totteridge appears the following:

    "1802, March 2. Buried, Elizabeth King, widow, for forty-six years
    clerk of this parish, in the ninety-first year of her age."--Burn on
    Parish Registers, 110.

Is there any similar instance on record of a woman being a parish clerk?

Y. S. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

{339}

Queries.

DESCENDANTS OF MILTON.

It is well known that the issue of the poet became extinct in 1754, unless they survived in
the descendants of Caleb Clarke, the only son of Milton's third daughter, Deborah. Caleb Clarke
went out to Madras, and was parish clerk at Fort St. George from 1717 to 1719. In addition
to a daughter, who died in infancy, he had two sons, Abraham and Isaac; of neither of whom
is anything known, except that the former married a person of the same surname as himself;
and had a daughter Mary, baptised in 1727. Sir James Mackintosh made some ineffectual attempts
to trace them, and came to the conclusion that they had migrated to some other part of India.

I am perhaps catching at a straw: but it is possible there may be something more than a coincidence
in the name of Milton Clark, who is spoken of in the fourth chapter of the Key to Uncle Tom's
Cabin as brother to Lewis Clark, the original of the character of George Harris. Perhaps some
of your transatlantic friends can inform us:

1st. Whether there is, or has been, in use any system of assigning names to slaves, which would
account for their bearing the Christian and surname of their owners or other free men, and
thus lead to the inference that there has been some free man of the name of Milton Clark.

2nd. Whether there is any family in America of the name of Clark, in which Milton, or even
Abraham or Isaac, is known to have been adopted as a Christian name; and, if so, whether there
is any tradition in the family of migration from India.

J. F. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ANXIOUS QUERY FROM THE HYMMALAYAS.

I was honoured, a few days ago, with a communication from India, which contains a Query that
is out of my power to answer. But being very solicitous to do my best towards affording the
desired information, I bethought myself of sending the letter, in extenso, for insertion in
your very valuable and exceedingly useful miscellany. I venture to think that you will agree
with me, that the interesting nature of the communication entitles it to a place in "N. & Q."
As the letter speaks for itself, I shall say no more about it, but proceed to transcribe the
greatest part of it at once.

    "Landour Academy, May 26th, 1853.

    "Rev. M. Margoliouth,

    "Sir,--I do not know in what terms to apologise to you for this
    communication, especially as it may entail trouble on you, which can
    result in my advantage alone.

    "I am a Jew, believing that Jesus is the Messiah; and I trust this will
    induce you to assist me in my search after some of my relations whom I
    believe to be in England.

    "I wrote to Dr. Adler, Chief Rabbi of the Jews in England, some years
    ago, but his information was limited to some distant connexions, the
    Davises, Isaacs, and Lewises, who still professed Judaism. Subsequent
    inquiries discovered two uncles of mine, Charles Lewes and Mordan
    Lewes, in London, who informed me that my grandfather, Isaac Levi, was
    for ten years a clergyman of the Church of England, and had
    congregation at Lynn, in Norfolk, and that he had published a tract
    against Judaism. Beyond this I can get no farther information: my
    uncles are either too poor or unwilling to prosecute their inquiries
    any farther. Could you ascertain for me whether my grandfather left any
    family, and if any member is still alive? My object is to discover
    their existence, and to renew a correspondence which has been
    interrupted for more than forty years.

    "I am the grandson of Isaac Levi, for many years dead, reader of a
    congregation of Jews in London; my father, Benjamin Levi, is still
    alive, and is with me. I keep a school at Landour, in the Hymmalayas,
    in the north-western provinces of India. I have been led to write to
    you after reading your Pilgrimage to the Land of My Fathers, and
    seeing in it that you are the author of a work entitled The Jews in
    Great Britain, which I have not seen, and concluding from this that if
    any one can obtain information you can.

    "I send this letter to Messrs. Smith and Elder, booksellers, of
    Cornhill, London, with a request to send it to you through your
    publisher, Mr. R. Bentley," &c. &c.

I do not feel justified in publishing the last two paragraphs in my correspondent's letter,
and have therefore omitted them. I shall feel extremely obliged to any of the readers of "N.
& Q." who could and would help me to answer the anxious Query from the Hymmalayas.

M. M.

Wybunbury, Nantwich.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

"De la Schola de Sclavoni."--On a large marble slab at North Stoneham, near Southampton, is
the following, inscription:

    Año Dni MCCCCLXXXI Sepvltvra de la Schola de Sclavoni."

Is this the burial-place of the family of one of the foreign merchants settled in this country,
and can any of the correspondents of "N. & Q." give any information about it?

JOHN S. BURN.

Mineral Acids.--As it is generally supposed that these powerful solvents were not known anterior
to circiter A.D. 1100, I should be glad to learn what opinion is entertained by the learned
concerning {340} the death of the prophet Haken al Mokannah. This person is said to have disappeared
in 785, or 163 of the Hejrah, by casting himself into a barrel of corrosive fluids, which dissolved
his body. Is it not the best supposition, that this story was supposed by Khondemir and others,
in more advanced ages of science, to account for the fact of his having disappeared, and of
his real fate having never been ascertained? I have never seen this apparent anticipation of
chemical discoveries animadverted on.

A. N.

Richard Geering.--Wanted, arms, pedigree, and particulars of the family of Richard Geering,
one of the six clerks in Chancery in Ireland from March 1700 to April 1735. One of his daughters,
Prudence, married, in 1722, Charles Coote, Esq., M.P., and by him was mother of the last Earl
of Bellamont. Another daughter, Susannah, was wife of Mr. Charles Wilson; who was, it is believed,
a connexion of the family of Ward of Newport, in Shropshire. Any information about Mr. Wilson's
ancestry would be very acceptable.

Y. S. M.

Stipendiary Curates.--What is the earliest mention of stipendiary curates in our ecclesiastical
establishment? And what other national churches have priests placed in a corresponding position?

BEROSUS.

Our Lady of Rounceval.--Can you or any of your correspondents furnish me with particulars of
our Lady of Rounceval?

A. J. DUNKIN.

Roden's Colt.--A lady of a certain age is said in common parlance to be "Forty, save one, the
age of Roden's colt." What can Nimrod tell us touching this proverbialised animal?

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

Sir Christopher Wren and the Young Carver.--A reader has a floating notion in his head of having
once read in the Literary Gazette a strange story of a country boy going to town to seek employment
as a carver or sculptor; of his being accosted by Sir Christopher Wren, and offering to carve
for him a sow and pigs, &c. Can any correspondent have pity on him, and tell him where to find
the tale?

A. H.

Vellum Cleaning.--Are there not preparations in use for cleaning the backs of old vellum-bound
books without destroying the polish? How made, or where procurable?

J. F. M.

Dionysia in Boeotia.--Can any of your readers refer me to a passage in any ancient author in
which this supposed town is mentioned?

Dumersan refers to Diodorus Siculus as his authority for its existence, but my search in that
author has been vain, and I am not alone in that respect.

AUGUSTUS LANGDON.

Bloomsbury.

Poll Tax in 1641.--I find in Somers' Tracts, 2nd ed. vol. iv. p. 298.:

    "The copy of an order agreed upon in the House of Commons upon Friday,
    18th June, wherein every man is rated according to his estate, for the
    king's use."

Is there on record the return made to this order; and where may it be consulted?

TEWARS.

Thomas Chester, Bishop of Elphin, 1580.--This prelate, who was the second son of Sir William
Chester, Kt., Lord Mayor of London in 1560, by his first wife Elizabeth, daughter of Thomas
Lovett, Esq., of Astwell in Northamptonshire, is said by Anthony à Wood (Athenaæ Oxon., ed.
Bliss, vol. ii. p. 826.) to have "given way to fate at Killiathar in that city, in the month
of June in 1584." The calendars of the Will Office of the Prerogative Court of Canterbury do
not contain his name; can any of your Irish contributors inform me whether his will was proved
in Ireland? I should be glad to know, too, what will offices exist in Ireland, and from what
period they date their commencement. He is said to have married ----, daughter of Sir James
Clavering, Kt., of Axwell Park in Northumberland: does any pedigree of the Claverings supply
this lady's Christian name? His eldest brother, William Chester, Esq., married his cousin-german
Judith, daughter and co-heiress of Anthony Cave, Esq., of Chichley Hall, Bucks, and was ancestor
to the extinct family of the baronets of that name and place. Bishop Chester died s. p.

TEWARS.

Rev. Urban Vigors.--Amongst the chaplains of King Charles I., was there one of the name of
Vigors, the Rev. Urban Vigors of Taunton? Any particulars of him will be acceptable.

Y. S. M.

Early English MSS.--What is the earliest document, of any historical import to this country,
now existing in MS.?

T. HUGHES.

Curing of Henry IV.--The best account of the curing of Hen. IV. from the leprosy: vide Lambard's
Dictionary, p. 306.

A. J. DUNKIN.

Standard of Weights and Measures.--I would gladly learn something of the system of weights
and measures in other countries, and particularly whether in England and America there exists
for this object any government inspection; and if so, how this is executed? A list of works
on this subject would be most welcome. I am acquainted only with the works of Ravon, Fabrication
des Poids et Mesures, Paris, 1843, and of Tarbé, Poids, Mesures et Vérification, both found
in the Encyclopédie Roret; and the Vollständige Darstellung {341} des Masz- and Gewicht-Systems
in Grossherzogthum Hessen, by F. W. Grimm, Darmstadt, 1840.--From the Navorscher.

[Phi]. [Phi].

Parish Clerks' Company.--

    "In making searches in registers of parishes within the bills of
    mortality, a facility is afforded by the company of parish clerks; by
    paying a fee of about two guineas, a circular is sent to all the parish
    clerks, with the particulars of information required: the registers are
    accordingly searched, and the result communicated to the clerk of the
    company."

The above I give from Burn's History of Parish Registers, p. 217. note, published in 1829.
Is this the case at present and if so, what is the direction of the clerk of the Company? I
wish this system existed in Oxford.

Y. S. M.

Orange Blossom.--Can any reader of "N. & Q." inform me why the flowers of the orange blossom
are so universally used in the dress of a bride? and from what date they have been so used?

AUGUSTA.

Mr. Pepys his Queries.--I cannot say that I met with Pepys as Fielding did Shakspeare, in a
Journey from this World to the next; but I met with seven of his Queries among the Rawlinson
MSS. in the Bodleian, addressed to Sir William Dugdale, a name dear to all orthodox antiquaries.
It would appear the Secretary to the Admiralty felt the want of a "medium of inter-communication"
in his day. Here are his Queries:

1. Whether any foreigners are to be found in our list of English admirals?

2. The reason or account to be given of the place assigned to our admirals in the Act of Precedence?

3. Whether any of the considerable families of our nobility or gentry have been raised by the sea?

4. Some instances of the greatest ransoms heretofore set upon prisoners of greatest quality.

5. The descent and posterity of Sir Francis Drake; and what estate is now in the possession
of any of his family derived from him.

6. Who Sir Anthony Ashby was?

7. What are and have been generally the professions, trades, or qualifications, civil or military,
that have and do generally raise families in England to wealth and honour in Church and State?

J. YEOWELL.

50. Burton Street.

Foreign Medical Education.--Can any contributor direct me to any sources of information on
the regulations concerning medical instruction and medical degrees in the principal universities
on the Continent?

MEDICUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Can any of your readers inform me where I can obtain evidence of the symoniacal means by which
it is said this bishop obtained the bishopric of Durham? One would scarcely think so cautious
a man as Lord Dover would refer to the imputation, without some evidence on which his lordship
could rely.

Mr. Surtees, in his History of the Bishops of Durham, makes no allusion to the symoniacal means
by which Chandler obtained his promotion to the see of Durham. He gives a list of the bishop's
printed works, amongst which is a "charge to the grand jury of Durham concerning engrossing
of corn, &c., 1740." Can you, or any of your readers, inform me where this pamphlet is to be
met with? For I am curious to know how a bishop could make a charge to a grand jury. There
must surely be some mistake in the title of the pamphlet.

FRA. MEWBURN.

Darlington.

    [The charge of simony is loosely noticed by Shaw in his History of
    Staffordshire, vol. i. p. 278. He says, "Edward Chandler was
    translated from Lichfield and Coventry to Durham in 1730; and it was
    then publicly said that he gave 9000l. for that opulent see." To this
    Chalmers, in his Biog. Dict., adds, "which is scarcely credible." The
    Charge by the bishop is in the British Museum: it is entitled, "A
    Charge delivered to the Grand Jury at the Quarter-Sessions held at
    Durham, July 16, 1740, concerning engrossing of corn and grain, and the
    riots that have been occasioned thereby." 4to., Durham.]

Huggins and Muggins.--Can any of your readers assign the origin of this jocular appellation?
I would hazard the conjecture, that it may be corruption of Hogen Mogen, High Mightinesses,
the style, I believe, of the States-General of Holland; and that it probably became an expression
of contempt in the mouths of the Jacobites for the followers of William III., from whence it
has passed to a more general application.

F. K.