Los Angeles-      Southern San Bernardino    San Andreas    8.3             2-5           High

San Francisco     Northern Bay Area          San Andreas    8.3             1             Moderate

San Francisco Bay Area          Hayward        7.4             1             Moderate

Los Angeles       Newport-                                     Moderate
                  Inglewood      7.5             0.1           -Low

San Diego         Rose Canyon    7.0             0.01          Low

Riverside                                                      Moderate- San Bernardino   
Cucamonga      6.8             0.1           Low

Los Angeles       Santa Monica   6.7             0.01          Low
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
   [1] This is the estimated largest magnitude earthquake expected
   at a reasonable level of probability. The main shock can be
   expected to be followed by large aftershocks over a period of
   weeks or longer. Each large aftershock would be capable of
   producing additional significant damage and hampering disaster
   assistance operations.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

These earthquake scenarios represent the largest magnitude events estimated on the basis of
a variety of geologic assumptions. The appropriateness of these assumptions depends on the
intent of the analysis and the state of geologic knowledge. Therefore, the resulting estimates
may not be appropriate for other purposes, such as the development of seismic design criteria
for a specific site. The development of such criteria commonly requires detailed analyses of
the site and its immediate geologic environment beyond the scope of this report. Consequently,
detailed site analyses may require modification of the conclusions reached in this report,
particularly fault systems other than the San Andreas and Hayward faults.

B. GEOLOGIC EVIDENCE

Some of the possible earthquakes listed are repeat occurrences of historical events, others
are not, but geologic evidence indicates that earthquakes occurred on these faults before settlement
of the region. Based on available data, the postulated earthquake magnitudes would be the largest
events that could be expected at a reasonable level of probability. They represent a selection
of events useful for planning purposes, but are by no means the only such events likely to
occur either on these or other fault systems.

The historic record of seismicity in California is too short to determine confidently how often
large earthquakes reoccur. Information on past earthquakes must be gleaned from the geologic
record and therefore, presents a picture of past seismicity that is incomplete and not yet
fully deciphered. Current knowledge about the recurrence of large earthquakes on specific faults
is rudimentary. The probabilities of occurrence shown above are order-of-magnitude estimates
and subject to considerable uncertainty, especially for the less probable events.

C. DESCRIPTION OF EVENTS

Following are brief descriptions of postulated events. Figure 1 gives their geographic location.

   1. Los Angeles-San Bernardino/Southern San Andreas Fault
      (Magnitude 8.3)

      For the past several thousand years, great earthquakes have been
occurring over a 300 km length of the San Andreas fault approximately
every 100 to 200 years, 140 years on the average. The last such event
took place in 1857. The fault skirts the
edge of the Los Angeles-San Bernardino metropolitan region, thus most
of the urbanized area lies further than 20 miles from the source of
strong shaking. Because of the distance, shaking would be more
hazardous for large structures than for one- to two-story houses. The
long duration of shaking could trigger numerous slides on steep
slopes and cause liquefaction in isolated areas.

   2. San Francisco Bay Area/Northern San Andreas Fault
      (Magnitude 8.3)

      A repeat occurrence of the 1906 earthquake, in which the San
Andreas fault broke over 400 km of its length, would cause severe
damage to structures throughout the Bay Area and adjacent regions. The
extensive urban development on lowlands and landfill around San
Francisco Bay would be especially hard hit and liquefaction in many of
these areas would intensify the damage to structures erected on them.

   3. San Francisco Bay Area/Hayward Fault (Magnitude 7.4)

      The last large events to occur on this fault were in 1836 and
1868. Should a major earthquake occur, severe ground shaking and
liquefaction is expected to cause damage throughout the entire
circum-bay area nearly as severe as that resulting from a 1906-type
earthquake on the San Andreas fault. This earthquake would be of
particular concern because of the many dams located along or near the
fault.

   4. Los Angeles/Newport-Inglewood Fault (Magnitude 7.5)

      This earthquake would be a serious threat to the nearby,
densely-populated areas of Los Angeles. Shaking would cause extensive
structural damage throughout the Los Angeles Basin and liquefaction
near the coast would add still more destruction.

   5. San Diego Area/Rose Canyon Fault (Magnitude 7.0)

      This fault--a segment of an active zone of faults extending from
the Newport-Inglewood fault to Northern Mexico--would present the
greatest earthquake risk to the San Diego area. Severe damage due to
shaking and liquefaction could be expected in the coastal areas.
Because of unstable sea-bed sediments in the offshore area, local
tsunamis (tidal waves) are possible.

   6. Los Angeles/Santa Monica Fault (Magnitude 6.7 and 7.0) and
      Riverside/San Bernardino/Cucamonga Fault (Magnitude 6.8)

      These faults are part of a system of east-west tending faults
bordering the northern edge of the Los Angeles basin. This fault
system caused the 1971 San Fernando earthquake and is geologically
similar to the system that generated the large 1952 Kern County
earthquake. Although smaller in magnitude than the earthquakes
previously described, these postulated events are potentially quite
dangerous because of their vicinity to high population densities in
Southern California.

D. EARTHQUAKE EFFECTS

Detailed maps were prepared for each event showing qualitative estimates of ground shaking
intensity resulting from each earthquake. These estimates are indicative of the general severity
of damage to ordinary structures. Empirical formulae providing quantitative estimates of peak
ground motion at various distances from the postulated earthquakes were developed for use in
the effects of severe ground shaking on individual structures or critical facilities. No estimates
were made of localized effects, such as ground failures related to liquefaction (the complete
failure or loss of strength, of a saturated soil due to shaking), landslides, and fault rupture.
These effects can be far more destructive than ground shaking alone.

CHAPTER III

ASSESSMENT OF LOSSES FOR SELECTED POTENTIAL CALIFORNIA EARTHQUAKES

A. INTRODUCTION

As part of a program that FEMA and its predecessor agencies have had underway for a number
of years, property loss and casualty estimates were prepared in 1972 and 1973 for a number
of potential maximum credible earthquakes that could impact on the San Francisco and the Los
Angeles areas--North San Andreas (Richter magnitude 8.3), Hayward (Richter magnitude 7.4),
South San Andreas (Richter magnitude 8.3), and Newport-Inglewood (Richter magnitude 7.5). These
estimates have now been updated as part of the current assessment.

Estimates of property loss and casualties are based on the expected type and distribution of
damage for each postulated earthquake as determined by the size and location of the earthquake
and the distribution and character of the buildings and structures within the affected area.
Methodologies for estimates of this type are approximate at best. Consequently, the figures
shown below may vary upward or downward by as much as a factor of two or three. This degree
of uncertainty does not affect the validity of the conclusions of this report, however, since
there are greater uncertainties in all other aspects of emergency response planning.

B. PROPERTY LOSS ESTIMATES

The property loss estimates were obtained by first estimating the total replacement dollar
value of buildings and their contents, multiplying them by percentage loss factors (inferred
from the anticipated strength of shaking in each county), and then summing to obtain the aggregate
loss. Included in the estimates are private as well as Federal, State, and local government
buildings, insured and uninsured. Excluded from consideration is the replacement value of transportation
and communication facilities, dams, utility installations, and special purpose structures (e.g.,
convention centers and sports arenas). Also excluded is the potential damage resulting from
a major dam failure or the indirect dollar losses due to such factors as higher unemployment,
lower tax revenue, reduced productivity, and stoppage of industrial production. Experience
indicates that indirect losses could be approximately equal to the dollar amounts lost in buildings
and their contents. The property loss estimates for four postulated earthquakes on the faults
listed below are as follows.

TABLE 2

ESTIMATES OF PROPERTY LOSSES FOR REPRESENTATIVE EARTHQUAKES[1]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            Loss to          Loss of
                            Building         Contents         Total Loss
Fault                   ($ in Billions)  ($ in Billions)  ($ in Billions)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Northern San Andreas          25               13               38
Hayward                       29               15               44
Newport-Inglewood             45               24               69
Southern San Andreas          11                6               17
----------
   [1] Uncertain by a possible factor of two to three. Consequently, the number of fatalities will be strongly
influenced by the number of persons within high-occupancy buildings,
capable of collapsing, or by failure of other critical facilities such
as dams. Additional imponderables are the degree of saturation of the
ground at the time of the event and the possibility of weather
conditions conducive to the spread of fire. A conflagration such as
occurred in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, is not considered
likely to occur in any of the analyzed events, however, because of
improvements in fire resistance of construction and firefighting
techniques. Nonetheless, numerous smaller fires must be anticipated in
any of the analyzed events and a "Santa Ana type" wind could cause
serious problems.

An additional element of uncertainty in estimating casualties from earthquake stems from not
knowing where most of the population will be at the time of the earthquake. In the early morning
(i.e., 2:30 a.m.) most people are at home, by far the safest environment during a seismic emergency.
At 2:00 in the afternoon, on the other hand, the majority of people are at their places of
employment and therefore vulnerable to collapse of office buildings. Around 4:30 p.m. many
more people are in the streets and thus subject to injury due to falling debris or failures
of transportation systems. Consequently, depending on the time of day, wide variations in the
number of casualties can be expected.

Following are estimates of dead and injured (requiring hospitalization) for each of the four
representative faults and for the three time periods just discussed.

   [2] Injuries not requiring hospitalization are estimated to be
   from 15 to 30 times the number of deaths.
-------------------------------------------------------------------

D. OVERVIEW OF OTHER TYPES OF DAMAGE

For this assessment, estimates of damage to substantial numbers of different type facilities
essential to the immediate response capability were updated. Earthquakes associated with the
same four major fault systems identified earlier in this chapter were used as a basis for these
estimates. The types of facilities analyzed included hospitals, medical supply storages, blood
banks, and custodial care homes, together with their essential services and personnel resources.
Although newer hospitals in California are being built according to substantially improved
seismic safety standards and practices, older hospital facilities can be expected to be poorly
resistant to earthquakes.

Among residential buildings, single family homes are expected to suffer structural damage and
loss of contents. Damage to multifamily dwellings--particularly older buildings--would, in
all likelihood, be more extensive. Analysis of expected damage indicates that temporary housing
for as many as 200,000 families might be needed--a requirement calling for careful planning
and exceptional management skills.

Schools are judged to be among the safest facilities exposed to the earthquakes. Since passage
of the Field Act in 1933, after the Long Beach earthquake, school buildings in California have
been continuously improved to withstand seismic hazards.

As a result of continuing and substantial upgrading of design and construction practices in
the past 10 years, dams and reservoirs can be expected to show an improved performance in an
earthquake. Nonetheless, on a contingency basis, one dam failure might be assumed for each
planning effort.

Realizing the fact that 84 key communications facilities, earth stations, Department of Defense
voice and data switches, commercial transoceanic cable heads, Federal Telecommunications System
switches, and major direct distance dial switches are located within 55 miles of either Los
Angeles or San Francisco, damage must be expected to occur. With this realization, priorities
have been assigned to all critical circuits transiting the key facilities, based on established
criteria of criticality of service continuity. National warning systems circuitry, command
and control circuits, and circuits supporting diplomatic negotiations (of which a high concentration
exists in California) are examples of those circuits carrying high-restoration priority.

In the civil sector there would be 24 to 72 hours of minimal communications, with a possible
blackout of telephonic communications in the area immediately following an earthquake. The
commercial carriers would institute network control procedures to regain control of the situation
as fast as possible.

The impact on transportation facilities in any of the four hypothesized earthquakes could be
massive. Since the magnitude and severity is unprecedented in recent years, conclusions regarding
losses must be accepted as tentative. As in the case of hospitals, however, the lessons learned
in earthquakes during the past 10 years are being incorporated in the design and construction
of new facilities.

