Whether or not Louise ever thus openly expressed her admiration for the King, one may readily
believe that even a slight impression made upon the girl's imagination would be inevitably
deepened and strengthened in these days when the court life at Fontainebleau is described as
a delirium of ambition, pleasure and love. The merry-making and feasting continued, the fêtes
still being given in Madame's honor, and "the modest violet" might have remained hidden beneath
its leaves had not Madame Henriette's schemes involved Louise. It appears that the Queen Mother,
having in common with others observed the King's growing admiration for his beautiful sister-in-law,
expostulated with him, entreating him, in the name of dignity and decorum, to discontinue his
attentions to her. The King, angry and disconcerted that his actions should be criticised,
formed with the aid of the quick-witted Madame, who cared little for Louis but greatly enjoyed
her position as queen of the hour, a plot which involved several of the maids of honor. So
infamous was this plot of Madame's that one wonders that a woman, to whom kindness of heart
has been attributed, could have countenanced a scheme so cruel. "In order to hide their own
game," said Saint-Beuve, "the King was to pay make-believe attention to several of Madame's
maids of honor." The three selected were Mademoiselle de Pons, Mademoiselle de Chimerault,
and Mademoiselle de La Vallière. It soon appeared that the latter was the one whom the King
preferred to seem to be in love with. The plot soon thickened quite beyond Madame's anticipations,
the make-believe attentions became real, the other maids of honor were quite neglected, Madame
herself was forgotten, and while trying to dazzle the eyes of the public Louis himself was
bewildered, and soon found himself seriously in love with La Vallière, at least as seriously
in love as it was in his nature to be. And Louise was then and ever after deeply, hopelessly
in love with the King.

Is it strange that this innocent girl, little more than a child in years and experience, with
many to flatter and criticise, but none to counsel or protect, should have fallen into the
trap that was laid for her unwary feet? From her quiet village home she was suddenly, as Madame's
dame d'honneur, introduced to a new world, in which the King, young, handsome, and possessed
of all the graces and accomplishments of his age, was the central figure. Before she had time
to become accustomed to the life around her, the greatest temptation that could be offered
to a Frenchwoman of that day was presented to her. This monarch, the Roi Soleil to his adoring
satellites, was at her feet, telling her that he loved her, and her only, little Louise de
La Vallière, whom the haughty court dames had looked down upon as insignificant, lacking in
grace and even beauty. It was only a few short days since water parties, ballets, and fêtes
had been given in Madame's honor; the gayety continued, but Henriette was no longer the inspiration
of these festivities, which were planned for other beaux yeux, whose she does not know. Louise
was so modest and retiring, so anxious to spare the Queen sorrow and pain, that it was some
time before it transpired that the little Blésoise, whom Madame would not have condescended
to look upon as a possible rival, was the reigning favorite.

In the midst of the scheming, love making, jealousy, and carousing, the King's second child--the
little Princess Anne Elizabeth--opened her eyes to the light of the world, only to close them
again before the rejoicings at her birth were well over, even before the foreign ambassadors
who came to welcome her had reached Paris. The Queen was deeply grieved at the loss of her
child, Louis wept copiously over the family affliction, but being in greater need of distraction
than before we find him a few weeks later dancing gayly in a Ballet des Arts in company with
Mademoiselle de Mortmart, la belle Athenais, Mademoiselle de Sévigné, whom her fond mother
called the "prettiest girl in France," and Mademoiselle de La Vallière, who, despite her slight
lameness, danced to perfection, her slim figure, of the lissome slenderness that belongs to
early youth, showing to great advantage in the figures of the cotillon.

You know the sad story far better than I do. The few short years of enchantment when Louise
lived in the delirium of love's young dream, yet was never really happy, never enjoying her
honors as Duchesse de La Vallière, the royal favorite, because her conscience was ever awake
and her tender heart filled with remorse for the sorrow she had caused the Queen. The brief
years of enchantment were soon over, to be followed by disillusionment, when it was revealed
to Louise that the fickle heart of Louis had succumbed to other charms; the final flight from
court and the long years of repentance at the Carmelites.

Twice before Louise had taken refuge in a convent. The first time she sought to fly from her
passion and herself, to be brought back to court by the adoring King, the second flight was
when Louis had begun to transfer his attentions to Madame de Montespan, and finally, at thirty,
Louise de La Vallière retired to Chaillot to expiate whatever sins she had committed by thirty-six
long years of prayer and penitence. Having entered the Carmelites in the bright bloom of her
beauty, her lovely blonde hair severed from her graceful head, La Vallière was known ever after
as Sister Louise de la Miséricorde, and as if anything more were needed to complete the tragedy,
the King whom she had loved so deeply, to whom she had sacrificed her life, although at the
time much engrossed with Madame de Montespan, was incapable of forgiving Louise for quitting
the court, and never made the slightest effort to see her again. "He has forgotten her," wrote
the vivacious and outspoken Madame, mother of the Regent, "as much as if he had never known her."

In her repentance, which was evidently deep and sincere, La Vallière likened herself to three
great sinners, the Canaanitish woman, the woman of Samaria, and the Magdalen, and asked only
that her sins be forgiven. Bossuet, who received her confession, compared her to a dove taking
its flight heavenward, while Madame de Sévigné, who visited her at the Carmelites about the
time of the marriage of La Vallière's daughter to the Prince de Conti, wrote to Madame de Grignan:
"But what an angel she appeared to me! To my eyes she possessed all the charms of early days,
the same eyes and the same expression: the austere life, meagre fare and little sleep ni les
lui ont ni creusés ni battus. The severe costume has despoiled her of no grace or dignity;
indeed, this dress and this retreat add greatly to her dignity."

Just as we were leaving the château a pleasant diversion came in the form of a call from M.
La Tour, who had motored over from his father's country seat to dine with us to-night. I was
glad to see him, as I wished to thank him for a book which we found at the hotel, when we reached
here yesterday, which has added so much to our interest in the château. I tell M. La Tour that
if we dream to-night of court pageants at Blois, midnight strolls in the forest, and girlish
confidences under the Royal Oak, at Fontainebleau, it will be quite his fault for making the
story so real to us. Then, as if to deepen the impression already made, he proceeded to draw
us a picture of the cortège attending Louis XIV on his arrival at Blois,--the great state carriages
of wood and leather, with their Genoa velvet cushions and wide wheels, surrounded by outriders
advancing in perfect order, at a foot's pace, the musketeers in their brilliant uniform, the
horns of varying sorts exciting the dogs and horses,--movement, noise, color, a mirage of light
announced the King's approach to the château, of which nothing can now convey any adequate
idea unless it be the picturesque splendor and false majesty of a theatrical spectacle.

As M. La Tour described this brilliant scene, another arose before me unbidden, this last in
the dim religious light of the convent, where a woman still young, in the full maturity of
her beauty, is taking the veil, which is held for the former royal favorite by the neglected
Queen of Louis, Maria Teresa. Although some chroniclers tell us that the King's eyes were red
with weeping all the day before, he probably went hunting that day after pheasants, or whatever
game was in season, amid the flatteries and acclamations of his courtiers. So short was the
memory of a King! So long and deep was the repentance of a woman more sinned against than sinning!

The floral offerings, this evening, were handsomer than usual, having come from M. La Tour's
paternal gardens. Miss Cassandra and I have bouquets of sweet peas of exquisite shades of mauve,
purple and white, quite suitable for chaperones, while for Lydia was reserved a choice posy
of the blue forget-me-nots, that the French adore, surrounded by mignonette. Lydia is wearing
a soft grey voile gown to-night, cut low enough to reveal the roundness and whiteness of her
throat, and the blue flowers against her grey corsage made a perfect finish to the simple,
dainty costume, beside which they are exactly the color of her eyes. Upon this fact M. La Tour
is probably expatiating this minute, as they are talking together in the embrasure of a window
in this odd little room which answers the purpose of salon and writing room, in which I scribble
off these lines to you. We are all enjoying the young Frenchman's visit, with one exception
perhaps, Archie, who is smoking on the terrace alone. I can see his face from where I am sitting,
and it wears a rather careworn expression,--much as he used to look when he was interne at
the P----Hospital and had a particularly bad case under his care. Walter, who is writing at
a table near me, is laughing over my description, and says that this is a bad case for Archie
and M. La Tour, whatever it may be for Lydia, who Quaker-like is so self-contained and serene
of countenance that she does not betray her feelings by so much as the lifting of an eyelash.
She treats both of her admirers with charming impartiality.

"How is Archie ever going to find out whether Lydia cares for him, Zelphine?" This from Walter's
writing table, in a stage whisper. "Even you, inveterate matchmaker that you are, have met
your Waterloo for once. Angela, with all her roguish ways, wasn't a patch to this demure Lydia.
You certainly are having experiences, Zelphine, and are keeping your hand in for Christine
and Lisa when they come along. I feel sorry for poor old Archie; but we all have to have our
troubles in this line sooner or later."

"Then why have you added to Archie's troubles by urging M. La Tour to go with us to-morrow?"

"How could I help asking him," this in Walter's most persuasive tone, "when he has taken the
trouble to come over here to dine with us? In common decency I could do nothing else."

"Of course nothing will ever come of this, as M. La Tour's parents have no doubt arranged an
advantageous marriage for him, but----"

"Do you want anything to come of it, Zelphine?"

"How you tease! You know very well that I do not; but poor Archie's holiday is being spoiled,
all the same."

"Well, he can't go with us anyhow, Zelphine dear, for to-morrow is his mother's birthday, and
he will have to leave here betimes, in order to be at home to lunch with Madame La Tour. I
must go out on the terrace now and comfort Archie."

"Don't be too comforting, Walter, and why didn't you tell me before that M. La Tour could not
go with us to-morrow?"

"I did not quite realize how important his movements were, and after all he holds out a hope
of rejoining us at Chinon, on Monday."

This conversation with my good man, dear Margaret, will give you a fairly satisfactory idea
of a very unsatisfactory state of affairs except that I am not quite sure about Chinon. Walter
looked so mischievous, when he added that bit of information, that I am inclined to think he
made it up, on the spur of the moment, just to give me something to think about.

By the way, I am leaving the most important item for the end of this long letter. M. La Tour
brought a charming note from his mother, inviting us to lunch with her any day that suits us.
The Château La Tour is somewhere between Blois and Paris, not much out of our way; but we really
have not time to stop over even for a few hours, as Angela writes from Paris that the Dudleys
leave her on Tuesday to sail from Cherbourg. The child cannot stay at a hotel alone, and she
says that she is so busy over her trousseau that she has not time to join us here even for
a few days. So you see we have only Monday for Chinon, a night at Angers and a full day on
Tuesday, as we return to Paris, via Orleans, where we wish to have several hours en route for
the Joan of Arc associations.

It would be a delightful experience to lunch at the Château La Tour, but under the circumstances,
a trifle embarrassing. Archie would flatly refuse to go, I am sure, and Walter would think
it a perfect bore, so it is just as well that we have a good, ready-made excuse. I don't know
what Miss Cassandra thinks about the situation of affairs, as for once in her life she is as
discreet and non-committal as Lydia; but she is evidently much disappointed about the luncheon
at the Château La Tour. She is always ready for a new experience, and is eager to meet Madame
La Tour, who claims cousinship with her. However, this last pleasure may be only deferred,
as Madame hopes to call upon us in Paris later in the month.

XII

THREE CHÂTEAUX

                              HÔTEL DE FRANCE, Blois, September 11th.

THIS has been a golden day of pure delight, with a brilliant sunshine from early morn to dewy
eve, and a cool, refreshing air, an altogether ideal day for our prolonged visitations among
the châteaux around Blois! Lydia and I went to the little Protestant church with Miss Cassandra
this morning, as a salve to our consciences, Archie says, in view of the giddy round of pleasure
that we had planned for the afternoon. He and Walter tried to beguile Lydia from our side,
to spend the morning in roaming about Blois with them; but she is a loyal little soul and resisted
all their blandishments with sweet steadfastness, saying that after following the Huguenots
through all the miseries that were heaped upon them, the least that we can do is to honor their
memories in their chapel here at Blois.

Archie says that we are quite right and that this sentiment is praiseworthy; but that as he
and Walter were unable to honor these heroic souls in their own language, to attend such a
service would be a mockery.

"Yes," Walter added, "it would seem like a bit of play-acting to sit there in church, like
two whited sepulchres, trying to look as if we understood when we should not know six words
of what was being said."

Miss Cassandra, being accustomed to religious service where not a word is spoken in any language,
naturally does not think much of these arguments; but having a strong liking for my two men
she is quite willing to excuse them from accompanying us to the chapel. Nor do I wonder that
they are glad to have a fine morning in which to roam about this interesting old town together,
and to give zest and point to their rambles, M. La Tour has told them of an ancient coin associated
with the history of Blois. This coin is said to be the oldest document in existence on, or
in, which the name of Blois is inscribed, it also bears the name of the officer of the mint
at Blois at the time of its issue, far back in history. Of course Walter and Archie are very
anxious to see this ancient coin, and M. La Tour has given them a letter of introduction to
the man who has charge of it, which he assured them would admit them to a view of it Sundays
or holidays, or any time in the day or night.

We enjoyed the service in the little church, where we heard a really eloquent discourse from
an old pasteur with the most beautiful, benevolent face that you can imagine. We are quite
sure that this handsome, venerable clergyman comes from a long line of heroic Huguenot ancestors,
and Miss Cassandra says that she did not mind so much not understanding what he said, as she
was quite sure that it was all to edification, which she evidently does not always feel with
regard to the long tales that the guides spin off for us, and in truth Lydia and I have tripped
them up more than twice in their history. We returned to the hotel quite enthusiastic about
the chapel and its pastor, and Miss Cassandra is already planning some benevolent scheme to
help the evidently struggling congregation. If her means were equal to her charitable intent,
what would she not do for the benefit of mankind in all quarters of the globe? Walter and Archie
were so impressed by her description of "the venerable descendant of a long line of massacred
Huguenots" that they have made substantial acknowledgments to be sent by Lydia and myself to
the patrons of the little chapel.

The idea of visiting three châteaux in one afternoon was rather appalling at first; but the
afternoon was long, beginning soon after our twelve o'clock déjeuner, and the roads are fine
for motoring in this level country. Our way lay for some miles by Loire, first on one bank
and then on the other. This flat country, with its wide reaches of meadow land and distant
horizon lines, has a charm of its own, its restfulness suits the drowsy autumn days, and no
trees could be better fitted to border these roadsides and river banks than the tall slim Lombardy
poplars, with their odd bunches of foliage atop like the plumes and pompons on soldiers' caps.
Down by some of the streams large white poplars have spread out their branches, making coverts
from the sunshine for man and beast. On these poplars we noticed what looked like huge green
nests. "Are they crows' nests?" we asked, as there seem to be no end of crows all about here.

"No, not for the corbeaux," said the chauffeur, shaking his head and looking fairly puzzled,
as he explained with some elaboration that this was a parasitic plant which drew its nourishment
from various trees, and that later in the season white, waxlike berries would appear upon it.

"It is the mistletoe!" exclaimed Lydia, joyously, as if meeting an old friend in a strange
land, and as she was, as usual, conducting the general information course, she asked the chauffeur
if it was not used for decoration at Christmas and the New Year, being hung where lovers were
likely to pass, a custom derived from the rites of the ancient Druids. The chauffeur was evidently
unacquainted with the ways of the Druids, his studies in folk lore not having been extensive;
but the bit about the lovers he understood, and in that curious way, that has so often surprised
us, perhaps by a certain mental telepathy, he suddenly understood, slapped his hand upon his
knee, and exclaimed, "Yes, yes, Mademoiselle, it is the same thing, le mis-le-toe, le gui."

So it is le gui, that we see on so many trees, and this man, evidently of the soil, as he knows
all about the products here, tells us that it grows upon pear, apple and other trees and is
cut off and sent in great quantities to the large towns for holiday celebrations.

From the level landscape with low-lying meadows and fields of turnips in which men and women
were at work, we suddenly saw the great round towers of Chaumont rising from among the trees
of a well-wooded ridge. Like Langeais, Chaumont is a strong fortress of the middle ages, dark
and lowering at a first view, but with much beauty in its hillside park and gardens. We crossed
a creaking, swaying suspension bridge, one is always crossing bridges here, as the Loire winds
itself around these châteaux as if it delighted to encircle them in its shining arms.

The best view of the château is from this bridge, which connects the villages of Chaumont and
Onzain. From this coign of vantage it rises before us, crowning the hill-crest with its many
towers and dominating the little village at its feet and the broad river. The Loire is twice
as wide here as at Blois, its surface broken up by many sand bars and stretches of pebbly beach,
such brilliantly colored pebbles as we used to see in Northern Italy, when the rivers were
low as these are here to-day. Much the same view is this as John Evelyn's first sight of Chaumont,
on a May day long ago: "We took boate," wrote Evelyn, "passing by Chaumont, a proud castle
on the left hand; before it a small island deliciously shaded with tall trees." As we motored
through the village street, whose houses run parallel with the river, we noticed that the town
seemed to be en fête. The outside of the little church was decorated with banners, lanterns
and flowers, while within it was so filled to overflowing with villagers, and small maidens
in white frocks and pink and blue sashes, that we could scarcely get our noses within the doorway.
The village was celebrating some church festival, the chauffeur told us; but we stupidly forget
which saint was being honored, perhaps because the remainder of the afternoon was spent among
those who had small claim to saint-hood, and then as Miss Cassandra says, "There are so many
of these saints, how can we ever keep track of them all?"

"And it is so much easier to remember the sinners," Walter adds, "because there is always something
doing among them."

Leaving the auto in the village, we climbed up to the castle by a steep and narrow path and
entered the great doorway where the moat and drawbridge between the huge round towers again
reminded us of Langeais. Over this entrance are the graven initials of Louis and Anne of Brittany,
the arms of George of Amboise with his cardinal's hat, and the double C's of Charles of Chaumont
and his wife, Catherine of Chauvigny. Here also are some scattered D's which stand for Diane
of Poitiers, who consented to accept this château when Catherine offered her a Hobson's choice
of Chaumont or nothing. We were especially interested in a rich frieze in which were intertwined
the double C's and the odd device of the burning mountain, "Chaud-mont," from which, it is
said, the name of the château was derived. As Chaumont is still inhabited, we were not shown
the whole of the castle, but fortunately for us the suite of historic rooms was on view. Here
again we came upon associations with the dreadful Catherine, whose bedroom and furniture are
shown to visitors. Whether or not these articles are genuine, and grave doubts are thrown upon
their authenticity, they are very handsome and of the proper period. The tapestries in these
rooms are all old and charming in color, of old rose and pink. A description which I came across
in a delightful book by Mr. Theodore A. Cook, which M. La Tour brought us from his mother's
library, gives a better idea of this tapestry than any words of mine: "Beside the door a blinded
Love with rose-red wings and quiver walks on the flushing paths, surrounded by strange scrolls
and mutilated fragments of old verses; upon the wall in front are ladies with their squires
attending, clad all in pink and playing mandolins, while by the stream that courses through
the flowery meadows small rosy children feed the water birds, that seem to blush with pleasure
beneath the willow boughs of faded red."

Next to the so-called room of Catherine de Médicis is the chamber attributed to Ruggieri, the
chosen aide and abettor of her schemes, which apartment very properly communicates with a private
stairway leading to the platform of the tower which is said to have been used by him as an
observatory. Whether or not Catherine ever inhabited these rooms, and we know that she never
lived for any length of time at Chaumont, I must confess that seeing them thus conveniently
placed for plotting and adventure, they impressed us even more than her secret stairways and
poison cupboards at Blois. This may have been because these rooms are small and dark and dreary,
Ruggieri's being in one of the corner towers, with small windows cut in the wall, which is
over two metres in thickness. From whatever reason, these apartments are the most weird and
ghostly that we have seen, fitted up as they are with many memorials of Catherine, and two
portraits of her, one in a rich costume, an extinguisher gown with pink underskirt and wide
full sleeves bordered with a band of fur, each one as large as an ordinary muff. There is also
a portrait of Ruggieri here, whose dark, sinister face adds much to the grewsomeness of the
room, and standing here we could readily imagine the scene, described by a chronicler of the
time, when the Queen sought Ruggieri here among his philters, minerals, foreign instruments,
parchments and maps of the heavens, to consult him about the future of her offspring. This
was soon after the death of Henry II, when the young King's health had begun to break down.
When the Queen desired to be shown the horoscopes of her children, by some skillful arrangement
of mirrors the astrologer made her four sons to pass before her, each in turn wearing crowns
for a brief period; but all dying young and without heirs, each figure was to turn around as
many times as the number of years he was to live. Poor Francis appeared, wan and sickly, and
before he had made an entire circle he passed out of sight, from which the Queen knew that
the young King would die before the year was out, which, as we know, came true, as did some
of the other prognostications. What must have filled to the brim the cup of misery which this
ambitious, disappointed woman had held to her lips, was to see the rival of her sons, the bitterly
hated Henry of Navarre, following their shadows upon the mirror and making over twenty turns,
which meant that he would reign in France for twenty years, or more. By whatever means the
astrologer accomplished these predictions, the remarkable thing about them is that the account
of this interview at Chaumont was written during the reign of Henry III, before some of them
had been fulfilled. Catherine, firmly believing in Ruggieri's prognostications, left the château
a sadder if not a wiser woman.

The rooms of Catherine communicate directly with the chapel, where there is a most realistic
picture of The Last Judgment, and her book of the hours lies open on her prie dieu as if she
had just finished her devotions. For good and sufficient reasons, we do not think of this Queen
at prayer as readily as we figure her taking part in affairs of state, plotting for the destruction
of her enemies and trying to hoodwink the Huguenots and Leaguers in turn.

"And yet," as Walter reminds us, "Catherine was extremely devout, with all her deviltry." You
may remember a portrait of her in fine enamel at the Louvre, which represents Catherine kneeling
before an altar, her hands devoutly clasped, and as if to give point to the time-honored adage
"handsome is that handsome does," the Queen's face, in this enamel, possesses some claim to
good looks.

M. La Tour has been telling us of some old papers, recently brought to light, which prove that
Catherine, during the babyhood of her children, was an anxious and watchful mother. She seems
to have written careful and minute directions regarding the food and clothing of her little
ones, in one instance directing that her son Henry should not be encouraged to eat largely,
adding, like any wise mother of to-day, "I am of opinion that my children are rather ill from
being too fat than too thin." The evidence of this opinion is borne out by Clouet's drawings
of the chubby face of Henry and the fat, heavy cheeks of Francis II, both in their babyhood.
It was little Francis, an unassertive prince in after years, who at the age of two insisted
upon discarding his petticoats, upon which the King, when consulted upon this important question,
wrote to the governor of the royal nursery, "It is right indeed that my son should wear breeches
if he asks for them; for I do not doubt that he knows perfectly well what is needful."

These intimate details of the youth of the royal children, trifling as they are, add a human
interest to the figures of Henry II and Catherine, whom we only think of as sweeping through
these châteaux in form and state, and raise a question as to whether, after all, this cruel
Queen had not a heart somewhere tucked away under her jewelled bodice.

Chaumont has many associations earlier than the days of Catherine, reaching back to Charles
of Amboise, who built much of the château, and to his father Georges, one of the chief ministers
of Louis XII. It is said that Georges of Amboise used his tact and influence to gain the papal
bull necessary for the King's divorce from Jeanne of France, which was brought to Chinon by
Cæsar Borgia, with great state and ceremony. It was this same papal envoy who brought Georges
d'Amboise his cardinal's hat. Unscrupulous as he may have been in some instances, Cardinal
d'Amboise seems to have been, in the main, a wise and judicious minister and helped Louis to
institute many important reforms.

The romance of Chaumont is its association with the knightly figure of Henri Coiffier de Ruzé,
Marquis de Cinq Mars. The opening scene of De Vigny's novel rises before us, as we pass through
the rooms of Chaumont. The young Marquis was about to set forth upon his ill-fated journey
into the great world, and the members of his family were gathered together for a solemn, farewell
meal. De Vigny represents the poor youth neglecting his dinner, and even indifferent to his
mother's sorrow over his departure in his desire to meet the beautiful eyes of Marie de Gonzague,
who was seated at the other end of the table, from whom he was soon to part forever. It was
by a lattice window in the rez-de-chaussée of the western tower that Cinq-Mars found Marie
waiting for him, when he retraced his steps and came back at midnight for a last word with
her. We looked in vain for the window by which the lovers swore eternal fidelity to their love
and to each other; but the château has doubtless undergone some changes since those early days,
although it looks so ancient. Lydia and I were wishing for a copy of Cinq-Mars in order to
follow the young Marquis through his sad and singular experience at Loudun, his meeting with
his old friend De Thou, his brilliant exploit at Perpignan, his rapid preferment at court,
and--just here Walter called us from our rapid review of the career of Cinq-Mars to show us
a head of Benjamin Franklin in terra cotta. This excellent low relief of Franklin is in a case
with a number of other medallions, made by an Italian, Nini, whom the owner of Chaumont brought
here in the hope of turning to account some clay found on the estate. This admirable medallion
excited the two antiquarians of the party more than anything we have seen here, even more than
the weird sky parlor of Ruggieri. Walter is wondering whether this is not the medallion about
which Dr. Franklin wrote to his daughter soon after his arrival at Passy, as the first of its
kind made in France. This idea seems more probable, in view of the fact that the same M. Le
Ray, who owned Chaumont at that time, was Franklin's host at Passy for nine years. All of which,
as Walter says, makes it more than likely that the old philosopher came to Chaumont to have
his portrait modelled by Nini, especially as his relations with the master of Chaumont were
of the most friendly nature. The old potteries in which the Italian artist worked have long
since been turned into stables and a riding school.

Another familiar and even more recent figure associated with Chaumont is Madame de Staël, who
took refuge here, while reading the proofs of her work upon Germany, Chaumont being the requisite
forty leagues from Paris. M. Le Ray and his family, with whom Madame de Staël was upon the
most intimate terms, were in America at this time. Here in the old château the De Staëls lived
for some time, the authoress working in peace and quietness upon her great work. When M. Le
Ray and his family returned to Chaumont, although hospitably invited to remain at the château,
Madame de Staël insisted upon removing with her family to a villa in the neighborhood, which
was placed at her disposal by M. de Salaberry. At this place, called Fossé, Madame de Staël
welcomed Madame Récamier and other friends, and with the charming French trait of making the
most of the joys of the hour, she wrote with enthusiasm of the happy days that she passed near
her friends at Chaumont. Even if the old Vendean soldier, the châtelain of Fossé, took little
care of his estate, she said that his constant kindness made everything easy and his original
turn of mind made everything amusing. "No sooner had we arrived," wrote Madame de Staël, "than
an Italian musician whom I had with me, to give lessons to my daughter, began to play the guitar.
My daughter accompanied on the harp the sweet voice of my fair friend, Madame Récamier; the
peasants assembled below the windows astonished to find this colony of troubadours who came
to enliven the solitude of their master. It was there that I passed my last days in France,
with a few friends whose memories are cherished in my heart. Surely this reunion so intimate,
this solitary sojourn, this delightful dalliance with the fine arts could hurt no one."

Charming, innocent, pastoral seems this life, as Madame de Staël described it, and yet even
such simple pleasures as these she was not allowed to enjoy, for during a brief visit to the
home of M. de Montmorency, an attempt was made to seize her manuscripts, which her children
had fortunately put in a place of safety; her book was suppressed and she was ordered to leave
France within three days.

When Madame de Staël asked why she was treated with such harshness by the government and why
her book was censured, the answer given under the signature of the ministry plainly stated
that the head and front of her offending consisted in her not having mentioned the Emperor
in her last work. It is difficult to believe that a man who could do such great things as Napoleon
could be so small as to follow this brilliant woman with bitter, relentless hatred, because
she failed to burn incense at his shrine.

Although we were not given the freedom of the grounds, we were shown the beautiful court of
honor with its one fine tree, a cedar of Lebanon which spreads its branches quite close to
the chapel walls. There is an old Italian well in this court, with low reliefs carved upon
its sides, and graceful ornaments of wrought iron above the sweep. We pictured to ourselves
the Marquis de Cinq Mars and Marie de Gonzague meeting in this court, under the friendly branches
of the great cedar, and so with a tender thought for these hapless old-time lovers, we turned
away from Chaumont. Still musing and dreaming over its numerous and varied associations, we
motored along toward Cheverny. This was an afternoon in which to dream,--the air was full of
a delicious drowsy autumnal warmth, and a soft haze hung over the Loire and its tributaries.
Involuntarily our thoughts turn back to the time when the kings and nobles of France made their
stately progress along these same roads, many of them Roman roads, for the great road-builders
were all over this country as in England. Upon these highways over which we speed along in
an auto, great lumbering stage coaches once made their way, and in the fields, as to-day, were
the toilers, the husband and wife, as in the Angelus of Millet. For an instant they would look
up from their work to see what all the racket was about, and take a momentary interest in the
gilded coaches, the gay outriders, the richly caparisoned horses, and all the pomp and circumstance
of royalty. If near the highway, they would catch a fleeting glimpse of the beautiful face
of some royal or noble dame, and seeing only the rich brocade of her gown, the jewels upon
her breast and the gay feathers and flowers in her hat, they would turn back to their toil
with a half-formulated wonder why life was a holiday to these favored ones and only bitter
toil and hardship to nous autres. Thomas Jefferson's proposition, that all men are created
free and equal, would have shocked these simple souls as it would their lords and masters,
and yet a seed of thought was slumbering in their slow minds, germinating for a future awakening,
a small seed that was destined to become a thousand in the sad and terrible reprisals of the
French Revolution. To these starved peasants luxury stood for happiness, never themselves knowing
the satisfaction of a full comfortable meal, it would have been impossible to make them believe
that this outward show and splendor did not mean that these men and women, who rolled along
in coaches and fed sumptuously every day, were the supremely blessed of the earth. And yet
along these roads passed the coaches of the heavy hearted as well as of the gay. By much the
same way that we are going journeyed the unhappy Princess Joanne when her husband, Louis XII,
was minded to put her away to give place to a more ambitious marriage. Another royal lady to
whom a crown brought naught but sorrow and disappointment was the gentle Louise de Vandemont-Lorraine,
wife of Henry III, who fared this way to the home of her widowhood at Chenonceaux, and by much
the same route passed Marie de Médicis when she fled from Blois and found refuge and aid at Loches.

As Cheverny and Chaumont are not far apart, we were aroused from our reflections by a sudden
stop at a little smithy near the gates of the park. A most charming little smithy is this,
with a niched saint on the outside, vines clambering all over the wall, and a picturesque outside
staircase with a little balcony above. The blacksmith, himself, as he stood framed in by the
doorway, made a picture that we thought well worth taking. Unfortunately the saint in the niche
could not come in, as it was some distance from the door, but just at the right moment Lydia,
quite unconsciously, stepped before the lens, and near the stone stairway which she had been
examining.

"Far better than a saint!" said Archie under his breath, and then aloud, "Keep still, Miss
Mott, the blacksmith will stay, I am sure, as he looks as if he had been built into that door."

I think we shall be able to send you a photograph of our little smithy, and perhaps one of
the church across the road, which is quaint and interesting, with its timbered verandas (one
cannot, by any stretch of courtesy, call them cloisters) and something like a lych-gate at
the entrance. Within are some marbles and memorial tablets of the Hurault family. It seems
that the Huraults owned the Seignory of Cheverny as long ago as the fourteenth century, "before
we Americans were discovered," as Miss Cassandra says. Early in the sixteenth century, one
Raoul Hurault built a château here, of which little or nothing is left. The present château
was built by a later Hurault, in 1634, and, after passing through several hands, it was bought,
in 1825, by the Marchioness Hurault de Vibraye, and being thus returned to the family of the
original owners, is still in their possession. A wonderful tale was this for American ears!

Cheverny, with its well wooded park, and its avenue six kilometres in length, is a noble domain;
but the outside of the château, although its architecture has been highly praised, did not
impress us particularly. This may be because the mansion is situated on a level sweep of lawn,
laid out after the English style, instead of crowning a great bluff like Blois, Amboise and
Chaumont. The interior of Cheverny leaves nothing to be desired. It is elegant, aristocratic,
and yet most delightfully homelike, with its spacious hall, richly decorated royal bedroom,
and salon as livable as an English drawing room, with books, magazines and writing materials
scattered over the centre table. On the panelled walls are gathered together a goodly and graceful
company of noble lords and beautiful ladies, among them a fine full-length portrait of Philippe
Hurault, Count de Cheverny, Chancellor of Finance under Henry IV, and opposite him his beautiful
and stately wife, Anne de Thou, Dame de Cheverny, in a gown of black velvet garnished with
rich lace. This noble lady was related, in some way, to the gallant young De Thou who perished
on the scaffold with his friend Cinq Mars. Over the chimney-place is a charming portrait by
Mignard of the daughter, or daughter-in-law, of Anne de Thou, Marie Johanne de Saumery, Marquise
de Montglat, Countess de Cheverny. The subject of this lovely portrait bears with distinction
her long array of cumbersome titles, while the airy grace of the figure and the innocent sweetness
of the rounded girlish face are irresistibly attractive. Above the chimney-place, in which
this portrait is set in the white wainscot, is the monogram (HV) which one finds all over the
château, a proof that this ancient family is légitimiste to the core, and devoutly loyal to
whatever is left of the ancient line of the Bourbons. In the salle à manger, the monogram of
the last Henry of this royal house is especially conspicuous. We were puzzling over the name
of the pretender of to-day when the guide informed our ignorance, with a most superior manner
of knowing it all and wondering that we did not know it also. From what he gave forth in rapid
French with many gestures, we gathered that on the death of the Comte de Paris his eldest son,
Philippe Robert, Duc d'Orléans, became heir to the house of Bourbon, founded in 886 by Robert
le Fort, with the title Philippe VII. The Duc de Bourdeaux, always known as the Comte de Chambord
after he became owner of the château of the same name, was heir to the throne, through the
elder branch of the house, that is, as the grandson and eldest descendant of Charles X, the
last of the elder branch that reigned in France. Some little time before his death, the Comte
de Chambord was reconciled to the younger or Orleans branch, which had usurped the throne after
the expulsion of Charles X. By this act the Comte de Paris was recognized as the legitimate
successor to the throne. The present Duke of Orleans, should the monarchy be restored, would
rule as Philippe VII. The Comte de Chambord took the title Henri V, as the next Henri after
the king of Navarre, Henri IV. The Comte de Chambord bequeathed the Château of Chambord, which
was his personal property, to his kinsman, the Duke de Parme, who was a Bourbon of the Spanish
line, being the descendant of the grandson of Louis XIV, who was elected to the Spanish throne
in 1700. From the pride with which this information was communicated we realized that this
very superior gardien was, like the noble master and mistress of Cheverny, legitimist to the
ends of his fingers.

While listening to this genealogical disquisition our eyes turned to a most attractive looking
tea table which was set forth with superb silver, and thin slices of bread and butter and cake.
With appetites sharpened by our long ride through the fresh air, I fear that we all gazed longingly
at that tempting regale, and for Miss Cassandra, Lydia and I positively trembled. With her
strong feeling that the world was made for herself and those whom she loves, it would not have
surprised us to see the good lady sit down at this hospitable looking table and invite the
rest of the party to join her. Lydia adroitly led the conversation toward Chambord and the
afternoon tea which our chauffeur had promised us there, adding, gracefully, "It is very kind
of the Marquise to allow us to go through her beautiful château while the family is in residence."
"Yes," assented Miss Cassandra, "but how much more hospitable if she would invite us to drink
tea with her!" After admiring the beautifully decorated ceiling and the handsome leather hangings,
we left the dining room and its temptations for what was a much greater attraction to the men
of the party, the fine suits of armor in the Salle des Gardes.

Although Cheverny cherishes its Bourbon traditions, like the proverbially happy nation and
happy woman it has no history to speak of, having even escaped the rigors of the French Revolution.
In the past, as to-day, this château seems to have been a homelike and peaceful abode, its
long façade and pavilions having looked down through many centuries upon a smiling garden and
a vast lawn, which shut it in from the world beyond even more effectually than its great gates.

From Cheverny our way lay across a stretch of open, level country and then through the forest
of Chambord, which includes 11,000 acres of woodland. By the time we reached the château, we
were, as Miss Cassandra expresses it in classic phrase, "faint yet pursuing" for lack of the
refreshment to which we were not made welcome at Cheverny. Our chauffeur, being accustomed
to famished pilgrims, conducted us at once to a garden café quite near the château, from whence
we could study its long façade while enjoying our tea and pâtisserie. And what a huge monument
is this château of Chambord to the effete monarchy of France, built up from the life-blood
and toil of thousands! It impressed us as more brutally rich and splendid than any of the palaces
that we had seen, rising as it does in its great bulk so unexpectedly from the dead level of
the sandy plain, with no especial reason for its existence except the will of a powerful sovereign.
It is not strange that the salamander of Francis I appears upon so many of the châteaux of
France, for to this art-loving, luxurious, and débonnaire King she owes Chambord, Fontainebleau,
St. Germain and the smaller châteaux of Azay-le-Rideau, Anet and Villers-Cotterets. Although
Francis I brought from Italy, to beautify his palaces, Leonardo Da Vinci, Primaticcio, Benvenuto
Cellini, Florentin Rosso and other foreign artists, it has been decided by those who know more
about the matter than we do, that Chambord owes more to its first architect, Maître Pierre
le Nepvue, dit Trinqueau, than to anyone else. It seemed to us that this master hand was happier
in the construction of Chenonceaux, Blois and some of the other châteaux of France, than here
at Chambord, but this is a matter of individual taste. Vast, palatial, magnificent Chambord
certainly is, and much more attractive on the north façade, where the château is reflected
in the waters of the Cosson, than from the café where we were seated. The long line of buildings
in the south front is somewhat monotonous, even broken as it is by the several towers, and
the great central lantern, which appears to the best advantage from this side. Rich as is all
the ornamentation of Chambord, it is skyward that it breaks forth into the greatest exuberance
of Renaissance decoration. We reached the central lantern, with the single fleur-de-lis atop,
by one of the remarkable staircases for which the palaces of Francis I are so famous. This
staircase, which is formed by two spirals starting from different points, and winding about
the same hollow shaft in the centre, is so constructed that persons can go up and down without
meeting. Mr. Henry James considered this double staircase "a truly majestic joke," but in days
when courts lived and moved and had their being in intrigues, schemes and plots, it doubtless
had its uses.

Mademoiselle de Montpensier gives in her diary an amusing account of her first acquaintance
with this double stairway. She came, when a child, to Chambord to visit her father, Gaston,
Duke of Orleans, who stood at the top of the stairs to receive her, and called to her to come
to him. As she flew up one flight her agile parent ran down the other; upon which the little
girl gave chase, only to find that when she had gained the bottom he was at the top. "Monsieur,"
she said, "laughed heartily to see me run so fast in the hope of catching him, and I was glad
to see Monsieur so well amused."

Having reached the central lantern we found ourselves upon a flat roof, surrounded by a perfectly
bewildering maze of peaks, pinnacles, lanterns, chimneys and spires, which constitute what
our guide is pleased to call the ensemble de la toiture. This vast terrace, which covers the
main building of the palace, is one of the architectural marvels of France. Here it seems as
if the architect had allowed himself unlimited freedom in decoration, in which he was aided
by such artists as Jean Goujon and Cousin, who zealously worked upon the ornamentation of these
bell turrets, balconies and towers, as if to prove the sincerity and beauty of French art.
This luxuriant flowing forth, in stone carving, of foliage, flower, boss and emblem, has resulted
in an ensemble of indescribable charm, the dazzling light stone of Bourré, of which the château
is built, lending itself harmoniously to the elaborate Renaissance decoration.

It was of Jean Goujon, whose exquisite work we see now and again in these châteaux, that some
writer has said, that the muse of Ronsard whispered in the ear of the French sculptor, and
thus Goujon's masterpieces were poems of Ronsard translated in marble. It is a rather pretty
fancy, but Lydia and I cannot remember its author. Walter says that he can understand why the
Counts of Blois built their castle here, as this place seems to have formed part of a system
of fortresses which guarded the Loire, making it possible, in the time of Charles VII, for
Joan of Arc to move her army up the river to Orleans; but why Francis should have transformed
this old castle into a palace is not so easy to understand. When so many more attractive sites
were to be found, it seems strange that he should have chosen this sandy flat upon the border
of what was then the sad and barren Solange. One reason given is that the country about Chambord
was rich in game, and we know that Francis was an inveterate hunter; another theory is that
a charming woman, the Comtesse de Thoury, one of the early loves of the King, had a manor in
the neighborhood.

"Both excellent reasons!" exclaimed Archie, "Dame Quickly is evidently an apt student of human
nature."

These various surmises and bits of information were poured into our ears by the guide, a plump
and merry soul, whom Archie at once dubbed Dame Quickly. As she conducted us from room to room,
she turned to me and, with a flash of her black eyes, exclaimed, "If these walls could speak,
what tales they could tell!" adding that, for her part, she believed that the King came here
for the hunting, the Comtesse de Thoury having been a love of his youth, and, with a knowing
shake of her head, "You know, Mesdames, how short is the memory of man for an early love, especially
a king's memory, when another is always to be found to take the vacant place." When we explained
this philosophic reflection upon their sex to the men of the party, they declared that an unfair
advantage was being taken by this facetious dame, simply because they were not able to answer
back and vindicate the eternal fidelity of man. Then, as if divining what was being said, through
her quick woman's instinct, she drew us toward a window in the study of Francis I and showed
us these lines scratched upon one of the panes:

          Souvent femme varie;
          Mal habile qui s'y fie.

Some discredit is thrown upon the authenticity of these lines, and if Francis wrote them in
his old age, his point of view must have greatly changed since his earlier days, when he so
gaily and gallantly said that a court without ladies was a year without spring and a spring
without roses. Francis spent much of his time in his later years at Chambord, his chief solace
being the companionship of his lovely sister, Marguerite, Queen of Navarre, the author of the
Heptameron, whose beauty and intellect were the inspiration of many French poets.

One of the pleasing sides of the character of the King was his devoted affection for this sister,
with whom he had spent a happy youth at Amboise, and she, loving him beyond any other being,
wrote verses to express her grief when they were separated. A varied, many-sided, personality
was Francis I, and with all his faults possessed of a charm of his own, and a taste in the
fine arts that added much to the beauty of his kingdom. Something of this we said to Dame Quickly,
who replied, with another wise shake of her head, "The history of Francis is a wonderful history,
Mesdames, made up of many things. There is always state policy, and religion, et un peu les
femmes," the knowing look and shrug with which this bit of wisdom was communicated is simply
untranslatable.

Only a few of the 365 rooms of Chambord are furnished; we were shown the bedroom of the late
Comte de Chambord, a ghostly apartment, it seemed to us in the fading daylight, the bed hung
with elaborate tapestries, the work of the loyal hands of the ladies of Poitou. Miss Cassandra
asked the guide if she would not be afraid to sleep in this dismal chamber. "No," she answered,
"there are no revenants here, the great people who lived here do not walk, they had such an
active life with their hunting and fêtes that they are content to rest quietly in their beds."

We passed through the council chamber of the château, where there are more tapestries, these
presented by the loyal inhabitants of Blois and the Limousin districts, and here also is a
quite useless throne donated by some devoted legitimists. In the chapel, we were shown some
tapestry worked by Madame Royale, during her imprisonment in the Temple, that daughter of Marie
Antoinette who alone survived her unfortunate family and as Duchesse d'Angoulême lived to quite
an advanced age.

The fast-fading daylight made it impossible to see many of the portraits in the great reception
room; among them we noticed two portraits of Anne of Austria, and a Van Loo of the beautiful
unloved Queen of Louis XV, Marie Leczinska. In this picture she appears so graceful and charming
that one wonders how the King could have been insensible to her attractions; but one need never
be surprised at the vagaries of royalty, and it is not to be expected that diplomatic alliances
should be happy.

What interested the men of the party especially, was the little light wagon in which, we were
told, the owner of Chambord, the Duc de Parme, went a hunting with that good legitimist, the
Master of Cheverny.

"I am glad," said Walter, "that the noble Duke has a neighbor of the same stripe to go a hunting
with him, the grandeur of this great palace without a friendly neighbor to come in and take
a hand at cards or crack a joke with him, would be simply appalling."

"The idea of jokes in this vast mausoleum of departed grandeur!" exclaimed Miss Cassandra.
"It would be like dancing in a cemetery. Do ask that lively black-eyed dame how many there
are in family when the owners are at home."

"Monsieur le Duc has twenty-two children," was the reply. "He lives in Italy, but comes here
sometimes for the hunting."[B]

"And does he bring his family with him?"

"Pas tout le monde at the same time, Madame, although we have enough rooms for them all."

Laughing over this ready rejoinder, we parted from our merry cicerone with exchanges of compliments
and a clink of silver. I am quite sure that Walter and Archie gave her the fee twice over because
of her beaux yeux and her merry wit.

It is late, and I am tired after the grande tournée, as they call our afternoon trip here,
and Walter reminds me

          "That the best of all ways
           To lengthen our days
           Is not to steal a few hours from the night, my dear."

FOOTNOTE:

[B] Since Mrs. Leonard wrote of this conversation at Chambord, the château has passed into
the possession of Prince Sixtus de Bourbon, son and heir of the late Duke of Parma. The present
owner of Chambord in making good his title to the château testified that not a penny of its
revenue has ever been applied to any other purposes than the restoration and upkeep of the domain.

XIII

CHINON AND FONTEVRAULT

                              LE CHEVAL BLANC, ANGERS, September 12th.

FATE certainly seemed to be against my seeing Chinon to-day, as we awoke this morning to hear
the rain pattering against our windows. A rather disconsolate party, we gathered around the
table for the breakfast, which we had ordered an hour earlier, in order to make the day as
long as possible. Miss Cassandra, who was the only really cheerful member of the party, reminded
us of the many days of sunshine that we have had in Touraine, adding with her usual practical
optimism, "And thee must remember, my dear, that constant sunshine makes the desert," this
to Lydia, but we all took the wise saying to heart and were quite cheerful by the time we had
finished our breakfast, perhaps also for the more material reason that Walter, through various
gratuities and persuasions, had succeeded in making it of better cheer than the ordinary light
déjeuner. Another pleasing circumstance was the assurance of the chauffeur, who arrived while
we were still in the breakfast room, that the clouds were breaking away and that we should
have sunshine by noon. By the time we had reached Villandry the sun was struggling through
the clouds, and as we approached Chinon, its long line of ancient ruins and the little town
clustered beneath were bathed in sunshine.

Although from several points the old château on the crest of the hill, dominated by the lofty
Tour de l'Horloge, is beautiful and impressive, the best general view of it is from the middle
of the lower bridge, from which we could see the three distinct foundations, the Château of
St. George at the upper or right side, the bridge which connects it with the Tour de l'Horloge,
the Château du Milieu, and finally the Château de Coudray at the extreme lower or left end
of the plateau. The whole is far more ruinous than the other famous castles of Touraine and
requires as much imagination to make it whole and habitable as some of the ruins along the
Rhine. Of the Château of St. George, built by the Plantagenet Kings to protect the one vulnerable
point in a position almost impregnable in its day, nothing is left but parts of the lower wall.
So ruinous, indeed, is this château, that one is almost ready to accept Pantagruel's derivation
of the name of Chinon, or Caino, from Cain, the son of Adam its founder.

We climbed up the hill and rang the bell at the Tour de l'Horloge, which is the only part of
the buildings still boasting a roof, and here the concierge and his family tuck themselves
away somewhere within its high, narrow walls. The bell that we rang is on the outer side of
the tower, and in the course of time a girl, about as big as the old key she carried, unlocked
a door in the archway through which we entered. The level spaces inside between the different
buildings have been laid out as a sort of promenade which is open to the public on Sundays
and holidays. The view up and down the slow, shallow river with its yellow sand-flats, little
green islands, and the softly wooded country beyond seemed to us one of the most charming in
Touraine. The concierge, who was attempting to act as guide to two separate parties at once,
hurried us around in such a bewildering fashion that it would be almost impossible for me to
give the exact locations of the different buildings. What we all remember distinctly is the
bare, roofless hall, of which only a western gable and a vast chimney-piece remain, in which
Joan had her audience with the King. This hall was the throne room, in 1429, when the fearless
Maid appeared at Chinon, having journeyed one hundred and fifty leagues through a country occupied,
in many places, by English and Burgundian troops, in order to deliver her message to the King.
Although the meeting between Charles VII and Joan was by candlelight, even in the garish light
of day it seemed strangely real here in this great ruinous hall. Nearly three hundred knights
were present, and the King is said to have stood a little apart amidst a group of warriors
and courtiers, many of them more richly dressed than himself, with the idea, perhaps, of testing
Joan.

There are various accounts of this audience, but the one that we like best because it seems
the most probable is that Joan knew the King at once, although she had never seen him, and
going straight to him, accosted him humbly and reverently like the poor, little shepherdess
that she was.

Even after these earnest words from Joan, the King, although impressed, was not convinced,
and with some reluctance allowed her to remain at Chinon. We were afterwards shown the lodgings,
which this inhospitable royal host gave to the persistent visitor, in a very thick-walled little
tower, and according to our guide, Joan could get in or out of her room, on an upper floor,
only when her guards put a ladder up to her small window, permanent stairways being considered
unsafe for such guests.

Archie, who read the most recent life of Joan of Arc, on the steamer, as a preparation for
Chinon, reminds us that after much sifting of history and tradition, it has been decided by
learned authorities that the revelation of the Maid, which filled the King with joy, was a
positive assurance that he was the rightful heir to the throne of France and the true son of
his father, Charles VI.

It is not strange that Charles VII should have doubted his own paternity with a mother as unnatural
and depraved as Isabel of Bavaria, and that with a kingdom chiefly in the hands of the English
he should have seriously questioned his right and title to the throne, being himself of a weak
and doubting nature. It is said, that in an hour of great despondency, Charles prayed to God
from the depths of his heart that if he were the true heir of the house of France, and the
kingdom justly his, God would be pleased to help him and defend it for him. This prayer, which
he thought known to God alone, the Maid recalled to the mind of the King, thus giving the sign
and seal of her mission, and by this revelation she not only caused the King to believe in
her, but strengthened his confidence in himself and in his right and title. True to herself
and "the voices," for she never spoke as of her own motion, it was always a superior power
speaking through her, as the mouthpiece.

After some weeks of discussion and delay, Joan's plan for the relief of Orleans was adopted,
troops were gathered together, of which she was given the command, or as she naïvely expressed
it, she was made the "war-chief." Yolande, Queen of Sicily, the young Queen's mother and the
Duc d'Alençon, were her zealous advocates. Yolande gave of her treasures for the relief of
Orleans, and soon at the head of her army, her banner flying, upon which was inscribed the
name of the Prince of Peace, surrounded by the lilies of France and with her troops singing
Veni Creator, the dauntless Maid passed through these gates and Chinon knew her no more.

We know that Joan accomplished in less than a year all that she had promised. The city of Orleans
was relieved, she had led Charles to Rheims to be crowned and had done much toward delivering
France from the English. Then came the sad part of the story, which you know so well. While
we were following the fortunes of the Maid, and here where she had so courageously taken up
what she deemed her heaven-appointed task, feeling more than ever before the cruelty and rank
injustice of her treatment, Lydia exclaimed: "Nothing could prove more forcibly the old saying
about the ingratitude of princes than the King's treatment of Joan!"

A voice behind us echoed, "Nothing," and we turned to see M. La Tour, who had followed us and
entered the hall so quietly that we had not known that he was anywhere within miles of us.
"No," he said, when the first greetings were over, "I am not here to defend my country for
her treatment of the noble and fearless Maid. She did much to regain the territory of France
from the English and to establish the King upon his throne; she came to him in the darkest
hour and inspired him with hope and courage, and yet in the time of her trial he basely deserted
her. No, there is no excuse except that at the King's side there were many men jealous of the
success and military glory of Jeanne, to whisper tales in his ear. He was a weak and vacillating
creature, at the best, ready to follow the last person who talked to him, and he probably believed
some of the stories told him about the good Maid."

"And then," as Archie reminded him, "Joan was given papers to sign which she was not able to
read and thus set her mark to her own death warrant."

"A sad and shameful tale!" exclaimed the young Frenchman, as we passed by the donjon where
Joan had been lodged and by the scanty ruins of the little chapel where she stopped to pray,
and wept because the angels left her.

Just then, as we were passing on to find some traces of the several Angevin kings, who lived
and died at Chinon, something happened which I cannot quite explain. In some way Lydia was
separated from us, as we were passing from one ruinous castle to another. She has not told
me, and indeed there has been little time to have a word with her, but I shall always think
that she was so impressed by the wonderful story, which seems so real here, where Joan saw
the angels and revealed her mission, that Lydia was in a way overwhelmed by the mysterious,
spiritual power of it all, and lingered behind us for the peace and rest of being alone, and
away from all the talk and from that small child, with the big key, who recited her monotonous
tale like a parrot. Then later, in trying to find us, Lydia must have gone off quite a distance
in the wrong direction, and so became confused and lost her way among the ruins. This is only
my explanation. Lydia is writing to you and may give you another. All that I know is that we
heard a sharp, sudden cry and turning we saw the poor dear perched up quite high on the ruins
of a wall, with a steep, precipitous descent between her and ourselves. Miss Cassandra was
scared out of her wits, M. La Tour begged Lydia to be calm, in French and English, with the
most dramatic gestures, while Archie, without a word, sprang up the steep ascent, agile and
surefooted like the good mountain climber that he is, and without more ado picked Lydia up
in his strong arms and bore her down the precipice as if she had been a baby, and she is no
light weight, as you know. All that Lydia said, when she found herself in Miss Cassandra's
embrace, was "I am so ashamed of myself for losing my head. I think I was just a little dizzy,
and I was so afraid of falling from that wall."

"Don't think about it, dear," said Miss Cassandra, "now that you are safe and sound, thanks
to Dr. Vernon."

The good lady was so overjoyed at having her treasure beside her again that she would have
been quite ready to include her deliverer in the warm embrace with which she welcomed Lydia,
nor do I think that Archie would have objected. The situation was somewhat strained, for the
moment, as he had been living at rather high pressure with the Joan of Arc associations when
Lydia's escapade came to cap the climax. Miss Cassandra's eyes were brimming over with tears,
and I was more ready to weep than to laugh, when Walter, as usual, came to the rescue with
his sound common sense, saying to Lydia, whose modesty and reserve were distinctly shocked
by the idea of having made a scene.

"You would never have lost your head up there, Miss Mott, if you had had your luncheon before
you ascended to the heights above," this in Walter's most comforting manner. "We have gone
through a lot of history and emotion on a breakfast that is a good many hours away. Let us
go down to the town and see what they can do for us in the way of luncheon or afternoon tea."

M. La Tour, who had been rather left in the background during the last excitement, now came
forward and offered to conduct us to a nice little hotel for luncheon,--insisting, however,
that we should first go with him to see the part of the castle in which Henry II of England
died, in the midst of the dissensions of his rebellious sons.

"The most pitiful, disgraceful death-bed scene in all history!" exclaimed Miss Cassandra. "I
don't see why we need trouble ourselves about it. Henry was lying half dead, here or somewhere
else near Chinon, when his son Richard, who had joined the French King against him, approached
his father to receive from him the kiss of peace, and such a kiss of peace as it was!--the
dying King muttering under his breath as he gave it, 'May God keep me alive till I have given
you the punishment you deserve!'"

"That was at Colombiers, near Villandry," said M. La Tour, laughing over the Quaker lady's
picture, gruesome as it was. "Henry was too ill to return to Chinon, and so passed the night
at Azay-le-Rideau, or at the Commanderie of the Templars at Ballan. It was there or at Chinon
that his clerk, at his request, read to him the list of the rebellious barons. 'Sire,' said
the man, 'may Jesus Christ help me! The first name that is written here is the name of Count
John, your son.' Then Henry turned his face to the wall, caring no more for himself or the
world, and lay there muttering, 'Shame upon a conquered King!'"

It really seemed to us as if M. La Tour took a certain ghastly satisfaction in telling us of
the unseemly behavior of these English kings and princes who had appropriated, justly or unjustly,
so much of his country's territory. The only human incident in the last hours of the great
King was the devotion of his son Geoffrey, who sat through the hours of the long summer day
fanning away the insects from his father's face, the dying man's head resting upon his shoulder
while a knight supported his feet. The King opening his eyes, recognized his son, blessed him,
and said that he of all his children was the only one that showed any affection for him, and
that if his life was spared he would make him the most powerful prince of them all. This, like
many another death-bed resolution, was not carried out, as Henry died the next day, before
the high altar of the church of St. Melaine, which was within the château, at Chinon.

We did not feel at all sure that we had seen the spot where the King breathed his last; but
it really does not much matter, as Miss Cassandra says, and it is not easy to locate the scene
of remote events among these ruinous buildings.

The trial of the Grand Master of the Knights Templars was held here in one of the halls of
Chinon in 1309, and swift retribution was meted out to the members of the order, more for the
love of gold than for the love of justice, as the Templars had become the bankers of Christendom
and were possessed of vast treasures, which were seized upon forthwith.

A carving in the donjon of Coudray of three kneeling knights, each one bearing a sword and
a shield, is thought to have been carved by the Templars on their prison wall.

As we made our way down the hillside to the town, M. La Tour reminded us of a more cheerful
association connected with Chinon than those upon which we had been dwelling, for here it was
that the historian Philippe de Commines was betrothed. He had been created Prince of Talmont
by Louis XI, who arranged a marriage for him with Hélène de Chambès, daughter of the Lord and
Lady of Montsoreau. This betrothal was attended by the whole court, and Louis heaped honors
and rewards upon his favorite who was made Governor of Chinon. A few years later, after the
death of the King, Commines entered into the involved politics of France, and incurred the
displeasure of Anne de Beaujeu who imprisoned him at Loches; or, as he expressed it in Scripture
phrase, "I ventured on the great ocean, and the waves devoured me." He, however, escaped from
this sea of troubles and gave to the world his valuable history, composed, it is said, in the
hours of his enforced retirement.

"Which is," as Walter says, "a delicate and extremely polite manner of referring to his imprisonment
in one of those infernal iron cages at Loches." (Pray notice that the language is Walter's,
not mine.)

On our way to the café we passed by the statue of Rabelais, and although this was not a market
day, to M. La Tour's infinite regret, there were some booths in the busy little square and
a number of traffickers. The face of the humorist who loved his kind, even if he often made
game of them, looked down upon the gay, chattering, bargain-making crowd in the square beneath
him, with an expression half satirical, half laughing and wholly benevolent.

There is some uncertainty as to the date of the birth of Maître François at Chinon, and he
may or may not have lived in either of the old houses pointed out as his, but he certainly
belonged to this part of the country, and we are grateful to his fellow-townsmen for honoring
him so fittingly.

In the centre of the little square a fountain, surrounded by acacia trees, was playing, and
beyond was the welcome Hôtel de France opening its doors to us. After we had ordered our luncheon,
Walter suddenly remembered the chauffeur, and started to hunt him up and tell him where to
meet us with the automobile, and I joined him for the pleasure of another stroll through the
town. M. La Tour, who accompanied us, again regretted that this was not a market day, when
the peasants come in from the surrounding country, and we could then see just such a noisy
merry crowd as Rabelais described when Couillatris goes to Chinon, which he calls "that noble,
antique city, the first in the world," to buy oxen, cows and sheep, pigs, geese and capons,
dead and alive, and all manner of country produce. An antique city Chinon appeared to us, above
all that we had seen; and to add to this impression we met a number of peasant women and black-eyed
girls with the picturesque lace caps of this province, veiling but not concealing their fine
dark hair.

After a luncheon that more than answered our expectations, we strolled about the old town,
through its narrow winding streets and by the Place Jeanne d'Arc, with its remarkable statue
which represents the Maid riding roughshod over the prostrate bodies of her foes; her horse
has all four feet off the ground, his means of support, a bronze rod as a sort of fifth or
middle leg, being more practical than artistic. "The rider's position in the saddle," as Archie
says, "would turn any circus performer green with envy." An altogether atrocious piece of sculpture
is this, with an element of grotesqueness in its conception quite unworthy of one of the most
serious characters in all history, the Maid to whom, as Carlyle says, "all maidens upon earth
should bend."

Finally, and I must say with some reluctance, we turned our backs upon Chinon and our faces
toward Fontevrault, journeying by much the same route that Henry II was carried on his last
journey, over the bridge that he had built and by the river and the village of Montsoreau.

By the way, M. La Tour showed an amiable desire to accompany us to Angers, and as our touring
car is of hospitable proportions we were glad to have his good company. At Fontevrault, which
has been turned from an abbey into a reformatory for criminals, we were fortunate to have some
one with us to speak to the sentinel, as this seemed to be a day when visitors were not welcomed
here. After some parleying with the officials, M. La Tour gained permission to have us enter
and see all that is left of the fine old church, whose buttresses and roofs we had admired
from a distance. In the little chapel we saw the four Plantagenet statues that still remain,
after the vandals of the French Revolution had broken open the tombs and destroyed all that
they could lay their hands upon. These four statues have been restored and the faces repainted.
Here lies Henry II, robed and sceptred as he was when borne forth from Chinon for burial at
Fontevrault, and Richard Coeur de Lion, both in the middle of the group. To the left is Eleanor
of Guienne, the wife of Henry II. Three of these recumbent figures are of colossal size, hewn
out of the tufa rock and painted. The other statue of smaller size, carved in wood and colored,
represents the English queen, Isabel of Angoulême, one of the most beautiful as well as the
most depraved queens of history; only excelled in wickedness by her French sister of a later
time, Isabel of Bavaria. This earlier Isabel, daughter of Aymar, Count of Angoulême, upon the
day of her betrothal to Hugues de Lusignan, was carried off by John of England, who put away
his wife, Avice, to marry this beautiful, wicked enchantress. After the death of John, Isabel
came back to France to marry her old lover.

As we left Fontevrault and motored down the hill towards the Loire, M. La Tour recalled to
us the ancient glory of this abbey, whose walls now echo to the clank of arms instead of to
the Ave Marias of the gentle sisters. Fontevrault was founded in the eleventh century by Robert
d'Abrissel, a monk, as a place of refuge for a vast and ill-assorted company of men and women
who gathered around him when he was preaching a crusade to Palestine. From this strange beginning
the abbey became one of the most famous in Christendom, as it was richly endowed by kings and
princes, especially by the early English kings who loved this beautiful valley of the Loire.
Many noble and royal ladies presided over Fontevrault, among them, Renée de Bourbon, sister
of Francis I who, while she was Abbess, rebuilt the beautiful cloister which we saw to-day.
Another and later Lady Abbess was Marie Madelaine Gabrielle de Rochechouart, who found time
in the midst of her religious duties to make translations of some of Plato's works. New ideas,
you see, were finding their way into the convent, it being the fashion about that time for
women to be learned, Mary Stuart having led the way by delivering a Latin oration at the Louvre
to the edification of all who heard her. And here came Mary Stuart herself, while Louise de
Bourbon was Lady Abbess, brought hither by her aunt, the Duchess of Guise, to charm and delight
the nuns by her beauty and ready wit. As a religious establishment for men and women, ruled
over solely by a woman, the Abbey of Fontevrault was unique in Christendom.

As we motored along the river bank beyond its low-lying sand marshes and line of small hills,
we noticed tiny black wind-mills spreading out their arms to the breeze, and wreaths of smoke
curling up from the cliffs. Here and there the lowering sun would light up a window pane in
the cliff, as if to remind us that these hillsides are burrowed out by the workers in the vineyards
who make their homes here as in Touraine and in the valley of Vendomois.

"It seems that we are again in the land of the troglodytes," said Walter. "Alfred de Vigny
says these peasants 'in their love for so fair a home have not been willing to lose the least
scrap of its soil, or the least grain of its sand.' I think myself that it is for more practical
and economic reasons that they live underground."

These cliff dwellings continue for nearly eight miles around Saumur, and M. La Tour tells us
that many of them go back to the days of the Roman occupation when they served the conquered
tribes as a last retreat from the invader. Some one has said that every step to the southward
takes us further back in the history of France. Chinon and Fontevrault are not far south of
Tours and Blois, and yet we are far back in history to-day, living with the Angevin kings and
with the cave-dwellers of Gaul.

Even the coiffes of the women are different here from those worn in other places on the Loire,
and in a very distinct way we realize that we have left Touraine and are in Anjou.

In the fields the peasants were gathering in their stores for the winter; the women pass along
the road constantly with their odd panniers upon their backs, full of treasures. Sometimes
they are filled with fruit and vegetables and again it is only grass for the cattle or faggots
for the fire. As we drew near Saumur, grapes filled the hottes to overflowing, for this is
the land of the vine, one of the great grape-growing regions of France.

We are spinning along all too rapidly over these perfect roads, as we long to stop at so many
places, especially at that tiny Venice on the Loire, a republic of fishermen and laborers established
by King René when he was still in power. From its sole palace, the Château de l'Ile d'Or, René's
daughter went forth to be the unhappy Margaret of Anjou, the Red Rose of the House of Lancaster,
during the war of the succession which raged in England for so many years.

M. La Tour tells us there is much to see at Saumur, a very old Hôtel de Ville, a twelfth century
church, and other ancient buildings. This city, once a favorite residence of Angevin princes
and English kings, was in the reign of Henry IV, the headquarters of Protestantism, with DuPlessis-Mornay,
the Pope of the Huguenots, as its governor. All that we had time to see, this afternoon, was
the fortress château, which stands high up on the Quay de Limoges, overlooking the junction
of the Loire and the Thouet. We were warned that if we stopped again we should not reach Angers
until after dark, and so we sped along past many an historic landmark of interest.

XIV

ANGERS

                              LE CHEVAL BLANC, ANGERS, September 13th.

WE were glad to have our first view of Angers by daylight, as the dark slate roofs and the
great black château in the old part of the town, made us understand what Shakespeare meant
when he wrote of "black Angiers." The towns, old and new, had their full share of sunshine
to-day and of a warmth that would have been oppressive had it not been tempered by a fresh
breeze from the River Maine that flows by the château, for here we quitted our Loire, for a
while, a river with a distinct individuality which we have come to love like the face of a
friend. A little below Angers, the Loire and the Maine unite, and in the land lying between
these rivers is the richest agricultural region in all France, its nurseries and kitchen gardens
having made a fortune for this little corner of the world.

The town of Angers, which is a place of some consequence, being the capital of the Département
de Maine et Loire, is situated upon a height crowned by the slim spires of the Cathedral of
St. Maurice. On a first view, we must admit that Angers is disappointingly modern, with its
straight, wide boulevards and regular rows of trees; but to-day we have spent most of our time
in the old town which has not been despoiled of its ancient charm. And here in this inn, the
Cheval Blanc, which has opened its hospitable doors since 1514, we live in an atmosphere of
antiquity surrounded by modern comforts. The Rue St. Aubin, upon which our hostel is situated,
is so narrow that Lydia says she is tempted to shake hands with the little dressmaker who is
sewing away busily at a window across the street, and she doubtless hears everything that we
say, and looks politely interested in our remarks although she probably cannot understand a
word of English. As we see her there, looking up from her sewing, from time to time, neat and
dainty, her black hair dressed to perfection, a pathetic expression in the dark eyes with which
she regards us from time to time, we think of Marie Claire, and wonder if this little seamstress
has not a story of her own to tell, and one which like the story of that other sewing girl,
would touch the heart because of its perfect simplicity.

This hotel is so unpretentious, in its style and furnishings, that we are more than surprised
at its comfort. Miss Cassandra says that she has never in her life seen floors scrubbed to
such immaculate whiteness, and we know that Quakers know all about cleanliness. The service
which the men chambermaids give us is exceptionally good and quite discouraging to Miss Cassandra
and myself who have always persistently upheld the superiority of our sex. It is like my uncle's
bachelor housekeeping, a little too good to be gratifying to our woman's pride. Everything
runs so smoothly here, like magic, under these ministering angels of the male sex, in their
white shirts, red waistcoats and green aprons. We really don't know what to call them, although
the one who attends to my room informed me quite frankly that he was the femme de chambre.
This was, I think, in order to avoid confusion with regard to fees; the double service of waiter
and valet de chambre entitling him to a particularly generous douceur.

One expects good meals in all of these French inns, and at the Cheval Blanc they are as good
as the best and served in a cool, quiet dining-room, between the front courtyard with its palms
and pleasant lounging places and the rear court, around which are the kitchens, the garage
and the offices generally. Good as we find the cuisine, what most delights us is the fruit.
We have been in great fruit-growing countries before, as at Canterbury, where we had no evidence
of the excellence and profusion of the fruit on the table d'hôte; but here each meal is crowned
with a great dish of plums, peaches, grapes and pears. Beautiful and delicious as they all
are, the pears are supreme, as the Italians say, in size and flavor. We are feasting upon fat
things in this land of plenty, as we have seen nothing to compare with the fruit of Angiers
in Touraine or elsewhere. M. La Tour made no mistake when he conducted us to the Cheval Blanc,
where he himself was received with warm friendliness as well as with great respect by the proprietor.
Shining in his reflected light, we are treated as if we belonged to the royal family, or to
the President's family, which is the popular thing in the France of to-day. In view of our
French friend's many kind attentions and charming good nature, Archie has overcome his racial
prejudices sufficiently to say:

"Zelphine, that French friend of yours is really no end of a good fellow."

"Why my friend?" I ask. "M. La Tour is the friend of us all. Walter is devoted to him, and
he is Lydia's 'Handy Book of Reference,' as you know." This last was distinctly cruel; but
Archie, instead of retaliating, answered quite amiably:

"Yes, he is a good fellow, with no superior foreign airs about him."

Walter says that it is only fair that Archie should admit this much of his rival, after carrying
Lydia off under his very eyes at Chinon, which, he says, is prophetic of coming events. I must
confess that I do not feel as sure of the outcome as Walter. Lydia is the most self-contained
young person that I have ever encountered.

By the way, we decided, after our arrival yesterday, that we could not possibly do justice
to Angers in the short half day that we had allowed ourselves. We telegraphed to Angela that
we really could not meet her in Paris until Wednesday night. Even if the Dudleys leave to-day,
she will have only one night by herself, and with her usual good luck she will probably meet
some friends in the hotel.

Again we echo the sentiments of Maître François, and saying "There is nothing so dear and precious
as time," rejoice in this one long, golden day in Angers. I am writing after our second déjeuner.
We have all spent the morning in the most strenuous sightseeing, going to the cathedral first,
which is quite near, its apse blocking the street on which the Cheval Blanc stands. From the
west front of the cathedral, which is very narrow in proportion to its height, the ground suddenly
descends to the river, a long, broad flight of steps taking the place of a street. There are,
on the façade, some fine carvings of armed warriors; but the side walls are flat and plain,
solid masonry replacing the flying buttresses which lighten most of the French churches. This
last feature we find to be characteristic of Angevin churches, as are two other characteristics
which impressed us as we entered the cathedral. One of these is the absence of aisles in the
nave, and a consequent sense of light and spaciousness; the other, the small dome-like roof
into which the vaulting of each section of the nave rises. There are some curious old tapestries
hung on the walls of the nave, a handsome carved pulpit and some fine glass of the twelfth
and thirteenth centuries. In the chapel to the left is a Calvary by David d'Angers, a sculptor
not without honor in his native town. The chief object of interest in the cathedral is the
tomb of King René and his wife, which was discovered beneath the choir only about fifteen years
ago.

On our way to the château, on a broad open space at the intersection of two boulevards and
in the midst of a treeless expanse, stands a statue of the mild, poetic sovereign of Anjou
by David d'Angers. This bronze statue is on a high, light-colored stone foundation, and shows
him no more kingly and rather less amiable than history, which has always surrounded René d'Anjou
with the sympathetic charm that belongs to a king in exile. Around the base of the monument
are smaller statues representing such founders and leaders of his house as Dumnacus, defender
of the Angevins, Foulques Nera, Robert the Strong and Henry Plantagenet. Here also are statues
of René's two wives, Isabelle de Lorraine and Jeanne de Laval, and of his daughter Margaret,
Queen of England. This monument naturally carried our thoughts back to the days when the valor
of Anjou's counts, and their connection with the thrones of England and Sicily, gave this land
an importance far beyond its natural value.

King René himself, with his three titles, Count of Anjou, King of Sicily and Duke of Provence,
seems to have been born to misfortune as the sparks fly upward. Had he been endowed with the
spirit and courage of his daughter Margaret, René might have been able to cope with his enemies;
but being of a gentle and reflective nature, he yielded to what he deemed his fate. One possession
after another was wrested from him, and he finally retired to Aix in Provence, where he devoted
himself to literature and the fine arts, or, as Miss Cassandra expresses it, "He amused himself
by writing verses and pottering about his garden. And a very much more respectable way of spending
his time, it was, than quarreling with his neighbors, which was the chief occupation of Louis
XI and most of the other kings of that period!"

We afterwards saw the noble statue of Margaret of Anjou, a regal figure, wearing the crown
and bearing the sceptre of which she was so soon deprived by Edward IV. When she went to England,
as the bride of Henry VI, she was received with rejoicings and the London streets were decorated
with the Marguerite flower in her honor. No man, it was said, surpassed Margaret in courage,
and no woman in beauty, and it might well be added that none of the princesses who had left
France to share the British throne had to endure such misfortunes. Her son was captured and
slaughtered under her eyes; then and then only, the strong purpose and high courage, that had
supported her during years of adversity, deserted her. She lost heart. After being dragged
from prison to prison, Margaret was restored to her country and her family, upon which King
René, being more of a poet than a king, wrote a madrigal to celebrate his daughter's sad homecoming.

The castle, which is across the way from René's statue, dates back to the twelfth century,
when English and French were disputing over the ownership of Anjou. Standing on a hillside
above the Maine, this château, with its massive stone walls and heavy drawbridge, suggests
brute force more completely than any of the other castles that we have seen. As we passed through
the dungeons at Loches, we shuddered at the cruelty which they represent; as we looked at the
bare black walls of this castle, we were even more appalled by the dread relentless strength
against which enemy after enemy battered himself in vain.

The castle was built on the hill, as it sloped up from the Maine, and originally stood at the
lower corner of the city ramparts. Broad quays have taken the place of the outer fortifications
on the river bank, and most of the moat has been filled in to make boulevards, but between
the quay and the river front of the castle a crumbling mass of crazy old houses still cluster
around the castle, as if to remind us of the days when the thick walls behind them meant safety.
The seventeen round towers and the battlements have all been torn down, leaving only the slate-built
walls, striped near the top with horizontal panels of a lighter stone, and still so high that
they look like precipices. We entered by a heavy drawbridge and under a massive arch, and were
duly shown around by the guide, a man this time, whom we found far less interesting than the
women who have conducted us through most of the other châteaux. He did, however, give us some
interesting associations with the Château of Angers, as he reminded us that Henry IV was here
in 1598 with la belle Gabrielle, and their little son, "Cæsar Monsieur." Henry seems to have
come to Angers to reduce Brittany to subjection, and to punish the rebellious Duke de Mercoeur.
The latter, however, by a fine stroke of policy, sent his wife and her mother to Angers to
make his submission to the King and to propose an alliance between his daughter, who was his
sole heiress, and the little Cæsar. An interview with Henry took place here, in the château,
we were told. With two noble dames in tears, on their knees before him, and his own fair duchess
quite on their side, the King could refuse nothing, and accordingly his son, aged four, was
betrothed to Françoise de Lorraine, who was in her sixth year and with no less magnificence
than if the little Cæsar had been the legitimate heir to the throne of France. Dancing and
rejoicing took the place of the fighting and bloodshed to which the old castle had been much
more accustomed.

We are glad to turn from the stormy revengeful counts of Anjou and kings of England to the
reign of Henry of Navarre, that heroic figure whom we still love whatever his shortcomings
may have been. His faults and failings were those of his time; his virtues, his sense of justice,
his large benevolence and desire to give every man a chance, and his broad constructive policy,
were far in advance of his age. He doubtless inherited his noble traits from his mother, Jeanne
D'Albert, while from the less distinguished paternal side may have come the traits that marred
the character of the great Huguenot leader.

Miss Cassandra can never quite forgive Henry for his abjuration, and says that to have renounced
the religion for which they had both sacrificed so much was unworthy the son of so great a
mother. Member of the Peace Society as she is, our Quaker lady will make no excuses for Henry,
although M. La Tour insists it was a wise and humane act on the part of the King, as it put
an end to the long war that was devastating France, or, to use Henry's own forcible phrasing,
"By my faith, I have no wish to reign over a kingdom of dead men." The favorite expletive of
the Béarnois, "Ventre Saint Gris," seems to have gone out of favor after he became a Catholic,
having fallen into bad repute, as it was considered a Protestant oath. There is little doubt
that the traditions of his early years had great influence over him, and that Henry of Navarre
was always at heart a Protestant.

Gabrielle d'Estrées, to whom Henry IV was far more devoted and more faithful than to any other
woman, had almost unbounded influence over him, which she generally used with wisdom and moderation.
Affectionate, intelligent, and good tempered, she seemed an ideal companion for the generous,
impetuous and often ill-governed monarch. Henry was himself wont to say that he loved her far
more for her noble qualities of mind and heart than for her dazzling beauty. That the King
consulted Gabrielle upon more than one occasion is evident, and equally so that she did not
hesitate to express her opinion frankly. After the King's famous speech at the Abbey of St.
Ouen, when he besought his noble subjects to counsel him and generously invited them to share
with him whatever glory should fall to his share, Gabrielle, then Marquise de Monceaux, was
present, secluded from the general gaze by a screen or curtain. Later, when questioned by Henry
as to how she liked his speech, she replied that she had rarely heard him speak better; but
that she was indeed surprised at his asking for counsel and offering to place himself en tutelle
in the hands of the assembly.

"Ventre Saint Gris!" exclaimed the Béarnois, "That is true; but as I understand it, in tutelage,
with my sword by my side."

Gabrielle's womanly pride was doubtless satisfied with this quick-witted rejoinder of her royal
lover, who never seemed to be at a loss for an argument or a bon mot. As Dumas says of his
beloved hero, "In default of money, something to which the Béarnois was accustomed all his
life, he was in the habit of paying his debts with that which he never stood in need of borrowing,
a ready wit."

The only influence that the great minister Sully feared was that of Gabrielle, whom the King
had promised to marry when the tie that bound him to his beautiful, wilful, dissolute cousin,
Marguerite of Valois, should be annulled by the Pope. Sully, however, had other ambitions for
Henry and for France, as he was already entering into negotiations with the Médici with a view
to a marriage with a daughter of their house, which would swell the depleted coffers of France
and bring some coveted territory to the kingdom.

Here in the old château at Angers, the scene of Gabrielle's most signal triumph over the favorite
minister, during whose absence her son was created Duke of Vendôme and affianced to the little
heiress of the Duke of Mercoeur, we could not help wondering whether Henry of Navarre's life
would not have been very different had he been allowed to marry the woman of his choice. As
the daughter of the Baron d'Estrées, and connected with royalty through the Courtenays, it
seemed to us that Gabrielle was quite as suitable a consort for the French King as one of the
daughters of the Médici who had never brought good fortune to France. Sully, who evidently
thought more of the coffers of the kingdom than of the happiness of the King, was the persistent
enemy of Gabrielle from the early days when Henry incurred untold dangers in passing the enemy's
lines in order to secure a brief half hour with her, to a later time when as Duchesse de Beaufort
she seemed to be perilously near the throne. The tragedy of her sudden death, which has been
attributed to poison at the instance of Sully, and the King's agony of grief have added a pathetic
interest to the history of Gabrielle d'Estrées, Duchesse de Beaufort.

It should be said, in justice to Sully, that there is no proof that he had anything whatever
to do with the death of the Duchesse de Beaufort; but there is little doubt that the tidings
of her death brought relief to his mind, after the first shock was over.

The Château of Angers is bare and unadorned, with nothing to remind us of the ceremonies and
festivities that so annoyed Sully in the far away time when Henry of Navarre and the charming
Gabrielle held high festival here. After its days of fighting and feasting were well over,
the castle was used as a prison. Now, with the thrift for which the French are proverbial,
this substantial building is used as a depot for military stores. The only things suggestive
of the gentler side of life are the little chapel, and the castle within the castle, a small
Renaissance house in which the family of the prince lived in times of siege. The walk around
the top of the walls is well worth taking, not only because it intensifies the impression of
size and strength, but also because it gives a charming view of the country round about. In
front the Maine flows calmly by to its junction with the Loire three or four miles to the left;
across the river there is an old suburb of the town with a few good churches and old houses,
and farther upstream near the river's edge, stands what Walter calls "a business-like looking
old tower" which he thinks must have guarded a bridge connected with the ramparts. To the right
the cathedral looms up, its clumsy base hidden by other buildings and its slender spires dominating
the town. Beyond the town stretch rich, green fields, with an occasional old windmill flapping
its arms and a slow boat drifting lazily down the river.

Even if Angers has never been one of the most important cities of France, it seems always to
have been a place of moderate consequence, as it still is. There are a few good private houses
dating several centuries back, the most pretentious of these being the Hôtel de Pincé, a charming
Renaissance building, standing in the heart of the town and now used as a museum of antiquities
and objets d'art. There was no guide to tell us the history of this house and the books are
equally reticent about its traditions. The Hôtel de Pincé looks like a charming miniature château,
suggesting Azay-le-Rideau or some of the Renaissance houses in Tours, in its general style,
and like them it makes one feel that the builders of those days understood elegance and beauty
better than they did comfort and ease. Whatever king or noble or knight-at-arms lived in this
house, his women-folk had to drag their brocaded trains up and down steep twisting stone staircases,
and also to be content with very little light and air in many of their elegant rooms. The rich
Angevin bourgeoisie built these half-timbered houses, which are somewhat like those that one
sees so often in Normandy. One of the most elaborate of these is the so-called Maison d'Adam,
just behind the cathedral, which, although it does not date back to our first ancestor, is
sufficiently ancient in appearance to satisfy our antiquarian tastes. Much of the carving on
the uprights is elaborate and effective, even if bearing evidences of frequent restorations.
The most noticeable thing about this building is its height, as houses of six stories were
not usual in the days of the Renaissance in France.

So little is done for Angers by local guide books that the joy of discovery adds a zest to
our pleasure in this old town, and, although Archie is usually the least enthusiastic of sightseers,
he has never been bored once to-day. Perhaps Lydia's presence and delight in it all has something
to do with his contented frame of mind. However that may be, he has listened with polite attention
to M. La Tour's long disquisitions, architectural as well as historical, and in return has
asked him many questions about the products and industries of this prosperous town. It seems
that the extensive slate quarries have not only roofed and housed a great part of Angers, but
have added considerably to its revenue. Archie is in a merry mood to-day and after M. La Tour's
disquisition upon these extensive slate quarries, he asked Lydia if she did not think that
King René must have missed his slate when he was scribbling verses in the south. We all laughed
heartily over this very slight bon mot; but our Frenchman looked dreadfully puzzled and asked
to have it explained to him. He proved even more difficult than Sydney Smith's Scotchman; or,
as Walter expresses it, "It had to be driven in with a sledge hammer," and he warns Archie
solemnly to attempt no more pleasantries in the presence of our Gallo-American, guide, philosopher
and friend.

On our way back to the Cheval Blanc, we stopped at the Préfecture whose superbly carved arches
and columns are said to date back to the Roman occupation. While we were enjoying these noble
arches and rich carvings, M. La Tour told us that Julius Cæsar and one hundred thousand of
his troops were encamped upon the triangle upon a part of which Angers is now situated. Here
they lived for months on the resources of this somewhat restricted area, which does not seem
at all wonderful if the soil was cultivated in those days as it is now; and how those soldiers
must have enjoyed the rich vintage of Anjou!--to say nothing of the choux-fleurs, artichokes,
peas, and the various fruits which are now shipped in carloads to Paris every night.

The idea of a Roman camp in the neighborhood of Angers appealed strongly to our antiquarians,
and while we were at luncheon Archie, after politely inquiring what we proposed to do with
our long afternoon, and finding that we had no plans except to visit some place of interest
in the motor car, presented a well arranged programme. What Archie suggested, evidently after
collusion with Walter and the chauffeur, was to motor to Nantes, stopping en route at the Roman
camp, if indeed its site can be found.

Lydia and I would have shouted for joy had there not been other guests in the salle à manger.
As it was we contented ourselves with congratulating Archie upon his fertility of resource,
adding that we had been longing to see Nantes, with its fortress-château and the tomb of François,
the father of our old friend, Anne de Bretagne.

Upon this Miss Cassandra waked up from a little nap she had been taking between courses, and
expressed her delight at the thought of seeing Nantes in whose ancient château her favorite
Anne was married to Louis XII. "Not," she added, "that I approve of that marriage, it is the
one sad blot upon Anne's otherwise fine character that she was willing to marry Louis after
he had divorced poor Jeanne."

"I must warn you, before we set forth," said Archie, raising his finger admonishingly, "that
this is to be an afternoon in the open; the chauffeur tells me that we shall have barely time
to see the surroundings of Nantes, to get a general view of the town, and return to Angers
in time for a late dinner."

"Of course we shall stop at the Roman camp," said Lydia, tactfully, looking at Archie as she
spoke. "It would never do to miss that, and I plead for twenty minutes or a half hour at the
cathedral to see the tomb of François, and the gold box in which the heart of the Duchess Anne
was sent back to Brittany."

"You shall have your half hour at the cathedral, Miss Mott," said Archie gallantly, "even if
we don't get home 'till morning."

"'Till daylight doth appear," sang Walter as he went out to tell the chauffeur to be ready
for an early start.

M. La Tour looked his surprise, he had never seen us in quite so merry a mood. There is something
exhilarating in the air here, which is crisp and fresh, almost like that of October at home,
and we were further stimulated by the thought of doing something as unexpected as it was delightful.

We set forth promptly, a gay party, the three women folk upon the back seat, M. La Tour and
Archie vis à vis, and Walter with the chauffeur in front. A nice intelligent young fellow is
this chauffeur, with whom Walter has become so intimate that he seems to be able to converse
with him without any apparent language. His name is François and Walter has, in some way, fathomed
the secrets of his soul and tells us that he is the fiancé of the pretty black eyed Eloisa
who showed us around the château of Langeais. The confidence came about in this wise, François
asked us if we had seen Langeais, a very noble château, and did the little gardienne, the pretty,
dark-eyed one, take us about? Yes! that is the one he knows, they both belong to the country
around Tours, than which there is nothing finer in the known world. Although living at Blois,
for financial reasons, he hopes to go back to that garden spot of France and there to end his
days. After which Walter, by means of gestures and signs, extracted the story of his love.
We did not feel it incumbent upon us to reveal to François the sad fact that Eloisa was flirting
quite openly with one of the red-legged upholders of the military glory of France, when we
saw her at Langeais.

"That was doubtless an innocent diversion to which she resorted, in order to pass away the
time during her lover's absence," Archie remarked, with a fine touch of sarcasm in his tone,
for at this moment Lydia, who is wearing some forget-me-nots that were beside her plate this
morning, is having a very animated conversation with M. La Tour.

Lydia is very charming in a blue linen suit, the tang of salt in the air, which is quite evident
here, has given her a brilliant color, and every stray lock of her golden brown hair has curled
up into bewildering little ringlets. I don't wonder that Archie resents the forget-me-nots.
"Where the deuce does the fellow get them?" he asked me this morning. "François and I have
been looking all about the town before breakfast and we can't even find a bunch of pansies."

Pansies would be a good offset to forget-me-nots; but as only sweet peas and roses were to
be found, Archie scorned to bestow these which grow in such abundance, and so contented himself
with a beautiful basket of fruit which we all enjoyed.

I need not tell you, after our experience with Roman camps, that there was little to be seen
upon the site of this one of Angers; but we were interested in the glimpse that we had, in
passing through Ancenis, of its ancient château with its tower-flanked doorway, the work of
an Angevin architect. Within this château, M. La Tour tells us, an important treaty was signed
by François II of Brittany and Louis XI.

As we drew near Nantes the strong salt air blowing in our faces made us realize that we were
near the sea. Nantes and St. Nazaire, which is a little north and west of Nantes, are among
the great sea ports of the world. And here we find ourselves again in the Dumas country, for
it was along the part of the Loire that we have seen to-day that Fouquet fled pursued relentlessly
by Colbert. If only Fouquet could have reached Nantes and his own Belle Ile, out beyond St.
Nazaire, a different fate might have been his. We follow again in imagination, with almost
breathless interest, that close pursuit, of one boat by the other, until we suddenly find ourselves
winding through the streets of a town and know that we are in Queen Anne's city of Nantes,
that also of the monk Abelard and of the famous warrior surnamed "Bras de Fer."

Gazing upon the redoubtable Château of Nantes with its six towers, its bastions and its wide
and deep moat, into which the sea poured its rising tide twice each day, we could understand
Henri Quatre saying, as he stood before it, "Ventre Saint Gris! the Dukes of Brittany were
not men to be trifled with!" It was into the dungeon of this château that Fouquet was first
thrown, and here Mazarin had Henri de Gondi imprisoned, and from whence, as M. La Tour tells
us, he escaped over the side of the Bastion de Mercoeur, by means of a rope smuggled into the
prison by his friends. There are no end of interesting associations connected with Nantes,
of which not the least important is that Henry of Navarre here signed the Edict of Nantes,
the Huguenot charter of liberties.

We needed a full day here, but remembering our promise, we did not even ask whether the château
was open to visitors, which was really very good behavior on our part. We turned our faces
toward the Cathedral of St. Pierre, and spent there our half hour, no more, no less. Here over
the sculptured figure of its patron saint are some lines, in old French, which tell us that
this building dates back to the year 1434. The chief treasure of the cathedral is the beautiful
tomb of François II, and his wife Marguerite de Foix, the father and mother of the little Duchess
Anne, on which the ermine tails are in full feather, if we may so express it, and also the
hound and the lion which are symbols of this ancient house. The tomb, which is one of the masterpieces
of that good artist, Michel Colombe, was brought here from the old Église des Carmes which
was pillaged and burned during the Revolution.

Although we reached Angers only in time for a very late dinner, we were inclined to wander
again to-night. I don't know just how it came about; Archie was out on the terrace smoking,
and when Lydia appeared at the door he threw away his cigar and joined her. As they walked
off together, Lydia turned back and said, in her sweet, demure way:

"Dr. Vernon is taking me to see the ruins of the Abbey of Toussaint by moonlight. Why don't
you and Mr. Leonard come too?"

"Oh! no, we don't spoil sport; do we, Zelphine?" said Walter, "and it seems to me, dear, if
my memory does not fail me, that moonlight upon ruins has brought good luck to your matchmaking
schemes before this. Do you remember how Angela and the Doctor trotted off to see the ruins
at Exeter by moonlight?"

"Yes, of course, how could I forget that evening? Poor dear Angela will be thinking of us and
missing us to-night."

"Well, she will only have this one night to miss us and this day in Angers has been worth so
much to us."

"We have had many delightful days on this trip; but this has been one of the most perfect.
Why do many of the people, who do the châteaux so conscientiously, skip Angers?"

"I hope that many may continue to skip it," said Walter, "tourists and trippers would ruin
this lovely old place and turn this comfortable, homelike Cheval Blanc into a great noisy caravansary.
And now that the lov--I mean, now that your brother and Lydia have had a good start of us,
let us go to see the ruins of the old Abbey, Zelphine," and then with a mischievous twinkle
in his eye:

"Don't you think that Miss Cassandra and M. La Tour could be persuaded to pair off and go with us?"

Miss Cassandra was just then sleeping sweetly in her chair; she does not confess to any fatigue
after our long motor trip, but she must be very tired, and M. La Tour is engaged with some
friends from Paris. Much as we like him, and indeed no one could help liking him,--for this
one evening we are content to dispense with his kind attentions.

The ruins of the Abbey of Toussaint must be interesting at any time, reminding us of those
of Nettley and Jumiéges, with their exquisite carved arches and windows all overgrown and draped
with vines and shrubbery, but by moonlight, like fair Melrose, they take upon them an added
charm. We lingered long before the lovely carved window, through which the moonlight streamed
in silvery radiance; but we saw nothing of Archie and Lydia. They had probably gone to take
a last look at the Castle of Angers by the light of the moon, and when they returned to the
Cheval Blanc Miss Cassandra and I had gone upstairs, feeling that we had indeed had a full
day, and that the wanderers would probably be quite as happy without us.

XV

ORLEANS AND ITS MAID

                                              ORLEANS, September 14th.

WE set forth early this morning, as we had a long day before us, and as Walter warned us, little
time to loiter by the way, great as the temptation might be to stop en route.

I don't know that anything has happened, but the atmosphere seems somewhat electric, and if
anything has occurred I am quite sure that it is of a cheerful nature, as there is a telltale
light in Archie's eyes that seems to say when they meet mine: "I have been sworn to secrecy,
find out if you can!" Lydia's face is inscrutable; but her color is a little brighter than
usual and she seems to avoid meeting my gaze, and drops her eyelids in a way that she has when
the sun is bright. Then, she is beside me and consequently I cannot see her face as I can Archie's.
Our places have been changed in the auto; Lydia and Archie are vis à vis this morning and M.
La Tour is opposite to me, but this may be quite accidental.

After Walter's solemn warning about the shortness of time, I was afraid to suggest stopping
anywhere; but Lydia had told me that she intended, if possible, to see the Château de Morains,
near Saumur, where Margaret of Anjou died. She made her request with some hesitation.

"Of course we can stop," said Walter, "it won't take long, if François knows the way."

François did not know the way to the historic shrine, which is evidently neglected by English
and American pilgrims; but by making inquiries he found it without much trouble. We saw the
outside of the little château and what interested us especially, the inscription over the gateway
which relates that this Manoir of Vignole-Souzay, formerly Dampierre, was the refuge of the
heroine of the War of the Roses, Marguerite of Anjou and Lancaster, Queen of England, the most
unfortunate of queens, wives and mothers, who died here the 25th of April, 1482, aged fifty-three
years. This little French tablet in memory of the English Queen, who was received with such
rejoicings in England upon her marriage with Henry VI, seemed to us most pathetic.

As a return for this stop at Morains, which Walter considered a particular concession to the
women of the party, he suggested that we take time to stop at Villandry to see a Druid stone
which M. La Tour has been telling him about. You may remember that he and Archie are somewhat
insane upon the subject of Druidical remains, but I notice that Archie is not as keenly interested
in the Druids, this morning, as usual. He and Lydia are talking over some places that they
mean to see in or near Paris. Archie has been reading a description of Fouquet's Château of
Vaux-le-Vicomte, which is only an hour's ride from Paris, near Melun. Wise in his day and generation
is this brother of mine, for nothing could so appeal to Lydia's historic soul as just such
an expedition as this! This was the château at which the great financier entertained the King
with such magnificence that he aroused the jealousy of his royal master. You remember Dumas's
description of it, and La Fontaine's Songe de Vaux, in which he says that everything conspired
for the pleasure of the King, music, fountains, Molière's plays, in which he was praised,--even
the moon and the stars seemed to shine for him, on those nights at Vaux.

"And the fruits of the earth, and of the greenhouses yielded up their treasures for him," said
M. La Tour. "In his old age Louis was wont to say that no peaches were equal to those of Vaux-le-Vicomte
in flavor and quality."

"I am quite sure that he had never tasted those of Anjou!" exclaimed Walter, and at this most
opportune moment François produced a basket of these same Anjou peaches, and some pears also,
all surrounded by green leaves, as only the French know how to set them forth. We feasted on
the fat things of the earth, as we made our way to Villandry, where we saw the ancient monument
of the Druids, which was not much to see after all. Walter, however, takes a solid satisfaction
in visiting the things that he feels it is his duty to see. The same sort of a rainbow illuminates
his horizon after a duty of this sort is performed, that irradiates our path when you and I
have accomplished a series of perfunctory visits, and yet he tells Lydia and me that we take
our sightseeing quite too seriously.

M. La Tour has been telling us about the elaborate New Year's ceremonies once held at Chartres,
by the Druids. The mistletoe was cut by the eubage, with a golden faucelle, or sickle, belonging
to one of the Druidesses and then distributed to the people. The eubage was, it appears, a
combination of priest and bard whose pleasing task it was to cut the throats of the human victims
offered upon the Druidical altar of sacrifice. This distribution of the mistletoe at the beginning
of the year may have led to our later use of the mistletoe in the Christmas holiday festivals.
Walter says that he does not know about this, nor does M. La Tour; but they intend to look
it up and communicate the result one to the other. From this conversation you will naturally
infer that we are again in the land of the mistletoe.

In the meadows we noticed a delicate little mauve-colored flower, something like an orchid,
which François told me was a crocus, blooming for the second time this season, and in the gardens
of the little gray houses, with their red-tiled roofs, and by the roadside were gorgeous asters
of all shades of purple. In the less cultivated places, heather blooms luxuriantly and yellow
gorse which attracted Miss Cassandra's trained botanist's eye, and she suddenly quoted the
old Scotch saw, with about the same appropriateness as some of the remarks of "Mr. F's Aunt"
in Bleak House: "'When gorse is out of season, kissing is out of fashion,'" and looking straight
at Archie, she added encouragingly "you see it is still blooming."

It would be impossible to accuse Miss Cassandra of flirtatious intent, and yet at her glance
and words Archie blushed a beautiful scarlet. I tried not to look at him, as I knew that he
was inwardly swearing at the thinness of his skin, or whatever it is that makes people blush.
I couldn't see Lydia without turning around and staring at her; but Walter, who enjoyed the
whole scene from his coign of vantage beside François, told me afterwards that "Lydia never
turned a hair, and so you see, Zelphine," he said, laughing gaily, "it all rests between Miss
Cassandra and Archie."

Seeing in the distance the curious, enigmatical Pile de Cinq Mars, we suddenly realized that
we were quite near Luynes, and Walter told François to stop there as he knew that Archie would
be charmed with the beauty of the situation of this château which hangs high, like an eagle's
nest, upon a bluff above the lowlands and the river. While we were walking around and about
the château, we suddenly came upon Mr. and Mrs. Otis Skinner standing at the entrance to a
little smithy, quite near the rock-hewn steps that lead up to the château. We have seen so
few Americans, and no friends or acquaintances since we left Tours, and now, as we are again
approaching the old town, to meet these good friends was a great pleasure. Mr. Skinner took
us into the smithy, which is so charmingly situated, and we wondered again, as at Cheverny,
why even a blacksmith's workshop is so much more picturesque here than in England or America.
While Mr. Skinner was standing talking to the blacksmith, Lydia and Archie and Mrs. Skinner
managed to get snapshots of the forge. If it is satisfactory, I will send you a photograph,
as we intend to exchange pictures and you shall have the very best.

After this encounter, we sped along on our way toward Tours, wondering whether Mr. Skinner
was collecting material, atmosphere, etc., for a French play. We are glad that our way lay
through Tours and that Archie could have even a fleeting glimpse of the old capital. To motor
across the great bridge and along the wide Rue Nationale, and to have another look at St. Gatien,
with its two beautiful towers, and at those other towers of Charlemagne and de l'Horloge was
a joy, even if there was not time to stop over at Tours for an hour.

At Blois we gathered up our luggage, left the automobile and took the train for Orleans. We
parted from our François with much regret, as we have come to like his honest, frank face and
his pleasant French ways. Walter and Archie, I am quite sure, gave him a generous remembrance,
Archie especially being quite in sympathy with his dreams of love in a Touraine cottage. We
all wished him happiness, not without some misgivings on my part, I must admit, lest his Eloisa
of the bright eyes should play him false for the charms of some one of those red-legged soldiers,
who seem to possess an irresistible charm for French women, who are always ready to sing "J'aime
le militaire."

From Blois to Orleans is a railroad journey of a little over an hour, through a fertile, but
a rather monotonous country abounding in fields of turnips. From the quantities of this vegetable
raised here, we naturally conclude that the peasants of this part of France subsist chiefly
upon turnips, as the Irish do upon potatoes. We passed through many gray villages, which tone
in with the shades of the silver poplars, and this with certain gray atmospheric effects in
the landscape makes us realize how true to life are the delicate gray-green canvases of many
of the French artists.

The Orleans station, like that of Tours, is a delusion and a snare, as we were suddenly landed
at Les Aubrais, one of the outskirts of the old city and from thence had to make our way to
Orleans as best we could. We had fortunately been able to send our small luggage directly through
to Paris by putting it in the consigne, and paying ten centimes on each article. This convenient
and economical device, which with all our travel we had never discovered, was revealed to us
by the two charming Connecticut ladies whom we met at Amboise. Walter calls down blessings
upon the pretty heads of these two wise New England women whenever we make a stop over between
trains; and Miss Cassandra ejaculates: "It takes a Yankee, my dears, to find out the best way
to do everything on the top of the earth!"

Having only ourselves to dispose of, we soon found an omnibus which conveyed us to the Place
du Martroi, the soul and centre of the ancient city of Orleans, where is fitly placed an equestrian
statue of Jeanne d'Arc, by Foyatier. This statue does not, however, happily suggest the Maid,
as the peasant girl of Domremy is here represented with a fine Greek profile, and, as Archie
noticed, with his keen horseman's eye, the charger upon which she is mounted is a race-horse
and not a war-horse. It is, however, a noble and dignified memorial, on the whole, in which
it differs from the grotesque affair at Chinon, and Dubray's low reliefs on the sides of the
pedestal, representing important scenes in the life of the Maid, are beautiful and impressive.

Here in Orleans, the scene of Joan's first and most remarkable success, we live more completely
in the life and spirit of that wonderful period than at Chinon. The marvel of it all impressed
us more forcibly than ever before. That this peasant girl, young and ignorant of the art of
war, by the power of her sublime faith in her heaven-sent mission and in herself as the divinely
appointed one, should have wrested this city from the English, seems nothing short of the miracle
that she and her soldiers believed it to be. Even that hard-headed and cold-hearted sovereign,
Louis XI, was so overawed by the story of Joan's victories that he marked with tablets the
little room at Domremy where she was born, and also the convent of Sainte Catherine de Fierbois,
where she was received and where she found her sword with the five crosses.

We knew that the Place du Martroi was not the scene of Joan's martyrdom, and yet this wide,
noble square, with her monument in the centre, from which diverge so many streets associated
with her history, stood for infinitely more to us than anything we had seen at Rouen, the actual
place of her martyrdom.

From the square, M. La Tour conducted us to the cathedral, which has been criticized by Victor
Hugo and many others, and which we, perhaps from pure perversity, found much more harmonious
than we had expected. The façade, which the local guidebook pronounces majestic, even if bâtarde
in style, is rich in decoration, and the little columns on the towers I thought graceful and
beautiful, however bâtarde they may be. Two cathedrals have stood upon the site of the present
Sainte Croix, the last having been destroyed by the Huguenots, to whom are attributed the same
sort of destruction that marked the course of Oliver Cromwell's army in England. It is said
that the great Protestant leader, Théodore de Bèze, himself blew up the four noble pillars
that once supported the belfry. However this may be, and Miss Cassandra says that we are all
free to believe such tales or not, as we choose, very little is left of the old edifice except
the eleven chapels and the side walls. Even if Théodore de Bèze destroyed the old cathedral,
the building as it now stands was the work of his former chief, for it was Henry of Navarre
who laid the corner stone of the new edifice, in 1601, to fulfill a vow made to Pope Clement
VIII who had absolved him from the ban of excommunication.

In the side windows, in richly colored glass, is the story of the Maid of Orleans, from the
day when she heard the voices and a vision appeared to her while she kept her father's sheep
in the fields near Domremy, to the hour when she and her troops gave thanks for the victory
of Orleans in this cathedral. On through the eventful months of her life to the sad and shameful
scenes at Rouen, where the innocent and devoted Maid was burned at the stake, while France
which she had delivered, and Charles whom she had crowned, made no sign, the story is told
in a series of pictures. Even if of modern glass and workmanship, these windows seemed to us
most beautiful, especially those on the right-hand side through which the light streamed red,
yellow and blue from the jewelled panes. The window representing the crowning of Charles VII
at Rheims is especially rich in color. Joan, with a rapt ecstatic expression on her face, is
here to see her King crowned and with her is the banner that she loved even more than her mystic
sword. Below are inscribed her own simple words, "It has been with him in the suffering, it
is right that it should be with him in the glory." Ever self-effacing, it was of her beloved
banner that Joan was thinking, never of herself.

The whole wonderful story is written upon these windows so plainly that any child may read
it. We have been thinking of Christine and Lisa, and wishing that they were here to read it
with us. They will learn of Joan of Arc in their histories, but it will never be so real to
them as it is here where her great work was done, and where she is so honored. Some day we
promise ourselves the pleasure of bringing the children here and going with them through all
the Joan of Arc country. M. La Tour, who has made the journey, says that, as the Joan of Arc
cult is increasing all the time, every spot associated with her is marked and everything most
carefully preserved.

"Most interesting of all," he says, "is the little church where Jeanne worshipped. Although
badly restored by Louis XVIII, the nave remains intact, and the pavement is just as it was
when the bare feet of Jeanne trod its stones, in ecstatic humility, during the long trance
of devotion when she felt that supernatural beings were about her and unmistakable voices were
bidding her to do what maid had never dreamed of doing before. In a little chapel, beside the
main edifice, is the stone fount where the infant Jeanne was baptized. Fastened to the wall
there hangs a remnant of the iron balustrade, that Jeanne's hands must have rested on during
the hours that she passed in rhapsody, seeing what never was seen on land or sea. A few steps
from the church stands the cot where the maid was born, almost as humbly as the Christ Child.
Entering through the small doorway, you see the room in which Jeanne first opened her eyes
to the light. On one side stands the 'dresser,' or wardrobe, built half way into the wall,
where the housewife stored the family belongings. Beside this is the iron arm which held the
lamp, used during midnight watches. Beyond this general room is the alcove that served Jeanne
as a sleeping-room. In this narrow chamber, more like a cell than a sleeping-room, Jeanne heard
'voices,' and dreamed her dreams."

M. La Tour's description is so interesting that we all long to follow in his footsteps and
in those of the Maid, from the clump of oak trees--of which one still stands--and the "Fountain
of the Voices" to the ruins of the Château of Vaucouleurs, where the chivalrous Robert de Baudricourt,
impressed by the girl's serene confidence, gave her a letter for the King, who was at Chinon,
as we know.

The Porte de France is still standing, M. La Tour tells us, through which the shepherd maid,
with her four men-at-arms and her brother Jean, embarked on her perilous journey of eleven
days across a country filled with roaming bands of British and Burgundian soldiers. The places
are all marked, Saint-Urbain, Auxerre, Gien, Sainte Catherine de Fierbois, where Jeanne was
received in the "aumonerie" of the convent, now transformed into a Mayor's office. When we
come to Orleans with the children, we must try to be here on the 8th of May, when the whole
city is en fête celebrating the glorious victory of the Maid. Still talking over the projected
Joan of Arc pilgrimage, M. La Tour led us by the Rue Jeanne d'Arc which faces the cathedral
and to the Maison de l'Annonciade where Jacques Boucher, treasurer of the Duke of Orleans,
received the Maid. In the court of this building, now used as a Dominican convent, is a small
statue of Joan, above the well. This house is also called the Maison de Jeanne d'Arc, and in
a charming Renaissance building, near by, is a collection of relics of the Maid. For some unknown
reason this house is sometimes spoken of as the house of Agnes Sorel; and with about the same
authority another house at the corner of the streets, Charles-Sanglier and Des Albanais, is
called the Maison de Diane de Poitiers. This latter mansion, with its small towers and richly
ornamented façade, is now an historical museum and is better known as the Hôtel Cabu.

By the Rue Royale, which suddenly changes its name and becomes the Rue de la Republique after
it crosses the Place du Martroi, we made our way to the Hôtel du Ville, a handsome sixteenth
century building of brick and stone. On a tablet upon the façade is a long inscription telling
how many kings, queens and notable personages have stopped here; but what interested us much
more is a statuette in bronze of Joan, the work of the Princess Marie d'Orléans, daughter of
Louis Philippe. The modest, devout little maid, represented by this statue, is more like the
real Joan, to our thinking, than most of the more pretentious monuments.

In the Salle des Marriages of the Hôtel du Ville, we came suddenly upon souvenirs of a much
later period than that of Joan, for here, in this room, Francis II died. He and Mary came here
from Chenonceaux, and becoming violently ill from a malady in his ear which had tortured him
for some time, the poor young king took to his bed never to rise again. His mother followed
him here, and at Mary's instance the great surgeon Ambrose Paré was summoned. He wished to
operate; the young Queen had full confidence in his judgment and skill, but Catherine resolutely
opposed the use of the surgeon's knife, and poor Francis lingered a few days in great pain,
and finally died in the arms of his wife. There is a painting in the Salle des Marriages of
this sad scene; Mary is kneeling by the bedside of her husband and Catherine is seated nearby,
her face cold and expressionless. It has been intimated that Catherine opposed Ambrose Paré
because she wished to have poor Francis removed to make way for a son whom she could control
and bend to her will; but with all her wickedness, it is impossible to believe in such a motive.
One may, however, understand her ignorant horror of the use of the knife, and the superstitious
terror that haunted her in view of the recent revelations of Ruggieri at Chaumont.

"I think it is quite evident what was amiss with King Francis!" exclaimed Miss Cassandra. "He
was suffering from mastoiditis, of course, and Ambrose Paré was clever enough to find it out,
and might have saved his life if he had been allowed to have his way. I have no patience with
Catherine, and she knew what she was about when she set up her opinion against that of a great
surgeon."

Archie says that to diagnose a case at a distance of several hundred miles requires considerable
skill; but still greater is the insight into obscure maladies of our Quaker lady, who bridges
over the centuries and tells us just what disease afflicted Francis II in the year of grace
1560; and he added quite seriously:

"You may be quite correct in your surmise, Miss West. Your niece and I will hunt up Ambrose
Paré's diary when we get to Paris, and see what he says about the case. If you are right, I'll
take you into my office as a partner."

After a somewhat strenuous morning of sightseeing and a sumptuous regale at the Hôtel St. Aignan,
whose name pleased us on account of its Dumas flavor, we climbed up to a lovely terrace garden
from which we could overlook the town and the cathedral, to which distance certainly lends
enchantment. In this pleasant resting place I am writing to you, dear Margaret, while we wait
for a late train to Paris. M. La Tour expects his auto to meet us and convey us to the station
and then to take him to his home. We shall miss him, as his kind attentions and vast fund of
information have added much to the pleasure of our sojourn in Château Land. To-day he has managed
our time so judiciously that we have seen everything of importance in Orleans without being
hurried, and we now have this quiet hour on the hillside garden before setting forth upon our
journey. He evidently has no idea of what is happening in our midst, and is as attentive as
ever to Lydia, talking to her and walking with her, whenever Archie gives him a chance; and
who can blame him? I have never seen Lydia more charming than she is to-day; but the soft light
that shines in her eyes is not for the young Frenchman, I am sure. Walter says:

"If La Tour had his wits about him he would see what is going on under his nose; it takes a
sledge hammer to drive in some other things beside a joke."

Here comes the auto, and in five minutes we shall be en route for Paris.

XVI

A CHÂTEAU FÊTE

                                                 PARIS, September 16th.

WE found Angela eagerly awaiting us when we reached our destination, and I must admit still
more eagerly awaiting another arrival, as Mr. McIvor was expected by a train due here later
than ours. Since she had been with his Scotch and English relatives, Angela insists upon having
her fiancé called Mr. McIvor, as that is the custom in his own country. She, however, much
prefers our calling him by his own delightful Scotch name, Ian, and we like him well enough
to fall in with her desires. Ian arrived in due time, and our party is now complete.

"How fortunate it is that the hour was in our favor instead of the Doctor's," exclaimed Walter;
for according to French etiquette to have left Angela here unchaperoned with her lover in the
same city, even if not in the same hotel, would have shocked all ideas of propriety. "I fancy
that M. La Tour, good fellow as he is, couldn't understand our leaving Angela here by herself
even for a single night."

"No," I said, "and I didn't think it necessary to tell him."

"Queer notions these people have! As if Angela didn't know how to take care of herself!"

No one knows better, and I told Walter how Angela managed in London. She reached there in the
afternoon, instead of in the morning as she had expected. Something about the automobile had
given out and they had finally to take a train from York. When she reached the hotel where
she was to meet the Dudleys, she found a note telling her to follow them to Southampton as
they were obliged to take the night boat. Angela immediately looked up trains and finding that
the next train would be one hour too late for the boat, what do you think she did? She telegraphed
to the Captain to wait for her! Did you ever hear of anything so delicious? Walter calls it
a piece of American effrontery, but I call it quickwitted, don't you? Of course the Captain
could not keep his boat waiting for any person of less distinction than the Queen; but by good
luck (Angela is always lucky) the vessel was late in sailing that evening. The Dudleys, who
were anxiously waiting for her on deck, saw her coming, just as the sailors were about to take
up the gang-plank, and begged the Captain for a moment's delay. Of course Angela looked charmingly
pretty as she tripped up the incline; and she never realized that her little telegram could
be taken otherwise than seriously until she heard the Captain say to the first officer, as
she stepped on deck: "She was worth waiting for, after all." At this the child was so overcome
with confusion that she did not know which way to look, and evidently did not recover her self-possession
during the crossing. Walter insists that she is still blushing over her own daring. If she
is, it is vastly becoming to her, as I have never seen Angela look more brilliantly beautiful.

We are living in an atmosphere so charged with romance, that it would be positively dangerous
for two unmated beings to join our party at this time. Miss Cassandra pays Archie and myself
the compliment of appearing to be radiantly happy over Lydia's engagement, although I know
that she drops a tear in secret over M. La Tour and his château. I tell her that this is not
an entirely safe environment for her, especially as one of her old time suitors is in Paris;
he met us at Morgan's this morning and has been dancing attendance on Miss Cassandra this evening,
which last, Walter says, is a very disrespectful way to speak of the decorous call of a dignified
Quaker gentleman.

However that may be, Miss Cassandra laughed gaily at my serious warning, and with a flash of
her bright blue eyes dismissed her quondam suitor and my solicitude in one brief sentence:

"Thee is very flattering, my dear, and I admit that Jonah is an excellent person; but he is
quite too slow for me!"

"That may be; very few people are quick enough for you, dear Miss Cassandra; but you must acknowledge
that Mr. Passmore was not at all slow about calling upon you to-night."

It is really too bad to tease our Quaker lady; but she takes it all so literally and is so
charmingly good-humored withal that it is a temptation not easy to resist.

We are making the most of our few days in Paris, as we leave here early next week. Lydia announced
at breakfast that she felt it her duty, and she hoped that we should feel it to be ours to
make a pilgrimage to St. Denis this afternoon.

"After enjoying ourselves in the châteaux of the Kings and Queens of France, it is," she says,
"the very least that we can do to go to St. Denis and see them decently and honorably buried."

Miss Cassandra quite agreed with Lydia, and Archie, although he says that it is a ghoulish
sort of expedition, would go anywhere with her, of course.

It is rather odd that none of us have ever been to St. Denis, not even Ian McIvor who lived
in Paris for months while he was studying medicine. We set forth this afternoon in truly democratic
fashion on top of a tram, on one of the double-deckers that they have over here, to Angela's
great delight. A rather lively party we were, I must admit, despite the sobriety of our errand.

There was nothing that especially interested us in the prosperous manufacturing town of St.
Denis, and we went directly to the basilica, which with the mingling of the Romanesque and
Gothic in its architecture is much more beautiful than we had expected. It is sufficiently
ancient to satisfy our antiquarian taste, as the site of the original abbey dates back to 275,
having been erected over the remains of St. Dionysius or St. Denis. The present edifice owes
its existence to the Abbé Suger who reigned here in the days of Saint Louis. There have been
many restorations, of course, and some very bad ones as late as the reign of Napoleon Bonaparte.
In this basilica the Emperor Napoleon was married to the Archduchess Marie Louise and, what
is more interesting to us, here Joan of Arc hung up her arms, in 1429. It is wonderful to see
the monuments to royalties as far back in French history as Queen Frédégonde and King Dagobert,
who founded an abbey here as early as 638. The tomb of Dagobert is a most remarkable and realistic
representation of the King's soul leaving his body and its reception in heaven; the means of
transportation is a boat with oarsmen, both going and coming, if I may so express it, that
is the soul of Dagobert goes forth upon the unknown sea in a boat, and in another carving on
the tomb he is welcomed to the shores of heaven, still in a boat. It is very interesting, as
there is a poetic as well as a realistic side to the strange conception. Near Dagobert's monument
some one had left a visiting card, after the curious French fashion.

"It seemed so very late in the day to be calling upon King Dagobert," as Walter remarked.

After this ancient mausoleum, that of Louis and Anne de Bretagne seemed quite modern, and very
handsome, much in the style of the Visconti monument at the Certosa near Pavia. Not far from
this tomb we came upon that of Henry II and Catherine de Médicis, in which they are represented
in that gruesome fashion so frequent in English cathedral tombs,--the nude figures below, while
above in a beautiful chapel, with marble columns and pillars, there are handsome bronze figures
of the King and Queen devoutly kneeling. Very inappropriately at the four corners are placed
bronze figures of Faith, Hope, Charity and Good Works. Catherine is said to have planned this
mausoleum herself, and, strange to relate, in the choir we found another monument to the same
King and Queen.

"Just like the grasping creature to want two tombs!" exclaimed Miss Cassandra. "Most people
are satisfied with one."

It appears that in her old age Catherine disapproved of the nude figures on the first monument,
and had this one made with two decently robed effigies, in marble, resting upon a bronze couch.

We went down into the crypt, all of us except Angela, who still has an aversion to underground
resorts. Ian went with us; but after a hurried glance at the most important tombs he made his
way back to the sunshine and to Angela. The rest of the party went through everything quite
resolutely, although we found this ancient crypt of the good Abbé Suger even more gruesome
than most crypts. The guide directed us to a tiny window, through which we could see the place
where poor Marie Antoinette and Louis XVI were finally buried, at least all that could be found
of their remains. Here a light was burning, which they told us was never allowed to go out.
In strange contrast to this solemn little chapel, there is a kneeling figure of the Queen on
one side of the crypt in a ball dress with jewels around her neck. This statue, by Petitot,
although strangely inappropriate in costume, is beautiful in expression, and in the modelling
of the face, arms, and hands, the latter being very lovely.

Here also is a "Caveau Impérial," constructed by the order of Napoleon III, as the burial place
of his dynasty. This tomb is quite untenanted, of course, as no Bonapartes lie at St. Denis;
although the bones of the Valois, Orleans and Bourbon families, who have come and gone in France,
probably forever, are royally entombed here, from their early sovereigns down to Louis XVIII.

I tell you all this because I think you have not been to St. Denis, and we found it so much
more interesting than we had expected. Walter and Archie made their acknowledgments to Lydia,
in due form, and indeed we should never have made this pilgrimage had she not been enterprising
enough to lead us forth toward St. Denis and its royal tombs.

                                                       September 17th.

Madame La Tour and her son made a formal call upon us yesterday. M. La Tour had already dropped
in, in his friendly way, to inquire after our comfort and to offer his services, as a guide
to anything that we might wish to see. As Madame had announced her coming we were at home to
receive her. She is pretty and graceful, a charming combination of the American and French
woman. We all fell in love with her. M. La Tour is frankly proud of his mother and was anxious
that we should meet her. He has evidently not yet grasped the situation of affairs, although
during the visit, which was brief if somewhat embarrassing, I could see nothing but the sapphire
that sparkled upon Lydia's finger. Madame La Tour very cordially invited Lydia to go to the
opera with her, and M. La Tour was evidently much disappointed when she declined in consequence
of another engagement.

"Lydia never said a truer word in her life!" exclaimed Walter, after the visitors had departed;
"but La Tour is very stupid not to know what sort of an engagement it is that she has on her
hands."

Upon which I suggested that Walter should mention the engagement to M. La Tour, quite casually,
in the course of conversation.

"Why not tell him yourself, Zelphine? You are so much more adroit at that sort of thing."

"It is really becoming embarrassing. Some flowers came last night, forget-me-nots again, to
Archie's amusement. Now if Lydia had been anything but just ordinarily nice and pleasant to
him, as she is to everyone, it would be different."

"Well, and even if she had been more than ordinarily nice to La Tour why do you trouble yourself
about it, Zelphine? It is something that only concerns Lydia and La Tour, and Archie perhaps
in a way, but we really have nothing to do with it."

Thus, manlike, does Walter push aside all part and lot in the affaires du coeur of his fellow-travellers;
but I have just had a brilliant and beautiful idea, which I intend to communicate to Archie
at once. We were all talking en route of the Château of Vaux-le-Vicomte.

As this is a land where people make a fête upon every occasion, Archie shall give a breakfast
at Melun or some place near the château, and invite us all, and the La Tours also, an engagement
party. I have no doubt the French have some charming name for this sort of an entertainment,
which we can find out. I shall write you later of the success of my plan.

                                                       September 18th.

Of course Archie was delighted with my suggestion, as he and Lydia have been promising themselves
the pleasure of an excursion to Vaux-le-Vicomte which seems to go by the name of Vaux-Praslin
at the present time. Archie and Walter did the very kindest and most friendly thing, which
in the end proved to be the most advantageous to themselves. They took M. La Tour into their
confidence and consulted with him as to how the little excursion should be made and where the
breakfast should be given. Naturally the poor boy was very much surprised, and quite downhearted
when he found out what event was to be celebrated, and we did not see him for two whole days,
not until this evening, when he called and offered his congratulations to Lydia in pretty French
phrases.

Angela is charmed with M. La Tour and his manners, and says that she does not see how Lydia
could possibly resist his fascinations; this with a mischievous glance at Archie, who, serene
and confident in his own happiness, replies that Lydia is probably making the mistake of her
life in turning away from the young Frenchman and his château.

But Lydia knows that she is making no mistake and takes all this jesting in good part; but
she insists that the little celebration shall be called a château fête, as Vaux-le-Vicomte
is our objective point. This is in much better taste, and, after all, we don't know the French
name for an engagement fête.

"We certainly don't want to ask La Tour to inform our ignorance," as Walter says. "It would
be like requiring the man who is down on his luck to name the happy day. It is quite better
taste, and, after all, we don't know the occasion."

Miss Cassandra and Walter and I went to the American church this morning because we like the
simple service there, and the rest of the party went to the Russian Church to hear the music,
which was very good to-day. The afternoon we all spent at Versailles, where we were so fortunate
as to see the fountains play. Nothing, not even the châteaux of the Loire, gives us so realizing
a sense of the gayety and splendor of the life of the French court, in the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries, as this vast palace of pleasure when the gardens bask in sunshine and
the fountains are playing. We recalled Madame de Sévigné's spirited description of the court
and royal family setting forth upon some pleasure party, herself among them, tucked in snugly
in the same carosse with her favorite, Duchesse de La Vallière, or Madame de Montespan of the
many ringlets, for whom she cares nothing,--these two ladies in close quarters although cordially
hating each other. The Queen is in another carosse with her children, and the King, being a
free lance, drives in the coach with the royal favorites or rides beside it as his fancy dictates.

Our fête is to be on Tuesday, and M. La Tour came to the hotel this evening with a well arranged
plan. He really is a dear, and having plenty of spirit and a certain kind of pride that seems
to belong to well-bred French people, he has no idea of wearing his heart upon his sleeve,
even for the love of Lydia. His suggestions are most practical and sensible, and his advice
to Archie is to go to Fontainebleu first and have a walk through the forest, breakfast at one
of the hotels there, and motor to Vaux-le-Vicomte, by way of Melun, in the afternoon. It all
sounds perfectly delightful, and I have secured a copy of the Vicomte de Bragelonne, at Brentano's,
in order to read over again his account of Fouquet's reception of the King at Vaux.

We shall be glad to see Fontainebleau again. Since we have seen the châteaux of the Loire,
all of these palaces near Paris are most interesting to us, as they make us realize, as we
have never done before, what a great pleasure park much of France was under the Valois and
the Bourbons. If the forest of Chambord was vast with its many acres, so also was that of Fontainebleau
with its 42,500 acres. Palaces of pleasure, all of these châteaux were intended to be, as were
Chenonceaux, Azay le Rideau, Blois and Chambord, although many of them are stained by dark
and bloody crimes. Passing through the gardens and park of Versailles to-day we forgot the
terrible scenes that were enacted there in 1793, until the guide pointed out to us the Queen's
apartments, and showed us the little room from which Marie Antoinette fled for safety to the
King's rooms, on that October night of horror, when the Parisian mob swept down upon the palace.

                                                       September 20th.

Our day in the open was a brilliant success. Archie had a large automobile, or perhaps I should
say a touring car, large enough to hold us all. Madame La Tour declined, and so we have our
château party, with the pleasant addition of Angela and Ian, who naturally entered with great
spirit into the celebration. We had all the time we needed at Fontainebleau, entering by the
old Cour du Cheval Blanc, but avoiding the interior of the palace, as we had all been here
before, some of us several times, and spending all our time in the gardens and forest which
are ever new and always beautiful. We looked for the quincunx near which Louise de La Vallière
and her companions were hiding when the king and St. Aignan overheard their girlish confidences,
but not finding anything answering to Dumas's description we had to content ourselves with
a labyrinth which M. La Tour thinks should answer quite as well. At the end of it is the huge
grape-vine, called the King's Vine, which reminded us of the vine at Hampton Court, and like
it is said to produce an enormous crop of grapes.

Archie's breakfast was delightful, an al fresco entertainment under a spreading horse-chestnut
tree in the garden of a hotel at Fontainebleau. The table was beautifully decorated with flowers
and fruit, and the menu, which was suggested by M. La Tour, was the sort to tempt one's appetite
on a warm day like this, for it is summer here and much like our September weather at home.

Walter complimented M. La Tour so heartily upon his good taste that he laughingly reminded
Walter of our first acquaintance at the Bon Laboreur, and asked him if he still had a poor
opinion of the French cuisine. "Not when you have anything to do with the ordering, my dear
fellow!" was the response. "Perhaps my taste needed to be cultivated, for I have come to like
some of your French dishes very much, and as for your wines, my taste did not need to be cultivated
to like them; I took to them quite naturally." There were toasts, speeches and good wishes,
Angela and Ian coming in for their full share. Altogether something to be remembered was that
luncheon under the chestnut tree, and near the great forest of Fontainebleau, one of the many
pleasant things to be stored up in our memories in connection with our days in Château Land.

This motor trip, to Vaux-le-Vicomte, which seemed so short to us, was evidently quite an affair
to Louis XIV and his court, as, according to Dumas, there was some talk of stopping at Melun
over night. As we know, large bodies move slowly, and the royal party must have been sufficiently
cumbersome, with the heavy coaches of the King, of the two Queens, Anne of Austria and Maria
Teresa, and the several coaches of their maids of honor, to say nothing of the outriders, the
Swiss Guards and the Musketeers with our friend D'Artagnan at their head. A small army was
this, that passed over the road that we travel to-day, lighting up the gray-green landscape
with all colors of the rainbow.

At the Château of Vaux-le-Vicomte, of which we had only expected to see the outside, M. La
Tour had a surprise for us, as he had managed, in some way, to secure tickets of admission.
We mounted the great steps, entered the vast vestibule and passed through the salons in which
are beautiful paintings by Mignard and the two Le Bruns. As we wandered through these rooms,
richly furnished and hung with old tapestries, and into the rotunda, capped by its great dome,
we wondered in which of these rooms Molière's play had been given.

The performance of Les Fâcheux, written especially for the occasion, was the crowning glory
of the King's visit to Vaux. We learned that it was not given in any of these rooms, but in
the garden, in the starlight. When the guests were seated, Molière appeared, and with well
counterfeited surprise at seeing the King, apologized for having no players with him and no
play to give. At this juncture, there arose from the waters of a fountain nearby, a nymph in
a shell, who gracefully explained that she had come from her home beneath the water to behold
the greatest monarch that the world had ever seen.

We can well believe that a play, set in this flattering key, was calculated to please the King,
who was praised all through at the expense of his courtiers, who were les fâcheux, the bores.
After this rare bit of adulation Molière's fortune was made.

For the host, Fouquet, who had gathered so much here to give the King pleasure, a far different
fate was reserved. The sumptuous entertainment, the show of wealth on all sides, aroused bitter
jealousy in the King's heart, and when some designing person (Colbert, it is said) whispered
in his ear that Fouquet, not content with outshining his sovereign in the magnificence of his
château, had raised his eyes to the royal favorite, Louise de La Vallière, the King's wrath
knew no bounds. He was eager to have Fouquet arrested, while he was still accepting his hospitality.

One of the finest passages in Dumas's description of the fête at Vaux-le-Vicomte is that in
which Colbert tries to inflame his royal master's jealousy, while the usually timid and gentle
Louise de La Vallière urges the King to control his wrath, reminding him that he is the guest
of M. Fouquet and would dishonor himself by arresting him under such circumstances.

"He is my King and my master," said La Vallière, turning to Fouquet; "I am the humblest of
his servants.

These words, from the woman whom he loved, influenced Louis, and for the time he relinquished
his design; but eighteen days after the great festival at Vaux, M. Fouquet was arrested, near
Nantes as we know, and ended his days in prison. This magnificent château, which the architect
Le Vau, the artist Le Brun, and the landscape gardener Le Nôtre had conspired to make so beautiful,
is still, in a way, a monument to the great financier, although it has passed from his family
into the hands of the Duke de Praslin.

Unlike many of the châteaux, Vaux-le-Vicomte is still the home of people who love its beautiful
lawns and parterres and keep them green and blooming. Armies of gardeners trim the hedges,
plant the borders, and remove every stray leaf from the gravel paths. Here we saw the perfection
of French gardening.

As we motored home by the light of the stars, we felt that this, our last day in Château Land,
was one of the happiest that we had known. We would like to stay longer in Paris and visit
the many châteaux within motoring distance of the capital; but our holiday time is nearly over.
Walter starts for Lausanne to-night, to gather up the children and bring them to London, whither
we all go to-morrow. We shall have a few days there, and as many more in Oxford, where Walter
has some engagements with old friends, and then to Southampton and home. We all sail October
first, all except Ian McIvor, who comes over in December for a very important event. You and
Allen must come some time, and visit with us the châteaux that we have seen, and see the others
that we have not yet visited. For to-night, au revoir. Life has many joys, and not the least
among them is to see the beautiful places of the earth, in congenial company, such as yours,
dear Margaret.

                                              Yours always devoted,
                                                            ZELPHINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Photographs were moved so that they did not interrupt paragraphs.

Page 32, "apearance" changed to "appearance" (gala appearance, as if)

Page 35, "apears" changed to "appears" (lake side appears like)

Page 38, "apears" changed to "appears" (as it appears from the)

Page 61, "näive" changed to "naïve" (with naïve inconsistency)

Page 77, "Hotel" changed to "Hôtel" (at the Hôtel de)

Page 83, "Clôitre" changed to "Cloître" (the Cloître de la Psallette)

Page 87, "Clôitre de la Psalette" changed to "Cloître de la Psallette" (lovely Cloître de la
Psallette)

Page 99, "impresion" changed to "impression" (an impression of power)

Page 101, "näively" changed to "naïvely" (guide naïvely remarked)

Page 107, "Medici" changed to "Médici" (de Médici whom he beheld)

Page 142, "Medici" changed to "Médici" (Médici, like Minerva)