There is another Query connected with this subject, which I beg to submit. Some ancient frescoes
were lately discovered in the chapel of Eton College, with a compartment containing (according
to a letter in the Ecclesiologist) a bishop administering the Holy Communion to a converted
Jew, through a low window. Can any one, from recollection or the inspection of drawings, (for
the original has disappeared,) assure me that he does not hold in his hand a piece of money,
or a portion of bread, for the supply of his bodily wants?

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

North Sides of Churchyards unconsecrated.--In the West of England I have found an opinion to
prevail in rural parishes, that the north side of our churchyards was left unconsecrated very
commonly, in order that the youth of the village might have the use of it as a playground.
And, in one parish, some few years ago, I had occasion to interrupt the game of football in
a churchyard on the "revel" Sunday, and again on another festival. I also found some reluctance
in the people to have their friends buried north of the church.

Is there any ground for believing that our churchyards were ever thus consecrated on the south
side of the church to the exclusion of the north?

J. SANSOM.

Hatfield--Consecration of Chapel there.--Le Neve, in his Lives of Protestant Bishops (ii. 144.),
states, that Richard Neile, Bishop of Lincoln, went to Hatfield, 6th May, 1615, to consecrate
the chapel in the house there lately built by Robert, Earl of Salisbury. I have applied to
the Registrar of Lincoln diocese, in which Hatfield was (until recently) locally situated,
for a copy of the notarial act of consecration; but it appears that the register of Bishop
Neile was taken away or destroyed in the Great Rebellion, and that, consequently, no record
of his episcopality now exists at Lincoln.

Le Neve says he had the most part of his account of Bishop Neile from Thomas Baker, B.D. of
St. John's College, Cambridge, who had it from a grandson of the Bishop's. He quotes also Featley's
MS. Collections.

Can any of your readers inform me whether Bishop Neile's episcopal register for Lincoln is
in existence, or whether any transcript of it is known? or if any evidence, confirmatory of
Le Neve's statement of the fact and date of the consecration of the chapel of Hatfield, is
known to exist?

WILLIAM H. COPE.

P.S. I have examined Dr. Matthew Hutton's transcripts of the Lincoln registers, in the Harleian
MSS., but they do not come down to within a century of Bishop Neile's episcopate.

Ulrich von Hutten (Vol. i., p. 336.).--In one of the Quarterly Reviews is an account of Ulrich
von Hutten and the Epistolæ Obscurorum Virorum. Will S. W. S., or any one who takes interest
in Ulrich, tell me where it is? A meagre article in the Retrospective Review, vol. v. p. 56.,
mentions only one edition of the Epstolæ, Francfurti ad Mainum, 1643. Is there any recent edition
with notes? Mine, Lond. 1710, is without, and remarkable only for its dedication to Isaac Bickerstaffe,
Esq., and the curious mistake which Isaac made when he acknowledged it in The Tatler, of supposing
the letters genuine. Is it known to what {56} scholar we are indebted for so neat an edition
of a book then so little known in England, and so little in accordance with English taste at
that time?

H. B. C.

University Club, May 29.

Simon of Ghent.--Can any of your correspondents give me any information concerning Simon, Bishop
of Salisbury in 1297-1315, further than what is said of him in Godwini de Præsulibus Angliæ,
and in Wanley's Catalogue, where he is mentioned as the author of Regulæ Sanctimonialium Ordinis
Sti Jacobi? Why is he called "Gandavensis," or "De Gandavo," seeing that he is said to have
been born in London?

J. MORTON.

