Herennianus, daintily handling and brandishing his lance, in the manner prescribed at the schools,
where skill in all warlike arts is taught, and having drawn all eyes upon him, at length let
it fly, when, notwithstanding so much preparatory flourish, it fell short of the staff upon
which the shield was reared.

'Just from the tables,' said the prince, as he withdrew, angry at his so conspicuous failure;
'and how can one reach what he can scarcely see?'

'Our arm has not yet recovered from its late injury,' said Timolaus, as he selected his weapon;
'yet will we venture a throw.' His lance reached the mast, but dropped feebly at his foot.
Vabalathus, saying nothing, and putting all his strength in requisition, drove his weapon into
the staff, where it stood quivering a moment, and fell to the ground.

Carias, Seleucus, Otho, Gabrayas, noblemen of Palmyra, now successively tried their fortune,
and all showed themselves well trained to the use of the weapon, by each fixing his lance in
the body of the shield, and in the near neighborhood of the central hole.

Zabdas now suddenly springing from his seat, which he had taken among those who apparently
declined to join in the sport, seized a lance from the hands of the slave who bore them, and
hurling it with the force of a tempest, the weapon, hissing along the air, struck the butt
near the centre; but the wood of which it was made, unused to such violence, shivered and crumbled
under the blow. Without a word, and without an emotion, so far as the face was its index, the
Egyptian returned to his seat. It seemed as if he had done the whole in his sleep. It is actual
war alone that can rouse the energies of Zabdas.

Zenobia, who had stood leaning upon her lance, next advanced to the trial. Knowing her admirable
skill at all manly exercises, I looked with certainty to see her surpass those who had already
essayed their powers. Nor was I disappointed. With a wonderful grace she quickly threw herself
into the appointed position, and with but a moment's preparation, and as if it cost her but
a slight effort, sent her lance, with unerring aim and incredible swiftness, through the hole.
Yet was not the feat a perfect one. For, in passing through the aperture, the weapon not having
been driven with quite sufficient force, did not preserve its level, so that the end grazed
the shield, and the lance then consequently taking an oblique direction, plunged downward and
buried its head in the turf.

'Now, Fausta,' said the Queen, 'must you finish what I have but begun. Let us now see your
weapon sweep on till its force shall be evenly spent.'

'When Zenobia fails,' said Fausta, 'there must be some evil influence abroad that shall cripple
the powers of others yet more. However, let me try; for I have promised to prove to our Roman
friend that the women, of Palmyra know the use of arms not less than the men.'

So saying, she chose her lance, and with little ceremony, and almost before our eyes could
trace her movements, the weapon had flown, and passing through, as it seemed, the very centre
of the perforated space, swept on till its force died away in the distance, and it fell gracefully
to the ground.

A burst of applause arose from the surrounding groups.

'I knew,' said Zenobia, 'that I could trust the fame, of the women of Palmyra to you. At the
harp, the needle, or the lance, our Fausta has no equal; unless,' turning herself round, 'in
my own Julia. Now we will see what your arm can do.'

Standing near the lances, I selected one eminent for its smoothness and polish, and placed
it in her hand.

With a form of so much less apparent vigor than either Zenobia or Fausta, so truly Syrian in
a certain soft languor that spreads itself over her, whether at rest or in motion, it was amazing
to see with what easy strength she held and balanced the heavy weapon. Every movement showed
that there lay concealed within her ample power for this and every manly exercise, should she
please to put it forth.

'At the schools,' said the princess, 'Fausta and I went on ever with equal steps. Her advantage
lies in being at all times mistress of her power. My arm is often treacherous, through failure
of the heart.'

It was not difficult to see the truth of what she said, in her varying color, and the slightly
agitated lance.

But addressing herself to the sport, and with but one instant's pause, the lance flew toward
the shield, and entering the opening, but not with a perfect direction, it passed not through,
but hung there by the head.

'Princess,' said Zabdas, springing from his repose with more than wonted energy, 'that lance
was chosen, as I saw, by a Roman. Try once more with one that I shall choose, and see what
the issue will be.'

'Truly,' said Julia, 'I am ready to seize any plea under which to redeem my fame. But first
give me yourself a lesson, will you not?'

The Egyptian was not deaf to the invitation, and once more essaying the feat, and with his
whole soul bent to the work, the lance, quicker than sight, darted from his hand, and following
in the wake of Fausta's, lighted farther than hers--being driven with more force--upon the lawn.

The princess now, with more of confidence in her air, again balanced and threw the lance which
Zabdas had chosen--this time with success; for, passing through the shield, it fell side by
side with Fausta's.

'Fortune still unites us,' said Julia; 'if for a time she leaves me a little in the rear, yet
she soon repents of the wrong, and brings me up.' Saying which, she placed herself at Fausta's
side.

'But come, our worthy cousin,' said the Queen, now turning and addressing Antiochus, who stood
with folded arms, dully surveying the scene, 'will you not try a lance?'

'Tis hardly worth our while,' said he, 'for the gods seem to have delivered all the honor and
power of the East into the hands of women.'

'Yet it may not be past redemption,' said Julia, 'and who more likely than Hercules to achieve
so great a work? Pray begin.'

That mass of a man, hardly knowing whether the princess were jesting or in earnest--for to
the usual cloud that rested upon his intellect, there was now added the stupidity arising from
free indulgence at the tables--slowly moved toward the lances, and selecting the longest and
heaviest, took his station at the proper place. Raising then his arm, which was like a weaver's
beam, and throwing his enormous body into attitudes which showed that no child's play was going
on, he let drive the lance, which, shooting with more force than exactness of aim, struck upon
the outer rim of the shield, and then glancing sideways was near spearing a poor slave, whose
pleasure it was, with others, to stand in the neighborhood of the butt, to pick up and return
the weapons thrown, or withdraw them from the shield, where they might have fastened themselves.

Involuntary laughter broke forth upon this unwonted performance of the lance; upon which it
was easy to see, by the mounting color of Antiochus, that his passions were inflamed. Especially--did
we afterward suppose--was he enraged at the exclamation of one of the slaves near the shield,
who was heard to say to his fellow: 'Now is the reign of women at an end.' Seizing, however,
on the instant, another lance, he was known to exclaim, by a few who stood near him, but who
did not take the meaning of his words: 'With a better mark, there may be a better aim.' Then
resuming his position, he made at first, by a long and steady aim, as if he were going, with
certainty now, to hit the shield; but, changing suddenly the direction of his lance, he launched
it with fatal aim, and a giant's force, at the slave who had uttered those words. It went through
him, as he had been but a sheet of papyrus, and then sung along the plain. The poor wretch
gave one convulsive leap into the air, and dropped dead.

'Zenobia!' exclaimed Julia.

'Great Queen!' said Fausta.

'Shameful!'--'dastardly!'--'cowardly!'--broke from one and another of the company.

'That's the mark I never miss,' observed Antiochus; and at the same time regaled his nose from
a box of perfume.

'Tis his own chattel,' said the Queen; 'he may do with it as he lists. He has trenched upon
no law of the realm, but only upon those of breeding and humanity. Our presence, and that of
this company, might, we think, have claimed a more gentle observance.'

'Dogs!' fiercely shouted Antiochus--who, as the Queen said these words, her eyes fastened indignantly
upon him, had slunk sulkily to his seat--'dogs,' said he, aiming suddenly to brave the matter,
'off with yonder carrion!--it offends the Queen.'

'Would our cousin,' said Zenobia, 'win the hearts of Palmyra, this surely is a mistaken way.
Come, let us to the palace. This spot is tainted. But that it may he sweetened as far as may
be, slaves!' she cried, 'bring to the gates the chariot, and other remaining chattels of Antiochus!'

Antiochus, at these words, pale with the apprehensions of a cowardly spirit, rose and strode
toward the palace, from which, in a few moments, he was seen on his way to the city.

'You may judge me needlessly harsh, Piso,' said the Queen, as we now sauntered toward the palace,
'but truly the condition of the slave is such, that seeing the laws protect him not, we must
do something to enlist in his behalf the spirit of humanity. The breach of courtesy, however,
was itself not to be forgiven.'

'It was a merciful fate of the slave,' said I, 'compared with what our Roman slaves suffer.
To be lashed to death, or crucified, or burned, or flayed alive, or torn by dogs, or thrown
as food for fishes, is something worse than this quick exit of the thrall of Antiochus. You
of these softer climes are in your natures milder than we, and are more moved by scenes like
this. What would you think, Queen, to see not one, but scores or hundreds of these miserable
beings, upon bare suspicion of attempts against their master's life, condemned, by their absolute
irresponsible possessors, to death in all its most revolting forms? Nay, even our Roman women,
of highest rank, and gentlest nurture, stand by while their slaves are scourged, or themselves
apply the lash. If under this torture they die, it is thought of but as of the death of vermin.
War has made with us this sort of property of so cheap possession, that to destroy it is often
a useful measure of economy. By a Roman, nothing is less regarded than life. And in truth,
I see not how it can be otherwise.'

'But surely,' said Julia, 'you do not mean to defend this condition of life. It is not like
the sentiments I have heard you express,'

'I defend it only thus,' I replied: 'so long as we have wars--and when will they cease?--there
must be captives; and what can these be but slaves? To return them to their own country, were
to war to no purpose. To colonize them were to strip war of its horrors. To make them freemen
of our own soil, were to fill the land with foes and traitors. Then if there must be slaves,
there must be masters and owners. And the absolute master of other human beings, responsible
to no one, can be no other than a tyrant. If he has, as he must have, the power to punish at
will, he will exercise it, and that cruelly. If he has the power to kill, as he must have,
then will he kill and kill cruelly when his nature prompts. And this his nature will prompt,
or if not his nature absolutely, yet his educated nature. Our children grow up within the sight
and sound of all the horrors and sufferings of this state of things. They use their slaves--with
which, almost in infancy, they are provided--according to their pleasure--as dogs, as horses;
they lash, they scourge them, long before they have the strength to kill. What wonder if the
boy, who, when a boy, used a slave as his beast of burden, or his footstool, when he grows
to be a man, should use him as a mark to be shot at? The youth of Antiochus was reared in Rome.
I presume to say that his earliest play-things were slaves, and the children of slaves. I am
not surprised at his act. And such acts are too common in Rome for this to disturb me much.
The education of Antiochus was continued and completed, I may venture also to say, at the circus.
I think the result very natural. It cannot be very different, where slavery and the sports
of the amphitheatre exist.'

'I perceive your meaning,' said Julia; 'Antiochus you affirm to be the natural product of the
customs and institutions which now prevail. It is certainly so, and must continue so, until
some new element shall be introduced into society, that shall ultimately reform its practices,
by first exalting the sentiments and the character of the individual. Such an element do I
detect----'

'In Christianity,' said Fausta; 'this is your panacea. May it prove all you desire; yet methinks
it gives small promise, seeing it has already been at work more than two hundred years, and
has accomplished no more.'

'A close observer,' replied Julia, 'sees much of the effect of Christianity beside that which
appears upon the surface. If I err not greatly, a few years more will reveal what this religion
has been doing these two centuries and more. Revolutions which are acted out in a day, have
often been years or centuries in preparation. An eye that will see, may see the final issue,
a long time foreshadowed in the tendencies and character of a preceding age.'

The princess uttered this with earnestness. I have reflected upon it. And if you, my Curtius,
will look around upon the state of the empire, you will find many things to startle you. But
of this another time.

Assembled in the evening in the court of the elephant, we were made to forget whatever had
proved disagreeable during the day, while we listened to the 'Frogs,' read by Julia and Longinus.

The following day was appointed for the chase, and early in the morning I was waked by the
braying of trumpets, and the baying of dogs. I found the Queen already mounted and equipped
for the sport, surrounded by Zabdas, Longinus, and a few of the nobles of Palmyra. We were
soon joined by Julia and Fausta. In order to insure our sport, a tiger, made fierce by being
for some days deprived of food, had the preceding evening been let loose from the royal collection
into the neighboring forests. These forests, abounding in game, commence immediately, as it
were, in the rear of the palace. They present a boundless continuity of crag, mountain, and
wooded plain, offering every variety of ground to those who seek the pleasures of the chase.
The sun had not been long above the horizon when we sallied forth from the palace gates, and
from the smooth and shaven fields of the royal demesne, plunged at once into the

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a moment of inexpressible horror. At the same instant, our eyes caught the form of the
famished tiger, just in the act to spring from the crag upon the unconscious Queen. But before
we had time to alarm Zenobia--which would indeed have been useless--a shaft from an unerring
arm arrested the monster midair, whose body then tumbled heavily at the feet of Zenobia's Arab.
The horse, rearing with affright, had nearly dashed the Queen against the opposite rocks, but
keeping her seat, she soon, by her powerful arm and complete horsemanship, reduced him to his
obedience, though trembling like a terrified child through every part of his body. A thrust
from my hunting spear quickly despatched the dying beast. We now gathered around the Queen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hardly were we arrived at the lawn in front of the palace, when a cloud of dust was observed
to rise in the direction of the road to Palmyra, as if caused by a body of horse in rapid movement.
'What may this mean?' said Zenobia: 'orders were strict, that our brief retirement should not
be disturbed. This indicates an errand of some urgency.'

'Some embassy from abroad, perhaps,' said Julia, 'that cannot brook delay. It may be from your
great brother at Rome.'

While we, in a sportive humor, indulged in various conjectures, an official of the palace announced
the approach of a Roman herald, 'who craved permission to address the Queen of Palmyra.' He
was ordered to advance.

In a few moments, upon a horse covered with dust and foam, appeared the Roman herald. Without
one moment's hesitancy, he saw in Zenobia the Queen, and taking off his helmet, said, 'that
Caius Petronius, and Cornelius Varro, ambassadors of Aurelian, were in waiting at the outer
gates of the palace, and asked a brief audience of the Queen of Palmyra, upon affairs of deepest
interest, both to Zenobia and the Emperor.'

'It is not our custom,' said Zenobia in reply, 'when seeking repose, as now, from the cares
of state, to allow aught to break it. But we will not be selfish nor churlish. Bid the servants
of your Emperor draw near, and we will hear them.'

I was not unwilling that the messengers of Aurelian should see Zenobia just as she was now.
Sitting upon her noble Arabian, and leaning upon her hunting spear, her countenance glowing
with a higher beauty than ever before, as it seemed to me--her head surmounted with a Parthian
hunting-cap, from which drooped a single ostrich feather, springing from a diamond worth a
nation's rental, her costume also Parthian, and revealing in the most perfect manner the just
proportions of her form--I thought I had never seen even her, when she so filled and satisfied
the eye and the mind--and, for that moment, I was almost a traitor to Aurelian. Had Julia filled
her seat, I should have been quite so. As it was, I could worship her who sat her steed with
no less grace, upon the left of the Queen, without being guilty of that crime. On Zenobia's
right were Longinus and Zabdas, Gracchus, and the other noblemen of Palmyra. I and Fausta were
near Julia. In this manner, just as we had come in from the chase, did we await the ambassadors
of Aurelian.

Announced by trumpets, and followed by their train, they soon wheeled into the lawn, and advanced
toward the Queen.

'Caius Petronius and Cornelius Varro,' said Zenobia, first addressing the ambassadors, and
moving toward them a few paces, 'we bid you heartily welcome to Palmyra. If we receive you
thus without form, you must take the blame partly to yourselves, who have sought us with such
haste. We put by the customary observances, that we may cause you no delay. These whom you
see are all friends or counsellors. Speak your errand without restraint.'

'We come,' replied Petronius, 'as you may surmises great Queen, upon no pleasing errand. Yet
we cannot but persuade ourselves, that the Queen of Palmyra will listen to the proposals of
Aurelian, and preserve the good understanding which has lasted so long between the West and
the East. There have been brought already to your ears, if I have been rightly informed, rumors
of dissatisfaction on the part of our Emperor, with the affairs of the East, and of plans of
an eastern expedition. It is my business now to say, that these rumors have been well founded.
I am further to say, that the object at which Aurelian has aimed, in the preparations he has
made, is not Persia, but Palmyra.'

'He does us too much honor,' said Zenobia, her color rising, and her eye kindling; 'and what,
may I ask, are specifically his demands, and the price of peace?'

'For a long series of years,' replied the ambassador, 'the wealth of Egypt and the East, as
you are aware, flowed into the Roman treasury. That stream has been diverted to Palmyra. Egypt,
and Syria, and Bithynia, and Mesopotamia, were dependants upon Rome, and Roman provinces. It
is needless to say what they now are. The Queen of Palmyra was once but the Queen of Palmyra;
she is now Queen of Egypt and of the East--Augusta of the Roman empire--her sons styled and
arrayed as Caesars. By whatever consent of former emperors these honors have been won or permitted,
it is not, we are required to say, with the consent of Aurelian. By whatever service in behalf
of Rome they may, in the judgment of some, be thought to be deserved, in the judgment of Aurelian
the reward exceeds greatly the value of the service rendered. But while we would not be deemed
insensible to those services, and while he honors the greatness and the genius of Zenobia,
he would, he conceives, be unfaithful to the interests of those who have raised him to his
high office, if he did not require that in the East, as in the West, the Roman empire should
again be restored to the limits which bounded it in the reigns of the virtuous Antonines. This
he holds essential to his own honor, and the glory of the Roman world.'

'You have delivered yourself, Caius Petronius,' replied the Queen, in a calm and firm voice,
'as it became a Roman to do, with plainness, and as I must believe, without reserve. So far
I honor you. Now hear me, and as you hear, so report to him who sent you. Tell Aurelian that
what I am, I have made myself; that the empire which hails me Queen has been moulded into what
it is by Odenatus and Zenobia; it is no gift, but an inheritance--a conquest and a possession;
it is held, not by favor, but by right of birth and power; and that when he will give away
possessions or provinces which he claims as his or Rome's, for the asking, I will give away
Egypt and the Mediterranean coast. Tell him that as I have lived a queen, so, the gods helping,
I will die a queen,--that the last moment of my reign and my life shall be the same. If he
is ambitious, let him be told that I am ambitious too--ambitious of wider and yet wider empire--of
an unsullied fame, and of my people's love. Tell him I do not speak of gratitude on the part
of Rome, but that posterity will say, that the Power which stood between Rome and Persia, and
saved the empire in the East, which avenged the death of Valerian, and twice pursued the king
of kings as far as the gates of Ctesiphon, deserved some fairer acknowledgment than the message
you now bring, at the hands of a Roman emperor.'

'Let the Queen,' quickly rejoined Petronius, but evidently moved by what he had heard, 'let
the Queen fully take me. Aurelian purposes not to invade the fair region where I now am, and
where my eyes are rejoiced by this goodly show of city, plain and country. He hails you Queen
of Palmyra! He does but ask again those appendages of your greatness, which have been torn
from Rome, and were once members of her body.'

'Your emperor is gracious indeed!' replied the Queen, smiling; 'if he may hew off my limbs,
he will spare the trunk!--and what were the trunk without the limbs?'

'And is this,' said Petronius, his voice significant of inward grief, 'that which I must carry
back to Rome? Is there no hope of a better adjustment?'

'Will not the Queen of Palmyra delay for a few days her final answer?' added Varro: 'I see,
happily, in her train, a noble Roman, from whom, as well as from us, she may obtain all needed
knowledge of both the character and purposes of Aurelian. We are at liberty to wait her pleasure.'

'You have our thanks, Romans, for your courtesy, and we accept your offer; although in what
I have said, I think I have spoken the sense of my people.'

'You have indeed, great Queen,' interrupted Zabdas with energy.

'Yet I owe it to my trusty counsellor, the great Longinus,' continued the Queen, 'and who now
thinks not with me, to look farther into the reasons--which, because they are his, must be
strong ones---by which he supports an opposite judgment.'

'Those reasons have now,' said the Greek, 'lost much or all of their force,'--Zabdas smiled
triumphantly--'yet still I would advocate delay.'

'Let it be so then,' said the Queen; 'and in the meanwhile, let the ambassadors of Aurelian
not refuse the hospitalities of the Eastern Queen. Our palace is yours, while it shall please
you to remain.'

'For the night and the morning, we accept your offers; then, as strangers in this region, we
would return to the city, to see better than we have yet done the objects which it presents.
It seemed to us, on a hasty glance, surrounded by its luxuriant plains, like the habitation
of gods. We would dwell there a space.'

'It shall be as you will. Let me now conduct you to the palace.'

So saying, Zenobia, putting spurs to her horse, led the way to the palace, followed by a long
train of Romans and Palmyrenes. The generous hospitality of the tables closed the day and wore
away the night.

Letter VII.

You will be glad to learn, my Curtius, that the time has now come, when I may with reason look
for news from Isaac, or for his return. It was his agreement to write of his progress, so soon
as he should arrive at Ecbatana. But since he would consume but a very few days in the accomplishment
of his task, if, the gods helping, he should be able to accomplish it at all, I may see him
even before I hear from him, and, O day thrice happy! my brother perhaps with him. Yet am I
not without solicitude, even though Calpurnius should return. For how shall I meet him?--as
a Persian, or a Roman?--as a friend, or an enemy? As a brother, I can never cease to love him;
as a public enemy of Rome, I may be obliged to condemn him.

You have indeed gratified me by what you have said concerning the public works in which the
emperor is now engaged. Would that the erection of temples and palaces might draw away his
thoughts from the East. The new wall, of so much wider sweep, with which he is now enclosing
the city, is well worthy the greatness of his genius. Yet do we, my Curtius, perceive in this
rebuilding and strengthening of the walls of Rome, no indication of our country's decline?
Were Rome vigorous and sound, as once, in her limbs, what were the need of this new defence
about the heart? It is to me a confession of weakness, rather than any evidence of greatness
and strength. Aurelian achieves more for Rome by the strictness of his discipline, and his
restoration of the ancient simplicity and severity among the troops, than he could by a triple
wall about the metropolis. Rome will then already have fallen, when a Gothic army shall have
penetrated so far as even to have seen her gates. The walls of Rome are her living and moving
walls of flesh. Her old and crumbling ramparts of masonry, upon which we have so often climbed
in sport, rolling down into the surrounding ditch huge masses, have ever been to me, when I
have thought of them, pregnant signs of security and power.

The ambassadors, Petronius and Varro, early on the morning succeeding their interview with
the Queen, departed for the city. They were soon followed by Zenobia and her train of counsellors
and attendants. It had been before agreed that the princess, Fausta, and myself, should remain
longer at the palace, for the purpose of visiting, as had been proposed, the aged Christian
hermit, whose retreat is among the fastnesses of the neighboring mountains. I would rather
have accompanied the Queen, seeing it was so certain that important interviews and discussions
would take place, when they should be all returned once more to the city. I suppose this was
expressed in my countenance, for the Queen, as she took her seat in the chariot, turned and
said to me: 'We shall soon see you again in the city. A few hours in the mountains will be
all that Julia will require; and sure I am that the wisdom of St. Thomas will more than repay
you for what you may lose in Palmyra. Our topics will relate but to worldly aggrandizement--yours
to more permanent interests.'

How great a pity that the love of glory has so fastened upon the heart of this wonderful woman;
else might she live, and reign, and die the object of universal idolatry. But set as her heart
is upon conquest and universal empire throughout the East, and of such marvellous power to
subdue every intellect, even the strongest, to her will, I can see nothing before her but a
short and brilliant career, ending in ruin, absolute and complete. Zenobia has not, or will
not allow it to be seen that she has, any proper conception of the power of Rome. She judges
of Rome by the feeble Valerian, and the unskilful Heraclianus, and by their standard measures
such men as Aurelian, and Probus, and Carus. She may indeed gain a single battle, for her genius
is vast, and her troops well disciplined and brave. But the loss of a battle would be to her
the loss of empire, while to Rome it would be but as the sting of a summer insect. Yet this
she does not or will not see. To triumph over Aurelian is, I believe, the vision that dazzles,
deludes, and will destroy her.

No sooner had the Queen and her train departed, than, mounting our horses, we took our way,
Julia, Fausta, and myself, through winding valleys and over rugged hills, toward the hermit's
retreat. Reaching the base of what seemed an almost inaccessible crag, we found it necessary
to leave our horses in the care of attendant slaves, and pursue the remainder of the way on
foot. The hill which we now had to ascend was thickly grown over with every variety of tree
and bush, with here and there a mountain stream falling from rock to rock, and forcing its
way to the valley below. The sultry heat of the day compelled us frequently to pause, as we
toiled up the side of the hill, seating ourselves, now beneath the dark shadows of a branching
cedar or the long-lived terebinth, and now on the mossy banks of a descending brook. The mingled
beauty and wildness of the scene, together with such companions, soon drove the Queen, Rome,
and Palmyra, from my thoughts. I could not but wish that we might lose our way to the hermit's
cave, that by such means our walk might be prolonged.

'Is it, I wonder,' said Fausta, 'the instruction of his religion which confines this Christian
saint to these distant solitudes? What a singular faith it must be which should drive all who
embrace it to the woods and rocks! What would become of our dear Palmyra, were it to be changed
to a Christian city? The same event, I suppose, Julia, would change it to a desert.'

'I do not think Christianity prescribes this mode of life, though. I do not know but it may
permit it,' replied the princess. 'But of this, the Hermit will inform us. He may have chosen
this retreat on account of his extreme age, which permits him no longer to engage in the affairs
of an active life.'

'I trust for the sake of Christianity it is so,' added Fausta; 'for I cannot conceive of a
true religion inculcating, or even permitting inactivity. What would become of the world, if
it could be proved that the gods required us to pass our days in retired contemplation?'

'Yet it cannot be denied,' said Julia, 'that the greatest benefactors of mankind have been
those who have in solitude, and with patient labor, pursued truth till they have discovered
it, and then revealed it to shed its light and heat upon the world.'

'For my part,' replied Fausta, 'I must think that they who have sowed and reaped, have been
equal benefactors. The essential truths are instinctive and universal. As for the philosophers,
they have, with few exceptions, been occupied as much about mere frivolities as any Palmyrene
lady at her toilet. Still, I do not deny that the contemplative race is a useful one in its
way. What I say is, that a religion which enjoined a solitary life as a duty, would be a very
mischievous religion. And what is more, any such precept, fairly proved upon it, would annihilate
all its claims to a divine origin. For certainly, if it were made a religious duty for one
man to turn an idle, contemplative hermit, it would be equally the duty of every other, and
then the arts of life by which we subsist would be forsaken. Any of the prevalent superstitions,
if we may not call them religions, were better than this.'

'I agree with you entirely,' said Julia; 'but my acquaintance with the Christian writings is
not such as to enable me to say with confidence that they contain no such permission or injunction.
Indeed some of them I have not even read, and much I do not fully understand. But as I have
seen and read enough to believe firmly that Christianity is a divine religion, my reason teaches
me that it contains no precept such as we speak of.'

We had now, in the course of our walk, reached what we found to be a broad and level ledge,
about half way to the summit of the hill. It was a spot remarkable for a sort of dark and solemn
beauty, being set with huge branching trees, whose tops were woven into a roof, through which
only here and there the rays of the fierce sun could find their way. The turf beneath, unincumbered
with any smaller growth of tree or shrub, was sprinkled with flowers that love the shade. The
upper limit of this level space was bounded by precipitous rocks, up which ascent seemed difficult
or impossible, and the lower by similar ones, to descend which seemed equally difficult or
impossible.

'If the abode of the Christian is hereabouts,' we said, 'it seems well chosen both for its
security and the exceeding beauty of the various objects which greet the eye.'

'Soon as we shall have passed that tumbling rivulet,' said Julia, 'it will come into view.'

Upon a rude bridge of fallen trunks of trees, we passed the stream as it crossed our path,
and which then shooting over the edge of the precipice, was lost among the rocks and woods
below. A cloud of light spray fell upon us as we stood upon the bridge, and imparted a most
refreshing coolness.

'Where you see,' said Julia, 'that dark entrance, beneath yonder low-browed rock, is the dwelling
of the aged Christian.'

We moved on with slow and silent steps, our spirits partaking of the stillness and solitariness
of the place. We reached the front of the grotto, without disturbing the meditations of the
venerable man. A part of the rock which formed his dwelling served him for a seat, and another
part projecting after the manner of a shelf, served him for a table, upon which lay unrolled
a large volume. Bending over the book, his lean and shrivelled finger pointing to the words,
and aiding his now dim and feeble eye, he seemed wholly wrapped in the truths he was contemplating,
and heeded not our presence. We stood still for a moment, unwilling to break a repose so peaceful
and profound. At length, raising his eyes from the page, they caught the form and face of the
princess, who stood nearest to him. A quick and benignant smile lighted up his features; and
rising slowly to his full height, he bade her welcome, with sweet and tremulous tones, to his
humble roof.

'It is kind in you,' said he,'so soon again to ascend these rough solitudes, to visit a now
unprofitable old, man; and more kind still to bring others with you. Voices from the world
ring a sweet music in my ear--sweeter than any sound of bird or stream. Enter, friends, if
it please you, and be rested, after the toil of your ascent.'

'I bring you here, father,' said Julia, 'according to my sometime promise, my friend and companion,
the daughter of Gracchus, and with her a noble Roman, of the house of Piso, lately come hither
from the capital of the world.'

'They are very, very welcome,' replied the saint, 'your presence breaks most gratefully the
monotony of my life.'

'We almost doubted,' said I, 'venerable Father, whether it would please you to find beneath
your roof those who receive not your belief, and what is much more, belong to a faith which
has poured upon you and yours so full a flood of suffering and reproach. But your countenance
assures us that we have erred.'

'You have, indeed,' replied the sage; 'as a Christian I see in you not pagans and unbelievers,
not followers of Plato and Epicurus, not dwellers in Rome or Alexandria, but members of the
great family of man, and as such I greet you, and already love you. The design of christianity
is to unite and draw together, not divide and drive asunder. It teaches its disciples, indeed,
to go out and convert the world, but if they cannot convert it, it still teaches them to love
it. My days and my strength have been spent in preaching Christ to Jews and heathen, and many
of those who have heard have believed. But more have not. These are not my brethren in Christ,
but they are my brethren in God, and I love them as his.'

'These are noble sentiments,' said Fausta. 'Religion has, in almost all its forms, condemned
utterly all who have not received it in the form in which it has been proposed. Rome, indeed,
used to be mild and tolerant of every shape which the religious sentiment assumed. But since
the appearance of christianity it has wholly changed its policy. I am afraid it formerly tolerated,
only because it saw nothing to fear. Fearing christianity, it seeks to destroy it. That is
scarcely generous of you, Lucius; nor very wise either--for surely truth can neither be created
nor suppressed by applications of force. Such is not the doctrine of christianity, if I understand
you right.'

'Lady, most certainly not,' he replied. 'Christianity is offered to mankind, not forced upon
them. And this supposes in them the power and the right to sit in judgement upon its truth.
But were not all free judgment destroyed, and all worthy reception of it therefore, if any
penal consequences--greater or less, of one kind or another, present or future--followed upon
its rejection? Rome has done wickedly, in her aim to suppress error and maintain truth by force.
Is Rome a god to distinguish with certainty the one from the other? But alas! Rome is not alone
to blame in this. Christians themselves are guilty of the same folly and crime. They interpret
differently the sayings of Christ--as how should they not?--and the party which is stronger
in numbers already begins to oppress, with hard usage and language, the weaker party, which
presumes to entertain its own opinions. The Christians of Alexandria and Rome, fond of the
ancient philosophy, and desirous to recommend the doctrines of Christ, by showing their near
accordance with it, have, as many think, greatly adulterated the gospel, by mixing up with
its truths the fantastic dreams of Plato. Others, among whom is our Paul of Antioch, deeming
this injurious and erroneous, aim to restore the Christian doctrine to the simplicity that
belongs to it in the original records, and which, for the most part, it still retains among
the common people. But this is not willingly allowed. On the contrary, because Paul cannot
see with their eyes and judge with their judgment, he is to be driven from his bishopric. Thus
do the Christians imitate in their treatment of each other their common enemy, the Roman. They
seem already ashamed of the gentleness of Christ, who would have every mind left in its own
freedom to believe as its own powers enable it to believe. Our good Zenobia, though no Christian,
is yet in this respect the truest Christian. All within her realm, thought is free as the air
that plays among these leaves.'

'But is it not, said Fausta, 'a mark of imperfection in your religion, that it cannot control
and bind to a perfect life its disciples? Methinks a divine religion should manifest its divinity
in the superior goodness which it forms.'

'Is not that just?' I added.

'A divine religion,' he replied, 'may indeed be expected to show its heaven-derived power in
creating a higher virtue than human systems. And this, I am sure, christianity does. I may
safely challenge the world to show in human form the perfection which dwelt in Jesus, the founder
of this religion. Yet his character was formed by the power of his own doctrines. Among his
followers, if there have been none so perfect as he, there have been multitudes who have approached
him, and have exhibited a virtue which was once thought to belong only to philosophers. The
world has been accustomed to celebrate, with almost divine honors, Socrates, and chiefly because
of the greatness of mind displayed by him when condemned to drink the cup of poison. I can
tell you of thousands among the Christians, among common and unlearned Christians, who have
met death, in forms many times more horrible than that in which the Greek encountered it, with
equal calmness and serenity. This they have been enabled to do simply through the divine force
of a few great truths, which they have implicitly believed. Beside this, consider the many
usages of the world, which, while others hold them innocent, the Christians condemn them, and
abstain from them. It is not to be denied that they are the reformers of the age. They are
busy, sometimes with an indiscreet and violent zeal, in new modeling both the opinions and
practices of the world. But what then? Are they to be condemned if a single fault may be charged
upon, them? Must they be perfect, because their religion is divine? This might be so, if it
were of the nature of religion to operate with an irresistible influence upon the mind, producing
an involuntary and forced obedience. But in such an obedience there would be nothing like what
we mean by virtue, but something quite inferior in the comparison. A religion, for the reason
that it is divine, will, with the more certainty, make its appeals to a free nature. It will
explain the nature and reveal the consequences of virtue and vice, but will leave the mind
free to choose the one or the other. Christianity teaches, that in goodness, and faithfulness
to the sense of duty, lies the chief good; in these there is a heaven of reward, not only now
and on earth, but throughout an existence truly immortal. Is it not most evident that, with
whatever authority this religion may propound its doctrines, men not being in a single power
coerced, will not, though they may receive them, yield to them an equal observance? Hence,
even among Christians, there must foe, perhaps ever, much imperfection.'

'Does not this appear to you, Fausta and Piso,' said Julia, as the old man paused, 'just and
reasonable? Can it be an objection to this faith, that its disciples partake of the common
weaknesses of humanity? Otherwise, religion would be a principle designed, not so much to improve
and exalt our nature, as to alter it.

'We allow it readily to be both just and reasonable.'

'But it seemed to us,' said Fausta, 'as we ascended the mountain, and were conversing, to be
with certainty a proof of imperfection in your religion--pardon my freedom, we are come as
learners, and they who would learn, must, without restraint, express their doubts--that it
recommended or permitted a recluse and inactive life. Have your days, Father, been passed in
this deep solitude? and has your religion demanded it?'

'Your freedom pleases me,' replied the venerable man; 'and I wonder not at the question you
propose. Not my religion, lady, but an enfeebled and decrepit frame chains me to this solitude.
I have now outlasted a century, and my powers are wasted and gone. I can do little more than
sit and ponder the truths of this life-giving book, and anticipate the renewed activity of
that immortal being which it promises. The Christian converts, who dwell beneath those roofs
which you see gleaming in the valley below, supply the few wants which I have. When their labor
is done for the day, they sometimes come up, bringing with them baskets of fresh or dried fruits,
which serve me, together with the few roots and berries which I myself can gather as I walk
this level space, for my food. My thirst I quench at the brook which you have just passed.
Upon this simple but wholesome nutriment, and breathing this dry mountain air, my days may
yet be prolonged through many years. But I do not covet them, since nature makes me a prisoner.
But I submit, because my faith teaches me to receive patiently whatever the Supreme Ruler appoints.
It is not my religion that prescribes this manner of life, or permits it, but as the last refuge
of an imbecility like mine. Christianity denounces selfishness, in all its forms, and what
form of selfishness more gross than to spend the best of one's days in solitary musing and
prayer, all to secure one's own salvation? The founder of this religion led an active and laborious
life. He did good not only to himself by prayer and meditation: he went about doing it to others--seeking
out objects whom he might benefit and bless. His life was one of active benevolence; and the
record of that life is the religious code of his followers. No condemnation could be more severe
than that which the Prophet of Nazareth would pronounce upon such a life as mine now is, were
it a chosen, voluntary one. But it never has been voluntary. Till age dried up the sources
of my strength, I toiled night and day in all countries and climates, in the face of every
danger, in the service of mankind. For it is by serving others, that the law of Christ is fulfilled.
Disinterested labor for others constituted the greatness of Jesus Christ. This constitutes
true greatness in his followers. I perceive that what I say falls upon your ear as a new and
strange doctrine. But it is the doctrine of christianity. It utterly condemns, therefore, a
life of solitary devotion. It is a mischievous influence which is now spreading outward from
the example of that Paul, who suffered so much under the persecution of the Emperor Decius
and who then, flying to the solitudes of the Egyptian Thebais, has there, in the vigor of his
days, buried himself in a cave of the earth, that he may serve God by forsaking man. His maxim
seems to be, "The farther from man, the nearer to God"---the reverse of the Christian maxim,
"The nearer man, the nearer God." A disciple of Jesus has truly said: "He who loves not his
brother whom he hath seen, how shall he love God, whom he hath not seen?" This, it may be,
Roman, is the first sentence you have ever heard from the Christian books.'

'I am obliged to confess that it is,' I replied. 'I have heretofore lived in an easy indifference
toward all religions. The popular religion of my country I early learned to despise. I have
perused the philosophers, and examined their systems, from Pythagoras to Seneca, and am now,
what I have long been, a disciple of none but Pyrrho. My researches have taught me only how
the more ingeniously to doubt. Wearied at length with a vain inquiry after truth that should
satisfy and fill me, I suddenly abandoned the pursuit, with the resolve never to resume it.
I was not even tempted to depart from this resolution when Christianity offered itself to my
notice; for I confounded it with Judaism, and for that, as a Roman, I entertained too profound
a contempt to bestow upon it a single thought. I must acknowledge that the reports which I
heard, and which I sometimes read, of the marvellous constancy and serenity of the Christians,
under accumulated sufferings and wrongs, interested my feelings in their behalf; and the thought
often arose, "Must there not be truth to support such heroism?" But the world went on its way,
and I with it, and the Christians were forgotten. To a Christian, on my voyage across the Mediterranean,
I owe much, for my first knowledge of Christianity. To the Princess Julia I owe a larger debt
still. And now from your lips, long accustomed to declare its truths, I have heard what makes
me truly desirous to hear the whole of that which, in the glimpses I have been able to obtain,
has afforded so real a satisfaction,'

'Were you to study the Christian books,' said the recluse, 'you would be chiefly struck perhaps
with the plainness and simplicity of the doctrines there unfolded. You would say that much
which you found there, relating to the right conduct of life, you had already found scattered
through the books of the Greek and Roman moralists. You would be startled by no strange or
appalling truth. You would turn over their leaves in vain in search of such dark and puzzling
ingenuities as try the wits of those who resort to the pages of the Timaeus. A child can understand
the essential truths of Christ. And the value of Christianity consists not in this, that it
puts forth a new, ingenious, and intricate system of philosophy, but that it adds to recognised
and familiar truths divine authority. Some things are indeed new; and much is new, if that
may be called so which, having been neglected as insignificant by other teachers, has by Christ
been singled out and announced as primal and essential. But the peculiarity of Christianity
lies in this, that its voice, whether heard in republishing an old and familiar doctrine, or
announcing, a new one, is not the voice of man, but of God. It is a revelation. It is a word
from the invisible, unapproachable Spirit of the universe. For this Socrates would have been
willing to renounce all his wisdom. Is it not this which we need? We can theorize and conjecture
without end, but cannot relieve ourselves of our doubts. They will assail every work of man.
We wish to repose in a divine assurance. This we have in Christianity. It is a message from
God. It puts an end to doubt and conjecture. Wise men of all ages have agreed in the belief
of One God; but not being able to demonstrate his being and his unity, they have had no power
to change the popular belief, which has ever tended to polytheism and idolatry, Christianity
teaches this truth with the authority of God himself, and already has it become the faith of
millions. Philosophers have long ago taught that the only safe and happy life is a virtuous
life. Christianity repeats this great truth, and adds, that it is such a life alone that conducts
to immortality. Philosophers have themselves believed in the doctrine of a future existence,
and have died hoping to live again; and it cannot be denied that mankind generally have entertained
an obscure expectation of a renewed being after death. The advantage of Christianity consists
in this, that it assures us of the reality of a future life, on the word and authority of God
himself. Jesus Christ taught, that all men come forth from death, wearing a new spiritual body,
and thereafter never die; and to confirm his teaching, he himself being slain, rose from the
dead, and showed himself to his followers alive, and while they were yet looking upon him,
ascended to some other and higher world. Surely, Roman, though christianity announced nothing
more than these great truths, yet seeing it puts them forth in the name, and with the authority
of God, it is a vast accession to our knowledge.'

'Indeed it cannot be denied,' I answered. 'It would be a great happiness too to feel such an
assurance, as he must who believes in your religion, of another life. Death would then lose
every terror. We could approach the close of life as calmly and cheerfully, sometimes as gladly,
as we now do the close of a day of weary travel or toil. It would be but to lie down and rest,
and sleep, and rise again refreshed by the slumber for the labors and enjoyments of a life
which should then be without termination, and yet unattended by fatigue. I can think of no
greater felicity than to be able to perceive the truth of such a religion as yours.'

'This religion of the Christians,' said Fausta, 'seems to be full of reasonable and desirable
truth--if it all be truth. But how is this great point to be determined? How are we to know
whether the founder of this religion was in truth a person holding communication with God?
The mind will necessarily demand a large amount of evidence, before it can believe so extraordinary
a thing. I greatly fear, Julia, lest I may never be a Christian. What is the evidence, Father,
with which you trust, to convince the mind of an inquirer? It must possess potency, for all
the world seems flocking to the standard of Christ.'

'I think, indeed,' replied the saint, 'that it possesses potency. I believe its power to be
irresistible. But do you ask in sincerity, daughter of Gracchus, what to do in order to believe
in christianity?'

'I do, indeed,' answered Fausta. 'But know that my mind is one not easy of belief.'

'Christianity, lady, asks no forced or faint assent. It appeals to human reason, and it blames
not the conscientious doubter or denier. When it requires you to examine, and constitutes you
judge, it condemns no honest decision. The mind that approaches christianity must be free,
and ought to be fearless. Hesitate not to reject that which evidence does not substantiate.
But examine and weigh well the testimony. If then you would know whether christianity be true,
it is first of all needful that you read and ponder the Christian books. These books prove
themselves. The religion of Christ is felt to be true, as you read the writings in which it
is recorded. Just as the works of nature prove to the contemplative mind the being of a God,
so do the books of the Christians prove the truth of their religion. As you read them, as your
mind embraces the teaching, and above all, the character of Christ, you involuntarily exclaim:
"This must be true; the sun in the heavens does not more clearly point to a divine author,
than do the contents of these books." You find them utterly unlike any other books--differing
from them just in the same infinite and essential way that the works of God differ from the
works of man.'

He paused, and we were for a few moments silent. At length Fausta said: 'This is all very new
and strange, Father! Why, Julia, have you never urged me to read these books?'

'The princess,' resumed the hermit, 'has done wisely co leave you to the promptings of your
own mind. The more every thing in religion is voluntary and free, the more worth attaches to
it. Christ would not that any should be driven or urged to him; but that they should come.
Nevertheless the way must be pointed out. I have now shown you one way. Let me tell you of
another. The Christian books bear the names of the persons who profess to have written them,
and who declare themselves to have lived and to have recorded events which happened in the
province of Judea, in the reigns of Tiberius and Nero. Now it is by no means a difficult matter
for a person, desirous to arrive at the truth, to institute such inquiries, as shall fully
convince him that such persons lived then and there, and performed the actions ascribed to
them. We are not so far removed from those times, but that by resorting to the places where
the events of the Christian history took place, we can readily satisfy ourselves of their truth--if
they be true--by inquiring of the descendants of those who were concerned in the very transactions
recorded. This thousands and thousands have done, and they believe in the events--strange as
they are--of the Christian history as implicitly as they do in the events of the Roman history,
for the same period of time. Listen, my children, while I rehearse my own experience as a believer
in Christ.

'My father, Cyprian, a native of Syria, attained, as I have attained, to an extreme old age.
At the age of five score years and ten, he died within the walls of this quiet dwelling of
nature's own hewing, and there at the root of that ancient cedar his bones repose. He was for
twenty years a contemporary of St. John the evangelist--of that John, who was one of the companions
of Jesus the founder of christianity, and who ere he died wrote a history of Jesus, of his
acts and doctrine. From the very lips of this holy man, did the youthful but truth-loving and
truth-seeking Cyprian receive his knowledge of christianity. He sat and listened while the
aged apostle--the past rising before him with the distinctness of a picture--told of Jesus;
of the mild majesty of his presence; of the power and sweetness of his discourse; of the love
he bore toward all that lived; of his countenance radiant with joy when, in using the miraculous
power intrusted to show descent from God, he gave health to the pining sick, and restored the
dying and the dead to the arms of weeping friends. There was no point of the history which
the apostle has recorded for the instruction of posterity, which Cyprian did not hear, with
all its minuter circumstances, from his own mouth. Nay, he was himself a witness of the exercise
of that same power of God which was committed without measure to Jesus, on the part of the
apostle. He stood by--his spirit wrapt and wonderstruck--while at the name of Jesus the lame
walked, the blind recovered their sight, and the sick leaped from their couches. When this
great apostle was fallen asleep, my father, by the counsel of St. John, and that his faith
might be yet farther confirmed, travelled over all the scenes of the Christian history. He
visited the towns and cities of Judea, where Jesus had done his marvellous works. He conversed
with the children of those who had been subjects of the healing power of the Messiah. He was
with those who themselves had mingled among the multitudes who encompassed him, when Lazarus
was summoned from the grave, and who clung to the cross when Jesus was upon it dying, and witnessed
the sudden darkness, and felt the quaking of the earth. Finding, wherever he turned his steps
in Judea, from Bethlehem to Nazareth, from the Jordan to the great sea, the whole land filled
with those who, as either friends or enemies, had hung upon the steps of Jesus, and seen his
miracles, what was he, to doubt whether such a person as Jesus had ever lived, or had ever
done those wonderful works? He doubted not; he believed, even as he would have done had he
himself been present as a disciple. In addition to this, he saw at the places where they were
kept, the evangelic histories, in the writing of those who drew them up; and at Rome, at Corinth,
at Philippi, at Ephesus, he handled with his own hands the letters of Paul, which he wrote
to the Christians of those places; and in those places and others, did he dwell and converse
with multitudes who had seen and heard the great apostle, and had witnessed the wonders he
had wrought. I, the child of Cyprian's old age, heard from him all that I have now recounted
to you. I sat at his feet, as he had sat at the evangelist's, and from him I heard the various
experiences of his long, laborious, and troubled life. Could I help but believe what I heard?--and
so could I help but be a Christian? My father was a man--and all Syria knows him to have been
such an one--of a passionate love of truth. At any moment would he have cheerfully suffered
torture and death, sooner than have swerved from the strictest allegiance to its very letter.
Nevertheless, he would not that I should trust to him alone, but as the apostle had sent him
forth, so he sent me forth, to read the evidences of the truth of this religion in the living
monuments of Judea. I, too, wandered a pilgrim over the hills and plains of Galilee. I sat
in the synagogue at Nazareth, I dwelt in Capernaum. I mused by the shore of the Galilean lake.
I haunted the ruins of Jerusalem, and sought out the places where the Savior of men had passed
the last hours of his life. Night after night I wept and prayed upon the Mount of Olives. Wherever
I went, and among whomsoever I mingled, I found witnesses eloquent and loud, and without number,
to all the principal facts and events of our sacred history. Ten thousand traditions of the
life and acts of Christ and his apostles, all agreeing substantially with the written records,
were passing from mouth to mouth, and descending from sire to son. The whole land, in all its
length and breadth, was but one vast monument to the truth of Christianity. And for this purpose
it was resorted to by the lovers of truth from all parts of the world. Did doubts arise in
the mind of a dweller in Rome, or Carthage, or Britain, concerning the whole or any part of
the Christian story, he addressed letters to well known inhabitants of the Jewish cities, or
he visited them in person, and by a few plain words from another, or by the evidence of his
own eyes and ears, every doubt was scattered. When I had stored my mind with knowledge from
these original sources, I then betook myself to some of the living oracles of Christian wisdom,
with the fame of whose learning and piety the world was filled. From the great Clement of Rome,
from Dionysius at Alexandria, from Tertullian at Carthage, from that wonder of human genius,
Origen, in his school at Caesarea, I gathered together what more was needed to arm me for the
Christian warfare; and I then went forth full of faith myself to plant its divine seeds in
the hearts of whosoever would receive them. In this good work my days have been spent. I have
lived and taught but to unfold to others the evidences which have made me a Christian. My children,'continued
he, 'why should you not receive my words? why should I desire to deceive you? I am an old man,
trembling upon the borders of the grave. Can I have any wish to injure you? Is it conceivable
that, standing thus already as it were before the bar of God, I could pour false and idle tales
into your ears? But if I have spoken truly, can you refuse to believe? But I must not urge.
Use your freedom. Inquire for yourselves. Let the leisure and the wealth which are yours carry
you to read with your own eyes that wide-spread volume which you will find among the mountains
and valleys of the holy land. Princess, my strength is spent, or there is much more I could
gladly add.'

'My friends,' said the princess, 'are, I am sure, grateful for what you have said, and they
have heard.'

'Indeed we are,' said Fausta, 'and heartily do we thank you. One thing more would I ask. What
think you of the prospects of the Christian faith? Are the common reports of its rapid ascendency
to be heeded? Is it making its way, as we are told, even into the palaces of kings? I know,
indeed, what happens in Palmyra; but elsewhere, holy father?'

As Fausta spoke these words, the aged man seemed wrapped in thought. His venerable head sank
upon his breast; his beard swept the ground. At length, slowly raising his head, and with eyes
lifted upward, he said, in deep and solemn tones: 'It cannot, it cannot be difficult to read
the future. It must be so. I see it as if it were already come. The throne which is red with
blood, and he who sits thereon, wielding a sword dropping blood, sinks--sinks--and disappears;
and one all white, and he who sits thereon, having upon his frontlet these words, "Peace on
earth and good will toward men," rises and fills its place. And I hear a movement as of a multitude
which no man number, coming and worshipping around the throne. God of the whole earth, arise!--visit
it with thy salvation! Hasten the coming of the universal kingdom of thy Son, when all shall
know thee, and love to God and love to man possess and fill every soul.'

As the venerable man uttered this prayer, Julia looked steadfastly upon him, and a beauty more
than of earth seemed to dwell upon her countenance.

'Father,' said Fausta, 'we are not now fair judges of truth. Your discourse has wrought so
upon us, that we need reflection before we can tell what we ought to believe.'

'That is just,' said the saint; 'to determine right, we must think as well as feel. And that
your minds may the sooner return to the proper state, let me set before you of such as my dwelling
will afford.'

Saying this, he moved from the seat which till now he had retained, and closing the volume
he had been reading, laid it away with care, saying as he did so, 'This, children, is the Christian's
book; not containing all those writings which we deem to be of authority in describing our
faith, but such as are most needful. It is from reading this, and noting as you read the inward
marks of honesty, and observing how easy it were, even now, by visiting Judea, to convict its
authors of error and falsehood, had they been guilty of either, that your minds will be best
able to judge of the truth and worth of Christianity.'

'At another time, father,' said Fausta, 'it would give me great delight, and equally too, I
am sure, our friend from Rome, if you would read to us portions of that volume, that we may
know somewhat of its contents from your lips, accompanied too by such comments as you might
deem useful to learners. It is thus we have often heard the Greek and Roman writers from the
mouth of Longinus.'

'Whenever,' he replied, 'you shall be willing to ascend these steep and rugged paths, in pursuit
of truth, I in my turn will stand prepared to teach. To behold such listeners before me, brings
back the life of former days.'

He then, with short and interrupted steps, busied himself in bringing forth his humble fare.
Bread and fruits, and olives, formed our light repast, together with ice-cold water, which
Julia, seizing from his hand the hermit's pitcher, brought from a spring that gushed from a
neighboring rock.

This being ended, and with it much various and agreeable conversation, in the course of which
the Christian patriarch gave many striking anecdotes of his exposed and toilsome life, we rose,
and bidding farewell, with promises to return again, betook ourselves to our horses, and mounting
them, were soon at the gates of the palace.

I confess myself interested in the question of Christianity. The old religions are time-worn,
and in effect dead. To the common people, when believed, they are as often injurious as useful--to
others, they are the objects of open, undisguised contempt. Yet religion, in some form, the
human mind must have. We feel the want of it as we do of food and drink. But, as in the case
of food and drink, it must be something that we shall perceive to nourish and strengthen, not
to debilitate and poison. In my searches through antiquity, I have found no system which I
could rest in as complete and satisfying. They all fail in many vital points. They are frequently
childish in their requisitions and their principles; their morality is faulty; their spirit
narrow and exclusive; and more than all, they are without authority. The principles which are
to guide, control, and exalt our nature, it seems to me, must proceed from the author of that
nature. The claim of Christianity to be a religion provided for man by the Creator of man,
is the feature in it which draws me toward it. This claim I shall investigate and scan, with
all the ability and learning I can bring to the work. But whatever I or you may think of it,
or ultimately determine, every eye must see with what giant steps it is striding onward--temples,
religions, superstitions, and powers crumbling and dissolving at its approach. Farewell.

Letter VIII.

The words of that Christian recluse, my Curtins, still ring in my ear. I know not how it is,
but there is a strange power in all that I have heard from any of that sect. You remember how
I was struck by the manner, the countenance, and above all by the sentiments of Probus, the
Christian whom I encountered on his way to Carthage. A still stronger feeling possesses me,
when I hear the same things from the lips of Julia. It seems as if she herself, and the religion
she discourses of, must proceed from the same author. She is certainly a divine work. And there
is such an alliance between her and those truths, that I am ready almost to believe that for
this reason alone they must have that very divine origin which is claimed for them. Is there
any thing in our Roman superstitions, or philosophy even, that is at all kindred to the spirit
of a perfect woman?--any thing suited to her nature? Has it ever seemed as if woman were in
any respect the care of the gods? In this, Christianity differs from all former religions and
philosophies. It is feminine. I do not mean by that, weak or effeminate. But in its gentleness,
in the suavity of its tone, in the humanity of its doctrines, in the deep love it breathes
toward all of human kind, in the high rank it assigns to the virtues which are peculiarly those
of woman, in these things and many others, it is throughout for them as well as for us--almost
more for them than for us. In this feature of it, so strange and new, I see marks of a wisdom
beyond that of any human fabricator. A human inventor would scarcely have conceived such a
system; and could he have conceived it, would not have dared to publish it. It would have been
in his judgment to have wantonly forfeited the favor of the world. The author of Christianity,
with a divine boldness, makes his perfect man, in the purity and beauty of his character, the
counterpart of a perfect woman. The virtues upon which former teachers have chiefly dwelt,
are by him almost unnoticed, and those soft and feminine ones, which others seem to have utterly
forgotten, he has exalted to the highest place. So that, as I before said, Julia discoursing
to me of Christianity is in herself, in the exact accordance between her mind and heart and
that faith, the strongest argument I have yet found of its truth. I do not say that I am a
believer. I am not. But I cannot say what the effect may be of a few more interviews with the
hermit of the mountain, in company with the princess. His arguments, illustrated by her presence,
will carry with them not a little force.

When, after our interview with the Christian, we had returned to the Queen's villa, we easily
persuaded ourselves that the heat of the day was too great for us to set out, till toward the
close of it, for the city. So we agreed, in the absence of the Queen and other guests, to pass
the day after our own manner, and by ourselves. The princess proposed that we should confine
ourselves to the cool retreats near the fountain of the Elephant, made also more agreeable
to us than any other place by the delightful hours we had sat there listening to the melodious
accents of the great Longinus. To this proposal we quickly and gladly assented. Our garments
being then made to correspond to the excessive heats of the season, soothed by the noise of
the falling waters, and fanned by slaves who waved to and fro huge leaves of the palm tree,
cut into graceful forms, and set in gold or ivory, we resigned ourselves to that sleepy but
yet delicious state which we reach only a few times in all our lives, when the senses are perfectly
satisfied and filled, and merely to live is bliss enough. But our luxurious ease was slightly
diversified with additions and changes no ways unwelcome. Ever and anon slaves entered, bearing
trays laden with every rare and curious confection which the art of the East supplies, but
especially with drinks cooled by snow brought from the mountains of India. These, in the most
agreeable manner, recruited our strength when exhausted by fits of merriment, or when one had
become weary of reading or reciting a story for the amusement of the others, and the others
as weary, or more weary, by listening. It were in vain to attempt to recall for your and Lucilia's
entertainment the many pleasant things which were both said and done on this day never to be
forgotten. And besides, perhaps, were they set down in order and sent to Rome, the spicy flavor
which gave life to them here might all exhale, and leave them flat and dull. Suffice it therefore
to say, that in our judgment many witty and learned sayings were uttered--for the learning,
that must rest upon our declaration--for the wit, the slaves will bear witness to it, as they
did then, by their unrestrained bursts of laughter.

It was with no little reluctance that, as the last rays of the sun fell upon the highest jet
of the fountain, we heard the princess declare that the latest hour had come, and we must fain
prepare for the city. A little time sufficed for this, and we were soon upon our horses threading
the defiles among the hills, or flying over the plains. A few hours brought us within the gates
of the city. Leaving Julia at the palace of the Queen, we turned toward the house of Gracchus.
Its lofty front soon rose before us. As we passed into the court-yard, the first sound that
greeted me was Milo's blundering voice: 'Welcome, most noble Gallienus, welcome again to Palmyra!'

'I am not,' said I, 'quite an emperor yet, but notwithstanding, I am glad to be in Palmyra--more
glad to be at the house of Gracchus--and glad most of all to see Gracchus himself at home,
and well'--the noble Roman--as I shall call him--at that moment issuing from a door of the
palace, and descending at a quick pace the steps, to assist Fausta from her horse.

'We are not,' said he, 'long separated; but to those who really love, the shortest separation
is a long one, and the quickest return an occasion of joy.' Saying so, he embraced and kissed
his beautiful daughter, and grasped cordially my hand.

'Come,' added he, 'enter and repose. Your ride has been a sharp one, as your horses declare,
and the heat is great. Let us to the banqueting-hall, as the coolest, and there sit and rest.'
So we were again soon within that graceful apartment, where I had first sat and tasted the
hospitalities of Palmyra. The gods above were still at their feast, drinking or drunken. Below,
we sat at the open windows, and with more temperance regaled ourselves with the cool air that
came to us, richly laden with the fragrance of surrounding flowers, and with that social converse
that is more inspiring than Falernian, or the soft Palmyrene. After talking of other things,
Gracchus addressed me saying:

'But is it not now time, Lucius, that a letter at least came from Isaac? I have forborne to
inquire, from time to time, as I would do nothing to add to your necessary anxiety. It surely
now however is right to consider the steps next to be taken, if he shall have failed in his
enterprise.'

'Isaac and Calpurnius,' I replied, 'are never absent from my thoughts, and I have already resolved--the
gods willing and favoring--that when a period of sufficient length shall have elapsed, and
the Jew does not appear, having either perished on the way or else in the capital of the Great
King--myself to start, as I at first designed to do, upon this expedition, and either return
with my brother, or else die also in the endeavor. Seek not, Fausta, as I perceive you are
about to do, to turn me from my purpose. It will be--it ought to be--in vain. I can consent
no longer to live thus in the very heart of life, while this cloud of uncertainty hangs over
the fate of one so near to me. Though I should depute the service of his rescue to a thousand
others, my own inactivity is insupportable, and reproaches me like a crime.'

'I was not, as you supposed, Lucius,' replied Fausta, 'about to draw you away from your purpose,
but, on the contrary, to declare my approbation of it. Were I Lucius, my thoughts would be,
I am sure, what yours now are; and to-morrow's sun would light me on the way to Ecbatana. Nay,
father, I would not wait a day longer. Woman though I am, I am almost ready to offer myself
a companion of our friend on this pious service.'

'I shall not,' said Gracchus, 'undertake to dissuade our friend from what seems now to be his
settled purpose. Yet still, for our sakes, for the sake of the aged Portia, and all in Rome,
I could wish--supposing Isaac should fail--that one more attempt might be made in the same
way, ere so much is put at hazard. It needs no great penetration to see how highly prized by
Persia must be the possession of such a trophy of her prowess as the head of the ancient house
of Piso--with what jealousy his every movement would be watched, and what danger must wait
upon any attempt at his deliverance. Moreover, while a mere hireling might, if detected, have
one chance among a thousand of pardon and escape, even that were wanting to you. Another Piso
would be either another footstool of the Persian despot, while life should last, or else he
would swing upon a Persian gibbet, and so would perish the last of a noble name.'

'I cannot deny that reason is on your side,' I said, in reply to this strong case of Gracchus,
'but feeling is on mine, and the contest is never an equal one. Feeling is, perhaps, the essence
of reason, of which no account need or can be given, and ought to prevail. But however this
may be, I feel that I am right, and so I must act.'

'But let us now think of nothing else,' said Fausta, 'than that before another day is ended,
we shall get intelligence of Isaac. Have you, Lucius, inquired, since your return, of Demetrius?'

'Milo is now absent on that very errand,' I replied, 'and here he is, giving no signs of success.'

Milo at the same moment entered the hall, and stated that Demetrius was himself absent from
the city, but was every moment expected, and it was known that he had been seeking anxiously--the
preceding day--for me. While Milo was yet speaking, a messenger was announced, inquiring for
me, and before I could reach the extremity of the apartment, Demetrius himself entered the
room in haste, brandishing in his hand a letter, which he knew well to be from Isaac.

''Tis his own hand,' said he, 'The form of his letters is not to be mistaken. Not even the
hand of Demetrius can cut with more grace the Greek character. Observe, Roman, the fashion
of his touch. Isaac would have guided a rare hand at the graving tool. But these Jews shun
the nicer arts. They are a strange people.'

'Quickly,' said I, interrupting the voluble Greek, 'as you love the gods, deliver to me the
letter! By and by we will discourse of these things'--and seizing the epistle, I ran with it
to another apartment, first to devour it myself.

I cannot tell you, dear friends, with what eagerness I drank in the contents of the letter,
and with what ecstasy of joy I leaped and shouted at the news it brought. In one word, my brother
lives, and it is possible that before this epistle to you shall be finished, he himself will
sit at my side. But to put you in possession of the whole case, I shall transcribe for you
the chief parts of Isaac's careful and minute account, preserving for your amusement much of
what in no way whatever relates to the affair in hand, and is useful only as it will present
a sort of picture of one of this strange tribe. As soon as I had filled myself with its transporting
contents, I hastened to the hall where I had left Fausta and Gracchus, to whom--Demetrius having
in the mean time taken his departure--I quickly communicated its intelligence, and received
their hearty congratulations, and then read it to them very much as I now transcribe it for
you. You will now acknowledge my obligations to this kind-hearted Jew, and will devoutly bless
the gods for my accidental encounter with him on board the Mediterranean trader. Here now is
the letter itself.

ISAAC, the Son of Isaac of Rome, to the most noble L. MANLIUS Piso, at Palmyra:

That I am alive, Roman, after the perils of my journey, and the worse perils of this Pagan
city, can be ascribed to nothing else than the protecting arm of the God of our nation. It
is new evidence to me, that somewhat is yet to be achieved by my ministry, for the good of
my country. That I am here in this remote and benighted region, that I should have adventured
hither in the service of a Roman to save one Roman life, when, were the power mine, I would
cut off every Roman life, from the babe at the breast to the silver head, and lay waste the
kingdom of the great Mother of Iniquity with fire and sword, is to me a thing so wonderful,
that I refer it all to the pleasure of that Power, who orders events according to a plan and
wisdom impenetrable by us. Think not, Roman, that I have journeyed so far for the sake of thy
two talents of gold--though that is considerable. And the mention of this draws my mind to
a matter, overlooked in the stipulations entered into between thee and me, at my dwelling in
Palmyra. Singular, that so weighty a part of that transaction should have been taken no note
of! Now I must trust it wholly to thee, Piso, and feel that I may safely do so. In case of
my death, the double of the recompense agreed upon was to be paid, in accordance with directions
left. But what was to be done in case of thy death? Why, most thoughtful Isaac--most prudent
of men--for this thou didst make no provision! And yet may not Piso die; as well as Isaac?
Has a Roman more lives than a Jew? Nay, how know I but thou art now dead, and no one living
to do me justice? See to this, excellent Roman. Thou wouldst not have me go unrequited for
all this hazard and toil. Let thy heirs be bound, by sure and legal instruments, to make good
to me all thou hast bound thyself to pay. Do this, and thy gods and my God prosper thee! Forget
it not. Let it be done as soon as these words are read. Demetrius will show thee one who will
draw up a writing in agreement with both the Palmyrene and Roman Law. Unheard of heedlessness!
But this I thought not about till I took my pen to write.

What was I saying?--that I came not for thy gold--that is, not for that solely or chiefly.
For what, and why, then? Because, as I have hinted, I felt myself driven by an invisible power
to this enterprise. I wait with, patience to know what its issue is to be.

Now let me inform thee of my journey and my doings. But first, in one brief word, let me relieve
thy impatience by saying, I think thy brother is to be rescued! No more of this at present,
but all in order. When I parted from thee that night, I had hardly formed my plan, though my
mind, quick in all its workings, did suddenly conceive one way in which it appeared possible
to me to compass the desired object. Perhaps you will deem it a piece of rashness rather than
of courage so quickly to undertake your affair, I should call it so too, did I not also catch
dimly in the depth of the Heavens the form of the finger of God. This thou wilt not and canst
not understand. It is beyond thee. Is it not so? But, Roman, I trust the day is to come when
by my mouth, if not by another's, thou shalt hear enough to understand that truth is to be
found no where but in Moses. Avoid Probus. I fear me he is already in Palmyra. There is more
cunning in him than is good. With that deep face and serene air he deceives many. All I say
is, shun him. To be a Roman unbeliever is better than to be a Christian heretic. But to my journey.

The morning after I parted from thee saw me issuing at an early hour from the Persian Gate,
and with my single Ethiopian slave bearing toward the desert, I took with me but a light bale
of merchandise, that I might not burden my good dromedary. Than mine, there is not a fleeter
in the whole East. One nearly as good, and at a huge price, did I purchase for my slave. 'T
was too suddenly bought to be cheaply bought. But I was not cozened. It proved a rare animal.
I think there lives not the man in Palmyra or Damascus who could blind Isaac. I determined
to travel at the greatest speed we and our beasts could bear, so we avoided as far as we could
the heats of day, and rode by night. The first day being through the peopled regions of the
Queen's dominions, and through a cultivated country, we travelled at our ease; and not unfrequently
at such places as I saw promised well, did we stop, and while our good beasts regaled themselves
upon the rich herbage or richer grain, trafficked. In this surely I erred not. For losing,
as I have done by this distant and unwonted route, the trade of Ctesiphon, 't was just, was
it not, that to the extent possible, without great obstruction thrown in the way of your affairs,
I should repair the evil of that loss? Truth to speak, it was only because my eye foresaw some
such profitings on the way, that I made myself contented with but two gold talents of Jerusalem.
Two days were passed thus, and on the third we entered upon a barren region--barren as where
the prophet found no food but such as birds from Heaven brought him. But why speak of this
to thee? O, that thou wouldst but once only once, sit at the feet of that man of God, Simon
Ben Gorah! Solomon was not more wise. His words are arrows with two heads from a golden bow.
His reasons weigh as the mountains of Lebanon. They break and crush all on whom they fall.
Would, Roman, they might sometime fall on thee! The third day we were on this barren region,
and the next fairly upon the desert. Now did we reap the benefit of our good beasts. The heat
was like that of the furnace of Nebuchadnezzar, out of which the three children, Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego came, through the power of God, unscorched. And moreover, they were soon
put to an unwonted and unlooked for burden, and in such a manner as, to thy wonder, I shall relate.

It was a day the air of which was like the air of that furnace--burning--burning hot. Death
was written upon the whole face of the visible earth. Where leaves had been, there were none
now, or they crumbled into ashes as the hand touched them. The atmosphere, when moved by the
wind, brought not, as it is used to do, a greater coolness, but a fiercer heat. It was full
of flickering waves that danced up and down with a quivering motion, and dazzled and blinded
the eye that looked upon them. And the sand was not like that which for the most part is met
with on that desert stretching from the Mediterranean to Palmyra, and of which thou hast had
some experience--heavy, and hard, and seamed with cracks--but fine, and light, and raised into
clouds by every breath of wind, and driven into the skin like points of needles. When the wind,
as frequently it did, blew with violence, we could only stop and bury our faces in our garments,
our poor beasts crying out with pain. It was on such a day, having, because there was no place
of rest, been obliged to endure all the noonday heat, that, when the sun was at the highest
and we looked eagerly every way for even a dry and leafless bush that we might crouch down
beneath its shade, we saw at a distance before us the tall trunk of a cedar, bleached to ivory,
and twinkling like a pharos under the hot rays. We slowly approached it, Hadad, my Ethiopian,
knowing it as one of the pillars of the desert.

'There it has stood and shone a thousand years,' said he; 'and but for such marks, who could
cross these seas of sand, where your foot-mark is lost, as soon as made?' After a few moments'
pause, he again exclaimed: 'And by the beard of holy Abraham! a living human being sits at
the root--or else mayhap my eyes deceive me, and I see only the twisted roots of the tree.'

''T is too far for my eyes to discern aught but the blasted trunk. No living creature can dwell
here. 'T is the region of death only.'

A blast of the desert struck us at the moment, and well nigh buried us in its rushing whirlwind
of sand. We stood still, closed our eyes, and buried our faces in the folds of our garments.

'Horrible and out of nature!' I cried--'the sun blazing without a cloud as big as a locust
to dim his ray, and yet these gusts, like the raging of a tempest. The winds surely rise. Providence
be our guide out of this valley of fire and death!'

'There is no providence here,' said the slave, 'nor any where; else why these savage and dreary
deserts, which must be crossed, and yet we die in doing it.'

'Hold thy peace, blasphemer!' I could not but rejoin, 'and take heed lest thy impious tongue
draw down a whirlwind of God to the destruction of us both.'

'The curse of Arimanes'--began the irritated slave--when suddenly he paused, and cried out
in another tone: 'Look! look! Isaac, and see now for thyself: I am no Jew, if there sit not
a woman at the root of yonder tree,'

I looked, and now that we had drawn nearer, and the wind had subsided for an instant, I plainly
beheld the form of a woman, bent over as if in the act of holding and defending an infant.
I believed it a delusion of Satan.

'It is awful,' said I; 'but let us hasten; if it be a reality, our coming must be as the descent
of angels.'

I pressed on my weary animal, and in a few moments we stood before what seemed indeed a human
being, of flesh and bone--and what was more wonderful still, a woman. Yet she stirred not,
nor gave other sign of life.

'Is the breath of life yet in you?' I cried out--not doubting, however, that whoever it was,
death had already released her from her misery--and at the same time laid my hand upon her
shoulder. At which she started, and lifting up her head, the very ghastliness of death stamped
upon every feature, she shrieked: 'I drown! I drown! Hassan, save me!' and her head fell again
upon her knees.

'Poor fool,' said I, 'thou art upon the sands of the desert, and thou dreamest: awake!--awake!--and
here is water for thee--real water.'

At which she waked indeed, with a convulsive start, and while with one hand she held fast her
child--for a child was indeed laid away among the folds of her garments--with the other she
madly grasped the small cup I held out to her, and tearing aside the covering from the face
of the infant, she forced open its mouth, and poured in some of the water we gave her, watching
its effect. Soon as the little one gave signs of life, she drank the remainder at a draught,
crying out, 'More! more!' Our water, of which we had as yet good store, though hot as the wind
itself, quickly restored both mother and child.

'And now tell me, miserable woman, what direful chance has brought and left thee here?--but
hasten--speak quickly as thou canst--and dost thou look for any one to come to thy relief?'

'Robbers of the desert,' said she, 'have either murdered or carried into slavery my husband,
and destroyed and scattered the caravan of which we made a part. I am alone in the desert;
and I know of no relief but such as you can give. Leave us not, if you are men, to perish in
these burning sands!'

'Fear not that I will leave you,' said I: 'what I can spare, shall freely be thine. But time
is precious, for we are yet but midway the desert, and the signs of the heavens portend wind
and whirlwind: hasten then and mount the dromedary of my slave, while I upon mine-bear as stronger
than thou--the child.'

'Isaac,' here muttered Hadad, in an undertone, 'art thou mad? Is thy reason wholly gone? It
is scarcely to be hoped that we alone may cross in safety what remains of the desert, beset
as we are by these sweeping gusts, and wilt thou oppress our fainting beasts with this new burden?'

'Thou accursed of God! wouldst thou leave these here to perish? I believed not before that
out of hell there could be so black a soul. Bring down thy dromedary. One word of hesitancy,
and thy own carcass shall bleach upon the sands.'

I knew well who I was dealing with--that I was safe from immediate violence, though not from
ultimate revenge.

Hadad then drew up his beast, which kneeling received the woman, while I took in my arms the
child. We then set forward at an increased pace, to reach before light, if possible, the 'place
of springs,' where a small green spot, watered by fountains which never fail, blesses these
inhospitable plains.

Not a cloud was to be seen in all the compass of the heavens, yet the winds raged. The blueness
of the sky was gone, and the whole inflamed dome above us was rather of the color of molten
brass, the sun being but its brightest and hottest spot. At a distance we saw clouds of sand
whirled aloft, and driven fiercely over the boundless plain, any one of which, it seemed to
us, if it should cross our path, would bury us under its moving mass. We pressed on, trembling
and silent through apprehension. The blood in my veins seemed hotter than the sand, or the
sun that beat upon my face. Roman, thou canst form no conception of the horrors of this day.
But for my faith, I should have utterly failed. What couldst thou have done?--nay, or the Christian
Probus? But I will not taunt thee. I will rather hope. The wind became more and more violent.
The sand was driven before it like chaff. Sometimes the tempest immediately around us would
abate, but it only served to fill us with new apprehensions, by revealing to us the tossings
of this great deep, in the distance. At one of these moments, as I was taking occasion to speak
a word of comfort to the half dead mother, and cherish the little one whom I bore, a sound
as of the roar of ocean caught my ear--more awful than aught I had yet heard--and at the same
time a shriek and a shout from Hadad, 'God of Israel, save us! The sand! the sand!'

I looked in the direction of the sound, and there in the south it looked--God, how terrible
to behold!--as if the whole plain were risen up, and were about to fall upon us.

''T is vain to fly!' I cried aloud to Hadad, who was urging his animal to its utmost speed.
'Let us perish together. Besides, observe the heaviest and thickest of the cloud is in advance
of us.'

The mother of the child cried out, as Hadad insanely hastened on, for her offspring, to whom
I answered: 'Trust the young Ishmael to me--fear me not--cleave to the dromedary.'

Hardly were the words spoken, when the whirlwind struck us. We were dashed to the earth as
we had been weeds. My senses were for a time lost in the confusion and horror of the scene.
I only knew that I had been torn from my dromedary--borne along and buried by the sand--and
that the young child was still in my arms. In the first moment of consciousness, I found myself
struggling to free myself from the sand which was heaped around and over me. In this, after
a time, I succeeded, and in restoring to animation the poor child, choked and blinded, yet--wonderful
indeed!--not dead. I then looked around for Hadad and the woman, but they were no where to
be seen. I shouted aloud, but there was no answer. The sand had now fallen--the wind had died
away--and no sound met my ear, but the distant rumbling of the retreating storm. Not far from
me, my own dromedary stood, partly buried in sand, and vainly endeavoring to extricate himself.
With my aid, this was quickly effected. I was soon upon his back. But I knew not which way
to turn. My dependence was upon Hadad, familiar with the route. The sun however had declined
sensibly toward the west--I knew that my general direction was toward the east and north, so
that with some certainty as to the true path, I sorrowfully recommenced my journey. Have I
not thy pity, Roman? Has a worse case ever come to thy ear? I will not distress thee by reciting
my sufferings all the way to the 'place of springs,' which by the next morning, plodding on
wearily through the night, I safely reached.

There one of the first objects that greeted me, was Hadad and the mother of my Ishmael. I approached
them unobserved, as they sat on the border of a spring. In the midst of other travellers, some
of whom I saw were comforting the wailing Hagar--and, without a word, dropped the young child
into the lap of its mother. Who shall describe the transports of her joy? 'T was worth, Piso,
the journey and all its hazards.

How refreshing it was to lie here on the cool soil, beneath the shade of the grateful palm,
enjoying every moment of existence, and repairing the injuries the journey had inflicted upon
ourselves and our beasts! Two days we passed in this manner. While here, Hadad related what
befel him after our separation. Owing to his urging on his animal in that mad way, at the time
I called out to him, instead of stopping or retreating, he was farther within the heart of
the cloud than I, and was more rudely handled.

'Soon as the blast fell upon us,' said he, 'that instant was my reason gone. I knew nothing
for I cannot tell how long. But when I came to myself, and found that I was not in the place
of the wicked--whereat I rejoiced and was amazed--I discovered, on looking round, that my good
dromedary, whom I could ill spare, was dead and buried, and your Hagar, whom I could have so
well spared, alive and weeping for her lost boy. I made her, with difficulty, comprehend that
time was precious, and that strength would be impaired by weeping and wailing. Knowing at once
in what direction to travel--after searching in vain for thee--we set out upon a journey, which,
on foot, beneath a burning sun, and without water, there was small hope of accomplishing. I
looked with certainty to die in the desert. But Oromasdes was my protector. See, Isaac, the
advantage of a little of many faiths. We had not travelled far among the hillocks, or hills
rather, of sand which we found piled up in our way, and completely altering the face of the
plain, before, to our amazement and our joy, we discovered a camel, without rider or burden,
coming toward us. I secured him without difficulty. At a little distance, we soon saw another;
and by and by we found that we were passing over the graves of a caravan, the whole or chief
part of which had been overwhelmed by the storm. Here was a body partly out of the sand, there
the head or leg of a dromedary or camel. Ruin and death seemed to have finished their work.
But it was not quite so. For presently on reaching the summit of a wave of sand, we discerned
a remnant mounted upon the beasts that had been saved, making in the same direction, and probably
to the same point, as ourselves. We joined them, and partaking of their water, were recruited,
and so reached this place alive. It is now from here,' he added, 'a safe and easy road to Ecbatana.'

So we found it. But confess now, noble Piso, if in thy judgment it would have been exorbitant
if I had required of thee three talents of Jerusalem instead of two? For what wouldst thou
cross that molten sea, and be buried under its fiery waves! It is none other than a miracle
that I am here alive in Ecbatana. And for thee I fear that miracle would not have been wrought.
Hadst thou been in my place, the sands of the desert were now thy dwelling-place. Yet have
I again to tempt those horrors. Being here, I must return. The dromedary of my slave Hadad
was worth a hundred aurelians. A better or a fleeter never yet was in the stables of Zenobia.
And dost thou know, Roman, how curious the Queen is in horses and dromedaries? There cannot
a rare one of either kind enter the walls of Palmyra, but he is straightway bought up for the
service of Zenobia. The swiftest in the East are hers. 'T was my purpose, returning, to have
drawn upon Hadad's beast the notice of the Queen. Doubtless I should have sold it to her, and
two hundred aurelians is the very least I should have asked or taken for her. To no other than
Zenobia would I have parted with her for less than three hundred. But alas! her bones are on
the desert. But why, you ask, should I have so favored Zenobia? It is no wonder you ask. And
in answer, I tell thee perhaps a secret. Zenobia is a Jewess! Receive it or not, as thou wilt--she
is a Jewess--and her heart is tender toward our tribe. I do not say, mark me, that she is one
by descent, nor that she is so much as even a proselyte of the Gate, but that she believes
in some sort Moses and the prophets and reads our sacred books. These things I know well from
those who have been near her. But who ever heard that she has been seen to read the books of
the Christians! Probus will not dare to assert it. 'T is not more public that Longinus himself
is inclined to our faith--by my head, I doubt not that he is more than inclined--than 'tis
that Zenobia is. If our Messiah should first of all gird on the sword of Palmyra, what Jew,
whose sight is better than a mole's, would be surprised? My father--may his sleep be sweet!--whose
beard came lower than his girdle, and whose wisdom was famous throughout the East, built much
upon what he knew of the Queen, and her great minister, and used to say, 'That another Barchochab
would arise in Palmyra, whom it would require more than, another Hadrian to hinder in his way
to empire; and that if horses again swam in blood, as once at Bither, 'twould be in Roman blood.'
Who am I, to deny truth and likelihood to the words of one in whom dwelt the wisdom of Solomon
and the meekness of Moses, the faith of Abraham, the valor of Gideon, and the patience of Job?
I rather maintain their truth. And in the features of the present time, I read change and revolution--war,
and uproar, and ruin--the falling of kingdoms that have outlasted centuries, and the uprising
of others that shall last for other centuries. I see the Queen of the East at battle with the
Emperor of Rome, and through her victories deliverance wrought out for Israel, and the throne
of Judah once more erected within the walls of Jerusalem! Now dost thou, Piso, understand,
I suppose, not one word of all this. How shouldst thou? But I trust thou wilt. Surely now you
will say, 'What is all this to the purpose?' Not much to any present purpose, I confess freely;
and I should not marvel greatly if thou wert to throw this letter down and trample it in the
dust--as Rome has done by Judea--but that thou lookest to hear of thy brother. Well, now I
will tell thee of him.

When we drew near to the capital of the Great King, wishing to enrage Hadad, I asked, 'What
mud-walled village is it that we see yonder over the plain?' Thou shouldst have seen the scowl
of his eye--answer he gave none. I spit upon such a city--I cast out my shoe upon it! I who
have dwelt at Rome, Carthage, Antioch, and Palmyra, may be allowed to despise a place like
this. There are but two things that impress the beholder--the Palace of Sapor, and the Temple
of Mithras, near it. These truly would be noted even in Palmyra. Not that in the building any
rule or order of art is observed, but that the congregation of strange and fantastic trickery--some
whereof, it cannot be gainsaid, is of rare beauty--is so vast that one is pleased with it as
he is with the remembrance of the wonderful combinations of a dream.

Soon as we entered the gates of the city, I turned to the woman whom we brought from the desert,
and who rode the camel with Hadad, and said to her: 'First of all, Hagar, we take thee to those
who are of thy kindred, or to thy friends, and well may they bless the good Providence of God
that they see thee. 'T was a foul deed of thy husband, after the manner of the patriarch to
leave thee and thy little one to perish on the burning sands of the desert.'

'Good Jew,' she replied, 'my name is not Hagar, nor did my husband leave me willingly. I tell
thee we were set upon by robbers, and Hassan, my poor husband, was either killed, or carried
away no one can tell whither.'

'No matter--names are of little moment. To me, thou art Hagar, and thy little one here is Ishmael--and
if thou wilt, Ishmael shall be mine. I will take him and rear him as mine--he shall be rich--and
thou shalt be rich, and dwell where thou wilt.' The child, Roman, had wound itself all around
my heart. He was of three years or more, and, feature for feature, answered to the youngest
of my own, long since lost, and now in Abraham's bosom. But it was not to be as I wished. All
the mother rushed into the face of the woman.

'Good Jew,' she cried, 'the God of Heaven will reward thee for thy mercy shown to us; but hadst
thou saved my life a thousand times, I could not pay thee with my child. I am poor, and have
nought to give thee but my thanks.'

'I will see thee again,' said I to the widow of Hassan, as we set her down in the street where
her kinsfolk dwelt, 'if thou wilt allow me. Receive thy child.'

The child smiled as I kissed him and gave him again to his mother. It was the smile of Joseph.
I could at that moment almost myself have become a robber of the desert, and taken what the
others had left.

We here parted, and Hadad and myself bent our way to the house of Levi, a merchant well known
to Hadad, and who, he assured me, would gladly receive us. His shop, as we entered it, seemed
well stored with the richest goods, but the building of which it made a part promised not very
ample lodgings. But the hospitable welcome of the aged Levi promised better.

'Welcome every true son of Israel,' said he, as we drew near where in a remoter part of the
large apartment he sat busy at his books of account. 'Make yourselves at home beneath the roof
of Levi. Follow me and find more private quarters.'

So, leaving Hadad and the camels to the care of those whom our host summoned, I followed him
as desired to another part of the dwelling. It now seemed spacious enough. After winding about
among narrow and dark passages, we at length came to large and well-furnished rooms, apparently
quite remote from the shop, and far removed from the street. Here we seated ourselves, and
I unfolded to Levi the nature of my business. He listened, wondered, smiled, shook his head,
and made a thousand contrary movements and signs. When I had done, he comforted and instructed
me after this manner.

'Something like a fool's errand. Yet the pay is good--that cannot be doubted. It had been better,
I think, for thee to have followed thy trade in Palmyra or Ctesiphon. Yet perhaps this may
turn out well. The promised sum is large. Who can tell? 'Tis worth a risk. Yet if, in taking
the risk, one loses his head, it were a mad enterprise. Verily, I can say nothing but that
time will disclose it, and the event prove it. A thing is not seen all at once, and the eye
cannot at once reach every part of a ball. Wait with patience, and God shall show it.'

I saw that nothing was to be got from this prophet. Yet perhaps he knew facts. So I asked him
of Hormisdas and Sapor, and if he knew aught of the Roman Piso, held a strict prisoner in Ecbatana.

'A prisoner, say you?' he replied, beginning at the end of my question; 'how can a Persian
Satrap be called a prisoner? He dwells in the palace of Hormisdas, and when seen abroad, rides
upon a horse whose harness is jewelled like the prince's, and his dress moreover is of the
richest stuffs, and altogether Persian. 'Tis forgotten by most that he is any other than a
native Persian.'

'Is he ever seen to ride alone?' I asked.

'Why the question? I know not. Who should know who rides alone and who in company? When I have
seen him, it has always been in the train of others.'

'I thought as much. Doubtless he goes abroad well guarded. His companions, Levi, I doubt are
little better than jailers?'

Levi opened his eyes, but it was to no purpose; they can see no other thing clearly, save a
Persian coin.

I found, upon further inquiry, that it was even as I had supposed and had heard. Calpurnius
lives in the palace of Hormisdas, and is his chosen companion and friend, but is allowed by
Sapor no liberty of movement, and wherever he goes is attended by persons appointed to guard
him. Nor have the many years that he has been here caused this vigilance in any degree to relax.
All outward honor is shown him, except by the king, who, had he not, in the time of Valerian,
passed his word to the prince his son, and fully surrendered Piso into his hands, would, it
is believed, even now use him as he did the unhappy emperor. But he is safe in the keeping
of the prince. And the guard about him, it is my present suspicion, is as much to defend him
against any sudden freak of the king or his satellites, as it is to prevent his escape. The
least that could happen to any Roman falling into Sapor's power would be to be flayed alive.
My safety will lie in my being known only as a Jew, not as a dweller in Rome.

And now, Roman, thou desirest to know in what manner I mean to accomplish the deliverance of
thy brother. It is thus. Commend the cunning of it. My Ethiopian slave is then--I must tell
thee to thine amazement--no Ethiopian and no slave! He is one of my own tribe whom I have many
times employed in difficult affairs, and having often conferred upon him the most essential
favors, have bound him to my will. Him I am to leave here, being first cleansed of the deep
dye with which by my art--and what art is it I am not familiar with?--I have stained his skin
to the darkest hue of the African, and then in his place, and retained to the same hue, am
I to take thy brother, and so with security and in broad day walk through the gates of Ecbatana.
Is it to be thought of that I should fail? All will rest with Calpurnius. If, in the first
place, he shall be willing to return, and then, in the next place, shall consent to submit
to this momentary and only apparent degradation, the issue is as certain to be happy, as the
means shall be tried. My head never set with a sense of more security upon my shoulders, than
now, while planning and putting into execution this Carthaginian plot.

It was first of all necessary that I should become acquainted with the city, with the situation
and structure of the palace of Hormisdas, and make myself known in the streets as one of those
way-side merchants whom all abuse, yet whom all are glad to trade with. So, with my slave bending
under the burden of those articles of use or luxury which I thought would be most attractive,
we set forth into the midst of the busy streets, seeking a market for our commodities. Several
days were passed in this manner, returning each night to lodge in the house of the rich and
foolish, but hospitable Levi.

While thus employed, I frequently saw Calpurnius in company with the prince or other nobles,
either riding in state through the streets of the city, or else setting out upon excursions
of pleasure beyond the walls. But my chief object was to observe well the palace of the prince,
and learn the particular part of it inhabited by the Roman, and how and where it was his custom
to pass his time. This it was not difficult to do. The palace of the prince I found to occupy
a square of the city not far from that of the king his father. It is of vast extent, but of
a desolate aspect, from the fewness of its inhabitants and the jealousy with which the prince
and all his movements are watched by the wicked and now superannuated Sapor. Every day I diligently
paced the streets upon which it stands. I at first went without Hadad, that I might observe
with the more leisure. I at length discovered the apartments used by Calpurnius, and learned
that it was his custom, when not absent from the palace upon some enterprise of pleasure, to
refresh himself by breathing the air, and pacing to and fro upon a gallery of light Persian
architecture, which borders immediately upon one of the four streets that bounds the palace.
This gallery was not so high above the street but what the voice could easily reach those who
were walking there, and that without greatly increasing its natural tone. From pillar to pillar
there ran along a low lattice-work of fanciful device, upon which it was the usage of Calpurnius,
and those who were with him, often to lean and idly watch the movements of the passengers below.
Here, I found, must be my place of audience. Here I must draw his attention, and make myself
known to him. For an opportunity to do this, I saw at once I might be obliged to wait long,
for scarce ever was Calpurnius there, but Hormisdas, or some one of the nobles, was with him;
or if he was alone, yet the street was so thronged that it must be difficult to obtain a hearing.

Having learned these things, I then came forth, with Hadad bearing my merchandise, I myself
going before him as owner and crier. Many times did I pass and repass the gallery of Calpurnius
to no purpose--he either not being there, or attended closely by others, or wrapped in thought
so that my cries could not arouse him. It was clear to me that I must make some bold attempt.
He was one day standing at the lattice-work already named, alone, and looking at the passers
by. Seeing him there as I entered the street, I made directly toward the spot, crying in the
loudest tone my goods; and notwithstanding the numbers who were on their way along the street,
I addressed myself boldly to him, purposely mistaking him for Hormisdas. 'Prince,' said I,
'buy a little, if it please you, of a poor Jew, who has lately traversed the desert to serve
you. I have in these panniers wonders from all parts of the world. There is not a city famous
for its art in any rare and curious work, that is not represented here. Kings, queens, and
princes, have not disdained to purchase of me. The great Sapor at Ctesiphon has of me procured
some of his largest diamonds. I have sold to Claudius, and Zenobia, and half the nobility of
Palmyra. Dost thou see, prince, the glory of this assortment of diamonds? Look! How would they
become thy finger, thy hunting cap, or thy sandals?'

Thy brother listened to me with unmoved countenance and folded arms, receiving passively whatever
I was pleased to say. When I paused, he said, in a tone of sadness, though of affected pleasantry:

'Jew, I am the worst subject for thee in all Ecbatana. I am a man without wants. I do nothing
but live, and I have nothing to do to live.'

'Now,' I replied, 'is it time for me to die, having seen the chief wonder of the world--a man
without wants.'

'There is a greater yet,' said he smiling; 'thou must live on.'

'And what is that?'

'A woman.'

'Thou hast me. But I can easily compound with life. I have many wants, yet I love it. I was
but a day or two since buried alive under the burning sands of the desert, and lost there a
dromedary worth--if a farthing--four hundred aurelians, for which thou mayest have him. Yet
I love to live, and take the chances of the world as they turn up. Here now have I all the
way consoled myself with the thought of what I might sell to the great Prince Hormisdas, and
thou seest my reward. Still I cry my goods with the same zeal. But surely thou wantest something?
I have jewels from Rome--of the latest fashion.'

'I want nothing from Rome.'

Seeing no one was near, and lowering my voice, I said, 'Thou wantest nothing from Rome? What
wouldst thou give, Roman, for news from Rome?'

'News from Rome? Not an obolus. How knowest thou me to be a Roman? But now, I was the prince
Hormisdas.'

'I have seen thee many times, and know thee well, as the Roman Piso. I have news for thee.'

'The prince approaches!' said Piso, in a hurried manner. 'Begone, but come again at the hour
of dusk, and I shall be alone, and will have thee admitted within the gates of the palace.'

The fates ordering it so, I was obliged to depart, and trust again to the future for such chances
of renewing my conversation with him as it might have to offer. Here let me tell thee, Lucius
Piso, that not having seen thy brother, thou hast never seen a man. He is one with every mark
of the noblest manhood. His air is that of a born prince of the highest bearing, yet free and
unrestrained. The beauty of his countenance is beyond that of any other I have ever seen, yet
is it a manly beauty. A line of dark short hair covers his upper lip. His eyes are large and
dark, yet soft in their general expression. He seems of a melancholy and thoughtful temper,
and sometimes in his words there is an inexpressible bitterness. Yet it has appeared to me,
that his nature is gentle, and that the other character is one accidental or assumed. If I
should compare him with any one for beauty, it would be, Roman, not with thee--though I see
him and thee to be of the same stock--but with the princess Julia. Were her beauty only made
masculine, she would then be Calpurnius; or were his made feminine, he would then be Julia.
But this fancy might not strike others. His features and air are not so much Roman as oriental--thine
are purely Roman. It may be that costume alone imparts this Eastern aspect to the countenance
and the form--for his dress is wholly that of a Persian.

As I passed into the dwelling of my host, entering it as at first by the way of the shop, its
owner was holding a conversation of business with some of his customers. How does money seem
native to the palm of some men! They have but to open it, and straight it is lined with gold.
If they blunder, it is into more wealth. With wit scarce sufficient to make it clear to another
that they are properly men, do they manage to make themselves the very chief of all, by reason
of the riches they heap up--which ever have claimed and received, and ever will, the homage
of the world. Levi is of this sort. The meanness of his understanding words cannot express--or
no words but his own. He was talking after this manner, as I entered, to one who seemed to
hold him in utmost reverence:

'The thing is so--the thing is so. If 't were otherwise 'tis most clear it would not be the
same. Ha! The price may change. Who can say? The world is full of change. But it cannot be
less, and leave a gain to the seller--unless indeed, circumstances altering, the profit should
still he the same. But who can understand the future? An hour is more than I can comprehend.
He that deals well with the present, is it not he, Holy Abraham! who best secures the passing
time? It cannot be denied!'

As the oracle ended, the Persian bowed low, saying:

'The wisdom of it is clearer than the light. I shall so report to the prince.' Seeing me, he,
in his friendly way, inquired after my success, shaking his head at what he is pleased to regard
my mad enterprise. 'Better not meddle nor make in such matters. With thy pack upon thy back,
and exercising diligence, thou wouldst become rich here in the streets of Ecbatana. And for
what else shouldst thou care? 'Tis only money that remains the same in the midst of change.
All agree in the value they place upon this, while they agree in nothing else. Who can remember
a difference here? Leave thy project, Isaac, which thou must have undertaken half for love,
and I will make thee a great man in Ecbatana.' Little does he know of Isaac, and thou I believe
as little.

No sooner had the god of these idolaters gone down to his rest, and the friendly twilight come,
than I set forth for the palace of Hormisdas. Upon coming beneath the gallery, I waited not
long before thy brother appeared, and pointed out the way in which, through a low and private
entrance at a remote spot, I might reach an apartment where I should find him. Following his
directions, and accompanied by Hadad, I was received, at the specified place, by a slave of
the palace, who conducted me to Piso's presence. It was in one of his more private apartments,
but still sumptuously set out with every article of Persian luxury, in which I found myself
once more in company with thy brother, and where I ordered Hadad to display for his entertainment
the most curious and costly of the contents of his pack.

'I marvel chiefly, Roman,' I began by saying, 'at the ease with which I obtain an entrance
into the palace, and into thine own apartment. I had thought this to have been attended with
both difficulty and danger.'

'It is not without danger,' he replied; 'thou mayst lose thy head for this adventure. But this
risk I suppose thee to have weighed. Every one in Ecbatana knows Sapor and me--with what jealousy
I am guarded--and that the king will not flinch to keep his word, and take off any head that
meddles. But fear not. The king is old and weak, and though cruel as ever, forgets me as every
thing else. Besides, it is found that I am so good a Persian, that all strictness in the watch
has long since ceased. Half Ecbatana believe me more a Persian than a Roman--and in truth they
are right.'

'Thou hast not, Roman, forgotten thy country! Surely thou hast not, though suffering captivity,
ceased to love and long for thy native land. The Jew never forgets his. He lives indeed in
every corner and hole of the earth, but ever in the hope--'tis this that keeps his life--either
himself or through his children to dwell once more within the walls of Jerusalem, or among
the hills and valleys of Judea.'

'Where we are not loved nor remembered, we cannot love,' he bitterly replied. 'I loved Rome
once, more than I loved parent or kindred. The greatness and glory of Rome were to me infinitely
more than my own. For her--in my beardless youth--I was ready to lay down my life at any moment.
Nay, when the trial came, and the good Valerian set forth to redeem the East from the encroaching
power of Persia, I was not found wanting, but abandoned a home, than which there was not a
prouder nor happier within the walls of Rome, to take my chance with the emperor and my noble
father. The issue thou knowest. How has Rome remembered me, and the brave legions that with
me fell into the hands of these fierce barbarians? Even as Gallienus the son seemed to rejoice
in the captivity of his parent, so has Rome the mother seemed to rejoice in the captivity of
her children. Not an arm has she lifted, not a finger has she moved, to lighten the chains
of our bondage, or rescue us from this thraldom. Rome is no longer my country.'

'Consider, Roman,' I replied, 'in extenuation of thy country's fault, who it was that succeeded
the good Valerian--then the brief reign of virtuous Claudius, who died ere a single purpose
had time to ripen--and the hard task that has tied the hands of Aurelian on the borders of
Gaul and Germany. Have patience.'

'Dost thou not blush, old man,' he said, 'with that long gray beard of thine, and thy back
bent with years, to stand there the apologist of crime? If ingratitude and heartlessness are
to be defended, and numbered among the virtues, the reign of Arimanes has indeed begun. Such
is not the lesson, Jew, thy sacred books have taught thee. But a truce with this! Thy last
words this morning were, that thou hadst news for me. For Roman news I care not, nor will hear.
If thou canst tell me aught of family and friends, say on--although--O gods, that it should
be so!--even they seem to share the guilt of all. How many messengers have I bribed with gold,
more than thou hast ever seen, Jew, to bear my letters to Rome, and never a word has been returned
of good or evil. Canst thou tell me any thing of Portia my mother? or of Lucius Piso my brother?
Live they?'

'Do I not know them well?' I replied: 'who that dwells in Rome knows not the noble Portia?
She lives yet; and long may she live, the friend of all! To Jew, and even to Nazarene, she
is good, even as to her own. Never did age, or want, or helplessness, ask of her in vain. Years
have not stopped the fountains of her tears, nor chilled a single affection of her heart. And
dost thou think that while she remembers the outcast Jew, and the despised Nazarene, she forgets
her own offspring? Where is thy heart, Roman, to suppose it? Have I not heard her, many a time,
when I have been to solicit alms for some poor unfortunate of my tribe, run back upon the line
of years, and speak of the wars of Valerian, of the day when she parted from her great husband,
and her two sons, and of that dark day too when the news came that they were all fast in the
clutch of that foul barbarian, Sapor---and stood a silent and astonished witness of a love,
such as I never saw in any other, and which seemed so great as to be a necessary seed of death
to her frail and shattered frame? Of thee especially have I heard her descant as mothers will,
and tell one after another of all thy beauties, nay and of the virtues which bound her to thee
so, and of her trust so long cherished, that thou, more than either of her other sons, wouldst
live to sustain, and even bear up higher, the name of Piso.'

'My noble mother! was it so indeed?'

'How should it be otherwise? Is it any thing that thou hast not heard from her? Was she to
tempt herself the horrors of a Persian journey? Was she, in her age, to seek thee over the
sands of Asia? or thy brother? Especially when it was held in Rome not more certain that Valerian
was dead, than that thy father and thou wert also. The same messengers related both events.
No other news ever came from Ctesiphon. Was not one event as likely as the other? Did not both
rest upon the same authority? Was Portia alone, of all Rome, to give the lie to universal fame?
As for thy messengers, art thou so foolish as to believe that one ever crossed the desert,
or escaped the meshes set for him by the jealous and malignant Sapor?'

'It is enough, Jew--say no more.'

'But I have much more to say, or else be false to those who sent me.'

'Sent thee? who sent thee? Speak! do Portia then, and Lucius, know that I live? And art thou
here a messenger from them?'

'It is even so.'

Thy brother was greatly moved. At first he made as though he would have embraced me, but turned
and paced with quick and agitated steps the room.

I then related to him how we had in Rome first heard through that soldier a rumor of his being
yet alive--but at the same time, that he had renounced his country and become a Persian Satrap.
I told him of thy faith in him and of Portia's that he would never prove a recreant to his
country--of thy instant journey to Palmyra, with purpose to cross the desert thyself and risk
all the dangers of Ecbatana to accomplish his deliverance, and of the counsel of Gracchus,
which caused thee to make me a substitute.

'Lucius then,' he at length said, approaching me, 'is in Palmyra? Is it so?'

'It is,' I said. 'At least I left him there. He was to remain there, and learn the issue of
my attempt. If I perished, or failed in the endeavor to obtain thy freedom, then was it his
purpose himself to try--unless in the mean time he should learn through me, or otherwise, that
thou wert too wedded to Persia and to Persian customs, to consent to change them for Rome and
Roman ways.'

'Jew, thou seest that now I hesitate. Thou hast roused all the son, the brother, and something
of the Roman within me. I am drawn many ways. To Rome I will never return. Toward her, a resentment
burns deep within, which I know will close only with life itself. But toward Palmyra, my heart
yearns 'Twas Zenobia alone of all the world that ever moved for the rescue of Valerian: 'twas
she alone of all the world, who pitied our sorrows, and though she could not heal, avenged
them. Her image has been a dear source of consolation in this long captivity. I have eagerly
sought for all that could be obtained concerning her character, her acts, her policy, and the
state of her affairs. And often have I thought to slip my bonds and throw myself at her feet,
to serve with her, if need should be, either against Rome or Persia. But habit has prevailed,
and the generous friendship of Hormisdas, to keep me here. And why should I change this not
unpleasing certainty for the doubtful future that must await me in Palmyra? Here I am in the
very lap of luxury. I am, as I have said to thee, a man without wants. All countries, and climates,
and seas, and arts, minister to my pleasure. The learning of ancient and of modern times, you
see there piled upon shelves, to entertain my leisure, or task my hours of study. I am without
care--without the necessity of toil--with a palace, its slaves, and, I may add, its prince,
at my command. And beyond all this present reality, there is the prospect of every thing else
that Persia contains, upon the death of Sapor, which, in the course of nature, cannot be far
off, if violence do not anticipate that hour. Yet what thou now tellest me, renews my desire
of change. Lucius is in Palmyra--perhaps he would dwell there. 'Tis the home, I learn, of many
noble Romans. Who can say that Portia might not come and complete our happiness?'

And saying these things, he began to muse. He again paced with folded arms the long apartment.
I saw that he was still distracted by doubts. I knew of but one thing more to say, by which
to work upon his passionate nature. I resolved to say it, though I know not what thou wilt
think of it, nor what the event may be. There was, thou knowest, ere I left Palmyra, rumor
of war between Palmyra and Rome. Barely to name this, it seemed to me, would be on the instant
to fix his wavering mind. I could not withstand the temptation. But, Piso once in Palmyra,
and sure I am I shall be forgiven. I began again thus.

'Gracchus too, Roman; dost thou not remember the family of Gracchus? He also is in Palmyra.'

'Ay, I remember him well. A man of true nobility--now one of the Queen's chief advisers, and
head of the Senate. He had a daughter too, who, her mother dying young, was committed to the
care of Portia, and was as a sister. Does she live?--and dwells she in Palmyra?'

'She lives, and beneath her father's roof. Fame speaks loudly of her beauty and her wit, and
more loudly still of her young wisdom, and influence with the Queen. Her spirit is the counterpart
of Zenobia's. She is, notwithstanding her long Roman nurture, a Palmyrene of the truest stamp.
And ever since there have been these rumors of a war with Rome'--

'What sayst thou? What is that? War with Rome? Did I hear aright?'

'Verily thou didst. 'Twas the current report when I left Palmyra. It came both by the way of
Antioch and Alexandria. Nothing was talked of else. Ever since, I say--'

'Why hast thou not said this before? How shall I believe thee?'

'I said it not before, simply because I thought not of it. How was I to know what thou most
desiredst to hear? I can give thee no other ground of belief than common rumor. If my own opinion
will weigh aught, I may add, that for myself I have not a doubt that the report springs from
truth. When at Rome, it was commonly spoken of, and by those too whom I knew to be near the
emperor, that Aurelian felt himself aggrieved and insulted, that a woman should hold under
her dominion territories that once belonged to Rome, and who had wrested them from Rome by
defeat of Roman generals--and had sworn to restore the empire in the East as well as West,
to its ancient bounds. At Palmyra too I found those who were of deep intelligence in the politics
of the times, who felt sure of nothing more than that, what with the pride of Zenobia and the
ambition of Aurelian, war was inevitable. I tell thee these things as they fell upon my ear.
Before this, as I think, it is most likely that war may have broken out between the two nations.'

'Thou hast now spoken, Jew,' said Calpurnius. 'Hadst thou said these things at first, thou
hadst spared me much tormenting doubt. My mind is now bent and determined upon flight. This
it will not be difficult, I think, to accomplish. But what is thy plan?--for I suppose, coming
upon this errand, thou hast one well digested. But remember now, as I have already warned thee,
that thy head will answer for any failure: detection will be death.'

'Death is little to a Jew, who in dying dies for his country. And such would be my death. Whether
I live or die, 'tis for Jerusalem. Thy brother rewards me largely for this journey, and these
dangers I encounter; and if I perish, the double of the whole sum agreed upon is to be paid
according to certain directions left with him. I would rather live; but I shall not shrink
from death. But, Piso, detection shall not ensue. I have not lived to this age, to writhe upon
a Persian spear, or grin from over a Persian gateway. What I have devised is this. Thou seest
my slave Hadad?'

'I see him--an Ethiopian.'

'So he seems to thee. But his skin is white as thine. By an art, known only to me, it has been
changed to this ebon hue.'

'What follows?'

'This. Thou art to take his place, thy skin being first made to resemble his, while he is cleansed,
and remains in Ecbatana. We then, thou bearing my packages of merchandise, take our way, quietly
and in broad day-light, through the gates of Ecbatana. How sayst thou?'

'The invention is perfect. I cannot fear the result.

'So soon then as I shall have made some few preparations, for which to-morrow will suffice,
I shall be ready for the desert.'

I heard these words with joy. I now called to Hadad to open his cases of jewels, from which
I took a seal, having upon it the head of Zenobia, and offered it to Calpurnius. He seized
it with eagerness, having never before seen even so much as a drawing of the Great Queen. I
then drew forth thine own ring and gave him, with that locket containing the hair of Portia,
and thy letter. He received them with emotion; and as I engaged myself in re-packing my goods,
my quick ear caught tears falling upon the sheet as he read.

I then returned to the house of Levi.

Thus have I accomplished, successfully so far, my errand. I write these things to thee, because
a caravan leaves Ecbatana in the morning, and may reach Palmyra before ourselves; though it
is quite possible that we may overtake and join it. But we may also be delayed for many days.
So that it is right, in that case, thou shouldst hear.

       *       *       *       *       *

In these words, my Curtius, you have, for the most part, the letter of Isaac. I have omitted
many things which at another time you shall see. They are such as relate chiefly to himself
and his faith--abounding in cautions against that heretic Probus, who haunts his imagination
as if he were the very genius of evil.

How can I believe it, that within a few hours I may embrace a brother, separated so long, and
so long numbered with the dead? Yet how mixed the pleasure! He returns a brother, but not a
Roman. Nay, 'tis the expectation of war with Rome, that has gained him. I am perplexed and
sad, at the same time that I leap for joy. Fausta cannot conceal her satisfaction--yet she
pities me. Gracchus tells us to moderate our feelings and expectations, as the full cup is
often spilled. No more now--except this--that you fail not at once to send this letter to Portia.
Farewell!

Letter IX.

Several days have elapsed since I last wrote, yet Calpurnius is not arrived. I am filled with
apprehensions. I fear lest he may have thought too lightly of the difficulties of an escape,
and of the strictness with which he is watched; for while he seems to have held it an easy
matter to elude the vigilance of his keepers, common opinion at Ecbatana appears to have judged
very differently. Yet, after all, I cannot but rely with much confidence upon the discretion
and the cunning of Isaac. I must now relate what has happened in the mean time.

It was the morning after Isaac's letter had been received and read, that Milo presented himself,
with a countenance and manner indicative of some inward disturbance.

'And what,' I asked, 'may be the matter?'

'Enough is the matter, both for yourself and me,' he replied. 'Here now has been a wretch of
an Arab, a fellow of no appearance, a mere camel-driver, desiring to see you. I told him flatly
that you were not to be seen by scum such as he. I advised him to be gone, before he might
have to complain of a broken head. And what do you suppose was the burden of his errand? Why
truly to ask of the most noble Piso concerning his wife and child! I begged him to consider
whether, supposing you did know aught concerning them, you would deign to communicate with
a sun-baked beggar of the desert like him. Whereupon he raised a lance longer than a mast,
and would have run me through, but for the expertness with which I seized and wrested it from
him, and then broke it over his head. 'Twas the same scowling knave whose camels choked the
street the first day we entered the city, and who sent his curse after us. Hassan is his name.
His eye left a mark on me that's not out yet. A hyena's is nothing to it.'

Thus did he run on. I could have speared him as willingly as Hassan. It was plain that the
husband of the woman found in the desert by Isaac, hearing a rumor of intelligence received
by me, had been to obtain such information as possibly I might possess of his wife and child.
Upon asking my slave where the camel-driver now was, he replied that, 'Truly he did not know;
he had been driven from the court-yard with blows, and it was a mercy that his life was left
to him. He had been taught how again to curse Romans.'

It was in vain that I assured him once and again that he was no longer in the service of an
emperor, and that it was unnecessary to treat me with quite so much deference; his only regret
was that the robber had got off so easily. As the only reparation in my power for such stupidity
and inhumanity, I ordered Milo instantly to set forth in search of Hassan, in the quarter of
the city which the Arabs chiefly frequent, and finding him, to bring him to the house of Gracchus,
for I had news for him. This was little relished by Milo, and I could see, by the change of
his countenance, that his cowardly soul was ill-inclined to an encounter with the insulted
Arab, in the remote parts of the city, and unaccompanied by any of the slaves of the palace.
Nevertheless, he started upon his errand--but, as I afterward learned, bribed Hannibal to act
as life-guard.

Thinking that I might possibly fall in with him myself, and desirous, moreover, of an occupation
that should cause me to forget Calpurnius and my anxieties for a season, I went forth also,
taking the paths that first offered themselves. A sort of instinct drew me, as it almost always
does, to one of the principal streets of the city, denominated, from the size and beauty of
the trees which adorn it, the Street of Palms. This is an avenue which traverses the city in
its whole length; and at equal distances from its centre, and also running its whole length,
there shoots up a double row of palms, which, far above the roofs of the highest buildings,
spread out their broad and massy tufts of leaves, and perfectly protect the throngs below from
the rays of the blazing sun. Thus a deep shadow is cast upon the floor of the street, while
at the same time, it is unencumbered by the low branches, which on every other kind of tree
stretch out in all directions, and obstruct the view, taking away a greater beauty and advantage
than they give. This palm is not the date-bearing species, but of another sort, attaining a
loftier growth, and adorned with a larger leaf. A pity truly it is, that Rome cannot crown
itself with this princely diadem; but even though the bitter blasts from the Appennines did
not prevent, a want of taste for what is beautiful would. The Roman is a coarse form of humanity,
Curtius, compared with either the Greek or the Palmyrene. Romans will best conquer the world,
or defend it; but its adorning should be left to others. Their hands are rude, and they but
spoil what they touch. Since the days of Cicero, and the death of the Republic, what has Rome
done to advance any cause, save that of slavery and licentiousness? A moral Hercules is needed
to sweep it clean of corruptions, which it is amazing have not ere this drawn down the thunder
of the gods. Julia would say that Christ is that Hercules. May it be so!

Along the street which I had thus entered I slowly sauntered, observing the people who thronged
it, and the shops with their varieties which lined it. I could easily gather from the conversation
which now and then fell upon my ear--sometimes as I mingled with those who were observing a
fine piece of sculpture or a new picture exposed for sale, or examining the articles which
some hawker with much vociferation thrust upon the attention of those who were passing along,
or waiting at a fountain, while slaves in attendance served round in vessels of glass, water
cooled with snow and flavored with the juice of fruits peculiar to the East--that the arrival
of the ambassadors had caused a great excitement among the people, and had turned all thoughts
into one channel. Frequently were they gathered together in groups, around some of the larger
trees, or at the corners of the streets, or at the entrance of some conspicuous shop, to listen
to the news which one had to tell, or to arguments upon the all-engrossing theme with which
another sought to bring over those who would listen, to one or another side of the great question.
But I must confess that--save in a very few instances--the question was no question at all,
and had but one side. Those whom I heard, and who were listened to by any numbers, and with
any patience, were zealous patriots, inveighing bitterly against the ambition and tyranny of
Rome, and prognosticating national degradation, and ruin, and slavery, if once the policy of
concession to her demands was adopted.

'Palmyra,' they said, 'with Zenobia and Longinus at her head, the deserts around her, and Persia
to back her, might fearlessly stand against Rome and the world. Empire began in the East: it
had only wandered for a while to the West--losing its way. The East was its native seat, and
there it would return. Why should not Palmyra be what Assyria and Persia once were? What kingdom
of the world, and what age, could ever boast a general like Zabdas, a minister like Longinus,
a queen like the great Zenobia?' At such flights, the air would resound with the plaudits of
the listening crowd, who would then disperse and pursue their affairs, or presently gather
around some new declaimer.

I was greatly moved on several of these occasions, to make a few statements in reply to some
of the orators, and which might possibly have let a little light upon minds willing to know
the truth; but I doubted whether even the proverbially good-natured and courteous Palmyrenes
might not take umbrage at it. As I turned from one of these little knots of politicians, I
encountered Otho, a nobleman of Palmyra and one of the Queen's council. 'I was just asking
myself,' said I, saluting him, 'whether the temper of your people, even and forbearing as it
is, would allow a Roman in their own city to harangue them, who should not so much advocate
a side, as aim to impart truth.'

'Genuine Palmyrenes,' he answered, 'would listen with patience and civility. But, in a crowded
street, one can never answer for his audience. You see here not only Palmyrenes, but strangers
from all parts of the East--people from our conquered provinces and dependences, who feel politically
with the Palmyrene, but yet have not the manners of the Palmyrene. There is an Armenian, there
a Saracen, there an Arab, there a Cappadocian, there a Jew, and there an Egyptian--politically
perhaps with us, but otherwise a part of us not more than the Ethiopian or Scythian. The Senate
of Palmyra would hear all you might say--or the Queen's council--but not the street, I fear.
Nay, one of these idle boys, but whose patriotism is ever boiling over, might in his zeal and
his ignorance do that which should bring disgrace upon our good city. I should rather pray
you to forbear. But if you will extend your walk to the Portico which I have just left, you
will there find a more select crowd than jostles us where we stand, and perhaps ears ready
to hear you. All that you may say to divert the heart of the nation from this mad enterprise,
I shall be most grateful for. But any words which you may speak, or which a present god might
utter, would avail no more against the reigning frenzy, than would a palm leaf against a whirlwind
of the desert.'

As he uttered these words, with a voice somewhat elevated, several had gathered about us, listening
with eagerness to what the noble and respected Otho had to say. They heard him attentively,
shook their heads, and turned away--some saying: 'He is a good man, but timid.' Others scrupled
not to impute to him a 'Roman leaning.' When he had ended, seeing that a number had pressed
around, he hastily wished me a happy day, and moved down the street I bent my way toward the
Portico, ruminating the while upon the fates of empire.

I soon reached that magnificent structure, with its endless lines of columns. More than the
usual crowd of talkers, idlers, strangers, buyers and sellers, thronged its ample pavements.
One portion of it seems to be appropriated, at least abandoned, to those who have aught that
is rare and beautiful to dispose of. Before one column stands a Jew with antiquities raked
from the ruins of Babylon or Thebes--displaying their coins, their mutilated statuary, or half
legible inscriptions. At another, you see a Greek with some masterpiece of Zeuxis--nobody less--which
he swears is genuine, and to his oaths adds a parchment containing its history, with names
of men in Athens, Antioch and Alexandria, who attest it all. At the foot of another, sits a
dealer in manuscripts, remarkable either as being the complete works of distinguished authors,
or for the perfection of the art of the copyist, or for their great antiquity. Here were Manetho
and Sanchoniathon to be had perfect and complete! Not far from these stood others, who offered
sculptures, ancient and modern--vases of every beautiful form, from those of Egypt and Etruria,
to the freshly-wrought ones of our own Demetrius--and jewelry of the most rare and costly kinds.
There is scarce an article of taste, or valuable of any sort whatever, but may be found here,
brought from all parts of the world. In Persian, Indian, and Chinese rarities--which in Rome
are rarities indeed--I have dealt largely, and shall return with much to show you.

When, with some toil, I had won a passage through this busy mart, I mingled with a different
crowd. I passed from buyers and sellers among those who were, like myself, brought there merely
for the purpose of seeing others, of passing the time, and observing the beautiful effects
of this interminable Portico, with its moving and changing crowds robed in a thousand varieties
of the richest costume. It was indeed a spectacle of beauty, such as I never had seen before
nor elsewhere. I chose out point after point, and stood a silent and rapt observer of the scene.
Of the view from one of these points, I have purchased a painting, done with exquisite skill,
which I shall send to you, and which will set before you almost the living reality.

To this part of the Portico those resort who wish to hear the opinions of the day upon subjects
of politics or literature, or philosophy, or to disseminate their own. He who cherishes a darling
theory upon any branch of knowledge, and would promulgate it, let him come here, and he will
find hearers at least. As I walked along, I was attracted by a voice declaiming with much earnestness
to a crowd of hearers, and who seemed as I drew near to listen with attention, some being seated
upon low blocks of marble arranged among the columns of the Portico for this purpose, others
leaning against the columns themselves, and others standing on the outside of the circle. The
philosopher--for such I perceived him at once to be--was evidently a Greek. He was arrayed
in a fashionable garb, with a robe much like our toga thrown over his shoulders, and which
he made great use of in his gesticulations. A heavy chain of gold was wound around his neck,
and then crossing several times his breast, hung down in artificially-arranged festoons. A
general air of effeminacy produced in the hearer at once a state of mind not very favorably
disposed to receive his opinions. The first words I caught were these: 'In this manner,' said
he, 'did that wonderful genius interpret the universe. 'Tis not credible that any but children
and slaves should judge differently. Was there once nothing? Then were there nothing now. But
there is something now, We see it. The world is. Then it has always been. It is an eternal
Being. It is infinite. Ha! can you escape me now? Say, can there be two infinites? Then where
are your gods? The fabled creator or creators--be they many or one--of the universe? Vanished,
I fancy, at the touch of my intellectual wand, into thin air. Congratulate yourselves upon
your freedom. The Egyptians had gods, and you know what they were. The Greeks had gods, and
you know what they were. Those nations grovelled and writhed under their partly childish, partly
terrific, and partly disgusting superstitions. Happy that the reality of divine natures can,
so easily as I have now done it, be disproved! The superincumbent gloom is dispersed. Light
has broken through. And so too, touching the immortality of the soul. Immortality of the soul!
Did any one of you ever see a soul? I should like to have that question answered:'--he swung
defyingly his robe and paused--'did any one ever see a soul! Yes, and that it was immortal,
too! You see a body, and therefore you believe in it. You see that it is mortal and therefore
you believe in its mortality. You do not see the soul--therefore you believe in one? Is that
your reasoning? How plain the argument is! When the god or gods--suppose their being--shall
send down and impart to me the astounding fact that I am not one, as I seem, but two--am not
mortal, as I seem, but immortal--do not melt into dust at death, but rise in spirit--then will
I believe such things, not otherwise. Have we knowledge of any other existences--elemental
existences--than corporeal atoms? None. These constitute the human being. Death is their separation,
and that separation means the end of the being they once did constitute. But it may all be
summed up in a word. When you can see and touch your own soul, as you do see and touch your
body, believe in it. Deny and reject this principle, and the world will continue to suffer
from its belief in gorgons, demons, spectres, gods, and monsters; in Tartarean regions and
torments of damned spirits. Adopt it, and life flows undisturbed by visionary fears, and death
comes as a long and welcome sleep, upon which no terrors and no dreams intrude.'

Such was the doctrine, and such nearly the language of the follower of Epicurus. You will easily
judge how far he misrepresented the opinions of that philosopher. As I turned away from this
mischievous dealer in Cimmerian darkness, I inquired of one who stood near me who this great
man might be.

'What,' said he, in reply, 'do you not know Critias the Epicurean? You must be a stranger in
Palmyra. Do you not see, by the quality of his audience, that he leads away with him all the
fine spirits of the city? Observe how the greater number of these who hang upon his lips resemble,
in their dress and air, the philosopher.'

'I see it is so. It seems as if all the profligates and young rakes of Palmyra--of the nobler
sort--were assembled here to receive some new lessons in the art of self-destruction.'

'Many a philosopher of old would, I believe,' he rejoined, 'have prayed that his system might
perish with himself, could he have looked forward into futurity, and known how it would be
interpreted and set forth by his followers. The temperate and virtuous Epicurus little thought
that his name and doctrine would in after times be the rallying point for the licentious and
dissolute. His philosophy was crude enough, and mischievous I grant in its principles and tendencies.
But it was promulgated, I am sure, with honest intentions, and he himself was not aware of
its extreme liability to misapprehension and perversion. How would his ears tingle at what
we have now heard!'

'And would after all deserve it,' I replied. 'For he, it seems to me, is too ignorant of human
nature, to venture upon the office of teacher of mankind, who believes that the reality of
a superintending providence can be denied with safety to the world. A glance at history, and
the slightest penetration into human character, would have shown him, that atheism, in any
of its forms, is incompatible with the existence of a social state.'

'What you say is very true,' replied the Palmyrene; 'I defend only the intentions and personal
character of Epicurus, not his real fitness for his office. This Critias, were it not for the
odiousness of any interference with men's opinions, I should like to see driven from our city
back to his native Athens, Listen now as he lays down the method of a happy life. See how these
young idlers drink in the nectarean stream. But enough. I leave them in their own stye. Farewell!
Pray invite the philosopher to visit you at Rome, We can spare him.'

Saying this, he turned upon his heel and went his way. I also passed on. Continuing my walk
up the Portico, I perceived at a little distance another dark mass of persons, apparently listening
with profound attention to one who was addressing them. Hoping to hear some one discoursing
upon the condition of the country and its prospects, I joined the circle. But I was disappointed.
The orator was a follower of Plato, and a teacher of his philosophy. His aim seemed to be to
darken the minds of his hearers by unintelligible refinements, at least such I thought the
effect must be. He clothed his thoughts--if thoughts there really were any--in such a many-colored
cloud of poetic diction, that the mind, while it was undoubtedly excited, received not a single
clear idea, but was left in a pleasing, half-bewildered state, with visions of beautiful divine
truth floating before it, which it in vain attempted to arrest, and convert to reality. All
was obscure, shadowy, impalpable. Yet was he heard with every testimony of reverence, on the
part of his audience. They evidently thought him original and profound, in proportion as he
was incomprehensible. I could not help calling to mind the remark of the Palmyrene who had
just parted from me. It is difficult to believe that Plato himself labored to be obscure, though
some affirm it. I would rather believe that his great mind, always searching after truth at
the greatest heights and lowest depths, often but partially seized it, being defeated by its
very vastness; yet, ambitious to reveal it to mankind, he hesitated not to exhibit it in the
form and with the completeness he best could. It was necessary, therefore, that what he but
half knew himself, should be imperfectly and darkly stated, and dimly comprehended by others.
For this reason, his writings are obscure--obscure, not because of truths for their vastness
beyond the reach of our minds, but because they abound in conceptions but half formed--in inconsequential
reasonings--in logic overlaid and buried beneath a poetic phraseology. They will always be
obscure, in spite of the labors of the commentators; or, a commentary can make them plain only
by substituting the sense of the critic for the no-sense of the original. But Plato did not
aim at darkness. And could his spirit have listened to the jargon which I had just heard proclaimed
as Platonism, consisting of common-place thoughts, laboriously tortured and involved, till
their true semblance was lost, and instead of them a wordy mist--glowing indeed oftentimes
with rainbow colors--was presented to the mind of the hearer for him to feed upon, he would
at the moment have as heartily despised, as he had formerly gloried in, the name and office
of philosopher.

I waited not to learn the results at which this great master of wisdom would arrive, but quickly
turned away, and advanced still farther toward the upper termination of the Portico. The numbers
of those who frequented this vast pile diminished sensibly at this part of it. Nevertheless,
many were still like myself wandering listlessly around. Quite at the extremity of the building
I observed however a larger collection than I had noticed before; and, as it appeared to me,
deeply absorbed by what they heard. I cared not to make one of them, having had enough of philosophy
for the day. But as I stood not far from them, idly watching the labors of the workmen who
were carrying up the column of Aurelian--noting how one laid the stone which another brought,
and how another bore along and up the dizzy ladders the mortar which others tempered, and how
the larger masses of marble were raised to their places by machines worked by elephants, and
how all went on in exact order--while I stood thus, the voice of the speaker frequently fell
upon my ear, and at last, by its peculiarity, and especially by the unwonted 4 earnestness
of the tone, drew me away to a position nearer the listening crowd. By the words which I now
distinctly caught, I discovered that it was a Christian who was speaking. I joined the outer
circle of hearers, but the preacher--for so the Christians term those who declare their doctrines
in public--was concealed from me by a column. I could hear him distinctly, and I could see
the faces, with their expressions, of those whom he addressed. The greater part manifested
the deepest interest and sympathy with him who addressed them, but upon the countenances of
some sat scorn and contempt--ridicule, doubt, and disbelief. As the voice fell upon my ear,
in this my nearer position, I was startled. 'Surely,' I said, 'I have heard it before, and
yet as surely I never before heard a Christian preach.' The thought of Probus flashed across
my mind; and suddenly changing my place--and by passing round the assembly, coming in front
of the preacher--I at once recognised the pale and melancholy features of the afflicted Christian.
I was surprised and delighted. He had convinced me, at the few interviews I had had with him,
that he was no common man, and I had determined to obtain from him, if I should ever meet him
again, all necessary knowledge of the Christian institutions and doctrine. Although I had learned
much, in the mean time, from both Julia and the Hermit, still there was much left which I felt
I could obtain, probably in a more exact mariner, from Probus. I was rejoiced to see him. He
was evidently drawing to the close of his address. The words which I first caught, were nearly
these:

'Thus have I declared to you, Palmyrenes, Romans, and whoever are here? how Christianity seeks
the happiness of man, by securing his virtue. Its object is your greater well-being through
the truths it publishes and enforces. It comes to your understandings, not to darken and confound
them by words without meaning, but to shed light upon them by a revelation of those few sublime
doctrines of which I have now discoursed to you. Has the Greek, the Roman, or the Persian philosophy,
furnished your minds with truths like these? Has life a great object, or death an issue of
certainty and joy, under either of those systems of faith? Systems of faith! I blush to term
them so. I am a Roman, the son of a priest of the temple of Jupiter. Shall I reveal to you
the greater and the lesser mysteries of that worship? I see by most expressive signs that it
cannot be needful. Why then, if ye yourselves know and despise the popular worship, why will
you not consider the claims of Jesus of Nazareth?'

'I despise it not,' cried a voice from the throng, 'I honor it.'

'In every nation,' continued the preacher, 'and among all worshippers, are there those whom
God will accept The sincere offering of the heart will never be refused. Socrates, toiling
and dying in the cause of truth--though that truth, in the light of the Gospel, were error--is
beloved of God. But if God has in these latter days announced new truth, if he has sent a special
messenger to teach it, or if it be asserted by persons of intelligence and apparent honesty
that he has, ought not every sincere lover of truth and of God, or the gods, to inquire diligently
whether it be so or not? Socrates would have done so. Search, men of Palmyra, into the certainty
of these things. These many years has the word of Christ been preached in your streets, yet
how few followers can as yet be counted of him who came to bless you! Sleep no longer. Close
not the ear against the parent voice of the Gospel Fear not that the religion of Jesus comes
to reign over aught but your hearts. It asks no dominion over your temporal affairs. It cares
not for thrones, nor the sword, nor princely revenues, nor seats of honor. It would serve you,
not rule over you. And the ministers of Christ are your servants in spiritual things, seeking
not yours, but you.'

'Paul! Paul of Antioch!' shouted several voices at once.

'I defend not Paul of Antioch,' cried Probus, no ways disconcerted. 'Judge Christianity, I
pray you, not by me, nor by Paul, but by itself. Because a fool lectures upon the philosophy
of Plato, you do not therefore condemn Plato for a fool. Because a disciple of Zeno lives luxuriously,
you do not for that take up a judgment against the philosopher himself. Paul of Samosata, not
in his doctrine, but in his life, is an alien, a foreigner, an adversary, and no friend or
servant of Jesus. Listen, citizens of Palmyra, while I read to you what the founder of Christianity
himself says touching this matter!' and he drew from beneath his robe a small parchment roll,
and turning to the part he sought, read in a loud voice words of Jesus such as these: 'He that
is greatest among you shall be your servant. Whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased,
and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted.' 'This is the doctrine of Christ. According
to Jesus, "he among his disciples is greatest, who performs for others the most essential service."'
He then turned to another part of the book, and read a long, and as it struck me beautiful
passage, in which the author of Christianity was represented as stooping and washing the feet
of his disciples, to enforce in a more lively way his doctrine of humility and philanthropy.
When he had finished it, a deep silence had fallen upon those who listened. It was broken by
the voice of Probus once more saying in low and sorrowful tones: 'I confess--with grief and
shame I confess--that pride, and arrogance, and the lust of power, are already among the ministers
of Jesus. They are sundering themselves from their master, and thrusting a sword into the life
of his Gospel. And if this faith of Christ should ever--as a prophetic eye sees it so sure
to do--fill the throne of the world, and sit in Caesar's place, may the God who gave it appear
for it, that it perish not through the encumbering weight of earthly glory. Through tribulation
and persecution it has held on its way without swerving. Prosperity begins already to weaken
and defile----'

What more Probus would have added, I know not; for at this point an unusual disturbance arose
in the streets. Trumpets sent forth their long peal, and a troop of out-riders, as accompanying
some great personage, rode rapidly along, followed by the crowd of idle lookers-on. And immediately
a chariot appeared, with a single individual seated in it, who seemed to take great pleasure
in his own state. No sooner had the pageant arrived over against that part of the Portico where
we stood, than one and another of Probus's hearers exclaimed:

'Ha! Paul! Paul of Antioch! Behold a Christian servant!' And the whole throng turned away in
confusion to watch the spectacle.

'An unhappy commentary upon the doctrine,' said a Palmyrene to me, as he turned sneeringly away.

'What say you to this?' asked another, of Probus himself, as he descended from his rostrum,
and stood gazing with the rest, but with a burning cheek and downcast eye.

'I say,' he replied, 'what I have said before, that yonder bishop, however christianized his
head may be is a misbeliever in his heart. He is a true anti-Christ.'

'I am disposed to trust you,' rejoined the other. 'I have heard you not without emotion. We
have had among us many who have declared the doctrine of Christ. But I have heeded them not,
It is different with me now. I am desirous to know what this doctrine of Christ is. I have
been impressed by what you recited from the writings of Jesus. How, Christian, shall I apply
myself, and where, to learn more than I know now?'

'If thou wilt learn of so humble a teacher as I am,--who yet know somewhat of what Christianity
really is--come and hear me at the place of Christian worship in the street that runs behind
the great Persian Inn. There, this evening when the sun is down, shall I preach again the truth
in Christ.'

'I shall not fail to be there,' said the other, and moved away.

'Nor shall I, Probus,' said I, heartily saluting him.

'Noble Piso!' he cried, his countenance suddenly growing bright as the sun, 'I am glad to meet
you at length. And have you too heard a Christian preach? A senator of Rome?'

'I have; and I shall gladly hear more. I am not, however, a Christian, Probus; I profess to
be but a seeker after truth, if perhaps it may be found in your faith, having failed to discover
it among dead or living philosophers. I shall hear you to-night.'

After many mutual inquiries concerning each other's welfare, we separated.

Upon returning to the house of Gracchus, and finding myself again in the company of Fausta
and her father, I said: 'I go to-night to hear a Christian, the Christian Probus, discourse
concerning the Christian doctrine. Will you accompany me, Fausta?'

'Not now, Lucius,' she replied; 'my head and heart are too full of the interests and cares
of Zenobia, to allow me to think of aught else. No other reason, I assure you, prevents. I
have no fears of the opinions of others to hinder me. When our public affairs are once more
in a settled state, I shall not be slow to learn more of the religion of which you speak. Julia's
attachment to it, of itself, has almost made a convert of me already, so full of sympathy in
all things is a true affection. But the heart is a poor logician. It darts to its object, overleaping
all reasons, and may as well rest in error as truth. Whatever the purity of Julia and the honesty
and vigor of Zenobia accept and worship, I believe I should, without further investigation,
though they were the fooleries and gods of Egypt, Did you succeed in your search of the Arab?'

'No: but perhaps Milo has. To tell the truth, I was soon diverted from that object, first by
the excitement I found prevailing among the people on the affairs of the kingdom, and afterward
by the spectacles of the Portico, and the preaching of Probus, whom. I encountered there.'

In the evening, soon as the sun was set, I wound my way to the Christians' place of worship.

It was in a part of the city remote and obscure, indicating very plainly that whatever Christianity
may be destined to accomplish in this city, it has done little as yet. Indeed, I do not perceive
what principle of strength or power it possesses, sufficient to force its way through the world,
and into the hearts of men. It allows not the use of the sword; it resorts not to the civil
arm; it is devoid of all that should win upon the senses of the multitude, being, beyond all
other forms of faith, remarkable for its simplicity, for its spiritual and intellectual character.
Moreover, it is stern and uncompromising in its morality, requiring the strictest purity of
life, and making virtue to consist not in the outward act, but in the secret motive which prompts
the act. It is at open and unintermitting war with all the vain and vicious inclinations of
the heart. It insists upon an undivided sovereignty over the whole character and life of the
individual. And in return for such surrender, it bestows no other reward than an inward consciousness
of right action, and of the approbation of God, with the hope of immortality. It seems thus
to have man's whole nature, and all the institutions of the world, especially of other existing
religions, to contend with. If it prevail against such odds, and with such means as it alone
employs, it surely will carry along with it its own demonstration of its divinity. But how
it shall have power to achieve such conquests, I now cannot see nor conjecture.

Arriving at the place designated by Probus, I found a low building of stone, which seemed to
have been diverted from former uses of a different kind, to serve its present purpose as a
temple of religious worship. Passing through a door, of height scarce sufficient to admit a
person of ordinary stature, I reached a vestibule, from which by a descent of a few steps I
entered a large circular apartment, low but not inelegant, with a vaulted ceiling supported
by chaste Ionic columns. The assembly was already seated, but the worship not begun. The service
consisted of prayers to God, offered in the name of Christ; of reading a portion of the sacred
books of the Christians, of preaching, of music sung to religious words, and voluntary offerings
of money or other gifts for the poor.

I cannot doubt that you are repelled, my Curtius, by this account of a worship of such simplicity
as to amount almost to poverty. But I must tell you that never have I been so overwhelmed by
emotions of the noblest kind, as when sitting in the midst of these despised Nazarenes, and
joining in their devotions; for to sit neuter in such a scene, it was not in my nature to do,
nor would it have been in yours, much as you affect to despise this 'superstitious race.' This
was indeed worship. It was a true communion of the creature with the Creator. Never before
had I heard a prayer. How different from the loud and declamatory harangues of our priests!
the full and rich tones of the voice of Probus, expressive of deepest reverence of the Being
he addressed, and of profoundest humility on the part of the worshipper, seeming too as if
uttered in no part by the usual organs of speech, but as if pronounced by the very heart itself,
fell upon the charmed ear like notes from another world. There was a new and strange union,
both in the manner of the Christian and in the sentiments he expressed, of an awe such as I
never before witnessed in man towards the gods, and a familiarity and child-like confidence,
that made me feel as if the God to whom he prayed was a father and a friend, in a much higher
sense than we are accustomed to regard the Creator of the universe. It was a child soliciting
mercies from a kind and considerate parent--conscious of much frailty and ill desert, but relying
too with a perfect trust, both upon the equity and benignity of the God of his faith. I received
an impression also from the quiet and breathless silence of the apartment, from the low and
but just audible voice of the preacher, of the near neighborhood of gods and men, of the universal
presence of the infinite spirit of the Deity, which certainly I had never received before.
I could hardly divest myself of the feeling that the God addressed was in truth in the midst
of the temple; and I found my eye turning to the ceiling, as if there must be some visible
manifestation of his presence. I wish you could have been there. I am sure that after witnessing
such devotions, contempt or ridicule would be the last emotions you would ever entertain toward
this people. Neither could you any longer apply to them the terms fanatic, enthusiast, or superstitious.
You would have seen a calmness, a sobriety, a decency, so remarkable; you would have heard
sentiments so rational, so instructive, so exalted, that you would have felt your prejudices
breaking away and disappearing without any volition or act of your own. Nay, against your will
they would have fallen. And nothing would have been left but the naked question--not is this
faith beautiful and worthy--but is this religion true or false?

When the worship had been begun by prayer to God in the name of Christ, then one of the officiating
priests opened the book of the Christians, the Gospels, and read from the Greek, in which they
are written--changing it into the Palmyrene dialect as he read--diverse passages, some relating
to the life of Jesus, and others which were extracts of letters written by apostles of his
to individuals or churches, to which I listened with attention and pleasure. When this was
over, Probus rose, standing upon a low platform like the rostrums from which our lawyers plead,
and first reading a sentence from the sayings of Paul, an apostle of Jesus, of which this was
the substance, 'Jesus came into the world, bringing life and immortality to light,' he delivered,
with a most winning and persuasive beauty, a discourse, or oration, the purpose of which was
to show, that Jesus was sent into the world to bring to light or make plain the true character
and end of the life on earth, and also the reality and true nature of a future existence. In
doing this, he exposed--but in a manner so full of the most earnest humanity that no one could
be offended--the errors of many of the philosophers concerning a happy life, and compared with
the greatest force their requisitions with those of the gospel, 'as he termed his religion;
showing what unworthy and inadequate conceptions had prevailed as to what constitutes a man
truly great, and good, and happy. Then he went on to show, that it was such a life only as
he had described that could make a being like man worthy of immortality; that although Jesus
had proved the reality of a future and immortal existence, yet he had, with even more importunity,
and earnestness, and frequency, laid down his precepts touching a virtuous life on earth. He
finally went into the Christian argument in proof of a future existence, and exhorted those
who heard him, and who desired to inhabit the Christian's heaven, to live the life which Christ
had brought to light, and himself had exemplified on earth, laboring to impress their minds
with the fact, that it was a superior goodness which made Jesus what he was, and that it must
be by a similar goodness that his followers could fit themselves for the immortality he had
revealed. All this was with frequent reference to existing opinions and practices, and with
large illustrations drawn from ancient and modern religious history.

What struck me most, after having listened to the discourse of Probus to the end, was the practical
aim and character of the religion he preached. It was no fanciful speculation nor airy dream.
It was not a plaything of the imagination he had been holding up to our contemplation, but
a series of truths and doctrines bearing with eminent directness, and with a perfect adaptation,
upon human life, the effect and issue of which, widely and cordially received, must be to give
birth to a condition of humanity not now any where to be found on the earth. I was startled
by no confounding and overwhelming mysteries; neither my faith nor my reason was burdened or
offended; but I was shown, as by a light from heaven, how truly the path which leads to the
possession and enjoyment of a future existence coincides with that which conducts to the best
happiness of earth. It was a religion addressed to the reason and the affections; and evidence
enough was afforded in the representations given of its more important truths, that it was
furnished with ample power to convince and exalt the reason, to satisfy and fill the affections.
No sooner shall I have returned to the leisure of my home, to my study and my books, than I
shall seriously undertake an examination of the Christian argument. It surely becomes those
who fill the place in the social state which I do, to make up an intelligent judgment upon
a question like this, so that I may stand prepared to defend it, and urge it upon my countrymen,
if I am convinced of its truth and of its advantage to my country, or assail and oppose it,
if I shall determine it to be what it is so frequently termed, a pernicious and hateful superstition.

When the discourse was ended, of the power and various beauty of which I cannot pretend properly
to acquaint you, another prayer longer and more general was offered, to parts of which there
were responses by the hearers. Then, as a regular part of the service, voluntary offerings
and gifts were made by those present for the poor. More than once, as a part of the worship,
hymns were sung to some plain and simple air, in which all the assembly joined. Sometimes,
to the services which I witnessed, Probus informed me there is added a further ceremony, called
the 'Lord's supper,' being a social service, during which bread and wine are partaken of, in
memory of Jesus Christ. This was the occasion, in former times, of heavy charges against the
Christians of rioting and intemperance, and even of more serious crimes. But Probus assures
me that the last were even then groundless, and that now nothing can be more blameless than
this simple spiritual repast.

The worship being ended, and Probus having descended from his seat, I accosted him, giving
him what I am certain were very sincere thanks for the information I had obtained from his
oration, concerning the primary articles of the Christian faith.

'It has been,' said he in reply, 'with utmost satisfaction, that I beheld a person of your
rank and intelligence among my hearers. The change of the popular belief throughout the Roman
empire, which must come, will be a less tumultuous one, in proportion as we can obtain even
so much as a hearing from those who sit at the head of society in rank and intelligence. Let
me make a sincere convert of a Roman emperor, and in a few years the temples of Paganism would
lie even with the ground. Believe me, Christianity has penetrated deeper and farther, than
you in the seats of power dream of. While you are satisfied with things as they are, and are
content to live on and enjoy the leisure and honors the gods crown you with, the classes below
you, less absorbed by the things of the world--because perhaps having fewer of them,--give
their thoughts to religion and the prospects which it holds out of a happier existence after
the present. Having little here, they are less tied to the world than others, and more solicitous
concerning the more and the better, of which Christianity speaks.'

'I am not insensible,' I replied, 'to the truth of what you say. The cruelties, moreover, exercised
by the emperors toward the Christians, the countless examples of those who have died in torments
for the truth of this religion, have drawn largely and deeply upon the sympathy of the general
heart, and disposed it favorably toward belief. In Rome, surrounded by ancient associations,
embosomed in a family remarkable for its attachment to the ancient order of things; friends
of power, of letters, and philosophy, I hardly was conscious of the existence of such a thing
as Christianity. The name was never heard where I moved. Portia, my noble mother, with a heart
beating warm for every thing human, instinctively religious beyond any whom I have ever seen
or known, of the Christian or any other faith, living but to increase the happiness of all
around her, was yet--shall I say it?--a bigot to the institutions of her country. The government
and the religion under which all the Pisos had lived and flourished, which had protected the
rights and nursed the virtues of her great husband and his family, were good enough for her,
for her children, and for all. Her ear was closed against the sound of Christianity, as naturally
as an adder's against all sound. She could not, and never did hear it. From her I received
my principles and first impressions. Not even the history, nor so much as a word of the sufferings,
of the Christians ever fell on my ear. I grew up in all things a Piso; the true child of my
mother, in all save her divine virtues. And it was not till a few years since, when I broke
loose from domestic and Roman life, and travelled to Greece and Egypt, and now to the East,
that I became practically aware of the existence of such a people as the Christians; and my
own is, I suppose, but a specimen of the history of my order. I now perceive, that while we
have slept, truth has been advancing its posts, till the very citadel of the world is about
to be scaled. The leaven of Christianity is cast into the lump, and will work its necessary
end. It now, I apprehend, will matter but little what part the noble and the learned shall
take, or even the men in power. The people have taken theirs, and the rest must follow, at
least submit. Do I over-estimate the inroads of the religion upon the mind and heart of the world?'

'I am persuaded you do not,' replied the Christian. Give me, as I said before, one Roman emperor
for a convert, and I will insure the immediate and final triumph of Christianity. But in the
mean time, another Nero, another Domitian, another Decius, may arise, and the bloody acts of
other persecutions stain the annals of our guilty empire.'

'The gods forbid!' said I; yet who shall say it may not be! Much as I honor Aurelian for his
many virtues, I feel not sure that in the right hands he might not be roused to as dark deeds
as any before him--darker they would be--inasmuch as his nature for sternness and severity
has not, I think, been equalled. If the mild and just Valerian could be so wrought upon by
the malignant Macrianus, what security have we in the case of Aurelian? He is naturally superstitious.'

'O that in Aurelian,' said the Christian, 'were lodged the woman's heart of Zenobia!--we then
could trust to-morrow as well as enjoy to-day. Here no laws seal the lips of the Christian:
he may tell his tale to as many as choose to hear. I learn, since my arrival, that the Princess
Julia is favorably inclined toward the Christian cause. Dost thou know what the truth may be?'

'It is certain that she admires greatly the character and the doctrine of Christ, and I should
think, believes; but she does not as yet openly confess herself a follower of the Nazarene.
She is perhaps as much a Christian as Zenobia is a Jewess.'

'I may well rejoice in that,' replied the Christian, 'yes, and do.'

The lights of the apartment were now extinguished, and we parted.

If I am ever again in Rome, my Curtius, it shall be my care to bring to your acquaintance and
Lucilia's, the Christian Probus. Farewell!

Note.

Some readers may be pleased to be able to compare together the representations of Piso and
those of Pollio.

"Et quidem peregrina, nomine Zenobia, de qua jam multa dicta sunt, quae se de Cleopatrarum.
Ptolemaeorumque gente jactaret, post Odenatum maritum imperiali sagulo perfuso per humeros
habitu, donis ornata, diademate etiam accepto, nomine filiorum Herenniani et Timolai diutius
quam faemineus sexus patiebatur, imperavit. Si quidem Gallieno adhuc regente Remp. regale mulier
superba munus obtinuit; et Claudio bellis Gotthicis occupato, vix denique ab Aureliano victa
et triumphata, concessit in jura Rom." "Vixit (Zenobia) regali pompa, more magis Persico. Adorata
est more regum Persarum. Convivata est imperatorum, more Rom. Ad conciones galeata processit,
cum limbo purpureo, gemmis dependentibus per ultimam fimbriam media etiam cyclade veluti fibula
muliebri astricta, brachio saepe nudo. Fuit vultu subaquilo fusci coloris, oculis supra modum
[Footnote: Ingentibus.] vigentibus, nigris, spiritus divini, venustatis incredibilis; tantus
candor in dentibus, ut margaritas eam plerique putarent habere, non dentes. Vox clara et virilis;
severitas, ubi necessitas postulabat, tyrannorum; bonorum principum clementia, ubi pietas requirebat.
Larga prudenter, conservatrix thesaurorum ultra faemineum modum. Usa vehiculo carpentario,
raro pilento, equo saepius. Fertur autem vel tria, vel quatuor milliaria frequenter eam peditibus
ambulasse. Nata est Hispanoram Cupiditate; bibit saepe cum ducibus, quum esset alias sobria;
bibit etiam cum Persis atque Armeniis, ut eos vinceret. Usa est vasis aureis gemmatis ad convivia,
quibus et Cleopatra usa est. In ministerio Eunuchos, gravioris aetatis habuit, puellas nimis
raras. Filios Latine loqui jusserat, adeo ut Graece vel difficile vel raro loquerentur. Ipsa
Latini sermonis non usquequaque ignara, sed loqueretur pudore cobibita; loquebatur et Egyptiace
ad perfectum modum. Historiae Alexandrinae atque Orientalis ita perita ut eam epitomasse hicatur:
Latinam autem Graece legerat." "Ducta est igitur per triumphum ea specie ut nihil pompabilius
populo Rom. vederetur, jam primum ornata gemmis ingentibus, ita at ornamentorum onere laboraret.
Fertur enim mulier fortissima saepissime restitisse, quum diceret se gemmorum onera ferre non
posse. Vincti erant preterea pedes auro, manus etiam catenis aureis; nec collo aureum vinculum
deerat, quod scurra Persicus praeferebat. Huic ab Aureliano vivere concessum est. Ferturque
vixisse cum liberis, matronae jam more Romanae, data sibi possessione in Tiburti quae hodieque
Zenobia dicitur, non longe ab Adriani palatio, atque ab eo loco cui nomen est Conche."--Hist.
Aug. Lugd. Batav. 1661, p. 787.

"Ille (Odenatus) plane cum uxore Zenobia non solum Orientem quem jam in pristinum reformaverat
statum, sed omnes omnino totius orbis partes reformasset, vir acer in bellis, et, quantum plerique
scriptores loquuntur, venatu memorabili semper inclytus, qui a prima aetate capiendis leonibus
et pardis, cervis, caeterisque sylvestribus animalibus, sudorem officii virilis impendit, quique
semper in sylvis ac montibus vixit, perferens calorem, pluvias, et omnia mala que in se continent
venatoriae voluptates; quibus duratis, solem ac pulverem in bellis Persicis tulit. Non aliter
etiam conjuge assueta, quae multorum sententia fortior marito fuisse perhibetur; mulierum omnium
nobilissima, Orientalium faeminarum et (ut Cornelius Capitolinus asserit) speciocissima."---Ib.
p. 771

Also what Aurelian himself says in a letter to the Roman Senate, preserved by Pollio.

"Audio, P. C. mihi objici quod non virile munus impleverim, Zenobiam triumphando. Nae illi
qui me reprehendunt satis laudarant, si scirent qualis ilia est mulier, quam prudens in consiliis,
quam constans in dispositionibus, quam erga milites gravis, quam larga quum necessitas postulet,
quam tristis quum severitas poscat. Possum dicere illiusesse quod Odenatus Persos vicit, ac
Sapore fugato Ctesiphontem usque pervenit. Possum asserere, tanto apud Orientalis et Egyptiorum
populos timori mulierem fuisse, ut se non Arabes, non Sarraceni, non Armeni commoverent. Nec
ego illi vitam conservassem nisi eam scissem multum Rom. Repub. profuisse, quurn sibi, vel
liberis suis Orientis servaret imperium," etc.

Zenobia; or, The Fall of Palmyra.

In Letters of L. Manlius Piso, from Palmyra, to His Friend Marcus Curtius at Rome.

By William Ware

Zenobia.

Vol. II

Letter X.

As I returned from the worship of the Christians to the house of Gracchus, my thoughts wandered
from the subjects which had just occupied my mind to the condition of the country, and the
prospect now growing more and more portentous of an immediate rupture with Rome. On my way
I passed through streets of more than Roman magnificence, exhibiting all the signs of wealth,
taste, refinement, and luxury. The happy, light-hearted populace were moving through them,
enjoying at their leisure the calm beauty of the evening, or hastening to or from some place
of festivity. The earnest tone of conversation, the loud laugh, the witty retort, the merry
jest, fell upon my ear from one and another as I passed along. From the windows of the palaces
of the merchants and nobles, the rays of innumerable lights streamed across my path, giving
to the streets almost the brilliancy of day; and the sound of music, either of martial instruments,
or of the harp accompanied by the voice, at every turn arrested my attention, and made me pause
to listen.

A deep melancholy came over me. It seemed to me that the days of this people were numbered,
and that the gods intending their ruin had first made them mad. Their gayety appeared to me
no other than madness. They were like the gladiators of our circuses, who, doomed to death,
pass the last-days of life in a delirium of forced and frantic joy. Many of the inhabitants
I could not but suppose utterly insensible to the dangers which impend--or ignorant of them;
but more I believe are cheerful, and even gay, through a mad contempt of them. They look back
upon their long and uninterrupted prosperity--they call to mind their late glorious achievements
under Odenatus and their Queen--they think of the wide extent of their empire--they remember
that Longinus is their minister, and Zenobia still their Queen--and give their fears to the
winds. A contest with Rome they approach as they would the games of the amphitheatre.

The situation of their city, defended as it is by the wide-stretching deserts, is indeed enough
of itself to inspire the people with a belief that it is impregnable. It requires an effort,
I am aware, to admit the likelihood of an army from the far west first overcoming the dangers
of the desert, and then levelling the walls of the city, which seem more like ramparts of Nature's
making so massy are they, than any work of man. And the Palmyrenes have certainly also some
excuse in the wretched management of our generals, ever since the expedition of Valerian, and
in the brilliancy of their own achievements, for thinking well of themselves, and anticipating,
without much apprehension for the issue, a war with us. But these and the like apologies, however
they may serve for the common people, surely are of no force in their application to the intelligent,
and such as fill the high places of the kingdom. They know that although upon some mere question
of honor or of boundary, it might be very proper and politic to fight a single battle rather
than tamely submit to an encroachment, it is quite another thing when the only aim of the war
is to see which is the stronger of the two--which is to be master. This last, what is it but
madness? the madness of pride and ambition in the Queen--in the people the madness of a love
and a devotion to her, unparalleled since the world began. A blindness as of death has seized
them all.

Thinking of these things, and full of saddest forebodings as to the fate of this most interesting
and polished people, I reached the gate of the palace of Gracchus. The inmates, Gracchus and
Fausta, I learned from Milo, were at the palace of the Queen, whither I was instructed by them
to resort at the request of Zenobia herself. The chariot of my host soon bore me there. It
was with pleasure that I greeted this unexpected good fortune. I had not even seen the Queen
since the day passed at her villa, and I was not a little desirous, before the ambassadors
should receive their final answer, to have one more opportunity of conversing with her.

The moment I entered the apartment where the Queen was with her guests, I perceived that all
state was laid aside, and that we were to enjoy each other with the same social ease as when
in the country, or as on that first evening in the gardens of the palace. There was on this
occasion no prostration, and no slave crouched at her feet; and all the various Persian ceremonial,
in which this proud woman so delights, was dispensed with. The room in which we met was large,
and opening on two of its sides upon those lofty Corinthian porticos, which add so greatly
to the magnificence of this palace. Light was so disposed as to shed a soft and moon-like radiance,
which, without dazzling, perfectly revealed every person and object, even to the minutest beauties
of the paintings upon the walls, and of the statuary that offered to the eye the master-pieces
of ancient and modern sculpture. The company was scattered; some being seated together in conversation,
others observing the works of art, others pacing the marble floors of the porticos, their forms
crossing and recrossing the ample arched door-ways which opened upon them.

'We feared,' said the Queen, advancing toward me as I entered, 'that we were not to be so happy
as to see you. My other friends have already passed a precious hour with me. But every sacrifice
to the affections, be it ever so slight, is a virtue, and therefore you are still an object
of praise, rather than of censure.'

I said in reply that an affair of consequence had detained me, or I should have been earlier
at the house of Gracchus, so as to have accompanied Fausta.

Fausta, who had been sitting with the Queen, now came forward, Julia leaning on her arm, and
said, 'And what do you imagine to be the affair of consequence that has deprived us of Piso's
company?'

'I cannot tell, indeed,' replied Zenobia.

'Julia at least,' said Fausta, 'will applaud him, when she hears that he has just come from
an assembly of Christians. May I ask, Lucius, what new truth you have learned with which to
enlighten us? But your countenance tells me I must not jest. There--let me smooth that brow
and make my peace. But in seriousness, I hope your Mediterranean friend rewarded you for the
hour you have given him, and deprived us of?'

'I wish,' I could not but reply, 'that but one out of every thousand hours of my life had been
as well rewarded, and it would not have been so worthless. The Princess may believe me when
I say that not even the Bishop of Antioch could have done better justice to the Christian argument.
I have heard this evening a Christian of the name of Probus, whose history I related--and which
you may remember--at the tables, within a few days after my arrival in Palmyra. He is in opinion
a follower of Paul, so I am informed, though not--you Julia will be glad to learn it--in his
manner of life. What the differences are which separate the Christians from one another in
their belief, I know not. I only know that truth cannot take a more winning shape than that
in which it came from the lips of Probus, and it was largely supported by the words of the
founder of the religion. I think you may justly congratulate your city and your subjects,'
I continued addressing Zenobia, 'upon the labors and teaching of a man like Probus. The sentiments
which he utters are such as must tend to the strength of any government which relies for its
support, in any sense, upon the social and personal virtues of the people. In implanting the
virtues of justice, temperance, and piety, and in binding each heart to every other, by the
bonds of a love which this religion makes itself almost to consist in, it does all that either
philosophy or religion can do for the harmony and order of society, the safety of governments,
and the peace of the world.'

'You speak with the earnestness of a deep persuasion, Roman,' replied the Queen, 'and I shall
not forget the name and office of the person whom you have now named to me. I hear with pleasure
of the arrival of any teacher of truth in my kingdom. I have derived so much myself from the
influences of letters and philosophy, that it is no far-off conclusion for me to arrive at,
that my people must be proportionally benefited by an easy access to the same life-giving fountains.
Whatever helps to quicken thought, and create or confirm habits of reflection, is so much direct
service to the cause of humanity. I truly believe that there is no obstacle but ignorance,
to prevent the world from attaining a felicity and a virtue, such as we now hardly dream of--ignorance
respecting the first principles of philosophy and religion. Knowledge is not less essential
to the increase and elevation of virtue, than it is to the further advances of truth, and the
detection of error. Prove the truth, and mankind will always prefer it to falsehood. So too,
demonstrate wherein goodness consists, and the road that leads to it, and mankind will prefer
it to vice. Vice is a mistake, as well as a fault; I do not say as often. I fear that the Christian
teachers are occupying themselves and their disciples too much about mere speculative and fanciful
distinctions, while they give too little heed to that which alone is of any consequence, virtue.
In this, Longinus,' turning towards the philosopher, who had now joined us, 'I think they affect
to imitate the commentators and living expositors of the great Plato. I have heard from Paul
of Samosata accounts of differences among Christians, where the points were quite too subtle
for my understanding to appreciate. They reminded me of the refinements of some of the young
adventurers from Athens, who occasionally have resorted here for the purpose of elucidating
the doctrines of your great master--pseudo-philosophers and tyros, I perceive you are waiting
to term them. Is it so that you denominate Polemo the Athenian, who as I learn is now here
with the benevolent design of enlightening my people?'

'He is a man,' replied Longinus, 'hardly worthy to be named in this connection and this presence
at all. I have neither met him nor heard him, nor do I desire to do so. It is through the mischievous
intermeddling of such as he that the honorable name and office of philosopher are brought into
contempt. It requires more intellect than ever enlightens the soul of Polemo, to comprehend
the lofty truth of Plato. I trust that when it has been my pleasure to unfold the sense of
that great teacher, it has not been found to be either unprofitable, or unintelligible?'

Zenobia smiled and said, 'I must confess that at times, as I have ever frankly stated, my mind
has been a little tasked. There has been but an approach to a perfect idea. But I do not say
that a perfect conception has not been presented. So that when this has happened, Longinus
being the teacher, and Zenobia and Julia the pupils, I cannot doubt that when the task is entrusted
to less cultivated minds--the task both of teaching and learning--it must frequently end in
what it might be rash to term light or knowledge.'

'I grieve, O Queen,' replied Longinus, smiling in his turn, 'that both you and the Princess
should have possessed so little affinity for the soul-purifying and elevating doctrines of
the immortal Plato--that you, Queen, should have even preferred the dark annals of Egyptian
and Assyrian history and politics, and the Greek learning; and you, Princess, should have fixed
your affections upon this, not new-found philosophy, but new-invented religion, of the Christians.
I still anticipate the happiness to lead you both into the groves of the academy, and detain
you there, where and where only are seats that well become you.'

'But is it not,' I ventured here to suggest, 'some objection to the philosophy of Plato as
the guide of life, that it requires minds of the very highest order to receive it? Philosophy,
methinks, should be something of such potency, yet at the same time of such simplicity, that
it should not so much require a lofty and elevated intellect to admit it, as tend, being received
readily and easily by minds of a humbler order, to raise them up to itself. Now this, so far
as I understand it, is the character of the Christian philosophy--for philosophy I must think
it deservedly called. It is admitted into the mind with ease. But once being there, its operation
is continually to exalt and refine it--leading it upwards forever to some higher point than
it has hitherto arrived at. I do not deny an elevating power to your philosophy when once an
inmate of the soul--I only assert the difficulty of receiving it on the part of the common mind.'

'And the common mind has nothing to do,' replied the Greek, 'with Plato or his wisdom. They
are for minds of a higher order. Why should the man who makes my sandals and my cloak be at
the same time a philosopher? Would he be the happier? In my opinion, it would but increase
his discontent. Every stitch that he set would be accompanied by the reflection, "What a poor
employment is this for a soul like mine, imbued with the best wisdom of Greece," and if this
did not make him miserable at his task, it would make him contemptible when he should forsake
it to do the work of some Polemo--who, it may safely be presumed, has made some such exchange
of occupation. No. Philosophy is not for the many, but the few. Parts there are of it which
may descend and become a common inheritance. Other parts there are, and it is of these I speak,
which may not.'

'Therein,' I rejoined, 'I discern its inferiority to Christianity, which appeals to all and
is suited to all, to lowest as well as highest, to highest as well as lowest.'

'But I remember to have been told,' said the Greek in reply, 'that Christian teachers too have
their mysteries--their doctrines for the common people, and their refinements for the initiated.'

'I have heard not of it,' I answered; 'if it be so I should lament it. It would detract from
its value greatly in my judgment.'

'Where your information fails, Piso, mine perhaps may serve,' said Julia, as I paused at fault.
'It is indeed true, as has been hinted by Longinus, that some of the Christian doctors, through
their weak and mistaken ambition to assimilate their faith the nearest possible to the Greek
philosophy, have magnified the points in which the least resemblance could be traced between
them; and through the force of a lively imagination have discovered resemblances which exist
only in their fancies. These they make their boast of, as showing that if Platonism be to be
esteemed for its most striking peculiarities, the very same, or ones nearly corresponding,
exist also in Christianity. Thus they hope to recommend their faith to the lovers of philosophy.
Many have by these means been drawn over to it, and have not afterward altered any of their
modes of life, and scarce any of their opinions; still wearing the philosopher's robe and teaching
their former doctrines, slightly modified by a tincture of Christianity. However the motive
for such accommodation may be justified, it has already resulted and must do so more and more
to the corruption and injury of Christianity. This religion, or philosophy, whichever it should
be called, ought however,' continued the Princess, addressing particularly the Greek, 'certainly
to be judged on its own merits, and not by the conduct or opinions of injudicious, weak, or
dishonest advocates. You are not willing that Plato should be judged by the criticisms of a
Polemo, but insist that the student should go to the pages of the philosopher himself, or else
to some living expositor worthy of him. So the Christian may say of christianity. I have been
a reader of the Christian records, and I can say, that such secret and mysterious doctrines
as you allude to, are not to be found there. Moreover, I can refer you, for the same opinion,
to Paul of Antioch--I wish he were here--who, however he may depart from the simplicity of
the Christian life, maintains the simplicity of its doctrine.'

'You have well shown, my fair pupil,' replied the philosopher, 'that the imputation upon Christianity,
of a secret and interior doctrine for the initiated alone, is unjust, but therein have you
deprived it of the very feature that would commend it to the studious and inquisitive. It may
present itself as a useful moral guide to the common mind, but scarcely can it hope to obtain
that enthusiastic homage of souls imbued with the love of letters, and of a refined speculation,
which binds in such true-hearted devotion every follower of Plato to the doctrine of his divine
master.'

At this moment Zabdas and Otho entered the apartment, and drawing near to our group to salute
the Queen, our conversation was broken off. I took occasion, while this ceremony was going
through, to turn aside and survey the various beauty and magnificence of the room, with its
rare works of art. In this I was joined by Longinus, who, with a taste and a power which I
have seen in no other, descanted upon the more remarkable of the pictures and statues, not
in the manner of a lecturer, but with a fine perception and observance of that nice line which
separates the learned philosopher from the polite man of the world. He was both at once. He
never veiled his learning or his genius, and yet never, by the display of either, jarred the
sensibilities of the most refined and cultivated taste.

When we had in this way passed through the apartment, and were standing looking toward where
Zenobia sat engaged in earnest conversation with Gracchus and Zabdas, Longinus said,

'Do you observe the restlessness of the Queen, and that flush upon her cheek? She is thinking
of to-morrow and of the departure of the ambassadors. And so too is it with every other here.
We speak of other things, but the mind dwells but upon one. I trust the Queen will not lose
this fair occasion to gather once more the opinions of those who most love and honor her. Piso,
you have seen something of the attachment of this people to their Queen. But you know not the
one half of the truth. There is not a living man in Palmyra, save only Antiochus, who would
not lay down his life for Zenobia. I except not myself. This attachment is founded in part
upon great and admirable qualities. But it is to be fully explained only when I name the fascinations
of a manner and a beauty such as poets have feigned in former ages, but which never have been
realized till now. I acknowledge it,--we are slaves yoked to her car, and ask no higher felicity
or glory.'

'I wonder not,' said I; 'though a Roman, I have hardly myself escaped the common fate; you
need not be surprised to see me drawn, by-and-by, within the charmed circle, and binding upon
my own neck the silken chains and the golden yoke. But see, the Queen asks our audience.'

We accordingly moved toward the seat which Zenobia now occupied, surrounded by her friends,
some being seated and others standing without order around her.

'Good friends,' she said, 'I believe one thought fills every mind present here. Is it not better
that we give it utterance? I need the sympathy and the counsel of those who love me. But I
ask not only for the opinions of those who agree with me, but as sincerely for those of such
as may differ from me. You know me well in this, that I refuse not to hearken to reasons, the
strongest that can be devised, although they oppose my own settled judgment. Upon an occasion
like this it would ill become the head of a great empire to shut out the slenderest ray of
light that from any quarter might be directed upon the questions which so deeply interest and
agitate us. I believe that the great heart of my people goes with me in the resolution I have
taken, and am supported in by my council; but I am well aware, that minds not inferior to any
in strength, and hearts that beat not less warmly toward their country and toward me than any
others, are opposed to that resolution, and anticipate nought but disaster and ruin from a
conflict with the masters of the world. Let us freely open our minds each to other, and let
no one fear to offend me, but by withholding his full and free opinion.'

'We who know our Queen so well,' said Gracchus, 'hardly need these assurances. Were I as bitterly
opposed to the measures proposed as I am decidedly in favor of them, I should none the less
fearlessly and frankly declare the reasons of my dissent. I am sure that every one here experiences
the freedom you enjoin. But who will need to use it? For are we not of one mind? I see indeed
one or two who oppose the general sentiment. But for the rest, one spirit animates all, and
what is more, to the farthest limits of the kingdom am I persuaded the same spirit spreads,
and possesses and fills every soul. The attempt of Aurelian to control us in our affairs, to
dictate to us concerning the limits of our empire so far removed, is felt to be a wanton freak
of despotic power, which, if it be not withstood in its first encroachment, may proceed to
other acts less tolerable still, and which may leave us scarcely our name as a distinct people--and
that covered with shame. Although a Roman by descent, I advocate not Roman intolerance. I can
see and denounce injustice in Aurelian as well as in another. Palmyra is my country and Zenobia
my Queen, and when I seek not their honor, may my own fall blasted and ruined. I stand ready
to pledge for them in this emergency, what every other man of Palmyra holds it his privilege
to offer, my property and my life, and if I have any possession dearer than these, I am ready
to bring and lay it upon the same altar.'

The eyes of Zenobia filled at the generous enthusiasm of her faithful counsellor--and, for
Fausta, it was only a look and sign of the Queen that held her to her seat.

Longinus then, as seemed to be his place, entered at length into the merits of the question.
He did not hesitate to say that at the first outbreak of these difficulties he had been in
favor of such concessions to the pride of Rome as would perhaps have appeased her and cast
no indignity upon Palmyra. He did not scruple to add that he had deeply disapproved and honestly
censured that rash act of the young princes in assuming the garb and state of Caesars. He would
rather leave to Rome her own titles and empire, and stand here upon a new and independent footing.
It was a mad and useless affront, deeply wounding to the pride of Aurelian, and the more rankling
as it was of the nature of a personal as well as national affront. He withheld not blame too
from that towering ambition which, as he said, coveted the world because the gods had indeed
imparted a genius capable to rule the world. He had exerted all his powers to moderate and
restrain it, by infusing a love of other than warlike pursuits. 'But,' said he, 'the gods weave
the texture of our souls, not ourselves; and the web is too intensely wove and drenched in
too deep a dye for us to undo or greatly change. The eagle cannot be tamed down to the softness
of a dove, and no art of the husbandman can send into the gnarled and knotted oak the juices
that shall smooth and melt its stiffness into the yielding pliancy of the willow. I wage no
war with the work of the gods. Besides, the demands of Rome have now grown to such a size that
they swallow up our very existence as a free and sovereign state. They leave us but this single
city and province out of an empire that now stretches from the Nile to the Bosphorus--an empire
obtained by what cost of blood and treasure I need not say, any more than by what consummate
skill in that art which boasts the loftiest minds of all ages.' He went on to say, that Palmyra
owed a duty not only to herself in this matter, but to the whole East, and even to the world.
For what part of the civilized world had not been trampled into dust by the despotism of almighty
Rome? It was needful to the well-being of nations that some power should boldly stand forth
and check an insolence that suffered no city nor kingdom to rest in peace. No single people
ought to obtain universal empire. A powerful nation was the more observant of the eternal principles
of honor and justice for being watched by another, its equal. Individual character needs such
supervision, and national as much. Palmyra was now an imposing object in the eye of the whole
world. It was the second power. All he wished was, that for the sake of the world's peace,
it should retain this position. He deprecated conquest. However another might aspire to victory
over Aurelian, to new additions from the Roman territory, he had no such aspirations. On the
other hand, he should deplore any success beyond the maintenance of a just and honorable independence.
This was our right, he said, by inheritance, and as much also by conquest, and for this he
was ready, with the noble Gracchus, to offer to his sovereign his properties, his powers, and
his life. 'If my poor life,' he closed with saying, 'could prolong by a single year the reign
of one who, with virtues so eminent and a genius so vast, fills the throne of this fair kingdom,
I would lay it at her feet with joy, and think it a service well done for our own and the world's
happiness.'

No sooner had Longinus ended, than Otho, a man of whom I have more than once spoken to you,
begged to say a few words.

'My opinions are well known,' he began with saying, 'and it may be needless that I should again,
and especially here, declare them, seeing that they will jar so rudely with those entertained
by you, my friends around me. But sure I am, that no one has advocated the cause and the sentiments
which Zenobia cherishes so fondly, with a truer, deeper affection for her, with a sincerer
love of her glory, than I rise to oppose them with--' 'We know it, we know it, Otho,' interrupted
the Queen. 'Thanks, noble Queen, for the fresh assurance of it. It is because I love, that
I resist you. It is because I glory in your reign, in your renown, in your virtues, that I
oppose an enterprise that I see with a prophet's vision will tarnish them all. Were I your
enemy, I could not do better than to repeat the arguments that have just fallen from the lips
of the head of our councils, set off with every trick of eloquence that would send them with
a yet more resistless power into the minds not only of those who are assembled here, but of
those, your subjects, wherever over these large dominions they are scattered. To press this
war is to undermine the foundations of the fairest kingdom the sun shines upon, and unseat
the most beloved ruler that ever swayed a sceptre over the hearts of a devoted people. It can
have no other issue. And this is not, O noble Queen, to throw discredit upon former achievements,
or to express a doubt of powers which have received the homage of the world. It is only with
open eyes to acknowledge what all but the blind must see and confess, the overwhelming superiority
in power of every kind of the other party. With a feeble man upon the Roman throne, and I grant
that upon the outskirts of her empire a brave and determined opposition might obtain great
advantages, and conquer or re-conquer provinces and cities, and bring disgrace upon Roman generals.
But this must be a transitory glory--the mere shooting of an evening star--ending in deeper
gloom. For what is Rome? Is it the commander of a legion, or the resident governor of a dependent
kingdom, or even Caesar himself? And have you dealt with Rome when you have dealt with Balista,
or Heraclianus, or Probus? Alas! no. Rome still stands omnipotent and secure. The lion has
been but chafed, and is still a lion, with more than his former fury; one hair has been drawn;
his teeth, his limbs, his massy weight, his untouched energies, remain. Rome has been asleep
for thirteen long years. Any empire but Rome--which is immortal--would have slept the sleep
of death under the dastardly, besotted Gallienus. But Rome has but slumbered, and has now awaked
with renovated powers, under the auspices of a man whose name alone has carried terror and
dismay to the farthest tribes of the German forests. Against Aurelian, with all the world at
his back! and what can any resistance of ours avail? We may gain a single victory--to that,
genius and courage are equal, and we possess them in more than even Roman measure--but that
very victory may be our undoing, or it will but embitter the temper of the enemy, call forth
a new display of unexhausted and inexhaustible resources, while our very good success itself
will have nearly annihilated our armies; and what can happen then but ruin, absolute and complete?
Roman magnanimity may spare our city and our name. But it is more likely that Roman vengeance
may blot them both out from the map of the world, and leave us nought but the fame of our Queen,
and the crumbling ruins of this once flourishing city, by which to be remembered by posterity.

'These are not the counsels of fear--of a tame and cowardly spirit. I may rebut that imputation
without vanity, by referring to the siege of Ctesiphon and the reduction of Egypt. The generous
Zabdas will do me justice--nay, you all will--why am I apprehensive? Bear with me a moment
more'--'Say on, say on, noble Otho,' said the Queen, and many other voices at the same time.--'The
great Longinus has said,' continued he, 'that it is needful that there be one empire at least
in the world to stand between Rome and universal dominion. I believe it. And that Palmyra may
be, or continue to be, that kingdom, I counsel peace--I counsel delay--temporary concession--negotiation--any
thing but war. A Roman emperor lives not forever; and let us once ward off the jealousy of
Aurelian, by yielding to some of his demands, and resigning pretensions which are nothing in
reality, but exist as names and shadows only, and long years of peace and prosperity may again
arise, when our now infant kingdom may shoot up into the strong bone and muscle of a more vigorous
manhood, and with reason assert rights, which now it seems but madness, essential madness,
to do. Listen, great Queen! to the counsels of a time-worn soldier, whose whole soul is bound
up in most true-hearted devotion to your greatness and glory. I quarrel not with your ambition,
or your love of warlike fame. I would only direct them to fields where they may pluck fresh
laurels, and divert them from those where waits--pardon me, my royal mistress!--inevitable shame.'

Soon as Otho had given a single sign of pause, Zabdas, like a war-horse, sprang upon his feet.
'Were not the words,' said he, 'which we have just heard, the words of Otho, I would cry out
treason! treason!--But Otho--is Otho. What nation would ever, O Queen, outgrow its infancy,
were a policy like this, now descanted upon, to guide its counsels? The general who risks nothing
can win nothing. And the nation that should wait till absolutely sure of victory before unsheathing
the sword would never draw it, or only in some poor skirmish, where victory would be as disgraceful
as defeat. Besides, although such a nation were to rise by such victories, if victories those
may be called won by a thousand over an hundred, who would not blush to own himself a citizen
of it? Greatness lies not in pounds weight of flesh, but in skill, courage, warlike genius,
energy, and an indomitable will. A great heart will scatter a multitude. The love of freedom,
in a few brave spirits, overthrows kingdoms. It was not, if I rightly remember, numbers by
which the Persian hosts were beaten upon the plains of Greece. It was there something like
three hundred to a million--the million weighed more than the three hundred, yet the three
hundred were the heavier. The arm of one Spartan fell like a tempest upon the degenerate Persians,
crushing its thousands at a single sweep. It was a great heart and a trusting spirit that made
it weigh so against mere human flesh. Are we to wait till Palmyra be as multitudinous as Rome,
ere we risk a battle? Perhaps Rome will grow as fast as Palmyra--and how long must we then
wait? I care not, though Aurelian bring half Europe at his back, there sits a throned spirit--whether
of earth or not, I cannot tell, but as I think more than half divine--who will drive him back
shattered and bleeding, the jest and ridicule of the observing world. She who, by the force
of pure intellect, has out of this speck in the desert made a large empire, who has humbled
Persia, and entered her capital in triumph, has defeated three Roman armies, and wrested more
provinces than time will allow me to number, from the firm grasp of the self-styled mistress
of the world, this more than Semiramis is to be daunted forsooth, because a Roman soldier of
fortune sends his hirelings here and asks of her the surrender of three fourths of her kingdom--she
is to kneel and cry him mercy--and humbly lay at his royal feet the laurels won by so much
precious blood and treasure. May the sands of the desert bury Palmyra and her Queen, sooner
than one humiliating word shall pass those lips, or one act of concession blast a fame to this
hour spotless as the snows of Ararat, and bright as the Persian God. Shame upon the man who,
after the lessons of the past, wants faith in his sovereign. Great Queen, believe me, the nation
is with you. Palmyra, as one man, will pour out treasure to the last and least dust of gold,
and blood to the last drop, that you may still sit secure upon that throne, and stretch your
sceptre over a yet wider and undishonored empire.'

'Let not the Queen,' resumed Otho, as Zabdas ceased, 'let not the Queen doubt my faith'--'I
doubt it not, good Otho,' she replied; 'heed not the sharp words of the impetuous Zabdas; in
his zeal for the art he only loves and for his Queen, he has thrust his lance hither and thither
at all adventures, but as in the sports of the field he means no injury.'

'Zabdas intends no wrong, I am well assured,' rejoined Otho. 'I would only add a word, to show
upon what I ground my doubt of good success, should Aurelian muster all his strength. It cannot
be thought that I have lost my faith in the military genius and prowess of either Zenobia or
Zabdas, with both of whom, side by side, I have fought so many times, and by their conduct
mounted up to victory. Neither do I doubt the courage of our native Palmyrenes, nor their devotion
to the interests of their country. They will war to the death. But should a second army be
to be raised, should the chosen troops of the city and its neighboring territories be once
cut off, upon whom are we then to rely? Where are the auxiliaries whom we can trust? What reliance
can be placed upon Arabs, the Armenians, the Saracens, the Cappadocians, the Syrians? Is our
empire so old, and so well moulded into one mass, so single in interest and affection, that
these scattered tribes--formerly hostile to each other and to us, many, most of them at different
times subject to Rome--may be depended upon as our own people? Have we legions already drawn
from their numbers, disciplined, and accustomed to our modes of warfare? Truly, this war with
Rome seems to be approached much as if it were but some passing show of arms, some holiday
pastime. But the gods grant that none of my forebodings turn true!'

The words of the sober-minded and honest Otho found no echo in the bosoms of those who heard
him, and he ceased, when I believe he would willingly have gone on to a closer and sharper
opposition. Others followed him, each one present eagerly pressing forward to utter, were it
but one word, to show his loyalty, and his zeal in the service of his Queen.

When all, or nearly all, had in this manner manifested their attachment and declared their
opinions, the Queen turned to me, saying, that as I had there heard so much of what I could
not approve, and perhaps had power to disprove, it was right that if I wished I should also
express my opinions; nay, it would be esteemed as a favor by herself, and she was sure also
by all her friends, if I would freely impart any knowledge I might possess, by which any error
might be corrected, or false impressions dissipated.

Being thus invited, I not unwillingly entered into the questions that had been agitated, and
with earnestness and sincerity, and with all the power I could bring to bear, labored to expose
the imminent hazard to the very existence of the kingdom, which was run by this rash encounter
with the countless hosts of Rome. I revealed a true picture of the resources of our country,
and sketched, as I could so well do in their proper colors, the character of the fierce Aurelian;
and, in a word, did all that a Roman could do for Rome, and a Palmyrene for Palmyra. I remembered
what Otho had told me of the courtesy and willingness with which any company of genuine Palmyrenes
would listen to me, and shrank not from any statement however harsh and grating to their national
vanity, but which seemed to me to convey the wholesome truth. It appeared to me indeed too
late to work any change in minds so pledged already to an adopted opinion, but I resolved to
leave nothing untried to turn them from a bent that must end in irretrievable ruin. I was encouraged
too, and urged on to more than a common effort, by the imploring countenance of the Princess
Julia, who, in that expressive manner, begged me to use all frankness and boldness in my communications.
Otho had, it is true, with great power and unshrinking fidelity, advocated the cause of peace,
and laid bare the true motives to the war, but still it appeared to me that much might be said
by a Roman and a stranger, that would carry with it more weight than as coming from a citizen,
however loved and respected. To you, my friend, I need enter into no detail; you will easily
imagine what it was, as a Roman, I should urge upon such an occasion, and in such a presence.
I shall always remember with satisfaction, I am sure, whatever the issue of this difference
may be, my efforts to preserve peace between two nations, whose best interests must be advanced
not by enmity and war, but by the closest alliance of friendly intercourse.

I was heard with attention and respect, and afterwards with sincerity thanked, not only by
the opposers of the present measures, but by their advocates also; they were glad to know the
worst that could be said against the cause they had espoused. A brief silence ensued as I ended,
and the eyes of all were instinctively turned upon Zenobia, the ruling spirit--the maker of
the kingdom--its soul--its head--and bright, peerless crown.

'It was my wish,' said Zenobia, answering the general expectation, 'before the final decision
of the senate and the council, to receive from my friends, in social confidence, a full expression
of their feelings, their opinions, their hopes, and their fears, concerning the present posture
of our affairs. My wish has been gratified, and I truly thank you all, and not least those
my friends--as a philosopher, should I not term them my best friends?--who, with a generous
trust in me and in you who are on my part, have not shrunk from the duty, always a hard one,
of exposing the errors and the faults of those they love. After such exposure--and which at
more length and with more specification will, I trust, be repeated in the hearing of the senate
and the council--it cannot be said that I blindly rushed upon danger and ruin, if these await
us, or weakly blundered upon a wider renown, if that, as I doubt not, is to be the event of
the impending contest. I would neither gain nor lose, but as the effect of a wise calculation
and a careful choice of means. Withhold not now your confidence, which before you have never
refused me. Believe that now, as ever before, I discern with a clear eye the path which is
to conduct us to a yet higher pitch of glory. I have long anticipated the emergency that has
arisen. I was not so ignorant of the history and character of the Roman people, as to suppose
that they would suffer an empire like this, founded and governed by a woman, to divide long
with them the homage of the world. With the death of the ignoble son of Valerian, I believed
would close our undisputed reign over most of these eastern provinces. Had Claudius lived,
good as he was, he was too Roman in his mould not to have done what Aurelian now attempts.
I prepared then for the crisis which has come not till now. I am ready now. My armies are in
complete discipline; the city itself so fortified with every art and muniment of war as safely
to defy any power that any nation may array before its walls. But were this not so; did the
embassy of Aurelian take us by surprise and unprepared; should a people that respects itself,
and would win or keep the good opinion of mankind, tamely submit to requisitions like these?
Are we to dismember our country at the behest of a stranger, of a foreigner, and a Roman? Do
you feel that without a struggle first for freedom and independence, you could sink down into
a mean tributary of all-ingulfing Rome, and lose the name of Palmyrene? I see by the most expressive
of all language, that you would rather die. Happy are you, my friends, that this is not your
case; you are ready for the enemy; you shall not lose your name or your renown; and you shall
not die. I and my brave soldiers will at a distance breast the coming storm; your ears shall
not so much as hear its thunder; and at the worst, by the sacrifice of our lives, your and
your country's life shall be preserved.

'I am advised to avert this evil by negotiation, by delay. Does any one believe that delay
on our part will change the time-engendered character of Rome? If I cease to oppose, will Rome
cease to be ambitious? Will fair words turn aside the fierce spirit of Aurelian from his settled
purpose? Will he--so truly painted by the Roman Piso--who looks to build an undying name, by
bringing back the empire to the bounds that compassed it under the great Antonines, let slip
the glory for a few cities now in hand, and others promised? or for the purple robe humbly
pulled from our young Caesars' shoulders? Believe it not. The storm that threatens might he
so warded off perhaps for a day--a month--a year--a reign--but after that it would come, and,
in all reasonable calculation, with tenfold fury. I would rather meet the danger at its first
menace, and thereby keep our good name,--which otherwise should we not sully or lose?--and
find it less too than a few years more would make it.

'I am charged with pride and ambition. The charge is true, and I glory in its truth. Who ever
achieved any thing great in letters, arts, or arms, who was not ambitious? Caesar was not more
ambitious than Cicero. It was but in another way. All greatness is born of ambition. Let the
ambition be a noble one, and who shall blame it? I confess I did once aspire to be Queen not
only of Palmyra, but of the East. That I am. I now aspire to remain so. Is it not an honorable
ambition? Does it not become a descendant of the Ptolemys and of Cleopatra? I am applauded
by you all for what I have already done. You would not it should have been less. But why pause
here? Is so much ambition praiseworthy, and more criminal? Is it fixed in nature that the limits
of this empire should be Egypt on the one hand, the Hellespont and the Euxine on the other?
Were not Suez and Armenia more natural limits? Or hath empire no natural limit, but is broad
as the genius that can devise, and the power that can win? Rome has the West. Let Palmyra possess
the East Not that nature prescribes this and no more. The gods prospering, and I swear not
that the Mediterranean shall hem me in upon the West, or Persia on the East. Longinus is right--I
would that the world were mine. I feel within the will and the power to bless it, were it so.

'Are not my people happy? I look upon the past and the present, upon my nearer and remoter
subjects, and ask nor fear the answer--whom have I wronged? what province have I oppressed?
what city pillaged? what region drained with taxes? whose life have I unjustly taken, or estates
coveted or robbed? whose honor have I wantonly assailed? whose rights, though of the weakest
and poorest, have I trenched upon? I dwell where I would ever dwell, in the hearts of my people.
It is writ in your faces, that I reign not more over you than within you. The foundation of
my throne is not more power than love. Suppose now, my ambition add another province to our
realm? Is it an evil? The kingdoms already bound to us by the joint acts of ourself and the
late royal Odenatus, we found discordant and at war. They are now united and at peace. One
harmonious whole has grown out of hostile and sundered parts. At my hands they receive a common
justice and equal benefits. The channels of their commerce have I opened, and dug them deep
and sure. Prosperity and plenty are in all their borders. The streets of our capital bear testimony
to the distant and various industry which here seeks its market. This is no vain boasting--receive
it not so, good friends: it is but truth. He who traduces himself, sins with him who traduces
another. He who is unjust to himself, or less than just, breaks a law as well as he who hurts
his neighbor. I tell you what I am and what I have done, that your trust for the future may
not rest upon ignorant grounds. If I am more than just to myself, rebuke me. If I have overstepped
the modesty that became me, I am open to your censure, and will bear it. But I have spoken,
that you may know your Queen--not only by her acts, but by her admitted principles. I tell
you then that I am ambitious--that I crave dominion, and while I live will reign. Sprung from
a line of kings, a throne is my natural seat. I love it. But I strive too--you can bear me
witness that I do--that it shall be, while I sit upon it, an honored, unpolluted seat. If I
can, I will hang a yet brighter glory round it.

'And as to pride--what if my woman's nature, that nature the gods implanted and I have received
from royal ancestors, loves the pomp and show of power? What if the pride which dwells in all
high natures gratifies itself in me by planting its feet upon an Indian princess, as its only
fitting footstool, who'--Suddenly at this point of her discourse the Queen broke off, and advancing
from where she stood--she had risen from her seat in the ardor of her address--greeted with
native courtesy and grace the Roman ambassadors, who, in company with others of their train,
we now saw to enter the apartments.

The company, upon this, again resolved itself into many separate groups, and returned to such
private topics as each one liked, Zenobia devoting herself to Varro and Petronius.

By and by, at the striking up of music, we moved to another apartment, the banqueting hall--the
same Egyptian room in which I had before partaken the hospitalities of the Eastern Queen, where
tables, set out with the most lavish magnificence, and bending beneath the most tempting burdens,
awaited our approach. A flood of light was poured from the ceiling, and reflected back again
from the jewelled wine cups and embossed gold of Demetrius.

But I cannot pretend to describe this sumptuous feast. I will only say, that the Queen, seated
between the Roman ambassadors, gave the evening to them. And what with the frequent cups in
which she pledged them, and the fascinating charms of her beauty and her conversation, I fear
there was but little of the Roman in them when they rose to depart. In this more peaceful way
has Zenobia won provinces and cities, as well as at the head of her armies. Farewell.

Letter XI.

From my late letters to Portia, and which without doubt you have before this read, you have
learned with certainty, what I am sure the eye of Lucilia must before have clearly discerned,
my love of the Princess Julia. I have there related all that it can import my friends to know.
The greatest event of my life--the issues of which, whether they are to crown me with a felicity
the gods might envy, or plunge me in afflictions divine compassions could not assuage--I have
there described with that careful concern for your fullest information, touching all that befalls
me, by which you will bear me testimony I have been actuated during my residence in this Eastern
capital.

You will not be surprised to learn that my passion is opposed by the Queen. It was in the same
apartment of the palace where I first saw this wonderful woman, that at a late interview with
her, at her command, I was enjoined to think no more of an alliance with her house.

I was, as you may easily imagine, not a little disturbed in anticipation of an interview with
such a person, on such an occasion. Fausta assured me that I might rely upon the Queen's generosity,
and could look to receive only the most courteous reception, whatever her decision might be
on my suit. 'I fear greatly for your success,' said she, 'but pray the gods both for your and
the Princess' sake my fears may not come true. Julia lives in her affections--she cannot like
me become part of the world abroad, and doubly live in its various action. She loves Zenobia
indeed with the truest affection, but she has given her heart to you, Lucius, and disappointment
here would feed upon her very life. She ought not to be denied. She cannot bear it. Yet Zenobia,
devoured by ambition, and holding so little sympathy with human hearts in their mutual loves--all
the world to them--may deny her, nor ever half conceive the misery she will inflict upon a
being she loves and even reveres. Press your cause, Lucius, with a manly boldness. The gods
succeed you.'

The Queen received me graciously, but with a fixed and almost severe countenance. She expressed
herself obliged to me for the early knowledge of what otherwise she had not so much as suspected.
'Living myself,' said she 'far above any dependence upon love for my happiness, I am not prone
to see the affection in others. The love which fastens upon objects because they are worthy,
I can understand and honor. But that mad and blind passion, which loves only because it will
love, which can render no reason for its existence but a hot and capricious fancy, I have had
no experience of in my own heart, and where I see it I have no feeling for it but one of disapprobation
or contempt. If it be but the beauty of Julia which has bewitched thy fancy, Roman, amuse thyself
with a brief tour of pleasure, either to Antioch or Alexandria, and other objects will greet
thee, and soon drive her from thy thoughts.'

I assured her that my regard was not of this kind; that indeed her transcendent beauty had
first won me, but that other qualities retained me; that the bond which held me was as much
friendship as love, and I might say as much reverence as friendship.

'The greater the pity, Roman,' rejoined the Queen in a voice somewhat stern, but yet melancholy,
'the greater the pity. In truth, I had hoped thine was but the love of the painted image, and
might without pain be transferred to another, painted but as well. Yet, had I reflected upon
the sentiments I have heard from thee, I might have judged thee nobler. But, Piso, this must
not be. Were I to look only to myself and Julia, I might well be pleased with a tie that bound
us to one whom I have so weighty reasons to respect and honor. But to do this I have no right.
I am not my own, but the State's. Julia is no daughter of mine, but the property of Palmyra.
Marriage is one of the chief bonds of nations, as of families. Were it not a crime in me, with
selfish regard to my own or my daughter's pleasure, to bestow her upon a private citizen of
whatever worth, when, espousing her to some foreign prince, a province or a kingdom may be
won or saved?'

'But,' I ventured to remark, 'are the hearts of princes and princesses to be bartered away
for power or territory? are the affections to be bought and sold? Is the question of happiness
to be no question in their case?'

'By no means the principal one. It is not necessarily a sacrifice, but if necessary the sacrifice
must be made. The world envies the lot of those who sit upon thrones. But the seat is not without
its thorns. It seems all summer with them. But upon whom burst more storms, or charged with
redder fury? They seem to the unreflecting mind to be the only independent--while they are
the slaves of all. The prosperous citizen may link himself and his children when and with whom
he likes, and none may gainsay him. He has but to look to himself and his merest whim. The
royal family must go and ask his leave. My children are more his than mine. And if it be his
pleasure and preference that my daughters ally themselves to an Indian or a Roman prince, his
will is done, not mine--his is the gain, mine the loss. And were it just that, when by joining
hands though not hearts two nations could be knit together in amity, the royal house should
refuse the sacrifice? Roman, I live for Palmyra. I have asked of the gods my children, not
for my own pleasure, but for Palmyra's sake. I should give the lie to my whole life, to every
sentiment I have harbored since that day I gave myself to the royal Odenatus, were I now to
bestow upon a private citizen her, through whom we have so long looked to ally ourselves by
a new and stronger bond to some neighboring kingdom. Julia, Roman--you have seen her, you know
her, you can appreciate her more than human qualities--Julia is the destined bride of Hormisdas.
By her, on Sapor's death, do we hope to bind together by chains never to be afterward sundered,
Persia and Palmyra, who, then leagued by interest and affection, may as one kingdom stand up
with the more hope against the overwhelming force of Rome. Were I justified to forego this
advantage for any private reason? Can you doubt, were I not constrained to act otherwise, whether
I should prefer some nobleman of Palmyra, or thee, that so I might ever dwell within the charmed
influence of one, from whom to part will be like the pang of death?'

'But the princess,'--I again urged.

'That is scarcely a question,' she rejoined. 'She may be a sacrifice; but it will be upon her
country's altar. How many of our brave soldiers, how many of our great officers, with devoted
patriotism throw away their lives for their country. You will not say that this is done for
the paltry recompense, which at best scarce shields the body from the icy winds of winter,
or the scorching rays of summer. And shall not a daughter of the royal house stand ready to
encounter the hardships of a throne, the dangers of a Persian court, and the terrors of a royal
husband, especially when by doing so, fierce and bloody wars may be staid, and nations brought
into closer unity? I know but little of Hormisdas; report speaks well of him. But were it much
less that I know, and were report yet less favorable, it were not enough to turn me from my
purpose. Palmyra married to Persia, through Julia married to Hormisdas, is that upon which
I and my people dwell.'

'Better a thousand times,' I then said, 'to be born to the lot of the humblest peasant--a slave's
is no worse.'

