At luncheon, Owen's radiant countenance proclaimed the happy sequel, and Darrow, when the party
had moved back to the oak-room for coffee, deemed it discreet to wander out alone to the terrace
with his cigar. The conclusion of Owen's romance brought his own plans once more to the front.
Anna had promised that she would consider dates and settle details as soon as Madame de Chantelle
and her grandson had been reconciled, and Darrow was eager to go into the question at once,
since it was necessary that the preparations for his marriage should go forward as rapidly
as possible. Anna, he knew, would not seek any farther pretext for delay; and he strolled up
and down contentedly in the sunshine, certain that she would come out and reassure him as soon
as the reunited family had claimed its due share of her attention.

But when she finally joined him her first word was for the younger lovers.

"I want to thank you for what you've done for Owen," she began, with her happiest smile.

"Who--I?" he laughed. "Are you confusing me with Miss Painter?"

"Perhaps I ought to say for ME," she corrected herself. "You've been even more of a help to
us than Adelaide."

"My dear child! What on earth have I done?"

"You've managed to hide from Madame de Chantelle that you don't really like poor Sophy."

Darrow felt the pallour in his cheek. "Not like her? What put such an idea into your head?"

"Oh, it's more than an idea--it's a feeling. But what difference does it make, after all? You
saw her in such a different setting that it's natural you should be a little doubtful. But
when you know her better I'm sure you'll feel about her as I do."

"It's going to be hard for me not to feel about everything as you do."

"Well, then--please begin with my daughter-in-law!"

He gave her back in the same tone of banter: "Agreed: if you ll agree to feel as I do about
the pressing necessity of our getting married."

"I want to talk to you about that too. You don't know what a weight is off my mind! With Sophy
here for good, I shall feel so differently about leaving Effie. I've seen much more accomplished
governesses--to my cost!--but I've never seen a young thing more gay and kind and human. You
must have noticed, though you've seen them so little together, how Effie expands when she's
with her. And that, you know, is what I want. Madame de Chantelle will provide the necessary
restraint." She clasped her hands on his arm. "Yes, I'm ready to go with you now. But first
of all--this very moment!--you must come with me to Effie. She knows, of course, nothing of
what's been happening; and I want her to be told first about YOU."

Effie, sought throughout the house, was presently traced to the school-room, and thither Darrow
mounted with Anna. He had never seen her so alight with happiness, and he had caught her buoyancy
of mood. He kept repeating to himself: "It's over--it's over," as if some monstrous midnight
hallucination had been routed by the return of day.

As they approached the school-room door the terrier's barks came to them through laughing remonstrances.

"She's giving him his dinner," Anna whispered, her hand in Darrow's.

"Don't forget the gold-fish!" they heard another voice call out.

Darrow halted on the threshold. "Oh--not now!"

"Not now?"

"I mean--she'd rather have you tell her first. I'll wait for you both downstairs."

He was aware that she glanced at him intently. "As you please. I'll bring her down at once."

She opened the door, and as she went in he heard her say: "No, Sophy, don't go! I want you both."

The rest of Darrow's day was a succession of empty and agitating scenes. On his way down to
Givre, before he had seen Effie Leath, he had pictured somewhat sentimentally the joy of the
moment when he should take her in his arms and receive her first filial kiss. Everything in
him that egotistically craved for rest, stability, a comfortably organized middle-age, all
the home-building instincts of the man who has sufficiently wooed and wandered, combined to
throw a charm about the figure of the child who might--who should--have been his. Effie came
to him trailing the cloud of glory of his first romance, giving him back the magic hour he
had missed and mourned. And how different the realization of his dream had been! The child's
radiant welcome, her unquestioning acceptance of, this new figure in the family group, had
been all that he had hoped and fancied. If Mother was so awfully happy about it, and Owen and
Granny, too, how nice and cosy and comfortable it was going to be for all of them, her beaming
look seemed to say; and then, suddenly, the small pink fingers he had been kissing were laid
on the one flaw in the circle, on the one point which must be settled before Effie could, with
complete unqualified assurance, admit the new-comer to full equality with the other gods of
her Olympus.

"And is Sophy awfully happy about it too?" she had asked, loosening her hold on Darrow's neck
to tilt back her head and include her mother in her questioning look.

"Why, dearest, didn't you see she was?" Anna had exclaimed, leaning to the group with radiant eyes.

"I think I should like to ask her," the child rejoined, after a minute's shy consideration;
and as Darrow set her down her mother laughed: "Do, darling, do! Run off at once, and tell
her we expect her to be awfully happy too."

The scene had been succeeded by others less poignant but almost as trying. Darrow cursed his
luck in having, at such a moment, to run the gauntlet of a houseful of interested observers.
The state of being "engaged", in itself an absurd enough predicament, even to a man only intermittently
exposed, became intolerable under the continuous scrutiny of a small circle quivering with
participation. Darrow was furthermore aware that, though the case of the other couple ought
to have made his own less conspicuous, it was rather they who found a refuge in the shadow
of his prominence. Madame de Chantelle, though she had consented to Owen's engagement and formally
welcomed his betrothed, was nevertheless not sorry to show, by her reception of Darrow, of
what finely-shaded degrees of cordiality she was capable. Miss Painter, having won the day
for Owen, was also free to turn her attention to the newer candidate for her sympathy; and
Darrow and Anna found themselves immersed in a warm bath of sentimental curiosity.

It was a relief to Darrow that he was under a positive obligation to end his visit within the
next forty-eight hours. When he left London, his Ambassador had accorded him a ten days' leave.
His fate being definitely settled and openly published he had no reason for asking to have
the time prolonged, and when it was over he was to return to his post till the time fixed for
taking up his new duties. Anna and he had therefore decided to be married, in Paris, a day
or two before the departure of the steamer which was to take them to South America; and Anna,
shortly after his return to England, was to go up to Paris and begin her own preparations.

In honour of the double betrothal Effie and Miss Viner were to appear that evening at dinner;
and Darrow, on leaving his room, met the little girl springing down the stairs, her white ruffles
and coral-coloured bows making her look like a daisy with her yellow hair for its centre. Sophy
Viner was behind her pupil, and as she came into the light Darrow noticed a change in her appearance
and wondered vaguely why she looked suddenly younger, more vivid, more like the little luminous
ghost of his Paris memories. Then it occurred to him that it was the first time she had appeared
at dinner since his arrival at Givre, and the first time, consequently, that he had seen her
in evening dress. She was still at the age when the least adornment embellishes; and no doubt
the mere uncovering of her young throat and neck had given her back her former brightness.
But a second glance showed a more precise reason for his impression. Vaguely though he retained
such details, he felt sure she was wearing the dress he had seen her in every evening in Paris.
It was a simple enough dress, black, and transparent on the arms and shoulders, and he would
probably not have recognized it if she had not called his attention to it in Paris by confessing
that she hadn't any other. "The same dress? That proves that she's forgotten!" was his first
half-ironic thought; but the next moment, with a pang of compunction, he said to himself that
she had probably put it on for the same reason as before: simply because she hadn't any other.

He looked at her in silence, and for an instant, above Effie's bobbing head, she gave him back
his look in a full bright gaze.

"Oh, there's Owen!" Effie cried, and whirled away down the gallery to the door from which her
step-brother was emerging. As Owen bent to catch her, Sophy Viner turned abruptly back to Darrow.

"You, too?" she said with a quick laugh. "I didn't know----" And as Owen came up to them she
added, in a tone that might have been meant to reach his ear: "I wish you all the luck that
we can spare!"

About the dinner-table, which Effie, with Miss Viner's aid, had lavishly garlanded, the little
party had an air of somewhat self-conscious festivity. In spite of flowers, champagne and a
unanimous attempt at ease, there were frequent lapses in the talk, and moments of nervous groping
for new subjects. Miss Painter alone seemed not only unaffected by the general perturbation
but as tightly sealed up in her unconsciousness of it as a diver in his bell. To Darrow's strained
attention even Owen's gusts of gaiety seemed to betray an inward sense of insecurity. After
dinner, however, at the piano, he broke into a mood of extravagant hilarity and flooded the
room with the splash and ripple of his music.

Darrow, sunk in a sofa corner in the lee of Miss Painter's granite bulk, smoked and listened
in silence, his eyes moving from one figure to another. Madame de Chantelle, in her armchair
near the fire, clasped her little granddaughter to her with the gesture of a drawing-room Niobe,
and Anna, seated near them, had fallen into one of the attitudes of vivid calm which seemed
to Darrow to express her inmost quality. Sophy Viner, after moving uncertainly about the room,
had placed herself beyond Mrs. Leath, in a chair near the piano, where she sat with head thrown
back and eyes attached to the musician, in the same rapt fixity of attention with which she
had followed the players at the Francais. The accident of her having fallen into the same attitude,
and of her wearing the same dress, gave Darrow, as he watched her, a strange sense of double
consciousness. To escape from it, his glance turned back to Anna; but from the point at which
he was placed his eyes could not take in the one face without the other, and that renewed the
disturbing duality of the impression. Suddenly Owen broke off with a crash of chords and jumped
to his feet.

"What's the use of this, with such a moon to say it for us?"

Behind the uncurtained window a low golden orb hung like a ripe fruit against the glass.

"Yes--let's go out and listen," Anna answered. Owen threw open the window, and with his gesture
a fold of the heavy star-sprinkled sky seemed to droop into the room like a drawn-in curtain.
The air that entered with it had a frosty edge, and Anna bade Effie run to the hall for wraps.

Darrow said: "You must have one too," and started toward the door; but Sophy, following her
pupil, cried back: "We'll bring things for everybody."

