It is time to speak of the Panorama as a work of art; for hitherto we have rather considered
its intellectual interest. The Castle and Palace we take to be finely painted, with admirable
picturesque effect: the huge gateway, flanked with two towers, the battlemented walls, and
battery, are in fine bold relief, as is the clinging vegetation about the building; nor must
we omit the grotesque figures or corbelled pedestals, and the identical window bars, the work
of the wily Scot of Craig Forth; the latter especially, are clever. A portion of the esplanade
otherwise devoid of interest, is peopled with a meeting of the Highland Society celebrating
the feats of the ancient Caledonians, the object of the Society being to preserve their language,
costume, music, gymnastic sports, and martial games. This introduction happily fills up what
would otherwise have been the only void in the scene, so thickly is it studed and storied with
objects and recollections. Altogether, we have rarely seen a topographical panorama of such
diversified character: it has reminiscences of history and poetry to lead us through the retrospect
of chivalrous ages, princely contests for crowns that rarely sat lightly on their wearers,
and the last flickering hopes of defeated ambition and ill-starred fortune. Yet, how powerfully,
not to say painfully, are these pages in the chronicles of human actions, when contrasted with
the broad volume of nature, as spread before us in this picture. Alas! what is the majesty
of the mightiest of the kings that dwelt in its palace in comparison with the sublimities of
Tinto, Ben Lomond, Venue, or Ledy; or what the peace of their halls amidst the smiling expanse
of the Carse of Stirling in all its quiet luxuriance. They and their houses have become dust
or crumbling ruin, and death has with a little pin bored through their castle walls--while
Nature has been flourishing from year to year, and reading man an epitome of existence in the
succession of her changes.

It has been stated that Mr. Burford, the successful painter of Stirling, is engaged on a Panorama
of the Falls of Niagara. All admirers of this style of painting must be anxious for his success.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR WALTER SCOTT.

Mr. Parker has issued in addition to the Medal already noticed in our pages, a Medallion of
the lamented Poet and Novelist, from Chantrey's bust. It is, we think, the obverse of the Medal,
with bronzed circular frame work bearing the motto suggested by Sir Walter. Though handsome,
it is an economical memorial of one whose amiable talents must endear him to every fireside
in the kingdom.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW BOOKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

POMPEII.

[The second and concluding volume of the descriptive history of Pompeii, in the Library of
Entertaining Knowledge, is still more attractive than its predecessor. It contains the very
domestic economy of the ancient inhabitants--chapters on domestic architecture, paintings and
mosaics, streets and fountains, private houses, villas, and tombs; and, moreover, on the art
of baking, and the forms of domestic utensils. We are, therefore, led through hall, parlour,
bath, kitchen, and shop, with amusing minuteness; and, in the account of furniture and domestic
implements, it is curious to observe, how far we are indebted to the ancients for the forms
of similar contrivances now in use. One of the best passages in this portion of the work is
the following, on the]

Lamps and Candelabra.

We may here say a few words on the art of inlaying one metal with another, in which, as in
all ornamental branches of the working of metals, the ancient Italians possessed great skill.
In the time of Seneca, ornaments of silver were seldom seen, unless their price was enhanced
by being inlaid with solid gold. The art of uniting one metal to another was called by the
general term ferruminare. Inlaid work was of two sorts; in the one, the inlaid work projected
above the surface, and was called emblemata, as the art itself was called, from the Greek,
embletice. It is inferred, from the inspection of numerous embossed vases in the Neapolitan
Museum, that this embossed work was formed, either by plating with a thin leaf of metal figures
already raised upon the surface of the article, or by letting the solid figures into the substance
of the vessel, and finishing them with delicate tools after they were attached. In the second
sort, the inlaid work was even with the surface, and was called crusta, and the art was called,
from the Greek, empaestice. This is the same as the damask work so fashionable in the armour
of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, which is often seen beautifully inlaid with gold.
It was executed by engraving the pattern upon the surface of the metal, and filling up the
lines with fine plates of a different metal; the two were then united with the assistance of
heat, and the whole burnished. Pliny has preserved a receipt for solder, which probably was
used in these works. It is called santerna; and the principal ingredients are borax, nitre,
and copperas, pounded, with a small quantity of gold and silver, in a copper mortar.

[The volume is enriched with four steel-plate engravings, and 154 cuts, of clever execution.]

    [4] Val. Max. vi. 8.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WONDERS OF THE LANE.

