 We were cheered in the hurry of quitting our
rural abode, by the arrival of some thousands of British troops; many of the poor fellows,
heated and languid, entered asking for water to quench their thirst. From them I learnt that
they had returned to England from America, and, without being permitted to land, were immediately
ordered to Ostend. I felt what might be their influence on the fate of that day, and selfishly
partook of their impatience to arrive on the field of battle. The whole of Saturday we believed
the battle lost; and there are those who think that it was, but for the mysterious conduct
of Grouchy, or the treason of the estafettes sent to summon him to advance.

The English families continued to fly towards Ostend: the roads and inns were crowded; the
living bewailing their temerity, close to the chambers of the dead! Your brother and sister
were at Antwerp, in the next room to the unfortunate Duc de Brunswick. The awful hours passed
tardily with me, in pangs for the soldier and his chiefs. On Saturday the 17th, to add to the
accumulating horrors of our critical situation, the very elements vented forth their wrath,
in the most tremendous thunder and lightning; the rain poured in torrents; all nature was at
fearful strife, and God's anger was apparent; for it seemed as if the very heavens were warring
against man's quarrel; and in my agony I exclaimed with Macbeth--

  "'Twas a rough night--"

as I listened to the pelting storm, crouching on a mattress by the side of my weeping émigrée,
imploring me for words of comfort. Towards morning the rain abated, but gloomy clouds ushered
in that eventful day. At two o'clock I dined with Monsieur D'H----, whose daughter-in-law,
la Comtesse de P----'s first-born son, had seen the light of this world only a few hours before--while
at dinner, the servants rushed into the room in disorder, exclaiming, "All is over!" A detachment
of dragoons, which passed a few hours ago to join the enemy, are returned! We rose precipitately;
Mr. D'H---- took a key from a drawer, and commanded us to follow him. We traversed rapidly
the chamber of the invalid lady, each inconsiderately repeating to her--"All is lost!" We ascended
a dilapidated staircase, and passing through a small trap-door, what was my astonishment, when
I found myself in the Park! There we beheld the said detachment of dragoons--an affrighted
mob; and many sinister-looking persons, who seemed well satisfied at the evidence of our fears.
The gentlemen rushed out of the adjoining café, the English calling for their servants and
horses, (many of whom, by the way, who had never possessed any;) one of these fainted--no heart
of oak was he, when our ancient Briton, the commandant, Colonel Jones, again presented himself,
vif et emporté. The spectators exclaimed--"que cela venoit de la trop rapide circulation de
son sang." N'importe: the choleric Colonel, blustering, restored us to comparative tranquillity,
as he brandished on high his sword, giving it an after-sweeping movement, as if to moissonner
nos têtes; my valiant compatriot extended on the pavement was the only head in security. The
Colonel commanded the misled dragoons to return; and it appeared that they had encountered
some miscreants, disguised as British officers, who gave them a forged official order to retreat
"the battle being lost!" We descended through our trap-door, and re-assured our friend the
Comtesse, who seemed to have received our intelligence (en passant) with as perfect calmness
as that in which lay her new-born babe.

