The next retreat came during the two years of his Embassy in Spain. It gave him a respite from
the petty, but none the less rancorous, bickerings of the exiled Court. It offered him a new
period of intercourse with his books. It opened a new world to him in the intricacies of European
diplomacy. Above all, it allowed him once again to renew that spirit of fervent religious devotion,
which always served as the background of his busy life.

Now, in this the third of his retreats, spent and wearied, and, as it might seem, baffled,
he could find consolation in the opportunity of once more adding to his intellectual stores,
enriching his bequest to the world, and amplifying the proud record which should serve as his
vindication to posterity. In his "Devotions on the Psalms," in his replies to Cressy and to
Hobbes, in a crowd of miscellaneous essays on those general ethical topics which were suited
to the taste of that day, and have proved singularly ill-adapted to the taste of our own; above
all, in the completion of his great History of the Rebellion, with which he incorporated his
autobiography, Clarendon found abundant employment for his crowded leisure.

He remained at Montpelier until June, 1671, and thereafter resided at Moulins, until the spring
of 1674. He had the comfort of abundant friends, of frequent correspondence, and of occasional
visits from his sons, Lord Cornbury, and Lawrence Hyde. [Footnote: Lawrence Hyde is always
referred to as "Lory" in his father's correspondence. He became Earl of Rochester.] The management
of his property, so far as he could carry it out in exile, was a source of some annoyance,
but doubtless also helped to keep alive his hope of a return to his country and his home. We
have no details of his life in exile. We only know enough to show that it was one of no listless
indolence, no craven depression, and no vain repining. Clarendon died, as he had lived, with
energy unconquered, with hope unabated, still clinging to all that made human life more noble
in action, more stately in its ordering, more lofty in its ideals. Alike by temperament, by
training, by all that had roused his enthusiastic devotion, and attracted his passionate loyalty,
and by the moulding of a long experience of struggle and of suffering, he was apt to frame
these ideals on the historic records of the past. It was not his to strike out daring enterprises
or to initiate sweeping reforms. He built upon the associations that had been handed down to
him. But the memory of his achievements, marred and blurred as these were by sordid surroundings,
ignoble intrigues, and the disappointments that tried his loyalty, was none the less precious;
nor was the inheritance of his literary accomplishment the less valuable. Can England point
to one who at once filled a larger part in her history, and left a more enduring monument in
the annals of her literature?

Vexations still came to him in these closing years of exile. He had the bitter mortification
of learning, on evidence which he strove to think was not fully proved, that his daughter had
betrayed the traditions of his house and of his teaching, and had been persuaded to accept
those doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church, which he held to be false to the truth, and dangerous
to the welfare of his country. In dignified words, he strove to turn her from that error with
all the weight of a father's authority, which her exalted position as the wife of the Heir
Presumptive did not, in his view, weaken or control; but he heard of her death on March 3lst,
1671, in the thirty-fourth year of her age, as the avowed adherent of a Church of which he
had all his life been a convinced opponent. In June, 1671, through his son Lawrence, then returning
from a visit to Moulins, he addressed a letter to the King, beseeching him, in memory of all
his tried service and his devoted loyalty, to allow that he should return to die in his own
country. In August, 1674, he again addressed the King, the Queen, and the Duke of York, in
words of still more earnest entreaty.

"Seven years," he wrote to the Queen, in asking her aid, "was a time prescribed and limited
by God Himself for the expiration of some of his greatest judgments, and it is full that time
since I have with all possible humility, sustained the insupportable weight of the King's displeasure,
so that I cannot be blamed if I employ the short breath that is remaining in me, in all manner
of supplication, which may contribute to the lessening this burthen that is so heavy upon me.
I do not presume to hope ever to be admitted to your Majesty's presence. Though I have all
imaginable duty, I have no ambition, and only pray for leave to die in my own country amongst
my own children, which I hope his Majesty will at some time vouchsafe to grant."

"It is now full seven years," he wrote to the King, "since I have been deprived of your Majesty's
favour, with some circumstances of mortification which have never been exercised towards any
other man, and therefore I may hope from your good nature and justice, that a severity which
you have never practised upon any other man for half the time, may be diminished in some degree
towards me."

He prays "that you will at least signify your consent that I may return to beg my bread in
England, and to die amongst my own children." In terms as strong and moving he besought the
mediation of the Duke of York. But these appeals, which might have touched the heart of the
sternest tyrant, fell dead upon the selfish cynicism of Charles, deaf at once to the calls
of honour, and to the gratitude due to unswerving loyalty. They met with no response.

In the spring of 1674, Clarendon moved to Rouen, indulging the hope of a return to his country
and his home, and eager to be nearer to answer any summons sent by a relenting sovereign. But
no such summons came, and the weary exile was now at the end of his brave and strenuous labour.
On December 9th, 1674, he breathed his last. His son, Lord Cornbury, was present at his deathbed,
having been summoned when the end was near. The French Court had granted him the privilege
of making testamentary provisions, which otherwise would not have been possible to him as a
foreigner on French soil. His will was dated on December 11th (French style [Footnote: December
1st, according to the English calendar.]), but it related only to his writings and papers,
with which his heirs were to deal subject to the advice of his old friends, Sheldon, Archbishop
of Canterbury, and Morley, Bishop of Winchester. He had probably disposed of his other property
by earlier gifts. His body was brought to England, and was buried in the Henry VII. Chapel
at Westminster. No monument marks the spot where the great Minister rests amongst the monarchs
whose throne he served so well. [Footnote: The name was inscribed on the site of the family
vault, under Dean Stanley, in 1867. Clarendon's mother had been buried there in 1661; and afterwards
his third son, in 1664. It is at the foot of the steps to Henry VII.'s Chapel.] We have endeavoured,
from the varied episodes of his life of strange vicissitude, and from the records of his strenuous
action, of his undaunted courage, and of his well-tried loyalty, to draw the portrait of Lord
Clarendon, to describe his character as we conceive it, and to vindicate his place in history.
We have not sought to conceal his foibles, nor to palliate what may appear to some to be his
prejudices. We are concerned mainly to claim for him, as the first of a long line of Conservative
statesmen, a high ideal of statecraft, a lofty patriotism, and a clear-sighted honesty of purpose.
We admit, without considering it necessary to apologize for, that impetuous temper, which does
not make us love him less, and those traits of self-complacency which were a part of his fearless
candour, and in no wise detract from the dignity of his nature. We have tried to portray the
secret of his influence, his genius for friendship, and the wide range of his outlook upon
the drama of history. We have abundant evidence of the impression of his personality upon life-long
friends, and even upon doubtful critics.

That is the verdict of an acute, but at best a lukewarm, judge.

"Sir Edward Hyde," writes Sir Philip Warwick, "was of a cheerful and agreeable conversation,
of an extraordinary industry and activity, and of a great confidence, which made him soon at
home at a Court... He had a felicity both of tongue and pen, which made him willingly hearkened
unto and much approved."

The gossipping diarist was no inapt observer of the ways of men, and had no small experience.
Evelyn was a more attached and grateful admirer. To him, the great Chancellor was "of a jolly
temper, of the old English fashion." Yet Evelyn had known Clarendon when his courage was most
tried, when his hopes were baffled, and when the sordid crowd of courtiers and profligates
had baited him almost to the death. It is little touches like these that fill in the picture
of the man.

Of his literary achievement this is not the place to speak. It has a secure and proud niche
in the annals of our literature. We have tried to present him as the Statesman and the Man
of Action, and as the tried, the faithful, and the ungrudging, friend.