The extreme singularity of the place has given rise to many superstitious stories, not only
amongst the ancients, but even those of our own times. As it has been penetrated by the hardy
and enterprising to a great distance (on one occasion by an American, who descended by ropes
to a depth of 500 feet), a wild story is current that the cave communicates by a submarine
passage with Africa. The sailors who had visited the rock, and seen the monkeys, which are
seen in no other part of Europe, and are only there occasionally and at intervals, say that
they pass at pleasure by means of the cave to their native land. The truth seems to be that
they usually live in the inaccessible precipices of the eastern side of the rock, where there
is a scanty store of monkey grass for their subsistence; but when an east wind sets in it drives
them from their caves, and they take refuge among the western rocks, where they may be seen
hopping from bush to bush, boxing each other's ears, and cutting the most extraordinary antics.
If disturbed, they scamper off with great rapidity, the young ones jumping on the backs and
putting their arms round the necks of the old, and as they are very harmless, strict orders
have been received from the garrison for their especial protection.

Gibraltar derives its chief importance from its bay, which is about ten miles in length and
eight in breadth, and being protected from the more dangerous winds, is a valuable naval station.

SANTA CLAUS VISITS THE VAN JOHNSONS.
  Debbil tought he would spite me--
    Goin' fur to car' me home,
  By cuttin' down my apple-tree--
    Goin' fur to car' me home;
  But he didn't spite ah-me at all--
    Goin' fur to car' me home;
  Fur I had apples all de fall--
    Goin'--

"Oh, jess shut up wiff yo' ole apples, Chrissfer C'lumbus Van Johnson, an' lissen at dat ar
wat Miss Bowles done bin a-tellin' me," said Queen Victoria, suddenly making her appearance
at the gate which opened out of Mrs. Bowles's back garden into the small yard where her brother
sat with Primrose Ann in his arms.

The Van Johnsons were a colored family who lived in a Southern city in a small three-roomed
wooden house on the lot in the rear of Mrs. Bowles's garden, and Mrs. Bowles was their landlady
and very good friend. Indeed, I don't know what they would have done without her, for when
she came from the North, and rented the big house, they were in the depths of poverty. The
kind lady found them work, gave them bright smiles, words of encouragement, fruit, vegetables,
and spelling lessons, and so won their simple, grateful hearts that they looked upon her as
a miracle of patience, goodness, and wisdom. And as for Baby Bowles--the rosy-cheeked, sweet-voiced,
sunshiny little thing--the whole family, from Primrose Ann up to Mr. Van Johnson, adored her,
and Queen Victoria was "happy as a queen" when allowed to take care of and amuse her.

"Wat's dat ar yo's speakin'?" asked Christopher Columbus (so named, his father said, "'cause
he war da fustest chile, de discoberer ob de family, as it war") as Queen Victoria hopped into
the yard on one leg, and he stopped rocking--if you can call throwing yourself back on the
hind-legs of a common wooden chair, and then coming down on the fore-legs with a bounce and
a bang, rocking--the youngest Van Johnson with such a jerk that her eyes and mouth flew open,
and out of the latter came a tremendous yell. "Dar now," said Christopher Columbus, "yo's done
gone an' woked dis yere Primrose Ann, an' I's bin hours an' hours an' hours an' hours gittin
her asleep. Girls am de wustest bodders I ebber see. I allus dishated girls."

"Ain't yo' 'shamed yo'seff, Chrissfer C'lumbus," said Queen Victoria, indignantly, "wen bofe
yo' sisters am girls? But spect yo' don't want to lissen at wat Miss Bowles done bin a-tellin'
me. Hi! Washington Webster's a-comin', an' I'll jess tell him dat ar secrek all by hisseff."

"No yo' won't; yo' goin' to tell me too," said her big brother. "An' yo' better stop a-rollin'
yo' eyes--yo' got de sassiest eyes I ebber see since de day dat I war bohn--an' go on wiff
yo' story."

"Story?" repeated Washington Webster, sauntering up to them, leading a big cat--dragging, perhaps,
would be the better word, as poor puss was trying hard to get away--by a string.

"'Bout Mahser Zanty Claws," said Queen, opening her eyes so wide that they seemed to spread
over half her face. "Miss Bowles says to-morrer's Chrissmus, an' to-day's day befo' Chrissmus,
an' to-night Mahser Zanty Claws go 'bout"--lowering her voice almost to a whisper--"an' put
tings in chillun's stockin's dat 'haved deirselbs."

"Am Mahser Zanty Claws any lashun to dat ar ole man wiff de allspice hoof?" asked Washington
Webster, with a scared look.

"Allspice hoof! Lissen at dat ar foolish young crow. Clove hoof, yo' means," said Queen Victoria.
"Dat's anodder gemman 'tirely. Mahser Zanty Claws am good. He gits yo' dolls, an' candies,
an' apples, an' nuts, an' books, an' drums, an' wissels, an' new cloze."

"Golly! wish he'd frow some trowsus an' jackits an' sich like fruit 'roun' here," said Christopher
Columbus.

"Trowsus wiff red 'spenders an' a pistil pockit," said Washington Webster, "an' a gole watch,
an' a sled all yaller, wiff green stars on it, an'--"

"Yo' bofe talk 's if yo'd bin awful good," interrupted Queen Victoria. "Maybe Mahser Zanty
Claws disagree wiff yo'."

"Who dat ar done gone git her head cracked wiff de wooden spoon fur gobblin' all de hom'ny
befo' de breakfuss war ready?" said Washington Webster, slyly.

"I 'most wish dar war no Washington Websters in de hull worle--I certainly do. Dey's too sassy
to lib," said Queen Victoria. "An' sich busybodies--dey certainly is."

"But how am we to know wedder we's Mahser Zanty Claws's kine o' good chillun?" said Christopher
Columbus. "We's might be good nuff fur ourseffs, an' not good nuff fur him. If I knowed he
come yere certain sure, I git some green ornamuntses from ole Pete Campout--he done gone got
hunderds an' hunderds an' piles an' piles--to stick up on de walls, an' make de house look
more despectable like."

"Let's go an' ax Miss Bowles," said Queen Victoria. "Baby Bowles am fass asleep, an' she's
in de kitchen makin' pies, an' she know ebberyting--she certainly do."

And off they all trooped, Primrose Ann, cat, and all.

"Come in," called the pleasant voice of their landlady, when they rapped on her door; and in
they tumbled, asking the same question all together in one breath: "Mahser Zanty Claws comin'
to our house, Miss Bowles?" Christopher Columbus adding, "'Pears dough we muss ornamentem some
if he do."

Mrs. Bowles crimped the edge of her last pie, and then sat down, the children standing in a
row before her.

"Have you all been very good?" she said. "Suppose you tell me what good thing you have done
since yesterday afternoon. Then I can guess about Santa Claus."

"Primrose Ann cried fur dat ar orange yo' gib me," said Queen Victoria, after a moment's thought,
"an' I eat it up quick 's I could, an' didn't gib her none, 'cause I's 'fraid she git de stummick-ache."

"I car'd home de washin' fur mommy fur two cakes an' some candy," said Washington Webster.

"And you?" asked Mrs. Bowles, turning to Christopher Columbus.

"I ran 'way from 'Dolphus Snow, an' wouldn't fight him, 'cause I 'fraid I hurt him," said Christopher,
gravely.

Mrs. Bowles laughed merrily. "Go home and ornament," she said. "I am sure Santa Claus will
pay you a visit."

And he did; for on Christmas morning, when the young Van Johnsons rushed pell-mell, helter-skelter,
into the room prepared for his call, a new jacket hung on one chair, a new pair of trousers
on the other; a doll's head peeped out of Queen Victoria's stocking; a new sled, gayly painted,
announced itself in big letters "The Go Ahead"; lots of toys were waiting for Primrose Ann;
and four papers of goodies reposed on the lowest shelf of the cupboard.

"'Pears dat ar Mahser Zanty Claws don't take zact measure fur boys' cloze," said Christopher
Columbus, as he tried to struggle into the jacket. "Dis yere jackit's twicet too small."

"An' dis yere trowsusloons am twicet too big," said Washington Webster, as he drew them up
to his armpits.

"Lor' bress you, honey-bugs!" called their mommy from the doorway, "yo' has got tings mixed.
Dat ar jackit's fur de odder boy, an' dem trowsus too." And they all burst out laughing as
Christopher Columbus and Washington Webster exchanged Christmas gifts, and laughed so loud
that Mrs. Bowles came, over to see what was the matter, bringing Baby Bowles, who, seeing how
jolly everybody was, began clapping her tiny hands, and shouting, "Melly Kissme! melly Kissme!"

PET AND HER CAT.

  Now, Pussy, I've something to tell you:
    You know it is New-Year's Day;
  The big folks are down in the parlor,
    And mamma is just gone away.

  We are all alone in the nursery,
    And I want to talk to you, dear;
  So you must come and sit by me,
    And make believe you hear.

  You see, there's a new year coming--
    It only begins to-day.
  Do you know I was often naughty
    In the year that is gone away?

  You know I have some bad habits,
    I'll mention just one or two;
  But there really is quite a number
    Of naughty things that I do.

  You see, I don't learn my lessons,
    And oh! I do hate them so;
  I doubt if I know any more to-day
    Than I did a year ago.

  Perhaps I am awfully stupid;
    They say I'm a dreadful dunce.
  How would you like to learn spelling?
    I wish you could try it once.

  And don't you remember Christmas--
    'Twas naughty, I must confess--
  But while I was eating my dinner
    I got two spots on my dress.

  And they caught me stealing the sugar;
    But I only got two little bits,
  When they found me there in the closet,
    And frightened me out of my wits.

  And, Pussy, when people scold me,
    I'm always so sulky then;
  If they only would tell me gently,
    I never would do it again.

  Oh, Pussy! I know I am naughty,
    And often it makes me cry:
  I think it would count for something,
    If they knew how hard I try.

  But I'll try again in the new year,
    And oh! I shall be so glad
  If I only can be a good little girl,
    And never do anything bad!

HOW SUNKEN SHIPS ARE RAISED.

When a ship sinks some distance from the shore in several fathoms of water, and the waves conceal
her, it may seem impossible to some of our readers that she can ever be floated again; but
if she rests upon a firm sandy bottom, without rocks, and the weather is fair enough for a
time to give the wreckers an opportunity, it is even probable that she can be brought into port.

In Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Norfolk, and New Orleans, large firms are established
whose special business it is to send assistance to distressed vessels, and to save the cargo
if the vessels themselves can not be prevented from becoming total wrecks; and these firms
are known as wreckers--a name which in the olden time was given to a class of heartless men
dwelling on the coast who lured ships ashore by false lights for the sake of the spoils which
the disaster brought them.

When a vessel is announced to be ashore or sunk, the owners usually apply to the wreckers,
and make a bargain with them that they shall receive a certain proportion of her value if they
save her, and the wreckers then proceed to the scene of the accident, taking with them powerful
tug-boats, large pontoons, immense iron cables, and a massive derrick.

