The character of Charlemagne can alone be appreciated by comparing it with the barbarism of
the times from which he emerged; nor do his virtues or his talents acquire any fictitious grandeur
from opposition with objects around; for, though "the ruins of Palmyra derive a casual splendour
from the nakedness of the surrounding desert,"[9] his excellence lay not alone in adorning,
but in cultivating the waste. His military successes were prepared by the wars and victories
both of Pepin and Charles Martel; but one proof of the vast comprehensiveness of his mind,
is to be found in the immense undertakings which he accomplished with the same means which
two great monarchs had employed on very inferior enterprises. The dazzling rapidity with which
each individual expedition was executed, was perhaps less wonderful, than the clear precision
with which each was designed, and the continuous, persevering, unconquerable determination
wherewith each general plan was pursued to its close. The materials for his wars,--the brave,
the active, and the hardy soldiers,--had been formed by his father and by nature; but when
those troops were to be led through desert and unknown countries, into which Pepin had never
dreamed of penetrating, and in an age when geography was hardly known--when they were to be
supplied at a distance from all their resources, in a land where roads were unheard of, and
provisions too scanty for the inhabitants themselves--the success was attributable to Charlemagne,
and the honour is his due. His predecessors had contented themselves with leading an army at
once against the point they intended to assail, or against the host they proposed to combat;
but Charlemagne was the first in modern Europe who introduced the great improvement in the
art of war, of pouring large bodies of men, by different roads, into the hostile country; of
teaching them to co-operate, though separate, to concentrate when required; and of combining
their efforts and their movements for a general purpose on a preconcerted plan.

    [9] Gibbon makes this observation in depreciation of the
    character of Charlemagne, forgetting or concealing that the
    great beauty of the French monarch's character appeared not from
    a contrast with surrounding barbarism, but from his efforts to
    do away that barbarism itself.

His great success in civilization was all his own. Nothing had been done by those who went
before--scarcely a germ--scarcely a seed had been left him. He took possession of a kingdom
torn by factions, surrounded by enemies, desolated by long wars, disorganized by intestine
strife, and as profoundly ignorant as the absence of all letters could make it. By the continual
and indefatigable exertion of mental and corporeal powers, such as probably were never united
but in himself, he restored order and harmony, brought back internal tranquillity, secured
individual safety, raised up sciences and arts; and so convinced a barbarous nation of the
excellence of his own ameliorating spirit, that on their consent and approbation he founded
all his efforts, and sought no support in his mighty undertaking, but the love and confidence
of his people.

He was ambitious, it is true; but his ambition was of the noblest kind. He was generous, magnanimous,
liberal, humane, and brave; but he was frugal, simple, moderate, just, and prudent. Though
easily appeased in his enmities, his friendships were deep and permanent; and, though hasty
and severe to avenge his friends, he was merciful and placable, when personally injured.

In mind, he was blessed with all those happy facilities, which were necessary to success in
the great enterprizes which he undertook. His eloquence[10] was strong, abundant, and clear;
and a great talent for acquiring foreign tongues added to his powers of expression. The same
quickness of comprehension rendered every other study light, though undertaken in the midst
of a thousand varied occupations, and at an age to which great capabilities of acquisition
are not in general extended.

    [10] He is described by Eginhard as "apice capitis rotundo,"
    which roundness or fullness of the top of the head must have
    been very peculiar to have deserved such especial mention.

His person was handsome and striking. His countenance was fine, open, and bland, his features
high, and his eyes large and sparkling. His figure was remarkable for its fine proportions;
and though somewhat inclined to obesity in his latter years, we are told that, whether sitting
or standing, there was always something in his appearance which breathed of dignity, and inspired
respect.

He was sober and abstemious in his food, and simple to an extreme in his garments. Passionately
fond of robust exercises, they formed his great relaxation and amusement; but he never neglected
the business of the public for his private pleasure, nor yielded one moment to repose or enjoyment
which could be more profitably employed. His activity, his quickness, and his indefatigable
energy in conducting the affairs of state, having already been spoken of at large, it only
remains to be said, that in private life he was gentle, cheerful, affectionate, and kind; and
that--with his dignity guarded by virtues, talents, and mighty renown--he frequently laid aside
the pomp of empire, and the sternness of command.

No man, perhaps, that ever lived, combined in so high a degree those qualities which rule men
and direct events, with those which endear the possessor and attach his contemporaries. No
man was ever more trusted and loved by his people, more respected and feared by other kings,
more esteemed in his lifetime, or more regretted at his death.

[The illustrations to this volume, though few, are of the highest character. The frontispiece
portrait has been procured by a friend, for Mr. James, from the original illumination in the
monastery of Saint Calisto, in Rome. We recommend it to the manufacturers of school books,
wherein, if our memory serve us, the great man of the middle ages is very inaccurately represented;
though we could write a few pages upon the foolish errors, which, for want of a little care,
are perpetuated in "books for the instruction of youth."]

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF DISCOVERY

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CASHMERE SHAWL GOAT

