Love is always sacrificial, and so the Christmas spirit will call us to a glad and full surrender,
first to God, and then the joyful sacrifice of what we call our own for His glory and the good
of others.

The Christmas spirit is a spirit of worship. It finds the Magi at His feet with their gold
and frankincense and myrrh. Let it find us there, too.

The Christmas spirit is a spirit of missions. Its glad tidings are for all people.

DECEMBER 26.

“The Spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy” (James iv. 5).

This beautiful passage has been unhappily translated in our Revised Version: “The Spirit that
dwelleth in us lusteth to envy.” It ought to be, “The Spirit that dwelleth in us loveth us
to jealousy.” It is the figure of a love that suffers because of its intense regard for the
loved object.

The Holy Ghost is so anxious to accomplish in us and for us the highest will of God, and to
receive from us the truest love for Christ, our Divine Husband, that He becomes jealous when
in any way we disappoint Him, or divide His love with others. Shall we disappoint so loving
a Husband? Shall we not meet the blessed Holy Spirit with the love He brings us, and give in
return our undivided and unbounded affection?

Was there ever a Bridegroom so loving seeking our heart to gain?

DECEMBER 27.

“He sent forth the dove which returned not again unto him” (Gen. viii. 12).

First, we have the dove going forth from the ark, and finding no rest upon the wild and drifting
waste of sin and judgment. This represents the Old Testament period, perhaps, when the Holy
Ghost visited this sinful world, but could find no resting-place, and went back to the bosom
of God.

Next, we have the dove going forth and returning with the olive leaf in her mouth, the symbol
and the pledge of peace and reconciliation, the sign that judgment was passed and peace was
returning. Surely this may beautifully represent the next stage of the Holy Spirit’s manifestation,
as going forth in the ministry and death of Jesus Christ, to proclaim reconciliation to a sinful
world.

There is a third stage, when, at length, the dove goes forth from the ark and returns no more;
but it makes the world its home, and builds its nest amid the habitations of men. This is the
third and present stage of the Holy Spirit’s blessed work. Let us welcome the Dove to a nest
in our hearts.

DECEMBER 28.

“The Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey Him” (Acts v. 32).

We can only know and prove the fulness of the Spirit as we step out into the larger purposes
and plans of Christ for the world.

Perhaps the chief reason why the Holy Spirit has been so limited in His work in the hearts
of Christians, is the shameful neglect of the unsaved and unevangelized world by the great
majority of the professed followers of Christ. There are millions of professing Christians—and,
perhaps, real Christians—in the world, who have never given one real, earnest thought to the
evangelization of the heathen world.

God will not give the Holy Spirit in His fulness for the selfish enjoyment of any Christian.
His power is a great trust, which we must use for the benefit of others and for the evangelization
of the lost and sinful world. Not until the people of God awake to understand His real purpose
for the salvation of men, will the Church ever know the fulness of her Pentecost. God’s promised
power must lie along the line of duty, and as we obey the command, we shall receive His promise
in his fulness.

Lord, help me to understand Thy plan.

DECEMBER 29.

“I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God” (Acts xx. 27).

It is probable that God lets every human being, that crosses our path, meet us, in order that
we may have the opportunity of leaving some blessing in his path, and dropping into his heart
and life some influence that will draw him nearer to God. It would be blessed, indeed, if we
could meet every immortal soul, at last, that we have ever touched in the path of life, and
truly say, “I am pure from the blood of all men.”

Beloved, is it so? The servant that works in your household; the man that sat beside you in
the train; the laborer that wrought for you, and, above all, the members of your household
and family, your fellow-laborer in the shop or factory, have you done your best to lead them
to Christ?

The early Christians regarded every situation as an opportunity to witness for Christ. Even
when brought before kings and governors, it never occurred to them that they were to try to
get free, but the Master’s message to them was, “It shall turn to you for a testimony.” It
was simply an occasion to preach to kings and rulers, whom otherwise they could not reach.

DECEMBER 30.

“That God would fulfil in you all the good pleasure of His goodness, and the work of faith
with power” (II. Thess. i. 11).

Our God is looking to-day for pattern men, and when He gets a true sample, it is very easy
to reproduce it in a thousand editions, and multiply it in other lives without limitation.

All the experiences of life come to us as tests, and as we meet them, our loving Father is
watching with intense and jealous love, to see us overcome, and if we fail He is deeply disappointed,
and our adversary is filled with joy.

We are a gazing-stock continually for angels and principalities, and every step we take is
critical and decisive for something in our eternal future.

When Abraham went forth that morning to Mount Moriah, it was an hour of solemn probation, and
when he came back he was one of God’s tested men, with the stamp of His eternal approbation.
God could say, “I know him, that he will do judgment and justice, that the Lord may bring upon
Abraham all that He hath spoken.”

God is looking for such men to-day. Lord, help me to be such an one.

DECEMBER 31.

“I pray not that Thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that Thou shouldst keep them
from the evil” (John xvii. 15).

He wants us here for some higher purpose than mere existence. That purpose is nothing else
than to represent Him to the world, to be the messengers of His Gospel and His will to men,
and by our lives to exhibit to them the true life, and teach them how to live it themselves.

He is representing us yonder, and our one business is to represent Him here. We are just as
truly sent into this world to represent Him as if we had gone to China as the ambassador of
the American Government.

While engaged in the secular affairs of life, it is simply that we may represent Him there,
carry on His business, and have means to use for His affairs. He came here from another realm,
and with a special message, and when His work was done He was called to go home to His Father’s
dwelling-place and His own.

Lord, help me to worthily represent Thee.

And carry music in our heart Through busy street and wrangling mart; Plying our daily task
with busier feet, Because our souls a heavenly strain repeat.