By Canoe and Dog-Train

By Egerton Ryerson Young

BY CANOE AND DOG-TRAIN

BY EGERTON RYERSON YOUNG

CHAPTER ONE.

THE SUMMONS TO THE INDIAN WORK--THE DECISION--THE VALEDICTORY SERVICES-- DR. PUNSHON--THE DEPARTURE--LEAVING
HAMILTON--ST. CATHERINE'S--MILWAUKEE CUSTOM-HOUSE DELAYS--MISSISSIPPI--ST. PAUL'S--ON THE PRAIRIES--FRONTIER
SETTLERS--NARROW ESCAPE FROM SHOOTING ONE OF OUR SCHOOL TEACHERS--SIOUX INDIANS AND THEIR WARS--SAVED
BY OUR FLAG--VARIED EXPERIENCES.

Several letters were handed into my study, where I sat at work among my books.

I was then pastor of a Church in the city of Hamilton.  Showers of blessing had been descending
upon us, and over a hundred and forty new members had but recently been received into the Church.
I had availed myself of the Christmas holidays by getting married, and now was back again with
my beloved, when these letters were handed in.  With only one of them have we at present anything
to do.  As near as I can remember, it read as follows:--

  "Mission Rooms, Toronto, 1868.

  "Reverend Egerton R.  Young.

  "Dear Brother,--At a large and influential meeting of the Missionary
  Committee, held yesterday, it was unanimously decided to ask you to go
  as a missionary to the Indian tribes at Norway House, and in the
  North-West Territories north of Lake Winnipeg.  An early answer
  signifying your acceptance of this will much oblige,

  "Yours affectionately,

  "E.  Wood,

  "L.  Taylor."

I read the letter, and then handed it, without comment, across the table to Mrs Young--the
bride of but a few days--for her perusal.  She read it over carefully, and then, after a quiet
moment, as was quite natural, asked, "What does this mean?"

"I can hardly tell," I replied; "but it is evident that it means a good deal."

"Have you volunteered to go as a missionary to that far-off land?" she asked.

"Why, no.  Much as I love, and deeply interested as I have ever been in the missionary work
of our Church, I have not made the first move in this direction.  Years ago I used to think
I would love to go to a foreign field, but lately, as the Lord has been so blessing us here
in the home work, and has given us such a glorious revival, I should have thought it like running
away from duty to have volunteered for any other field."

"Well, here is this letter; what are you going to do about it?"

"That is just what I would like to know," was my answer.

"There is one thing we can do," she said quietly; and we bowed ourselves in prayer, and "spread
the letter before the Lord," and asked for wisdom to guide us aright in this important matter
which had so suddenly come upon us, and which, if carried out, would completely change all
the plans and purposes which we, the young married couple, in all the joyousness of our honeymoon,
had just been marking out.  We earnestly prayed for Divine light and guidance to be so clearly
revealed that we could not be mistaken as to our duty.

As we arose from our knees, I quietly said to Mrs Young, "Have you any impression on your mind
as to our duty in this matter?"

Her eyes were suffused in tears, but the voice, though low, was firm, as she replied, "The
call has come very unexpectedly, but I think it is from God, and we will go."

My Church and its kind officials strongly opposed my leaving them, especially at such a time
as this, when, they said, so many new converts, through my instrumentality, had been brought
into the Church.

I consulted my beloved ministerial brethren in the city, and with but one exception the reply
was, "Remain at your present station, where God has so abundantly blessed your labours."  The
answer of the one brother who did not join in with the others has never been forgotten.  As
it may do good, I will put it on record.  When I showed him the letter, and asked what I should
do in reference to it, he, much to my surprise, became deeply agitated, and wept like a child.
When he could control his emotions, he said, "For my answer let me give you a little of my history.

"Years ago, I was very happily situated in the ministry in the Old Land. I loved my work, my
home, and my wife passionately.  I had the confidence and esteem of my people, and thought
I was as happy as I could be this side [of] heaven.  One day there came a letter from the Wesleyan
Mission Rooms in London, asking if I would go out as a missionary to the West Indies.  Without
consideration, and without making it a matter of prayer, I at once sent back a positive refusal.

"From that day," he continued, "everything went wrong with me.  Heaven's smile seemed to have
left me.  I lost my grip upon my people.  My influence for good over them left me, I could
not tell how.  My once happy home was blasted, and in all my trouble I got no sympathy from
my Church or in the community.  I had to resign my position, and leave the place.  I fell into
darkness, and lost my hold upon God.  A few years ago I came out to this country.  God has
restored me to the light of His countenance.  The Church has been very sympathetic and indulgent.
For years I have been permitted to labour in her fold, and for this I rejoice.  But," he added,
with emphasis, "I long ago came to the resolve that if ever the Church asked me to go to the
West Indies, or to any other Mission field, I would be careful about sending back an abrupt
refusal."

I pondered over his words and his experience, and talked about them with my good wife, and
we decided to go.  Our loving friends were startled at our resolve, but soon gave us their
benedictions, united to tangible evidences of their regard.  A blessed peace filled our souls,
and we longed to be away and at work in the new field which had so suddenly opened before us.

  "Yes, we will go.  We may no longer doubt
  To give up friends, and home, and every tie,
  That binds our heart to thee, our country.
  Henceforth, then,
  It matters not if storms or sunshine be
  Our earthly lot, bitter or sweet our cup.
  We only pray, God fit us for the work,
  God make us holy, and our spirits nerve
  For the stern hour of strife.  Let us but know
  There is an Arm unseen that holds us up,
  An Eye that kindly watches all our path,
  Till we our weary pilgrimage have done.
  Let us but know we have a Friend that waits
  To welcome us to glory, and we joy
  To tread that drear and northern wilderness."

The grand valedictory services were held in the old Richmond Street Church, Toronto, Thursday,
May 7th, 1868.  The church was crowded, and the enthusiasm was very great.  The honoured President
of the Conference for that year, the Reverend James Elliott, who presided, was the one who
had ordained me a few months before.  Many were the speakers.  Among them was the Reverend
George McDougall, who already had had a varied experience of missionary life.  He had something
to talk about, to which it was worth listening.  The Reverend George Young, also, had much
that was interesting to say, as he was there bidding farewell to his own Church and to the
people, of whom he had long been the beloved pastor. Dr Punshon, who had just arrived from
England, was present, and gave one of his inimitable magnetic addresses.  The memory of his
loving, cheering words abode with us for many a day.

It was also a great joy to us that my honoured father, the Reverend William Young, was with
us on the platform at this impressive farewell service.  For many years he had been one of
that heroic band of pioneer ministers in Canada who had laid so grandly and well the foundations
of the Church which, with others, had contributed so much to the spiritual development of the
country.  His benedictions and blessings were among the prized favours in these eventful hours
in our new career.

