Let us now return to natural history. There was a person making shingles with twenty or thirty
negroes not far from Mibiri Hill. I had offered a reward to any of them who would find a good-sized
snake in the forest and come and let me know where it was. Often had these negroes looked for
a large snake, and as often been disappointed.

One Sunday morning I met one of them in the forest, and asked him which way he was going: he
said he was going towards Waratilla Creek to hunt an armadillo; and he had his little dog with
him. On coming back, about noon, the dog began to bark at the root of a large tree which had
been upset by the whirlwind and was lying there in a gradual state of decay. The negro said
he thought his dog was barking at an acouri which had probably taken refuge under the tree,
and he went up with an intention to kill it; he there saw a snake, and hastened back to inform
me of it.

The sun had just passed the meridian in a cloudless sky; there was scarcely a bird to be seen,
for the winged inhabitants of the forest, as though overcome by heat, had retired to the thickest
shade: all would have been like midnight silence were it not for the shrill voice of the pi-pi-yo,
every now and then resounded from a distant tree. I was sitting with a little Horace in my
hand, on what had once been the steps which formerly led up to the now mouldering and dismantled
building. The negro and his little dog came down the hill in haste, and I was soon informed
that a snake had been discovered; but it was a young one, called the bush-master, a rare and
poisonous snake.

I instantly rose up, and laying hold of the eight-foot lance which was close by me, "Well,
then, Daddy," said I, "we'll go and have a look at the snake." I was barefoot, with an old
hat, and check shirt, and trousers on, and a pair of braces to keep them up. The negro had
his cutlass, and as we ascended the hill another negro, armed with a cutlass, joined us, judging
from our pace that there was something to do. The little dog came along with us, and when we
had got about half a mile in the forest the negro stopped and pointed to the fallen tree: all
was still and silent. I told the negroes not to stir from the place where they were, and keep
the little dog in, and that I would go in and reconnoitre.

I advanced up to the place slow and cautious. The snake was well concealed, but at last I made
him out; it was a coulacanara, not poisonous, but large enough to have crushed any of us to
death. On measuring him afterwards he was something more than fourteen feet long. This species
of snake is very rare, and much thicker in proportion to his length than any other snake in
the forest. A coulacanara of fourteen feet in length is as thick as a common boa of twenty-four.
After skinning this snake I could easily get my head into his mouth, as the singular formation
of the jaws admits of wonderful extension.

A Dutch friend of mine, by name Brouwer, killed a boa twenty-two feet long with a pair of stag's
horns in his mouth. He had swallowed the stag, but could not get the horns down; so he had
to wait in patience with that uncomfortable mouthful till his stomach digested the body, and
then the horns would drop out. In this plight the Dutchman found him as he was going in his
canoe up the river, and sent a ball through his head.

On ascertaining the size of the serpent which the negro had just found, I retired slowly the
way I came, and promised four dollars to the negro who had shown it to me, and one to the other
who had joined us. Aware that the day was on the decline, and that the approach of night would
be detrimental to the dissection, a thought struck me that I could take him alive. I imagined
if I could strike him with the lance behind the head, and pin him to the ground, I might succeed
in capturing him. When I told this to the negroes they begged and entreated me to let them
go for a gun and bring more force, as they were sure the snake would kill some of us.

I had been at the siege of Troy for nine years, and it would not do now to carry back to Greece
"nil decimo nisi dedecus anno." I mean I had been in search of a large serpent for years, and
now having come up with one it did not become me to turn soft. So, taking a cutlass from one
of the negroes, and then ranging both the sable slaves behind me, I told them to follow me,
and that I would cut them down if they offered to fly. I smiled as I said this, but they shook
their heads in silence and seemed to have but a bad heart of it.

When we got up to the place the serpent had not stirred, but I could see nothing of his head,
and I judged by the folds of his body that it must be at the farthest side of his den. A species
of woodbine had formed a complete mantle over the branches of the fallen tree, almost impervious
to the rain or the rays of the sun. Probably he had resorted to this sequestered place for
a length of time, as it bore marks of an ancient settlement.

I now took my knife, determining to cut away the woodbine and break the twigs in the gentlest
manner possible, till I could get a view of his head. One negro stood guard close behind me
with the lance; and near him the other with a cutlass. The cutlass which I had taken from the
first negro was on the ground close by me in case of need.

After working in dead silence for a quarter of an hour, with one knee all the time on the ground,
I had cleared away enough to see his head. It appeared coming out betwixt the first and second
coil of his body, and was flat on the ground. This was the very position I wished it to be in.

I rose in silence and retreated very slowly, making a sign to the negroes to do the same. The
dog was sitting at a distance in mute observance. I could now read in the face of the negroes
that they considered this as a very unpleasant affair; and they made another attempt to persuade
me to let them go for a gun. I smiled in a good-natured manner, and made a feint to cut them
down with the weapon I had in my hand. This was all the answer I made to their request, and
they looked very uneasy.

It must be observed we were now about twenty yards from the snake's den. I now ranged the negroes
behind me, and told him who stood next to me to lay hold of the lance the moment I struck the
snake, and that the other must attend my movements. It now only remained to take their cutlasses
from them, for I was sure if I did not disarm them they would be tempted to strike the snake
in time of danger, and thus for ever spoil his skin. On taking their cutlasses from them, if
I might judge from their physiognomy, they seemed to consider it as a most intolerable act
of tyranny in me. Probably nothing kept them from bolting but the consolation that I was to
be betwixt them and the snake. Indeed, my own heart, in spite of all I could do, beat quicker
than usual; and I felt those sensations which one has on board a merchant-vessel in war-time,
when the captain orders all hands on deck to prepare for action, while a strange vessel is
coming down upon us under suspicious colours.

We went slowly on in silence without moving our arms or heads, in order to prevent all alarm
as much as possible, lest the snake should glide off or attack us in self-defence. I carried
the lance perpendicularly before me, with the point about a foot from the ground. The snake
had not moved; and on getting up to him I struck him with the lance on the near-side, just
behind the neck, and pinned him to the ground. That moment the negro next to me seized the
lance and held it firm in its place, while I dashed head foremost into the den to grapple with
the snake and to get hold of his tail before he could do any mischief.

