"The young Prince, (says this Author in the Tatler,) was not yet acquainted with all the Guilt
of his Mother; but turns his Thoughts on her sudden Forgetfulness of his Father, and the Indecency
of her hasty Marriage. The several Emotions of Mind, and Breaks of Passion in this Speech,
are admirable. He has touch'd every Circumstance that aggravated the Fact, and seem'd capable
of hurrying the Thoughts of a Son into Distraction. His Father's Tenderness for his Mother,
express'd in so delicate a Particular; his Mother's Fondness for his Father, no less exquisitely
described; the great and amiable Figure of his dead Parent, drawn by a true Filial Piety; his
Disdain of so unworthy a Successor to his Bed: But above all, the Shortness of the Time between
his Father's Death, and his Mother's Second Marriage, brought together with so much Disorder,
make up as noble a Part as any in that celebrated Tragedy. The Circumstance of Time I never
could enough admire. The Widow-hood had lasted two Months. This is his first Reflection: But
as his Indignation rises, he sinks to scarce two Months; afterwards into a Month; and at last,
into a little Month. But all this so naturally, that the Reader accompanies him in the Violence
of his Passion, and finds the Time lessen insensibly, according to the different Workings of
his Disdain. I have not mentioned the Incest of her Marriage, which is so obvious a Provocation;
but can't forbear taking Notice, that when his Fury is at its Height, he cries, Frailty, thy
Name is Woman! as Railing at the Sex in general, rather than giving himself leave to think
his Mother worse than Others."

Page 238.

Enter Horatio, Bernardo, and Marcellus, to Hamlet.

The Greeting between Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus, is very easy, and expresses the benign
Disposition of the Prince, and first gives us an Intimation of his Friendship for Horatio.

Page 238.

We'll teach you to drink deep, e'er you depart.

This seems designed to reflect upon the sottish Disposition, then encouraged amongst the Danes
by the Usurper, as will appear in the Sequel; and gives us one Reason why Elsinoor was disagreeable
to Prince Hamlet; and certainly, much confirms what I before said, as to his going back to
Wittenberg.

Page 238.

The Prince's Reflections on his Mother's hasty Marriage, are very natural, and shew That to
be one of the principal Causes of the deep fix'd Concern so visible in his Behaviour; and then
they serve to introduce the Relation of the Appearance of his Father's Ghost.

Page 238, to the End of the Scene.

Hamlet receives the Account they give him with such a Surprize as is very natural, and particularly
his breaking off from the Consequence of his Question, viz. Hold you the Watch to Night? and
saying arm'd? that is, returning to the main Question, is exceedingly in Nature.

Their differing in the Account of the Time the Spectre staid, throws an Air of Probability
on the Whole, which is much easier felt than described.

The Prince's Resolution to speak to the Phantom, let what will be the Consequence, is entirely
suitable to his Heroical Disposition; and his Reflection upon his Father's Spirit appearing
in Arms, is such as one would naturally expect from him; and the Moral Sentence he ends his
short Speech with, suits his virtuous Temper, at the same Time that it has a good Effect upon
the Audience, and answers the End of Tragedy.

Page 241, to the End of the Scene, in p. 246.

SCENE in Polonius's House.

Enter Laertes and Ophelia, and afterwards Polonius.

It is evident by the whole Tenour of Polonius's Behaviour in this Play, that he is intended
to represent some Buffoonish Statesman, not too much fraught with Honesty. Whether any particular
Person's Character was herein aim'd at, I shall not determine, because it is not to the Purpose;
for whoever reads our Author's Plays, will find that in all of them, (even the most serious
ones) he has some regard for the meanest Part of his Audience, and perhaps too, for that Taste
for low Jokes and Punns, which prevailed in his Time among the better Sort. This, I think,
was more pardonable in him, when it was confined to Clowns, and such like Persons in his Plays;
but is by no Means excusable in a Man, supposed to be in such a Station as Polonius is, Nay,
granting that such Ministers of State were common, (which surely they are not) it would even
then be a Fault in our Author to introduce them in such Pieces as this; for every Thing that
is natural is not to be made use of improperly: But when it is out of Nature, this certainly
much aggravates the Poet's Mistake. And, to speak Truth, all Comick Circumstances, all Things
tending to raise a Laugh, are highly offensive in Tragedies to good Judges; the Reason in my
Opinion is evident, viz. that such Things degrade the Majesty and Dignity of Tragedy, and destroy
the Effect of the Intention which the Spectators had in being present at such Representations;
that is, to acquire that pleasing Melancholy of Mind, which is caus'd by them, and that Satisfaction
which arises from the Consciousness that we are mov'd as we ought to be, and that we consequently
have Sentiments suitable to the Dignity of our Nature. For these and many other Reasons, too
long to mention here, I must confess myself to be an Enemy also to all ludicrous Epilogues
and Farcical Pieces, at the End of Tragedies; and must think them full as ridiculous as if
we were to dress a Monarch in all his Royal Robes, and then put a Fool's Cap upon him.

But to come to the Scene now under Examination. It is certain, that except it be in playing
upon the Word Tender p. 244. (of which too he is sensible himself,) our old Statesman behaves
suitably to his Dignity, and acts fully up to his Paternal Character; so here we shall not tax him.

The Advice of Laertes to his Sister contains the soundest Reasoning, express'd in the most
nervous and poetical Manner, and is full of Beauties; particularly, I can never enough admire
the Modesty inculcated in these Lines:

   The chariest Maid is prodigal enough,
   If She unmask her Beauty to the Moon.

Ophelia's modest Replies, the few Words she uses, and the virtuous Caution she gives her Brother,
after his Advice to her, are inimitably charming. This I have observed in general in our Author's
Plays, that almost all his young Women (who are designed as good Characters) are made to behave
with a Modesty and Decency peculiar to those Times, and which are of such pleasing Simplicity
as seem too ignorant and unmeaning in our well taught knowing Age; so much do we despise the
virtuous Plainness of our Fore-fathers!

Polonius and Laertes Behaviour to each other, is exceeding natural; and I agree with Mr. Theobalds's
Emendation as to that Circumstance, (p. 243.) of Polonius Blessing his Son; but I can by no
Means be of his Sentiment, that it was a Circumstance, which, if well managed by a Comick Actor,
would raise a Laugh, (See his Note, p. 243.) for I am perswaded, that Shakespeare was too good
a Judge of Nature, to design any Thing Comick or Buffoonish upon so solemn an Occasion, as
that of a Son's taking leave of his Father in the most emphatical and serious Manner. And therefore,
whatever Actor proceeds upon this Supposition (as I have seen some do in parallel Cases) does
only shew his Ignorance and Presumption. This Assertion of mine will appear indisputable, if
my Reader considers well the whole Tenour of this Scene, with the grave and excellent Instructions
which it contains, from Polonius to Laertes, and from both to Ophelia. It is impossible that
any Buffoonry could be here blended, to make void and insignificant so much good Sense expressed
in the true Beauties of Poetry. As to Prince Hamlet's Love for Ophelia, I shall speak to it
in another Place.

Concerning the Design of this Scene, we shall find it is necessary towards the whole Plot of
the Play, and is by no Means an Episode. As to Laertes's Character, I shall lay some thing
of it else where.

Page 246

Scene. The Platform before the Palace.

Enter Hamlet, Horatio and Marcellus.

The Beginning of this Scene is easy and natural. The King's taking his Rowse, seems introduced
to fill up a necessary Space of Time, and also perhaps to blacken still more the Character
of the Usurper, who had revived a sottish Custom (as appears by the Prince's Remarks upon it)
omitted by several of his Predecessors; for it would have been improper to have had the Ghost
appear the Minute the Prince was come on to the Platform. Some Time was requisite to prepare
the Minds of the Spectators, that they might collect all their Faculties to behold this important
Scene, on which turns the whole Play, with due Attention and Seriousness; although, indeed,
I must think that the Prince's Speech would not be much worth preserving, but for That Reason:
for expressed and amended, according to the best that can be made of it, (as Mr. Theobalds
has done it) it is but of very obsure Diction, and is much too long; for a very short Moral
is to be drawn from it.

Page 248.

Enter the Ghost.

We now are come to the sublimest Scene in this whole Piece, a Scene worthy of the greatest
Attention; an Heroical Youth addressing the Shade of his departed Father, whom he tenderly
loved, and who, we are told, was a Monarch of the greatest Worth. Surely there cannot be imagin'd
any Scene more capable of stirring up our noblest Passions. Let us but observe with how much
Beauty and Art the Poet has managed it. This Spectre has been once spoken to by the Friend
of our young Hero, and it must be confessed, that Horatio's Speech to it is truly great and
beautiful: But as the like Incident was again to happen; that is, as the Ghost was again to
be addressed, and with this Addition, by the Hero of the Play, and Son to the King, whose Spirit
appears; it was necessary, I say, upon these Accounts, that this Incident should be treated
in a sublimer Manner than the Former. Accordingly we may take Notice, that Hamlet's Speech
to his Father's Shade is as much superior to that of Horatio upon the same Occasion, as his
is to any Thing of that kind that I have ever met with in any other Dramatick Poet.

Hamlet's Invocation of the heavenly Ministers, is extremely fine; and the begging their Protection
upon the Appearance of a Sight so shocking to human Nature, is entirely conformable to the
virtuous Character of this Prince, and gives an Air of Probability to the whole Scene. He accosts
the Ghost with great Intrepidity; and his whole Speech is so full of the Marks of his Filial
Piety, that we may easily observe, that his Tenderness for his Father gets the better of all
Sentiments of Terror which we could suppose to arise, even in the Breast of the most undaunted
Person, upon the seeing and conversing with so strange an Apparition.

His breaking from his Friends with that Vehemency of Passion in an Eagerness of Desire to hear
what his Father could say to him, is another Proof of his Filial Tenderness.

The Reader of himself must easily see why the Spectre would not speak to the Prince, but a-part
from those who were with him: For it was not a Secret of a Nature fit to be divulg'd. Their
earnest Intreaties, and almost Force which they use to keep him from going, are much in Nature;
the Reasons they give him, and the Reflections they make after he is gone, are poetically express'd,
and very natural.

The Ghost's Account of the base Murther committed on him, is express'd in the strongest and
most nervous Diction that Poetry can make use of; and he speaks with such Gravity and Weight
of Language as well suits his Condition. The Ideas he raises in the Audience by his short Hint
concerning the Secrets of his Prison-House, are such as must cause that Terror which is the
natural Effect of such Appearances, and must occasion such Images as should always accompany
such Incidents in Tragedy.

The Ghost's bringing out the Account of his Murder by Degrees, and the Prince's Exclamations
as he becomes farther acquainted with the Affair, are great Beauties in this Scene, because
it is all entirely conformable to Nature; that is, to those Ideas by which we naturally conceive,
how a Thing of this sort would be managed and treated, were it really to happen.

We are to observe further, that the King spurs on his Son to revenge his foul and unnatural
Murder from these two Considerations chiefly, that he was sent into the other World without
having had Time to repent of his Sins, and without the necessary Sacraments, (according to
the Church of Rome,) as Mr. Theobalds, (See his Note, p. 253.) has well explained it, and that
consequently his Soul was to suffer, if not eternal Damnation, at least a long Course of Penance
in Purgatory; which aggravates the Circumstances of his Brother's Barbarity. And, Secondly,
That Denmark might not be the Scene of Usurpation and Incest, and the Throne thus polluted
and profaned. For these Reasons he prompts the young Prince to Revenge; else it would have
been more becoming the Character of such a Prince as Hamlet's Father is represented to have
been, and more suitable to his present Condition, to have left his Brother to the Divine Punishment,
and to a Possibility of Repentance for his base Crime, which by cutting him off, he must be
deprived of.

His Caution to his Son concerning his Mother, is very fine, and shews great Delicacy in our
Author; as has been observ'd by a great Writer of our Nation. The Ghost's Interrupting himself
(but soft, methinks, I scent the Morning Air, &c.) has much Beauty in it, particularly, as
it complys with the received Notions, that Spirits shun the Light, and continues the Attention
of the Audience by so particular a Circumstance.

The Sequel of this Scene by no Means answers the Dignity of what we have hitherto been treating
of. Hamlet's Soliloquy, after the Ghost has disappeared, is such as it should be. The Impatience
of Horatio, &c. to know the Result of his Conference with the Phantom, and his putting them
off from knowing it, with his Caution concerning his future Conduct, and his intreating them
to be silent in Relation to this whole Affair; all this, I say, is natural and right; but his
light and even ludicrous Expressions to them; his making them swear by his Sword, and shift
their Ground, with the Ghost's Crying under the Stage, and Hamlet's Reflection thereupon, are
all Circumstances certainly inferiour to the preceeding Part. I must confess, I have turn'd
this Matter on every Side, and all that can be said for it (as far as I am able to penetrate),
is that he makes the Prince put on this Levity of Behaviour, that the Gentlemen who were with
him, might not imagine that the Ghost had reveal'd some Matter of great Consequence to him,
and that he might not therefore be suspected of any deep Designs. This appears plausible enough;
but let it be as it will, the whole, I think, is too lightly managed, and such a Design as
I have mention'd might, in my Opinion, have been answered by some other Method more correspondent
to the Dignity and Majesty of the preceeding Part of the Scene. I must observe once more, that
the Prince's Soliloquy is exquisitely beautiful.

I shall conclude what I have to say on this Scene, with observing, that I do not know any Tragedy,
ancient or modern, in any Nation, where the Whole is made to turn so naturally and so justly
upon such a supernatural Appearance as this is; nor do I know of any Piece whatever, where
a Spectre introduced with so much Majesty, such an Air of Probability, and where such an Apparition
is manag'd with so much Dignity and Art; in short, which so little revolts the Judgment and
Belief of the Spectators. Nor have I ever met in all my Reading, with a Scene in any Tragedy,
which creates so much Awe, and serious Attention as this does, and which raises such a Multiplicity
of the most exalted Sentiments. It is certain, our Author excell'd in this kind of Writing,
as has been more than once observed by several Writers, and none ever before or since his Time,
could ever bring Inhabitants of another World upon the Stage, without making them ridiculous
or too horrible, and the Whole too improbable and too shocking to Men's Understandings.

ACT II.

Polonius and Reynoldo, and afterwards Ophelia.

Polonius's Discourse to Reynoldo is of a good moral Tenour, and thus far it is useful to the
Audience. His forgetting what he was saying, (p. 260) as is usual with old Men, is extremely
natural, and much in Character for him.

Ophelia's Description of Hamlet's Madness, does as much Honour to our Poet as any Passage in
the whole Play, (p. 261, and 262.) It is excellently good in the Pictoresque Part of Poetry,
and renders the Thing almost present to us.

Now I am come to mention Hamlet's Madness, I must speak my Opinion of our Poet's Conduct in
this Particular. To conform to the Ground-work of his Plot, Shakespeare makes the young Prince
feign himself mad. I cannot but think this to be injudicious; for so far from Securing himself
from any Violence which fear'd from the Usurper, which was his Design in so doing, it seems
to have been the most likely Way of getting himself confin'd, and consequently, debarr'd from
an Opportunity of Revenging his Father's Death, which now seem'd to be his only Aim; and accordingly
it was the Occasion of his being sent away to England. Which Design, had it taken effect upon
his Life, he never could have revenged his Father's Murder.

The Case indeed is this: Had Hamlet gone naturally to work, as we could suppose such a Prince
to do in parallel Circumstances, there would have been an End of our Play. The Poet therefore
was obliged to delay his Hero's Revenge; but then he should have contrived some good Reason for it.

His Beginning his Scenes of Madness by his Behaviour to Ophelia was judicious, because by this
Means he might be thought to be mad for her, and not that his Brain was disturb'd about State
Affairs, which would have been dangerous.

Page 263.

Enter King, Queen, Rosincrantz, Guildenstern, &c.

The King in this Scene, seems to be but half perswaded that Hamlet is really mad; had he thoroughly
believed it, it was to no Purpose to endeavour to sound his Mind; and the shortest and best
Way, and what, methinks, the King ought most to have wished for, was to have had him confin'd;
and this was an excellent Reason to give the People for so doing.

The Queen seems to have no Design or Artifice in relation to her Son, but mere Affection; which,
considering all Things, one would little expect from her.

The Account of the Embassy to Norway, was necessary towards the Introduction of Fortinbrass,
in the Sequel, whose coming in at the Close of the Play winds up all very naturally.

Polonius's Character, (p. 267, 268.) is admirably well kept up in that Scene, where he pretends
to have discovered the Cause of the Prince's Madness, and would much deserve Applause, were
such a Character allowable in such a Piece as this.

Hamlet's Letter to Ophelia, which Polonius reads, is none of the best Parts of this play, and
is, I think, too Comick for this Piece. The whole Conduct of Hamlet's Madness is, in my Opinion,
too ludicrous for his Character, and for the situation his Mind was then really in. I must
confess, nothing is more difficult than to draw a real Madness well, much more a feign'd one;
for here the Poet in Hamlet's Case, was to paint such a Species of Madness as should not give
cause of Suspicion of the real Grief which had taken Possession of the Prince's Mind. His Behaviour
to those two Courtiers, whom the Usurper had sent to dive into his Secret, is very natural
and just, because his chief Business was to baffle their Enquiries, as he does also in another
Scene, (p. 304.) where his falling into a sort of a Pun upon bringing in the Pipe, is a great
Fault, for it is too low and mean for Tragedy. But our Author in this (as in all his Pieces)
is glad of any Opportunity of falling in with the prevailing Humour of the Times, which ran
into false Wit, and a constant endeavour to produce affected Moral Sentences.

He was very capable of drawing Hamlet in Madness with much more Dignity, and without any Thing
of the Comick; although it is difficult, as I said, to describe a feign'd Madness in a Tragedy,
which is not to touch on the real Cause of Grief.

Page 277.

The Scene of the Players is conducive to the whole Scheme of this Tragedy, and is managed with
great Beauty. We are to observe, that the Speeches spoken by the Prince, and one of the Players,
are dismal Bombast, and intended, no doubt, to ridicule some Tragedy of those Days.

The Poet's stepping out of his Subject to lash the Custom of Plays being acted by the Children
of the Chapel, is not allowable in Tragedy, which is never to be a Satire upon any modern particular
Foible or Vice that prevails, but is to be severe upon Crimes and Immoralities of all Ages,
and of all Countries.

Hamlet's Speech, (p. 281.) after his Conversation with the Players, is good; and by it we see
that the Poet himself seems sensible of the Fault in his Plot. But that avails not, unless
he had found Means to help it, which certainly might have been.

The Prince's Design of confirming by the Play, the Truth of what the Ghost told him, is certainly
well imagin'd; but as the coming of these Players is supposed to be accidental, it could not
be a Reason for his Delay.

ACT III.

Page 284.

How smart a Lash, that Speech doth give my Conscience, &c.

The Poet here is greatly to be commended for his Conduct. As consummate a Villain as this King
of Denmark is represented to be, yet we find him stung with the deepest Remorse, upon the least
Sentence that can any ways be supposed to relate to his Crime. How Instructive this is to the
Audience, how much it answers the End of all publick Representations by inculcating a good
Moral, I leave to the Consideration of every Reader.

Hamlet's Conversation with Ophelia, we may observe, is in the Style of Madness; and it was
proper that the Prince should conceal his Design from every one, which had he conversed with
his Mistress in his natural Style could not have been.

I am perswaded, that our Author was pleas'd to have an Opportunity of raising a Laugh now and
then, which he does in several Passages of Hamlet's satirical Reflections on Women; but I have
the same Objections to this Part of the Prince's Madness, that I have before mentioned, viz.
that it wants Dignity. Ophelia's melancholy Reflections upon Hamlet's having lost his Sovereignty
of Reason, is natural and very beautiful. As to the King's sending him to England, See Mr.
Theobald's Note. I purposely omit taking Notice of the famous Speech, To be, or not to be,
&c. every English Reader knows its Beauties.

The Prince's Directions to the Players are exceeding good, and are evidently brought in as
Lessons for the Players, who were Shakespeare's Companions, and he thought this a very proper
Occasion to animadvert upon those Faults which were disagreeable to him. Whoever reads these
Observations of his, if one may prove a Thing by a negative Argument, must believe Shakespeare
to have been an excellent Actor himself; for we can hardly imagine him to have been guilty
of the Mistakes he is pointing out to his Brethren.

Notwithstanding all this, and that the Opportunity seems natural enough to introduce these
Remarks, yet I cannot think them agreeable in such a Piece as this; they are not suitable to
the Dignity of the Whole, and would be better plac'd in a Comedy.

Page 292, Act 3d.

Hamlet's Expression of his Friendship for Horatio, has great Beauties; it is with Simplicity
and Strength, and the Diction has all the Graces of Poetry. It was well imagin'd, that he should
let his Friend know the Secret of his Father's Murder, because, thus his Request to him, to
observe the King's Behaviour at the Play, is very naturally introduc'd as a prudent Desire
of the Prince's. The Friendship of Eneas for Achates in the Eneid, is found Fault with much
for the same Reasons that some Criticks might carp at this of Hamlet's for Horatio, viz. that
neither of them are found to perform any great Acts of Friendship to their respective Friends.
But, I think, that the Friendship of Hamlet and Horatio is far superior to that of Eneas and
Achates, as appears in the last Scene, where Horatio's Behaviour is exceeding Tender, and his
Affection for the Prince likely to prove very useful to his Memory.

Hamlet's whole Conduct, during the Play which is acted before the King, has, in my Opinion,
too much Levity in it. His Madness is of too light a Kind, although I know he says, he must
be idle; but among other Things, his Pun to Polonius is not tolerable. I might also justly
find Fault with the want of Decency in his Discourses to Ophelia, without being thought too
severe. The Scene represented by the Players is in wretched Verse. This we may, without incurring
the Denomination of an ill-natur'd Critick, venture to pronounce, that in almost every Place
where Shakespeare has attempted Rhime, either in the Body of his Plays, or at the Ends of Acts
or Scenes, he falls far short of the Beauty and Force of his Blank Verse: One would think they
were written by two different Persons. I believe we may justly take Notice, that Rhime never
arrived at its true Beauty, never came to its Perfection in England, until long since Shakespeare's
Time.

The King's rising with such Precipitation, and quitting the Play upon seeing the Resemblance
of his own foul Crime, is very much in Nature, and confirms the Penetration of our Author's Hero.

Page 302.

Hamlet's Pleasantry upon his being certified that his Uncle is Guilty, is not a-propos in my
Opinion. We are to take Notice that the Poet has mix'd a Vein of Humour in the Prince's Character,
which is to be seen in many Places of this Play. What was his Reason for so doing, I cannot
say, unless it was to follow his Favourite Foible, viz. that of raising a Laugh.

Page 306.

The Prince's Resolution upon his going to his Mother, is beautifully express'd, and suitable
to his Character.

Page 306, 307.

What Rosincrantz says of the Importance of the King's Life, is express'd by a very just Image.

Page 307.

The King's seeming so very much touch'd with a Sense of his Crime, is supposed to be owing
to the Representation he had been present at; but I do not well see how Hamlet is introduced
so as to find him at Prayers. It is not natural, that a King's Privacy should be so intruded
on, not even by any of his Family, especially, that it should be done without his perceiving it.

Page 309.

Hamlet's Speech upon seeing the King at Prayers, has always given me great Offence. There is
something so very Bloody in it, so inhuman, so unworthy of a Hero, that I wish our Poet had
omitted it. To desire to destroy a Man's Soul, to make him eternally miserable, by cutting
him off from all hopes of Repentance; this surely, in a Christian Prince, is such a Piece of
Revenge, as no Tenderness for any Parent can justify. To put the Usurper to Death, to deprive
him of the Fruits of his vile Crime, and to rescue the Throne of Denmark from Pollution, was
highly requisite: But there our young Prince's Desires should have stop'd, nor should he have
wished to pursue the Criminal in the other World, but rather have hoped for his Conversion,
before his putting him to Death; for even with his Repentance, there was at least Purgatory
for him to pass through, as we find even in a virtuous Prince, the Father of Hamlet.

Page 310.

Enter the Queen and Polonius, and afterwards Hamlet.

We are now come to a Scene, which I have always much admired. I cannot think it possible, that
such an Incident could have been managed better, nor more conformably to Reason and Nature.
The Prince, conscious of his own good Intentions, and the Justness of the Cause he undertakes
to plead, speaks with that Force and Assurance which Virtue always gives; and yet manages his
Expressions so as not to treat his Mother in a disrespectful Manner. What can be expressed
with more Beauty and more Dignity, than the Difference between his Uncle and Father! The Contrast
in the Description of them both, is exquisitely fine: And his inforcing the Heinousness of
his Mother's Crime with so much Vehemence, and her guilty half Confessions of her Wickedness,
and at last her thorough Remorse, are all Strokes from the Hand of a great Master in the Imitation
of Nature.

His being obliged to break off his Discourse by the coming in of his Father's Ghost once more,
adds a certain Weight and Gravity to this Scene, which works up in the Minds of the Audience
all the Passions which do the greatest Honour to human Nature. Add to this, the august and
solemn Manner with which the Prince addresses the Spectre after his Invocation of the Celestial
Ministers.

The Ghost's not being seen by the Queen, was very proper; for we could hardly suppose, that
a Woman, and a guilty one especially, could be able to bear so terrible a Sight without the
Loss of her Reason. Besides that, I believe, the Poet had also some Eye to a vulgar Notion,
that Spirits are only seen by those with whom their Business is, let there be never so many
Persons in Company. This Compliance with these popular Fancies, still gives an Air of Probability
to the Whole. The Prince shews an extreme Tenderness for his Father in these Lines,

   On Him! on Him! &c.
   His Form and Cause conjoin'd, &c.

and really performs all the strictest Rules of Filial Piety thro' out the whole Play, both
to Father and Mother; and particularly, to the Latter in this Scene, whilst he endeavours to
bring her to Repentance. In a Word, We have in this important Scene, our Indignation raised
against a vile Murderer, our Compassion caus'd for the inhuman Death of a virtuous Prince;
our Affection is heighten'd for the Hero of the Play; and, not to enter into more Particulars,
we are moved in the strongest Manner, by every Thing that can gain Access to our Hearts.

Hamlet's killing Polonius, was in Conformity to the Plan Shakespeare built his Play upon; and
the Prince behaves himself on that Occasion, as one who seems to have his Thoughts bent on
Things of more Importance. I wish the Poet had omitted Hamlet's last Reflection on the Occasion,
viz. This Counsellor, &c. It has too much Levity in it; and his tugging him away into another
Room, is unbecoming the Gravity of the rest of the Scene, and is a Circumstance too much calculated
to raise a Laugh, which it always does. We must observe, that Polonius is far from a good Character,
and that his Death is absolutely necessary towards the Denoüement of the whole Piece. And our
Hero had not put him to Death, had not he thought it to have been the Usurper hid behind the
Arras; so that upon the Whole, this is no Blemish to his Character.

Hamlet's Behaviour to the King, &c. (Act fourth, p 320 and Sequel,) concerning Polonius's Body,
is too jocose and trivial.

Page 326. Enter Fortinbrass with an Army.

This is a Conduct in most of our Author's Tragedies, and in many other of our Tragedy Writers,
that is quite unnatural and absurd; I mean, introducing an Army on the Stage. Although our
Imagination will bear a great Degree of Illusion, yet we can never so far impose on our Knowledge,
and our Senses, as to imagine the Stage to contain an Army: Therefore in such a Case, the Recital
of it, or seeing the Commander, and an Officer or Two of it, is the best Method of conducting
such a Circumstance. Fortinbrass's Troops are here brought in, I believe, to give Occasion
for his appearing in the last Scene, and also to give Rise to Hamlet's reflections thereon,
(p. 327.) which tend to give some Reasons for his deferring the Punishment of the Usurper.

Laertes's Character is a very odd one; it is not easy to say, whether it is good or bad; but
his consenting to the villainous Contrivance of the Usurper's to murder Hamlet, (p. 342.) makes
him much more a bad Man than a good one. For surely Revenge for such an accidental Murder as
was that of his Father's (which from the Queen, it is to be supposed he was acquainted with
all the Circumstances of) could never justify him in any treacherous Practices. It is a very
nice Conduct in the Poet to make the Usurper build his Scheme upon the generous unsuspicious
Temper of the Person he intends to murder, and thus to raise the Prince's Character by the
Confession of his Enemy, to make the Villain ten Times more odious from his own Mouth. The
Contrivance of the Foil unbated (i.e. without a Button) is methinks too gross a Deceit to go
down even with a Man of the most unsuspicious Nature.

The Scenes of Ophelia's Madness are to me very shocking, in so noble a Piece as this. I am
not against her having been represented mad; but surely, it might have been done with less
Levity and more Decency. Mistakes are less tolerable from such a Genius as Shakespeare's and
especially in the very Pieces which give us such strong Proofs of his exalted Capacity. Mr.
Warburton's Note (in Mr. Theobalds) on Laertes's Rebellion, is very judicious, (as indeed are
all those of that Gentleman) only I cannot think Laertes (for the Reasons I have given) a good
Character.

ACT V.

The Scene of the Grave-Diggers. (p. 344.) I know is much applauded, but in my humble Opinion,
is very unbecoming such a Piece as this, and is only pardonable as it gives Rise to Hamlet's
fine moral Reflections upon the Infirmity of human Nature.

Page 354.

Hamlet's Return to Denmark is not ill contriv'd; but I cannot think that his Stratagem is natural
or easy, by which he brings that Destruction upon the Heads of his Enemies, which was to have
fallen upon himself. It was possible, but not very probable; because methinks, their Commission
was kept in a very negligent Manner, to be thus got from them without their knowing it. Their
Punishment was just, because they had devoted themselves to the Service of the Usurper in whatever
he should command, as appears in several Passages.

It does not appear whether Ophelia's Madness was chiefly for her Father's Death, or for the
Loss of Hamlet. It is not often that young Women run mad for the Loss of their Fathers. It
is more natural to suppose, that like Chimene in the Cid, her great Sorrow proceeded from her
Father's being kill'd by the Man she lov'd, and thereby making it indecent for her ever to
marry him.

Page 351.

