They spent the following days in wandering about Paris, looking for a fiat: they were worn
out with going up stairs, and disheartened by the sight of the great barracks crammed full
of people, and the dirty stairs, and the dark rooms, that seemed so depressing to them after
their own big house in the country. They grew more and more depressed. And they were always
shy and timid in the streets, and shops, and restaurants, so that they were cheated at every
turn. Everything they asked for cost an exorbitant sum: it was as though they had the faculty
of turning everything they touched into gold: only, it was they who had to pay out the gold.
They were incredibly simple and absolutely incapable of looking after themselves.

Though there was little left to hope for from Madame Jeannin's sister, the poor lady wove illusions
about the dinner to which they were invited. They dressed for it with fluttering hearts. They
were received as guests, and not as relations--though nothing more was expended on the dinner
than the ceremonious manner. The children met their cousins, who were almost the same age as
themselves, but they were not much more cordial than their father and mother. The girl was
very smart and coquettish, and spoke to them with a lisp and a politely superior air, with
affectedly honeyed manners which disconcerted them. The boy was bored by this duty-dinner with
their poor relations: and he was as surly as could be. Madame Poyet-Delorme sat up stiffly
in her chair, and, even when she handed her a dish, seemed to be reading her sister a lesson.
Madame Poyet-Delorme talked trivialities to keep the conversation from becoming serious. They
never got beyond talking of what they were eating for fear of touching upon any intimate and
dangerous topic. Madame Jeannin made an effort to bring them round to the subject next her
heart: Madame Poyet-Delorme cut her short with some pointless remark, and she had not the courage
to try again.

After dinner she made her daughter play the piano by way of showing off her talents. The poor
girl was embarrassed and unhappy and played execrably. The Poyets were bored and anxious for
her to finish. Madame Poyet exchanged glances with her daughter, with an ironic curl of her
lips: and as the music went on too long she began to talk to Madame Jeannin about nothing in
particular. At last Antoinette, who had quite lost her place, and saw to her horror that, instead
of going on, she had begun again at the beginning, and that there was no reason why she should
ever stop, broke off suddenly, and ended with two inaccurate chords and a third which was absolutely
dissonant. Monsieur Poyet said:

"Bravo!"

And he asked for coffee.

Madame Poyet said that her daughter was taking lessons with Pugno: and the young lady "who
was taking lessons with Pugno" said:

"Charming, my dear...."

And asked where Antoinette had studied.

The conversation dropped. They had exhausted the knick-knacks in the drawing-room and the dresses
of Madame and Mademoiselle Poyet. Madame Jeannin said to herself:

"I must speak now. I must...."

And she fidgeted. Just as she had pulled herself together to begin, Madame Poyet mentioned
casually, without any attempt at an apology, that they were very sorry but they had to go out
at half-past nine: they had an invitation which they had been unable to decline. The Jeannins
were at a loss, and got up at once to go. The Poyets made some show of detaining them. But
a quarter of an hour later there was a ring at the door: the footman announced some friends
of the Poyets, neighbors of theirs, who lived in the flat below. Poyet and his wife exchanged
glances, and there were hurried whisperings with the servants. Poyet stammered some excuse,
and hurried the Jeannins into the next room. (He was trying to hide from his friends the existence,
and the presence in his house, of the compromising family.) The Jeannins were left alone in
a room without a fire. The children were furious at the affront. Antoinette had tears in her
eyes and insisted on their going. Her mother resisted for a little: but then, after they had
waited for some time, she agreed. They went out. In the hall they were caught by Poyet, who
had been told by a servant, and he muttered excuses: he pretended that he wanted them to stay:
but it was obvious that he was only eager for them to go. He helped them on with their cloaks,
and hurried them to the door with smiles and handshakes and whispered pleasantries, and closed
the door on them. When they reached their hotel the children burst into angry tears. Antoinette
stamped her foot, and swore that she would never enter their house again.

Madame Jeannin took a flat on the fourth floor near the Jardin des Plantes. The bedrooms looked
on to the filthy walls of a gloomy courtyard: the dining-room and the drawing-room--(for Madame
Jeannin insisted on having a drawing-room)--on to a busy street. All day long steam-trams went
by and hearses crawling along to the Ivry Cemetery. Filthy Italians, with a horde of children,
loafed about on the seats, or spent their time in shrill argument. The noise made it impossible
to have the windows open: and in the evening, on their way home, they had to force their way
through crowds of bustling, evil-smelling people, cross the thronged and muddy streets, pass
a horrible pothouse, that was on the ground floor of the next house, in the door of which there
were always fat, frowsy women with yellow hair and painted faces, eying the passers-by.

Their small supply of money soon gave out. Every evening with sinking hearts they took stock
of the widening hole in their purse. They tried to stint themselves: but they did not know
how to set about it: that is a science which can only be learned by years of experimenting,
unless it has been practised from childhood. Those who are not naturally economical merely
waste their time in trying to be so: as soon as a fresh opportunity of spending money crops
up, they succumb to the temptation: they are always going to economize next time: and when
they do happen to make a little money, or to think they have made it, they rush out and spend
ten times the amount on the strength of it.

At the end of a few weeks the Jeannins' resources were exhausted. Madame Jeannin had to gulp
down what was left of her pride, and, unknown to her children, she went and asked Poyet for
money. She contrived to see him alone at his office, and begged him to advance her a small
sum until they had found work to keep them alive. Poyet, who was weak and human enough, tried
at first to postpone the matter, but finally acceded to her request. He gave her two hundred
francs in a moment of emotion, which mastered him, and he repented of it immediately afterwards,--when
he had to make his peace with Madame Poyet, who was furious with her husband's weakness, and
her sister's slyness.

       *       *       *       *       *

All day and every day the Jeannins were out and about in Paris, looking for work. Madame Jeannin,
true to the prejudices of her class, would not hear of their engaging in any other profession
than those which are called "liberal"--no doubt because they leave their devotees free to starve.
She would even have gone so far as to forbid her daughter to take a post as a family governess.
Only the official professions, in the service of the State, were not degrading in her eyes.
They had to discover a means of letting Olivier finish his education so that he might become
a teacher. As for Antoinette, Madame Jeannin's idea was that she should go to a school to teach,
or to the Conservatoire to win the prize for piano playing. But the schools at which she applied
already had teachers enough, who were much better qualified than her daughter with her poor
little elementary certificate: and, as for music, she had to recognize that Antoinette's talent
was quite ordinary compared with that of so many others who did not get on at all. They came
face to face with the terrible struggle for life, and the blind waste of talent, great and
small, for which Paris can find no use.

The two children lost heart and exaggerated their uselessness: they believed that they were
mediocre, and did their best to convince themselves and their mother that it was so. Olivier,
who had had no difficulty in shining at his provincial school, was crushed by his various rebuffs:
he seemed to have lost possession of all his gifts. At the school for which he won a scholarship,
the results of his first examinations were so disastrous that his scholarship was taken away
from him. He thought himself utterly stupid. At the same time he had a horror of Paris, and
its swarming inhabitants, and the disgusting immorality of his schoolfellows, and their shameful
conversation, and the bestiality of a few of them who did not spare him from their abominable
proposals. He was not even strong enough to show his contempt for them. He felt degraded by
the mere thought of their degradation. With his mother and sister, he took refuge in the heartfelt
prayers which they used to say every evening after the day of deceptions and private humiliations,
which to their innocence seemed to be a taint, of which they dared not tell each other. But,
in contact with the latent spirit of atheism which is in the air of Paris, Olivier's faith
was beginning to crumble away, without his knowledge, like whitewash trickling down a wall
under the beating of the rain. He went on believing: but all about him God was dying.

His mother and sister pursued their futile quest. Madame Jeannin turned once more to the Poyets,
who were anxious to be quit of them, and offered them work. Madame Jeannin was to go as reader
to an old lady who was spending the winter in the South of France. A post was found for Antoinette
as governess in a family in the West, who lived all the year round in the country. The terms
were not bad, but Madame Jeannin refused. It was not so much for herself that she objected
to a menial position, but she was determined that Antoinette should not be reduced to it, and
unwilling to part with her. However unhappy they might be, just because they were unhappy,
they wished to be together.--Madame Poyet took it very badly. She said that people who had
no means of living had no business to be proud. Madame Jeannin could not refrain from crying
out upon her heartlessness. Madame Poyet spoke bitterly of the bankruptcy and of the money
that Madame Jeannin owed her. They parted, and the breach between them was final. All relationship
between them was broken off. Madame Jeannin had only one desire left: to pay back the money
she had borrowed. But she was unable to do that.

They resumed their vain search for work. Madame Jeannin went to see the deputy and the senator
of her department, men whom Monsieur Jeannin had often helped. Everywhere she was brought face
to face with ingratitude and selfishness. The deputy did not even answer her letters, and when
she called on him he sent down word that he was out. The senator commiserated her ponderously
on her unhappy position, which he attributed to "the wretched Jeannin," whose suicide he stigmatized
harshly. Madame Jeannin defended her husband. The senator said that of course he knew that
the banker had acted, not from dishonesty, but from stupidity, and that he was a fool, a poor
gull, who knew nothing, and would go his own way without asking anybody's advice or taking
a warning from any one. If he had only ruined himself, there would have been nothing to say:
that would have been his own affair. But--not to mention the ruin that he had brought on others,--that
he should have reduced his wife and children to poverty and deserted them and left them to
get out of it as best they could ... it was Madame Jeannin's own business if she chose to forgive
him, if she were a saint, but for his part, he, the senator, not being a saint--(s, a, i, n,
t),--but, he flattered himself, just a plain man--(s, a, i, n),--a plain, sensible, reasonable
human being,--he could find no reason for forgiveness: a man who, in such circumstances, could
kill himself, was a wretch. The only extenuating circumstance he could find in Jeannin's case
was that he was not responsible for his actions. With that he begged Madame Jeannin's pardon
for having expressed himself a little emphatically about her husband: he pleaded the sympathy
that he felt for her: and he opened his drawer and offered her a fifty-franc note,--charity--which
she refused.

She applied for a post in the offices of a great Government department. She set about it clumsily
and inconsequently, and all her courage oozed out at the first attempt. She returned home so
demoralized that for several days she could not stir. And, when she resumed her efforts, it
was too late. She did not find help either with the church-people, either because they saw
there was nothing to gain by it, or because they took no interest in a ruined family, the head
of which had been notoriously anti-clerical. After days and days of hunting for work Madame
Jeannin could find nothing better than a post as music-teacher in a convent--an ungrateful
task, ridiculously ill-paid. To eke out her earnings she copied music in the evenings for an
agency. They were very hard on her. She was severely called to task for omitting words and
whole lines, as she did in spite of her application, for she was always thinking of so many
other things and her wits were wool-gathering. And so, after she had stayed up through the
night till her eyes and her back ached, her copy was rejected. She would return home utterly
downcast. She would spend days together moaning, unable to stir a finger. For a long time she
had been suffering from heart trouble, which had been aggravated by her hard struggles, and
filled her with dark forebodings. Sometimes she would have pains, and difficulty in breathing
as though she were on the point of death. She never went out without her name and address written
on a piece of paper in her pocket in case she should collapse in the street. What would happen
if she were to disappear? Antoinette comforted her as best she could by affecting a confidence
which she did not possess: she begged her to be careful and to let her go and work in her stead.
But the little that was left of Madame Jeannin's pride stirred in her, and she vowed that at
least her daughter should not know the humiliation she had to undergo.

In vain did she wear herself out and cut down their expenses: what she earned was not enough
to keep them alive. They had to sell the few jewels which they had kept. And the worst blow
of all came when the money, of which they were in such sore need, was stolen from Madame Jeannin
the very day it came into her hands. The poor flustered creature took it into her head while
she was out to go into the Bon Marche, which was on her way: it was Antoinette's birthday next
day, and she wanted to give her a little present. She was carrying her purse in her hand so
as not to lose it. She put it down mechanically on the counter for a moment while she looked
at something. When she put out her hand for it the purse was gone. It was the last blow for her.

A few days later, on a stifling evening at the end of August,--a hot steaming mist hung over
the town,--Madame Jeannin came in from her copying agency, whither she had been to deliver
a piece of work that was wanted in a hurry. She was late for dinner, and had saved her three
sous' bus fare by hurrying home on foot to prevent her children being anxious. When she reached
the fourth floor she could neither speak nor breathe. It was not the first time she had returned
home in that condition: the children took no notice of it. She forced herself to sit down at
table with them. They were both suffering from the heat and did not eat anything: they had
to make an effort to gulp down a few morsels of food, and a sip or two of stale water. To give
their mother time to recover they did not talk--(they had no desire to talk)--and looked out
of the window.

Suddenly Madame Jeannin waved her hands in the air, clutched at the table, looked at her children,
moaned, and collapsed. Antoinette and Olivier sprang to their feet just in time to catch her
in their arms. They were beside themselves, and screamed and cried to her:

"Mother! Mother! Dear, dear mother!"

But she made no sound. They were at their wit's end. Antoinette clung wildly to her mother's
body, kissed her, called to her. Olivier ran to the door of the flat and yelled:

"Help! Help!"

The housekeeper came running upstairs, and when she saw what had happened she ran for a doctor.
But when the doctor arrived, he could only say that the end had come. Death had been instantaneous--happily
for Madame Jeannin--although it was impossible to know what thoughts might have been hers during
the last moments when she knew that she was dying and leaving her children alone in such misery.

They were alone to bear the horror of the catastrophe, alone to weep, alone to perform the
dreadful duties that follow upon death. The porter's wife, a kindly soul, helped them a little:
and people came from the convent where Madame Jeannin had taught: but they were given no real
sympathy.

The first moments brought inexpressible despair. The only thing that saved them was the very
excess of that despair, which made Olivier really ill. Antoinette's thoughts were distracted
from her own suffering, and her one idea was to save her brother: and her great, deep love
filled Olivier and plucked him back from the violent torment of his grief. Locked in her arms,
near the bed where their mother was lying in the glimmer of a candle, Olivier said over and
over again that they must die, that they must both die, at once: and he pointed to the window.
In Antoinette, too, there was the dark desire: but she fought it down: she wished to live....

"Why? Why?"

"For her sake," said Antoinette--(she pointed to her mother).--"She is still with us. Think
... after all that she has suffered for our sake, we must spare her the crowning sorrow, that
of seeing us die in misery.... Ah!" (she went on emphatically).... "And then, we must not give
way. I will not! I refuse to give in. You must, you shall be happy, some day!"

"Never!"

"Yes. You shall be happy. We have had too much unhappiness. A change will come: it must. You
shall live your life. You shall have children, you shall be happy, you shall, you shall!"

"How are we to live? We cannot do it...."

"We can. What is it, after all? We have to live somehow until you can earn your living. I will
see to that. You will see: I'll do it. Ah! If only mother had let me do it, as I could have
done...."

"What will you do? I will not have you degrading yourself. You could not do it."

"I can.... And there is nothing humiliating in working for one's living--provided it be honest
work. Don't you worry about it, please. You will see, everything will come right. You shall
be happy, we shall be happy: dear Olivier, she will be happy through us...."

The two children were the only mourners at their mother's grave. By common consent they agreed
not to tell the Poyets: the Poyets had ceased to exist for them: they had been too cruel to
their mother: they had helped her to her death. And, when the housekeeper asked them if they
had no other relations, they replied:

"No. Nobody."

By the bare grave they prayed hand in hand. They set their teeth in desperate resolve and pride
and preferred their solitude to the presence of their callous and hypocritical relations.--They
returned on foot through the throng of people who were strangers to their grief, strangers
to their thoughts, strangers to their lives, and shared nothing with them but their common
language. Antoinette had to support Olivier.

They took a tiny flat in the same house on the top floor--two little attics, a narrow hall,
which had to serve as a dining-room, and a kitchen that was more like a cupboard. They could
have found better rooms in another neighborhood: but it seemed to them that they were still
with their mother in that house. The housekeeper took an interest in them for a time: but she
was soon absorbed in her own affairs and nobody bothered about them. They did not know a single
one of the other tenants: and they did not even know who lived next door.

Antoinette obtained her mother's post as music-teacher at the convent. She procured other pupils.
She had only one idea: to educate her brother until he was ready for the Ecole Normale. It
was her own idea, and she had decided upon it after mature reflection: she had studied the
syllabus and asked about it, and had also tried to find out what Olivier thought:--but he had
no ideas, and she chose for him. Once at the Ecole Normale he would be sure of a living for
the rest of his life, and his future would be assured. He must get in, somehow; whatever it
cost, they would have to keep alive till then. It meant five or six terrible years: they would
win through. The idea possessed Antoinette, absorbed her whole life. The poor solitary existence
which she must lead, which she saw clearly mapped out in front of her, was only made bearable
through the passionate exaltation which filled her, her determination, by all means in her
power, to save her brother and make him happy. The light-hearted, gentle girl of seventeen
or eighteen was transfigured by her heroic resolution: there was in her an ardent quality of
devotion, a pride of battle, which no one had suspected, herself least of all. In that critical
period of a woman's life, during the first fevered days of spring, when love fills all her
being, and like a hidden stream murmuring beneath the earth, laves her soul, envelops it, floods
it with tenderness, and fills it with sweet obsessions, love appears in divers shapes: demanding
that she should give herself, and yield herself up to be its prey: for love the least excuse
is enough, and for its profound yet innocent sensuality any sacrifice is easy. Love made Antoinette
the prey of sisterly devotion.

Her brother was less passionate and had no such stay. Besides, the sacrifice was made for him,
it was not he who was sacrificed--which is so much easier and sweeter when one loves. He was
weighed down with remorse at seeing his sister wearing herself out for him. He would tell her
so, and she would reply:

"Ah! My dear!... But don't you see that that is what keeps me going? Without you to trouble
me, what should I have to live for?"

He understood. He, too, in Antoinette's position, would have been jealous of the trouble he
caused her: but to be the cause of it!... That hurt his pride and his affection. And what a
burden it was for so weak a creature to bear such a responsibility, to be bound to succeed,
since on his success his sister had staked her whole life! The thought of it was intolerable
to him, and, instead of spurring him on, there were times when it robbed him of all energy.
And yet she forced him to struggle on, to work, to live, as he never would have done without
her aid and insistence. He had a natural predisposition towards depression,--perhaps even towards
suicide:--perhaps he would have succumbed to it had not his sister wished him to be ambitious
and happy. He suffered from the contradiction of his nature: and yet it worked his salvation.
He, too, was passing through a critical age, that fearful period when thousands of young men
succumb, and give themselves up to the aberrations of their minds and senses, and for two or
three years' folly spoil their lives beyond repair. If he had had time to yield to his thoughts
he would have fallen into discouragement or perhaps taken to dissipation: always when he turned
in upon himself he became a prey to his morbid dreams, and disgust with life, and Paris, and
the impure fermentation of all those millions of human beings mingling and rotting together.
But the sight of his sister's face was enough to dispel the nightmare: and since she was living
only that he might live, he would live, yes, he would be happy, in spite of himself.

So their lives were built on an ardent faith fashioned of stoicism, religion, and noble ambition.
All their endeavor was directed towards the one end: Olivier's success. Antoinette accepted
every kind of work, every humiliation that was offered her: she went as a governess to houses
where she was treated almost as a servant: she had to take her pupils out for walks, like a
nurse, wandering about the streets with them for hours together under pretext of teaching them
German. In her love for her brother and her pride she found pleasure even in such moral suffering
and weariness.

She would return home worn out to look after Olivier, who was a day-boarder at his school and
only came home in the evening. She would cook their dinner--a wretched dinner--on the gas-stove
or over a spirit-lamp. Olivier had never any appetite and everything disgusted him, and his
gorge would rise at the food: and she would have to force him to eat, or cudgel her brains
to invent some dish that would catch his fancy, and poor Antoinette was by no means a good
cook. And when she had taken a great deal of trouble she would have the mortification of hearing
him declare that her cooking was uneatable. It was only after moments of despair at her cooking-stove,--those
moments of silent despair which come to inexperienced young housekeepers and poison their lives
and sometimes their sleep, unknown to everybody--that she began to understand it a little.

After dinner, when she had washed up the dishes--(he would offer to help her, but she would
never let him),--she would take a motherly interest in her brother's work. She would hear him
his lessons, read his exercises, and even look up certain words in the dictionary for him,
always taking care not to ruffle up his sensitive little soul. They would spend the evening
at their one table at which they had both to eat and write. He would do his homework, she would
sew or do some copying. When he had gone to bed she would sit mending his clothes or doing
some work of her own.

Although they had difficulty in making both ends meet, they were both agreed that every penny
they could put by should be used in the first place to settle the debt which their mother owed
to the Poyets. It was not that the Poyets were importunate creditors: they had given no sign
of life: they never gave a thought to the money, which they counted as lost: they thought themselves
very lucky to have got rid of their undesirable relatives so cheaply. But it hurt the pride
and filial piety of the young Jeannins to think that their mother should have owed anything
to these people whom they despised. They pinched and scraped: they economized on their amusements,
on their clothes, on their food, in order to amass the two hundred francs--an enormous sum
for them. Antoinette would have liked to have done the saving by herself. But when her brother
found out what she was up to, nothing could keep him from doing likewise. They wore themselves
out in the effort, and were delighted when they could set aside a few sous a day.

In three years, by screwing and scraping, sou by sou, they had succeeded in getting the sum
together. It was a great joy to them. Antoinette went to the Poyets one evening. She was coldly
received, for they thought she had come to ask for help. They thought it advisable to take
the initiative: and reproached her for not letting them have any news of them: and not having
even told them of the death of her mother, and not coming to them when she wanted help. She
cut them short calmly by telling them that she had no intention of incommoding them: she had
come merely to return the money which had been borrowed from them: and she laid two banknotes
on the table and asked for a receipt. They changed their tone at once, and pretended to be
unwilling to accept it: they were feeling for her that sudden affection which comes to the
creditor for the debtor, who, after many years, returns the loan which he had ceased to reckon
upon. They inquired where she was living with her brother, and how they lived. She did not
reply, asked once more for the receipt, said that she was in a hurry, bowed coldly, and went
away. The Poyets were horrified at the girl's ingratitude.

Then, when she was rid of that obsession, Antoinette went on with the same sparing existence,
but now it was entirely for her brother's sake. Only she concealed it more to prevent his knowing
it: she economized on her clothes and sometimes on her food, to keep her brother well-dressed
and amused, and to make his life pleasanter and gayer, and to let him go every now and then
to a concert, or to the opera, which was Olivier's greatest joy. He was unwilling to go without
her, but she would always make excuses for not going so that he should feel no remorse: she
would pretend that she was too tired and did not want to go out: she would even go so far as
to say that music bored her. Her fond quibbles would not deceive him: but his boyish selfishness
would be too strong for him. He would go to the theater: once inside, he would be filled with
remorse, and it would haunt him all through the piece, and spoil his pleasure. One Sunday,
when she had packed him off to the Chatelet concert, he returned half an hour later, and told
Antoinette that when he reached the Saint Michel Bridge he had not the heart to go any farther:
the concert did not interest him: it hurt him too much to have any pleasure without her. Nothing
was sweeter to Antoinette, although she was sorry that her brother should be deprived of his
Sunday entertainment because of her. But Olivier never regretted it: when he saw the joy that
lit up his sister's face as he came in, a joy that she tried in vain to conceal, he felt happier
than the most lovely music in the world could ever have made him. They spent the afternoon
sitting together by the window, he with a book in his hand, she with her work, hardly reading
at all, hardly sewing at all, talking idly of things that interested neither of them. Never
had they had so delightful a Sunday. They agreed that they would never go alone to a concert
again: they could never enjoy anything alone.

She managed secretly to save enough money to surprise and delight Olivier with a hired piano,
which, on the hire-purchase system became their property at the end of a certain number of
months. The payments for it were a heavy burden for her to shoulder! It often haunted her dreams,
and she ruined her health in screwing together the necessary money. But, folly as it was, it
did assure them both so much happiness. Music was their Paradise in their hard life. It filled
an enormous place in their existence. They steeped themselves in music so as to forget the
rest of the world. There was danger in it too. Music is one of the great modern dissolvents.
Its languorous warmth, like the heat of a stove, or the enervating air of autumn, excites the
senses and destroys the will. But it was a relaxation for a creature forced into excessive,
joyless activity as was Antoinette. The Sunday concert was the only ray of light that shone
through the week of unceasing toil. They lived in the memory of the last concert and the eager
anticipation of the next, in those few hours spent outside Paris and out of the vile weather.
After a long wait outside in the rain, or the snow, or the wind and the cold, clinging together,
and trembling lest all the places should be taken, they would pass into the theater, where
they were lost in the throng, and sit on dark uncomfortable benches. They were crushed and
stifling, and often on the point of fainting from the heat and discomfort of it all:--but they
were happy, happy in their own and in each other's pleasure, happy to feel coursing through
their veins the flood of kindness, light, and strength, that surged forth from the great souls
of Beethoven and Wagner, happy, each of them, to see the dear, dear face light up--the poor,
pale face worn by suffering and premature anxieties. Antoinette would feel so tired and as
though loving arms were about her, holding her to a motherly breast! She would nestle in its
softness and warmth: and she would weep quietly. Olivier would press her hand. No one noticed
them in the dimness of the vast hall, where they were not the only suffering souls taking refuge
under the motherly wing of Music.

Antoinette had her religion to support her. She was very pious, and every day never missed
saying her prayers fervently and at length, and every Sunday she never missed going to Mass.
Even in the injustice of her wretched life she could not help believing in the love of the
divine Friend, who suffers with you, and, some day, will console you. Even more than with God,
she was in close communion with the beloved dead, and she used secretly to share all her trials
with them. But she was of an independent spirit and a clear intelligence: she stood apart from
other Catholics, who did not regard her altogether favorably: they thought her possessed of
an evil spirit: they were not far from regarding her as a Free Thinker, or on the way to it,
because, like the honest little Frenchwoman she was, she had no intention of renouncing her
own independent judgment: she believed not from obedience, like the base rabble, but from love.

Olivier no longer believed. The slow disintegration of his faith, which had set in during his
first months in Paris, had ended in its complete destruction. He had suffered cruelly: for
he was not of those who are strong enough or commonplace enough to dispense with faith: and
so he had passed through crises of mental agony. But he was at heart a mystic: and, though
he had lost his belief, yet no ideas could be closer to his own than those of his sister. They
both lived in a religious atmosphere. When they came home in the evening after the day's parting
their little flat was to them a haven, an inviolable refuge, poor, bitterly cold, but pure.
How far removed they felt there from the noise and the corrupt thoughts of Paris!...

They never talked much of their doings: for when one comes home tired one has hardly the heart
to revive the memory of a painful day by the tale of its happenings. Instinctively they set
themselves to forget it. Especially during the first hour when they met again for dinner they
avoided questions of all kinds. They would greet each other with their eyes: and sometimes
they would not speak a word all through the meal. Antoinette would look at her brother as he
sat dreaming, just as he used to do when he was a little boy. She would gently touch his hand:

"Come!" she would say, with a smile. "Courage!"

He would smile too and go on eating. So dinner would pass without their trying to talk. They
were hungry for silence. Only when they had done would their tongues be loosed a little, when
they felt rested, and when each of them in the comfort of the understanding love of the other
had wiped out the impure traces of the day.

Olivier would sit down at the piano. Antoinette was out of practice from letting him play always:
for it was the only relaxation that he had: and he would give himself up to it wholeheartedly.
He had a fine temperament for music: his feminine nature, more suited to love than to action,
with loving sympathy could catch the thoughts of the musicians whose works he played, and merge
itself in them and with passionate fidelity render the finest shades,--at least, within the
limitations of his physical strength, which gave out before the Titanic effort of Tristan,
or the later sonatas of Beethoven. He loved best to take refuge in Mozart or Gluck, and theirs
was the music that Antoinette preferred.

Sometimes she would sing too, but only very simple songs, old melodies. She had a light mezzo
voice, plaintive and delicate. She was so shy that she could never sing in company, and hardly
even before Olivier: her throat used to contract. There was an air of Beethoven set to some
Scotch words, of which she was particularly fond: Faithful Johnnie: it was calm, so calm ...
and with what a depth of tenderness!... It was like herself. Olivier could never hear her sing
it without the tears coming to his eyes.

But she preferred listening to her brother. She would hurry through her housework and leave
the door of the kitchen open the better to hear Olivier: but in spite of all her care he would
complain impatiently of the noise she made with her pots and pans. Then she would close the
door; and, when she had finished, she would come and sit in a low chair, not near the piano--(for
he could not bear any one near him when he was playing),--but near the fireplace: and there
she would sit curled up like a cat, with her back to the piano, and her eyes fixed on the golden
eyes of the fire, in which a lump of coal was smoldering, and muse over her memories of the
past. When nine o'clock rang she would have to pull herself together to remind Olivier that
it was time to stop. It would be hard to drag him, and to drag herself, away from dreams: but
Olivier would still have some work to do. And he must not go to bed too late. He would not
obey her at once: he always needed a certain time in which to shake free of the music before
he could apply himself seriously to his work. His thoughts would be off wandering. Often it
would be half-past nine before he could shake free of his misty dreams. Antoinette, bending
over her work at the other side of the table, would know that he was doing nothing: but she
dared not look in his direction too often for fear of irritating him by seeming to be watching him.

He was at the ungrateful age--the happy age--when a boy saunters dreamily through his days.
He had a clear forehead, girlish eyes, deep and trustful, often with dark circles round them,
a wide mouth with rather thick pouting lips, a rather crooked smile, vague, absent, taking:
he wore his hair long so that it hung down almost to his eyes, and made a great bunch at the
back of his neck, while one rebellious lock stuck up at the back: a neckerchief loosely tied
round his neck--(his sister used to tie it carefully in a bow every morning):--a waistcoat
which was always buttonless, although she was for ever sewing them on: no cuffs: large hands
with bony wrists. He had a heavy, sleepy, bantering expression, and he was always wool-gathering.
His eyes would blink and wander round Antoinette's room:--(his work-table was in her room):--they
would light on the little iron bed, above which hung an ivory crucifix, with a sprig of box,--on
the portraits of his father and mother,--on an old photograph of the little provincial town
with its tower mirrored in its waters. And when they reached his sister's pallid face, bending
in silence over her work, he would be filled with an immense pity for her and his own indolence:
and he would work furiously to make up for lost time.

He spent his holidays in reading. They would read together each with a separate book. In spite
of their love for each other they could not read aloud. That hurt them as an offense against
modesty. A fine book was to them as a secret which should only be murmured in the silence of
the heart. When a passage delighted them, instead of reading it aloud, they would hand the
book over, with a finger marking the place: and they would say:

"Read that."

Then, while the other was reading, the one who had already read would with shining eyes gaze
into the dear face to see what emotions were roused and to share the enjoyment of it.

But often with their books open in front of them they would not read: they would talk. Especially
towards the end of the evening they would feel the need of opening their hearts, and they would
have less difficulty in talking. Olivier had sad thoughts: and in his weakness he had to rid
himself of all that tortured him by pouring out his troubles to some one else. He was a prey
to doubt. Antoinette had to give him courage, to defend him against himself: it was an unceasing
struggle, which began anew each day. Olivier would say bitter, gloomy things: and when he had
said them he would be relieved: but he never troubled to think how they might hurt his sister.
Only very late in the day did he see how he was exhausting her: he was sapping her strength
and infecting her with his own doubts. Antoinette never let it appear how she suffered. She
was by nature valiant and gay, and she forced herself to maintain a show of gaiety, even when
that gracious quality was long since dead in her. She had moments of utter weariness, and revolt
against the life of perpetual sacrifice to which she had pledged herself. But she condemned
such thoughts and would not analyze them: they came to her in spite of herself, and she would
not accept them. She found help in prayer, except when her heart could not pray--(as sometimes
happens)--when it was, as it were, withered and dry. Then she could only wait in silence, feverish
and ashamed, for the return of grace. Olivier never had the least suspicion of the agony she
suffered. At such times Antoinette would make some excuse and go away and lock herself in her
room: and she would not appear again until the crisis was over: then she would be smiling,
sorrowful, more tender than ever, and, as it were, remorseful for having suffered.

Their rooms were adjoining. Their beds were placed on either side of the same wall: they could
talk to each other through it in whispers: and when they could not sleep they would tap gently
on the wall to say:

"Are you asleep? I can't sleep."

The partition was so thin that it was almost as though they shared the same room. But the door
between their rooms was always locked at night, in obedience to an instinctive and profound
modesty,--a sacred feeling:--it was only left open when Olivier was ill, as too often happened.

He did not gain in health. Rather he seemed to grow weaker. He was always ailing: throat, chest,
head or heart: if he caught the slightest cold there was always the danger of its turning to
bronchitis: he caught scarlatina and almost died of it: but even when he was not ill he would
betray strange symptoms of serious illnesses, which fortunately did not come to anything: he
would have pains in his lungs or his heart. One day the doctor who examined him diagnosed pericarditis,
or peripneumonia, and the great specialist who was then consulted confirmed his fears. But
it came to nothing. It was his nerves that were wrong, and it is common knowledge that disorders
of the nerves take the most unaccountable shapes: they are got rid of at the cost of days of
anxiety. But such days were terrible for Antoinette, and they gave her sleepless nights. She
would lie in a state of terror in her bed, getting up every now and then to listen to her brother's
breathing. She would think that perhaps he was dying, she would feel sure, convinced of it:
she would get up, trembling, and clasp her hands, and hold them fast against her lips to keep
herself from crying out.

"Oh! God! Oh! God!" she would moan. "Take him not from me! Not that ... not that. You have
no right!... Not that, oh! God, I beg!... Oh, mother, mother! Come to my aid! Save him: let
him live!..."

She would lie at full stretch.

"Ah! To die by the way, when so much has been done, when we were nearly there, when he was
going to be happy ... no: that could not be: it would be too cruel!..."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not long before Olivier gave her other reasons for anxiety.

He was profoundly honest, like herself, but he was weak of will and too open-minded and too
complex not to be uneasy, skeptical, indulgent towards what he knew to be evil, and attracted
by pleasure. Antoinette was so pure that it was some time before she understood what was going
on in her brother's mind. She discovered it suddenly, one day.

Olivier thought she was out. She usually had a lesson at that hour: but at the last moment
she had received word from her pupil, telling her that she could not have her that day. She
was secretly pleased, although it meant a few francs less in that week's earnings: but she
was very tired and she lay down on her bed: she was very glad to be able to rest for once without
reproaching herself. Olivier came in from school bringing another boy with him. They sat down
in the next room and began to talk. She could hear everything they said: they thought they
were alone and did not restrain themselves. Antoinette smiled as she heard her brother's merry
voice. But soon she ceased to smile, and her blood ran cold. They were talking of dirty things
with an abominable crudity of expression: they seemed to revel in it. She heard Olivier, her
boy Olivier, laughing: and from his lips, which she had thought so innocent, there came words
so obscene that the horror of it chilled her. Keen anguish stabbed her to the heart. It went
on and on: they could not stop talking, and she could not help listening. At last they went
out, and Antoinette was left alone. Then she wept: something had died in her: the ideal image
that she had fashioned of her brother--of her boy--was plastered with mud: it was a mortal
agony to her. She did not say anything to him when they met again in the evening. He saw that
she had been weeping and he could not think why. He could not understand why she had changed
her manner towards him. It was some time before she was able to recover herself.

But the worst blow of all for her was one evening when he did not come home. She did not go
to bed, but sat up waiting for him. It was not only her moral purity that was hurt: her suffering
went down to the most mysterious inner depths of her heart--those same depths where there lurked
the most awful feelings of the human heart, feelings over which she cast a veil, to hide them
from her sight.

Olivier's first aim had been the declaration of his independence. He returned in the morning,
casting about for the proper attitude and quite prepared to fling some insolent remark at his
sister if she had said anything to him. He stole into the flat on tiptoe so as not to waken
her. But when he saw her standing there, waiting for him, pale, red-eyed from weeping, when
he saw that, instead of making any effort to reproach him, she only set about silently cooking
his breakfast, before he left for school, and that she had nothing to say to him, but was overwhelmed,
so that she was, in herself, a living reproach, he could hold out no longer: he flung himself
down before her, buried his face in her lap, and they both wept. He was ashamed of himself,
sick at the thought of what he had done: he felt degraded. He tried to speak, but she would
not let him and laid her hand on his lips: and he kissed her hand. They said no more: they
understood each other. Olivier vowed that he would never again do anything to hurt Antoinette,
and that he would be in all things what she wanted him to be. But though she tried bravely
she could not so easily forget so sharp a wound: she recovered from it slowly. There was a
certain awkwardness between them. Her love for him was just the same: but in her brother's
soul she had seen something that was foreign to herself, and she was fearful of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was the more overwhelmed by the glimpse she had had into Olivier's inmost heart, in that,
about the same time, she had to put up with the unwelcome attentions of certain men. When she
came home in the evening at nightfall, and especially when she had to go out after dinner to
take or fetch her copying, she suffered agonies from her fear of being accosted, and followed
(as sometimes happened) and forced to listen to insulting advances. She took her brother with
her whenever she could under pretext of making him take a walk: but he only consented grudgingly
and she dared not insist: she did not like to interrupt his work. She was so provincial and
so pure that she could not get used to such ways. Paris at night was to her like a dark forest
in which she felt that she was being tracked by dreadful, savage beasts: and she was afraid
to leave the house. But she had to go out. She would put off going out as long as possible:
she was always fearful. And when she thought that her Olivier would be--was perhaps--like one
of those men who pursued her, she could hardly hold out her hand to him when she came in. He
could not think what he had done to change her so, and she was angry with herself.

She was not very pretty, but she had charm, and attracted attention though she did nothing
to do so. She was always very simply dressed, almost always in black: she was not very tall,
graceful, frail-looking; she rarely spoke: she tripped quietly through the crowded streets,
avoiding attention, which, however, she attracted in spite of herself by the sweetness of the
expression of her tired eyes and her pure young lips. Sometimes she saw that she had attracted
notice: and though it put her to confusion she was pleased all the same. Who can say what gentle
and chaste pleasure in itself there may be in so innocent a creature at feeling herself in
sympathy with others? All that she felt was shown in a slight awkwardness in her movements,
a timid, sidelong glance: and it was sweet to see and very touching. And her uneasiness added
to her attraction. She excited interest, and, as she was a poor girl, with none to protect
her, men did not hesitate to tell her so.

Sometimes she used to go to the house of some rich Jews, the Nathans, who took an interest
in her because they had met her at the house of some friends of theirs where she gave lessons:
and, in spite of her shyness, she had not been able to avoid accepting invitations to their
parties. M. Alfred Nathan was a well-known professor in Paris, a distinguished scientist, and
at the same time he was very fond of society, with that strange mixture of learning and frivolity
which is so common among the Jews. Madame Nathan was a mixture in equal proportions of real
kindliness and excessive worldliness. They were both generous, with loud-voiced, sincere, but
intermittent sympathy for Antoinette.--Generally speaking Antoinette had found more kindness
among the Jews than among the members of her own sect. They have many faults: but they have
one great quality--perhaps the greatest of all: they are alive, and human: nothing human is
foreign to them and they are interested in every living being. Even when they lack real, warm
sympathy they feel a perpetual curiosity which makes them seek out men and ideas that are of
worth, however different from themselves they may be. Not that, generally speaking, they do
anything much to help them, for they are interested in too many things at once and much more
a prey to the vanities of the world than other people, while they pretend to be immune from
them. But at least they do something: and that is saying a great deal in the present apathetic
condition of society. They are an active balm in society, the very leaven of life.--Antoinette
who, among the Catholics, had been brought sharp up against a wall of icy indifference, was
keenly alive to the worth of the interest, however superficial it might be, which the Nathans
took in her. Madame Nathan had marked Antoinette's life of devoted sacrifice: she was sensible
of her physical and moral charm: and she made a show of taking her under her protection. She
had no children: but she loved young people and often had gatherings of them in her house:
and she insisted on Antoinette's coming also, and breaking away from her solitude, and having
some amusement in her life. And as she had no difficulty in guessing that Antoinette's shyness
was in part the result of her poverty, she even went so far as to offer to give her a pretty
frock or two, which Antoinette refused proudly: but her kindly patroness found a way of forcing
her to accept a few of those little presents which are so dear to a woman's innocent vanity.
Antoinette was both grateful and embarrassed. She forced herself to go to Madame Nathan's parties
from time to time: and being young she managed to enjoy herself in spite of everything.

But in that rather mixed society of all sorts of young people Madame Nathan's protegee, being
poor and pretty, became at once the mark of two or three young gentlemen, who with perfect
confidence in themselves picked her out for their attentions. They calculated how far her timidity
would go: they even made bets about her.

One day she received certain anonymous letters--or rather letters signed with a noble pseudonym--which
conveyed a declaration of love: at first they were love-letters, flattering, ardent, appointing
a rendezvous: then they quickly became bolder, threatening, and soon insulting and basely slanderous:
they stripped her, exposed her, besmirched her with their coarse expressions of desire: they
tried to play upon Antoinette's simplicity by making her fearful of a public insult if she
did not go to the appointed rendezvous. She wept bitterly at the thought of having called down
on herself such base proposals: and these insults scorched her pride. She did not know what
to do. She did not like to speak to her brother about it: she knew that he would feel it too
keenly and that he would make the affair even more serious than it was. She had no friends.
The police? She would not do that for fear of scandal. But somehow she had to make an end of
it. She felt that her silence would not sufficiently defend her, that the blackguard who was
pursuing her would hold to the chase and that he would go on until to go farther would be dangerous.

He had just sent her a sort of ultimatum commanding her to meet him next day at the Luxembourg.
She went.--By racking her brains she had come to the conclusion that her persecutor must have
met her at Madame Nathan's. In one of his letters he had alluded to something which could only
have happened there. She begged Madame Nathan to do her a great favor and to drive her to the
door of the gallery and to wait for her outside. She went in. In front of the appointed picture
her tormentor accosted her triumphantly and began to talk to her with affected politeness.
She stared straight at him without a word. When he had finished his remark he asked her jokingly
why she was staring at him. She replied:

"You are a coward."

He was not put out by such a trifle as that, and became familiar in his manner. She said:

"You have tried to threaten me with a scandal. Very well, I have come to give you your scandal.
You have asked for it!"

She was trembling all over, and she spoke in a loud voice to show him that she was quite equal
to attracting attention to themselves. People had already begun to watch them. He felt that
she would stick at nothing. He lowered his voice. She said once more, for the last time:

"You are a coward," and turned her back on him.

Not wishing to seem to have given in he followed her. She left the gallery with the fellow
following hard on her heels. She walked straight to the carriage waiting there, wrenched the
door open, and her pursuer found himself face to face with Madame Nathan, who recognized him
and greeted him by name. His face fell and he bolted.

Antoinette had to tell the whole story to her companion. She was unwilling to do so, and only
hinted roughly at the facts. It was painful to her to reveal to a stranger the intimate secrets
of her life, and the sufferings of her injured modesty. Madame Nathan scolded her for not having
told her before. Antoinette begged her not to tell anybody. That was the end of it: and Madame
Nathan did not even need to strike the fellow off her visiting list: for he was careful not
to appear again.

About the same time another sorrow of a very different kind came to Antoinette.

At the Nathans' she met a man of forty, a very good fellow, who was in the Consular service
in the Far East, and had come home on a few months' leave. He fell in love with her. The meeting
had been planned unknown to Antoinette, by Madame Nathan, who had taken it into her head that
she must find a husband for her little friend. He was a Jew. He was not good-looking and he
was no longer young. He was rather bald, and round-shouldered: but he had kind eyes, an affectionate
way with him, and he could feel for and understand suffering, for he had suffered himself.
Antoinette was no longer the romantic girl, the spoiled child, dreaming of life as a lovely
day's walk on her lover's arm: now she saw the hard struggle of life, which began again, every
day, allowing no time for rest, or, if rest were taken, it might be to lose in one moment all
the ground that had been gained, inch by inch, through years of striving: and she thought it
would be very sweet to be able to lean on the arm of a friend, and share his sorrows with him,
and be able to close her eyes for a little, while he watched over her. She knew that it was
a dream: but she had not had the courage to renounce her dream altogether. In her heart she
knew quite well that a dowerless girl had nothing to hope for in the world in which she lived.
The old French middle-classes are known throughout the world for the spirit of sordid interest
in which they conduct their marriages. The Jews are far less grasping with money. Among the
Jews it is no uncommon thing for a rich young man to choose a poor girl, or a young woman of
fortune to set herself passionately to win a man of intellect. But in the French middle-classes,
Catholic and provincial in their outlook, almost always money woos money. And to what end?
Poor wretches, they have none but dull commonplace desires: they can do nothing but eat, yawn,
sleep--save. Antoinette knew them. She had observed their ways from her childhood on. She had
seen them with the eyes of wealth and the eyes of poverty. She had no illusions left about
them, nor about the treatment she had to expect from them. And so the attentions of this man
who had asked her to marry him came as an unhoped for treasure in her life. At first she did
not think of him as a lover, but gradually she was filled with gratitude and tenderness towards
him. She would have accepted his proposal if it had not meant following him to the colonies
and consequently leaving her brother. She refused: and though her lover understood the magnanimity
of her reason for doing so, he could not forgive her: love is so selfish, that the lover will
not hear of being sacrificed even to those virtues which are dearest to him in the beloved.
He gave up seeing her: when he went away he never wrote: she had no news of him at all until,
five or six months later, she received a printed intimation, addressed in his hand, that he
had married another woman.

Antoinette felt it deeply. She was broken-hearted, and she offered up her suffering to God:
she tried to persuade herself that she was justly punished for having for one moment lost sight
of her one duty, to devote herself to her brother: and she grew more and more wrapped up in it.

She withdrew from the world altogether. She even dropped going to the Nathans', for they were
a little cold towards her after she refused the marriage which they had arranged for her: they
too refused to see any justification for her. Madame Nathan had decided that the marriage should
take place, and her vanity was hurt at its missing fire through Antoinette's fault. She thought
her scruples certainly quite praiseworthy, but exaggerated and sentimental: and thereafter
she lost interest in the silly little goose. It was necessary for her always to be helping
people, with or without their consent, and she quickly found another protegee to absorb, for
the time being, all the interest and devotion which she had to expend.

Olivier knew nothing of his sister's sad little romance. He was a sentimental, irresponsible
boy, living in his dreams and fancies. It was impossible to depend on him in spite of his intelligence
and charm and his very real tenderheartedness. Often he would fling away the results of months
of work by his irresponsibility, or in a fit of discouragement, or by some boyish freak, or
some fancied love affair, in which he would waste all his time and energy. He would fall in
love with a pretty face, that he had seen once, with coquettish little girls, whom perhaps
he once met out somewhere, though they never paid any attention to him. He would be infatuated
with something he had read, a poet, or a musician: he would steep himself in their works for
months together, to the exclusion of everything else and the detriment of his studies. He had
to be watched always, though great care had to be taken that he did not know it, for he was
easily wounded. There was always a danger of a seizure. He had the feverish excitement, the
want of balance, the uneasy trepidation, that are often found in those who have a consumptive
tendency. The doctor had not concealed the danger from Antoinette. The sickly plant, transplanted
from the provinces to Paris, needed fresh air and light. Antoinette could not provide them.
They had not enough money to be able to go away from Paris during the holidays. All the rest
of their year every day in the week was full, and on Sundays they were so tired that they never
wanted to go out, except to a concert.

There were Sundays in the summer when Antoinette would make an effort and drag Olivier off
to the woods outside Paris, near Chaville or Saint-Cloud. But the woods were full of noisy
couples, singing music-hall songs, and littering the place with greasy bits of paper: they
did not find the divine solitude which purifies and gives rest. And in the evening when they
turned homewards they had to suffer the roar and clatter of the trains, the dirty, crowded,
low, narrow, dark carriages of the suburban lines, the coarseness of certain things they saw,
the noisy, singing, shouting, smelly people, and the reek of tobacco smoke. Neither Antoinette
nor Olivier could understand the people, and they would return home disgusted and demoralized.
Olivier would beg Antoinette not to go for Sunday walks again; and for some time Antoinette
would not have the heart to go again. And then she would insist, though it was even more disagreeable
to her than to Olivier: but she thought it necessary for her brother's health. She would force
him to go out once more. But their new experience would be no better than the last, and Olivier
would protest bitterly. So they stayed shut up in the stifling town, and, in their prison-yard,
they sighed for the open fields.

       *       *       *       *       *

Olivier had reached the end of his schooldays. The examinations for the Ecole Normale were
over. It was quite time. Antoinette was very tired. She was counting on his success: her brother
had everything in his favor. At school he was regarded as one of the best pupils: and all his
masters were agreed in praising his industry and intelligence, except for a certain want of
mental discipline which made it difficult for him to bend to any sort of plan. But the responsibility
of it weighed on Olivier so heavily that he lost his head as the examination came near. He
was worn out, and paralyzed by the fear of failure, and a morbid shyness that crept over him.
He trembled at the thought of appearing before the examiners in public. He had always suffered
from shyness: in class he would blush and choke when he had to speak: at first he could hardly
do more than answer his name. And it was much more easy for him to reply impromptu than when
he knew that he was going to be questioned: the thought of it made him ill: his mind rushed
ahead picturing every detail of the ordeal as it would happen: and the longer he had to wait,
the more he was obsessed by it. It might be said that he passed every examination at least
twice: for he passed it in his dreams on the night before and expended all his energy, so that
he had none left for the real examination.

But he did not even reach the viva voce, the very thought of which had sent him into a cold
sweat the night before. In the written examination on a philosophical subject, which at any
ordinary time would have sent him flying off, he could not even manage to squeeze out a couple
of pages in six hours. For the first few hours his brain was empty; he could think of nothing,
nothing. It was like a blank wall against which he hurled himself in vain. Then, an hour before
the end, the wall was rent and a few rays of light shone through the crevices. He wrote an
excellent short essay, but it was not enough to place him. When Antoinette saw the despair
on his face as he came out, she foresaw the inevitable blow, and she was as despairing as he:
but she did not show it. Even in the most desperate situations she had always an inexhaustible
capacity for hope.

Olivier was rejected.

He was crushed by it. Antoinette pretended to smile as though it were nothing of any importance:
but her lips trembled. She consoled her brother, and told him that it was an easily remedied
misfortune, and that he would be certain to pass next year, and win a better place. She did
not tell him how vital it was to her that he should have passed, that year, or how utterly
worn out she felt in soul and body, or how uneasy she felt about fighting through another year
like that. But she had to go on. If she were to go away before Olivier had passed he would
never have the courage to go on fighting alone: he would succumb.

She concealed her weariness from him, and even redoubled her efforts. She wore herself to skin
and bone to let him have amusement and change during the holidays so that he might resume work
with greater energy and confidence. But at the very outset her small savings had to be broken
into, and, to make matters worse, she lost some of her most profitable pupils.

Another year!... Within sight of the final ordeal they were almost at breaking-point. Above
all, they had to live, and discover some other means of scraping along. Antoinette accepted
a situation as a governess in Germany which had been offered her through the Nathans. It was
the very last thing she would have thought of, but nothing else offered at the time, and she
could not wait. She had never left her brother for a single day during the last six years:
and she could not imagine what life would be like without seeing and hearing him from day to
day. Olivier was terrified when he thought of it: but he dared not say anything: it was he
who had brought it about: if he had passed Antoinette would not have been reduced to such an
extremity: he had no right to say anything, or to take into account his own grief at the parting:
it was for her to decide.

They spent the last days together in dumb anguish, as though one of them were about to die:
they hid away from each other when their sorrow was too much for them. Antoinette gazed into
Olivier's eyes for counsel. If he had said to her: "Don't go!" she would have stayed, although
she had to go. Up to the very last moment, in the cab in which they drove to the station, she
was prepared to break her resolution: she felt that she could never go through with it. At
a word from him one word!... But he said nothing. Like her, he set his teeth and would not
budge.--She made him promise to write to her every day, and to conceal nothing from her, and
to send for her if he were ever in the least danger.

       *       *       *       *       *

They parted. While Olivier returned with a heavy heart to his school, where it had been agreed
that he should board, the train carried Antoinette, crushed and sorrowful, towards Germany.
Lying awake and staring through the night they felt the minutes dragging them farther and farther
apart, and they called to each other in whispering voices.

Antoinette was fearful of the new world to which she was going. She had changed much in six
years. She who had once been so bold and afraid of nothing had grown so used to silence and
isolation that it hurt her to go out into the world again. The laughing, gay, chattering Antoinette
of the old happy times had passed away with them. Unhappiness had made her sensitive and shy.
No doubt living with Olivier had infected her with his timidity. She had had hardly anybody
to talk to except her brother. She was scared by the least little thing, and was really in
a panic when she had to pay a call. And so it was a nervous torture to her to think that she
was now going to live among strangers, to have to talk to them, to be always with them. The
poor girl had no more real vocation for teaching than her brother: she did her work conscientiously,
but her heart was not in it, and she had not the support of feeling that there was any use
in it. She was made to love and not to teach. And no one cared for her love.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nowhere was her capacity for love less in demand than in her new situation in Germany. The
Gruenebaums, whose children she was engaged to teach French, took not the slightest interest
in her. They were haughty and familiar, indifferent and indiscreet: they paid fairly well:
and, as a result, they regarded everybody in their payment as being under an obligation to
them, and thought they could do just as they liked. They treated Antoinette as a superior sort
of servant and allowed her hardly any liberty. She did not even have a room to herself: she
slept in a room adjoining that of the children and had to leave the door open all night. She
was never alone. They had no respect for her need of taking refuge every now and then within
herself--the sacred right of every human being to preserve an inner sanctuary of solitude.
The only happiness she had lay in correspondence and communion with her brother: she made use
of every moment of liberty she could snatch. But even that was encroached upon. As soon as
she began to write they would prowl about in her room and ask her what she was writing. When
she was reading a letter they would ask her what was in it: by their persistent impertinent
curiosity they found out about her "little brother." She had to hide from them. Too shameful
sometimes were the expedients to which she had to resort, and the holes and crannies in which
she had to hide, in order to be able to read Olivier's letters unobserved. If she left a letter
lying in her room she was sure it would be read: and as she had nothing she could lock except
her box, she had to carry any papers she did not want to have read about with her: they were
always prying into her business and her intimate affairs, and they were always fishing for
her secret thoughts. It was not that the Gruenebaums were really interested in her, only they
thought that, as they paid her, she was their property. They were not malicious about it: indiscretion
was with them an incurable habit: they were never offended with each other.

Nothing could have been more intolerable to Antoinette than such espionage, such a lack of
moral modesty, which made it impossible for her to escape even for an hour a day from their
curiosity. The Gruenebaums were hurt by the haughty reserve with which she treated them. Naturally
they found highly moral reasons to justify their vulgar curiosity, and to condemn Antoinette's
desire to be immune from it.

"It was their duty," they thought, "to know the private life of a girl living under their roof,
as a member of their household, to whom they had intrusted the education of their children:
they were responsible for her."--(That is the sort of thing that so many mistresses say of
their servants, mistresses whose "responsibility" does not go so far as to spare the unhappy
girls any fatigue or work that must revolt them, but is entirely limited to denying them every
sort of pleasure.)--"And that Antoinette should refuse to acknowledge that duty, imposed on
them by conscience, could only show," they concluded, "that she was conscious of being not
altogether beyond reproach: an honest girl has nothing to conceal."

So Antoinette lived under a perpetual persecution, against which she was always on her guard,
so that it made her seem even more cold and reserved than she was.

Every day her brother wrote her a twelve-page letter: and she contrived to write to him every
day even if it were only a few lines. Olivier tried hard to be brave and not to show his grief
too clearly. But he was bored and dull. His life had always been so bound up with his sister's
that, now that she was torn from him, he seemed to have lost part of himself: he could not
use his arms, or his legs, or his brains, he could not walk, or play the piano, or work, or
do anything, not even dream--except through her. He slaved away at his books from morning to
night: but it was no good: his thoughts were elsewhere: he would be suffering, or thinking
of her, or of the morrow's letter: he would sit staring at the clock, waiting for the day's
letter: and when it arrived his fingers would tremble with joy--with fear, too--as he tore
open the envelope. Never did lover tremble with more tenderness and anxiety at a letter from
his mistress. He would hide away, like Antoinette, to read his letters: he would carry them
about with him: and at night he always had the last letter under his pillow, and he would touch
it from time to time to make sure that it was still there, during the long, sleepless nights
when he lay awake dreaming of his dear sister. How far removed from her he felt! He felt that
most dreadfully when Antoinette's letters were delayed by the post and came a day late. Two
days, two nights, between them!... He exaggerated the time and the distance because he had
never traveled. His imagination would take fire:

"Heavens! If she were to fall ill! There would be time for her to die before he could see her
... Why had she not written to him, just a line or two, the day before?... Was she ill?...
Yes. She was surely ill ..." He would choke.--More often still he would be terrified of dying
away from her, dying alone, among people who did not care, in the horrible school, in grim,
gray Paris. He would make himself ill with the thought of it.... "Should he write and tell
her to come back?"--But then he would be ashamed of his cowardice. Besides, as soon as he began
to write to her it gave him such joy to be in communion with her that for a moment he would
forget his suffering. It seemed to him that he could see her, hear her voice: he would tell
her everything: never had he spoken to her so intimately, so passionately, when they had been
together: he would call her "my true, brave, dear, kind, beloved, little sister," and say,
"I love you so." Indeed they were real love-letters.

Their tenderness was sweet and comforting to Antoinette: they were all the air she had to breathe.
If they did not come in the morning at the usual time she would be miserable. Once or twice
it happened that the Gruenebaums, from carelessness, or--who knows?--from a wicked desire to
tease, forgot to give them to her until the evening, and once even until the next morning:
and she worked herself into a fever.--On New Year's Day they had the same idea, without telling
each other: they planned a surprise, and each sent a long telegram--(at vast expense)--and
their messages arrived at the same time.--Olivier always consulted Antoinette about his work
and his troubles: Antoinette gave him advice, and encouragement, and fortified him with her
strength, though indeed she had not really enough for herself.

She was stifled in the foreign country, where she knew nobody, and nobody was interested in
her, except the wife of a professor, lately come to the town, who also felt out of her element.
The good creature was kind and motherly, and sympathetic with the brother and sister who loved
each other so and had to live apart--(for she had dragged part of her story out of Antoinette):--but
she was so noisy, so commonplace, she was so lacking--though quite innocently--in tact and
discretion that aristocratic little Antoinette was irritated and drew back. She had no one
in whom she could confide and so all her troubles were pent up, and weighed heavily upon her:
sometimes she thought she must give way under them: but she set her teeth and struggled on.
Her health suffered: she grew very thin. Her brother's letters became more and more downhearted.
In a fit of depression he wrote:

"Come back, come back, come back!..."

But he had hardly sent the letter off than he was ashamed of it and wrote another begging Antoinette
to tear up the first and give no further thought to it. He even pretended to be in good spirits
and not to be wanting his sister. It hurt his umbrageous vanity to think that he might seem
incapable of doing without her.

Antoinette was not deceived: she read his every thought: but she did not know what to do. One
day she almost went to him: she went to the station to find out what time the train left for
Paris. And then she said to herself that it was madness: the money she was earning was enough
to pay for Olivier's board: they must hold on as long as they could. She was not strong enough
to make up her mind: in the morning her courage would spring forth again: but as the day dragged
towards evening her strength would fail her and she would think of flying to him. She was homesick,--longing
for the country that had treated her so hardly, the country that enshrined all the relics of
her past life,--and she was aching to hear the language that her brother spoke, the language
in which she told her love for him.

Then it was that a company of French actors passed through the little German town. Antoinette,
who rarely visited the theater--(she had neither time nor taste for it)--was seized with an
irresistible longing to hear her own language spoken, to take refuge in France.

The rest is known.[Footnote: See Jean-Christophe--I, "Revolt."]

There were no seats left in the theater: she met the young musician, Jean-Christophe, whom
she did not know, and he, seeing her disappointment, offered to share with her a box which
he had to give away: in her confusion she accepted. Her presence with Christophe set tongues
wagging in the little town: and the malicious rumors came at once to the ears of the Gruenebaums,
who, being already inclined to believe anything ill of the young Frenchwoman, and furious with
Christophe as a result of certain events which have been narrated elsewhere, dismissed Antoinette
without more ado.

She, who was so chaste and modest, she, whose whole life had been absorbed by her love for
her brother and never yet had been besmirched with one thought of evil, nearly died of shame,
when she understood the nature of the charge against her. Not for one moment was she resentful
against Christophe. She knew that he was as innocent as she, and that, if he had injured her,
he had meant only to be kind: she was grateful to him. She knew nothing of him, save that he
was a musician, and that he was much maligned: but, in her ignorance of life and men, she had
a natural intuition about people, which unhappiness had sharpened, and in her queer, boorish
companion she had recognized a quality of candor equal to her own, and a sturdy kindness, the
mere memory of which was comforting and good to think on. The evil she had heard of him did
not at all affect the confidence which Christophe had inspired in her. Being herself a victim
she had no doubt that he was in the same plight, suffering, as she did, though for a longer
time, from the malevolence of the townspeople who insulted him. And as she always forgot herself
in the thought of others the idea of what Christophe must have suffered distracted her mind
a little from her own torment. Nothing in the world could have induced her to try to see him
again, or to write to him: her modesty and pride forbade it. She told herself that he did not
know the harm he had done, and, in her gentleness, she hoped that he would never know it.

She left Germany. An hour away from the town it chanced that the train in which she was traveling
passed the train by which Christophe was returning from a neighboring town where he had been
spending the day.

For a few minutes their carriages stopped opposite each other, and in the silence of the night
they saw each other, but did not speak. What could they have said save a few trivial words?
That would have been a profanation of the indefinable feeling of common pity and mysterious
sympathy which had sprung up in them, and was based on nothing save the sureness of their inward
vision. During those last moments, when, still strangers, they gazed into each other's eyes,
they saw in each other things which never had appeared to any other soul among the people with
whom they lived. Everything must pass: the memory of words, kisses, passionate embraces: but
the contact of souls, which have once met and hailed each other and the throng of passing shapes,
that never can be blotted out. Antoinette bore it with her in the innermost recesses of her
heart--that poor heart, so swathed about with sorrow and sad thoughts, from out the midst of
which there smiled a misty light, which seemed to steal sweetly from the earth, a pale and
tender light like that which floods the Elysian Shades of Gluck.

       *       *       *       *       *

She returned to Olivier. It was high time she returned to him. He had just fallen ill: and
the poor, nervous, unhappy little creature who trembled, at the thought of illness before it
came--now that he was really ill, refused to write to his sister for fear of upsetting her.
But he called to her, prayed for her coming as for a miracle.

When the miracle happened he was lying in the school infirmary, feverish and wandering. When
he saw her he made no sound. How often had he seen her enter in his fevered fancy!... He sat
up in bed, gaping, and trembling lest it should be once more only an illusion. And when she
sat down on the bed by his side, when she took him in her arms and he had taken her in his,
when he felt her soft cheek against his lips, and her hands still cold from traveling by night
in his, when he was quite, quite sure that it was his dear sister he began to weep. He could
do nothing else: he was still the "little cry-baby" that he had been when he was a child. He
clung to her and held her close for fear she should go away from him again. How changed they
were! How sad they looked!... No matter! They were together once more: everything was lit up,
the infirmary, the school, the gloomy day: they clung to each other, they would never let each
other go. Before she had said a word he made her swear that she would not go away again. He
had no need to make her swear: no, she would never go away again: they had been too unhappy
away from each other: their mother was right: anything was better than being parted. Even poverty,
even death, so only they were together.

They took rooms. They wanted to take their old little flat, horrible though it was: but it
was occupied. Their new rooms also looked out on to a yard: but above a wall they could see
the top of a little acacia and grew fond of it at once, as a friend from the country, a prisoner
like themselves, in the paved wilderness of the city. Olivier quickly recovered his health,
or rather, what he was pleased to call his health:--(for what was health to him would have
been illness to a stronger boy).--Antoinette's unhappy stay in Germany had helped her to save
a little money: and she made some more by the translation of a German book which a publisher
accepted. For a time, then, they were free of financial anxiety: and all would be well if Olivier
passed his examination at the end of the year.--But if he did not pass?

No sooner had they settled down to the happiness of being together again than they were once
more obsessed by the prospect of the examination. They tried hard not to think about it, but
in vain, they were always coming back to it. The fixed idea haunted them, even when they were
seeking distraction from their thoughts: at concerts it would suddenly leap out at them in
the middle of the performance: at night when they woke up it would lie there like a yawning
gulf before them. In addition to his eagerness to please his sister and repay her for the sacrifice
of her youth that she had made for his sake, Olivier lived in terror of his military service
which he could not escape if he were rejected:--(at that time admission to the great schools
was still admitted as an exemption from service).--He had an invincible disgust for the physical
and moral promiscuity, the kind of intellectual degradation, which, rightly or wrongly, he
saw in barrack-life. Every pure and aristocratic quality in him revolted from such compulsion,
and it seemed to him that death would be preferable. In these days it is permitted to make
light of such feelings, and even to decry them in the name of a social morality which, for
the moment, has become a religion: but they are blind who deny it: there is no more profound
suffering than that of the violation of moral solitude by the coarse liberal Communism of the
present day.

The examinations began. Olivier was almost incapable of going in: he was unwell, and he was
so fearful of the torment he would have to undergo, whether he passed or not, that he almost
longed to be taken seriously ill. He did quite well in the written examination. But he had
a cruel time waiting to hear the results. Following the immemorial custom of the country of
Revolutions, which is the worst country in the world for red-tape and routine, the examinations
were held in July during the hottest days of the year, as though it were deliberately intended
to finish off the luckless candidates, who were already staggering under the weight of cramming
a monstrous list of subjects, of which even the examiners did not know a tenth part. The written
examinations were held on the day after the holiday of the 14th July, when the whole city was
upside down, and making merry, to the undoing of the young men who were by no means inclined
to be merry, and asked for nothing but silence. In the square outside the house booths were
set up, rifles cracked at the miniature ranges, merry-go-rounds creaked and grunted, and hideous
steam organs roared from morning till night. The idiotic noise went on for a week. Then a President
of the Republic, by way of maintaining his popularity, granted the rowdy merry-makers another
three days' holiday. It cost him nothing: he did not hear the row. But Olivier and Antoinette
were distracted and appalled by the noise, and had to keep their windows shut, so that their
rooms were stifling, and stop their ears, trying vainly to escape the shrill, insistent, idiotic
tunes which were ground out from morning till night and stabbed through their brains like daggers,
so that they were reduced to a pitiful condition.

The viva voce examination began immediately after the publication of the first results. Olivier
begged Antoinette not to go. She waited at the door,--much more anxious than he. Of course
he never told her what he thought of his performance. He tormented her by telling her what
he had said and what he had not said.

At last the final results were published. The names of the candidates were posted in the courtyard
of the Sorbonne. Antoinette would not let Olivier go alone. As they left the house, they thought,
though they did not say it, that when they came back they would know, and perhaps they would
regret their present fears, when at least there was still hope. When they came in sight of
the Sorbonne they felt their legs give way under them. Brave little Antoinette said to her brother:

"Please not so fast...."

Olivier looked at his sister, and she forced a smile. He said:

"Shall we sit down for a moment on the seat here?"

He would gladly have gone no further. But, after a moment, she pressed his hand and said:

"It's nothing, dear. Let us go on."

They could not find the list at first. They read several others in which the name of Jeannin
did not appear. When at last they saw it, they did not take it in at first: they read it several
times and could not believe it. Then when they were quite sure that it was true that Jeannin
was Olivier, that Jeannin had passed, they could say nothing: they hurried home: she took his
arm, and held his wrist, and leaned her weight on him: they almost ran, and saw nothing of
what was going on about them: as they crossed the boulevard they were almost run over. They
said over and over again:

"Dear ... Darling ... Dear ... Dear...."

They tore upstairs to their rooms and then they flung their arms round each other. Antoinette
took her brother's hand and led him to the photographs of their father and mother, which hung
on the wall near her bed, in a corner of her room, which was a sort of sanctuary to her: they
knelt down before them: and with tears in their eyes they prayed.

Antoinette ordered a jolly little dinner: but they could not eat a morsel: they were not hungry.
They spent the evening, Olivier kneeling by his sister's side while she petted him like a child.
They hardly spoke at all. They could not even be happy, for they were too worn out. They went
to bed before nine o'clock and slept the sleep of the just.

Next day Antoinette had a frightful headache, but there was such a load taken from her heart!
Olivier felt, for the first time in his life, that he could breathe freely. He was saved, she
was saved, she had accomplished her task: and he had shown himself to be not unworthy of his
sister's expectations!... For the first time for years and years they allowed themselves a
little laziness. They stayed in bed till twelve talking through the wall, with the door between
their rooms open: when they looked in the mirror they saw their faces happy and tired-looking:
they smiled, and threw kisses to each other, and dozed off again, and watched each other's
sleep, and lay weary and worn with hardly the strength to do more than mutter tender little
scraps of words.

       *       *       *       *       *

Antoinette had always put by a little money, sou by sou, so as to have some small reserve in
case of illness. She did not tell her brother the surprise she had in store for him. The day
after his success she told him that they were going to spend a month in Switzerland to make
up for all their years of trouble and hardship. Now that Olivier was assured of three years
at the Ecole Normale at the expense of the State, and then, when he left the Ecole, of finding
a post, they could be extravagant and spend all their savings. Olivier shouted for joy when
she told him. Antoinette was even more happy than he,--happy in her brother's happiness,--happy
to think that she was going to see the country once more: she had so longed for it.

It took them some time to get ready for the journey, but the work of preparation was an unending
joy. It was well on in August when they set out. They were not used to traveling. Olivier did
not sleep the night before. And he did not sleep in the train. The whole day they had been
fearful of missing the train. They were in a feverish hurry, they had been jostled about at
the station, and finally huddled into a second-class carriage, where they could not even lean
back to go to sleep:--(that is one of the privileges of which the eminently democratic French
companies deprive poor travelers, so that rich travelers may have the pleasure of thinking
that they have a monopoly of it).--Olivier did not sleep a wink: he was not sure that they
were in the right train, and he looked out for the name of every station. Antoinette slept
lightly and woke up very frequently: the jolting of the train made her head bob. Olivier watched
her by the light of the funereal lamp, which shone at the top of the moving sarcophagus: and
he was suddenly struck by the change in her face. Her eyes were hollow: her childish lips were
half-open from sheer weariness: her skin was sallow, and there were little wrinkles on her
cheeks, the marks of the sad years of sorrow and disillusion. She looked old and ill.--And,
indeed, she was so tired! If she had dared she would have postponed their journey. But she
did not like to spoil her brother's pleasure: she tried to persuade herself that she was only
tired, and that the country would make her well again. She was fearful lest she should fall
ill on the way.--She felt that he was looking at her: and she suddenly flung off the drowsiness
that was creeping over her, and opened her eyes,--eyes still young, still clear and limpid,
across which, from time to time, there passed an involuntary look of pain, like shadows on
a little lake. He asked her in a whisper, anxiously and tenderly, how she was: she pressed
his hand and assured him that she was well. A word of love revived her.

Then, when the rosy dawn tinged the pale country between Dole and Pontarlier, the sight of
the waking fields, and the gay sun rising from the earth,--the sun, who, like themselves, had
escaped from the prison of the streets, and the grimy houses, and the thick smoke of Paris:--the
waving fields wrapped in the light mist of their milk-white breath: the little things they
passed: a little village belfry, a glimpse of a winding stream, a blue line of hills hovering
on the far horizon: the tinkling, moving sound of the angelus borne from afar on the wind,
when the train stopped in the midst of the sleeping country: the solemn shapes of a herd of
cows browsing on a slope above the railway,--all absorbed Antoinette and her brother, to whom
it all seemed new. They were like parched trees, drinking in ecstasy the rain from heaven.

Then, in the early morning, they reached the Swiss Customs, where they had to get out. A little
station in a bare country-side. They were almost worn out by their sleepless night, and the
cold, dewy freshness of the dawn made them shiver: but it was calm, and the sky was clear,
and the fragrant air of the fields was about them, upon their lips, on their tongues, down
their throats, flowing down into their lungs like a cooling stream: and they stood by a table,
out in the open air, and drank comforting hot coffee with creamy milk, heavenly sweet, and
tasting of the grass and the flowers of the fields.

They climbed up into the Swiss carriage, the novel arrangement of which gave them a childish
pleasure. But Antoinette was so tired! She could not understand why she should feel so ill.
Why was everything about her so beautiful, so absorbing, when she could take so little pleasure
in it? Was it not all just what she had been dreaming for years: a journey with her brother,
with all anxiety for the future left behind, dear mother Nature?... What was the matter with
her? She was annoyed with herself, and forced herself to admire and share her brother's naive
delight.

They stopped at Thun. They were to go up into the mountains next day. But that night in the
hotel, Antoinette was stricken with a fever, and violent illness, and pains in her head. Olivier
was at his wits' ends, and spent a night of frightful anxiety. He had to send for a doctor
in the morning--(an unforeseen expense which was no light tax on their slender purse).--The
doctor could find nothing immediately serious, but said that she was run down, and that her
constitution was undermined. There could be no question of their going on. The doctor forbade
Antoinette to get up all day; and he thought they would perhaps have to stay at Thun for some
time. They were very downcast--though very glad to have got off so cheaply after all their
fears. But it was hard to have come so far to be shut up in a nasty hotel-room into which the
sunlight poured so that it was like a hothouse. Antoinette insisted on her brother going out.
He went a few yards from the hotel, saw the beautiful green Aar, and, hovering in the distance
against the sky, a white peak: he bubbled over with joy: but he could not keep it to himself.
He rushed back to his sister's room, and told her excitedly what he had just seen: and when
she expressed her surprise at his coming back so soon and made him promise to go out again,
he said, as once before he had said when he came back from the Chatelet concert:

"No, no. It is too beautiful: it hurts me to see it without you."

That feeling was not new to them: they knew that they had to be together to enjoy anything
wholly. But they always loved to hear it said. His tender words did Antoinette more good than
any medicine. She smiled now, languidly, happily.--And after a good night, although it was
not very wise to go on so soon, she decided that they would get away very early, without telling
the doctor, who would only want to keep them back. The pure air and the joy of seeing so much
beauty made her stronger, so that she did not have to pay for her rashness, and without any
further misadventure they reached the end of their journey--a mountain village, high above
the lake, some distance away from Spiez.

There they spent three or four weeks in a little hotel. Antoinette did not have any further
attack of fever, but she never got really well. She still felt a heaviness, an intolerable
weight, in her head, and she was always unwell. Olivier often asked her about her health: he
longed to see her grow less pale: but he was intoxicated by the beauty of the country, and
instinctively avoided all melancholy thoughts: when she assured him that she was really quite
well, he tried to believe that it was true,--although he knew perfectly well that it was not
so. And she enjoyed to the full her brother's exuberance and the fine air, and the all-pervading
peace. How good it was to rest at last after those terrible years!

Olivier tried to induce her to go for walks with him: she would have been happy to join him:
but on several occasions when she had bravely set out, she had been forced to stop after twenty
minutes, to regain her breath, and rest her heart. So he went out alone,--climbing the safe
peaks, though they filled her with terror until he came home again. Or they would go for little
walks together: she would lean on his arm, and walk slowly, and they would talk, and he would
suddenly begin to chatter, and laugh, and discuss his plans, and make quips and jests. From
the road on the hillside above the valley they would watch the white clouds reflected in the
still lake, and the boats moving like insects on the surface of a pond: they would drink in
the warm air and the music of the goat-bells, borne on the gusty wind, and the smell of the
new-mown hay and the warm resin. And they would dream together of the past and the future,
and the present which seemed to them to be the most unreal and intoxicating of dreams. Sometimes
Antoinette would be infected with her brother's jolly childlike humor: they would chase each
other and roll about on the grass. And one day he saw her laughing as she used to do when they
were children, madly, carelessly, laughter clear and bubbling as a spring, such as he had not
heard for many years.

But, most often, Olivier could not resist the pleasure of going for long walks. He would be
sorry for it at once, and later he had bitterly to regret that he had not made enough of those
dear days with his sister. Even in the hotel he would often leave her alone. There was a party
of young men and girls in the hotel, from whom they had at first kept apart. Then Olivier was
attracted by them, and shyly joined their circle. He had been starved of friendship: outside
his sister he had hardly known any one but his rough schoolfellows and their girls, who repelled
him. It was very sweet to him to be among well-mannered, charming, merry boys and girls of
his own age. Although he was very shy, he was naively curious, sentimental, and affectionate,
and easily bewitched by the little burning, flickering fires that shine in a woman's eyes.
And in spite of his shyness, women liked him. His frank longing to love and be loved gave him,
unknown to himself, a youthful charm, and made him find words and gestures and affectionate
little attentions, the very awkwardness of which made them all the more attractive. He had
the gift of sympathy. Although in his isolation his intelligence had taken on an ironical tinge
which made him see the vulgarity of people and their defects which he often loathed,--yet in
their presence he saw nothing but their eyes, in which he would see the expression of a living
being, who one day would die, a being who had only one life, even as he, and, even as he, would
lose it all too soon, then of that creature he would involuntarily be fond: in that moment
nothing in the world could make him do anything to hurt: whether he liked it or not, he had
to be kind and amiable. He was weak: and, in being so, he was sure to please the "world" which
pardons every vice, and even every virtue,--except one: force, on which all the rest depend.

Antoinette did not join them. Her health, her tiredness, her apparently causeless moral collapse,
paralyzed her. Through the long years of anxiety and ceaseless toil, exhausting body and soul,
the positions of the brother and sister had been inverted: now it was she who felt far removed
from the world, far from everything and everybody, so far!... She could not break down the
wall between them: all their chatter, their noise, their laughter, their little interests,
bored her, wearied her, almost hurt her. It hurt her to be so: she would have loved to go with
the other girls, to share their interests and laugh with them ... But she could not!... Her
heart ached; she seemed to be as one dead. In the evening she would shut herself up in her
room; and often she would not even turn on the light: she would sit there in the dark, while
downstairs Olivier would be amusing himself, surrendering to the current of one of those romantic
little love affairs to which he so easily succumbed. She would only shake off her torpor when
she heard him coming upstairs, laughing and talking to the girls, hanging about saying good-night
outside their rooms, being unable to tear himself away. Then in the darkness Antoinette would
smile, and get up to turn on the light. The sound of her brother's laughter revived her.

Autumn was setting in. The sun was dying down. Nature was a-weary. Under the thick mists and
clouds of October the colors were fading fast; snow fell on the mountains: mists descended
upon the plains. The visitors went away one by one, and then several at a time. And it was
sad to see even the friends of a little while going away, but sadder still to see the passing
of the summer, the time of peace and happiness which had been an oasis in their lives. They
went for a last walk together, on a cloudy autumn day, through the forest on the mountain-side.
They did not speak: they mused sadly, as they walked along with the collars of their cloaks
turned up, clinging close together: their hands were locked. There was silence in the wet woods,
and in silence the trees wept. From the depths there came the sweet plaintive cry of a solitary
bird who felt the coming of winter. Through the mist came the clear tinkling of the goat-bells,
far away, so faint they could hardly hear it, so faint it was as though it came up from their
inmost hearts....

They returned to Paris. They were both sad. Antoinette was no better.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had to set to work to prepare Olivier's wardrobe for the Ecole. Antoinette spent the last
of her little store of money, and even sold some of her jewels. What did it matter? He would
repay her later on. And then, she would need so little when he was gone from her!... She tried
not to think of what it would be like when he was gone: she worked away at his clothes, and
put into the work all the tenderness she had for her brother, and she had a presentiment that
it would be the last thing she would do for him.

During the last days together they were never apart: they were fearful of wasting the tiniest
moment. On their last evening they sat up very late by the fireside, Antoinette occupying the
only armchair, and Olivier a stool at her feet, and she made a fuss of him like the spoiled
child he was. He was dreading--though he was curious about it, too--the new life upon which
he was to enter. Antoinette thought only that it was the end of their dear life together, and
wondered fearfully what would become of her. As though he were trying to make the thought even
more bitter for her, he was more tender than ever he had been, with the innocent instinctive
coquetry of those who always wait until they are just going to show themselves at their best
and most charming. He went to the piano and played her their favorite passages from Mozart
and Gluck--those visions of tender happiness and serene sorrow with which so much of their
past life was bound up.

When the time came for them to part, Antoinette accompanied Olivier as far as the gates of
the Ecole. Then she returned. Once more she was alone. But now it was not, as when she had
gone away to Germany, a separation which she could bring to an end at will when she could bear
it no longer How it was she who remained behind, he who went away: it was he who had gone away,
for a long, long time--perhaps for life. And yet her love for him was so maternal that at first
she thought less of herself than of him: she thought only of how different the first few days
would be for him, of the strict rules of the Ecole, and was preoccupied with those harmless
little worries which so easily assume alarming proportions in the minds of people who live
alone and are always tormenting themselves about those whom they love. Her anxiety did at least
have this advantage, that it distracted her thoughts from her own loneliness. She had already
begun to think of the half-hour when she would be able to see him next day in the visitors'
room. She arrived a quarter of an hour too soon. He was very nice to her, but he was altogether
taken up with all the new things he had seen. And during the following days, when she went
to see him, full of the most tender anxiety, the contrast between what those meetings meant
for her and what they meant for him was more and more marked. For her they were her whole life.
For Olivier--no doubt he loved Antoinette dearly: but it was too much to expect him to think
only of her, as she thought of him. Once or twice he came down late to the visitors' room.
One day, when she asked him if he were at all unhappy, he said that he was nothing of the kind.
Such little things as that stabbed Antoinette to the heart.--She was angry with herself for
being so sensitive, and accused herself of selfishness: she knew quite well that it would be
absurd, even wrong and unnatural, for him to be unable to do without her, and for her to be
unable to do without him, and to have no other object in life. Yes: she knew all that. But
what was the good of her knowing it? She could not help it if for the past ten years her whole
life had been bound up in that one idea: her brother. Now that the one interest of her life
had been torn from her, she had nothing left.

She tried bravely to keep herself occupied and to take up her music and read her beloved books
... But alas! how empty were Shakespeare and Beethoven without Olivier!

...--Yes: no doubt they were beautiful.... But Olivier was not there. What is the good of beautiful
things if the eyes of the beloved are not there to see them? What is the use of beauty, what
is the use even of joy, if they cannot be won through the heart of the beloved?

If she had been stronger she would have tried to build up her life anew, and give it another
object. But she was at the end of her tether. Now that there was nothing to force her to hold
on, at all costs, the effort of will to which she had subjected herself snapped: she collapsed.
The illness, which had been gaining grip on her for over a year, during which she had fought
it down by force of will, was now left to take its course.

She spent her evenings alone in her room, by the spent fire, a prey to her thoughts: she had
neither the courage to light the fire again, nor the strength to go to bed: she would sit there
far into the night, dozing, dreaming, shivering. She would live through her life again, and
summon up the beloved dead and her lost illusions: and she would be terribly sad at the thought
of her lost youth, without love or hope of love. A dumb, aching sorrow, obscure, unconfessed
... A child laughed in the street: its little feet pattered up to the floor below ... Its little
feet trampled on her heart ... She would be beset with doubts and evil thoughts; her soul in
its weakness would be contaminated by the soul of that city of selfish pleasure.--She would
fight down her regrets, and burn with shame at certain longings which she thought, evil and
wicked: she could not understand what it was that hurt her so, and attributed it to her evil
instincts. Poor little Ophelia, devoured by a mysterious evil, she felt with horror dark and
uneasy desires mounting from the depths of her being, from the very pit of life. She could
not work, and she had given up most of her pupils: she, who was so plucky, and had always risen
so early, now lay in bed sometimes until the afternoon: she had no more reason for getting
up than for going to bed: she ate little or nothing. Only on her brother's holidays--Thursday
afternoons and Sundays--she would make an effort to be her old self with him.

He saw nothing. He was too much taken up with his new life to notice his sister much. He was
at that period of boyhood when it was difficult for him to be communicative, and he always
seemed to be indifferent to things outside himself which would only be his concern in later
days.--People of riper years sometimes seem to be more open to impressions, and to take a simpler
delight in life and Nature, than young people between twenty and thirty. And so it is often
said that young people are not so young in heart as they were, and have lost all sense of enjoyment.
That is often a mistaken idea. It is not because they have no sense of enjoyment that they
seem less sensitive. It is because their whole being is often absorbed by passion, ambition,
desire, some fixed idea. When the body is worn and has no more to expect from life, then the
emotions become disinterested and fall into their place; and then once more the source of childish
tears is reopened.--Olivier was preoccupied with a thousand little things, the most outstanding
of which was an absurd little passion,--(he was always a victim to them),--which so obsessed
him as to make him blind and indifferent to everything else.--Antoinette did not know what
was happening to her brother: she only saw that he was drawing away from her. That was not
altogether Olivier's fault. Sometimes when he came he would be glad to see her and start talking.
He would come in. Then all of a sudden he would dry up. Her affectionate anxiety, the eagerness
with which she clung to him, and drank in his words, and overwhelmed him with little attentions,--all
her excess of tenderness and querulous devotion would deprive him utterly of any desire to
be warm and open with her. He might have seen that Antoinette was not in a normal condition.
Nothing could be farther from her usual tact and discretion. But he never gave a thought to
it. He would reply to her questions with a curt "Yes" or "No." He would grow more stiff and
surly, the more she tried to win him over: sometimes even he would hurt her by some brusque
reply. Then she would be crushed and silent. Their day together would slip by, wasted. But
hardly had he set foot outside the house on his way back to the Ecole than he would be heartily
ashamed of his treatment of her. He would torture himself all night as he lay awake thinking
of the pain he had caused her. Sometimes even, as soon as he reached the Ecole, he would write
an effusive letter to his sister.--But next morning, when he read it through, he would tear
it up. And Antoinette would know nothing at all about it. She would go on thinking that he
had ceased to love her.

       *       *       *       *       *

She had--if not one last joy--one last flutter of tenderness and youth, when her heart beat
strongly once more; one last awakening of love in her, and hope of happiness, hope of life.
It was quite ridiculous, so utterly unlike her tranquil nature! It could never have been but
for her abnormal condition, the state of fear and over-excitement which was the precursor of
illness.

She went to a concert at the Chatelet with her brother. As he had just been appointed musical
critic to a little Review, they were in better places than those they occupied in old days,
but the people among whom they sat were much more apathetic. They had stalls near the stage.
Christophe Krafft was to play. Neither of them had ever heard of the German musician. When
she saw him come on, the blood rushed to her heart. Although her tired eyes could only see
him through a mist, she had no doubt when he appeared: he was the unknown young man of her
unhappy days in Germany. She had never mentioned him to her brother: and she had hardly even
admitted his existence to her thoughts: she had been entirely absorbed by the anxieties of
her life since then. Besides, she was a reasonable little Frenchwoman, and refused to admit
the existence of an obscure feeling which she could not trace to its source, while it seemed
to lead nowhere. There was in her a whole region of the soul, of unsuspected depths, wherein
there slept many other feelings which she would have been ashamed to behold: she knew that
they were there: but she looked away from them in a sort of religious terror of that Being
within herself which lies beyond the mind's control.

When she had recovered a little, she borrowed her brothers glasses to look at Christophe: she
saw him in profile at the conductor's stand, and she recognized his expression of forceful
concentration. He was wearing a shabby old coat which fitted him very badly.--Antoinette sat
in silent agony through the vagaries of that lamentable concert when Christophe joined issue
with the unconcealed hostility of his audience, who were at the time ill-disposed towards German
artists, and actively bored by his music. And when he appeared, after a symphony which had
seemed unconscionably long, to play some piano music, he was received with cat-calls which
left no room for doubt as to their displeasure at having to put up with him again. However,
he began to play in the face of the bored resignation of his audience: but the uncomplimentary
remarks exchanged in a loud voice by two men in the gallery went on, to the great delight of
the rest of the audience. Then he broke off: and in a childish fit of temper he played Malbrouck
s'en va t'en guerre with one finger, got up from the piano, faced the audience, and said:

"That is all you are fit for."

The audience were for a moment so taken aback that they did not quite take in what the musician
meant. Then there was an outburst of angry protests. Followed a terrible uproar. They hissed
and shouted:

"Apologize! Make him apologize!"

They were all red in the face with anger, and they blew out their fury--tried to persuade themselves
that they were really enraged: as perhaps they were, but the chief thing was that they were
delighted to have a chance of making a row, and letting themselves go: they were like schoolboys
after a few hours in school.

Antoinette could not move: she was petrified: she sat still tugging at one of her gloves. Ever
since the last bars of the symphony she had had a growing presentiment of what would happen:
she felt the blind hostility of the audience, felt it growing: she read Christophe's thoughts,
and she was sure he would not go through to the end without an explosion: she sat waiting for
the explosion while agony grew in her: she stretched every nerve to try to prevent it; and
when at last it came, it was so exactly what she had foreseen that she was overwhelmed by it,
as by some fatal catastrophe against which there was nothing to be done. And as she gazed at
Christophe, who was staring insolently at the howling audience, their eyes met. Christophe's
eyes recognized her, greeted her, for the space of perhaps a second: but he was in such a state
of excitement that his mind did not recognize her (he had not thought of her for long enough).
He disappeared while the audience yelled and hissed.

She longed to cry out: to say or do something: but she was bound hand and foot, and could not
stir; it was like a nightmare. It was some comfort to her to hear her brother at her side,
and to know that, without having any idea of what was happening to her, he had shared her agony
and indignation. Olivier was a thorough musician, and he had an independence of taste which
nothing could encroach upon: when he liked a thing, he would have maintained his liking in
the face of the whole world. With the very first bars of the symphony, he had felt that he
was in the presence of something big, something the like of which he had never in his life
come across. He went on muttering to himself with heartfelt enthusiasm:

"That's fine! That's beautiful! Beautiful!" while his sister instinctively pressed close to
him, gratefully. After the symphony he applauded loudly by way of protest against the ironic
indifference of the rest of the audience. When it came to the great fiasco, he was beside himself:
he stood up, shouted that Christophe was right, abused the booers, and offered to fight them:
it was impossible to recognize the timid Olivier. His voice was drowned in the uproar: he was
told to shut up: he was called a "snotty little kid," and told to go to bed. Antoinette saw
the futility of standing up to them, and took his arm and said:

"Stop! Stop! I implore you! Stop!"

He sat down in despair, and went on muttering:

"It's shameful! Shameful! The swine!..."

She said nothing and bore her suffering in silence: he thought she was insensible to the music,
and said:

"Antoinette, don't you think it beautiful?"

She nodded. She was frozen, and could not recover herself. But when the orchestra began another
piece, she suddenly got up, and whispered to her brother in a tone of savage hatred:

"Come, come! I can't bear the sight of these people!"

They hurried out. They walked along arm-in-arm, and Olivier went on talking excitedly. Antoinette
said nothing.

       *       *       *       *       *

All that day and the days following she sat alone in her room, and a feeling crept over her
which at first she refused to face: but then it went on and took possession of her thoughts,
like the furious throbbing of the blood in her aching temples.

Some time afterwards Olivier brought her Christophe's collection of songs, which he had just
found at a publisher's. She opened it at random. On the first page on which her eyes fell she
read in front of a song this dedication in German:

"To my poor dear little victim," together with a date.

She knew the date well.--She was so upset that she could read no farther. She put the book
down and asked her brother to play, and went and shut herself up in her room. Olivier, full
of his delight in the new music, began to play without remarking his sister's emotion. Antoinette
sat in the adjoining room, striving to repress the beating of her heart. Suddenly she got up
and looked through a cupboard for a little account-book in which was written the date of her
departure from Germany, and the mysterious date. She knew it already: yes, it was the evening
of the performance at the theater to which she had been with Christophe. She lay down on her
bed and closed her eyes, blushing, with her hands folded on her breast, while she listened
to the dear music. Her heart was overflowing with gratitude ... Ah! Why did her head hurt her so?

When Olivier saw that his sister had not come back, he went into her room after he had done
playing, and found her lying there. He asked her if she were ill. She said she was rather tired,
and got up to keep him company. They talked: but she did not answer his questions at once:
her thoughts seemed to be far away: she smiled, and blushed, and said, by way of excuse, that
her headache was making her stupid. At last Olivier went away. She had asked him to leave the
book of songs. She sat up late reading them at the piano, without playing, just lightly touching
a note here and there, for fear of annoying her neighbors. But for the most part she did not
even read: she sat dreaming: she was carried away by a feeling of tenderness and gratitude
towards the man who had pitied her, and had read her mind and soul with the mysterious intuition
of true kindness. She could not fix her thoughts. She was happy and sad--sad!... Ah! How her
head ached!

She spent the night in sweet and painful dreams, a crushing melancholy. During the day she
tried to go out for a little to shake off her drowsiness. Although her head was still aching,
to give herself something to do, she went and made a few purchases at a great shop. She hardly
gave a thought to what she was doing. Her thoughts were always with Christophe, though she
did not admit it to herself. As she came out, worried and mortally sad, through the crowd of
people she saw Christophe go by on the other side of the street. He saw her, too, at the same
moment. At once,--(suddenly and without thinking), she held out her hands towards him. Christophe
stopped: this time he recognized her. He sprang forward to cross the road to Antoinette: and
Antoinette tried to go to meet him. But the insensate current of the passing throng carried
her along like a windlestraw, while the horse of an omnibus, falling on the slippery asphalt,
made a sort of dyke in front of Christophe, by which the opposing streams of carriages were
dammed, so that for a few moments there was an impassable barrier. Christophe tried to force
his way through in spite of everything: but he was trapped in the middle of the traffic, and
could not move either way. When at last he did extricate himself and managed to reach the place
where he had seen Antoinette, she was gone: she had struggled vainly against the human torrent
that carried her along: then she yielded to it--gave up the struggle. She felt that she was
dogged by some fatality which forbade the possibility of her ever meeting Christophe: against
Fate there was nothing to be done. And when she did succeed in escaping from the crowd, she
made no attempt to go back: she was suddenly ashamed: what could she dare to say to him? What
had she done? What must he have thought of her? She fled away home.

She did not regain assurance until she reached her room. Then she sat by the table in the dark,
and had not even the strength to take off her hat or her gloves. She was miserable at having
been unable to speak to him: and at the same time there glowed a new light in her heart: she
was unconscious of the darkness, and unconscious of the illness that was upon her. She went
on and on turning over and over every detail of the scene in the street: and she changed it
about and imagined what would have happened if certain things had turned out differently. She
saw herself holding out her arms to Christophe, and Christophe's expression of joy as he recognized
her, and she laughed and blushed. She blushed: and then in the darkness of her room, where
there was no one to see her, and she could hardly see herself, once more she held out her arms
to him. Her need was too strong for her: she felt that she was losing ground, and instinctively
she sought to clutch at the strong vivid life that passed so near her, and gazed so kindly
at her. Her heart was full of tenderness and anguish, and through the night she cried:

"Help me! Save me!"

All in a fever she got up and lit the lamp, and took pen and paper. She wrote to Christophe.
Her illness was full upon her, or she would never even have thought of writing to him, so proud
she was and timid. She did not know what she wrote. She was no longer mistress of herself.
She called to him, and told him that she loved him ... In the middle of her letter she stopped,
appalled. She tried to write it all over again: but her impulse was gone: her mind was a blank,
and her head was aching: she had a horrible difficulty in finding words: she was utterly worn
out. She was ashamed ... What was the good of it all? She knew perfectly well that she was
trying to trick herself, and that she would never send the letter ... Even if she had wished
to do so, how could she? She did not know Christophe's address ... Poor Christophe! And what
could he do for her? Even if he knew all and were kind to her, what could he do?... It was
too late! No, no: it was all in vain, the last dying struggle of a bird, blindly, desperately
beating its wings. She must be resigned to it....

So for a long time she sat there by the table, lost in thought, unable to move hand or foot.
It was past midnight when she struggled to her feet--bravely. Mechanically she placed the loose
sheets of her letter in one of her few books, for she had the strength neither to put them
in order nor to tear them up. Then she went to bed, shivering and shaking with fever. The key
to the riddle lay near at hand: she felt that the will of God was to be fulfilled.--And a great
peace came upon her.

On Sunday morning when Olivier came he found Antoinette in bed, delirious. A doctor was called
in. He said it was acute consumption.

Antoinette had known how serious her condition was: she had discovered the cause of the moral
turmoil in herself which had so alarmed her. She had been dreadfully ashamed, and it was some
consolation to her to think that not she herself but her illness was the cause of it. She had
managed to take a few precautions and to burn her papers and to write a letter to Madame Nathan:
she appealed to her kindness to look after her brother during the first few weeks after her
"death"--(she dared not write the word)....

The doctor could do nothing: the disease was too far gone, and Antoinette's constitution had
been wrecked by the years of hardship and unceasing toil.

Antoinette was quite calm. Since she had known that there was no hope her agony and torment
had left her. She lay turning over in her mind all the trials and tribulations through which
she had passed: she saw that her work was done and her dear Olivier saved: and she was filled
with unutterable joy. She said to herself:

"I have achieved that."

And then she turned in shame from her pride and said:

"I could have done nothing alone. God has given me His aid."

And she thanked God that He had granted her life until she had accomplished her task. There
was a catch at her heart as she thought that now she had to lay down her life: but she dared
not complain: that would have been to feel ingratitude towards God, who might have called her
away sooner. And what would have happened if she had passed away a year sooner?--She sighed,
and humbled herself in gratitude.

In spite of her weakness and oppression she did not complain,--except when she was sleeping
heavily, when every now and then she moaned like a little child. She watched things and people
with a calm smile of resignation. It was always a joy to her to see Olivier. She would move
her lips to call him, though she made no sound: she would want to hold his hand in hers: she
would bid him lay his head on the pillow near hers, and then, gazing into his eyes, she would
go on looking at him in silence. At last she would raise herself up and hold his face in her
hands and say:

"Ah! Olivier!... Olivier!..."

She took the medal that she wore round her neck, and hung it on her brother's. She commended
her beloved Olivier to the care of her confessor, her doctor, everybody. It seemed as though
she was to live henceforth in him, that, on the point of death, she was taking refuge in his
life, as upon some island in uncharted seas. Sometimes she seemed to be uplifted by a mystic
exaltation of tenderness and faith, and she forgot her illness, and sadness changed to joy
in her,--a joy divine indeed that shone upon her lips and in her eyes. Over and over again
she said:

"I am happy...."

Her senses grew dim. In her last moments of consciousness her lips moved and it seemed that
she was repeating something to herself. Olivier went to her bedside and bent down over her.
She recognized him once more and smiled feebly up at him: her lips went on moving and her eyes
were filled with tears. They could not make out what she was trying to say.... But faintly
Olivier heard her breathe the words of the dear old song they used to love so much, the song
she was always singing:

"I will come again, my sweet and bonny, I will come again."

Then she relapsed into unconsciousness. So she passed away.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unconsciously she had aroused a profound sympathy in many people whom she did not even know:
in the house in which she lived she did not even know the names of the other tenants. Olivier
received expressions of sympathy from people who were strangers to him. Antoinette was not
taken to her grave unattended as her mother had been. Her body was followed to the cemetery
by friends and schoolfellows of her brother, and members of the families whose children she
had taught, and people whom she had met without saying a word of her own life or hearing a
word from them, though they admired her secretly, knowing her devotion, and many of the poor,
and the housekeeper who had helped her, and even many of the small tradesmen of the neighborhood.
Madame Nathan had taken Olivier under her wing on the day of his sister's death, and she had
carried him off in spite of himself, and done her best to turn his thoughts away from his grief.

If it had come later in his life he could never have borne up against such a catastrophe,--but
now it was impossible for him to succumb absolutely to his despair. He had just begun a new
life; he was living in a community, and had to live the common life whatever he might be feeling.
The full busy life of the Ecole, the intellectual pressure, the examinations, the struggle
for life, all kept him from withdrawing into himself: he could not be alone. He suffered, but
it proved his salvation. A year earlier, or a few years earlier, he must have succumbed.

And yet he did as far as possible retire into isolation in the memory of his sister. It was
a great sorrow to him that he could not keep the rooms where they had lived together: but he
had no money. He hoped that the people who seemed to be interested in him would understand
his distress at not being able to keep the things that had been hers. But nobody seemed to
understand. He borrowed some money and made a little more by private tuition and took an attic
in which he stored all that he could preserve of his sister's furniture: her bed, her table,
and her armchair. He made it the sanctuary of her memory. He took refuge there whenever he
was depressed. His friends thought he was carrying on an intrigue. He would stay there for
hours dreaming of her with his face buried in his hands: unhappily he had no portrait of her
except a little photograph, taken when she was a child, of the two of them together. He would
talk to her and weep ... Where was she? Ah! if she had been at the other end of the world,
wherever she might be and however inaccessible the spot,--with what great joy and invincible
ardor he would have rushed forth in search of her, though a thousand sufferings lay in wait
for him, though he had to go barefoot, though he had to wander for hundreds of years, if only
it might be that every step would bring him nearer to her!... Yes, even though there were only
one chance in a thousand of his ever finding her ... But there was nothing ... Nowhere to go
... No way of ever finding her again ... How utterly lonely he was now!

But though it is sad indeed to lose the beloved at the beginning of life, it is even more terrible
later on when the springs of life are running dry. Olivier was young: and, in spite of his
inborn pessimism, in spite of his misfortune, he had to live his life. As often seems to happen
after the loss of those dear to us, it was as though when Antoinette passed away she had breathed
part of her soul into her brother's life. And he believed it was so. Though he had not such
faith as hers, yet he did arrive at a vague conviction that his sister was not dead, but lived
on in him, as she had promised. There is a Breton superstition that those who die young are
not dead, but stay and hover over the places where they lived until they have fulfilled the
normal span of their existence.--So Antoinette lived out her life in Olivier.

He read through the papers he had found in her room. Unhappily she had burned most of them.
Besides, she was not the sort of woman to keep notes and tallies of her inner life. She was
too modest to uncloak her inmost thoughts in morbid babbling indiscretion. She only kept a
little notebook which was almost unintelligible to anybody else--a bare record in which she
had written down without remark certain dates, and certain small events in her daily life,
which had given her joys and emotions, which she had no need to write down in detail to keep
alive. Almost all these dates were connected with some event in Olivier's life. She had kept
every letter he had ever written to her, without exception.--Alas! He had not been so careful:
he had lost almost all the letters she had written to him. What need had he of letters? He
thought he would have his sister always with him: that dear fount of tenderness seemed inexhaustible:
he thought that he would always be able to quench his thirst of lips and heart at it: he had
most prodigally squandered the love he had received, and now he was eager to gather up the
smallest drops.... What was his emotion when, as he skimmed through one of Antoinette's books,
he found these words written in pencil on a scrap of paper:

"Olivier, my dear Olivier!..."

He almost swooned. He sobbed and kissed the invisible lips that so spoke to him from the grave.--Thereafter
he took down all her books and hunted through them page by page to see if she had not left
some other words of him. He found the fragment of the letter to Christophe, and discovered
the unspoken romance which had sprung to life in her: so for the first time he happed upon
her emotional life, that he had never known in her and never tried to know: he lived through
the last passionate days, when, deserted by himself, she had held out her arms to the unknown
friend. She had never told him that she had seen Christophe before. Certain words in her letter
revealed the fact that they had met in Germany. He understood that Christophe had been kind
to Antoinette, in circumstances the details of which were unknown to him, and that Antoinette's
feeling for the musician dated from that day, though she had kept her secret to the end.

Christophe, whom he loved already for the beauty of his art, now became unutterably dear to
him. She had loved him: it seemed to Olivier that it was she whom he loved in Christophe. He
moved heaven and earth to meet him. It was not an easy matter to trace him. After his rebuff
Christophe had been lost in the wilderness of Paris: he had shunned all society and no one
gave a thought to him.--After many months it chanced that Olivier met Christophe in the street:
he was pale and sunken from the illness from which he had only just recovered. But Olivier
had not the courage to stop him. He followed him home at a distance. He wanted to write to
him, but could not screw himself up to it. What was there to say? Olivier was not alone: Antoinette
was with him: her love, her modesty had become a part of him: the thought that his sister had
loved Christophe made him as bashful in Christophe's presence as though he had been Antoinette.
And yet how he longed to talk to him of her!--But he could not. Her secret was a seal upon
his lips.

He tried to meet Christophe again. He went everywhere where he thought Christophe might be.
He was longing to shake hands with him. And when he saw him he tried to hide so that Christophe
should not see him.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last Christophe saw him at the house of some mutual friends where they both happened to
be one evening. Olivier stood far away from him and said nothing: but he watched him. And no
doubt the spirit of Antoinette was hovering near Olivier that night: for Christophe saw her
in Olivier's eyes: and it was her image, so suddenly evoked, that made him cross the room and
go towards the unknown messenger, who, like a young Hermes, brought him the melancholy greeting
of the blessed dead.

THE HOUSE

I

I have a friend!... Oh! The delight of having found a kindred soul to which to cling in the
midst of torment, a tender and sure refuge in which to breathe again while the fluttering heart
beats slower! No longer to be alone, no longer never to unarm, no longer to stay on guard with
straining, burning eyes, until from sheer fatigue he should fall into the hands of his enemies!
To have a dear companion into whose hands all his life should be delivered--the friend whose
life was delivered into his! At last to taste the sweetness of repose, to sleep while the friend
watches, watch while the friend sleeps. To know the joy of protecting a beloved creature who
should trust in him like a little child. To know the greater joy of absolute surrender to that
friend, to feel that he is in possession of all secrets, and has power over life and death.
Aging, worn out, weary of the burden of life through so many years, to find new birth and fresh
youth in the body of the friend, through his eyes to see the world renewed, through his senses
to catch the fleeting loveliness of all things by the way, through his heart to enjoy the splendor
of living.... Even to suffer in his suffering.... Ah! Even suffering is joy if it be shared!

I have a friend!... Away from me, near me, in me always. I have my friend, and I am his. My
friend loves me. I am my friend's, the friend of my friend. Of our two souls love has fashioned
one.

       *       *       *       *       *

Christophe's first thought, when he awoke the day after the Roussins' party, was for Olivier
Jeannin. At once he felt an irresistible longing to see him again. He got up and went out.
It was not yet eight o'clock. It was a heavy and rather oppressive morning. An April day before
its time: stormy clouds were hovering over Paris.

Olivier lived below the hill of Sainte-Genevieve, in a little street near the Jardin des Plantes.
The house stood in the narrowest part of the street. The staircase led out of a dark yard,
and was full of divers unpleasant smells. The stairs wound steeply up and sloped down towards
the wall, which was disfigured with scribblings in pencil. On the third floor a woman, with
gray hair hanging down, and in petticoat-bodice, gaping at the neck, opened the door when she
heard footsteps on the stairs, and slammed it to when she saw Christophe. There were several
flats on each landing, and through the ill-fitting doors Christophe could hear children romping
and squalling. The place was a swarming heap of dull base creatures, living as it were on shelves,
one above the other, in that low-storied house, built round a narrow, evil-smelling yard. Christophe
was disgusted, and wondered what lusts and covetous desires could have drawn so many creatures
to this place, far from the fields, where at least there is air enough for all, and what it
could profit them in the end to be in the city of Paris, where all their lives they were condemned
to live in such a sepulcher.

He reached Olivier's landing. A knotted piece of string was his bell-pull. Christophe tugged
at it so mightily that at the noise several doors on the staircase were half opened. Olivier
came to the door. Christophe was struck by the careful simplicity of his dress: and the neatness
of it, which at any other time would have been little to his liking, was in that place an agreeable
surprise: in such an atmosphere of foulness there was something charming and healthy about
it. And at once he felt just as he had done the night before when he gazed into Olivier's clear,
honest eyes. He held out his hand: but Olivier was overcome with shyness, and murmured:

"You.... You here!"

Christophe was engrossed in catching at the lovable quality of the man as it was revealed to
him in that fleeting moment of embarrassment, and he only smiled in answer. He moved forward
and forced Olivier backward, and entered the one room in which he both slept and worked. An
iron bedstead stood against the wall near the window; Christophe noticed the pillows heaped
up on the bolster. There were three chairs, a black-painted table, a small piano, bookshelves
and books, and that was all. The room was cramped, low, ill-lighted: and yet there was in it
a ray of the pure light that shone in the eyes of its owner. Everything was clean and tidy,
as though a woman's hands had dealt with it: and a few roses in a vase brought spring-time
into the room, the walls of which were decorated with photographs of old Florentine pictures.

"So.... You.... You have come to see me?" said Olivier warmly.

"Good Lord, I had to!" said Christophe. "You would never have come to me?"

"You think not?" replied Olivier.

Then, quickly:

"Yes, you are right. But it would not be for want of thinking of it."

"What would have stopped you?"

"Wanting to too much."

"That's a fine reason!"

"Yes. Don't laugh. I was afraid you would not want it as much as I."

"A lot that's worried me! I wanted to see you, and here I am. If it bores you, I shall know
at once."

"You will have to have good eyes."

They smiled at each other.

Olivier went on:

"I was an ass last night. I was afraid I might have offended you. My shyness is absolutely
a disease: I can't get a word out."

"I shouldn't worry about that. There are plenty of talkers in your country: one is only too
glad to meet a man who is silent occasionally, even though it be only from shyness and in spite
of himself."

Christophe laughed and chuckled over his own gibe.

"Then you have come to see me because I can be silent?"

"Yes. For your silence, the sort of silence that is yours. There are all sorts: and I like
yours, and that's all there is to say."

"But how could you sympathize with me? You hardly saw me."

"That's my affair. It doesn't take me long to make up my mind. When I see a face that I like
in the crowd, I know what to do: I go after it; I simply have to know the owner of it."

"And don't you ever make mistakes when you go after them?"

"Often."

"Perhaps you have made a mistake this time."

"We shall see."

"Ah! In that case I'm done! You terrify me. If I think you are watching me, I shall lose what
little wits I have."

With fond and eager curiosity Christophe watched the sensitive, mobile face, which blushed
and went pale by turns. Emotion showed fleeting across it like the shadows of clouds on a lake.

"What a nervous youngster it is!" he thought. "He is like a woman."

He touched his knee.

"Come, come!" he said. "Do you think I should come to you with weapons concealed about me?
I have a horror of people who practise their psychology on their friends. I only ask that we
should both be open and sincere, and frankly and without shame, and without being afraid of
committing ourselves finally to anything or of any sort of contradiction, be true to what we
feel. I ask only the right to love now, and next minute, if needs must, to be out of love.
There's loyalty and manliness in that, isn't there?"

Olivier gazed at him with serious eyes, and replied:

"No doubt. It is the more manly part, and you are strong enough. But I don't think I am."

"I'm sure you are," said Christophe; "but in a different way. And then, I've come just to help
you to be strong, if you want to be so. For what I have just said gives me leave to go on and
say, with more frankness than I should otherwise have had, that--without prejudice for to-morrow--I
love you."

Olivier blushed hotly. He was struck dumb with embarrassment, and could not speak.

Christophe glanced round the room.

"It's a poor place you live in. Haven't you another room?"

"Only a lumber-room."

"Ugh! I can't breathe. How do you manage to live here?"

"One does it somehow."

"I couldn't--never."

Christophe unbuttoned his waistcoat and took a long breath.

Olivier went and opened the window wide.

"You must be very unhappy in a town, M. Krafft. But there's no danger of my suffering from
too much vitality. I breathe so little that I can live anywhere. And yet there are nights in
summer when even I am hard put to it to get through. I'm terrified when I see them coming.
Then I stay sitting up in bed, and I'm almost stifled."

Christophe looked at the heap of pillows on the bed, and from them to Olivier's worn face:
and he could see him struggling there in the darkness.

"Leave it," he said. "Why do you stay?"

Olivier shrugged his shoulders and replied carelessly:

"It doesn't matter where I live."

Heavy footsteps padded across the floor above them. In the room below a shrill argument was
toward. And always, without ceasing, the walls were shaken by the rumbling of the buses in
the street.

"And the house!" Christophe went on. "The house reeking of filth, the hot dirtiness of it all,
the shameful poverty--how can you bring yourself to come back to it night after night? Don't
you lose heart with it all? I couldn't live in it for a moment. I'd rather sleep under an arch."

"Yes. I felt all that at first, and suffered. I was just as disgusted as you are. When I went
for walks as a boy, the mere sight of some of the crowded dirty streets made me ill. They gave
me all sorts of fantastic horrors, which I dared not speak of. I used to think: 'If there were
an earthquake now, I should be dead, and stay here for ever and ever'; and that seemed to me
the most appalling thing that could happen. I never thought that one day I should live in one
of them of my own free-will, and that in all probability I shall die there. And then it became
easier to put up with: it had to. It still revolts me: but I try not to think of it. When I
climb the stairs I close my eyes, and stop my ears, and hold my nose, and shut off all my senses
and withdraw utterly into myself. And then, over the roof there, I can see the tops of the
branches of an acacia. I sit here in this corner so that I don't see anything else: and in
the evening when the wind rustles through them I fancy that I am far away from Paris: and the
mighty roar of a forest has never seemed so sweet to me as the gentle murmuring of those few
frail leaves at certain moments."

"Yes," said Christophe. "I've no doubt that you are always dreaming; but it's all wrong to
waste your fancy in such a struggle against the sordid things of life, when you might be using
it in the creation of other lives."

"Isn't it the common lot? Don't you yourself waste energy in anger and bitter struggles?"

"That's not the same thing. It's natural to me: what I was born for. Look at my arms and hands!
Fighting is the breath of life to me. But you haven't any too much strength: that's obvious."

Olivier looked sadly down at his thin wrists, and said:

"Yes. I am weak: I always have been. But what can I do? One must live?"

"How do you make your living?"

"I teach."

"Teach what?"

"Everything--Latin, Greek, history. I coach for degrees. And I lecture on Moral Philosophy
at the Municipal School."

"Lecture on what?"

"Moral Philosophy."

"What in thunder is that? Do they teach morality in French schools?"

Olivier smiled:

"Of course."

"Is there enough in it to keep you talking for ten minutes?"

"I have to lecture for twelve hours a week."

"Do you teach them to do evil, then?"

"What do you mean?"

"There's no need for so much talk to find out what good is."

"Or to leave it undiscovered either."

"Good gracious, yes! Leave it undiscovered. There are worse ways of doing good than knowing
nothing about it. Good isn't a matter of knowledge: it's a matter of action. It's only your
neurasthenics who go haggling about morality: and the first of all moral laws is not to be
neurasthenic. Rotten pedants! They are like cripples teaching people how to walk."

"But they don't do their talking for such as you. You know: but there are so many who do not know!"

"Well, let them crawl like children until they learn how to walk by themselves. But whether
they go on two legs or on all fours, the first thing, the only thing you can ask is that they
should walk somehow."

He was prowling round and round and up and down the room, though less than four strides took
him across it. He stopped in front of the piano, opened it, turned over the pages of some music,
touched the keys, and said:

"Play me something."

Olivier started.

"I!" he said. "What an idea!"

"Madame Roussin told me you were a good musician. Come: play me something."

"With you listening? Oh!" he said, "I should die."

The sincerity and simplicity with which he spoke made Christophe laugh: Olivier, too, though
rather bashfully.

"Well," said Christophe, "is that a reason for a Frenchman?"

Olivier still drew back.

"But why? Why do you want me to?"

"I'll tell you presently. Play!"

"What?"

"Anything you like."

Olivier sat down at the piano with a sigh, and, obedient to the imperious will of the friend
who had sought him out, he began to play the beautiful Adagio in B Minor of Mozart. At first
his fingers trembled so that he could hardly make them press down the keys: but he regained
courage little by little: and, while he thought he was but repeating Mozart's utterance, he
unwittingly revealed his inmost heart. Music is an indiscreet confidant: it betrays the most
secret thoughts of its lovers to those who love it. Through the godlike scheme of the Adagio
of Mozart Christophe could perceive the invisible lines of the character, not of Mozart, but
of his new friend sitting there by the piano: the serene melancholy, the timid, tender smile
of the boy, so nervous, so pure, so full of love, so ready to blush. But he had hardly reached
the end of the air, the topmost point where the melody of sorrowful love ascends and snaps,
when a sudden irrepressible feeling of shame and modesty overcame Olivier, so that he could
not go on: his fingers would not move, and his voice failed him. His hands fell by his side,
and he said:

"I can't play any more...."

Christophe was standing behind him, and he stooped and reached over him and finished the broken
melody: then he said:

"Now I know the music of your soul."

He held his hands, and stayed for a long time gazing into his face. At last he said:

"How queer it is!... I have seen you before.... I know you so well, and I have known you so
long!..."

Olivier's lips trembled: he was on the point of speaking. But he said nothing.

Christophe went on gazing at him for a moment or two longer. Then he smiled and said no more,
and went away.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went down the stairs with his heart filled with joy. He passed two ugly children going up,
one with bread, the other with a bottle of oil. He pinched their cheeks jovially. He smiled
at the scowling porter. When he reached the street he walked along humming to himself until
he came to the Luxembourg. He lay down on a seat in the shade, and closed his eyes. The air
was still and heavy: there were only a few passers-by. Very faintly he could hear the irregular
trickling of the fountain, and every now and then the scrunching of the gravel as footsteps
passed him by. Christophe was overcome with drowsiness, and he lay basking like a lizard in
the sun: his face had been out of the shadow of the trees for some time: but he could not bring
himself to stir. His thoughts wound about and about: he made no attempt to hold and fix them:
they were all steeped in the light of happiness. The Luxembourg clock struck: he did not listen
to it: but, a moment later, he thought it must have been striking twelve. He jumped up to realize
that he had been lounging for a couple of hours, had missed an appointment with Hecht, and
wasted the whole morning. He laughed, and went home whistling. He composed a Rondo in canon
on the cry of a peddler. Even sad melodies now took on the charm of the gladness that was in
him. As he passed the laundry in his street, as usual, he glanced into the shop, and saw the
little red-haired girl, with her dull complexion flushed with the heat, and she was ironing
with her thin arms bare to the shoulder and her bodice open at the neck: and, as usual, she
ogled him brazenly: for the first time he was not irritated by her eyes meeting his. He laughed
once more. When he reached his room he was free of all the obsessions from which he had suffered.
He flung his hat, coat, and vest in different directions, and sat down to work with an all-conquering
zest. He gathered together all his scattered scraps of music, which were lying all over the
room, but his mind was not in his work: he only read the script with his eyes: and a few minutes
later he fell back into the happy somnolence that had been upon him in the Luxembourg Gardens;
his head buzzed, and he could not think. Twice or thrice he became aware of his condition,
and tried to shake it off: but in vain. He swore light-heartedly, got up, and dipped his head
in a basin of cold water. That sobered him a little. He sat down at the table again, sat in
silence, and smiled dreamily. He was wondering:

"What is the difference between that and love?"

Instinctively he had begun to think in whispers, as though he were ashamed. He shrugged his
shoulders.

"There are not two ways of loving.... Or, rather, yes, there are two ways: there is the way
of those who love with every fiber of their being, and the way of those who only give to love
a part of their superfluous energy. God keep me from such cowardice of heart!"

He stopped in his thought, from a sort of shame and dread of following it any farther. He sat
for a long time smiling at his inward dreams. His heart sang through the silence:

Du bist mein, und nun ist das Meine Meiner als jemals... ("Thou art mine, and now I am mine,
more mine than I have ever been....")

He took a sheet of paper, and with tranquil ease wrote down the song that was in his heart.

       *       *       *       *       *

They decided to take rooms together. Christophe wanted to take possession at once without worrying
about the waste of half a quarter. Olivier was more prudent, though not less ardent in their
friendship, and thought it better to wait until their respective tenancies had expired. Christophe
could not understand such parsimony. Like many people who have no money, he never worried about
losing it. He imagined that Olivier was even worse off than himself. One day when his friend's
poverty had been brought home to him he left him suddenly and returned a few hours later in
triumph with a few francs which he had squeezed in advance out of Hecht. Olivier blushed and
refused. Christophe was put out and made to throw them to an Italian who was playing in the
yard. Olivier withheld him. Christophe went away, apparently offended, but really furious with
his own clumsiness to which he attributed Olivier's refusal. A letter from his friend brought
balm to his wounds. Olivier could write what he could not express by word of mouth: he could
tell of his happiness in knowing him and how touched he was by Christophe's offer of assistance.
Christophe replied with a crazy, wild letter, rather like those which he wrote when he was
fifteen to his friend Otto: it was full of Gemueth and blundering jokes: he made puns in French
and German, and even translated them into music.

At last they went into their rooms. In the Montparnasse quarter, near the Place Denfert, on
the fifth floor of an old house they had found a flat of three rooms and a kitchen, all very
small, and looking on to a tiny garden inclosed by four high walls. From their windows they
looked out over the opposite wall, which was lower than the rest, on to one of those large
convent gardens which are still to be found in Paris, hidden and unknown. Not a soul was to
be seen in the deserted avenues. The old trees, taller and more leafy than those in the Luxembourg
Gardens, trembled in the sunlight: troops of birds sang: in the early dawn the blackbirds fluted,
and then there came the riotously rhythmic chorus of the sparrows: and in summer in the evening
the rapturous cries of the swifts cleaving the luminous air and skimming through the heavens.
And at night, under the moon, like bubbles of air mounting to the surface of a pond, there
came up the pearly notes of the toads. Almost they might have forgotten the surrounding presence
of Paris but that the old house was perpetually shaken by the heavy vehicles rumbling by, as
though the earth beneath were shivering in a fever.

One of the rooms was larger and finer than the rest, and there was a struggle between the friends
as to who should not have it. They had to toss for it: and Christophe, who had made the suggestion,
contrived not to win with a dexterity of which he found it hard to believe himself capable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then for the two of them there began a period of absolute happiness. Their happiness lay not
in any one thing, but in all things at once: their every thought, their every act, were steeped
in it, and it never left them for a moment.

During this honeymoon of their friendship, the first days of deep and silent rejoicing, known
only to him "who in all the universe can call one soul his own" ... Ja, wer auch nur eine Seele
sein nennt auf dem Erdenrund... they hardly spoke to each other, they dared hardly breathe
a word; it was enough for them to feel each other's nearness, to exchange a look, a word in
token that their thoughts, after long periods of silence, still ran in the same channel. Without
probing or inquiring, without even looking at each other, yet unceasingly they watched each
other. Unconsciously the lover takes for model the soul of the beloved: so great is his desire
to give no hurt, to be in all things as the beloved, that with mysterious and sudden intuition
he marks the imp...erceptible movements in the depths of his soul. One friend to another is
crystal-clear: they exchange entities. Their features are assimilated. Soul imitates soul,--until
that day comes when deep-moving force, the spirit of the race, bursts his bonds and rends asunder
the web of love in which he is held captive.

Christophe spoke in low tones, walked softly, tried hard to make no noise in his room, which
was next to that of the silent Olivier: he was transfigured by his friendship: he had an expression
of happiness, confidence, youth, such as he had never worn before. He adored Olivier. It would
have been easy for the boy to abuse his power if he had not been so timorous in feeling that
it was a happiness undeserved: for he thought himself much inferior to Christophe, who in his
turn was no less humble. This mutual humility, the product of their great love for each other,
was an added joy. It was a pure delight--even with the consciousness of unworthiness--for each
to feel that he filled so great a room in the heart of his friend. Each to other they were
tender and filled with gratitude.

Olivier had mixed his books with Christophe's: they made no distinction. When he spoke of them
he did not say "my book," but "our book." He kept back only a few things from the common stock:
those which had belonged to his sister or were bound up with her memory. With the quick perception
of love Christophe was not slow to notice this: but he did not know the reason of it. He had
never dared to ask Olivier about his family: he only knew that Olivier had lost his parents:
and to the somewhat proud reserve of his affection, which forbade his prying into his friend's
secrets, there was added a fear of calling to life in him the sorrows of the past. Though he
might long to do so, yet he was strangely timid and never dared to look closely at the photographs
on Olivier's desk, portraits of a lady and a gentleman stiffly posed, and a little girl of
twelve with a great spaniel at her feet.

A few months after they had taken up their quarters Olivier caught cold and had to stay in
bed. Christophe, who had become quite motherly, nursed him with fond anxiety: and the doctor,
who, on examining Olivier, had found a little inflammation at the top of the lungs, told Christophe
to smear the invalid's chest with tincture of iodine. As Christophe was gravely acquitting
himself of the task he saw a confirmation medal hanging from Olivier's neck. He was familiar
enough with Olivier to know that he was even more emancipated in matters of religion than himself.
He could not refrain from showing his surprise. Olivier colored and said:

"It is a souvenir. My poor sister Antoinette was wearing it when she died."

Christophe trembled. The name of Antoinette struck him like a flash of lightning.

"Antoinette?" he said.

"My sister," said Olivier.

Christophe repeated:

"Antoinette ... Antoinette Jeannin.... She was your sister?... But," he said, as he looked
at the photograph on the desk, "she was quite a child when you lost her?"

Olivier smiled sadly.

"It is a photograph of her as a child," he said. "Alas! I have no other.... She was twenty-five
when she left me."

"Ah!" said Christophe, who was greatly moved. "And she was in Germany, was she not?"

Olivier nodded.

Christophe took Olivier's hands in his.

"I knew her," he said.

"Yes, I know," replied Olivier.

And he flung his arms round Christophe's neck.

"Poor girl! Poor girl!" said Christophe over and over again.

They were both in tears.

Christophe remembered then that Olivier was ill. He tried to calm him, and made him keep his
arms inside the bed, and tucked the clothes up round his shoulders, and dried his eyes for
him, and then sat down by the bedside and looked long at him.

"You see," he said, "that is how I knew you. I recognized you at once, that first evening."

(It were hard to tell whether he was speaking of the present or the absent friend.)

"But," he went on a moment later, "you knew?... Why didn't you tell me?"

And through Olivier's eyes Antoinette replied:

"I could not tell you. You had to see it for yourself."

They said nothing for some time: then, in the silence of the night, Olivier, lying still in
bed, in a low voice told Christophe, who held his hand, poor Antoinette's story:--but he did
not tell him what he had no right to tell; the secret that she had kept locked,--the secret
that perhaps Christophe knew already without needing to be told.

From, that time on the soul of Antoinette was ever near them. When they were together she was
with them. They had no need to think of her: every thought they shared was shared with her
too. Her love was the meeting-place wherein their two hearts were united.

Often Olivier would conjure up the image of her: scraps of memory and brief anecdotes. In their
fleeting light they gave a glimpse of her shy, gracious gestures, her grave, young smile, the
pensive, wistful grace that was so natural to her. Christophe would listen without a word and
let the light of the unseen friend pierce to his very soul. In obedience to the law of his
own nature, which everywhere and always drank in life more greedily than any other, he would
sometimes hear in Olivier's words depths of sound which Olivier himself could not hear: and
more than Olivier he would assimilate the essence of the girl who was dead.

Instinctively he supplied her place in Olivier's life: and it was a touching sight to see the
awkward German hap unwittingly on certain of the delicate attentions and little mothering ways
of Antoinette. Sometimes he could not tell whether it was Olivier that he loved in Antoinette
or Antoinette in Olivier. Sometimes on a tender impulse, without saying anything, he would
go and visit Antoinette's grave and lay flowers on it. It was some time before Olivier had
any idea of it. He did not discover it until one day when he found fresh flowers on the grave:
but he had some difficulty in proving that it was Christophe who had laid them there. When
he tried bashfully to speak about it Christophe cut him short roughly and abruptly. He did
not want Olivier to know: and he stuck to it until one day when they met in the cemetery at Ivry.

Olivier, on his part, used to write to Christophe's mother without letting him know. He gave
Louisa news of her son, and told her how fond he was of him and how he admired him. Louisa
would send Olivier awkward, humble letters in which she thanked him profusely: she used always
to write of her son as though he were a little boy.

After a period of fond semi-silence--"a delicious time of peace and enjoyment without knowing
why,"--their tongues were loosed. They spent hours in voyages of discovery, each in the other's
soul.

They were very different, but they were both pure metal. They loved each other because they
were so different though so much the same.

Olivier was weak, delicate, incapable of fighting against difficulties. When he came up against
an obstacle he drew back, not from fear, but something from timidity, and more from disgust
with the brutal and coarse means he would have to employ to overcome it. He earned his living
by giving classes, and writing art-books, shamefully underpaid, as usual, and occasionally
articles for reviews, in which he never had a free hand and had to deal with subjects in which
he was not greatly interested:--there was no demand for the things that did interest him: he
was never asked for the sort of thing he could do best: he was a poet and was asked for criticism:
he knew something about music and he had to write about painting: he knew quite well that he
could only say mediocre things, which was just what people liked, for there he could speak
to mediocre minds in a language which they could understand. He grew disgusted with it all
and refused to write. He had no pleasure except in writing for certain obscure periodicals,
which never paid anything, and, like so many other young men, he devoted his talents to them
because they left him a free hand. Only in their pages could he publish what was worthy of
publicity.

He was gentle, well-mannered, seemingly patient, though he was excessively sensitive. A harsh
word drew blood: injustice overwhelmed him: he suffered both on his own account and for others.
Certain crimes, committed ages ago, still had the power to rend him as though he himself had
been their victim. He would go pale, and shudder, and be utterly miserable as he thought how
wretched he must have been who suffered them, and how many ages cut him off from his sympathy.
When any unjust deed was done before his eyes he would be wild with indignation and tremble
all over, and sometimes become quite ill and lose his sleep. It was because he knew his weakness
that he drew on his mask of calmness: for when he was angry he knew that he went beyond all
limits and was apt to say unpardonable things. People were more resentful with him than with
Christophe, who was always violent, because it seemed that in moments of anger Olivier, much
more than Christophe, expressed exactly what he thought: and that was true. He judged men and
women without Christophe's blind exaggeration, but lucidly and without his illusions. And that
is precisely what people do pardon the least readily. In such cases he would say nothing and
avoid discussion, knowing its futility. He had suffered from this restraint. He had suffered
more from his timidity, which sometimes led him to betray his thoughts, or deprived him of
the courage to defend his thoughts conclusively, and even to apologize for them, as had happened
in the argument with Lucien Levy-Coeur about Christophe. He had passed through many crises
of despair before he had been able to strike a compromise between himself and the rest of the
world. In his youth and budding manhood, when his nerves were not hopelessly out of order,
he lived in a perpetual alternation of periods of exaltation and periods of depression which
came and went with horrible suddenness. Just when he was feeling most at his ease and even
happy he was very certain that sorrow was lying in wait for him. And suddenly it would lay
him low without giving any warning of its coming. And it was not enough for him to be unhappy:
he had to blame himself for his unhappiness, and hold an inquisition into his every word and
deed, and his honesty, and take the side of other people against himself. His heart would throb
in his bosom, he would struggle miserably, and he would scarcely be able to breathe.--Since
the death of Antoinette, and perhaps thanks to her, thanks to the peace-giving light that issues
from the beloved dead, as the light of dawn brings refreshment to the eyes and soul of those
who are sick, Olivier had contrived, if not to break away from these difficulties, at least
to be resigned to them and to master them. Very few had any idea of his inward struggles. The
humiliating secret was locked up in his breast, all the immoderate excitement of a weak, tormented
body, surveyed serenely by a free and keen intelligence which could not master it, though it
was never touched by it,--"the central peace which endures amid the endless agitation of the
heart."

