Thus was he when a mere boy launched on a successful business career. His energy, since proved
inexhaustible, soon began to open outward. When about seventeen his attention was attracted
to the village of Newmarket as a desirable location for a drug store, and he seized an opportunity
to hire a store and stock it. His executive and financial ability were strikingly honored in
this venture. Having it in successful operation, he called the second brother, John C. Lothrop,
who about this time was admitted to the firm, and left him in charge of the new establishment,
while he started a similar store at Meredith Bridge, now called Laconia. The firm now consisted
of the three brothers.

     "These three brothers have presented a most remarkable spirit of
     family union. Remarkable in that there was none of the drifting
     away from each other into perilous friendships and moneyed
     ventures. They held firmly to each other with a trust beyond words.
     The simple word of each was as good as a bond. And as early as
     possible they entered into an agreement that all three should
     combine fortunes, and, though keeping distinct kinds of business,
     should share equal profits under the firm name of 'D. Lothrop &
     Co.' For thirty-six years, through all the stress and strain of
     business life in this rushing age, their loyalty has been preserved
     strong and pure. Without a question or a doubt, there has been an
     absolute unity of interests, although James E., President of the
     Cocheco Bank, and Mayor of the city of Dover, is in one city, John
     C. in another, and Daniel in still another, and each having the
     particular direction of the business which his enterprise and
     sagacity has made extensive and profitable."[A]

[Footnote A: Rev. Dr. Quint.]

In 1850 occurred a point of fresh and important departure. The stock of books held by Elijah
Wadleigh, who had conducted a large and flourishing book store in Dover, N.H., was purchased.
Mr. Lothrop enlarged the business, built up a good jobbing trade, and also quietly experimented
in publishing. The bookstore under his management also became something more than a commercial
success: it grew to be the centre for the bright and educated people of the town, a favorite
meeting place of men and women alive to the questions of the day.

Now, arrived at the vigor of young manhood, Mr. Lothrop's aims and high reaches began their
more open unfoldment. He rapidly extended the business into new and wide fields. He established
branch stores at Berwick, Portsmouth, Amesbury, and other places. In each of these establishments
books were prominently handled. While thus immediately busy, Mr. Lothrop began his "studies"
for his ultimate work. He did not enter the publishing field without long surveys of investigation,
comparison and reflection. In need of that kind of vacation we call "change of work and scene,"
Mr. Lothrop planned a western trip. The bookstores in the various large cities on the route
were sedulously visited, and the tastes and the demands of the book trade were carefully studied
from many standpoints.

The vast possibilities of the Great West caught his attention and he hastened to grasp his
opportunities. At St. Peter, in Minnesota, he was welcomed and resolved to locate. They needed
such men as Mr. Lothrop to help build the new town into a city. The opening of the St. Peter
store was characteristic of its young proprietor.

The extreme cold of October and November, 1856, prevented, by the early freezing of the Upper
Mississippi, the arrival of his goods. Having contracted with the St. Peter company to erect
a building, and open his store on the first day of December, Mr. Lothrop, thinking that the
goods might have come as far as some landing place below St. Paul, went down several hundred
miles along the shore visiting the different landing places. Failing to find them he bought
the entire closing-out stock of a drug store at St. Paul, and other goods necessary to a complete
fitting of his store, had them loaded, and with several large teams started for St. Peter.
The same day a blinding snow storm set in, making it extremely difficult to find the right
road, or indeed any road at all, so that five days were spent in making a journey that in good
weather could have been accomplished in two. When within a mile of St. Peter the Minnesota
river was to be crossed, and it was feared the ice would not bear the heavy teams; all was
unloaded and moved on small sledges across the river, and the drug store was opened on the
day agreed upon. The papers of that section made special mention of this achievement, saying
that it deserved honorable record, and that with such business enterprise the prosperity of
Minnesota Valley was assured.

He afterwards opened a banking house in St. Peter, of which his uncle, Dr. Jeremiah Horne,
was cashier; and in the book and drug store he placed one of his clerks from the East, Mr.
B.F. Paul, who is now one of the wealthiest men of the Minnesota Valley. He also established
two other stores in the same section of country.

Various elements of good generalship came into play during Mr. Lothrop's occupancy of this
new field, not only in directing his extensive business combinations in prosperous times, but
in guiding all his interests through the financial panic of 1857 and 1858. By the failure of
other houses and the change of capital from St. Peter to St. Paul, Mr. Lothrop was a heavy
loser, but by incessant labor and foresight he squarely met each complication, promptly paid
each liability in full. But now he broke in health. The strain upon him had been intense, and
when all was well the tension relaxed, and making his accustomed visit East to attend to his
business interests in New England, without allowing himself the required rest, the change of
climate, together with heavy colds taken on the journey, resulted in congestion of the lungs,
and prostration. Dr. Bowditch, after examination, said that the young merchant had been doing
the work of twenty years in ten. Under his treatment Mr. Lothrop so far recovered that he was
able to take a trip to Florida, where the needed rest restored his health.

For the next five years our future publisher directed the lucrative business enterprises which
he had inaugurated, from the quiet book store in Dover, N. H., while he carefully matured his
plans for his life's campaign--the publication, in many lines, of wholesome books for the people.
Soon after the close of the Civil war the time arrived for the accomplishment of his designs,
and he began by closing up advantageously his various enterprises in order to concentrate his
forces. His was no ordinary equipment. Together with well-laid plans and inspirations, for
some of which the time is not yet due, and a rich birthright of sagacity, insight and leadership,
he possessed also a practical experience of American book markets and the tastes of the people,
trained financial ability, practiced judgment, literary taste, and literary conscience; and
last, but not least, he had traversed and mapped out the special field he proposed to occupy,--a
field from which he has never been diverted.

     "The foundations were solid. On these points Mr. Lothrop has had
     but one mind from the first: 'Never to publish a work purely
     sensational, no matter what chances of money it has in it;' 'to
     publish books that will make true, steadfast growth in right
     living.' Not alone right thinking, but right living. These were his
     two determinations, rigidly adhered to, notwithstanding constant
     advice, appeals, and temptations. His thoughts had naturally turned
     to the young people, knowing from his own self-made fortunes, how
     young men and women need help, encouragement and stimulus. He had
     determined to throw all his time, strength and money into making
     good books for the young people, who, with keen imaginations and
     active minds, were searching in all directions for mental food.
     'The best way to fight the evil in the world,' reasoned Mr.
     Lothrop, 'is to crowd it out with the good.' And therefore he bent
     the energies of his mind to maturing plans toward this object,--the
     putting good, helpful literature into their hands.

     His first care was to determine the channels through which he could
     address the largest audiences. The Sunday School library was one.
     In it he hoped to turn a strong current of pure, healthful
     literature for those young people who, dieting on the existing
     library books, were rendered miserable on closing their covers,
     either to find them dry or obsolete, or so sentimentally religious
     as to have nothing in their own practical lives corresponding to
     the situations of the pictured heroes and heroines.

     The family library was another channel. To make evident to the
     heads of households the paramount importance of creating a home
     library, Mr. Lothrop set himself to work with a will. In the spring
     of 1868 he invited to meet him a council of three gentlemen,
     eminent in scholarship, sound of judgment, and of large experience:
     the Reverend George T. Day, D. D., of Dover, N.H., Professor Heman
     Lincoln, D.D., of Newton Seminary, the Rev. J.E. Rankin, D.D., of
     Washington, D.C. Before them he laid his plans, matured and ready
     for their acceptance: to publish good, strong, attractive
     literature for the Sunday School, the home, the town, and school
     library, and that nothing should be published save of that
     character, asking their co-operation as readers of the several
     manuscripts to be presented for acceptance. The gentlemen, one and
     all, gave him their heartiest God-speed, but they frankly confessed
     it a most difficult undertaking, and that the step must be taken
     with the strong chance of failure. Mr. Lothrop had counted that
     chance and reaffirmed his purpose to become a publisher of just
     such literature, and imparted to them so much of his own courage
     that before they left the room, all stood engaged as salaried
     readers of the manuscripts to come in to the new publishing house
     of D. Lothrop & Co., and during all these years no manuscripts have
     been accepted without the sanction of one or more of these readers.

     The store, Nos. 38 and 40 Cornhill, Boston, was taken, and a
     complete refitting and stocking made it one of the finest
     bookstores of the city. The first book published was 'Andy
     Luttrell.' How many recall that first book! 'Andy Luttrell' was a
     great success, the press saying that 'the series of which this is
     the initiatory volume, marks a new era in Sunday School
     literature.' Large editions were called for, and it is popular
     still. In beginning any new business there are many difficulties to
     face, old established houses to compete with, and new ones to
     contest every inch of success. But tides turn, and patience and
     pluck won the day, until from being steady, sure and reliable, Mr.
     Lothrop's publishing business was increasing with such rapidity as
     to soon make it one of the solid houses of Boston. Mr. Lothrop had
     a remarkable instinct as regarded the discovering of new talent,
     and many now famous writers owe their popularity with the public to
     his kindness and courage in standing by them. He had great
     enthusiasm and success in introducing this new element, encouraging
     young writers, and creating a fresh atmosphere very stimulating and
     enjoyable to their audience. To all who applied for work or brought
     manuscript for examination, he had a hopeful word, and in rapid,
     clear expression smoothed the difficulty out of their path if
     possible, or pointed to future success as the result of patient
     toil. He always brought out the best that was in a person, having
     the rare quality of the union of perfect honesty with kind
     consideration. This new blood in the old veins of literary life,
     soon wrought a marvelous change in this class of literature. Mr.
     Lothrop had been wise enough to see that such would be the case,
     and he kept constantly on the lookout for all means that might
     foster ambition and bring to the surface latent talent. For this
     purpose he offered prizes of $1,000 and $500 for the best
     manuscripts on certain subjects. Such a thing had scarcely been
     heard of before and manuscripts flowed in, showing this to have
     been a happy thought. It is interesting to look back and find many
     of those young authors to be identical with names that are now
     famous in art and literature, then presenting with much fear and
     trembling, their first efforts.

     Mr. Lothrop considered no time, money, or strength ill-spent by
     which he could secure the wisest choice of manuscripts. As an
     evidence of his success, we name a few out of his large list: 'Miss
     Yonge's Histories;' 'Spare Minute Series,' most carefully edited
     from Gladstone, George MacDonald, Dean Stanley, Thomas Hughes,
     Charles Kingsley; 'Stories of American History;'' Lothrop's Library
     of Entertaining History,' edited by Arthur Gilman, containing
     Professor Harrison's 'Spain,' Mrs. Clement's 'Egypt,'
     'Switzerland,' 'India,' etc.; 'Library of famous Americans, 1st and
     2d series; George MacDonald's novels--Mr. Lothrop, while on a visit
     to Europe, having secured the latest novels by this author in
     manuscript, thus bringing them out in advance of any other
     publisher in this country or abroad, now issues his entire works in
     uniform style: 'Miss Yonge's Historical Stories;' 'Illustrated
     Wonders;' The Pansy Books,' of world-wide circulation;' 'Natural
     History Stories;' 'Poet's Homes Series;' S.G.W. Benjamin's
     'American Artists;' 'The Reading Union Library,' 'Business Boy's
     Library,' library edition of 'The Odyssey,' done in prose by
     Butcher and Lang; 'Jowett's Thucydides;' 'Rosetti's Shakspeare,' on
     which nothing has been spared to make it the most complete for
     students and family use, and many others.

     Mr. Lothrop is constantly broadening his field in many directions,
     gathering the rich thought of many men of letters, science and
     theology among his publications. Such writers as Professor James H.
     Harrison, Arthur Gilman, and Rev. E.E. Hale are allies of the
     house, constantly working with it to the development of pure
     literature; the list of the authors and contributors being so long
     as to include representatives of all the finest thinkers of the
     day. Elegant art gift books of poem, classic and romance, have been
     added with wise discrimination, until the list embraces sixteen
     hundred books, out of which last year were printed and sold
     1,500,000 volumes.

     The great fire of 1872 brought loss to Mr. Lothrop among the many
     who suffered. Much of the hard-won earnings of years of toil was
     swept away in that terrible night. About two weeks later, a large
     quantity of paper which had been destroyed during the great fire
     had been replaced, and the printing of the same was in process at
     the printing house of Rand, Avery & Co., when a fire broke out
     there, destroying this second lot of paper, intended for the first
     edition of sixteen volumes of the celebrated $1,000 prize books. A
     third lot of paper was purchased for these books and sent to the
     Riverside Press without delay. The books were at last printed, as
     many thousand readers can testify, an enterprise that called out
     from the Boston papers much commendation, adding, in one instance:
     'Mr. Lothrop seems warmed up to his work.'

     When the time was ripe, another form of Mr. Lothrop's plans for the
     creation of a great popular literature was inaugurated. We refer to
     the projection of his now famous 'Wide Awake,' a magazine into
     which he has thrown a large amount of money. Thrown it, expecting
     to wait for results. And they have begun to come. 'Wide Awake' now
     stands abreast with the finest periodicals in our country, or
     abroad. In speaking of 'Wide Awake' the Boston Herald says: 'No
     such marvel of excellence could be reached unless there were
     something beyond the strict calculations of money-making to push
     those engaged upon it to such magnificent results.' Nothing that
     money can do is spared for its improvement. Withal, it is the most
     carefully edited of all magazines; Mr. Lothrop's strict
     determination to that effect, having placed wise hands at the helm
     to co-operate with him. Our best people have found this out. The
     finest writers in this country and in Europe are giving of their
     best thought to filling its pages, the most celebrated artists are
     glad to work for it. Scientific men, professors, clergymen, and all
     heads of households give in their testimony of its merits as a
     family magazine, while the young folks are delighted with it. The
     fortune of 'Wide Awake' is sure. Next Mr. Lothrop proceeded to
     supply the babies with their own especial magazine. Hence came
     bright, winsome, sparkling 'Babyland.' The mothers caught at the
     idea. 'Babyland' jumped into success in an incredibly short space
     of time. The editors of 'Wide Awake,' Mr. and Mrs. Pratt, edit this
     also, which ensures it as safe, wholesome and sweet to put into
     baby's hands. The intervening spaces between 'Babyland' and 'Wide
     Awake' Mr. Lothrop soon filled with 'Our Little Men and Women,' and
     'The Pansy.' Urgent solicitations from parents and teachers who
     need a magazine for those little folks, either at home or at
     school, who were beginning to read and spell, brought out the
     first, and Mrs. G.R. Alden (Pansy) taking charge of a weekly
     pictorial paper of that name, was the reason for the beginning and
     growth of the second. The 'Boston Book Bulletin,' a quarterly, is a
     medium for acquaintance with the best literature, its prices, and
     all news current pertaining to it.

     'The Chatauqua Young Folk's Journal' is the latest addition to the
     sparkling list. This periodical was a natural growth of the modern
     liking for clubs, circles, societies, reading unions, home studies,
     and reading courses. It is the official voice of the Chatauqua
     Young Folks Reading Union, and furnishes each year a valuable and
     vivacious course of readings on topics of interest to youth. It is
     used largely in schools. Its contributors are among our leading
     clergymen, lawyers, university professors, critics, historians and
     scientists, but all its literature is of a popular character,
     suited to the family circle rather than the study. Mr. Lothrop now
     has the remarkable success of seeing six flourishing periodicals
     going forth from his house.

     In 1875, Mr. Lothrop, finding his Cornhill quarters inaquate [sic],
     leased the elegant building corner Franklin and Hawley streets,
     belonging to Harvard College, for a term of years. The building is
     120 feet long by 40 broad, making the salesroom, which is on the
     first floor, one of the most elegant in the country. On the second
     floor are Mr. Lothrop's offices, also the editorial offices of
     'Wide Awake,' etc. On the third floor are the composing rooms and
     mailing rooms of the different periodicals, while the bindery fills
     the fourth floor.

     This building also was found small; it could accommodate only
     one-fourth of the work done, and accordingly a warehouse on
     Purchase street was leased for storing and manufacturing purposes.

     In 1879 Mr. Lothrop called to his assistance a younger brother, Mr.
     M.H. Lothrop, who had already made a brilliant business record in
     Dover, N.H., to whom he gives an interest in the business. All who
     care for the circulation of the best literature will be glad to
     know that everything indicates the work to be steadily increasing
     toward complete development of Mr. Lothrop's life-long purpose."[A]

[Footnote A: The Paper World.]

This man of large purposes and large measures has, of course, his sturdy friends, his foes
as sturdy. He has, without doubt, an iron will. He is, without doubt, a good fighter--a wise
counselor. Approached by fraud he presents a front of granite; he cuts through intrigue with
sudden, forceful blows. It is true that the sharp bargainer, the overreaching buyer he worsts
and puts to confusion and loss without mercy. But, no less, candor and honor meet with frankness
and generous dealing. He is as loyal to a friend as to a purpose. His interest in one befriended
and taken into trust is for life. It has been more than once said of this immovable business
man that he has the simple heart of a boy.

Mr. Lothrop's summer home is in Concord, Mass. His house, known to literary pilgrims of both
continents as "The Wayside," is a unique, many gabled old mansion, situated near the road at
the base of a pine-covered hill, facing broad, level fields, and commanding a view of charming
rural scenery. Its dozen green acres are laid out in rustic paths; but with the exception of
the removal of unsightly underbrush, the landscape is left in a wild and picturesque state.
Immediately in the rear of the house, however, A. Bronson Alcott, a former occupant, planned
a series of terraces, and thereon is a system of trees. The house was commenced in the seventeenth
century and has been added to at different periods, and withal is quaint enough to satisfy
the most exacting antiquarian. At the back rise the more modern portions, and the tower, wherein
was woven the most delightful of American romances, and about which cluster tender memories
of the immortal Hawthorne. The boughs of the whispering pines almost touch the lofty windows.

The interior of the dwelling is seemly. It corresponds with the various eras of its construction.
The ancient low-posted rooms with their large open fire-places, in which the genial hickory
crackles and glows as in the olden time, have furnishings and appointments in harmony. The
more modern apartments are charming, the whole combination making a most delightful country house.

Mr. Lothrop's enjoyment of art and his critical appreciation is illustrated here as throughout
his publications, his house being adorned with many exquisite and valuable original paintings
from the studios of modern artists; and there is, too, a certain literary fitness that his
home should be in this most classic spot, and that the mistress of this home should be a lady
of distinguished rank in literature, and that the fair baby daughter of the house should wear
for her own the name her mother has made beloved in thousands of American and English households.

       *       *       *       *       *

New England Conservatory of Music.

By MRS. M.J. DAVIS.

One of the most important questions now occupying the minds of the world's deepest and best
thinkers, is the intellectual, physical, moral, and political position of woman.

Men are beginning to realize a fact that has been evident enough for ages: that the current
of civilization can never rise higher than the springs of motherhood. Given the ignorant, debased
mothers of the Turkish harem, and the inevitable result is a nation destitute of truth, honor
or political position. All the power of the Roman legions, all the wealth of the imperial empire,
could not save the throne of the Cæsars when the Roman matron was shorn of her honor, and womanhood
became only the slave or the toy of its citizens. Men have been slow to grasp the fact that
women are a "true constituent of the bone and sinew of society," and as such should be trained
to bear the part of "bone and sinew." It has been finely said, "that as times have altered
and conditions varied, the respect has varied in which woman has been held. At one time condemned
to the field and counted with the cattle, at another time condemned to the drawing-room and
inventoried with marbles, oils and water-colors; but only in instances comparatively rare,
acknowledged and recognized in the fullness of her moral and intellectual possibilities, and
in the beauteous completeness of her personal dignity, prowess and obligation."

Various and widely divergent as opinions are in regard to woman's place in the political sphere,
there is fast coming to be unanimity of thought in regard to her intellectual development.
Even in Turkey, fathers are beginning to see that their daughters are better, not worse, for
being able to read and, write, and civilization is about ready to concede that the intellectual,
physical and moral possibilities of woman are to be the only limits to her attainment. Vast
strides in the direction of the higher and broader education of women have been made in the
quarter of a century since John Vassar founded on the banks of the Hudson the noble college
for women that bears his name; and others have been found who have lent willing hands to making
broad the highway that leads to an ideal womanhood. Wellesley and Smith, as well as Vassar
find their limits all too small for the throngs of eager girlhood that are pressing toward
them. The Boston University, honored in being first to open professional courses to women,
Michigan University, the New England Conservatory, the North Western University of Illinois,
the Wesleyan Universities, both of Connecticut and Ohio, with others of the colleges of the
country, have opened their doors and welcomed women to an equal share with men, in their advantages.
And in the shadow of Oxford, on the Thames, and of Harvard, on the Charles, womanly minds are
growing, womanly lives are shaping, and womanly patience is waiting until every barrier shall
be removed, and all the green fields of learning shall be so free that whosoever will may enter.

Among the foremost of the great educational institutions of the day, the New England Conservatory
of Music takes rank, and its remarkable development and wonderful growth tends to prove that
the youth of the land desire the highest advantages that can be offered them. More than thirty
years ago the germ of the idea that is now embodied in this great institution, found lodgment
in the brain of the man who has devoted his life to its development. Believing that music had
a positive influence upon the elevation of the world hardly dreamed of as yet even by its most
devoted students, Eben Tourjee returned to America from years of musical study in the great
Conservatories of Europe. Knowing from personal observation the difficulties that lie in the
way of American students, especially of young and inexperienced girls who seek to obtain a
musical education abroad, battling as they must, not only with foreign customs and a foreign
language, but exposed to dangers, temptations and disappointments, he determined to found in
America a music school that should be unsurpassed in the world. Accepting the judgment of the
great masters, Mendelsshon, David, and Joachim, that the conservatory system was the best possible
system of musical instruction, doing for music what a college of liberal arts does for education
in general, Dr. Tourjee in 1853, with what seems to have been large and earnest faith, and
most entire devotion, took the first public steps towards the accomplishment of his purpose.
During the long years his plan developed step by step. In 1870 the institution was chartered
under its present name in Boston. In 1881 its founder deeded to it his entire personal property,
and by a deed of trust gave the institution into the hands of a Board of Trustees to be perpetuated
forever as a Christian Music School.

In the carrying out of his plan to establish and equip an institution that should give the
highest musical culture, Dr. Tourjee has been compelled, in order that musicians educated here
should not be narrow, one-sided specialists only, but that they should be cultured men and
women, to add department after department, until to-day under the same roof and management
there are well equipped schools of Music, Art, Elocution, Literature, Languages, Tuning, Physical
Culture, and a home with the safeguards of a Christian family life for young women students.

When, in 1882, the institution moved from Music Hall to its present quarters in Franklin Square,
in what was the St. James Hotel, it became possessed of the largest and best equipped conservatory
buildings in the world. It has upon its staff of seventy-five teachers, masters from the best
schools of Europe. During the school year ending June 29, 1884, students coming from forty-one
states and territories of the Union, from the British Provinces, from England and from the
Sandwich Islands, have received instruction there. The growth of this institution, due in such
large measure to the courage and faith of one man, has been remarkable, and it stands to-day
self-supporting, without one dollar of endowment, carrying on alone its noble work, an institution
of which Boston, Massachusetts and America may well be proud. From the first its invitation
has been without limitation. It began with a firm belief that "what it is in the nature of
a man or woman to become, is a Providential indication of what God wants it to become, by improvement
and development," and it offered to men and women alike the same advantages, the same labor,
and the same honor. It is working out for itself the problem of co-education, and it has never
had occasion to take one backward step in the part it has chosen. Money by the millions has
been poured out upon the schools and colleges of the land, and not one dollar too much has
been given, for the money that educates is the money that saves the nation.

Among those who have been made stewards of great wealth some liberal benefactor should come
forward in behalf of this great school, that, by eighteen years of faithful living, has proved
its right to live. Its founder says of it: "The institution has not yet compassed my thought
of it." Certainly it has not reached its possibilities of doing good. It needs a hall in which
its concerts and lectures can be given, and in which the great organ of Music Hall, may be
placed. It needs that its chapel, library, studios, gymnasium and recitation rooms should be
greatly enlarged to meet the actual demands now made upon them. It needs what other institutions
have needed and received, a liberal endowment, to enable it, with them, to meet and solve the
great question of the day, the education of the people.

       *       *       *       *       *

SKETCH OF SAUGUS.

By E.P. ROBINSON.

Saugus lies about eight miles northeast of Boston. It was incorporated as an independent town
February 17, 1815, and was formerly a part of Lynn, which once bore the name of Saugus, being
an Indian name, and signifies great or extended. It has a taxable area of 5,880 acres, and
its present population may be estimated at about 2,800, living in 535 houses. The former boundary
between Lynn and Suffolk County ran through the centre of the "Boardman House," in what is
now Saugus, and standing near the line between Melrose and Saugus, and is one of the oldest
houses in the town. It has forty miles of accepted streets and roads, which are proverbial
as being kept in the very best condition. Its public buildings are a Town Hall, a wooden structure,
of Gothic architecture, with granite steps and underpining, and has a seating capacity of seven
hundred and eighty persons. It is considered to be the handsomest wooden building in Essex
County, and cost $48,000. The High School is accommodated within its walls, and beside offices
for the various boards of town officers; on the lower floor it has a room for a library. The
upper flight has an auditorium with ante-rooms at the front and rear, a balcony at the front,
seats one hundred and eighty persons, and a platform on the stage at the rear. It was built
in 1874-5. The building committee were E.P. Robinson, Gilbert Waldron, J.W. Thomas, H.B. Newhall,
Wilbur F. Newhall, Augustus B. Davis, George N. Miller, George H. Hull, Louis P. Hawkes, William
F. Hitchings, E.E. Wilson, Warren P. Copp, David Knox, A. Brad. Edmunds and Henry Sprague.
E.P. Robinson was chosen chairman and David Knox secretary. The architects were Lord & Fuller
of Boston, and the work of building was put under contract to J.H. Kibby & Son of Chelsea.

The town also owns seven commodious schoolhouses, in which are maintained thirteen schools--one
High, three Grammar, three Intermediate, three Primaries, one sub-Primary and two mixed schools,
the town appropriating the sum of six thousand dollars therefor. There are five Churches--Congregational,
Universalist, and three Methodist, besides two societies worshiping in halls (the St. John's
Episcopal Mission and the Union at North Saugus). After the schism in the old Third Parish
about 1809, the religious feud between the Trinitarians and the Unitarians became so intense
that a lawsuit was had to obtain the fund, the Universalists retaining possession. The Trinitarians
then built the old stone Church, under the direction of Squire Joseph Eames, which, as a piece
of architecture, did not reflect much credit on builder or architect. It is now used as a grocery
and post office; their present place of worship was built in 1852. The Church edifice of the
old Third was erected in 1738, and was occupied without change until 1859, when it was sold
and moved off the spot, and the site is now marked by a flag staff and band stand, known as
Central Square. The old Church was moved a short distance and converted into tenements, with
a store underneath. The Universalist society built their present Church in 1860. The town farm
consists of some 280 acres, and has a fine wood lot of 240 acres, the remainder being valuable
tillage, costing in 1823 $4,625.

The town is rich in local history and has either produced or been the residence of a number
of notable men and women.

Judge William Tudor, the father of the ice business, now so colossal in its proportions, started
the trade here, living on what is now the poor farm. The Saugus Female Seminary once held quite
a place in literary circles, Cornelius C. Felton, afterward president of Harvard College, being
its "chore boy" (the remains of his parents lie in the cemetery near by). Fanny Fern, the sister
of N.P. Willis, the wife of James Parton, the celebrated biographer, as well as two sisters
of Dr. Alexander Vinton, pursued their studies here, together with Miss Flint, who married
Honorable Daniel P. King, member of Congress for the Essex District, and Miss Dustin, who became
the wife of Eben Sutton, and who has been so devoted and interested in the library of the Peabody
Institute. Mr. Emerson, the preceptor, was for a time the pastor of the Third Parish of Lynn
(now Saugus Universalist society), where Parson Roby preached for a period of fifty-three years--more
than half a century, with a devotion and fidelity that greatly endeared him to his people.
In passing we give the items of his salary as voted him in 1747, taken from the records of
the Parish, being kindly furnished by the Clerk, Mr. W.F. Hitchings: "A suitable house and
barn, standing in a suitable place; pasturing and sufficient warter meet for two Cows and one
horse--the winter meet put in his barn; the improvement of two acres of land suitable to plant
and to be kept well fenced; sixty pounds in lawful silver money, at six shillings and eight
pence per ounce; twenty cords of wood at his Dore, and the Loose Contributions; and also the
following artikles, or so much money as will purchase them, viz: Sixty Bushels Indian Corn,
forty-one Bushels of Rye, Six hundred pounds wait of Pork and Eight Hundred and Eighty Eight
pounds wait of Beefe."

This would be considered a pretty liberal salary even now for a suburban people to pay. From
the records of his parish it would seem he always enjoyed the love and confidence of his people,
and was sincerely mourned by them at his death, which occurred January 31, 1803, at the advanced
age of eighty years, and as stated above in the fifty-third year of his ministry. Among other
good works and mementoes which he left behind him was the "Roby Elm," set out with his own
hand, and which is now more than one hundred and twenty-five years old. It is in an excellent
state of preservation, and with its perfectly conical shape at the top, attracts marked attention
from all lovers and observers of trees. Among the names of worthy citizens who have impressed
themselves upon the memory of their survivors, either as business men of rare executive ability,
or as merchants of strict integrity, or scholars and men of literary genius, lawyers, artists,
writers, poets, and men of inventive genius, we will first mention as eldest on the list "Landlord"
Jacob Newhall, who used to keep a tavern in the east part of the town and gave "entertainment
to man and beast" passing between Boston and Salem, notably so to General Washington on his
journey from Boston to Salem in 1797, and later to the Marquis De Lafayette in 1824, when making
a similar journey. We also mention Zaccheus Stocker, Jonathan Makepeace, Charles Sweetser,
Dr. Abijah Cheever, Benjamin F. Newhall and Benjamin Hitchings. These last all held town office
with great credit to themselves and their constituents.

Benjamin F. Newhall was a man of versatile parts. Beside writing rhymes he preached the Gospel,
and was at one time County Commissioner for Essex County.

