The purpose of the diagram is to show that electricity from the dynamo may go through several
branch circuits and then get back to the dynamo, and that shutting off the electricity from
one branch circuit does not shut it off from the others. And the purpose of this section is
to make it clear that electricity can flow only through a complete circuit; it must have an
unbroken path from the dynamo back to the dynamo again or from one pole of the battery back
to the other pole. If the electricity does not have a complete circuit, it will not flow.

    APPLICATION 52. A small boy disconnected the doorbell
    batteries from the wires that ran to them, and when he wanted
    to put the wires back, he could not remember how they had been
    connected. He tried fastening both wires to the carbon part of
    the battery, connecting one wire to the carbon and one to the
    zinc, and connecting both to the zinc. Then he decided that
    one wire was all that had to be connected anyway, that the
    second was simply to make it stronger. Which of the ways he
    tried, if any, would have been right?

    APPLICATION 53. Dorothy was moving. "When they took out our
    telephone," she said to her chum, Helen, "the electrician just
    cut the wires right off."

    "He must have turned off the electricity first," Helen
    answered, "or else it would all have run out of the cut ends
    of the wire and gone to waste."

    "Why, it couldn't," Dorothy said. "Electricity won't flow off
    into the air."

    "Of course it can if there is nothing to hold it in," Helen
    argued.

    Which was right?

INFERENCE EXERCISE

    Explain the following:

    321. It is very easy to get chilled when one is perspiring.

    322. Ice cream becomes liquid if you leave it in your dish too
    long.

    323. You should face forward when alighting from a street car.

    324. There are always at least two electric wires going into a
    building that is wired.

    325. Woolen sweaters keep you warm.

    326. Steel rails are not riveted to railroad ties but the
    spikes are driven close to each rail so that the heads hook
    over the edge and hold the rail down without absolutely
    preventing its movement forward and backward. Why should rails
    be laid in this way?

    327. The earth keeps whirling around the sun without falling
    into it, although the pull from the sun is very great.

    328. Electricity is brought down from power houses in the
    mountains by means of cables.

    329. White clothes are cooler than black when the person
    wearing them is out in the sun.

    330. All the street cars along one line are stopped when a
    trolley wire breaks.

SECTION 36. Grounded circuits.

    Why can a bird sit on a live wire without getting a shock,
    while a man would get a shock if he reached up and took hold
    of the same wire?

We have just been laying emphasis on the fact that for electricity to flow out of a dynamo
or battery, it must have a complete circuit back to the battery or dynamo. Yet only one wire
is needed in order to telegraph between two stations. Likewise, a single wire could be made
to carry into a building the current for electric lights. This is because the ground can carry
electricity.

If you make all connections from a battery or dynamo just as for any complete circuit, but
use the earth for one wire, the electricity will flow perfectly well (Fig. 127). To connect
an electric wire with the earth, the wire must go down deep into the ground and be well packed
with earth; but since water pipes go down deep and the earth is already packed around them,
the most convenient way to ground a circuit is to connect the wire that should go into the
ground with the water pipe. The next experiment, the grounding of a circuit, should be done
by the class with the help of the teacher.

