You must know then,-but did you not know a young fellow that was called Handsome Tracy?  he
was walking in the Park with some of his acquaintance, and overtook three girls; one was very
pretty: they followed them; but the girls ran away, and the company grew tired of pursuing
them, all but Tracy. (There are now three more guns gone off; she must be very drunk.) He followed
to Whitehall gate, where he gave a porter a crown to dog them: the porter hunted them-he the
porter.  The girls ran all round Westminster, and back to the Haymarket, where the porter came
up with them.  He told the pretty one she must go with him, and kept her talking till Tracy
arrived, quite out of breath, and exceedingly in love.  He insisted on knowing where she lived,
which she refused to tell him; and after much disputing , went to the house of one of her companions,
and Tracy with them.  He there made her discover her family, a butterwoman in Craven Street,
and engaged her to meet him the next morning in the Park; but before night he wrote her four
love-letters, and in the last offered two hundred pounds a-year to her, and a hundred a-year
to Signora la Madre. Griselda made a confidence to a staymaker's wife, who told her that the
swain was certainly in love enough to marry her, if she could determine to be virtuous and
refuse his offers. "Ay," says she, "but if I should, and should lose him by it." However, the
measures of the cabinet council were decided for virtue: and when she met Tracy the next morning
in the park, she was convoyed by her sister and brother-in-law, and stuck close to the letter
of her reputation.  She would do nothing she would go nowhere.  At last, as an instance of
prodigious compliance, she told him, that if he would accept such a dinner as a butterwoman's
daughter could give him, he should be welcome.  Away they walked to Craven Street: the mother
borrowed some silver to buy a leg of mutton, and they kept the eager lover drinking till twelve
at night, when a chosen committee waited on the faithful pair to the minister of May-fair.
The doctor was in bed, and swore he would not get up to marry the King, but that he had a brother
over the way who perhaps would, and who did.  The mother borrowed a pair of sheets, and they
consummated at her house; and the next day they went to their own palace.  In two or three
days the scene grew gloomy; and the husband coming home one night, swore he could bear it no
longer.  "Bear! bear what?"--"Why, to be teased by all my acquaintance for marrying a butterwoman's
daughter.  I am determined to go to France, and will leave you a handsome allowance."--"Leave
me! why you don't fancy you shall leave me? I will go with you."--"What, you love me then?"--"No
matter whether I love you or not, but you shan't go without me."  And they are gone! If you
know any body that proposes marrying and travelling, I think they cannot do it in a more commodious
method.  I have raised seven-and-twenty bantams from the patriarchs you sent me.  Adieu!

(1464) Daughter of Washington, Earl Ferrers.

(1465) Lord Bolingbroke, in a letter to the Earl of Marchmont of the 1st of November, says,
"I hope you heard from me by myself, as well of me by Mr. Whitfield.  This apostolical person
preached some time ago at Lady Huntingdon's, and I should have been curious to hear him. Nothing
kept me from going, but an imagination that there was to be a select auditory.  That saint,
our friend Chesterfield, was there; and I hear from him an extreme good account of the sermon."
Marchmont Papers, vol. ii. p. 377.-E.

(1466) Dr. Beattie says, in a letter to Sir W. Forbes, "Gray's letters very much resemble what
his conversation was: he had none of the airs of either a scholar or a poet; and though on
those and all other subjects he spoke to me with the utmost freedom, and without any reserve,
he was in general company much more silent than one could have wished."-E.

 565 Letter 261
To Sir Horace Mann.
Strawberry Hill, Sept. 18, 1748.

I have two letters of yours to account for, and nothing to plead but my old insolvency.  Oh!
yes, I have to scold you, which you find is an inexhaustible fund with me.  You sent me your
d`em`el`e(1467) with the whole city of Florence, and charged me to keep it secret-and the first
person I saw was my Lord Hobart, who was full of the account he had received from you.  You
might as well have told a woman an improper secret, and expected to have it kept! but you may
be very easy, for unless it reaches my Lady Pomfret or my Lady Orford, I dare say it will never
get back to Florence; and for those two ladies, I don't think it likely that they should hear
it, for the first is in a manner retired from the world, and the world is retired from the
second.  Now I have vented my anger, I am seriously sorry for you, to be exposed to the impertinence
of those silly Florentine women: they deserve a worse term than silly, since they pretend to
any characters.  How could you act with so much temper? If they had treated me in this manner,
I should have avowed ten times more than they pretended you had done; but you are an absolute
minister!

I am much obliged to Prince Beauvau for remembering me, and should be extremely pleased to
show him all manner of attentions here: you know I profess great attachment to that family
for their civilities to me.  But how gracious the Princess has been to you!  I am quite jealous
of her dining with you: I remember what a rout there was to get her for half of half a quarter
of an hour to your assembly.

The Bishop of London is dead; having luckily for his family, as it proves, refused the archbishopric.*1468)
We owe him the justice to say, that though he had broke with my father, he always expressed
himself most handsomely about him, and without any resentment or ingratitude.

Your brothers are coming to dine with me; your brother Gal. is extremely a favourite with me:
I took to him for his resemblance to you, but am grown to love him upon his own fund.

The peace is still in a cloud: according to custom, we have hurried on our complaisance before
our new friends were at all ready with theirs.  There was a great Regency(1469) kept in town,
to take off the prohibition of commerce with Spain: when they were met, somebody asked if Spain
was ready to take off theirs?  "Oh, Lord! we never thought of that!"  They sent for Wall,(1470)
and asked him if his court would take the same step with us?  He said, "he believed they might,
but he had no orders about it."  However, we proceeded, and hitherto are bit.

Adieu! by the first opportunity I shelf send you the two books of Houghton, for yourself and
Dr. Cocchi.  My Lord Orford is much mended: my uncle has no prospect of ever removing from
his couch.

(1467) A Madame Ubaldini having raised a scandalous story of two persons whom she saw together
in Mr. Mann's garden at one of his assemblies, and a scurrilous sonnet having been made upon
the occasion, the Florentine ladies for some time pretended that it would hurt their characters
to come any more to his assembly.

(1468) Dr. Edmund Gibson had been very intimate with Sir Robert Walpole, and was designed by
him for archbishop after the death of Wake; but setting himself at the head of the clergy against
the Quaker bill, he broke with Sir Robert and lost the archbishoprick which was given to Potter;
but on his death, the succeeding ministry offered it to Dr. Gibson. [The Doctor declined it,
on account of his advanced age and increasing infirmities.  He died on the 6th of February, 1748.)

(1469) This means a meeting of the persons composing the Regency during the King's absence
in Hanover.-D.

(1470) General Wall, the Spanish ambassador.

