A "Neutral" correspondent of The London Daily Chronicle, just returned from Germany, was thus
quoted in a cable dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES on June 28:

It is in towns, particularly industrial towns, where one sees how entirely the German nation
is organized for war. Into these towns an enormous number of men have been drafted from the
country to work in factories, which are humming day and night with activity to keep up the
supply of all things necessary for the fighting line.

In general, the relations between capital and labor there have experienced notable amelioration.
Indeed, the impression one gains in traveling about Germany is one of absolute settled industrial
peace, but I know this has only been secured because all parties know that the first signs
of dissatisfaction would be treated "with the utmost rigor of the law."

At some of the largest factories men are often at work fifteen, twenty, and even thirty hours
on a stretch, with only short intervals for rest. Though it is said that there are ample stocks
of all kinds of ammunition, there is noted daily and nightly a feverish haste in the factories
where it is made.

The Government has not officially taken over the factories, but it is well known that all factory
owners who want Government work can get it, and, as this is almost the only profitable use
to which factories can just now be put, there is no lack of candidates for recognition as army
contractors.

Whenever a Government contract is given out there is a clause in the contract which fixes rates
of wages for every grade of workmen so that any questions of increases that the men might raise
are out of the hands of the employer, and he points to the fact that both he and the workmen
are in the hands of the State. Strikes are therefore unknown, a further deterrent being the
knowledge that any man who does not do his utmost without murmuring will quickly be embodied
in some regiment destined for one of the hottest places at the front.

In factories where Government work is being done wages are high, and even in the few cases
where wages of certain unskilled workers have fallen, the men are allowed to work practically
until they drop and so make up by more hours what they have lost by the lowered rates.

There is keen competition to obtain work in the factories working for the State, as the men
engaged in these know almost certainly that for some time at least they will not be sent to
the front, which seems to be the chief dread underlying all other thoughts and feelings.

For work done on Sunday wages are 50 per cent. higher than the usual rate. The men are encouraged
to work on Sundays and overtime on weekdays and the prices of food are so high they need little
encouragement. Where women have taken the places of men their wages are in most cases lower.

KRUPPS' IMPENDING STRIKE

An Associated Press dispatch from Geneva on July 15 said:

A report has reached Basle that a big strike is threatened at the Krupp Works at Essen, Germany,
the movement being headed by the Union of Metallurgical Workmen and the Association of Mechanics.
They demand higher wages, the report says, because of the increased cost of living and shorter
hours because of the great strain under which they work.

The workmen, according to these advices, are in an angry mood and threaten the destruction
of machinery unless their demands are granted immediately, as they have been put off for three
months with promises. Several high officials have arrived at the Krupp Works in an effort to
straighten out matters and calm the workmen, the advices add, and Bertha Krupp is expected
to visit the plant and use her great influence with the workers.

The Frankfort Gazette, according to the news reaching Basle, has warned the administration
of the Krupp plant of the seriousness of the situation, and has advised that the men's demands
be granted. Meanwhile, the reports state, several regiments have been moved to the vicinity
of the works to be available should the trouble result in a strike.

A dispatch to The London Daily Chronicle, dated Chiasso, July 16, reported:

According to a telegram from Munich to Swiss papers, the German military authorities have informed
the management and union officials of the Krupps, where disputes occasioned by the increased
cost of living have arisen in several departments, that in no circumstances will a strike be
tolerated.

On July 19 an Associated Press dispatch from Geneva reads:

An important meeting was held at Essen yesterday, according to advices received at Basle, between
the administration of the Krupp gun works and representatives of the workmen, in order to settle
the dispute which has arisen over the demands of the men for an increase in wages.

Directly and indirectly, about one hundred thousand men are involved. Minor cases in which
machinery has been destroyed have been reported.

The military authorities before the meeting, the Basle advices say, warned both sides that
unless an immediate arrangement was reached severe measures would be employed.

The Krupp officials are understood to have granted a portion of the demands of the employees,
which has brought about a temporary peace, but the workmen still appear to be dissatisfied,
and many have left the works.

A strike would greatly affect the supply of munitions, and for this reason the military have
adopted rigorous precautions.

On the same date the following brief cable was sent to THE NEW YORK TIMES from London:

A telegram to The Daily Express from Geneva says many men have already left the Krupp works
because they are unable to bear the strain of incessant labor, and would rather take their
chances in the trenches than continue work at Essen under the present conditions.

Some minor cases of sabotage have already been reported.

REMINGTON ARMS STRIKE

In a special dispatch to THE NEW YORK TIMES, dated Bridgeport, Conn., July 14, appeared the
following news of labor trouble in the American munitions factory:

One hundred workmen, twenty guards, and the Bridgeport police reserves took a hand in a riot
tonight at the new plant of the Remington Arms Company, where it is planned to make small arms
for the Allies. The riot brings to fever heat the labor excitement of the last week, which
yesterday caused the walkout of the structural ironworkers at the plant and today a walkout
of the millwrights and the ironworkers on the new plant of the sister company, the Remington
Union Metallic Cartridge Company.

The three thousand workmen have been stirred into a great unrest in the last week by some unseen
influence. Major Walter W. Penfield, U.S.A., retired, head of the arms plant, says pro-Germans
are back of the strike. This the labor leaders deny.

On July 15 the spread of the strike was reported in a special dispatch from Bridgeport to THE
NEW YORK TIMES:

The strike at the giant new plant of the Remington Arms Company under construction to make
arms for the Allies, as well as, it is supposed, for the United States Government, spread today
from the proportions of a picayune family labor quarrel to an imminent industrial war which
would paralyze Bridgeport, curtailing the shipment of arms and ammunition from this centre,
and which threatens to spread to other cities in the United States, especially to those where
munitions of war are being manufactured.

On July 20 THE NEW YORK TIMES published the demands of the workmen at the Remington Arms plant,
as outlined by J.J. Keppler, vice-president of the Machinists' Union:

Mr. Keppler was asked to tell concisely just what the unions wanted.

"There are at present," he replied, "just three demands. If the strike goes further the demands
will increase. The demands are:

"1. Recognition of the millwrights as members of the metal trade unions and not of the carpenters',
and fixing of the responsibility for the order some one gave for the millwrights to join the
carpenters' union, an attempt on the part of the Remington or the Stewart people to dictate
the international management of the unions.

"2. A guarantee of a permanent eight-hour day in all plants in Bridgeport making war munitions.
This carries with it a demand for a guarantee of a minimum wage and double pay for overtime.

"3. That all men who go on strike will be taken back to work."

In addition, of course, Mr. Johnston demands that Major Penfield retract his charge of German
influence being back of the strike.

A check, if not a defeat, administered to the fomenters of the strike was reported to THE NEW
YORK TIMES in a Bridgeport dispatch dated July 20, as follows:

John A. Johnston, International vice-president of the Iron Workers' Union, and J.J. Keppler,
vice-president of the Machinists', were on hand to inaugurate the big strike. All of Bridgeport's
available policemen were on duty at the plant.

As the whistle blew the crowd surged about the gates, where barbed wire and guards held them
back. Five minutes passed, ten, twenty, and 12.30 saw Keppler and Johnston pacing up and down
before the plant awaiting their men. At 1 o'clock not a machinist had issued from the portals.
The hoarse whistle blew, calling back the two thousand workers to their task, and Keppler and
Johnston and the rest were left in wonder.

A cog had slipped in this way:

Before the noon whistle blew, Major Walter G. Penfield, works manager of the plant, placed
guards at all the exits to ask the machinists to wait a few minutes. They did. The foreman
told them that, on behalf of the Remington Company, Major Penfield desired to assure them a
permanent eight-hour day, beginning August 1, and to guarantee a dollar a day increase in pay.

The Power of the Purse

How "Silver Bullets" Are Made in Britain

By Prime Minister Asquith

     For the first time in the financial history of Great
     Britain, Prime Minister Asquith declared in his Guildhall
     speech of June 29, an unlimited and democratic war loan was
     popularized, appealing to all classes, including the
     poorest, and advertising the sale through the Post Office of
     vouchers for as low as 5 shillings to be turned into stock.
     His speech was intended also to initiate a movement for
     saving and thrift among the people as the only secure means
     against national impoverishment by the war.

     A statement by Reginald McKenna, the Chancellor of the
     Exchequer, in the House of Commons on July 13, showed that
     approximately £600,000,000, or $3,000,000,000, had been
     subscribed, making this the greatest war loan raised in the
     history of any nation. The total number of subscribers
     through the Bank of England was 550,000, aggregating
     £570,000,000, or $2,850,000,000, while 547,000 persons had
     subscribed $75,000,000 through the Post Office. Besides this
     no estimate of the small vouchers taken out had been made,
     and the Post Office subscriptions had not been closed. The
     gigantic total, Mr. McKenna said, represented only new
     money, and not any stock which will be issued for purposes
     of conversion. Prime Minister Asquith's speech appears in
     full below.

In his speech in the Guildhall, London, on June 29, 1915, Mr. Asquith said:

This is, I think, the third time since the war began that I have had the privilege of addressing
you in this hall. On the first occasion, as far back as September last, I came here to appeal
to you to supply men to be trained to fight our battles at the front. Today I have come to
ask you here in the City of London for what is equally necessary for the success of our cause--for
the ways and means which no community in the Empire is better qualified to provide, to organise,
and to replenish.

This is the costliest war that has ever been waged. A hundred years ago our ancestors spent
eight hundred millions to vindicate, as we are vindicating today, the freedom of Europe, in
a war which lasted the best part of 20 years, which brings out a rough average of considerably
less than a million pounds a week. Our total expenditure today approaches for one year a thousand
millions, and we are spending now, and are likely to spend for weeks and months to come, something
like three million pounds a day. Our daily revenue from taxation, I suppose, works out less
than three-quarters of a million per day.

Those are facts which speak for themselves, and they show the urgent necessity, not only for
a loan, but for a national loan--a loan far larger in its scale, far broader in its basis,
and far more imperious in its demand upon every class and every section of the community than
any in our history.

For the first time in our financial experience no limit has been placed on the amount to be
raised; and that means that every citizen in the country is invited to subscribe as much as
he can to help us to a complete and speedy victory. I need not dwell on its attractiveness
from the mere investor's point of view. Indeed, the only criticism which I have heard in or
outside the House of Commons is that it is perhaps a little too generous in its terms. That
is a fault, if it be a fault, upon the right side.

For £100 in cash you get £100 in stock, with interest at 4-1/2 per cent. on the credit of the
British Exchequer. The loan is redeemable in thirty years, when every subscriber, or those
who succeed him, must get his money back in full, and the Government retain an option to repay
at the end of ten years. That is the earliest date on which any question of re-investment can
arise. Further, the stock or bonds will be accepted at par, with an allowance for accrued interest
as the equivalent of cash, for subscription to any loan that the Government may issue in this
country throughout the war.

I want especially to emphasise that this is for the first time in our financial history a great
democratic loan. The State is appealing to all classes, including those whose resources are
most limited, to step in and contribute their share to meet a supreme national need. The Post
Office will receive subscriptions for £5, or any multiple of £5, and will sell vouchers for
5s. and upwards which can be gradually accumulated, and by December 1st next turned into stock
of the new loan.

Every advantage which is given to the big capitalist is granted also in the same degree to
the smallest supporter of the country's credit and finance. And, under such conditions, I am
confident that the success of the loan as a financial instrument ought to be, and indeed is
now, absolutely secured. (Cheers.)

This meeting was called not only to advertise the advantages of the War Loan, but to initiate
a concerted national movement for what may be called war economy. My text is a very simple
one. It is this: "Waste on the part either of individuals or of classes, which is always foolish
and shortsighted, is, in these times, nothing short of a national danger." According to statisticians,
the annual income of this country--I speak of the country and not of the Government--the annual
income of this country is from two thousand two hundred and fifty to two thousand four hundred
millions, and the annual expenditure of all classes is estimated at something like two thousand
millions. It follows that the balance annually saved and invested, either at home or abroad,
is normally between three hundred and four hundred millions.

Upon a nation so circumstanced, and with such habits, there has suddenly descended--for we
did not anticipate it, nor prepared the way for it--the thundercloud of war--war which, as
we now know well, if we add to our own direct expenditure the financing of other countries,
will cost us in round figures about a thousand millions in the year. Now how are we, who normally
have only three hundred or four hundred millions to spare in a year, to meet this huge and
unexpected extraordinary draft upon our resources?

The courses open are four. The first is the sale of investments or property. We have, it is
said, invested abroad something like four thousand millions sterling. Can we draw upon that
to finance the war? Well, there are two things to be said about any such suggestion. The first
is that our power of sale is limited by the power of other countries to buy, and that power,
under existing conditions, is strictly limited.

The second thing to be said is this: That, if we were to try, assuming it to be practicable,
to pay for the war in this way, we should end it so much poorer. The war must, in any case,
impoverish us to some extent, but we should end it so much poorer, because the income we now
receive, mainly from goods and services from abroad, would be proportionately, and permanently,
reduced. I dismiss that, therefore, as out of the question.

Similar considerations seem to show the impracticability on any considerable scale of a second
possible expedient, namely, borrowing abroad. The amount that could be raised in any foreign
market at this moment, in comparison with the sum required, is practically infinitesimal, and,
if it were possible on any considerable scale, we should again have to face the prospects of
ending the war a debtor country, with a huge annual drain on our goods and our services, which
would flow abroad in the payment of interest and the redemption of principal. That again, therefore,
for all practical purposes, may be brushed aside.

There is a third course--payment out of our gold reserve, but that need only be stated to be
discarded. We cannot impair the basis of the great system of credit which has made this City
of London the financial centre and capital of the world.

There remains only one course, the one we have come here today to advocate, and to press upon
our fellow-countrymen--to diminish our expenditure and to increase our savings.

If you save more you can lend the State more, and the nation will be proportionately enabled
to pay for the war out of its own pocket. A second proposition, equally simple, and equally
true, is this. If you spend less, you either reduce the cost and volume of our imports, or
you leave a larger volume of commodities available for export.

The state of the trade balance between ourselves and other countries at this moment affords
grounds--I do not say for anxiety, but for serious thought. If you look at the Board of Trade
returns for the first five months--that is, to the end of the month of May--of the present
year--you will find, as compared with the corresponding period of last year, that our imports
have increased by thirty-five and a half millions; while our exports and re-exports have decreased
by seventy-three and three-quarter millions. What does that mean? It means a total addition
in five months of our indebtedness to other countries of nearly a hundred and ten millions,
and if that rate were to continue till we reached the end of a completed year, the figure of
indebtedness would rise to over two hundred and sixty millions.

That is a serious prospect, and I want to ask you, and those outside, how can that tendency
be counteracted? The answer is a very simple one--by reducing all unnecessary expenditure,
first, of imported goods--familiar illustrations are tea, tobacco, wine, sugar, petrol; I could
easily add to the list--and that would mean that we should have to buy less from abroad; and
next, as regards goods which are made at home--you can take as an illustration beer--setting
a larger quantity free for export, which means that we have more to sell abroad, and enable
capital and labour here at home to be more usefully and appropriately applied. That may seem
a rather dry and technical argument--(laughter)--but it goes to the root of the whole matter.

If you ask me to state the result in a sentence, it is this: All money that is spent in these
days on superfluous comforts or luxuries, whether in the shape of goods or in the shape of
services, means the diversion of energy which can be better employed in the national interests,
either in supplying the needs of our fighting forces in the field or in making commodities
for export which will go to reduce our indebtedness abroad.

And, on the other hand, every saving we make by the curtailment and limitation of our productive
expenditure increases the resources which can be put by our people at the disposal of the State
for the triumphant vindication of our cause.

I said our cause. That, after all, is the summary and conclusion of the whole matter. We are
making here and throughout the Empire a great national and Imperial effort, unique, supreme.
The recruiting of soldiers and sailors, the provision of munitions, the organisation of our
industries, the practice of economy, the avoidance of waste, the accumulation of adequate war
funds, the mobilisation of all our forces, moral, material, personal--all these are contributory
and convergent streams which are directed to and concentrated upon one unifying end, one absorbing
and governing purpose.

It is not merely with us a question of self-preservation, of safeguarding against hostile design
and attack the fabric which has withstood so many storms of our corporate and national life.
That in itself would justify all our endeavours. But there is something even larger and worthier
at stake in this great testing trial of our people.

There is not a man or a woman among us but he or she is touched even in the faintest degree
with a sense of the higher issues which now hang in the balance, who has not, during this last
year, become growingly conscious that, in the order of Providence, we here have been entrusted
with the guardianship of interests and ideals which stretch far beyond the shores of these
islands, beyond even the confines of our world-spread Empire, which concern the whole future
of humanity. (Cheers.)

Is right or is force to dominate mankind? Comfort, prosperity, luxury, a well-fed and securely
sheltered existence, not without the embellishments and concentrations of art and literature,
and perhaps some conventional type of religion--all these we can purchase at a price, but at
what a price! At the sacrifice of what makes life, national or personal, alone worth living.
My Lord Mayor and citizens of London, we are not going to make that sacrifice (loud and prolonged
cheers, the audience rising and waving their hats). Rather than make it, we shall fight to
the end, to the last farthing of our money, to the last ounce of our strength, to the last
drop of our blood. (Loud cheers.)

Cases Reserved

By SIR OWEN SEAMAN

[From Punch.]

     "The Government are of opinion that the general question of
     personal responsibility shall be reserved until the end of
     the War."--Mr. Balfour in the House.

    Let sentence wait. The apportionment of blame
      To those who compassed each inhuman wrong
    Can bide till Justice bares her sword of flame;
            But let your memories be long!

    And, lest they fail you, wearied into sleep,
      Bring out your tablets wrought of molten steel;
    There let the record be charáctered deep
            In biting acid, past repeal.

    And not their names alone, of high estate,
      Drunk with desire of power, at whose mere nod
    The slaves that execute their lust of hate
            Laugh at the laws of man and God;

    But also theirs who shame their English breed,
      Who go their ways and eat and drink and play,
    Or find in England's bitter hour of need
            Their chance of pouching heavier pay;

    And theirs, the little talkers, who delight
      To beard their betters, on great tasks intent,
    Cheapening our statecraft in the alien's sight
            For joy of self-advertisement.

    Today, with hands to weightier business set,
      Silent contempt is all you can afford;
    But put them on your list and they shall get,
            When you are free, their full reward.

New Recruiting in Britain

By Field Marshal Earl Kitchener, Secretary of State for War

     State registration of all persons, male and female, between
     the ages of fifteen and sixty-five, the particulars to
     include each person's age, work, and employers, and his
     registering to be accompanied by an invitation that he
     volunteer for work for which he may have special fitness,
     was the provision introduced in the House of Commons on June
     29, 1915, and passed by that body on July 8. In explaining
     the bill's intent its introducer, Mr. Walter Long, who is
     President of the Local Government Board, replied on July 9
     to the objection of critics who saw in it the first steps to
     compulsory service. He said that the National Register stood
     or fell by itself. So far as the use of it went, so far as
     the adoption of compulsion went, he declared frankly that
     the Prime Minister would be the last man in England to say,
     in the face of the situation in which Britons found
     themselves, anything which would prevent the Government
     adopting compulsory service tomorrow if they believed it to
     be right and necessary in order to bring this war to an end.
     Their hands were absolutely free. On the same day Earl
     Kitchener opened a recruiting campaign with a speech in the
     London Guildhall, which appears in part below.

The Lord Mayor of London, in calling upon Lord Kitchener, said the Empire had indeed been highly
fortunate in having him at the head of the War Office in this great national crisis. Earl Kitchener
was received with cheers as he said:

Hitherto the remarks that I have found it necessary to make on the subject of recruiting have
been mainly addressed to the House of Lords; but I have felt that the time had now come when
I may with advantage avail myself of the courteous invitation of the Lord Mayor to appear among
you, and in this historic Guildhall make another and a larger demand on the resources of British
manhood. Enjoying as I do the privilege of a Freeman of this great City--(hear, hear!)--I can
be sure that words uttered in the heart of London will be spread broadcast throughout the Empire.
(Cheers.) Our thoughts naturally turn to the splendid efforts of the Oversea Dominions and
India, who, from the earliest days of the war, have ranged themselves side by side with the
Mother Country. The prepared armed forces of India were the first to take the field, closely
followed by the gallant Canadians--(cheers)--who are now fighting alongside their British and
French comrades in Flanders, and are there presenting a solid and impenetrable front against
the enemy. In the Dardanelles the Australians and New Zealanders--(cheers)--combined with the
same elements, have already accomplished a feat of arms of almost unexampled brilliancy, and
are pushing the campaign to a successful conclusion. In each of these great Dominions new and
large contingents are being prepared, while South Africa, not content with the successful conclusion
of the arduous campaign in South-West Africa, is now offering large forces to engage the enemy
in the main theatre of war. (Cheers.) Strengthened by the unflinching support of our fellow-citizens
across the seas, we seek to develop our own military resources to their utmost limits, and
this is the purpose which brings us together today.

Napoleon, when asked what were the three things necessary for a successful war, replied: "Money,
money, money." Today we vary that phrase, and say: "Men, material, and money." As regards the
supply of money for the war, the Government are negotiating a new loan, the marked success
of which is greatly due to the very favorable response made by the City. To meet the need for
material, the energetic manner in which the new Ministry of Munitions is coping with the many
difficulties which confront the production of our great requirements affords abundant proof
that this very important work is being dealt with in a highly satisfactory manner. (Cheers.)
There still remains the vital need for men to fill the ranks of our Armies, and it is to emphasize
this point and bring it home to the people of this country that I have come here this afternoon.
When I took up the office that I hold, I did so as a soldier, not as a politician--(loud cheers)--and
I warned my fellow countrymen that the war would be not only arduous, but long. (Hear, hear.)
In one of my earliest statements made after the beginning of the war I said that I should require
"More men, and still more, until the enemy is crushed." I repeat that statement today with
even greater insistence. All the reasons which led me to think in August, 1914, that this war
would be a prolonged one hold good at the present time. It is true we are in an immeasurably
better situation now than ten months ago--(hear, hear)--but the position today is at least
as serious as it was then. The thorough preparedness of Germany, due to her strenuous efforts,
sustained at high pressure for some forty years, have issued in a military organization as
complex in character as it is perfect in machinery. Never before has any nation been so elaborately
organized for imposing her will upon the other nations of the world; and her vast resources
of military strength are wielded by an autocracy which is peculiarly adapted for the conduct
of war. It is true that Germany's long preparation has enabled her to utilize her whole resources
from the very commencement of the war, while our policy is one of gradually increasing our
effective forces. It might be said with truth that she must decrease, whilst we must increase.

It would be difficult to exaggerate the value of the response that has been made to my previous
appeals, but I am here today to make another demand on the manhood of the country to come forward
to its defence. I was from the first unwilling to ask for a supply of men in excess of the
equipment available for them. I hold it to be most undesirable that soldiers, keen to take
their place in the field, should be thus checked and possibly discouraged, or that the completion
of this training should be hampered owing to lack of arms. We have now happily reached a period
when it can be said that this drawback has been surmounted, and that the troops in training
can be supplied with sufficient arms and material to turn them out as efficient soldiers.

When the great rush of recruiting occurred in August and September of last year, there was
a natural difficulty in finding accommodation for the many thousands who answered to the call
for men to complete the existing armed forces and the New Armies. Now, however, I am glad to
say we have throughout the country provided accommodation calculated to be sufficient and suitable
for our requirements. Further, there was in the early autumn a very natural difficulty in clothing
and equipping the newly raised units. Now we are able to clothe and equip all recruits as they
come in, and thus the call for men is no longer restricted by any limitations, such as the
lack of material for training.

It is an axiom that the larger an army is, the greater is its need of an ever-swelling number
of men of recruitable age to maintain it at its full strength; yet, at the very same time the
supply of those very men is automatically decreasing. Nor must it be forgotten that the great
demand which has arisen for the supply of munitions, equipment, etc., for the armed forces
of this country and of our Allies also, as well as the economic and financial necessity of
keeping up the production of manufactured goods, involves the retention of a large number of
men in various trades and manufactures, many of whom would otherwise be available for the Colors.
In respect of our great and increasing military requirements for men, I am glad to state how
much we are indebted to the help given to the Recruiting Staff of the Regular Army and to the
Territorial Associations throughout the country by the many Voluntary Recruiting Committees
formed in all the counties and cities, and in many important boroughs for this purpose.

The public has watched with eager interest the growth and the rapidly acquired efficiency of
the New Armies, whose dimensions have already reached a figure which only a short while ago
would have been considered utterly unthinkable. (Cheers.) But there is a tendency, perhaps,
to overlook the fact that these larger armies require still larger reserves, to make good the
wastage at the front. And one cannot ignore the certainty that our requirements in this respect
will be large, continuous, and persistent; for one feels that our gallant soldiers in the fighting
line are beckoning, with an urgency at once imperious and pathetic, to those who remain at
home to come out and play their part too. Recruiting meetings, recruiting marches, and the
unwearied labors of the recruiting officers, committees, and individuals have borne good fruit,
and I look forward with confidence to such labors being continued as energetically as hitherto.

But we must go a step further, so as to attract and attach individuals who from shyness--(laughter)--or
other causes--(renewed laughter)--have not yet yielded to their own patriotic impulses. The
Government have asked Parliament to pass a Registration Bill, with the object of ascertaining
how many men and women there are in the country between the ages of fifteen and sixty-five
eligible for the national service, whether in the navy or army, or for the manufacture of munitions,
or to fulfil other necessary services. When this registration is completed we shall anyhow
be able to note the men between the ages of nineteen and forty not required for munition or
other necessary industrial work and therefore available, if physically fit, for the fighting
line. Steps will be taken to approach, with a view to enlistment, all possible candidates for
the Army--unmarried men to be preferred before married men, as far as may be. (Loud cheers.)
Of course, the work of completing the registration will extend over some weeks, and meanwhile
it is of vital and paramount importance that as large a number of men as possible should press
forward to enlist, so that the men's training may be complete when they are required for the
field. I would urge all employers to help in this matter, by releasing all men qualified for
service with the Colors and replacing them by men of unrecruitable age, or by women, as has
already been found feasible in so many cases.

When the registration becomes operative I feel sure that the Corporation of the City of London
will not be content with its earlier efforts, intensely valuable as they have been, but will
use its great facilities to set an example of canvassing for the cause. This canvass should
be addressed with stern emphasis to such unpatriotic employers as, according to returns, have
restrained their men from enlisting.

What the numbers required are likely to be it is clearly inexpedient to shout abroad. (Hear,
hear.) Our constant refusal to publish either these or any other figures likely to prove useful
to the enemy needs neither explanation nor apology. It is often urged that if more information
were given as to the work and whereabouts of various units, recruiting would be strongly stimulated.
But this is the precise information which would be of the greatest value to the enemy, and
it is agreeable to note that a German Prince in high command ruefully recorded the other day
his complete ignorance as to our New Armies. (Laughter and cheers.)

But one set of figures, available for everybody, and indicating with sufficient particularity
the needs of our forces in the field, is supplied by the casualty lists. With regard to these
lists, however--serious and sad as they necessarily are--let two points be borne in mind, first,
that a very large percentage of the casualties represents comparatively slight hurts, the sufferers
from which in time return to the front; and, secondly, that, if the figures seem to run very
high, the magnitude of the operations is thereby suggested. Indeed, these casualty lists, whose
great length may now and again induce undue depression of spirits, are an instructive indication
of the huge extent of the operations undertaken now reached by the British forces in the field.

American War Supplies

By George Wellington Porter

     The subjoined article appraising the stimulation given to
     the war industries of the United States by the European
     conflict appeared originally in THE NEW YORK TIMES of July
     18.

Within the last ten months contracts for war supplies estimated to exceed $1,000,000,000 have
been placed in the United States.

When war was declared last August this country was suffering from acute industrial depression;
many factories shut down, others operating on short time, and labor without employment. After
the paralyzing effect of the news that war was declared had worn away, business men here realized
the great opportunity about to be afforded them of furnishing war supplies which must soon
be in demand. Their expectations were soon fulfilled, as almost immediately most of the Governments
sent commissions to the United States. Some had orders to buy, while others were authorized
to get prices and submit samples.

It was not long until mills and factories were being operated to capacity, turning out boots
and shoes, blankets, sweaters, socks, underwear, &c. The manufacturers of these articles were
merely required to secure additional help in order to increase their plants' production.

The situation was different in relation to filling orders for arms and ammunition. At first,
as was natural, this business was placed with concerns engaged in the manufacture of these
commodities. Shortly they were swamped with orders, and to be able to fill them plants were
enlarged, new equipment added, and additional help employed.

More and more orders came pouring in, and, as the arms and munition houses were by this time
up to and some over capacity, acceptance by them of further business was impossible. Here,
then, was the opportunity for the manufacturers of rails, rivets, electrical and agricultural
machinery, locomotives, &c., to secure their share of this enormous business being offered.
The manner in which they arose to the occasion is striking testimony of the great resourcefulness,
efficiency, ingenuity, and adaptability of the American manufacturer.

The question of labor was of minor importance, due primarily to the fact that many thousands
of men were without employment and anxious to secure work, and secondarily for the reason that
skilled labor was not an essential factor. Most of the work is done by machinery and in a short
period of time a mechanic of ordinary intelligence will become proficient in running a machine.
The necessary trained labor could be secured without difficulty. Numbers of highly trained
employes at Government arsenals are now with private arms and ammunition concerns. The labor
problem therefore was negligible. However, three serious difficulties had yet to be overcome
by the manufacturers wishing to engage in this new line of business--the securing of new machinery,
raw materials, and capital.

The larger concerns had machinery and apparatus on hand suitable to most of the work, but much
new machinery was needed, especially for the manufacture of rifles, and needed in a hurry.
Time is the essence of these war supplies contracts, and, as many manufacturers agreed to make
early deliveries, it was up to them to secure this new machinery and have it installed without
delay; otherwise they could not manufacture and make deliveries as agreed to.

In this event they would suffer the penalty for non-fulfillment, as stipulated in the bond
given by them to the purchaser at the time of signing the contract. These bonds are known as
"fulfillment bonds" and are issued by responsible surety companies, usually to the amount of
5 per cent. of the total contract price, on behalf of the vendors, guaranteeing their deliveries
and fulfillment of the contract.

In the earlier stages of this war supply business the question of his ability to secure raw
materials with which to manufacture arms and ammunition or picric acid--this latter being used
to manufacture higher explosives--was of no great concern to the manufacturer taking an order;
but as orders came pouring in from abroad for ever larger amounts of supplies it was clearly
evident that the demand for raw materials would shortly equal, if not exceed, the supply thereof.
This condition was soon brought about, and today is one to be most seriously reckoned with
by the manufacturer before accepting a contract.

Some of the materials needed with which to manufacture the supplies are mild carbon steel for
the barrels, bayonets, bolt, and locks; well-seasoned ash or maple, straight-grained, for the
stocks; brass, iron, powder, antimony, benzol or phenol, sulphuric acid, nitric acid, and caustic
soda, &c. Of these various materials the most difficult to secure are those used in the manufacture
of picric acid.

Today it is almost impossible to secure phenol, certainly in any considerable quantities, and
it is almost as difficult to secure sulphuric acid and nitric acid. Germany has been the source
of supply in the past for picric acid. Before the war it sold around 35 cents to 40 cents per
pound, dry basis; recently it has sold at over $2 per pound for spot, that is immediate delivery,
and is quoted at from $1.25 to $1.60 per pound for early future deliveries.

Antimony is becoming so scarce, never having been produced in any great quantity in this country,
that in the new contracts being submitted for shrapnel shell it is stipulated that some other
hardening ingredients may be substituted in the bullets, either totally or partly replacing
the antimony.

Brass is essential to the manufacture of cartridges. The term "brass" is commonly understood
to mean an alloy of copper and zinc.

Up to a short time ago electrolytic copper was selling at 20-1/2 cents a pound, lead at 7 cents
a pound, commercial zinc at 29-1/2 cents a pound. Zinc ore, from which spelter is obtained,
reached the price of $112 a ton. American spelter was nearly $500 a ton, compared with $110
a ton before the war. Spelter was almost unobtainable. In England the situation was acute,
the metal there being quoted only nominally at around $550 a ton for immediate delivery.

Within the last few days prices have dropped materially, but how long they will remain at these
lower levels it is impossible to predict. If the war continues for any length of time the demand
for all these metals is certainly bound to increase, and this will automatically again send
up prices.

The world's production of spelter in 1913 (the latest authentic figures obtainable) was 1,093,635
short tons. Of this the United States produced 346,676 tons, or 31.7 per cent.; Germany, 312,075
tons, or 28.6 per cent.; Belgium, 217,928 tons, or 19.9 per cent.; France and Spain, 78,289
tons; and Great Britain, 65,197 tons. The world's production of spelter in 1913 exceeded that
of 1912 by 25,590 tons, or 2.2 per cent. The greatest increase was contributed by Germany,
which exceeded its production of 1912 by 4.4 per cent. The United States made a gain of 2.3
per cent. The excess of the world's production over consumption in 1913 was only 27,316 tons.

As can be seen from the above figures, Germany has control of practically one-half, possibly
now over one-half, of the world's production of spelter. Her position with respect to iron
and coal is equally strong, the United States not included. In 1913 Germany's production of
pig iron was 19,000 tons; Great Britain, 10,500 tons; France, 5,225 tons; Russia, 4,475 tons;
Austria and Belgium, over 2,000 tons each; Italy, negligible. She has captured a large proportion
of the coal resources of France as well. Her strength is her own plus that of conquered territory.

Before a contract for war supplies is let, more particularly with reference to contracts for
arms and ammunition, the manufacturer is requested to "qualify." This means he must show his
ability to "make good" on the contract he wishes to secure. If he is now or has been in the
past successfully engaged in the manufacture of the particular article in question, this is
usually sufficient; if it is out of his regular line, then he must prove to the satisfaction
of the War Department or the purchasing agent, as the case may be, that he has the technical
knowledge necessary for its production. In either event he must have an efficient organization,
suitable plants, with proper equipment and men to operate same; also the necessary raw materials
in hand or under option to purchase.

In most instances the manufacturer taking these war orders has been obliged to enlarge his
plants, add new machinery and purchase raw materials so as to be able to handle the business.
This meant the expenditure of large amounts of money on his part.

He did not have to depend, however, upon his own normal financial resources, as the contracts
carry a substantial cash payment in advance, usually 25 per cent. of the total contract price.
This advance payment is deposited in some New York bank simultaneously with the manufacturer's
depositing a surety bond guaranteeing his deliveries, and upon the manufacturer executing an
additional surety bond guaranteeing his responsibility he could draw down all or any part of
the cash advance he might wish to use for his immediate needs.

Before issuing these bonds the surety companies make rigid examination as to the ability of
the manufacturer to fulfill his contract. The commission charged for issuing these bonds is
from 2-1/2 to 5 per cent. on the amount involved. The demand for bonds has been so great during
the last six months that it has taxed to the limit the combined resources of all the surety
companies in the country.

The remaining part of the contract price is usually guaranteed by bankers' irrevocable letters
of credit or deposits made with New York banks, to be drawn against as the goods are delivered,
f.o.b. the factory--that is, free on board the cars--or f.a.s. the seaboard--that is, free
alongside ship--as the terms may provide.

Banks here are beginning to purchase bank acceptances or bank-accepted bills of exchange, and
in this manner payment is also being made to American manufacturers for goods sold to the Allies.
For example, when a purchasing agent in Paris places an order for ammunition here he makes
arrangements whereby the manufacturer will be authorized to draw on a New York banking institution
at a stipulated maturity, and after acceptance of his drafts by such banking institution he
could then negotiate these time drafts with his own banker--thus making them, less the discount,
equivalent to cash--through whom they could be rediscounted by the Federal Reserve banks. These
bank-accepted bills are discounted at a nominal rate of interest.

Before the war we were a debtor nation; today we are rapidly becoming, if we have not already
become, a creditor nation. A year ago we were selling abroad only about as much goods as we
were buying; now the balance of trade is greatly in our favor, due to the enormous export of
foodstuffs and war supplies of all kinds. Monthly our exports are exceeding our imports by
many millions of dollars. This indicates that foreign nations are going into debt to us.

At the time of writing this article foreign exchange was quoted as follows: London exchange,
sterling, 4.76-1/2; Paris exchange, franc, 5.45-3/4. By paying down $4.76-1/2 in New York you
can get £1 in London, which on a par gold basis is equivalent to $4.86 in London. By paying
down 94-1/2 cents in New York you can get the equivalent to 100 cents in Paris.

We now come to another interesting phase of this war supply business, namely, how some persons
thought these war orders could be secured and how they are actually being placed. In an incredibly
short period of time it became generally known that foreign Governments were shopping and buying
in our markets. The knowledge of this fact brought about a condition unique in our business life.

Men in all walks of life, from porters, barbers, clerks in offices, to doctors, lawyers, real
estate agents, merchants, Wall Street brokers and bankers, seemed suddenly imbued with the
idea of securing or bringing about the placing of a war order. Self-appointed agents, middlemen
and brokers sprang up over night like mushrooms, each and every one claiming he had an order
or could get an order for war supplies; or, as the case might be, he personally knew some manufacturer,
or he knew a friend who had a friend who knew a manufacturer, who in turn wished to secure
a contract. An official in one of our large steel companies told me some weeks ago that among
others who had called at his company's offices, asking prices on shrapnel, was an undertaker.

In most instances the lack of salesmanship experience, to say nothing of any knowledge of the
business and how the particular articles are manufactured, was of no consequence to the self-appointed
agent in his mad desire for business.

The lobbies of our New York hotels were filled with horsemen and would-be horsemen, some months
ago, almost every State being represented as far west as California; also with manufacturers
and manufacturers' agents, all eager to secure a "war contract," be it for horses, shrapnel,
rifles, picric acid, guncotton, toluol, cartridges, boots, shoes, sweaters, blankets, machinery
and materials, &c. The very atmosphere of Manhattan Island seems impregnated with "war contractitis."
We breathe it, we think it, we see it, we talk it, on our way downtown, at our offices and
places of business, at our clubs, on our way home at night, in our homes, and I have been told
that some have even slept it, the disease taking the shape of a nightmare.

The day of the broker, if indeed he ever had one in this business, is passed. The original
commissioners have been withdrawn, or those who have been kept here are now acting as inspectors
and have been replaced by purchasing agents. The firm of J.P. Morgan & Co. has been acting
as purchasing agent for the English Government for some months past, is now acting in like
capacity for the French Government, and has also done considerable buying for the Russian Government.

In order properly to handle this vast volume of business, a separate department was created,
known as the Export Department. Connected with this department are experts in all lines--men
who are thoroughly familiar with the various Governments' requirements, who know what prices
should be paid, who are in close touch with each market, and who understand fully the materials
they are buying.

There are a few more concerns, among which are one or two banks, trust companies, and Wall
Street houses, which also have formed separate organizations for the purpose of purchasing
war supplies for the Allies. As all these concerns are in close touch with the manufacturers
and will only deal directly with them, the brokers and middlemen have very little, if any,
chance of doing business.

Magazinists of the World on the War

Condensed from the Leading Reviews

     While the armies and generals of the belligerents are trying
     to execute by force the policies of their respective
     Governments, their publicists are not less busy in the work
     of voicing the national aspirations. Moreover, such a
     critical examination of the status of each armed Power, from
     its own standpoint and in comparisons and contrasts with its
     opponents, has never been conducted before the peoples of
     the world. It is a time of national heart-searchings, both
     among the warring nations and of neutrals whose destinies
     are only less affected. Résumés of this great process as
     reflected in the world's leading reviews appear below,
     beginning with the British publications.

Germany's Long-Nourished Powers

That Germany has been preparing forty years for this war is flatly contradicted by J. Ellis
Barker in his article entitled "The Secret of Germany's Strength," appearing in the Nineteenth
Century and After for July.

Not forty years, but for 260 years, since Frederick William, the Great Elector, came to the
Prussian throne, the slow-growing plants of German efficiency and thoroughness have steadily
unfolded, Mr. Barker says, in the administrative, military, financial, and economic policy
that make modern Germany. It was the Great Elector who "ruthlessly and tyrannously suppressed
existing self-government in his possessions, and gave to his scattered and parochially minded
subjects a strong sense of unity," thus clearing the way for his successors. Frederick William
I. founded in the Prussia prepared by his grandfather "a perfectly organized modern State,
a model administration, and created a perfectly equipped and ever ready army." Of him Mr. Barker
says:

     The German people are often praised for their thoroughness,
     industry, frugality, and thrift. These qualities are not
     natural to them. They received them from their rulers, and
     especially from Frederick William the First. He was an
     example to his people, and his son carried on the paternal
     tradition. Both Kings acted not only with thoroughness,
     industry, frugality, and economy, but they enforced these
     qualities upon their subjects. Both punished idlers of every
     rank of society, even of the most exalted. The regime of
     Thorough prevailed under these Kings who ruled during
     seventy-three years. These seventy-three years of hard
     training gave to the Prussian people those sterling
     qualities which are particularly their own, and by which
     they can easily be distinguished from the easy-going South
     Germans and Austrians who have not similarly been
     disciplined.

While the Great Elector prepared the ground, and King Frederick William I. firmly laid the
foundations, "Frederick the Great erected thereon the edifice of modern Germany." Mr. Barker adds:

     Among the many pupils of Frederick the Great was Bismarck.
     It is no exaggeration to say that the writings which
     Frederick the Great addressed to posterity are the arcana
     imperii of modern Germany. Those who desire to learn the
     secret of Germany's strength, wealth, and efficiency, should
     therefore most carefully study the teachings of Frederick
     the Great.

     Frederick's "Political Testament" of 1752 addressed to his
     successors begins with the significant words:

     "The first duty of a citizen consists in serving his
     country. I have tried to fulfil that duty in all the
     different phases of my life."

Frederick William I. looked out for the education of his successors in his own militarist ideals.
Instructing Major Borcke in 1751 on the tutoring of his grand-nephew, the Heir-Presumptive
of Prussia, he wrote:

     It is very important that he should love the Army. Therefore
     he must be told at all occasions and by all whom he meets
     that men of birth who are not soldiers are pitiful wretches.
     He must be taken to see the troops drilling as often as he
     likes. He ought to be shown the Cadets, and be given five or
     six of them to drill. That should be an amusement for him,
     not a duty. The great point is that he should become fond of
     military affairs, and the worst that could happen would be
     if he should become bored with them. He should be allowed to
     talk to all, to cadets, soldiers, citizens and officers, to
     increase his self-reliance.

A thorough monarchist, who noted that "when Sweden was turned into a republic it became weak,"
Frederick the Great preached a doctrine not different from that which inspires the speeches
of Kaiser Wilhelm II. when he said in his "Political Testament" of 1752:

     As Prussia is surrounded by powerful states my successors
     must be prepared for frequent wars. The soldiers must be
     given the highest positions in Prussia for the same reason
     for which they received them in ancient Rome when that State
     conquered the world. Honors and rewards stimulate and
     encourage talent and praise arouses men to a generous
     emulation. It encourages men to enter the army. It is
     paradoxical to treat officers contemptuously and call theirs
     an honored profession. The men who are the principal
     supports of the State must be encouraged and be preferred to
     the soft and insipid society men who can only grace an
     ante-chamber.

Mr. Barker comments on the fact that in 1776, thirteen years after the ruinous Seven Years'
War, Frederick the Great had accumulated financial resources sufficient to pay for another
war lasting four years, and that he pursued the food policy of his fathers "which is still
pursued by the Prusso-German Government." Moreover, he first exalted the German professor:

     A hundred and fifty years ago Prussia was a land peopled by
     boors. Now it is a land peopled by professors, scientists,
     and artists. Frederick the Great was the first Prussian
     monarch to realize that science and art increase the
     strength and prestige of nations. Hence, he began
     cultivating the sciences and arts, and his successors
     followed his example. As science and art were found to be
     sources of national power, they were as thoroughly promoted
     as was the army itself, while in this country [England]
     education remained amateurish. Men toyed with science and
     the universities rather taught manners than efficiency.

The lesson of this centuries-old efficient governmental machine is a supreme one to democratic
England, Mr. Barker thinks. Not that it is hopeless for a democracy to compete with a highly
organized monarchy, for has not Switzerland shown that "a democracy may be efficient, business-like,
provident, and ready for war?" England, on the other hand, has been a lover of luxury and ease.
She must gird up her loins and fight or die. The Anglo-Saxon race is fighting for its existence,
and delay is dangerous:

     War is a one-man business. Every other consideration must be
     subordinated to that of achieving victory. When the United
     States fought for their life, they made President Lincoln
     virtually a Dictator. The freest and most unruly democracy
     allowed Habeas Corpus to be suspended and conscription to be
     introduced, to save itself. Great emergencies call for great
     measures. The War demands great sacrifices in every
     direction. However, if it leads to England's modernization,
     to the elimination of the weaknesses and vices of
     Anglo-Saxon democracy, if it leads to the unification and
     organization of the Empire, the purification of its
     institutions, and the recreation of the race, the gain may
     be greater than the loss, the colossal cost of the War
     notwithstanding. The British Empire and the United States,
     the Anglo-Saxon race in both hemispheres, have arrived at
     the turning point in their history. The next few months will
     confirm their greatness or mark the beginning of their fatal
     decline.

"To Avenge"

Stern is the denunciation of W.S. Lilly, in the same issue of The Nineteenth Century and After,
upon the atrocities recounted in an article on German atrocities in France by Professor Morgan,
appearing in the next preceding number. Mr. Lilly quotes Thomas Carlyle's sarcastic words about
the "blind loquacious prurience of indiscriminate Philanthropism" that commands no revenge
for great injustice. He says:

     Apart from the "fierce and monstrous gladness," with which
     the German people have welcomed the hellish cruelty of their
     soldiery, they must be held responsible for its crimes.
     General von Bernhardi, indeed, assures them that "political
     morality differs from individual morality because there is
     no power above the State." And they have been given over to
     a strong delusion to believe this lie. Above the State is
     the Eternal Rule of Right and Wrong: above the State is the
     Supreme Moral Governor of the Universe; yes, above the State
     is God. Let us proclaim this august verity though in France
     Atheism has been triumphant; in England Agnosticism is
     fashionable; in Lutheran Germany--worst of all--evil has
     been enthroned in the place of good, and "devils to adore
     for deities" is the proper cult.

The resolution of the old Roman patriot that "Carthage must be destroyed" is quoted by this
writer. He adds:

     As stern a resolution is in the minds and on the lips of all
     true lovers of their country and of mankind, be they English
     or French, Russian, Italian, Japanese, and I do not hesitate
     to add American. German militarism must be utterly destroyed
     and the monstrous creation of blood and iron overthrown.
     Such is the plainest dictate of the instinct of
     self-preservation. It is also the plainest dictate of
     justice. Germany must be paid that she has deserved. When
     the triumphant Allies shall have made good their footing on
     her soil, they will not indeed rival her exploits or
     violating women and butchering children, of murdering
     prisoners and wounded, of slaying unoffending and peaceful
     peasants, of destroying shrines of religion and learning.
     But they will assuredly shoot or hang such of the chief
     perpetrators of these and the like atrocities as may fall
     into their hands. They will strip her of ill-gained
     territory. They will empty her arsenals and burn her war
     workshops. They will impose a colossal indemnity which will
     condemn her for long years to grinding poverty. They will
     confiscate her fleet. They will remove the treasures of her
     galleries and museums, and take toll of her libraries, to
     make compensation for her pillage and incendiarism in
     Belgium. The measure of punishment is always a matter of
     difficulty. But surely anything less than this would be
     wholly disproportionate to the rank offences of Germany. The
     reckoning, the retribution, the retaliation to be just must
     be most stern. The victorious Allies, who will be her
     judges, will not be moved by "mealymouthed philanthropies."

The Pope, the Vatican, and Italy

In The Fortnightly Review for July E.J. Dillon is sweeping in his arraignment of the new Pope
Benedict XV. and the Vatican, of the Pope because of his "neutrality in matters of public morality,"
and of the Vatican because of its hostility to the cause of Allies. Toward martyred Belgium
and suffering France the Pope "has been generous in lip sympathy and promises of rewards in
the life to come," Mr. Dillon says; but he has "found no word of blame for their executioners."
Mr. Dillon personally offered Benedict XV. "some important information on the subject which
seemed adequate to change his views or modify his action," but he "turned the conversation
to other topics." In fairness he adds that "personally Benedict XV. had been careful to keep
aloof from Buelow and his band," and has neither said nor done anything blameworthy with the
sole exception of the interview and message which he was reported to have given "to an American-German
champion of militarism at the instigation of his intimate counsellor, Monsignor Gerlach"--an
interview, by the way, which the Pope has since expressly repudiated.

Monsignor Gerlach, Mr. Dillon says, is "one of the most compromising associates and dangerous
mentors that any sovereign ever admitted to his privacy," and continues:

     Years ago, the story runs, Gerlach made the acquaintance of
     a worldly minded papal Nuntius in the fashionable salons of
     gay Vienna, and, being men of similar tastes and
     proclivities, the two enjoyed life together, eking out the
     wherewithal for their costly amusements in speculations on
     the Exchange. When the Nuntius returned to Rome, donned the
     Cardinal's hat, and was appointed to the See of Albano as
     Cardinal Agliardi, he bestowed a canonry on the boon
     companion who had followed him to the eternal city. The
     friendship continued unabated, and was further cemented by
     the identity of their political opinions, which favored the
     Triple Alliance. Gerlach became Agliardi's tout and
     electioneering agent when that Cardinal set up as candidate
     for the papacy on the death of Leo XIII. But as his chances
     of election were slender, the pair worked together to defeat
     Rampolla, who was hated and feared by Germany and Austria.
     Their bitter opponent was Cardinal Richard, a witty French
     prelate who labored might and main for Rampolla, and told me
     some amusing stories about Agliardi. Some years ago
     Gerlach's name emerged above the surface of private life in
     Rome in connection with what the French term un drame
     passionel, which led to violent scenes in public and to a
     number of duels later on. That this man of violent
     Pan-German sentiments should be the Pope's mentor and guide
     through the labyrinth of international politics seems a
     curious anachronism.

Although Cardinal della Chiesa, shortly before he became Benedict XV., was spoken of as the
inheritor of Rampolla's Francophile leanings, it is "now conjectured that at the Conclave this
legend secured from his not only the votes of the Teutonic Cardinals, who knew what his sentiments
really were, but also those of the French and Belgians, who erroneously fancied that they knew,"
Dr. Dillon says. He does not hesitate to believe that the Pope is "at heart a staunch friend
of Austria and a warm admirer of Germany, whom he looks upon as the embodiment of the principle
of authority and conservatism." For the Vatican his words are more unsparing:

     The Vatican, as distinguished from the Pope, was and is
     systematically hostile to the Allies. Its press organs,
     inspired by an astute and influential Italian ecclesiastic
     named Tedeschini, by Koeppenberg, a rabid German convert,
     and by the Calabrian Daffina, organized a formidable
     campaign against the King's Government and their supposed
     interventionist leanings. Its agents, including the priest
     Boncampagni and the German Catholics Erzberger, Koeppenberg,
     and others, were wont to meet in the Hôtel de Russie to
     arrange their daily plan of campaign, and when at last the
     people rose up against Giolitti and his enormities, the
     Vatican had its mob in readiness to make
     counter-demonstrations, and was prevented from letting it
     loose only by the superhuman efforts of decent Catholics and
     orderly citizens. It is a fair thing to add that the
     attitude of the Roman Catholic clergy throughout Italy has
     with some few exceptions been consistently patriotic. Even
     the bishops and archbishops of the provinces have deserved
     well of their King and country, while their flocks have left
     nothing to be desired on the score of loyalty and
     patriotism.

Buelow's mission to Italy and his relations with Giolitti, the defeated abettor of Austria
in the business preceding Italy's declaration of war, when they encountered the statecraft
of Sonnino and Salandra, are given in this version of Buelow's playing of his "trump card":

     Although the die was cast and Italy's decision taken, he had
     the Austrian concessions greatly amplified, and he offered
     them, not to the King's Government, but to Giolitti, his
     secret ally, who was not in office, but was known to be the
     Dictator of Italy. And Giolitti accepted them on the
     condition, to be fulfilled after the Cabinet's fall, that
     the territory would be further enlarged and consigned to
     Italy before the end of the war. The increase of prestige
     which this concession would bestow on the tribune was to be
     his reward for co-operation with the German Ambassador.
     Giolitti having thus approved the offer, undertook to have
     it ratified by Parliament, in spite of the engagements
     which the Cabinet had already entered into with the Allied
     Powers. In this sense he spoke to the King, wrote a letter
     designed for the nation, and obtained the public adhesion of
     a majority of the Chamber which was not then sitting.
     Thereupon the Cabinet resigned and left the destinies of
     Italy in the hands of the King and the nation. On the part
     of the Cabinet this was a brilliant tactical move and a
     further proof of the praiseworthy moral courage which it had
     displayed throughout the crisis. Indeed, the firmness,
     perseverance, and dignified disregard of mild invective and
     more deliberate criticism manifested by Sonnino and
     Salandra, entitle these Ministers to the lasting gratitude
     of their country. For it should be borne in mind that they
     had against them not only the Senate, the Chamber, a section
     of the Press, the "cream" of the aristocracy, the puny sons
     and daughters of the leaders of the Risorgimento, but also,
     strange to say, the majority of Italian diplomatists in the
     capitals of the Great Powers, one of whom actually fell ill
     at the thought that Italy was about to fight shoulder to
     shoulder with the State to which he was accredited. It would
     be interesting to psychologists to learn how this
     diplomatist and one or two of his colleagues felt when a few
     days later they were serenaded by enthusiastic crowds whom
     they were constrained to address.

Are the Allies Winning?

In a Doubting Thomas article headed "Are We Winning?" the anonymous "Outis" in The Fortnightly
Review concludes that "the Allies are winning, but very slowly. If their conquest is to be
assured, Great Britain's task is to mobilize every soldier and every workman, in order to prove
that whoever may fail, she at least does not intend to desist until the final triumph is won."
Moreover, the conquest must be in the West "if anywhere," and he looks somewhat askance at
the Dardanelles adventure:

     A good many competent authorities have disliked the idea of
     the Dardanelles expedition, on the strength of a general
     principle applicable to all military operations. It is said
     that in every war there is one distinct objective, and that
     that should never be neglected for any subsidiary
     operations. Thus, in the present instance, our main effort
     is to drive the Germans out of France and Belgium, and then
     to attack them in their own territory. Anything which
     interferes with this or throws it, however temporarily, into
     the background, is held to be unwise, because it leads to
     the most dangerous of results in warfare--the dissipation of
     forces, which, if united, would win the desired success, but
     if disunited will probably fail. Thus we are told that we
     must not fritter away our energies in enterprises which,
     however important in themselves, are not comparable with the
     one unique preoccupation of our minds--the conquest of
     Germany in Europe.

Selling Arms to the Allies

Horace White has no two opinions in his article in The North American Review for July as to
the wisdom and justice of the practice of American manufacturers in selling munitions which
the Allies are using to kill their Germanic enemies. Mr. White expresses it as the belief of
the great majority of people in the United States that Germany's war is without sufficient
cause, and that when she invaded Belgium she "made herself the outlaw of the nations--a country
whom no agreements can bind." Therefore he can see why no limit should ever be put to the world's
expenditure for armaments "while one incorrigible outlaw is at large." He adds:

     It is the opinion of most Americans that the most
     incorrigible and dangerous outlaw and armed maniac now
     existing is Germany, and that the first and indispensable
     step toward a restriction of armaments and a quiet world is
     to throttle and disarm her, and that no price is too great
     to pay for such a consummation. Any result of the present
     war which falls short of this will be the preliminary to a
     new armament and another war on a wider scale than the
     present one, since the United States will make preparations
     for the next one and most probably take part in it.

Hence proceeds Mr. White's justification for this neutral nation's supplying the Allies with arms:

     Germany, by bursting her way through Belgium, was enabled to
     seize eighty to ninety per cent. of the coal and iron
     resources of France and the greater part of her apparatus
     for the production of arms. She holds also the entire
     resources of Belgium, both of raw material and finished
     product. The foul blow by which she possessed herself of
     these indispensable treasures had two consequences which she
     did not look for--the active hostility of England and the
     moral indignation of all other nations. In helping France to
     make good the loss which she sustained through such perfidy
     the American people think that they are doing God's service,
     and their only regret is that they cannot do more of it. If
     they had foreseen the present conditions they would have
     enlarged their gun factories and powder mills to meet the
     emergency more promptly.

     A German writer in the New York Times of May 30, Mr. Vom
     Bruck, says: "If the German nation is wiped out with the
     help of American arms and ammunition no man of the white
     race in the United States would be able to think of such a
     catastrophe without horror and remorse." All of the
     contending nations say that they are fighting for existence,
     which means that if they do not win in the end they will be
     wiped out. With such an alternative staring us in the face
     very few tears would be shed by Americans, of any color, if
     both the Hohenzollerns and the Hapsburgs, with all their
     belongings, should be wiped off the face of the earth.

War and Non-Resistance

The pacifist "mollycoddle," as Theodore Roosevelt dubbed him in his San Francisco Exposition
speech, finds expression in these words of Bertrand Russell in the August number of the Atlantic
Monthly:

     All these three motives for armaments--cowardice, love of
     dominion, and lust for blood--are no longer ineradicable in
     civilized human nature. All are diminishing under the
     influence of modern social organization. All might be
     reduced to a degree which would make them almost innocuous,
     if early education and current moral standards were directed
     to that end. Passive resistance, if it were adopted
     deliberately by the will of a whole nation, with the same
     measure of courage and discipline which is now displayed in
     war, might achieve a far more perfect protection for what is
     good in national life than armies and navies can ever
     achieve, without demanding the carnage and waste and welter
     of brutality involved in modern war.

But it is hardly to be expected, Mr. Russell reluctantly concludes, that progress will come
in this way, because "the imaginative effort required is too great." He adds:

     It is much more likely that it will come, like the reign of
     law within the state, by the establishment of a central
     government of the world, able and willing to secure
     obedience by force, because the great majority of men will
     recognize that obedience is better than the present
     international anarchy.

     A central government of this kind would command assent not
     as a partisan, but as the representative of the interests of
     the whole. Very soon resistance to it would be seen to be
     hopeless and wars would cease. Force directed by a neutral
     authority is not open to the same abuse or likely to cause
     the same long-drawn conflicts as force exercised by
     quarreling nations, each of which is the judge in its own
     cause. Although I firmly believe that the adoption of
     passive instead of active resistance would be good if a
     nation could be convinced of its goodness, yet it is rather
     to the ultimate creation of a strong central authority that
     I should look for the ending of war. But war will end only
     after a great labor has been performed in altering men's
     moral ideals, directing them to the good of all mankind, and
     not only of the separate nations into which men happen to
     have been born.

"Good Natured Germany"

The leading article in the June issue of the Süddeutsche Monatshefte (Munich) is by Dr. George
Grupp, one of Germany's most able scholars, and is entitled, "Never Can Germany be Overcome
if She be United." Dr. Grupp finds evidences for this assertion all through history, and quotes
some of the earliest commentators and historians to this effect:

     As early as 1487 Felix Fabri, a Dominican of Ulm wrote: "Si
     Germani essent ubique concordes, totum orbem domarent." (If
     the Germans were united they would conquer the whole world.)

     The sentence is an echo of the fiery address which one
     Aeneas Silvius, later to become pope, delivered to the
     German princes after the fall of Constantinople, and from
     which Felix Fabri himself gives a quotation....

     To Germany alone the Greeks looked for any considerable
     help. An evidence of this is the beautiful and often quoted
     remark of the Athenian Laonikos Chalkokondylas: "If the
     Germans were united and the princes would obey, they would
     be unconquerable and the strongest of all mortals."

     We encounter similar statements very frequently, both
     earlier and later, from the Roman courtier Dietrich von
     Nieheim and from the humanists, from the Alsatian Wimpheling
     and Sebastian Brant, from the Swabian Nauclerus and the
     Frank Pirckheimer. "What could Germany be," they cry, "if
     she would only make use of her own strength, exploit her own
     resources for herself! No people on earth could offer her
     resistance!"

Dr. Grupp claims that Germany's lack of unity has resulted only from her rule of goodwill toward
all, within her borders as well as without.

     It never occurred to the Germans as to other peoples to
     disturb the peaceful development of their neighbors. They
     allowed mighty powers to build themselves up unmolested and
     to rise above Germany's head. In their internal affairs they
     observed the same principle of justice; no line, no class,
     no province, no grant succeeded in obtaining so oppressive
     an ascendancy, that other lines and classes, other provinces
     and grants were simply annihilated. The unfortunate
     consequence was lack of unity.

     Nowhere were or are there so many cultural centres, so many
     different movements, tendencies, parties. This great
     multifariousness of the German life was recognized and
     admired by others. But this very multifariousness had its
     darker side, the fatal, much deplored lack of unity.

Through the centuries, Dr. Grupp claims, Germany has been altogether too good-natured, allowing
other nations to all but bleed her to death.

     In her peaceable disharmony Germany has dreamed along
     carelessly and good-naturedly for centuries until the abrupt
     awakening when she saw a yawning abyss opened up at her
     feet. Good-naturedly she has allowed herself to be plundered
     and faithfully she has fought other nations' battles. As
     early as the 15th century the humanists remarked the fact
     that alien states gladly took German soldiers into their
     service, and later on it was worse than that. Foreign
     countries gladly waged their wars on German territory. Here
     was decided for the most part the fate of the Spanish
     world-empire, here France and England battled for supremacy.
     The Seven Years' War was not only a question of Schleswig;
     it was a question of whether North America and even far-away
     India should be French or English.

     Now the condition is suddenly reversed; the Germans are
     fighting for themselves, and the fact arouses the limitless
     rage of their opponents. Let us console ourselves with the
     fact that even in the Middle Ages it was said: "Teutonici
     nullius amici," in spite of their peaceableness.

Italy's Defection

Dr. Eduard Meyer has contributed an article to the Süddeutsche Monatshefte (Munich) on "Ancient
Italy and the Rise of the Italian Nation." Dr. Meyer is professor of history in the University
of Berlin, and is a brother of Dr. Kuno Meyer who recently attracted much attention in this
country by severing his connection with Harvard University because of a prize "war poem" written
by one of the undergraduates. A postscript reflects Dr. Meyer's present feeling toward Italy's
defection:

     The views which I have presented in this article are the
     fruit of long years of study and research; and I feel myself
     constrained to state explicitly that they are in no wise
     influenced by the events which we have experienced during
     the last few weeks. But it may be that a short postscript is
     necessary.

     Italy has not won her present national unity by reason of
     her own strength; she owes it to the combinations of the
     changing world-situation and the victories of foreign
     powers, which her statesmen have known how to use to the
     best advantage.

According to Dr. Meyer, Italy's claim to be one of the great powers is not based on any actual
ability to uphold that claim; it merely happens that her assertion has not been challenged.

     She has claimed for herself the status of a great power on a
     par with the other large nations of the world; but she has
     not possessed the inner strength of herself to support such
     a claim without the help of stronger powers.

     In August, 1914, Italy had the opportunity to decide her
     fate. If she could have made the choice then, if she could
     have gone into the world-war with all the might that she
     possessed and, staking her whole existence, have fought
     toward the highest goal, she might have won for herself a
     powerful and self-sufficient place in the world.

On account of his many utterances since the outbreak of the war, Ludwig Thoma's März (Munich),
a weekly founded by him, has attracted much attention. An article entitled "Italy's Defection,"
in a recent issue, is most bitter in tone, accusing Italy of long-standing intrigue and treachery.

     We know that Italy went still further from the fact that at
     the renewal of the alliance in 1912 in Paris she expressly
     announced that she would not march against France. It will
     be remembered how quick the French army command was to take
     stock of relations on the southeastern border, with the
     result that in the very first days of mobilization their
     troops were called from the Savoy Alps and by the eighth of
     August were giving battle on the Alsatian border.

     But Italy still guarded the neutrality which she had
     proclaimed and with apparent reasonableness she was able to
     hold that the letter of the Triple Alliance did not compel
     her to enter the conflict. Laughing in her sleeve she could
     even give it out that her sympathetic neutrality would
     sufficiently guarantee to her allies certain suspended
     contracts of an economic nature. Neutral Italy furnished
     Germany to a considerable extent with products of its own
     land and others which were not unwelcome.

     That the mobilization of an Italian army on France's borders
     might have been able to decide the war as far back as
     September, is a consideration which, in the face of this
     hypocritical neutrality, one cannot face without driving
     one's nails into one's flesh!

It was through the connivance of England that Italy weakly found herself forced to enter the
war against her former allies.

     Sir Edward Grey found the way to do it. Italy learned that
     England was no longer in a situation to hold the Straits of
     Gibraltar and the Suez Canal open and was obliged to take
     over the control of Italian imports. Even before this
     British agents had control of the port of Genoa and there
     was no doubt that through most irritating measures on
     England's part which skillfully concealed the motive behind
     them, a blow would be struck at the very roots of Italy's
     existence and famine would set in. Presently the Italian
     politicians and the crown were confronted with a dilemma
     which left them the choice only between war and
     revolution....

     Not every people has the political government which it
     deserves; the Italian people are the victims of a
     government, essentially undeserved but traditionally
     faithless.

     But Mars is now shaking the dice and behind the curtain of
     the future Revolution stands waiting.

Apologies for English Words

An indication of the height to which the "Gott Strafe England" feeling has climbed in Germany
is shown in the following announcement by the management of Die Woche (Berlin):

     TO OUR READERS!

     Many readers of Die Woche have taken offense at the words
     "Copyright by ..." (in English) and demand that this English
     formula be rendered hereafter in German. This desire,
     springing from patriotic motives, is easily understood, but
     unfortunately cannot be carried out for the form "Copyright
     by ..." is demanded by the American copyright law in this
     form. If we did not print these words in English, which is
     the official language of the United States, our copyright in
     America would be void and the protection both of ourselves
     and our writers would be forfeited.

Germanic Peace Terms

[From the Budapest Correspondent of The London Morning Post.]

To the Revue de Hongrie, the only French paper in Budapest, Count Andrássy contributes an article
for July entitled "Les garanties d'une paix durable," and discusses the peace terms the Central
Empires are to put forward in the event of final victory. He objects to the idea of annexation
or anything more than "boundary corrections," and says:

     Our war is a defensive war, which will achieve its aim when
     our enemies have been expelled from our territory and their
     ring has been broken. This aim could be best served by
     making peace with one or other of our enemies and winning
     him over to our cause. This would be of immense advantage to
     the future of civilization and ensure us against the horrors
     of a prolonged war. A separate peace would be the best
     chance for certain Powers to change their international
     policy. To my mind the issues of this war will greatly
     change the attitude of some hostile States toward us, and
     will bring about more intimate relations between them and
     ourselves, besides widening the foundations of the alliance
     between Hungary and her allies. And this is to be the rock
     upon which the European balance of power is to rest in the
     future. Our war is not a war of conquest, and the boundary
     changes of which some people speak are not the sine qua
     non of a good peace. Therefore I do not even wish to speak
     about certain territorial alterations, which, nevertheless,
     might be necessary.

Regarding the question of England and nationality, Count Andrássy says:

     Victory no doubt affords us the right to demand the
     alteration of the map of Europe, yet, this not being our aim
     and not to our interest, we can be satisfied with certain
     compensations, as no doubt our enemies would not spare us if
     they were victorious. Lloyd George said that the States are
     to be shaped in the future according to nationalities, which
     means that the Monarchy is to be disrupted. An English
     scholar not long ago expressed the same view, and, in fact,
     in England this idea is being impressed upon the people.
     This policy is sounded in a country which dominates so many
     millions of alien nationalities. If England speaks in this
     way, though she is not in direct conflict with us, what can
     we expect from Russia or Italy? Everyone knows that Russia
     wants Galicia, the Bukovina, Màramaros; Serbia wants Bosnia,
     Herzegovina, Croatia, Slavonia, and the Banat; Italy they
     won to their side by promising her our territory;
     Transylvania is promised to the one who cares to take it;
     henceforth, if we wish to defend it, we shall have to
     prepare for a new attack from another quarter. Yet nothing
     would be more alien to our thoughts than that if victorious
     we should annex foreign territory, for we would have
     seriously to consider if such conquest would be to our
     advantage or not. The same policy ought to be applied in
     Germany. Though her enemies would not spare her either, she
     must be cautious not to go too far in her appetites, and
     should seek for monetary compensations. Most of all she has
     to be careful not to claim territory, which would mean
     everlasting unrest and a new irredentism. It would be a bad
     policy even to touch the Balkans, for such interference
     would sooner or later bring Russia back to the Balkans, and
     the peoples there, menaced in their independence by us,
     would turn to Russia. We would thus place nations used to
     independence under alien rule, and such an act would neither
     be a wise nor a paying policy.

As regards Italy, Count Andrássy has also a solution which is quite generous. He says:

     We would not do well if we were influenced by just revenge
     and turned our eyes on Italian territory. To force territory
     from a country whose people are so patriotic would be a
     source of weakness on our part. In the worst case, only
     boundary corrections can be thought of, and no conquest.
     Italy must recompense us by money and not territory, for not
     the Italian people, but its Government, committed a breach
     of faith against us.

France's Bill of Damages

The agricultural problem in France is the subject of an article by Professor Daniel Zolla in
La Revue Hebdomadaire (Paris). Professor Zolla is a leader in the agricultural school at Grignon,
and the main part of his article is a discussion of France's agricultural losses and how to
repair them. He sums the present situation as follows:

     At the end of May the enemy were occupying territory
     amounting to about two million hectares. In this zone as in
     the regions invaded though immediately evacuated, the
     agricultural losses have been admittedly severe: harvests,
     livestock, implements, fodder, have been stolen or
     destroyed; the buildings, burned or ruined, will have to be
     entirely rebuilt. The soil itself, ploughed with trenches,
     dug up by shells, infested with weeds, has lost much of its
     fertility....

     In the invaded region which is one of the richest and most
     fertile in all France, the farming capital amounts at the
     least to five hundred francs per hectare, not counting the
     value of the buildings and of the land itself. For a total
     of two million hectares, the sum thus represented in the
     personal advances of farmers reach or surpass a billion, for
     in French Flanders and in Artois this minimum estimate of
     five hundred francs is greatly exceeded.

Concerning future indemnification for these losses, Professor Zolla writes:

     It is the entire country at which the enemy wished to strike
     by ruining a certain number of the people; it is the country
     which should repair the ruin and indemnify the losses. Never
     will the principle of national solidarity apply with more
     justice and reason. The interest of the state can demand, it
     is true, that the victim who has become a creditor of the
     country shall not exact immediate payment of the sums due
     him. This is a question of the time needed to enable the
     country to pay and the representatives of the nation must be
     the judges of that.

     But admitting the principle, it will suffice if it be known
     that the Treasury accepts the liability; it will be
     sufficient if certain annuities are promised and managed so
     that the parties can procure through the ordinary avenues of
     credit, the necessary indemnities.

     This is the method which the National Assembly adopted in
     1873. A sum of one hundred and eleven millions voted as
     relief, was represented by twenty-six annuities including
     interest at five per cent. and redemption.

Professor Zolla admits that France is going to encounter a serious difficulty in the scarcity
of labor which is sure to follow the close of the war. It is not too early, he advises, to
begin working on the solution of this problem so that France will be ready to meet it when
it arises:

     There are in the main, two methods by which the scarcity of
     farm labor can be offset:

     1. By multiplying the machines which replace manual labor,

     2. By modifying our agricultural methods so that preference
     is given to those which demand the least proportion of
     manual labor....

     All the associations which are fortunately so numerous in
     our country, all the agricultural societies, all the
     co-operative societies which are already formed, should
     double their efforts to put at the disposition of their
     members those implements which on account of their high
     price are not available for the individual farmer.

Prices will rise after the war, but this, argues Professor Zolla, will be beneficial rather
than otherwise.

     High prices will be offset by large production: this excess
     of production will, however, follow on the activity of the
     rural producer, and that activity will be maintained and
     increased by high prices which always insure large profits.

     In short, the rise in price wall be most favorable to the
     agricultural interests just at a time when the difficulties
     of obtaining labor will come to swell the necessary expenses
     of production. The crisis which might be in store is thus
     dissipated and the agricultural situation remains much as it
     was before the war--that is to say, very satisfactory.

     The losses undergone will be considerable in the invaded
     regions, the obstacles which the farmer must overcome will
     be great but not insurmountable, but success will recompense
     the valor and the hard labor of our countrymen. And to be
     just we must not forget that this will be made possible by
     the work of the French women in the fields.

A French Rejoinder

In the Revue des Deux Mondes (Paris), of which he is managing editor, M. Francis Charmes, of
the Académie Française, replies to a speech made by von Bethmann-Hollweg before the Reichstag,
in which the German Chancellor expressed sympathy for the deluded French soldiers, who had
not an inkling of the true course which the war was taking. M. Charmes ironically remarks:

     We do not publish, he [von Bethmann-Hollweg] claims, any of
     the German dispatches, so that opinion is quite
     unenlightened as to what is actually happening on the field
     of battle.

     One would think, according to M. de Bethmann-Hollweg, that
     the German dispatches are a source on which one can rely
     with full confidence, and one would imagine, too, since he
     had thus reproached us, that the German newspapers published
     the French dispatches.

     As a matter of fact, they do not and if it is necessary to
     hear both sides to know the truth then the Germans are quite
     ignorant of it. They are indeed very far removed from
     knowing it, and it is a constant surprise to our officers
     and our soldiers to discover when they question their
     prisoners, the profound illusions under which they labor.

Dr. von Bode's Polemic

Some time ago Dr. Wilhelm von Bode, the well-known director of the Berlin Art Museums and Germany's
authority in matters of art, issued a justification of German conduct in Rheims and Louvain,
which he supported by a review of Germany's world-contribution to art. "The German Science
of Art and the War," was the title of the article. Jacques Mesnil, writing in the Mercure de
France, presents a reply to Dr. von Bode's polemic.

He brands as infantile the reasoning by which Dr. Bode proves the German soldier incapable
of destroying a work of art. The German professor stated that civilization, and with it art,
could not have survived were it not for the protection of German militarism. M. Mesnil replies:

     M. Bode should have been able to separate a little better
     two things which have nothing to do with each other:
     strategy and the history of art. He should have explained
     the conduct of the soldiers by the service which is required
     of them; he should have pointed out precisely the point of
     view of the archaeologist as incompatible with that of the
     warrior and he should have freed of responsibility those
     who, loving the picturesque old cities and the pure
     creations of artists, could not sympathize with those who
     destroy them.

     Far from this, he has invoked the merits of German science
     to justify the outrages of the soldiery and in his eyes the
     fact that German savants have added to the progress of
     archaeology suffices to prove that the German army is
     incapable of destroying works of art.

Examination of Professor von Bode's claim that Germany leads the world in the "science of art,"
would seem to M. Mesnil to show that the German art-scientist is little more than a painstaking
classifier, a mere cataloguer.

     Taken as a whole, the art historians in Germany are a lot of
     excellent laborers, energetic and conscientious, who could
     render valuable service were they well directed. But it is
     precisely their direction which is at fault. Those among
     them who play the rôle of leader do not know how to
     distinguish the relative importance of the problems which
     come to their consideration; in confused multitude of facts,
     they follow a purely exterior and quite military order in
     their classifications; in the same way that a man in the
     army is a man only and that all the human units are in rigid
     divisions, so for the apostles of "the science of art" a
     fact is a fact and automatically falls under the head
     destined for it.

"Carnegie and German Peace"

An article in La Revue (Paris), "Carnegie and the German Peace," would seem to indicate that
France is not yet looking toward peace. The article is by Jean Finot himself, the well-known
editor and publisher of La Revue, and it gives the pacifists short shrift indeed. The American
peace propaganda, M. Finot characterizes as "the attempt at corruption," and he holds Mr. Carnegie
responsible:

     Unfortunately Mr. Carnegie endeavors to keep them [his
     opinions regarding peace] alive by supporting them with
     considerable sums of money for their diffusion abroad. A
     movement for "a German peace" has thus sprung up in America
     and it is taking on more and more disquieting
     proportions....

     Mr. Carnegie has been accused and not perhaps without
     reason, of subsidizing many Germanophile publications and
     thus of aiding in the work of corruption which Germany and
     her agents are carrying on throughout the whole world.

The recent peace congress of women at The Hague comes in for some strong language:

     The international congress of women pacifists seems to be
     due to Mr. Carnegie's generosity. This poisoning of public
     opinion, carried out systematically by his agents and his
     money, has become particularly odious. We do not suspect the
     honesty of his intentions, but we deplore his profound lack
     of comprehension of the events which have been taking place
     before his eyes.

     Among the American women noted for their talent and
     character, Miss Jane Addams occupies a prominent place. But
     it seems that her sturdy honesty was not sufficient to
     resist the temptation of putting herself at the heels of Mr.
     Carnegie. We are convinced the charges of other than purely
     disinterested motives against Miss Addams are wholly
     unjustified. But she has participated in the women's
     congress at The Hague under truly regrettable conditions.

M. Finot's references to Chautauqua and the part it plays in the preparation of American opinion
are veiled but none the less suggestive:

     The important rôle which the Chautauqua conferences play in
     the United States is well known. These conferences of
     teachers which have so profound an influence on American
     opinion have been supported by Mr. Carnegie in the interests
     of realizing this idea of a precipitate peace, of a German
     peace. All manner of adventurers and seekers of easy
     fortunes have gathered around this strange deviation of the
     pacifist ideal represented by the multi-millionaire and the
     men of his stripe.

Russia's Supply of Warriors

In an article headed "Ought the War to Last Long--and Can It Last Long?" V. Kuzmin-Karavaeff
says in the Russian European Messenger for June:

     It is, of course, impossible to say how long the war will
     last. But the case is altered if the question be put in
     another form: Ought the war to last long, and can it
     last long? The ten months which have elapsed make it
     entirely possible to answer it, for, in answering it, there
     is no need to guess at the thoughts, wishes, and hopes of
     the Germans which are bound up with the war.

     In the eyes of Russia and her Allies the present war has as
     its object the crushing and dispersing of "the nest of
     militarism," constructed in the centre of Europe by the hand
     of Bismarck and the vainglory of Wilhelm II. That was
     clearly defined last autumn by our diplomatic department.
     That is precisely the way in which it was and is defined by
     all classes of the Russian people, not excluding those who
     are represented by Kropotkin and Plekhanoff. The present war
     became far more for Germany than a war for the integrity of
     her territory, for her colonial interests, or for her
     commercial supremacy, from the moment when three--now
     four--great powers rose at her arrogant challenge. Germany
     is everywhere attacking, but, in reality, she is conducting
     a desperate war of defence for the organization of her
     existence, which, for the space of forty years, has rested
     on a nervous anticipation of war with her neighbors.
     Germany's offensive is a strategical manoeuvre. As a
     matter of fact, she is fighting like a wild animal
     surrounded on all sides. And, of course, she will carry on
     the war until the last degree of exhaustion is reached. She
     has accumulated within her many forces--technical forces.
     Mere technical forces cannot stand their ground in the end.
     But no little time must still elapse. And the war must
     continue for a long time still, if the "nest of militarism"
     is to be annihilated.

     But, on the other hand, can it continue a long time? We
     Russians have a complete right to say, with conviction: Yes.
     Ten months of war have plainly demonstrated that we still
     possess a land which is still intact, and personal and
     economic forces.

     To the east of the Dnieper and Moscow the war is hardly felt
     at all. This is particularly true of the principal
     foundations of our life--the peasant country parts numbering
     their hundred millions. The villages have sent to the war
     millions of young men, and even fathers of families, heads
     of households. Many tears have already been shed in the
     country, and there are many orphans, many cripples. But the
     peasant countryside has not suffered economically. On the
     contrary, after ten months of war and closed liquor-shops,
     it has reconstructed itself and smartened itself up to a
     noteworthy degree. The fields have been sown. From among the
     huge mass only those laboring hands have been withdrawn for
     the war which would not have remained at home in any case,
     but would have been lured away to earn money elsewhere.

     The same thing is observable also in the towns. The masses
     in the towns have increased their deposits in the savings
     banks tenfold, while consuming more meat than before the
     war, and resorting less frequently to the loan banks.
     Information made its way out of Germany long ago to the
     effect that all the males there, with the exception of
     decrepit old men and small children, have been called to the
     army. The peculiar "crisis in men" in Berlin has frequently
     served as a subject of jest in the humorous press.

     In Russia, every railway station swarms with young, healthy,
     powerful porters who offer their services; every large
     restaurant has a host of waiters; the wharves on the Volga
     and, in conclusion, the mere throngs on the streets bear
     witness to the fact that nothing resembling the "crisis in
     men" exists with us. Numerous as have been the soldiers who
     have gone to the war, the supply of men who are capable of
     bearing arms is still colossally great with us.
     Consequently, we have the material to fill up losses in the
     army. And that being the case, we can go on with the war for
     a long time to come--for as long a time as may be necessary
     to bring it to a proper ending.

Austria and the Balkans

Germanic influences in the Balkan Peninsula are discussed by A. Pogodin in the magazine Russian
Thought. Mr. Pogodin says:

     Without having in view any acquisitions whatsoever in the
     northern part of the Peninsula, Russia is deeply interested
     in seeing to it that Germanic influence does not acquire
     preponderance there, because that influence, in its turn,
     has no aims save territorial acquisition. The Balkan
     Peninsula is admitted to be the most influential camp of
     Pan-Germanism for the colony desired by the Germanic world,
     from which it is but a step to Central Asia. And it was this
     plan that Russia was compelled to combat. Unfortunately, she
     resisted too feebly, and our diplomacy betrayed an extremely
     poor comprehension of Russian problems. Austria's snatching
     appetite was fully revealed in the formula of partition of
     the Peninsula into two spheres of influence: Austria was to
     have Serbia and Bosnia, Russia the Bulgarian provinces of
     the Ottoman Empire. We all know how that ended: Serbia was
     abandoned by Russia at the Berlin Congress, and had no
     choice but to throw herself into the arms of Austria, which
     wrought fearful demoralization in the land. Tens of years
     were required before little, tormented Serbia--which had
     not, nevertheless, lost her freshness of spiritual power
     "found herself," that is to say, turned again to Russia, and
     did not reject her even during the period of the
     persecutions of 1908 which followed. This constituted the
     great service rendered to his people by the King of Serbia,
     Peter. Serbia has not perished, has not fallen into ruin,
     and has shown herself able to endure a war with Turkey, as
     she is now bearing the incredible blows of Austria-Hungary.
     But Bulgaria, which rejected Russia, has been seized in the
     grip of internal disturbances; she stands distracted before
     her Slavonic duty, and knows not whither she must go or why.
     If, at the last moment, she has sufficient sense to find her
     only way of salvation, which is in friendship with Slavdom,
     that, again, will be to the credit of Russia.

     That is why, at the present moment, when the last act of the
     Balkan tragedy, begun long ago, is being played, we can look
     history in the face with calm eyes. Whatever may be formed
     after the end of this war, whether a Slavonic Federation, in
     which Russia could hardly take much interest, since she
     requires, first of all, the concentration of her own forces,
     or a series of independent, separate Slavonic kingdoms, we
     may say that, in having summoned the Slavs to unity, Russia
     has not deceived them, has not led them along a false road
     to destruction.

Italy's Publications in War-Time

Absolutely nothing is published in the Italian papers or reviews concerning military or naval
operations until the result of a given movement is known. Meanwhile, what are Italians reading
and what is the intellectual food given them to sustain the wonderful sentimental enthusiasm
with which they welcomed the war?

Previous to Italy's declaration of war against Austria-Hungary, on May 24, the press in general
dealt with the negotiations between the two Governments from the point of view of domestic
politics, which gave foreigners the impression that Italy was only waiting to receive her price
to remain neutral until the end of the war. Austrian intrigue and dilatoriness were alike criticized.
Little was said about Germany in regard to Italy, although her military methods in Belgium
and northern France, her raids on the defenseless coast towns of England, and her submarine
activities in the War Zone were severely condemned. This censure, however, was entirely academic
and objective. The reviews republished a quantity of English, French, Russian, and even American
articles as to the causes of the war, and the illustrations which accompanied them could hardly
be considered pro-Teutonic. Only the comic press--and this in spite of its augmenting circulation
which should have indicated to observers the sentiment that was elsewhere suppressed--gave
full vent to popular emotion.

The moment war was declared there was a complete change. To be sure the "Green Book" was published
in numerous 20-cent editions and sold by the hundreds of thousands and the closing speeches
of Italian and Austrian diplomats were given in full with comments, yet little time was wasted
with explanations of the failure of the Italo-Austrian negotiations and the meaning of the
Seventh Article of the Triple Alliance. The daily press, the weekly periodicals, and the monthly
reviews suddenly changed their objective expositions of Germany's conduct in regard to others
and began to expound, explain, and elucidate, in an intimate subjective manner, how that conduct
affected Italy.

Austria was almost ignored. The anti-German riots at Milan and other cities, where thousands
of dollars worth of property was systematically destroyed before the authorities could interfere,
showed the volcano that had been lying dormant beneath the surface. Articles which must have
been prepared months before suddenly appeared in the press and reviews showing how Germany
had come to control the banks and steamship lines of the Peninsula and how German capital,
under the guise of promoting Italian enterprises, had laid hold of vast industries whose profits
went to fill the pockets of the Germans; and, worst of all, how the savings of Italian immigrants
in America had gone, through the German-conducted banks, to enrich the same persons without
any contingent benefit to Italians.

Indeed, it almost seemed as though the press and reviews alike had been organized as completely
as had the army and navy for the prosecution of the war with the sole object in view of preventing
Germany ever again from using the Peninsula as a territory for exploitation. The propaganda
for Italia Irredenta suddenly sank into insignificance beside the determination to throw off,
once and for all, the German commercial, industrial, and financial yoke, revealing the abiding
faith of the Italian people that their army would attend to the former as completely as desirable
and without the advice and criticism of civilians. Faith in their King and their army and in
their ultimate success is not a matter for argument among Italians.

Meanwhile, the staffs of all publications, from editors to compositors, have felt the weight
of conscription--sacrifices they enthusiastically make for the common cause. Their pages may
be fewer and some favorite contributors may be heard of no more, but they are sure that the
public will bear with them. On the other hand, a new periodical has sprung into existence called
La Guerra d'Italia nel 1915--The Italian War of 1915--the first number of which has just come
to hand. Its introduction accompanied with several well-made portraits constructs the basis
of Italy's action--how Italy having been tricked through a fancied fear of France and the apparent
unresponsiveness of England into entering the Triple Alliance in 1882, had been forced to remain
there, possibly protected thereby from actual Austrian aggression, but ever a prey to German
exploitation. Then comes an analysis of the Italo-Austrian negotiations, conducted directly
and through Prince von Bülow, the Special German Ambassador in Rome, showing why these negotiations
could not possibly have succeeded. Like the Government itself the new periodical is in no haste
to describe military operations.

The first review to devote almost its entire space to the war was La Vita Internazionale of
Milan. The opening article is by the well-known publicist E.T. Moneta. He begins:

     Without boast but with self-esteem secure, Italy has taken
     her place in the combat among the nations which for ten
     months have been fighting for the liberty of the people and
     the cause of civilization. The enthusiasm with which this
     announcement has been received in France, Russia, and
     England, and especially in martyred Belgium, is enormous.
     For they have all understood what decisive effect our army
     would produce on the destiny of the Great War.

     The fighters for liberty and civilization who have always
     hoped for an ultimate victory, today feel the certainty of
     that hope, and that the duration of the war with the loss of
     millions of other lives will be shortened. For this reason,
     from those governments and people, from their parliaments
     and from their press, from workingmen's societies and from
     institutions of learning there have come to our country warm
     words of admiration and of social unity. All these things
     form an added inspiration for us to do our best to hasten
     the end of this slaughter of men.

Signor Moneta goes on to compliment the diplomacy of Premier Salandra for resigning from office
and thus giving the people the opportunity to show through their demonstrations that they desired
war and to silence once and forever the propaganda of Giolitti who had declaimed in vain that
the people did not want war, as they could secure by negotiations unredeemed Italy--as though
that were all.

Another article is by D. Giuseppe Antonini and is entitled "The German Madness." Its subject,
full of quotations from Treitschke, Nietzsche, and Bernhardi, is not new to Americans. For
Italians it may come as a revelation. It demonstrates the formative influences which have found
expression in what is called "Prussian Militarism," as an attitude of mind which believes in
the supremacy of force over all things--over goodness, virtue, kindness, and all else that
make life worth living. It declares that Prussian Militarism has so possessed all Germans that
not only their moral but their logical point of view has become distorted, so that they behold
nought but virtue in applying science to bring about Mediaeval results. The conflict, he declares,
is between absolutism which pretends to be sufficient unto itself and democracy which receives
its power from the people, and that the latter must win unless centuries of the power, by revolutions
without number, for the benefit of the masses are to end in failure.

Paolo Baccari deals with "The Supreme Duty." He says that the intervention of Italy was not
merely to complete Unification by uniting all Italians of the Peninsula and the Adriatic littoral
under one flag and government, but to register herself as standing for justice, law, and humanity
against organized barbarity, injustice, illegality, and inhumanity, which, if victorious, would
not rest until it had conquered the world. He calls the peace propaganda at this time a "vile
lie of conventionality" because its success could only mean the victory of those forces which
all honest nationalities and persons condemn.

As to the other serious reviews, such as the Nuova Antologia and the Rivista d'Italia, their
June numbers, aside from expounding Italy's relations to Germany, have not gone beyond academic
discussion of the causes of the war and the economic phases as revealed by the budgets of France,
England, and Russia, and the sacrifices that Italy must endure in order to make her a worthy
ally of these countries, all putting forth their greatest efforts in the battle for the world's
salvation.

There are in Italy a large number of popular, well illustrated, monthly magazines, which, taking
it for granted that their readers have already been thoroughly instructed as to the diplomatic
phases of the war, have started a campaign of education in regard to the war itself. There
are articles contrasting the armies of the days of Garibaldi and the great King Victor Emmanuel
with those of the present. There are also articles, historical and descriptive, sociological
and economic, on Trieste, Trent, and other cities of Unredeemed Italy, and historical monographs
showing the bonds that formerly bound Italy to England and to France which have now been cemented
anew, free from all Teutonic influence.

Among the magazines of this class are the Secolo XX, the Noi e il Mondo, and La Lettura; all,
whenever the occasion offers, deal generously and enthusiastically with Italy's allies.

In all this published matter one thing has been revealed since Italy entered the war. Previously
all the Italian writers placed in the same category of contempt the alleged attempts that were
being made to influence Italy by the Central Empires as well as by the Entente Powers and unblushingly
declared that if Italy ever entered the war it would not be for the benefit of one party or
the other but for the benefit of herself alone. Now they frankly confess that the Entente Powers
made no attempt to influence Italy, knowing all the time that when she was ready she would
line up on their side.

Sweden and the Lusitania

By SWEDISH ARTISTS AND PROFESSORS

Stockholm, May 10, 1915.

English people know that the Swedish nation is practically unanimous in supporting the Government
in its policy of strict neutrality. Yet a large section of the people, whether the majority
or not we cannot say, is anything but neutral in their feelings at the methods of warfare which
have been adopted in this terrible war, and have culminated in the sinking of the Lusitania.

The misconception that war suspends all laws of humanity must prove fatal to the future of
civilization and disastrous for that human solidarity that is of such vital interest to the
smaller nations especially.

(Signed)

SVANTE ARRHENIUS, Professor. BARON ADELSWARD. VICTOR ALMQUIST, Chief Director for State Prisons.
W. LECS, Professor. KNUT KJELLBERG, Professor. JULES AKERMAN, Professor. TORGNY SEGERSTEDT,
Professor. ISRAEL HOLMGREN, Professor. G. KOBB, Professor. OTTOR ROSENBERG, Professor. GUNNAR
ANDERSSON, Professor. GERHARD DE GEER, Professor. OLOF KINBERG, M.D. ALFRED PETREN, M.D. JOHN
TJERNELD, barrister. TOR HEDBERG, author. HJALMAR SODERBERG, author. G. STJERNSTEDT, barrister.
IVAN HEDQUIST, actor at Royal Theatre. IVAN BRATT, M.D. T. FOGELQUIST, Rector. MRS. EMILIA
BROOME. MISS SIGNE HEBBA. CHRISTIAN ERIKSEN, sculptor. LUDVIG MOBERG, M.D. KARL NORDSTROM,
artist. NILS KREUGER, artist. ARNOLD JOSEFSON, M.S. CARL ELDH, sculptor. MISS ALMA SUNDQUIST, M.D.

A Threatened Despotism of Spirit

By Gertrude Atherton

     The subjoined article, appearing as a letter to THE NEW YORK
     TIMES, was provoked by the appearance on hundreds of
     billboards in New York of flaring appeals to American women
     that they use their influence to prevent the further
     exportation of arms and munitions to the enemies of Germany.

New York, July 5, 1915.

To the Editor of The New York Times:

As I do not belong to any of the suffrage or other woman's organizations in New York, may I
say in your columns that for the honor of my sex, if for no other reason, I hope the Mayor
will consent to the obliteration of those disingenuous posters addressing "American citizens,"
and so cunningly worded and signed as to produce an impression of representing the women of
the United States? If the people that are spending their thousands so freely had come out frankly
and stated that they were pro-German, and that the success of their propaganda would mean defeat
for the Allies, short of ammunition, and victory for a nation that has nine-tenths of all the
ammunition in Europe, then at least we should have the sheep separated from the goats; we could
put it down to masculine influence over the weaker female vessel, which at least was trying
to be honest, and let it go at that.

But I hold that such a poster, flaring from every billboard, is a defamation of patriotic American
women, and a distinct blow to the cause of suffrage. It will not only antagonize men, who alone
have the power to grant the franchise in those States still obdurate, but disgust thousands
of women not yet won over to the cause, and far too intelligent not to know the precise meaning
behind those lying and hypocritical words. For if that poster were really representative of
American women it would mean that American women were traitors to their country, just as all
pro-German American men, whatever their descent, are traitors, whether they realize it or not.
What was the cause of the roar of indignation that went up all over the United States on Aug.
1? Anti-Germanism? Not a bit of it. If Russia had made the declaration of war the roar would
have been as immediate and as loud. It was the spontaneous protest of the spirit of democracy
against an arrogant autocracy that dared to plunge Europe into war and the world into panic,
without the consent of the people; the manifest of a mediaeval power by an ambitious and unscrupulous
group over millions of industrious, peace-loving men who had nothing to gain and all to lose.

It has been pointed out over and over again how diametrically opposed are the German and American
ideals; therefore, it seems incredible that every American who champions the cause of a powerful
and sublimely egotistic nation does not realize that what he hopes to see is not only the victory
of the German arms in Europe, but the eventual destruction of democracy, the annihilation of
the spirit of America as epitomized in the Declaration of Independence. I have not the least
apprehension of immediate war with Germany, any more than of physical defeat at her hands did
she, with the rest of Europe prostrate, make a raid on our shores; but it seems hardly open
to question that with Europe Prussianized, we, the one heterogeneous race, and always ready
to absorb and imbibe from the parent countries, should lose, in the course of half a century,
our tremendous individual hustle, and gratefully permit a benevolent (and cast iron) despotism
(not unnecessarily of our own make) to do our thinking, perhaps to select our jobs and apportion
our daily tasks.

For that is what it almost amounts to now in Germany, and it is for this reason, no less than
to escape military service, that so many millions of Germans have immigrated to this country.
Unlike the vast majority of the bourgeois and lower classes, a kindly but stupid people, they
were born with an alertness of mind and an energy of character which gave them the impetus
to transfer themselves to a land where life might be harder but where soul and body could attain
to a complete independence. Their present attitude is, however unconsciously, hypocritical,
but it is not altogether as traitorous as that of the American born, who has not the excuse
of that peculiar form of sentimentality which has fermented in Germans at home and abroad during
this period of their Fatherland's peril. It is this curious and wholly German brand of sentimentality
which is the cohering force in the various and extraordinarily clever devices by which modern
Germany has been solidified. It is a sentimentality capable of rising to real exaltation that
no other nation is capable of, and that alone should make the American pro-German pause and
meditate upon a future United States where native individualism was less and less reluctantly
heading for the iron jaws of the Prussianized American machine; and, furthermore, upon the
weird spectacle of the real gladiatorial contest--German sentimentality wrestling in a death
grapple with American downright unpicturesque common sense.

During the seven years that I lived in Munich I learned to like Germany better than any state
in Europe. I liked and admired the German people; I never suffered from an act of rudeness,
and I never was cheated out of a penny. I was not even taxed until the year before I left,
because I made no money out of the country and turned in a considerable amount in the course
of a year. When my maid went to the Rathaus to pay my taxes, (moderate enough,) the official
apologized, saying that he had disliked to send me a bill, but the increased cost of the army
compelled the country to raise money in every way possible. This was in 1908. The only disagreeable
German I met during all those years was my landlord, and as we always dodged each other in
the house or turned an abrupt corner to avoid encounter on the street, we steered clear of
friction. And he was the only landlord I had.

I left Munich with the greatest regret, and up to the moment of the declaration of war I continued
to like Germany better than any country in the world except my own.

The reason I left was significant. I spent, as a rule, seven or eight months in Munich, then
a similar period in the United States, unless I traveled. I always returned to my apartment
with such joy that if I arrived at night I did not go to bed lest I forget in sleep how overjoyed
I was to get back to that stately and picturesque city, so prodigal with every form of artistic
and aesthetic gratification. But that was just the trouble. For as long a time after my return
as it took to write the book I had in mind I worked with the stored American energy I had within
me; then for months and in spite of good resolutions and some self-anathema I did nothing.
What was the use? The beautiful German city so full of artistic delight was made to live in,
not to work in. The entire absence of poverty in that city of half a million inhabitants alone
gave it an air of illusion, gave one the sense of being the guest of a hospitable monarch who
only asked to provide a banquet for all that could appreciate. I look back upon Munich as the
romance of my life, the only place on this globe that came near to satisfying every want of
my nature. And that is the reason why, in a sort of panic, I abruptly pulled up stakes and
left it for good and all. It is not in the true American idea to be too content; it means running
to seed, a weakening of the will and the vital force. If I remained too long in that lovely
land--so admirably governed that I could not have lost myself, or my cat, had I possessed one--I
should in no long course yield utterly to a certain resentfully admitted tendency to dream
and drift and live for pure beauty; finally desert my own country with the comfortable reflection:
Why all this bustle, this desire to excel, to keep in the front rank, to find pleasure in individual
work, when so many artistic achievements are ready-made for all to enjoy without effort? For--here
is the point--an American, the American of today--accustomed to high speed, constant energy,
nervous tenseness, the uncertainty, and the fight, cannot cultivate the leisurely German method,
the almost scientific and impersonal spirit that informs every profession and branch of art.
It is our own way or none for us Americans.

Therefore, if loving Germany as I did, and with only the most enchanting memories of her, I
had not immediately permitted the American spirit to assert itself last August and taken a
hostile and definite stand against the German idea (which includes, by the way, the permanent
subjection of woman) I should have been a traitor, for I knew out of the menace I had felt
to my own future, as bound up with an assured development under insidious influences, what
the future of my country, which stands for the only true progress in the world today, and a
far higher ideal of mortal happiness than the most benevolent paternalism can bestow, had in
store for it, with Germany victorious, and America (always profoundly moved by success owing
to her very practicality) disturbed, but compelled to admire.

The Germans living here, destitute as their race seems to be of psychology when it comes to
judging other races, must know all this; so I say that they are traitors if they have taken
the oath of allegiance to the United States. If they have not, and dream of returning one day
to the fatherland, then I have nothing to say, for there is no better motto for any man than:
"My country, right or wrong."

"Gott Mit Uns"

By C. HUNTINGTON JACOBS

[Harvard Prize Poem]

     Professor Kuno Meyer, of the University of Berlin, resigned
     his incumbency as Visiting Professor at Harvard University
     during the next season because of this poem, which was
     printed in The Harvard Advocate of April 9th, last, and
     won the prize in a competition for poems on the war
     conducted by that publication. This announcement of it
     appeared editorially: "Dean Briggs and Professor Bliss
     Perry, the judges of the Advocate war poem prize
     competition, have awarded the prize to C. Huntington Jacobs,
     1916."

    No doubt ye are the people: Wisdom's flame
      Springs from your cannon--yea from yours alone.
      God needs your dripping lance to prop His throne;
    Your gleeful torch His glory to proclaim.
    No doubt ye are the people: far from shame
      Your Captains who deface the sculptured stone
      Which by the labor and the blood and bone
    Of pious millions calls upon His name.

    No doubt ye are the folk; and 'tis to prove
      Your wardenship of Virtue and of Lore
      Ye sacrifice the Truth in reeking gore
    Upon your altar to the Prince of Love.
      Yet still cry we who still in darkness plod:
      "'Tis Antichrist ye serve and not our God!"

On the Psychology of Neutrals

By Friedrich Curtius

     Friedrich Curtius, of Strassburg, had attained such
     distinction at the beginning of the century that Prince
     Chlodwig of Hohenlohe-Schillingfürst, who succeeded Count
     Caprivi as Chancellor of the German Empire, on his
     retirement in 1900, asked Curtius to co-operate with him in
     the preparation of the Memoirs (New York, The Macmillan
     Co., 1906) which have since become famous. But the joint
     work was brought to a sudden end by Prince Hohenlohe's
     death, and Friedrich Curtius devoted himself, for the next
     six or seven years, to the completion of the unfinished
     task. When the Memoirs were finally published, first in
     America and then in Germany, they were so outspoken as to
     bring down on Prince Alexander Hohenlohe and Friedrich
     Curtius the disfavour of the Kaiser. This article by Curtius
     appeared originally in the Deutsche Revue, May, 1915.

"All the world must hate or love; no choice remains. The Devil is neutral."

So sang Clemens Brentano in the year 1813. Today, we once more realize that the attempt to
remain neutral through a conflict which is deciding the history of the world not only brings
great spiritual difficulties, but is even felt to be a downright moral impossibility, just
as the poet saw it a hundred years ago. Legal neutrality is, of course, a simple thing. Every
state can itself practice it, and impose it as a duty on its citizens. One may even think that
modern states should go further in this direction than they do. The indifference of the Government
toward the business transactions of its citizens with foreign states is a political anomaly,
comprehensible in an age when foreign policy in war and peace was viewed as something that
concerned the ruler only, but contradictory in a democratic age, when wars are peoples' wars.
Today, in all civilized states, the Government is morally answerable for those activities of
its subjects which have international results. The American policy which permits the supply
of weapons to England but allows England to prevent the export of grain to Germany, is a bad
neutrality, morally untenable, a mere passivity, which lacks the will to do right. Such a standpoint
might exist in a despotically governed state, but in a democratic Republic it is incomprehensible.
For, from a genuinely democratic point of view, it does not signify whether the government
or the citizens intervene to help or to hinder in an armed conflict. If we venture to speak
at the right time of the development of international law, this, before all, must be demanded:
that neutral states shall forbid the export of weapons, and that belligerents shall not hinder
the import of foodstuffs for civilian populations.

Meanwhile the insecurity of the international attitude of neutrals is only a symptom of the
difficulties to which neutrality of view is subject. These begin with the outbreak of the war.
Each belligerent government believes itself to be in the right, and publishes a collection
of documents which seem to it fitted to prove this right. This literature appearing in all
the colours of the spectrum is really aimed at neutrals. For the belligerent nations themselves
have weightier matters in hand than to sit in judgment upon their own governments. But the
neutrals find themselves to decide which side is right. Yet this whole idea of a "just war"
(coming to us from the moral philosophy of the Schoolmen) which shall expiate an injustice,
as the judge punishes crimes, is antiquated. When, in the middle ages, the citizens of a town
were maltreated or robbed by the authorities or citizens of another town, and the guilty party
refused satisfaction, then the consequent feud might be viewed as a modified criminal case,
and the right of the wronged town to help itself must be recognized. In exactly the same way,
differences over questions of inheritance between independent states could only be decided
by force, where, as in a civil suit, each party was convinced of its own justice. But the great
wars of our time arise from causes which are different from their immediate occasions, from
opposed interests which can only be decided by discovering which side has the power to enforce
its will. If one wishes to ascribe the blame for a war to one of the parties, one need only
ask which of them pursued an aim which could not be reached through a peaceful understanding.
In the present war, we Germans have clear consciences, for we know, concerning ourselves and
our government, that we strove for nothing but the maintenance of our position as a world-power,
bought with heavy sacrifices, and the free, peaceful expansion of our sphere of action in the
world. On the other hand, Russia desired to get to Constantinople ahead of Berlin and Vienna,
France desired to win back Metz and Strassburg, England desired to destroy our sea-power and
commerce--goals which could only be reached over prostrate Germany. On this understanding,
it would not be difficult for neutrals to arrive at a clear and just judgment. But as the belligerents
themselves did not announce their purposes, but much rather took pains to turn public attention
from the causes to the occasion of the conflict, the judgment of neutrals is affected by this,
and if they are really impartial in their view, they suffer morally under the burden of an
insoluble problem. But if outspoken sympathy draws them toward one of the belligerent powers,
then their judgment is as little objective as that of the belligerents themselves. Their pretended
neutrality gives to their expressions a loathsome Pharisaical aspect, because they come to
a decision according to their opinions as if they stood on a height above the contestants and,
from this lofty standpoint, were holding an anticipated Last Judgment on kings and statesmen.

The same phenomena show themselves with regard to judgments concerning methods of warfare.
It goes without saying that each belligerent party reports all the atrocities which are committed
by its opponents and is silent as to its own shortcomings. Once more, neutrals feel compelled
to form a judgment, and therefore, if they are conscientious, read the reports of both sides,
and, as a result, find themselves in a desperate situation, because it is impossible, from
the assertions and counter-assertions of the belligerents, to ascertain the actual facts of
the case. In practice, mere chance decides which set of reports one comes across. And the exact
proof of details is impossible to the most zealous newspaper-reader. Therefore one's judgment
remains vacillating, and one is likely to come to this conclusion: to believe nothing at all.
Naturally, the case is different here also, if one is previously in sympathy with one party.
Then one believes the reports coming from that side, and leaves out of consideration those
that stand against them. In this case, again, neutrals become as one-sided as belligerents,
without having the indubitable right to be one-sided which the belligerents have.

And finally, in the decisive question, neutrality is excluded. Whatever judgments one may form
as to the cause of the war, and as to methods of waging it, the final outcome is always the
decisive factor. Only a completely demoralized and stupid man can boast, in cynical indifference,
that the result of the war leaves him cold. Where spiritual life functions, wishes and prayers,
hopes and fears, are passionately involved in the course of the mighty conflict. For it is
not a question whether this or that nation shall experience more pleasure or pain, but the
form of all Europe and of the world, for long periods to come, will be fixed by the decision
of this war. That cannot be a matter of indifference for any thinking human being. An equilibrium
of view, a real neutrality is as little possible here as it would have been in the Persian
or Punic wars, or, a hundred years ago, in the revolt of Europe, against the domination of
Napoleon. He who, invoking the neutrality of his state, does not takes sides in this decisive
question, debases himself and his people with him. For to stand indifferent, taking no part
in the mightiest events of history, is a degradation of humanity.

The neutrals in this world-war are, therefore, to be pitied rather than esteemed happy. Either
they are only legally uncommitted, but have, in feeling and thought, taken the side of one
of the belligerent parties: in which case it must weigh heavily on their hearts not to be able
to come out openly for that side and to aid it with all their power; or they hold to neutrality
as a positive political ideal: then the ethical solution of the dark questions of the right
and wrong of the war, and the methods of warfare become a torturing and hopeless problem, and,
in considering the future, the weakness and impracticability of what one has accepted as a
legal precept becomes evident.

If the world-war should last much longer, then neutrality, as such, will probably go bankrupt.
The economic injuries of the war weigh on neutrals as heavily as on belligerents. But they
are far harder to bear when one has nothing to hope from the outcome of the war, when one must
make continued sacrifices in sheer passivity, without knowing why. One would finally fall into
despair, and accept anything that would bring this intolerable condition to an end. We hope
that this extremity will not be reached, but rather that the decision of the war will come
early enough to permit neutrals to preserve their attitude. That this should happen, is the
common interest of mankind. For, in the collective life of civilized nations, neutrals have
their own mission. Just because they share only the sufferings of the war, but do not partake
of its inspiring and exalting forces, they are, of necessity, opponents of war, the providential
mediators of the idea of peace, of international understanding, of the development and strengthening
of international law. They can, during and after the conclusion of peace--if they unite and
go forward with clearly formed ideals--have a notable effect. It will, in part, depend on their
wisdom and firmness, whether it will be possible, within a conceivable time, to heal the deep
wounds of humanity and international comity.

Chlorine Warfare

A Reuter dispatch, dated Amsterdam, June 26, 1915, reports that the "Kölnische Zeitung," in
a semi-official defence of the German employment of gases, says:

"The basic idea of the Hague agreements was to prevent unnecessary cruelty and unnecessary
killing when milder methods of putting the enemy out of action suffice and are possible. From
this standpoint the letting loose of smoke-clouds which, in a gentle wind, move quite slowly
towards the enemy is not only permissible by international law, but is an extraordinarily mild
method of war. It has always been permissible to compel the enemy to evacuate positions by
artificially caused flooding.

"Those who were not indignant, or even surprised, when our enemies in Flanders summoned water
as a weapon against us, have no cause to be indignant when we make air our ally and employ
it to carry stupefying (betäubende) gases against the enemy. What the Hague Convention desired
to prevent was the destruction without chance of escape of human lives en masse, which would
have been the case if shells with poisonous gas were rained down on a defenceless enemy who
did not see them coming and was exposed to them irremediably. The changing forms of warfare
make new methods of war continually necessary."

Rheims Cathedral

By Pierre Loti

     This article by Pierre Loti (Captain Viaud) originally
     appeared in L'Illustration as the last of a series of three
     entitled "Visions of the Battle Front," and is translated
     for THE NEW YORK TIMES CURRENT HISTORY by Charles Johnston.

To see it, our legendary and marvellous French basilica, to bid it farewell, before its fall
and irremediable crumbling to dust, I had made my military auto make a detour of two hours
on my return from completing a service mission.

The October morning was foggy and cold. The hillsides of Champagne were on that day deserted;
with their vines with leaves of blackened brown, damp with rain, they seemed all clad in a
sort of shining leather. We had also passed through a forest, keeping our eyes alert, our weapons
ready, for the possibility of marauding Uhlans. And at last we had perceived the immense form
of a church, far off in the mist, rising in all its great height above the plots of reddish
squares, which must be the roofs of houses; evidently that was it.

The entrance to Rheims: defences of every kind, barriers of stone, trenches, spiked fences,
sentinels with crossed bayonets. To pass, the uniform and accoutrements of a soldier are not
enough. We must answer questions, give the pass-words....

In the great city, which I had not visited before, I ask the way to the cathedral, for it is
no longer visible; its silhouette which, seen from a distance, so completely dominates everything,
as a giant's castle might dominate the dwellings of dwarfs, its high gray silhouette seems
to have bent down to hide itself. "The cathedral," the people reply, "at first straight on;
then you must turn to the left, then to the right, and so on." And my auto plunges into the
crowded streets. Many soldiers, regiments on the march, files of ambulance wagons; but also
many chance passers-by, no more concerned than if nothing was happening; even many well-dressed
women with prayer-books in their hands, for it is Sunday.

Where two streets cross, there is a crowd before a house, the walls of which have been freshly
scratched; a shell fell there, just now, without any useful result, as without any excuse.
A mere brutal jest, to say: "You know, we are here!" A mere game, a question of killing a few
people, choosing Sunday morning because there are more people in the streets. But, in truth,
one would say that this city has completely made up its mind to being under the savage field-glasses
ambushed on the neighboring hillsides; these passers-by stop a minute to look at the wall,
the marks of the bits of iron, and then quietly continue their Sunday walk. This time it was
some women, they tell us, and little girls that this neat jest laid low in pools of blood;
they tell us that; and they think no more of it, as if it were a very small thing in days like
these.... Now the district becomes deserted; closed houses, a silence, as of mourning. And
at the end of a street, the great gray doors appear, the high pointed arches marvellously chiseled,
the high towers. Not a sound, and not a living soul on the square where the phantom basilica
still sits enthroned, and an icy wind blows there, under an opaque sky.

It still keeps its place as by a miracle, the basilica of Rheims, but so riddled and torn that
one divines that it is ready to founder at the slightest shock; it gives the impression of
a great mummy, still upright and majestic, but which a mere nothing will turn to ashes. The
ground is strewn with precious relics of it. It has been hurriedly surrounded with a solid
barrier of white boards, within which its holy dust has formed heaps: fragments of rose-windows,
broken piles of stained glass, heads of angels, the joined hands of saints. From the top of
the tower to the base, the charred stone has taken on a strange color of cooked flesh, and
the holy personages, still upright in rows on the cornices, have been peeled, as it were, by
the fire; they no longer have faces or fingers, and, with their human forms, which still persist,
they look like the dead drawn up in files, their contours vaguely indicated under a sort of
reddish grave-clothes.

We make the circuit of the square without meeting anyone, and the barrier which isolates the
fragile and still admirable phantom is everywhere solidly closed. As for the old palace adjoining
the basilica, the episcopal palace where the kings of France came to rest on the day of their
consecration, it is no longer anything more than a ruin, without windows or roof, everywhere
licked and blackened by the flame.

What a peerless jewel it was, this cathedral, still more beautiful than Notre Dame in Paris.
More open and lighter, more slender also, with its columns like long reeds, wonderful to be
so fragile, and yet to hold firm; a wonder of our French religious art, a masterpiece which
the faith of our ancestors had caused to blossom there in its mystic purity, before they came
to us from Italy, to materialize and spoil everything, the sensual heaviness of what we have
agreed to call the Renaissance....

Oh! the coarse and cowardly and imbecile brutality of those bundles of iron, launched in full
flight against the lace-work, so delicate, that had risen confidently in the air for centuries,
and which so many battles, invasions, scourges have never dared to touch!...

That great closed house, there, on the square, must be the Archbishop's residence. I try ringing
the bell at the entrance to ask the favor of admission to the cathedral. "His Eminence," I
am told, "is at mass, but will soon return." If I am willing to wait.... And, while I wait,
the priest who receives me relates to me the burning of the episcopal palace: "Beforehand,
they had sprinkled the roofs with I know not what diabolical substance; when they then threw
their incendiary bombs, the timbers burned like straw, and you saw everywhere jets of green
flame, which spread with the noise of fireworks."

In fact, the barbarians had premeditated this sacrilege, and prepared it long ago; in spite
of their foolishly absurd pretexts, in spite of their shameless denials, what they wished to
destroy here was the very heart of old France; some superstitious fancy drove them to it, as
much as their instinct of savages, and this is the task they plunged into desperately, when
nothing else in the city, or almost nothing, suffered.

"Could not an effort be made," I said, "to replace the burned roof of the cathedral?--to cover
the vaulted roofs again as quickly as possible? For without this they cannot resist the coming
winter."

"Evidently," he said, "at the first snows, at the first rains, there is a risk that everything
will fall, the more so, as those charred stones have lost their power of resistance. But we
cannot even try that, to preserve them a little, for the Germans never take their eyes off
us; at the end of their field-glasses, it is the cathedral, always the cathedral; and as soon
as a man ventures to appear on a turret, in a tower, the rain of shells immediately begins
again. No, there is nothing to be done. It is in the hands of God."

Returning, the prelate graciously gives me a guide, who has the keys of the barrier, and at
last I penetrate into the ruins of the cathedral, into the denuded nave, which thus appears
still higher and more immense. It is cold there; it is sad enough to make one weep. This unexpected
cold, this cold much keener than outside, is, perhaps, what from the first takes hold of you,
disconcerts you; instead of the slightly heavy odor which generally fills ancient churches--the
vapor of so much incense that has been burned there, the emanations of so many coffins that
have been blessed there, of so many generations of men that have crowded there, for agony and
prayer--instead of this, a damp and icy wind, which enters rustling through all the crevices
of the walls, through the breaches in the stained glass windows and the holes in the vaulted
ceilings. Those vaulted roofs, up there, here and there smashed by grapeshot--one's eyes are
immediately lifted up by instinct to look at them, one's eyes are, as it were, drawn to them
by the up-springing of all these columns, as slender as reeds, which rise in sheaves to sustain
them; they have retreating curves of exquisite grace, which seem to have been imagined, so
as not to allow the glances sent heavenward to fall back again. One never grows weary of bending
one's head back in order to see them, to see the sacred roofs which are about to fall into
nothingness; and they are up there also, far up, the long series of almost aerial pointed arches,
on which they are supported, pointed arches indefinitely alike from one end of the nave to
the other, and which, in spite of their complicated carvings, are restful to follow in their
retreating perspective, so harmonious are they.

And it is better to go forward beneath them with raised head, not too carefully looking where
one walks, for this pavement, rather sadly sonorous, has recently been soiled and blackened
by the charring of human flesh. It is known that, on the day of the fire, the cathedral was
full of German wounded, stretched on straw beds which caught fire, and it became a scene of
horror worthy of a dream of Dante; all these creatures, whose raw wounds were baked in the
flames, dragging themselves, screaming, on their red stumps, to try to reach the narrow doors.
One knows also the heroism of the ambulance bearers, priests and nuns, risking their lives
in the midst of the bombs, to try to save these hapless brutes, whom their own brother Germans
had not even thought of sparing; however, they did not succeed in saving them all; some remained,
and were burned to death in the nave, leaving foul clots on the sacred flagstones, where of
old processions of kings and queens slowly dragged their ermine mantles, to the music of the
great organ and the Gregorian chants....

"Look!" says my guide to me, showing me a large hole in one of the aisles, "that is the work
of a shell which they fired at us yesterday evening; then come and see a miracle." And he leads
me into the choir, where the statue of Jeanne d'Arc, preserved, one would say, by some special
grace, is still there, intact, with eyes of gentle ecstasy.

The most irreparable loss is that of the great stained glass windows, which the mysterious
artists of the thirteenth century so religiously composed, in meditation and dream, gathering
the saints by hundreds, with their translucent draperies, their luminous halos. There also
German scrap-iron rushed in great stupid bundles, crushing everything. The masterpieces, which
no one will ever reproduce, have scattered their fragments on the flagstones, forever impossible
to separate, the golds, the reds, the blues, whose secret is lost. Ended, the rainbow transparencies,
ended, the graceful, naïve attitudes of all these holy people, with their pale little ecstatic
faces; the thousands of precious fragments of these stained glass windows which, in the course
of centuries, had little by little become iris-tinted like opals, are lying on the ground--where
they still shine like jewels....

A whole splendid cycle of our history, which seemed to go on living in this sanctuary, with
a life almost terrestrial, though immaterial, has just been plunged suddenly into the abyss
of things that are ended, whose very memory will soon perish. The Great Barbarity has passed
by, the modern barbarism from beyond the Rhine, a thousand times worse than the ancient, because
it is stupidly and outrageously self-satisfied, and, in consequence, fundamental, incurable,
final--destined, if it be not crushed, to throw a sinister night of eclipse over the world....

Verily, this Jeanne d'Arc in the choir has very strangely remained, untouched, immaculate,
in the midst of the disorder, with not even the slightest scratch on her dress....

The English Falsehood

By Sven Hedin

     Early in the war Sven Hedin, the Swedish explorer and
     writer, visited the German front to see the world-war at
     first hand. "A People in Arms," published in Leipzig and
     dedicated to the German soldiers, is the result. A preface
     proclaims the author's neutrality as a Swede and announces
     that he "swears before God that I have written not a line
     which is not the truth and have depicted nothing which I
     have not witnessed with my own eyes." This article is one of
     his concluding sketches.

I should like to have seen how the troops of India stood the raw autumn in Artois and Flanders.
But the Indian prisoners at Lille were transferred to the East in order to make room for fresh
contingents. I, myself, have experienced the difficulty of transplanting Indians to a colder
climate. On my last journey to Tibet I had two Kadschputs from Cashmere with me. When we got
into the mountains they nearly froze to death, and my caravan leader, Muhamed Isa, declared
they would be about as useful as puppies. I had to send them back. The same thing happened
to me with my Indian cook; outside India he was absolutely useless. In Tibet they live on meat,
in India on vegetables. How could he stand so sudden a change of both climate and diet!

Now the press has been claiming that the English have ordered a full contingent from India
to Europe. I found it hard to believe but at the front I learned that it was true. "How do
you treat the Indian soldiers?" I once asked a couple of officers. "We just arrest them," answered
one, and the other added: "We don't need to do even that; they will soon die in the trenches."

When I admit that I myself made a stupid blunder in thinking that Indians could do service
in Tibet, I am justified in claiming that Lord Charles Beresford made ten times as stupid a
blunder when he expressed the hope of seeing "Indian lances roaming the streets of Berlin and
the little brown Gurkas making themselves comfortable in the park of Sans Souci."

But the import of Indian troops is more than a stupid blunder--it is a crime!

For almost a century and a half Great Britain has performed the shining mission of acting as
India's guardian; no other people probably could successfully carry through so gigantic a task.
Indian troops have fought with honor against their neighbors, and, moreover have assisted in
maintaining order among the 300 millions of their people.

But never has it occurred to an English government as now to the Liberal government, to oppose
black infidels to Christian Europeans! That is a crime against culture, against civilization
and against Christianity. And if the English missionaries approve it, then are they hypocrites
and false bearers of the Gospel.

India's English rulers despise--and rightfully--all marital relations between whites and Hindoos;
the children of such marriages are regarded as mules, and are often called such; they are neither
horse nor ass, they are half caste. In Calcutta they have their own quarter and are allowed
to live in no other part of the city. But--when it comes to the question of overthrowing the
"German barbarians," then an alliance with the bronze-skinned people is good enough for England!

Is it one of the twentieth century's worthy advances in culture and civilization that the unsuspecting
Indian is brought hundreds of miles over land and sea that he may on the battlefields of Europe
drive to destruction the first soldiers of the world, the German army? Even though some may
answer this question in the affirmative, I hold unshaken to my assertion that such a course
of action is the very height of frightfulness! Not frightful to the German soldiers, for I
know what sort of feeling the Indian fighters have for them--respect and sympathy!

And we aren't much nearer that "roaming about in the streets of Berlin," and the lindens of
Sans Souci are not yet waving above the warriors from the slopes of the Himalayas.

What must these Indian troops think of their white masters? That the future will show. Whoever
has seen something of the land of a thousand legends, who has ridden over the crests of the
Himalayas, who has dreamed in the moonlight before the Taj Mahal, who has seen the holy Ganges
slip gray and soft past the wharves of Benares, who has been entranced by the train of elephants
under the mango trees of Dekkan--in short, whoever has loved India and admired the order and
security which prevails there under the English rule, he will need no very powerful imagination
to understand with what thoughts the Indian soldiers will go back, and with what feelings their
families and their fellow countrymen in the little narrow huts on the slopes of the Himalayas
will listen to their accounts. Only with a shudder can we think of this, for it must be said
that here a crime against civilization and Christianity has been done in the name of civilization.

The question cannot be suppressed: Will the Indian contingent really be used? Will not the
white millions of Great Britain, Canada and Australia suffice, to say nothing of the French,
Belgians, Russians, Serbians, Montenegrins and Japanese? Apparently not. In The Times of September
5th appears in large letters: The need for more men. Already they are in need of more people
to overthrow the Kultur of the "German barbarians"! The English people must be educated by
a special method in order to understand both the cause and the aim of this war. Otherwise the
Englishman will stay at home and play, football and cricket.

And what is this education of the people? In regard to this the English press informs us daily.
It is a systematic lie! The fatal reality, that England is slowly sliding to catastrophe, must
be hidden by a strict censorship. The English people has no suspicion of Hindenburg's victories.
The development of the German operations in Poland is translated into a victorious move of
the Russians on Berlin! The most shameful slander concerning the Kaiser is spread abroad! The
Germans are barbarians who must be annihilated, and the civilized peoples of Servia, Senegambia
and Portugal must take part in this praiseworthy undertaking!

England carries on this war with a perversion of the truth, and truth is as rare in the English
press as lies in the German.

But do the people really believe what they read in the English newspapers? Yes, blindly! I
have been convinced of this by letters received from England. An appeal signed by many scholars--among
them several Nobel prize winners--and sent to me, closes with the words:

     We regret deeply that under the unwholesome influence of a
     military system and its unrestrained dreams of domination,
     the country which we have once honored now has become
     Europe's common enemy and the enemy of all people who
     respect the rights of nations. We must carry to an end this
     war which we have entered. For us as for the Belgians it is
     a war of defense, which will be fought through for peace and
     freedom.

The old story of the splinter and the beam! Is England's rule of the sea no military system
then? Can there be conceived a more far-reaching militarism than that which stretches out its
conquests over five continents? Which even clutches at the straw which republican Portugal
holds out and announces "the need for more men" in the newspapers?

What was the Boer War then? An expression perhaps of this same humane solicitude for the small
states which now causes England to break the lance for Belgium's independence?

It would be useless at this late day to attempt to determine what would have been the course
of the great war had England stayed out of it. But this much is certain, that Belgium's loss
of independence would have lasted only until the conclusion of peace. The war would then not
have grown as now to be a world-war--to be the greatest and most tragic catastrophe which the
human race has ever suffered. No nation has ever incurred a greater, a more comprehensive responsibility
than England! And one can only regret most deeply that these men will have to bear now and
in the world to come the full and oppressive burden of that responsibility.

Calais or Suez?

Which Should be Germany's Objective?

By special cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES from London on July 1, 1915, came the following information:

Count von Reventlow, in last Sunday's Deutsche Tageszeitung, explains the importance and meaning
of Calais as a German objective in the west and as a key to the destruction of the British
Empire. Dr. Ernst Jaeckh, in an article called "Calais or Suez," maintained that if an English
statesman had to make a choice he would undoubtedly give up Calais and cling to Suez rather
than give up Suez and control Calais. Reventlow maintains there is no reality about this alternative.

About the importance of Suez, Jaeckh and Reventlow are agreed. Reventlow for his part declares
England's main interest in the Dardanelles operations is the desire to protect Egypt and that
this is the explanation of all her efforts to range the Balkan countries against Austria-Hungary,
Germany, and Turkey. As translated in THE TIMES he proceeds:

"These efforts are not yet at an end, and they will be continued with a desperate expenditure
of strength and all possible means. It was believed that the Russian armies and influence exercised
upon the Balkan peoples would make Egypt safe. These hopes are now tottering or vanishing.
All the greater must be the energy of our triple alliance in order completely to clear the
way and then at the proper moment to take it with firm determination to see the thing through.
Here also we see the correctness of our old argument, that for Germany and her allies success
lies in a long war and that time works for them if they employ the time in working. Our forces
are increasing with time and, as has been said, Germany has the assured possibility of gaining
time. To strike our chief enemy at a vital point is worth the greatest efforts and sacrifice
of time, quite apart from the fact that we owe it to the Turkish Empire to assist with all
our strength in restoring Egypt, which was stolen by England."

Reventlow then says that a comparison of "the Calais idea" with Suez is as idle as the comparison
of a chair with a table. He says Jaeckh is mistaken in supposing Calais does not concern more
than the south coast of England or that it merely threatens one of many ways to and from England.
Reventlow says:

"This by no means completes the Calais idea. From a military or political or economic point
of view one should look at the matter with the eyes of Great Britain and define the Calais
idea as a possibility for a seafaring continental power to conduct a war against Great Britain
from the continental coast channel and with all military resources while holding open communication
between the Atlantic Ocean and the North Sea."

Note on the Principle of Nationality

By John Galsworthy

     This article, dealing with the consequences of the war,
     originally appeared in La Revue of Paris, and is here
     reproduced by permission of Mr. Galsworthy.

In these times one dread lies heavy on heart and brain--the thought that after all the unimaginable
suffering, waste, and sacrifice of this war, nothing may come of it, no real relief, no permanent
benefit to Europe, no improvement to the future of mankind.

The pronouncements of publicists--"This must never happen again," "Conditions for abiding peace
must be secured," "The United States of Europe must be founded," "Militarism must cease"--all
such are the natural outcome of this dread. They are proclamations admirable in sentiment and
intention. But human nature being what it has been and is likely to remain, we must face the
possibility that nothing will come of the war, save the restoration of Belgium, (that, at least,
is certain;) some alterations of boundaries; a long period of economic and social trouble more
bitter than before; a sweeping moral reaction after too great effort. Cosmically regarded,
this war is a debauch rather than a purge, and debauches have always to be paid for.

Confronting the situation in this spirit, we shall be the more rejoiced if any of our wider
hopes should by good fortune be attained.

Leaving aside the restoration of Belgium--for what do we continue to fight? We go on, as we
began, because we all believe in our own countries and what they stand for. And in considering
how far the principle of nationality should be exalted, one must well remember that it is in
the main responsible for the present state of things. In truth, the principle of nationality
of itself and by itself is a quite insufficient ideal. It is a mere glorification of self in
a world full of other selves; and only of value in so far as it forms part of that larger ideal,
an--international ethic, which admits the claims and respects the aspirations of all nations.
Without that ethic little nations are (as at the present moment) the prey--and, according to
the mere principle of nationality, the legitimate prey--of bigger nations. Germany absorbed
Alsace-Lorraine, Schleswig, and now Belgium, by virtue of nationalism, of an overweening belief
in the perfection of its national self. Austria would subdue Serbia from much the same feeling.
France does not wish to absorb or subdue any European people of another race, because France,
as ever, a little in advance of her age, is already grounded in this international ethic, of
unshakable respect for the rights of all nations which belong, roughly speaking, to the same
stage of development. The same may be said of the other western democratic powers, Britain
and America. "To live and let live," "to dwell together in unity," are the guiding maxims of
the international ethic, by virtue of which alone have the smaller communities of men--the
Belgiums, Bohemias, Polands, Serbias, Denmarks, Switzerlands of Europe--any chance of security
in the maintenance of their national existences. In short the principle of nationality, unless
it is prepared to serve this international ethic, is but a frank abettor of the devilish maxim,
"Might is right." All this is truism; but truisms are often the first things we forget.

The whole question of nationality in Europe bristles with difficulties. It cannot be solved
by theory and rule of thumb. What is a nation? Shall it be determined by speech, by blood,
by geographical boundary, by historic tradition? The freedom and independence of a country
can and ever should be assured when with one voice it demands the same. It is seldom as easy
as all that. Belgium, no doubt, is as one man. Poland is as one man in so far as the Poles
are concerned; but what of the Austrians, Russians, Germans settled among them? What of Ireland
split into two camps? What of the Germans in Bohemia, in Alsace, in Schleswig-Holstein? Compromise
alone is possible in many cases, going by favor of majority. And there will always remain the
poignant question of the rights and aspirations of minorities. Let us by all means clear the
air by righting glaring wrongs, removing palpable anomalies, redressing obvious injustices,
securing so far as possible the independent national life of homogeneous groups; but let us
not, dazzled by the glamour of a word, dream that by restoring a few landmarks, altering a
few boundaries, and raising a pæan to the word Nationality, we can banish all clouds from the
sky of Europe, and muzzle the ambitions of the stronger nations.

In my convinced belief the one solid hope for future peace, the one promise of security for
the rights and freedom of little countries, the one reasonable guarantee of international justice
and general humanity, lies in the gradual growth of democracy, of rule by consent of the governed.
When this has spread till the civilization of the Western world is on one plane--instead of
as now on two--then and then only we shall begin to draw the breath of assurance. Then only
will the little countries sleep quietly in their beds. It is conceivable, nay probable, that
the despotic will of a perfect man could achieve more good for his country and for the world
at large in a given time than the rule of the most enlightened democracy. It is certain that
such men occupy the thrones of this earth but once in a blue moon.

If proof be needed that the prevalence of democracy alone can end aggression among nations,
secure the rights of small peoples, foster justice and humaneness in man--let the history of
this last century and a half be well examined, and let the human probabilities be weighed.
Which is the more likely to advocate wars of aggression? They, who by age, position, wealth,
are secure against the daily pressure of life and the sacrifice that war entails, they who
have passed their time out of touch with the struggle for existence, in an atmosphere of dreams,
ambitions, and power over other men? Or they, who every hour are reminded how hard life is,
even at its most prosperous moments, who have nothing to gain by war, and all, even life, to
lose; who by virtue of their own struggles have a deep knowledge of, a certain dumb sympathy
with, the struggles of their fellow-creatures; an instinctive repugnance to making those struggles
harder; who have heard little and dreamed less of those so-called "national interests," that
are so often mere chimeras; who love, no doubt, in their inarticulate way the country where
they were born, and the modes of life and thought to which they are accustomed, but know of
no traditional and artificial reasons why the men of other countries should not be allowed
to love their own land and modes of thought and life in equal peace and security?

Assuredly, the latter of these two kinds of men are the less likely to favor ambitious projects
and aggressive wars. According as "the people" have or have not the final decision in such
matters, the future of Europe will be made of war or peace; of respect or of disregard for
the rights of little nations. It is advanced against democracies that the workers of a country,
ignorant and provincial in outlook, have no grasp of international politics. This is true in
Europe where national ambitions and dreams are still for the most part hatched and nurtured
in nests perched high above the real needs and sentiments of the simple working folk who form
nine-tenths of the population of each country. But once those nests of aggressive nationalism
have fallen from their high trees, so soon as all Europe conforms to the principle of rule
by consent of the governed, it will be found--as it has been already found in France--that
the general sense of the community informed by an ever-growing publicity (through means of
communication ever speeding-up) is quite sufficient trustee of national safety; quite able,
even enthusiastically able, to defend its country from attack. The problem before the world
at the end of this war is how to eliminate the virus of an aggressive nationalism that will
lead to fresh outbursts of death. It is a problem that I, for one, frankly believe will beat
the powers and goodwill of all, unless there should come a radical change of Governments in
Central Europe; unless the real power in Germany and Austria-Hungary passes into the hands
of the people of those countries, as already it has passed in France and Britain. This is in
my belief the only chance for the defeat of militarism, of that raw nationalism, which, even
if beaten down at first, will ever be lying in wait, preparing secret revenge and fresh attacks.

How this democratization of Central Europe can be brought about I cannot tell. It is far off
as yet. But if this be not at last the outcome of the war, we may still talk in vain of the
rights of little nations, of peace, disarmament, of chivalry, justice, and humanity. We may
whistle for a changed world.

JOHN GALSWORTHY.

Singer of "La Marseillaise"

By H.T. SUDDUTH

     [The body of Claude Joseph Rouget de Lisle, who composed
     "The Marseillaise," was placed, on July 15, 1915, in the
     Hôtel des Invalides, Paris.]

    Up from the land of fair Provence,
      Land of the vineyard and olive green,
    Flushed with a new hope's radiance
      Glow of glorious visions seen,
    Joyous Marseilles' Battalion came,
    Singing a song since known to fame.

    List as the drums the quickstep beat!
      List to the Chant of Liberty!
    Ringing through dawn or noonday heat--
      "Allons enfants de la Patrie!"
    List to the chant on the dusty way,
    "Death to the tyrant! Vive le Marseillais!"

    Orchards and vineyards caught up the song,
      France seemed but waiting that martial lay,
    Born of poet's heart-beats strong!
      Sung by the sons of the South that day,
    Voicing the hero-soul of strife,
    Marching song of a nation's life!

    Days of Terror that chant ushered in,
      Falling of thrones and baubles and crowns--
    Bastille walls and guillotine,
      Sack of Tuileries, Temple frowns.
    Heard that Chant of the Marseillais,
    "Le jour de gloire est arrivé."

    Reds of the Midi! The song you sung
      Thrilled the hearts of all who heard!
    Song of a people with hearts tense-strung,
      Rhythm that every pulse quick stirred!
    Echoes that song as France now pays
    Honor to singer of "La Marseillaise!"

Depression--Common-Sense and the Situation

By Arnold Bennett

Copyright, 1915, by Arnold Bennett

     The pessimistic attitude toward the military situation
     assumed by a large part of British society, after the
     arrival of warm weather, without the heralded concerted
     advance of the Allies in France and Belgium, is dealt with
     by Mr. Bennett in the subjoined article, which appeared in
     the London Daily News of June 16, 1915. It is here
     reproduced by Mr. Bennett's express permission.

In a recent article I said that for reasons discoverable and undiscoverable the military situation
had been of late considerably falsified in the greater part of the Press. This saying (which
by the way was later confirmed by the best military experts writing in the Press) aroused criticism
both public and private. That it should have been criticised in certain organs was natural,
for these organs had certainly been colouring or manipulating their war news, including casualties,
chiefly by headlines and type, and even influencing their expert analysis of war-news, to suit
what happened to be at the moment their political aims.

Even the invasion scare was last week revived by the "Daily Mail" as an aid to compulsion.
The "Daily Mail" asserted that, whatever we might say, invasion was possible. True. It is.
Most things are. But invasion is responsibly held to be so wildly improbable that our military,
as distinguished from our naval, plans are permitted practically to ignore the possibility.
Compulsion or no compulsion, those plans will be the same. They will be unaffected by any amount
of invasion-scaring, and therefore to try to foster pessimism in the public by alarums about
invasion is both silly and naughty.

Newspapers quite apart, however, there has been in the country a considerable amount of pessimism
which I have not been able to understand, much less sympathise with; pessimism of the kind
that refuses to envisage the future at all. It has not said: "We shall be beaten." But it has
groaned and looked gloomy, and asked mute questions with its eyes. It has resented confident
faith and demanded with sardonic superiority the reasons for such faith.

Of the tribe of pessimists I count some superlative specimens among my immediate acquaintances.
The explanation of their cases is, I contend, threefold. First, they lack faith, not merely
in the Allied arms, but in anything. They have not the faculty of faith. Secondly, they unconsciously
enjoy depression, and this instinct distorts all phenomena for them. Thus they exhibited no
satisfaction whatever at the capture of Przemysl full of men and munitions by the Russians,
whereas the recapture of Przemysl empty of men and munitions by the Germans filled them with
delicious woe. Thirdly, they lack patience, and therefore a long-sustained effort gets on their
nerves. Others I can inoculate with my optimism, but the effect passes quickly, and each succeeding
reinoculation has been less and less effective, with the monotonous questioning, ever more
sardonic in tone: "How can you be deluded by the official bulletins?" or: "What do you know
about war, to make you so cocksure?"

The truth is that I am not deluded by the official bulletins. I don't know how long it is since
I learnt to appreciate official bulletins at their true value, but it is a long while ago.
A full perception of the delusiveness of official bulletins can only be obtained by reading
histories of the war. The latest I have read are those of Mr. John Buchan and Mr. Hillaire
Belloc. (Mr. Buchan's is good. Mr. Belloc's is more than good: it is--apart from a few failures
in style, due either to fatigue or to the machinery of dictation--absolutely brilliant, both
militarily and politically. I am inclined to rate the last dozen pages of Mr. Belloc's book
as the finest piece of writing yet produced by the war.) And when one compares, in these works,
the coherent, impartial, and convincing accounts of, say, the first month of the war, with
the official bulletins of the Allies during that month, one marvels that even officialism could
go so far in evasion and duplicity, and the reputation of official bulletins is ruined for
the whole duration of the conflict. No wonder the contents of the Allied newspapers in that
period inspired the Germans with a scornful incredulity, which nothing that has since happened
can shake.

It is not that official bulletins are incorrect; they are incomplete, and, therefore, misleading.
The policy which frames them seems now to be utterly established, but my motion that it is
a mistaken policy remains unaltered. When the policy is pushed as far as the suppression of
isolated misfortunes which flame in the headlines of the enemy Press from Cologne to Constantinople,
then I begin to wonder whether I am living in three dimensions or in four.

If, then, he does not rely on the official bulletins, and he has no military expertise, how
is the civilian justified in being optimistic? The reply is that the use of his common-sense
may justify his optimism. The realm of common-sense being universal, even war comes within
it. And the fact is that the major aspects of the war are no more military than they are political,
social, and psychological. Take one of the most important aspects--the character of generals.
It cannot be denied that after ten months, confidence in Joffre has increased. At the beginning
of the war, when the German plan was being exactly followed and was succeeding, when the Germans
had an immense advantage of numbers, when their reserves of men and munitions were untouched,
when everything was against us, and everything in favour of the Germans, Joffre, aided by the
British, defeated the Germans. He defeated them by superior generalship. Common-sense says
that now, when the boot is on the other leg, Joffre will assuredly defeat the Germans--and
decisively, and common-sense is quite prepared to wait until Joffre is ready. Again, take the
case of the Grand Duke. The Grand Duke has shown over and over again that he is an extremely
brilliant general of the first order. In the very worst days, when everything was against him
and everything in favour of the Germans, as in the West, he held his own and he has continually
produced many more casualties in the German ranks than the Germans have produced in his ranks.
He still has many things against him, but it is not possible reasonably to believe that the
Grand Duke will let himself in for a disaster. That he should avoid a disaster is all that
the West front demands of him at present.

On the other side, General von Moltke, head of the German Great General Staff, has been superseded.
What German General has advanced in reputation? There is only one answer--von Hindenberg. Von
Hindenberg won the largest (not the most important) victory of the war in the Battle of Tannenberg.
He won it because the ground was exceedingly difficult, and because he knew the ground far
better than any other man on earth. He was entitled to very high credit. He got it. He became
the idol of the German populace, and the bugbear of the Allied countries. But he has done nothing
since. Soon after Tannenberg he made a fool of himself on the Russian frontier, and showed
that success had got into his head. He subsequently initiated several terrific attempts, all
of which were excessively costly and none of which was carried through. If he has not ceased
to be an idol, he has at any rate ceased to be a bugbear.

As for the average intelligence of the opposing forces, it may be said that Prussian prestige,
though it dies very slowly, is dying, even in the minds of our pessimists. Their zest for elaborate
organization of plan gave the Germans an immense advantage at the start, but it is proved that,
once the plan has gone wrong, they are at the best not better in warfare than ourselves. Their
zest for discipline, and their reserves, have enabled them to stave off a catastrophe longer
than perhaps any other nation could have staved it off. But time is now showing that excessive
discipline and organization produce defects which ultimately outweigh the qualities they spring
from. The tenacity of the Germans is remarkable, but does it surpass ours? Man for man, a soldier
of the Allies is better than a soldier of the Central Powers--or ten thousand observers have
been deceived. As for the intelligence of the publics upon whose moral the opposing forces
ultimately depend, it is undeniable that the German public is extremely hysterical, and far
more gullible even than ourselves at our very worst. The legends believed by the German public
today are ridiculous enough to stamp Germany for a century as an arch-simpleton among nations.
Its vanity is stupendous, eclipsing all previously known vanities. The Great General Staff
must know fairly well how matters stand, and yet not the mere ignorant public, but the King
of Bavaria himself, had the fatuity as late as last week to talk about the new territory that
Germany would annex as a result of the war!

In numbers we in the West had got the better of them, and were slowly increasing our lead,
before Italy, by joining us, increased the Allies' advantage at a stroke by over three-quarters
of a million fully mobilised men, and much more than as many reserves.

In financial resources there is simply no comparison between the enemy and ourselves. We are
right out of sight of the enemy in this fundamental affair.

We lack nothing--neither leading, nor brains, nor numbers, nor money--save ammunition. Does
any pessimist intend to argue that we shall not get all the ammunition we need? It is inconceivable
that we should not get it. When we have got it the end can be foretold like the answer to a
mathematical problem.

Lastly, while the Germans have nothing to hope for in the way of further help, we have much
to hope for. We have, for example, Rumania to hope for; and other things needless to mention.
And we have in hand enterprises whose sudden development might completely change the face of
the war in a few hours; but whose failure would not prejudice our main business, because our
main business is planned and nourished independently of them. One of these enterprises is known
to all men. The other is not. The Germans have no such enterprises in hand.

For all the foregoing argument no military expertise is necessary. It lies on a plane above
military expertise. It appeals to common-sense and it cannot be gainsaid. I have not yet met
anybody of real authority who has attempted to gainsay it, or who has not endorsed it. The
sole question is, not whether we shall win or lose, but when we shall win.

For this reason I strongly object to statesmen, no matter who they be, going about and asserting
to listening multitudes that we are fighting for our very existence as a nation. We most emphatically
are not. It is just conceivable that certain unscrupulous marplots might by chicane produce
such domestic discord in this country as would undermine the very basis of victory. I regard
the thing as in the very highest degree improbable, but it can be conceived. The result might
be an inconclusive peace, and another war, say, in twenty years, when we probably should be
fighting for our very existence as a nation. But we are not now, and at the worst shall not
be for a long time, fighting for our very existence as a nation. Nobody believes such an assertion;
pessimists themselves do not believe it. And when statesmen give utterance to it in the hope
of startling the working-class into a desired course of conduct, they under-rate the intelligence
of the working-class and the result of such oratory is far from what they could wish.

Our national existence is as safe as it has been any time this century; indeed, it is safer,
for its chief menace has received a terrible blow, and the Prussian superstition is exploded.
All that can be urged is that we have an international job to finish; that in order to finish
it properly and within a reasonable period we must work with a will and in full concord; and
that if we fail to do this the job will be botched, with a risk of sinister consequences to
the next generation. The notion that to impress the public it is necessary to pile on the agony
with statements that no moderately enlightened person can credit, is a wrong notion, and, like
all wrong notions, can only do harm. The general public is all right, quite as all right as
the present Government or any other. Had it not been so we should not be where we are today,
but in a far less satisfactory position. Not Governments, not generals, but the masses make
success in these mighty altercations. Read Tolstoi's "War and Peace."

The War and Racial Progress

[From the Morning Post of London, July 2, 1915]

Major Leonard Darwin, in his presidential address on "Eugenics During and After the War" to
the Eugenics Education Society at the Grafton Galleries yesterday, said that our military system
seemed to be devised with the object of insuring that all who were defective should be exempt
from risks, whilst the strong, courageous, and patriotic should be endangered. Men with noble
qualities were being destroyed, whilst the unfit remained at home to become fathers of families,
and this must deteriorate the natural qualities of the coming generations. The chances of stopping
war were small, and we must consider how to minimize its evils. If conscription were adopted
future wars would produce less injury to the race, because the casualty lists would more nearly
represent a chance selection of the population; though whether a conscript army would ever
fight as well as our men were doing in France was very doubtful. The injurious effects of the
war on all useful sections of the community should be mitigated. Military training was eugenic
if the men were kept with the colours only for short periods. Officers must, of course, be
engaged for long periods, and amongst them the birth rate was very low. An increase of pay
would be beneficial in this respect, but only if given in the form of an additional allowance
for each living child. In the hope of increasing the birth rate attempts were likely to be
made to exalt the "unmarried wife," a detestable term against which all true wives should protest.
If a change in moral standards was demanded in the hope that an increase in the habit of forming
irregular unions would result in an increase in the population, that plea entirely failed because
the desired effect would not thus be produced. A special effort ought now to be made on eugenic
as well as on other grounds to maintain the high standards of home life which had ever existed
in our race, and which had been in large measure the basis of our social and racial progress
in the past. If we did not now take some steps to insure our own racial progress being at least
as rapid as that of our neighbours, and if our nation should in consequence cease in future
to play a great part in the noble and eternal struggle for human advancement, then the fault
would be ours.

The English Word, Thought, and Life

By Russian Men of Letters

     A group of sixty-seven Russian writers and publicists,
     comprising the best men of letters of the nation, with the
     exception of Vladimir Korolenko, who is at present in
     France, have signed a reply to the tribute to the writers of
     Russia by English men of letters, a translation of which was
     printed in CURRENT HISTORY for February, 1915. The text of
     the reply, given below, is taken from the Moscow daily
     newspaper, Outro Rossii; its translation into English by Leo
     Pasvolsky appeared in the New York Evening Post of June
     20th.

We have known you for a long time. We have known you since we Russians came to a communion
with Western Europe and began to draw from the great spiritual treasury created by our brethren
of Western Europe.

From generation to generation we have watched intently the life of England, and have stored
away in our minds and our hearts everything brilliant, peculiar, and individual, that has impressed
itself upon the English word, the English thought, and the English life.

We have always wondered at the breadth and the manifoldness of the English soul, in whose literature
one finds, side by side, Milton and Swift, Scott and Shelley, Shakespeare and Byron. We have
always been amazed by the incessant and constantly growing power of civic life in England;
we have always known that the English people was the first among the peoples of the world to
enter upon a struggle for civic rights, and that nowhere does the word freedom ring so proud
and so triumphant as it does in England.

With wonder and veneration, have we watched the English people, that combines the greatest
idealism with the most marvellous creative genius, that constantly transforms words into deeds,
aspirations into actions, thoughts and feelings into institutions, go onward, from step to
step, reaching out into the heavens, yet never relinquishing the earth, higher and higher along
its triumphant road, still onward in its work of creating the life of England.

Kingdoms and peoples, cultures and institutions, pass away like dreams. But thoughts and words
remain, whether they be of white men, or black, or yellow, whether they be of Jews or of Hellenes,
whether they be inscribed on slabs of stone, or on boards of clay, or on strips of papyrus.
Words and thoughts live to the present day; they still move us and uplift us, even though we
have already forgotten the names of those who spoke them. And we know that only the winged
words live on, the words that are intelligible to the whole of mankind, that appeal to the
whole of humanity, to the common human mind, the common heart.

We know the vast power of the English word. We know what a marvellous contribution the English
writers have made to the life not of England alone, but to that of the whole world, the whole
humanity. It is with a feeling of long-standing affection and veneration that we turn to the
ancient book, called "England," whose pages never grow yellow, whose letters are never effaced,
whose thoughts never become dim, whose new chapters bear witness to the fact that the book
is still being written, that new pages are still being added, and that these new pages are
permeated with that same bright and powerful spirit of humanity that illumines and enlivens
the pages of the past.

We feel proud because you have recognized the great individual worth of the Russian literature,
and we are moved by your ardent expressions of sympathy and friendship. You scarcely know what
Lord Byron was to us at the dawn of our literature, how our greatest poets, Poushkin and Lermontov,
were swayed by him. You scarcely know to what an extent the Shakespearean Hamlet, the Prince
of Denmark, has become a part of our literature, how near to us is Hamlet's tragedy.

We, too, pronounce the names of Copperfield and Snodgrass with a little difficulty, but the
name of Dickens is as familiar to us and as near to our hearts as the names of some of our
own writers.

We trust, and we even permit ourselves to hope, that our friendship will not end on the fields
of battle, but that our mutual understanding will continue to grow, as it lives on together
with those sincere and heartfelt words, with which you have addressed us. We trust that it
will be transformed into a spiritual unity between us, a unity based on the universal achievements
of the spirit of humanity.

We trust even further. We trust that evil will finally become extinguished in the hearts of
men, that mutual ill-feeling will be bitter and poignant no longer, and that, when ears of
corn will be again fluttering upon the fields, mutilated by trenches and ramparts, and drenched
in human blood, when wild flowers will begin to grow over the countless unknown graves, time
will come, when the nations that are separated by such a tremendous gulf today, will come together
again upon the one great road of humanity and will turn back once more to the great, universal
words, that are common to all men.

We trust, and we hope.

Greetings to you.

(Signed)

L. ANDREEV, K. ARSENIEV, I. BUNIN, U. BUNIN, I. BELOUSOV, M. GORKY, V. VERESAEV, A. GRUSINSKY,
N. DAVYDOV, S. ELPATIEVSKY, I. IGNATOV, S. MELGUNOV, A. SERAFIMOVICH, N. TELESHOV, I. SHMELEV,
N. MOROZOV, COUNT A.N. TOLSTOY, N. RUSANOV, F. KRIUKOV, A. GORNFELD, A. PIESHECHONOV, N. KAREYEV,
F. BATUSHKOV, L. PANTELEYEV, N. KOTLIAREVSKY, V. MIAKOTIN, V. VODOVOSOV, P. SAKULIN, OLNEM-TSEKHOVSKAYA,
A. KONI, W. KRANIKHFELD, B. LAZAREVSKY, P. POTAPENKO, TH. SOLOGUB, T. SCHEPKINA-KUPERNIK, W.
BOGUCHARSKY, K. BARANTSEVICH, S. VENGEROV, P. MILIUKOV, A. PRUGAVIN, M. KOVALEVSKY, A. POSNIKOV,
E. LETKOVA-SULTANOVA, D. OVSIANNIKO-KULIKOVSKY, A. REMEZOV, D. MEREZHKOVSKY, Z. HIPPICS, F.
ZELINSKY, N. TCHAIKOVSKY, A. BLOK, E. TCHIRIKOV, A. PETRISCHEV, I. BIELOKONSKY, PRINCE A. SUMBATOV,
W. FRITCHE, A. VESELOVSKY, W. NEMEROVICH-DANCHENKO, PRINCE E. TROUBETSKOY, I. SHPAZHINSKY,
TH. KOKOSHKIN, COUNT E.L. TOLSTOY, N. TEMKOCSKY, M. ARTISIBASHEV, U. BALTRUSHAITIS, U. AICHENWALD,
PRINCE D. SHAKHOVSKY, W. BRUSOV.

Evviva L'Italia

By William Archer

     Mr. Archer's article praising the Italian decision and
     purpose appeared originally in The London Daily News.

One of the most beautiful and memorable of human experiences is to start, one fine morning,
from some point in German Switzerland or Tyrol and, in two or three days--or it may be in one
swinging stretch--to tramp over an Alpine pass and down into the Promised Land below. It is
of no use to rush it in a motor; you might as well hop over by aeroplane. In order to savor
the experience to the full, you must take staff and scrip, like the Ritter Tannhäuser, and
go the pilgrim's way. It is a joy even to pass from the guttural and explosive place names
of Teutonia to the liquid music of the southern vocables--from Brieg to Domo d'Ossola, from
Göschenen to Bellinzona, from St. Moritz to Chiavenna, from Botzen and Brixen to Ala and Verona.
It is a still greater joy to exchange the harsh, staring colors of the north for the soft luminosity
of the south, as you zigzag down from the bare snows to the pines, from the pines to the chestnuts,
from the chestnuts to the trellised vineyards. And just about where the vineyards begin, you
come upon two wayside posts, one of them inscribed "Schweiz" or "Oesterreich," the other bearing
the magic word "Italia." If your heart does not leap at the sight of it you may as well about-turn
and get you home again; for you have no sense of history, no love of art, no hunger for divine,
inexhaustible beauty. For all these things are implicit in the one word, "Italy."

Alas! the charm of this excursion has from of old made irresistible appeal to the northern
barbarian. That has been Italy's historic misfortune. For certain centuries, under the dominance
of Rome, she kept the Goths and Huns and Vandals aloof by what is called in India a "forward
policy"--by throwing the outworks of civilization far beyond the Alpine barrier. But Rome fell
to decay, and, wave upon wave, the barbarian--generally the Teuton, under one alias or another--surged
over her glorious highlands, her bounteous lowlands, and her marvelous cities. It is barely
half a century since the hated Tedeschi were expelled from the greater part of their Cisalpine
possessions; and now, in the fullness of time, Italy has resolved to redeem the last of her
ravished provinces and to make her boundaries practically conterminous with Italian speech
and race.

The political and military aspects of the situation have been fully dealt with elsewhere; but
a lifelong lover of Italy may perhaps be permitted to state his personal view of her action.
While the negotiations lasted, her position was scarcely a dignified one. It seemed that she
was willing, not, indeed, to sell her birthright for a mess of pottage, but to buy her birthright
at the cost of complicity in monstrous crime. Neither Italy nor Europe would have profited
in the long run by the substitution of "Belgia Irredenta" for "Italia Irredenta." But now that
she has repudiated the sops offered to her honor and conscience, her position is clear and
fine. She has rejected larger concessions, probably, than any great power has ever before been
prepared to make without stroke of sword; and she has thrown in her lot with the Allies in
no time-serving spirit, but at a point when their fortunes were by no means at their highest.
This is a gesture entirely worthy of a great and high-spirited people.

It is true that she had no guarantee for the promised concessions except the "Teutonica fides,"
which has become a byword and a reproach. But I am much mistaken if that was the sole or main
motive that determined her resort to arms. She took a larger view. She felt that even if Germany,
by miracle, kept her faith, the world, after a German victory, would be no place for free men
to live in. She was not moved by the care for a few square miles of territory, more or less,
but by a strong sense of democratic solidarity and of human dignity. After the events of the
past ten months, she felt that, to a self-respecting man or nation, German hate was infinitely
preferable to German love. It was, in fact, a patent of nobility.

And now that Italy is ranked with us against the powers of evil, it becomes more than ever
our duty to strain every nerve for their defeat. We are now taking our share in the guardianship
of the world's great treasure house of historic memories and of the creations of genius. We
have become, as it were, co-trustees of an incomparable, irreplaceable heritage of beauty.
Italy has been the scene of many and terrible wars; but since she emerged from the Dark Ages
I do not know that war has greatly damaged the glory of her cities. She has not, of recent
centuries, had to mourn a Louvain or a Rheims. But if the Teuton, in his present temper, should
gain any considerable footing within her bounds, the Dark Ages would be upon her once more.
What effort can be too great to avert such a calamity!

I am not by way of being versed in the secrets of Courts; but I recall today, with encouragement,
a conversation I had some years ago with an ex-Ambassador to Italy (not a British Ambassador)
who had been on intimate terms with the King, and spoke with enthusiasm of his Majesty's character.
He told me of his bravery, his devotion to duty, his simple manners, his high intelligence.
One little anecdote I may repeat without indiscretion. A Minister of Education said to my friend
that when he had an interview with the King he felt like a schoolboy bringing up to an exacting
though kindly master a half-prepared lesson; and when this was repeated to his Majesty, he
smiled and said: "Ministers come and go, but I, you see, am always here." He merited far better
than his grandfather (said my informant) the title of "il Re Galantuomo." Under such a Chief
of State Italy may, with high hope and courage, set about her task of tearing away her unredeemed
fringes from that patchwork of tyrannies known as the Austrian Empire.

Who Died Content!

[From the Westminster Gazette]

     Rex and Wilfred Winslow were the first men who died on the
     field of German South West Africa. The epitaph on the cross
     on the grave ran thus:

       "Tell England ye that pass this monument,
       That we who rest here died content."

       --DAILY NEWSPAPER.

    Far the horizon of our best desires
        Stretches into the sunset of our lives:
    The wavering taper of the achieved expires,
        And only the irrevocable will survives.
    Content to die for England! How the words
        Thrill those who live for England, knowing not
    The stern, heroic passion that upgirds
        The loins of such as, ardent, for her fought.
    Content! It is a word that brooks no bounds,
        If from the heights and depths it takes its name:
    Upon the proud lips of great men it sounds
        As if the clear note from the Heavens came;
            A word that, sea-like, shrinks and grows again;
            A little word on lips of little men!

JOHN HOGBEN.

"The Germans, Destroyers of Cathedrals"

By Artists, Writers, Musicians, and Philosophers of France

     The subjoined extracts of official documents are translated
     from a book published in Paris by Hachette et Cie., the full
     title of which is "The Germans, Destroyers of Cathedrals and
     of Treasures of the Past: Being a Compilation of Documents
     Belonging to the Ministry of Public Instruction and Fine
     Arts." The official documents are offered to "the literary
     and artistic associations of foreign countries." The
     editorial notes and comment are reproduced from the original
     text.

To the Artistic and Literary Associations of Foreign Countries and to all Friends of the Beautiful,
in order that the System of Destruction of the German Armies be brought to their knowledge,
the present Memorial is offered by:

Mme. JULIETTE ADAM.
PAUL ADAM.
M. ANQUETIN.
ANDRE ANTOINE, Founder of the Théâtre Libre.
PAUL APPELL, Dean of the Faculty of Sciences, member of the Institute.
MAURICE BARRES, Deputy, member of the Académie Française.
ALBERT BARTHOLOME.
JEAN BERAUD.
TRISTAN BERNARD.
ALBERT BESNARD, Director of the Académie de France at Rome, member of
  the Institute.
PIERRE BONNARD.
LEON BONNAT, member of the Institute, Director of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts.
EMILE-ANTOINE BOURDELLE.
ELEMIR BOURGES, member of the Académie Goncourt.
EMILE BOUTROUX, member of the Institute.
ADOLPHE BRISSON, President of the Association de la Critique.
ALFRED BRUNEAU.
Dr. CAPITAN, Professor at the Collège de France, member of the Académie
  de Médecine.
ALFRED CAPUS, member of the Académie Française.
M. CAROLUS-DURAN, member of the Institute.
GUSTAVE CHARPENTIER, member of the Institute.
CAMILLE CHEVILLARD, Director of the Concerts-Lamoureux.
PAUL CLAUDEL.
GEORGES CLEMENCEAU, Senator, former President of the Council.
ROMAIN COOLUS.
ALFRED CORTOT.
GEORGES COURTELINE.
P.A.J. DAGNAN-BOUVERET, member of the Institute.
CLAUDE DEBUSSY.
Mme. VIRGINIE DEMONT-BRETON.
JULES DESBOIS.
LUCIEN DESCAVES, member of the Académie Goncourt.
MAXIME DETHOMAS.
AUGUSTE DORCHAIN.
PAUL DUKAS.
J. ERNEST-CHARLES, President of the Société des Conférences Etrangères.
EMILE FABRE.
EMILE FAGUET, member of the Académie Française.
GABRIEL FAURE, member of the Institute, Director of the Conservatory of
  Music.
CAMILLE FLAMMARION, President of the Société Astronomique de France.
ROBERT DE FLERS.
ANDRE FONTAINAS.
PAUL FORT.
ANATOLE FRANCE, member of the Académie Française.
A. DE LA GANDARA.
FIRMIN GEMIER, Director of the Théâtre-Antoine.
ANDRE GIDE.
CHARLES GIRAULT, member of the Institute.
EDMOND GUIRAUD.
LUCIEN GUITRY.
EDMOND HARAUCOURT.
LOUIS HAVET, member of the Institute.
MAURICE HENNEQUIN, President of the Société des Auteurs et Compositeurs
  Dramatiques.
JACQUES HERMANT, President of the Société des Architectes Diplomes par
  le Gouvernement.
A.F. HEROLD.
PAUL HERVIEU, member of the Académie Française.
VINCENT D'INDY, Director of the Schola Cantorum.
M. INGHELBREGHT.
FRANCIS JAMMES.
FRANTZ JOURDAIN, President of the Syndicat de la Presse Artistique,
  President of the Autumn Salon.
GUSTAVE KAHN.
VICTOR LALOUX, member of the Institute.
HENRI LAVEDAN, member of the Académie Française.
GEORGES LECOMTE, President of the Société des Gens de Lettres.
Mlle. MARIE LENERU.
PIERRE LOTI, member of the Académie Française.
MAURICE MAGRE.
ARISTIDE MAILLOL.
PAUL MARGUERITTE, member of the Académie Goncourt.
HENRI MARTIN.
M. MATISSE.
MAX MAUREY.
Mme. CATULLE MENDES.
ANTONIN MERCIE, member of the Institute, President of the Société des
  Artistes Français.
STUART MERRILL.
ANDRE MESSAGER.
OCTAVE MIRBEAU, member of the Académie Goncourt.
CLAUDE MONET.
Mme. DE NOAILLES.
J.L. PASCAL, member of the Institute.
EDMOND PERRIER, President of the Institute, Director of the Muséum.
GABRIEL PIERNE, Director of the Concerts-Colonne.
M. PIOCH.
CHARLES PLUMET.
Mme. RACHILDE.
J.F. RAFFAELLI.
ODILON REDON.
GEORGES RENARD, Professor at the Collège de France.
JEAN RICHEPIN, member, of the Académie Française.
AUGUSTS RODIN.
ALFRED ROLL, President of the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts.
J.H. ROSNY, aîné, member of the Académie Goncourt.
EDMOND ROSTAND, member of the Académie Française.
SAINT-GEORGES DE BOUHELIER.
CAMILLE SAINT-SAENS, member of the Institute.
GABRIEL SEAILLES.
PAUL SIGNAC, President of the Société des Artistes Indépendants.
M. STEINLEN.
FRANCIS VIELE-GRIFFIN.
ADOLPHE WILLETTE.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the Literary and Artistic Associations of Foreign Countries and to all Friends of the Beautiful:

"... It is not true that our troops brutally destroyed Louvain. It is not true that we make
war in contempt of the rights of mankind. Our soldiers commit neither undisciplined nor cruel
acts...."

MANIFESTO OF THE GERMAN INTELLECTUALS.

"If the savants make science what it is, science does not make the character of the savants
what it is."

EDMOND PERRIER.

"... Scientific barbarism."

EMILE BOUTROUX.

I.

If we were able--at this hour, when, through the act of the Teutonic Empire, the world may
witness unnamable deeds--if we were able to cite the most odious of them, we should say that,
after the massacre of innocent people and all the assaults on the rights of mankind committed
by the German armies, the worst has seemed to us the shameless manner in which the superior
intellects beyond the Rhine have dared to cover up these crimes. It is not that we ever believed
that from any corner of Germany there could come to us an appearance of fellow-feeling, in
these circumstances wherein no one has any other right than that of giving himself body and
soul to his native land. We know that, before speaking for the universe, men threatened by
the enemy should be faithful to their flag, in the face of everything and against everything--and
with resolution. At no hour, therefore, have we thought that German savants and artists could
raise their voice to repudiate their armies, when the latter were going to war with the object
of further extending their empire. But, at least, they should keep silence, and before the
horror of crimes to be judged especially by the tribunal of the élite they should not have
shown their miserable enthusiasm. "You see," as a clear-sighted Dutch professor[5] has well
written on this point, "if these intellectuals were not blinded they would rather have asked
themselves if, in this war that stains Europe with blood, the Prussian military authorities
were not losing for centuries the reputation of the great name of Germany." And suppose it
were even a small matter if they had lost only the great name of Germany, that the epoch of
Goethe, Kant, and Beethoven had covered with glory. But with it they have vilified as well
the noble rôle of the philosopher, of the historian, of the savant, and of the artist. In truth
they have betrayed their own gods, and the professions to which they belong can no longer be
honored by them--so far as the question of conscience goes, at least. And as for the sacred
thing called civilization, which is above our interests and our vanities of an hour, they may
have served it usefully by their personal work in the past, but they were unequal to the task
of remaining its protectors when their mere silence would perhaps have helped to save it.[6]
They have thus shown that, with their more or less sparkling black eagles and under the bedizenment
of their Court costumes, they are for the most part narrow fanatics or paid scribes whose pen
is only a tool in the hands of their master of a day. It is not even sure whether through their
cult of this "militarism," to which they have given the most shameful blind-signature, they
have not hopelessly condemned it, by testifying that under the rule of the German sabre human
thought has no other course than to humiliate itself!... But on the score of what they are
worth in professional morality and courage, agreement is certain today, everywhere.

[Footnote 5: Professor Dake.]

[Footnote 6: On the score of certain names important in Germany--names not found under the
manifesto of the Intellectuals--a question arises: Were they not solicited as well to cover
up these crimes, or did they refuse? If the question were one of a simple memorial, carrying
with it no abdication of conscience, this point would be without importance, for it would simply
mean that a list, however long, could not bring together all the men of renown of a country,
and omissions would often have to be laid to chance. But here a venomous manifesto was to be
signed, made up of violent lies and of arbitrary theories; and with this in mind one may see
a meaning in certain abstentions. Without any possible doubt they are the act of courageous
men, who, feeling deeply where the truth is, will not ally themselves against it; and by their
resistance they do it honor.]

Their great affair--and that of every thinking German--is to object, when spoken to of their
crimes, either that they were born of necessity or that they did not take place. As against
these allegations, unsupported by any proof, the most formal denials have officially been given.
But to the latter we shall now add the true description of the facts. And we think that, in
spite of the power and the dogmatic authority of its élite, the activity of its emissaries
in all parts of the world, and, finally, all its vast apparatus of conquest--military and civil--Germany
cannot long make its stand against the humble little truth, which advances, noiselessly but
also fearlessly, with the tenacious light in its hand that it received from Reality--from unquenchable
and ardent Reality.

We come to you armed with the facts. It is only these unanswerable witnesses that we have wished
to oppose to the gratuitous affirmations of our colleagues beyond the Rhine. We might have
taken you into the mazes of twenty frightful dramas, for at every place where the German troops
have advanced they have trodden under foot the rights of mankind and counted as nothing the
civilization and the patrimony of nations. We have thought it wiser to limit ourselves to the
relation of certain events bearing the seal of certainty.

Not all the cities which may have suffered have as yet opened their gates to our brothers.
Not being able to collect authentic testimony there we prefer, then, not to speak of them--for
the moment. But in all those evacuated by the enemy, commissions[7] have hurried to ascertain
the losses on the spot. It is from these legal examinations that we have written this report,
which, in impartial fashion, makes you the judges.

[Footnote 7: Throughout this work we shall often have recourse to the reports of these commissions.
At the end of the present volume will be found certain of these documents, unpublished till now.]

Unhappy cities have been tortured in body and soul, that is to say, in their population and
in the works built by their hands, the immortal relics of the dead. Of the miseries the people
have suffered it is not permitted us to speak. But as to those noble houses built with art
which have been destroyed, as to those constructions erected by our ancestors for the edification
of men of all classes, of all times, and all countries, which are today but ruins; as to those
masterpieces in which all the elegant poetry of our race was realized and that belonged to
the civilized world, of which they were a glory and an ornament, and which subsist as nothing
but a mournful heap of débris--of these we are not bound to keep silent. But not one exaggerated
word shall be uttered by us. The account we shall give is established by high testimony and
by irrefutable documents.

But let us cease all this preparation and come to the events of Rheims.

(Page 59 of the book.)

DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE.

APPENDIX I.

No. 1.

AT RHEIMS.

M. Henry Jadart, Librarian of the City of Rheims and Curator of the Museum of that city, was
present at the bombardments of the 4th and the 19th of September. He was well placed to enlighten
us on the destruction accomplished at the time.

He was kind enough to send us the communication which we publish below. From the testimony
of M. Jadart, it will appear how many monumental constructions at Rheims were mutilated or
destroyed, and how these attest, not less than the ruins of the cathedral, the vandalism of
the German armies:

Friday, Sept. 4.--The bombardment, which took place suddenly from half-past 9 till quarter-past
10 in the morning, caused some accidents to the cathedral, more or less notable from the point
of view of art, (some stained glass more or less ancient, some slight scratches to the statues;)
at the Church of Saint-Rémi (ancient stained glass, tapestry of the sixteenth century, pictures
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, altar screen, statues, south portal, and vault
of transept) and at the Museum of Fine Arts, Rue Chanzy, 8, (salle Henry Vasnier broken in
by a shell, about twenty modern pictures damaged.) Besides, among the houses struck, the Gothic
house, 57 Rue de Vesle, suffered mutilation in the sculpture of a fireplace--it was entirely
demolished by the bombardment and fire of Sept. 19.

Saturday, Sept. 19.--This was the day of the great destruction by the bombs and the fires caused
in the cathedral, the ancient residence of the Archbishop, in the houses of the Place Royale,
and the Cérès quarter. On the afternoon of this day and during the night from Saturday to Sunday,
flames consumed the most precious collections of the city, at the Archbishop's palace and in
private houses, an inventory of which it will never be possible to prepare.

The top of the cathedral burned after the scaffolding of the northern tower of the great portal
had taken fire, toward 3 o'clock in the afternoon. The statues and sculptures of this side
of the same portal were licked by the flames and scorched through and through. The eight bells
in this tower also were caught by the flames, and the whole thing fell down near the cross
aisle of the transept. The spire of the Belfry of the Angel, at the apse, fell, and with it
disappeared the leaden heads which decorated its base. In the interior the sculptures and the
walls of the edifice were damaged by fire in the straw which had been strewn about for the
German wounded; the great eighteenth century tympanums of the lateral doors, west side, were
damaged likewise. The thirteenth century stained glass suffered shocks from the air and were
perforated, in the rose windows as also in the high windows of the nave. The pictures in the
transept were spared, but the choir stalls (eighteenth century work) were consumed--at the
left on entering.

Of the adjacent palace all the buildings were attacked by the flames and are now nothing but
ruined walls, save the chapel of the thirteenth century, of which the main part subsists intact,
and the lower hall of the King's Lodge, under the Hall of Anointment, (of the end of the fifteenth
century.) The anointment rooms on the ground floor, reconstructed in the seventeenth century,
contained a great number of historical portraits and furniture of various periods, which were
all a prey to the flames. It was the same in the apartments of the Archbishops, which also
contained numerous pictures and different views of the city, transported from the Hôtel de
Ville and intended for the formation of a historical museum of Rheims. Precious furniture,
bronzes of great value--like the foot of the candelabra of Saint Rémi and the candelabra of
the Abbaye d'Igny--were also in these apartments, of which nothing is left but the walls. The
archaeological collections of the city were consumed in the upper apartments, as also a whole
museum, organized and classified to represent the ethnography of la Champagne by a thousand
objects tracing back the ancient industries, the trades, the arts, and usages of this province.
Finally, the rich library founded by Cardinal Gousset, offering superb editions and assembled
in a vast paneled hall, was totally burned up in the modern building constructed for it at
the expense of the State.

After the disasters to the arts at the cathedral and the palace, we must note also the mansions
and private houses, remarkable through their architecture and their decoration, that were demolished,
burned, and annihilated. No. 1 Rue du Marc, Renaissance mansion--damage to the sculptured ceiling
and the sculptures of the court. Two pavilions of the Place Royale, creations of the eighteenth
century, are now only calcined walls. The same fate overtook the Gothic house, 57 Rue de Vesle,
(of which mention was made above;) the house, 40 Rue de l'Université, built in the eighteenth
century; the house next to the Ecu de Rheims, of the same period; the mansion at 12 Rue la
Grue, which was decorated with carved lintels and forged iron banisters; the mansion at 19
Rue Eugène-Destenque, in the style of the Henri IV. period, having a great stone fireplace
and decorative paintings in one gallery. Finally, in the Rue des Trois-Raisinets, the remains
of the monastery of the Franciscans, with a cloister, and the framework of a granary of the
Middle Ages.

These notes are really only observations to be completed later with the aid of descriptions
of ancient date, but they offer sure information of the lamentable losses suffered by our unfortunate
city during the first month of its bombardment.

Paris, Jan. 20, 1915.

No. 2.

THE FIXED IDEA.

From M. Auguste Dorchain we receive this striking observation:

The idea of destroying the cathedral haunted them for a hundred years, at least. Three dates,
three texts, three proofs:

April, 1814, Jean-Joseph Goerres, an illustrious professor, the pious author of a "Christian
Mysticism," in four volumes, wrote, in the Rheinische Merkur:

"Reduce to ashes that basilica of Rheims where Klodovig was anointed, where that Empire of
the Franks was born--the false brothers of the noble Teutons; burn that cathedral!..."

Sept. 5, 1914, we read in the Berliner Blatt:

"The western group of our armies in France has already passed the second line of defensive
forts, except Rheims, whose royal splendor, which dates back to the time of the white lilies,
will not fail to crumble to dust, soon, under the fire of our mortars."

Jan. 1, 1915. In the artistic and literary supplement of the Berlin Lokal-Anzeiger M. Rudolf
Herzog sings an ode "in honor of the destruction of the Cathedral of Rheims":

"The bells sound no more in the cathedral with two towers. Finished is the benediction!...
With lead, O Rheims, we have shut your house of idolatry!"

A lyric cry of the heart, when the national wish, a century old, is at last accomplished.

No comment on these three texts--it suffices to bring them together.

AUGUSTE DORCHAIN.

Feb. 20, 1915.

No. 4.

LETTER OF M. L'ABBE DOURLENT.

M. l'Abbé Dourlent, Curate Archpresbyter of the Cathedral of Senlis, was one of the principal
witnesses of the drama. So he has had to speak of it several times. But up to now we had no
written deposition from him over his signature. Here is the document which comes from this
priest. It attests his courage and sincerity at the same time.

Diocese of Beauvais, Archpresbytery and Parish of Senlis, (Oise.)

SENLIS, Jan. 8, 1915.

Monsieur: You do me the honor to ask for my testimony as to the actions of the enemy at Senlis
at the time of the occupation, on the 2d of September.

I beg to send you my attestation, and express my confusion and regret at not having been able
to do so sooner.

On the 2d of September an engagement took place between the French and German troops on the
plain of Senlis from 10 o'clock till about half-past 2, and it was ended by the bombardment
of our beautiful cathedral and a part of the city. The enemy entered the city about half-past
3 and were received at the end of the Faubourg St. Martin by a fusillade directed against them
by delayed soldiers and a company armed with machine guns, charged with arresting the pursuit
of the French Army, which was bending back toward Paris.

Immediately the superior officer, who was conversing with M. Odent, the Mayor of Senlis, accused
the civilians of having fired on the German Army, and rendered him responsible for it. Then
began the burning of the whole Rue de la République. This untruth was immediately spread about,
and two hours after the affray a General said at Villers-Saint-Frambourg what another General
said next morning at Nanteuil-le-Haudouin: That Senlis was burned because the civilians had
fired on the German Army. The thirty-seven hostages brought to Chamant heard the same statement.

To this testimony I will add my own, which will only confirm what is said above: As soon as
the enemy arrived soldiers of the cyclist corps obliged me to conduct them to the top of the
belfry of our cathedral, from which they pretended that they had been shot at. Their inspection
revealed nothing of what they thought to find, for I alone had the key and I had confided it
to no one. Some moments later I was consigned to the Hôtel du Grand-Cerf as a hostage. The
German General Staff had gone to Chamant. Some hours later I accosted a superior officer and
asked him what I should do, seeing no one of whom I could inquire the reason for my arrest.
"Remain here, where you will at least be in safety. Poor curate! Poor Senlis! But, then, why
did you receive us as you did? The civilians shot at us, and we were fired at from the tower
of your church. So Senlis is condemned. You see that street in flames? (and, in fact, the Rue
de la République was burning everywhere, 114 houses in ruins) well, this night the city itself
will be entirely burned down. We have the order to make of Senlis a French Louvain. At Louvain
the Belgians shot at us from their houses, from their belfries--Louvain no longer exists. Tomorrow
it will be the same with your place. We admit fighting among soldiers, that is war; but we
are pitiless with civilians. Paris and the whole of France need a terrible example which shall
remind them that warfare by civilians is a crime that cannot be too severely punished."

My energetic protest against the accusation concerning the cathedral and my other doubts formulated
against the intervention of civilians (I did not know what was the nature of the engagement
in the Faubourg) seemed to interest the officer, who promised to make a report to the General
and to plead our cause. Thanks to God, the sentence was repealed; our poor Mayor and ten hostages
were shot, but the city was spared.

Such are the facts, which I thought might be of interest in your researches. I am at your orders
to complete them if you need more.

I beg you, Sir, to accept the expression of my most respectful sentiments.

(Signed.) DOURLENT. Curate Archpresbyter of Senlis.

No. 5.

THE LIBRARY OF LOUVAIN.

To close the series of depositions collected by us, here is that of M. Paul Delannoy, Librarian
of the University of Louvain. The few lines he was kind enough to address to us will suffice
to show the extent of the treasure formerly at Louvain and also of the disaster accomplished,
which seems irreparable:

The library of the University of Louvain possessed 500 manuscripts, about 800 incunabulae,
and 250,000 to 300,000 volumes. One noted especially the original of the bull of foundation
of the university in 1425, an example on vellum of the famous work of André Vésale, De Humani
Corporis Fabrica, an example given to the university by Charles V., a precious manuscript by
Thomas à Kempis. The bibliographical curiosities were numerous; the collection of old Flemish
bindings of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries contained some curious specimens. The souvenirs
of the ancient university, seals, diplomas, medals, &c., were preciously guarded in cases.
The old printed matters of the sixteenth century formed an extremely rare treasury; all the
pieces, pamphlets, and placards on the reform of the Low Countries were kept together in a
"varia" volume, thus constituting a unique ensemble. It was the same with a host of pieces
relating to Jansenism.

The great halls of the books, with artistic woodwork, were jewels of eighteenth century architecture;
the Salle des Pas-Perdus of the Halles Universitaires, with its vaults and capitals, has been
reproduced in manuals of art and archaeology.

The reading room of the library contained a whole gallery of portraits of professors of the
ancient university; this museum was a very precious source for the literary history of the
Low Countries.

PAUL DELANNOY.

No. 6.

THE TESTIMONY OF M. PIERRE LOTI.

Finally, covering these various testimonies, and deriving from his illustrious signature a
character of high distinction, here is what M. Pierre Loti writes us:

More or less, everywhere in the north and east of our dear France, I have seen with my eyes
the German abominations, in which, without this experience, I could not have believed.

In indignation and horror I associate myself with the protestations above, as well as with
all those, not yet formulated, which will come out later on and which will always be below
the monstrous reality.

PIERRE LOTI.

So we may say that the present memorial, tempered many a time, is less an excessive than a
perfectly moderate picture.

APPENDIX II.

No. 1.

NOTRE DAME DE PARIS.

It will be remembered that on the 11th of October a Taube, having managed to penetrate the
zone of Paris, flew over the city, hovered just above Notre Dame, and dropped several bombs
on the cathedral. Note that this was on Sunday and that at the hour when this Taube accomplished
its disastrous mission there was in Notre Dame a very great crowd of worshippers. None of them
was hurt, but the distinction was undeniably that of killing unarmed people and mutilating
a marvel of French art.

Let us now read the first report, signed by M. Harancourt, who was able to proceed to interesting
discoveries on the very day of the attempt:

Musée des Thermes et de l'Hôtel de Cluny. Sunday, Oct. 11, 1914.

To the Under Secretary of State for the Fine Arts, Service of Historic Monuments.

As I reside in the arrondissement of Notre Dame, I got to the cathedral some moments after
the explosion of the bombs. In the company of a Commissary of Police, of an architect of the
city, of a Canon, and of two Sergeants of the Fire Department, I examined the damage caused
in order to be able to advise the Service of Historical Monuments immediately if the case should
be urgent.

The bomb exploded on the west slope of the roof of the north transept, a little above the gutter,
near the clock. After having pierced the lead covering it seems to have exploded only after
having struck the transverse beam, whose end is splintered. The explosion, having thus taken
place under the covering, pushed the edges of the tear outward, making a hole in this covering
through which a young person could pass; six small beams were split round about. The bomb was
loaded like shrapnel, apparently with leaden bullets of different calibres, for the roof is
riddled with circular holes to a distance of twenty meters from there. The holes are of various
diameters, but none of the bullets could be found. The nearest turret was damaged--several
ornaments were broken from it--the modern clockstand that incases the big clock was riddled
by pieces of shell. The bomb thrown at the apse and which fell in the garden was not this time
a shrapnel bomb, but an incendiary bomb, which only threw out a sheet of flame. The third having
fallen into the Seine, toward the south side of the porch, it is difficult to say whether it
was a shrapnel bomb or an incendiary.

To sum up, the damage from the artistic point of view is almost nil; it simply calls for some
work by carpenters and roofers.

