Sudden changes in temperature are apt to induce illness in the delicate. Mild weather may have
prevailed for some days, when all at once the wind veers round to the north-east and at the
same time it blows high. Exposure to weather of this kind may induce whatsoever kind of ailment
an individual is subject to.

Well, there is one way and only one, to avoid it, and that is to dress in proportion to the
cold. No need for the clothing to be thick or heavy. It should rather be the reverse, only
soft and warm. Heavy clothing is sure to cause fatigue in walking, and also perspiration, and
both states of body lay open the pores for trouble to enter.

No need, either, for even the delicate to confine themselves to the house during the cold spring
weeks or days. Confinement to the house means want of exercise, want of an abundance of fresh
air, and very often want of appetite. Well, the strong may exist intact for a long time without
much exercise or ozone, but, mind you, the delicate cannot.

On wet days a mackintosh may be worn, though a good large umbrella is far better. But if you
will have a waterproof, let it be a cloth one, one that will admit of ventilation, and not
an india-rubber article. This last is only fit for a Scottish cabman, with muscles of iron
and sinews of steel.

Here is an extreme case by way of example. A lady goes out to take a walk on a damp day thus
accoutred: An extraordinary bulk and weight of clothes, and over all an india-rubber mackintosh;
on her feet are those abominations called goloshes; over her mouth she has stuck a respirator,
and over her head and shoulders she carries an enormous umbrella. The windows and doors of
this lady's house are always kept shut, and rendered hermetically sealed by woollen sand-bags
and other oxygen-banishing contrivances. Is it any wonder that she is pale and flabby in face,
that her very hands are sickly, soft, and puffy, and that she is continually at war with the cook?

Be warned, dear reader; take all reasonable precautions against catching cold, but do not render
your body unwholesome from over-clothing, nor your lungs sickly for want of the pure air of
heaven that you can no more live well without than a fish can survive in a muddy stream. Sore
throat and tic doloreux, or face-ache, are very common complaints in cold weather with high
winds. But I really think they are more easily prevented than cured. Both may be produced in
the same way--namely, from exposure to cold. It is a draught blowing directly on the face and
into the eyes or upon the neck that brings on these distressing complaints. Beware of such
a draught, and beware of damp or wet feet. Beware, also, when walking out, of having too thick
a muffle around the neck, for this is apt to sweat it.

Whenever you feel the slightest touch of sore throat, examine it at the glass, and if there
be any redness, do it over with your camel's-hair pencil dipped in a mixture of glycerine two
parts and tincture of iron one part.

As for tic, you protect yourself against cold and damp, but you ought also to take an occasional
tonic, and there is nothing I know better than the citrate of iron and quinine. If, however,
this medicine should produce a disagreeable feeling of fulness in the head, it had better be
avoided and some other tonic substituted. Well, there is cod-liver oil in conjunction with
the extract of malt. This is the only form in which cod-liver oil can be taken by many.

I should mention that an occasional aperient pill will do good, but that the habit of taking
medicine of this kind as a regular thing should be avoided.

In cold weather the feet should be kept very comfortable, but you must avoid sitting too much
by the fire. I have already said that sudden atmospheric changes are dangerous, but girls often
manufacture these changes for themselves, quite independent of the weather, by keeping themselves
too warm indoors and hugging the fire too much.

In cold weather the food should be more nourishing, and soups are good for the health. Soups
should be avoided when the weather changes to warm.

Sugar, sweets, puddings, and fatty foods are all good in cold, bleak weather, but in summer
these do harm, if used to any great extent, by heating the blood.

The change in this country from cold with high winds and perhaps frosts at night to warmth
and even scorching heat is often very sudden. Even the delicate are then very apt to throw
off their winter or spring clothing. But to do so suddenly is highly injudicious. Girls who
are not strong should wear some woollen material all the year round. This should of course
be of a lighter texture in summer, but woollen it ought to be, without doubt.

It is, I believe, a fact that there are fully as many disagreeable colds caught in summer as
in winter, and this can only be owing to the greater recklessness with which people expose
themselves to the influence of the weather.

During sultry and thundery weather, as it is called, many of the delicate suffer from languor,
listlessness, and headache. These symptoms usually go away suddenly when the weather breaks
or the storm comes on and rolls over. Exertion in cases of this kind should be avoided, as
well as anything like heavy meals. The sufferer is better out of doors than in, and better
reclining in a hammock or easy-chair out of a draught than standing or walking about.

Hot weather greatly depresses the vital energy, because it usually comes on so suddenly. On
very warm days the delicate should avoid the sunshine's glare during the heat of the day. But
exercise must be taken if health is to be retained, so in summer even girls that are not strong
should get out of bed soon and take a tepid if not cold bath. About half-an-hour after breakfast
is the best time for exercise, and again about an hour before sunset, just when the day is
cooling down, but before the chill, night air has begun to blow.

I have no intention at present to take up the subject of food in its relation to weather, but
I must be permitted to say that in our country, as a rule, summer dinners are served on mistaken
principles. Why, they differ but little, if at all, from the same meals as placed before us
in the winter season--soup, fish, and great joints, pastry and cheese.

To the robust I have nothing to say. Let them eat what they choose; in time they will find
out their mistake. But I do seriously advise delicate girls to live rather abstemiously and
on light, easily digested dishes during the hot weather. Salads (and fruit, if good and ripe)
may, however, be taken with great benefit.

We constantly hear young folks complaining of thirst during very warm weather. The reason is
not so much to be sought in the heat itself as in the way they live. Overloading the stomach
with strong meats in the summer season not only induces thirst but positively enfeebles the
body and hurts the digestion.

Ice and ices should be avoided as much as possible; at the best their use is but a very artificial
way of cooling the overheated body. A mixture of ice and stimulants is worse ten times. A cup
of good tea is one of the most wholesome beverages one can take in warm weather. It exhilarates,
it cools, and while it cools the body it calms the mind.

Lime or lemon juice and water make a good drink. It should be sipped.

Ginger beer is somewhat too gassy for a delicate stomach. Raspberry syrup in water, acidulated
to taste with a little citric acid, is very refreshing, and the same may be said of many other
of the fruit syrups.

Raspberry vinegar is made by placing three pounds of the picked fruit into a glass vessel and
pouring over them a pint and a half of white wine vinegar. It should stand for a fortnight
and then be strained without pressure.

Buttermilk is as good for a drink in summer as it is for the complexion. Whey is also an excellent
drink in summer, and I cannot refrain from suggesting as a summer dish curds and cream.

Ripe fruit may be eaten during hot weather with great benefit, only it must be ripe and not
over ripe.

To conclude, I shall give a prescription for a summer drink which is worth making a note of.
Take the thin peel and the juice of a good-sized lemon and add a small teaspoonful of citric
acid and a wine-glassful of fruit syrup, then pour on of boiling water one quart. Let it stand
till cold, and then strain.

GIRLS' FRIENDSHIPS.

By the Author of "Flowering Thorns."

CHAPTER I.

IDEAL FRIENDSHIPS.

I don't suppose there are many girls between the ages of sixteen and twenty-three who have
not a great friend--a particular friend; and if there are, it is my opinion they cannot be
the best kind of girls, because unnatural.

Some one--I think it is the author of "John Halifax, Gentleman"--has called friendship a "Foreshadowing
of love"; and if it is natural for a woman to have a lover, it is no less natural for a girl
to have a great friend among her girl associates.

How do girls make friends? and why do their friendships last very often but a short time? or,
again, how is it they ever endure a long time? are questions which people who have forgotten
their own early friendships, or, perhaps, never gave much thought to them, puzzle over in vain.
And they may have puzzled you too, my thoughtful girl-readers, who want the ideal friend you
have read of or dreamed of in day-dreams, but neither possess nor know how to acquire.

To begin with--What is friendship? and I am inclined to define it as a bond of mutual affection,
sympathy, and help. If it is lacking in any one of these particulars, just so far does it fall
short of ideal friendship.

Test your present so-called friendship by these tests, and I think you will find that any dissatisfaction
you may feel in them can be accounted for by a failure to pass one or other.

There is, perhaps, not much difficulty about the first of these. Young people feel quickly
and strongly, and if girls did not honestly love one another, or imagine--also honestly--that
they did, the friendship, if, indeed, it could exist at all, would be shorn of half its charm.
But love must be fed, and will only starve on a diet of respect and admiration, without a very
large admixture of sympathy. Sympathy, fellow-feeling, mutual sensibility--call it how we will--is
a simple necessity to our ideal friendship, and by no means compels the two friends to unvarying
likeness either in character or tastes. But our ideal friends--let us call them Alice and Maud--must
be united so wholly by this subtle bond that the pleasure, pain, or interest of the one touches,
through her, the other, who shares in what I may call this reflective way the emotion originating
with her friend.

Alice, who does not personally care for music in the least, yet thoroughly enjoys a concert,
because she is feeling (reflectively) all the time the keen delight with which Maud is listening
to every note; and Maud, for the same reason, has true pleasure in reading that rather dry
volume of essays, because that scattered throughout are sentiments and expressions which she
knows very well Alice will greatly appreciate.

Mutual sympathy between friends is, of course, the outcome of love; and yet it is surprising
how little sympathy sometimes exists between girls who to all appearance are really fond of
one another.

This may arise from selfishness, unselfishness, or unintelligence--that density of mental vision
which has never been educated to perceive the subtle bonds which bind soul to soul.

Now let us take Edith and Amy as examples of an imperfect friendship, in contrary distinction
to the ideal or perfect. They are fond of one another, but there is a lack of mutual sympathy.
Amy is full of ideas and projects, which she sows broadcast during their long confidentials,
and which spring up in great beauty (to her mind, at least) in the fertile soil of Edith's
admiration. But all the giving is on one side. Edith listens and wonders, applauds or condoles,
as her stronger-minded friend may give her the cue, too unselfish, and perhaps, also, too timid,
to intrude her own less thrilling interests and hopes upon Amy's self-absorption; so that when
the latter comes to an end of her confidences, and has leisure and recollection enough to say,
"And now, Edith, what have you been doing?" she hastily replies, "Oh, nothing particular,"
glad to be able to shield her insignificance in silence.

Amy does not miss the return confidence which makes friendship so sweet; she is too full of
her own affairs to be a listener. Edith is her overflow, whom she leaves saying mentally, "What
a dear little sympathetic thing she is! What should I do without her?"

But what is Edith to do? Where is her overflow? This is a very one-sided friendship: the companionship
of giant and dwarf, which sooner or later must come to an end or be very uncomfortable for
the dwarf. The friends, as I said, need not be alike, need not even be of equal capacity, intellectually
or practically, but the sympathy, rooted in affection, must be mutual; it must be equal give
and take, or the friendship is miserably stunted and incomplete.

And this brings me to speak of the third ingredient in what I have defined as a perfect friendship--mutual
help, which, of course, supposes the two friends to be somewhat different, whether in character,
tastes, or surroundings, so that one can supply what the other lacks.

If two countries in friendly relations both produce one article abundantly, and are both lacking
in some other article, there can be no commerce--which is the symbol of friendly relations--between
them. Both must apply to a third country for that in which both are deficient. And if Edith
cannot get help from Amy when she is in need of it, not necessarily advice, but some new view
of the situation occasioned by Amy's different character or life, and which would enable Edith
to face the trouble or difficulty with more courage or intelligence--if, I say, Edith cannot
get this help from Amy, before long she will find Clara, and the friendship will be dissolved
or cooled; while undiscerning people will say, "How fickle these girls are!"

Not at all. They obey a subtle, spiritual law, which makes it impossible for friendship long
to exist on insufficient food, and when it is said that women are unreasoning and exacting
in their friendships, it is simply because people don't see that it is the nature which is
in them crying out to be fed with that without which it must die.

But if after, it may be, years of affectionate intercourse, you still find that your friend
gives you absolutely nothing which you have not already got--that she communicates no thought
or experience to you that will stimulate your mind or aid you in the practical work of life--do
you not begin to lose interest in her, strive as you will against the consciousness of it?
Does not the friend quit her hold on you and slide down to the level of those of whom an hour
or a letter every few weeks gives you enough? You may feel affectionately towards such, but
not friendship.

Our ideal friends, Alice and Maud, are very different. Alice is studious and thoughtful, leading
a quiet, uneventful life; Maud is high-spirited, devoted to art and music, and sees considerably
more of "the world," as it is called. But they are a constant source of interest and assistance
to each other. Alice's thoughtful mind finds the meaning to the puzzles of Maud's more superficial
existence, who in turn puts the light touches to Alice's grave conclusions, which often give
them reality. These two, as it were, sketch life's island from different points. One takes
the outline of cliff or shore, dashing in what I may call the aggregated tints of forest and
hill; the other paints by turns each special crag or ravine, with their colours in detail;
yet both are correct, and we want both if we are to understand the island.

I can imagine Maud in difficulty thinking, "I must go and see Alice, she will help me out of
my perplexity; she takes such different views of things from those I do, and I have really
come to an end of my ideas."

Or Alice, also in difficulty, though probably of a very different character, exclaiming, "I
only wish Maud were here. She would know just how to arrange this; and I cannot imagine what
to do."

Emerson tells us that as soon as we come up with a man's (or woman's) limitations it is all
over with us. Before that he might have been infinitely alluring and attractive--"a great hope--a
sea to swim in"; but you discover that he has a shore--that the sea is, in fact, a pond--and
you cease to care for it.

There is something in this to explain the languidness or cessation of many girl friendships.
There is nothing more to be learned--nothing more to teach. They have come to an end of their
resources; there is no more help to be got, and the interest dwindles. A long walk or talk
with one another becomes stale, each prefers her own society, and by degrees the unfed affection
cools, and they find themselves unconsciously groping about for souls whose limitations they
have not yet reached.

This is not fickleness; it is Nature; and there is a natural remedy--progress. If day by day
your shores--to use Emerson's simile--widen, if you will not allow your mind to remain at a
standstill, like the stagnant pond, but are constantly receiving and constantly using varied
stores of knowledge and experience, you need not fear to crush your friend by the discovery
of your limitations. She will have to progress too, if she is to come up with that; and as
there is no reasonable probability that you will advance in precisely the same direction, you
will each find increasing interest and help in the other's society.

One thing more the ideal friendship needs, but it is one most girls' friendships, whether ideal
or not, possess. I mean confidence. It is not till the twenties are well into that reserve
and reticence take their place in a woman's friendship; it is not till then that she questions
with herself how far she will trust her friend with her hopes, fears, and troubles. The younger
we are, the more generous, trusting, and unsuspicious we are; which is, I suppose, the great
reason why we never make such particular friends when the period of trust is past. If your
friend is worthy of the name, trust her wholly. How can you sympathise with or help one another
if you only tell half your troubles and difficulties? I do not mean that all should wear their
hearts upon their sleeves. Every girl has, and should have, her private sanctuary of thought,
where none may enter; but in the matters which are discussed between friends let there be no
half-confidences.

I have tried to sketch what I call an ideal friendship. If they are rare, they are possible--most
possible if you only study their construction.

I think all thoughtful and imaginative girls long for this ideal friendship; but I wonder if
they all reflect that the ideality does not all depend on the friend, but on themselves. If
it takes two most emphatically to make a quarrel, it needs two to make a friendship. Do your
best to make it ideal.

I have known such a friendship; I know that it is possible; and I know that it is one of the
most perfect experiences our life can give us.

You do not need to live exceptional lives in order to love, sympathise, and help. Experience
is the best teacher, and gives lessons to all. Use that intelligently as a means of moral,
mental, spiritual progress, remembering that it does not come to you by chance, but rather
as the work of

                             "The hands
    Which reach through Nature, moulding men."

AN UNPREACHED SERMON.

Such an odd thing happened a few minutes afterwards. I was sitting quite quietly in my corner,
turning over in my mind all the arguments with which I had assailed Aunt Agatha that Sunday
afternoon, and watching the pink glow of the firelight in contrast to the whiteness of the
snow outside, when the door bell rang, and almost the next moment Uncle Keith came into the room.

I suppose he must have overlooked me entirely, for he went up to Aunt Agatha and sat down beside
her.

"Sweetheart," he said, taking her hand, and I should hardly have recognised his voice, "I have
been thinking about you all the way home, and what a pleasant sight my wife's face would be
after my long walk through the snow and----" But here Aunt Agatha must have given him a warning
look, for he stopped rather abruptly, and said, "Hir-rumph" twice over, and Aunt Agatha blushed
just as though she were a girl.

I could not help laughing a little to myself as I went out of the room to tell Patience to
bring in the tea, and yet that sentence of Uncle Keith touched me somehow. Were middle-aged
people capable of that sort of love? Did youth linger so long in them? I had imagined those
two such a staid, matter-of-fact couple; they had come together so late in life, that one never
dreamt of any possible romance in such a courtship, and yet he could call Aunt Agatha "Sweetheart"
in a voice that was not the least drawling. At that moment one would not have called him so
plain and insignificant with that kind look on his face. I suppose he keeps that look for Aunt
Agatha, for I remember she once told me that she had never seen such a good face as Uncle Keith's
"not handsome, Merle, but so thoroughly good."

Patience was toasting the muffins in her bright little kitchen, so I sat down and watched her.
I was rather partial to Patience; she was a pretty, neat-looking creature, and I always thought
it a great pity that she was engaged to a journeyman bootmaker, who aspired to be a preacher.
I never could approve of Reuben Locke, though Aunt Agatha spoke well of him; he was such a
weak, pale-faced young man; and I think a man, to be one, ought to have some spirit in him,
and not possess only the womanish virtues.

"How is Reuben, Patience?" I asked, somewhat amiably, just for the pleasure of seeing our little
handmaid's dimples come into view.

"Reuben's but poorly, miss," replied Patience, as she buttered another smoking muffin, the
last of the pile. "He was preaching at Whitechapel the other night and caught a cold and sore
throat; his mother says he will not be at chapel to-night."

"I do not approve of street preaching myself," I remarked, a little severely.

"Indeed, miss," replied Patience, innocently, as she prepared to carry in the tea-tray, "Reuben
always tells me that the Apostles were street preachers, and Reuben is as clear as Gospel in
what he says." But here the drawing-room bell broke off Patience's argument, and left me somewhat
worsted. I went to church by myself that evening, and I am ashamed to say I heard very little
of the sermon. I knew Aunt Agatha would be taking advantage of my long absence to retail what
she termed my preposterous scheme to Uncle Keith, and that I should have the benefit of his
opinion on my return, and this thought made me restless.

I was not wrong in my surmise. Aunt Agatha looked a little pale and subdued, as though she
had been shedding a few tears over my delinquencies, but Uncle Keith was simply inscrutable;
when he chose, his face could present a perfect blank.

"Hir-rumph, my dear, what is this your aunt tells me, that you are going to Prince's Gate to-morrow
morning to offer your services as nurse in a gentleman's family?"

"Yes, Uncle Keith."

"Do you mean to tell me seriously that you have really made up your mind to take this step?"

"Oh, I am quite serious, I assure you."

"Your aunt's objections and mine do not count for much, then?"

"I should be sorry to go against your wishes or Aunt Agatha's," I returned, trying to keep
cool; but his manner, as usual, aggravated me; it said so plainly, "What a silly child you
are, and yet you think yourself a woman," "but I must do as I think right in this matter. I
hope to prove to you and everyone else that there is nothing derogatory in the work I mean
to undertake. It is not what I would choose, perhaps, but everything else is closed to me,"
thinking sorrowfully of my life-long misfortune, as I always called it, and my repressed longings
for hospital training.

"Perhaps if you waited something else might turn up." But I shook my head at this.

"I have waited too long already, Uncle Keith; idleness soon becomes a habit."

"Then if you have made up your mind, it is useless to try and alter it," returned Uncle Keith,
in a slightly ironical tone, and he actually took up the volume he was reading in a way that
showed he had dismissed the subject. I was never more astonished in my life; never had Uncle
Keith so completely baffled me.

I had spent the whole time during which I ought to have been listening to the sermon, in recapitulating
the heads of my arguments in favour of this very scheme; I would show Uncle Keith how clearly
and logically I could work out the subject.

I had thought out quite an admirable little essay on feminine work in the nineteenth century
by the time Mr. Wright had finished his discourse. I meant to have cited the Challoners as
an example. Aunt Agatha had stayed in their neighbourhood of Oldfield just before her marriage,
and had often paid visits at Longmead and Glen Cottage.

The eldest Miss Challoner--Nan, I think they called her--was just preparing for her own wedding,
and Aunt Agatha often told me what a beautiful girl she was, and what a fine, intelligent creature
the second sister Phillis seemed. She was engaged to a young clergyman at Hadleigh, and there
had been some talk of a double wedding, only Nan's father-in-law, Mr. Mayne, of Longmead, had
been rather cross at the notion, so Phillis's was to be postponed until the autumn.

All the neighbourhood of Oldfield had been ringing with the strange exploits of these young
ladies. One little fact had leaked out after another; it was said their own cousin, Sir Henry
Challoner, of Gilsbank, had betrayed the secret, though he always vowed his wife had a hand,
or rather a tongue, in the business; but anyhow, there was a fine nine days' gossip over the
matter.

It seemed that some time previously Mrs. Challoner and her three daughters had sustained severe
losses, and the three girls, instead of losing courage, had put their shoulders to the wheel,
and had actually set up as dressmakers at Hadleigh, carrying on their business in a most masterly
fashion, until the unexpected return of their relative, Sir Harry Challoner, from Australia,
with plenty of money at his disposal, broke up the dressmaking business, and reinstated them
at Glen Cottage.

A few of their friends had been much offended with them, but as it was understood that Lady
Fitzroy had spoken warmly of their moral courage and perseverance, it had become the fashion
to praise them. Aunt Agatha had often quoted them to me, saying she had never met more charming
girls, and adding more than once how thoroughly she respected their independence, and of course
in recalling the Challoners I thought I should have added my crowning argument.

There was so much, too, that I longed to say in favour of my theory. The love of little children
was very strong with me. I had often been pained as I walked through the streets at seeing
tired children dragged along or shaken angrily by some coarse, uneducated nurse. It had always
seemed rather a pitiful idea to me that children from their infancy should be in hourly contact
with rough, menial natures. "Surely," I would say to myself, "the mother's place must be in
her nursery; she can find no higher duty than this, to watch over her little ones; even if
her position or rank hinder her constant supervision, why need she relegate her maternal duties
to uneducated women? Are there no poor gentlewomen in the world who would gladly undertake
such a work from very love, and who would refuse to believe for one moment they were losing
caste in discharging one of the holiest and purest duties in life?

"What an advantage to the children," I imagined myself saying in answer to some objection on
Uncle Keith's part, never dreaming that all this eloquence would be silenced by masculine cunning.

"What an advantage to these little creatures to hear English pure and undefiled from their
cradles, and to be trained to habits of refinement and good manners by merely instinctively
following the example before their eyes. Children are such copyists, one shudders to think
of these impressionable little beings being permitted by their natural guardians to take their
earliest lessons from some uneducated person.

"Women are crying out for work, Uncle Keith," I continued, carrying my warfare into a fresh
quarter; but, alas! this, with the rest of my eloquence, died a natural death on my way home.
"There are too many of the poor things in this world, and the female market is overstocked.
They are invading telegraph offices, and treading on the heels of business men, but sheer pride
and stupidity prevent them from trying to open nursery doors."

"Unladylike to be a servant," another imaginary objection on Uncle Keith's part. "Oh, fie,
Uncle Keith! this from you, who read your Bible and go to church; and yet I remember a certain
passage, 'Whosoever will be chief among you let him be your servant,' which has hallowed the
very idea of service ever since.

"To serve others seems the very meaning of womanhood; in some sense, a woman serves all the
days of her life. No, I am not farfetched and unpractical." Another supposed masculine tirade.
"I have thought over the whole thing most carefully. I am not only working for myself, but
for others. I want to open the eyes of my generation, and, like the Challoners, to lead a new
crusade against the mighty sham of conventionality. Understand me, Uncle Keith, I do not say
to these young gentlewomen, put your pride in your pocket and wheel your perambulator with
the twins, or carry the baby into the park before the eyes of your aristocratic acquaintance;
that would be unnecessary and foolish; you may leave that part to the under-nurse, who brings
your meals and scours your nurseries; I simply say to them, if you have no capacity for teaching,
if nature has unfitted you for other work, and you are too proud and conscientious to live
a dragging, dependent life under the roof of some overburthened relative, take the charge of
some aristocratic nursery. Do not think it beneath your womanhood to feed and wash and clothe
an infant, or to watch over weak, toddling creatures. Your work may be humble, but you will
grow to love it, and if no one else will put the theory to the test, I, Merle Fenton, will
do so, though I must take the plunge unaided, and alone."

But all these feeling observations were locked up in my own inner consciousness, for during
the remainder of the evening Uncle Keith simply ignored the subject and read his book with
a pretence of being perfectly absorbed in it, though I am certain that his eyes twinkled mischievously
whenever he looked in my direction, as though he were quite aware of my flood of repressed oratory.

I determined to have it out with Aunt Agatha, so I followed her into her room, and asked her
in a peevish voice what she meant by saying Uncle Keith would be so angry with me, as he had
not raised a single objection, and, of course, as silence meant consent, I should most certainly
keep my appointment at Prince's Gate.

Aunt Agatha looked a little distressed as she answered me.

"To tell you the truth, Merle, I did not quite understand your uncle myself; I expected a very
different reception of my news."

"Tell me all about it from the very beginning," I returned, eagerly. "Patience has made such
a nice fire, because she said she was afraid you had a cold, and I can just sit by it and brush
out my hair while we talk."

"But I am tired and sleepy, child, and after all there is not much to tell," objected Aunt
Agatha; but she was far too good-natured to refuse for all that, so she seated herself, dear
soul, in the big chair--that she had christened Idleness--and tried to remember what I wished
to hear.

"I told him everything, Merle: how your one little defect hindered you, poor child, from being
a nursery governess or companion, and how, in spite of this serious obstacle, you were determined
to work and be independent."

"Well, and did he say nothing to all that?" I asked, for I knew in what a feeling manner Aunt
Agatha would have described my difficulties.

"Oh, yes; he said, 'poor little thing,' in the kindest possible way, 'and quite right--very
proper,' when I spoke of your desire for work."

"Well," rather impatiently.

"He listened very attentively until I read him out the advertisement, but that seemed to upset
him, for he burst out laughing, and I thought he would never stop. I was half crying by that
time, for you had worried me to death all the afternoon, Merle, but nothing I could say would
make him grave for a long time. He said once, 'What could have put such a thing into her head?'
and then he laughed again as though the idea amused him, and then he rubbed his hands and muttered,
'What an original child it is; there is no deficiency of brain power as far as I can see; who
would have dreamt of such a thing?' and so on."

"Then I may flatter myself that Uncle Keith approves of my scheme," I observed, stiffly, for
I was much offended at the idea of his laugh.

"Oh dear, no," returned Aunt Agatha, in an alarmed voice, "he expressed his disapproval very
strongly; he said it was all very well in theory, and that, on the whole, he agreed with you
that the nursery was undoubtedly a lady-like sphere, but he was far from sure that your scheme
would be practical. He foresaw all kinds of difficulties, and that he did not consider you
at all the person for such a position."

"Why did not Uncle Keith say all this to me himself?" I demanded.

"Because he said it would only be sowing the wind to raise the whirlwind. In an argument he
declares women always have the best of it, because they can talk the fastest, and never will
own they are beaten; to raise objections would only be to strengthen you more in your purpose.
I think," finished Aunt Agatha, in her softest voice, "that he hoped your plan would die a
natural death, for he recommended me to withdraw all opposition."

Oh, the cunning of these men. I would not have believed all this of Uncle Keith. I was far
too angry to talk any more to Aunt Agatha; I only commanded my voice sufficiently to say that
I fully intended to keep my appointment the next day; and as she only looked at me very sadly
and said nothing, I had no excuse for lingering any longer, so I took up my candlestick and
marched into my own room.

