     'Tawhiti, on the sacred beach
     The purple pandanus is thine!
     How soft the breakers come and go,
     How bright the fragrant berries blow,
     The fern-tree scents the shining reach,
     And Tanê dances down the brine!'

Such is the poetry of the Polynesian fairies. It is addicted to frequent repetitions of the
same obvious remark, and it does not contain a Criticism of Life, so we do not give any more
of it. But, such as it was, it seemed to afford great pleasure to the dancers, probably because
every one of them could compose any amount of it himself, at will, and every dancer was 'his
own poet,' than which nothing can be more salubrious and delightful.

Thus the dance and the revel swang and swayed through the silver halls till the green lights
began to glow with gold and scarlet and crimson, burning into dawn. Then came a sudden noise,
like thunder, crashing and roaring through the silence of the sea. Queen Mab clapped her hands,
and, in one moment, the Sacred Isle had flitted back to its place, and the music stopped, and
the dancers vanished.

Then, as the island swiftly receded, came a monstrous wave, and no wonder, which raised the
surface of the sea to a level with the topmost cliff of the Calling Place. Queen Mab, who had
flown to a pine-tree there, saw the salt water fall back down the steeps like a cataract, and
heard a voice say, 'The blooming reef has bolted.' Another voice remarked something about 'submarine
volcanic action.' These words came from a level with her head, where the Queen saw, stranded
in a huge tree, a boat with a funnel that poured forth smoke, and with wheels that still rapidly
and automatically revolved in mid air. In fact, a missionary steamer had been raised by the
mighty tidal wave to the level of the cliff. Then the sailors climbed into the trees, talking
freely, in a speech which Queen Mab knew for English, but not at all the English she had been
accustomed to hear. Also the sailors had among them men with full, sleek, shining faces, wearing
tall hats and long coats, and carrying little books whose edges flashed in the sun. And Queen
Mab did not like the look of them. Then she heard the sailors and the men in black coats making
straight for the very pine-tree in which she was sitting. So she fled into a myrtle-bush, and
behold, the sailors chopped every branch of the pine clean away, and changed the beautiful
tree into a bare pole. Then they brought out ropes, and a great piece of thin cloth, white
with red and blue cross marks on it, and they tugged it up, and it floated from the top of
the tree. Then the people from the ship gathered round it, and sang songs, whereof one repeated,

'Rule Britannia!'

and the other contained the words,

'Every prospect pleases, And only Man is vile.'

Soon some specimens of vile Man, some of the human beings of Samoa, came round, beautiful women
dressed in feathers and leaves, carrying flowers and fruit, which they offered to the men in
black coats and white neckties. But the men in black coats held up their hands in horror, and
shut their eyes, while some of them ran to the boat and brought bonnets, and boots, and cotton
gowns, and pocket-handkerchiefs, and gave them to the women. And the women, putting them on
anyhow, walked about as proud as peacocks; while the men in black coats explained that, unless
they wore these things, and did and refrained from many matters, they would all be punished
dreadfully after they were dead. Now, while the women were crying at such glad tidings, came
another awful crash and shock, which indeed, like the previous noise that had frightened the
dancers, was produced by a ship's gun. And another cloud of black smoke floated round the point,
and another set of sailors got out and cut the branches off a tree, and ran up a flag which
was black and red and yellow. Then those sailors (who had men with red beards and spectacles
among them) cried Hock! and sang the Wacht am Rhein. Thereupon the sailors of the first steamer,
with a horrid yell, rushed on the tree under the new flag, and were cutting it down, when some
of the singers of the Wacht am Rhein pointed a curious little machine that way and began to
turn a handle. Thereon the most dreadful cracking sounds arose, cracking and crashing; fire
flew, and some of the first set of sailors fell down and writhed on the sand, while the rest
fled to their boat. Several of the native women also fell down bleeding and dying in their
new cotton gowns and their bonnets, for they had been dancing about while the sailors were
hacking at the tree with the black and red and yellow flag.

Seeing all this, Queen Mab also saw that Samoa was no longer a place for her. She did not understand
what was happening, nor know that a peaceful English annexation had been disturbed by a violent
German annexation, for which the English afterwards apologised. Queen Mab also conceived a
prejudice against missionaries, which, perhaps, was justified by her experience. For, in the
matter of missionaries, she was unlucky. The specimens she had observed were of the wrong kind.
She might have met missionaries as learned as Mr. Codrington, as manly as Livingstone, as brave
and pure as Bishop Pattison> who was a martyr indeed, and gave his life for the heathen people.
Yes, Queen Mab was unlucky in her missionaries.

CHAPTER II. -- DISILLUSIONS.

     'The time is come,' the walrus said,
     'To talk of many things.'
     'Alice in Wonderland.'

It was on April 1, the green young year's beginning, that Mab arrived in England. She had hired
a seagull--no, the seagull offered his services for nothing; I was forgetting that it was not
an English, but a Polynesian seagull--to take her across. She did not altogether admire the
missionaries, as we have seen, in their proceedings, the fact being that she had grown used
to Polynesians in the course of the centuries she had spent among them, and the missionaries
were such a remarkable contrast to the Polynesians. But their advent was certainly a source
of mental improvement to her, for fairies as we know, understand things almost by instinct,
and Queen Mab, one evening, chanced to overhear a good deal of the missionaries' conversation.
She learned, for instance, the precise meanings, and the bearings on modern theology and metaphysics,
of such words as kathenotheism, hagiography, transubstantiation, eschatology, Positivist, noumenony
begriffy vorstellung, Paulisimus, wissenschaft, and others, quite new to her, and of great
benefit in general conversation.

With this additional knowledge she started on the voyage, leaving her faithful subjects to
take care of the island and themselves, till she came back to tell them whether their return
to England would ever be practicable. She landed in Great Britain, then, on April 1, and the
seagull went across to the Faroe Islands and waited there till the time which she had appointed
for him to come and carry her back to Polynesia.

Queen Mab found England a good deal altered. There were still fairy circles in the grass; but
they were attributed, not to fairy dances, but to unscientific farming and the absence of artificial
phosphates. The country did not smell of April and May, but of brick-kilns and the manufacture
of chemicals. The rivers, which she had left bright and clear, were all black and poisonous.
Water for drinking purposes was therefore supplied by convoys from the Apollinaris and other
foreign wells, and it was thought that, if a war broke out, the natives of England would die
of thirst. This was not the only disenchantment of Queen Mab. She found that in Europe she
was an anachronism. She did not know, at first, what the word meant, but the sense of it gradually
dawned upon her. Now there is always something uncomfortable about being an anachronism; but
still people may become accustomed to it, and even take a kind of a pride in it, if they are
only anachronisms on the right side--so far in the van of the bulk of humanity, for instance,
that the bulk of humanity considers them not wholly in their right minds. There must surely
be a sense of superiority in knowing oneself a century or two in front of one's fellow-creatures
that counterbalances the sense of solitude. Queen Mab had no such consolation. She was an anachronism
hundreds of years on the wrong side; in fact, a relic of Paganism.

Of course she was acquainted with the language of all the beasts and birds and insects, and
she counted on their befriending her, however much men had changed. Her brief experience of
modern sailors and missionaries, whether English or German, had indeed convinced her that men
were, even now, far from perfection. But it was a crushing blow to find that all the beasts
were traitors, and all the insects.

If it had not been for the loyal birds she would have gone back to Polynesia at once; but they
flocked faithfully to her standard, led by the Owl, the wisest of all feathered things, who
had lived too long, and had too much good feeling to ignore fairies, though he was, perhaps,
just a little of a prig. The insects, however, who, considering the size of their brains, one
might have thought would believe in fairies and in the supernatural in general, if anybody
did, behaved disgracefully, and the ant was the worst all. She started by saying that her brain
was larger in proportion than the brain of any other insect. Perhaps Queen Mab was not aware
that Sir John Lubbock had devoted a volume to the faculties and accomplishments of ants, together
with some minor details relating to bees and wasps, of which these insects magnified the importance.
Under these circumstances, it was impossible for her to countenance a mere vulgar superstition,
like faith in fairies. She begged leave to refer Queen Mab to various works in the International
Scientific Series for a complete explanation of her motives, and mentioned, casually, that
she also held credentials from Mr. Romanes. Then, explaining that her character with the sluggard
was at stake, she hurried away. Evidently she did not care to be seen talking to a fairy. It
may be mentioned here, however, that Queen Mab's faith in entomological nature was considerably
shaken by the fact that when no one was looking at her the ant always folded up her work and
went to sleep--though, if surprised in a siesta, she explained that she had only just succumbed
to complete exhaustion, and lamented that mind, though infinitely superior to, was not yet
independent of matter.

The bees hummed much to the same tune. The Queen Bee recommended our foreigner to read a work
on 'Bees and Wasps,' with a few minor details relating to Ants, by Sir John Lubbock, in the
International Scientific Series. She was not, indeed quite so timid about her reputation as
the ant, and even volunteered to give her visitor an account of the formation of hexagonal
cells by Natural Selection, culled from the pages of the 'Origin of Species'; but she observed
that, though her brain might be smaller in proportion than the brains of some inferior insects,
it was of finer quality, what there was of it, and that fairies were merely an outgrowth of
the anthropomorphic tendency which had been noticed by distinguished writers as persisting
even in the present day. Then she departed, humming gaily, to the tune of a popular hymn in
the 'Ancient and Modern' collection:

     'And gather honey all the day
     From every opening flower?

But the whole sad history of Queen Mab's failures to enlist sympathy and protection it would
be vain to tell. The fishes, all that were left of them, took her part; but they lived in the
water, and she had never had very much to do with them. In the birds she found her true allies.
They were not attached to the higher civilisation. The higher civilisation, so far, had treated
them inconsiderately, at sparrow clubs. The Owl talked a good deal about the low moral tone
of the human race in this respect, and was pessimistic about it, failing to perceive that higher
types of organisms always like to signify their superiority over lower ones by shooting them,
or otherwise making their lives a burden. The Owl, however, was a very talented bird, and one
felt that even his fallacies were a mark of attainments beyond those common to his race. He
had read and thought a great deal, and could tell Queen Mab about almost anything she asked
him. This was pleasant, and she sat with him on a very high oak in Epping Forest, above a pond,
and made observations. It was lovely weather, just the weather for sitting on the uppermost
branches of a great oak, and she began to feel like herself again. She had forgotten to put
her invisible cloak on; but as she was only half a foot high, and dressed in green, no one
saw her up there. Having reached the Forest at night, she had met as yet with few British subjects;
but the Owl explained that she would see hundreds of them before the day was over, coming to
admire Nature.

'The English people,' he observed, 'are great worshippers of Nature, and write many guide-books
about her, some on large paper at ten guineas the volume. I have sometimes fancied, indeed,'
he added, doubtfully,' that it was their own capacity for admiring Nature that they admired,
but that were a churlish thought. For, do they not run innumerable excursion trains for the
purpose of bowing at her shrine? Epping Forest must be one of Nature's favourite haunts, from
the numbers of people who come here to worship her, especially on Bank Holidays. Those are
her high festivals, when her adorers troop down, and build booths and whirligigs and circuses
in her honour, and gamble, and ride donkeys, and shy sticks at cocoanuts before her. Also they
partake of sandwiches and many other appropriate offerings at the shrine, and pour libations
of bottled ale, and nectar, and zoedone, and brandy, and soda-water, and ginger-beer. They
always leave the corks about, and confectionery paper bags, for the next people to gaze upon
who come to worship Nature: you may see them now, if you look down. I have often thought those
corks, and cigar-ends, and such tokens that the British public always leaves behind it, must
be symbolical of something--offerings to Nature, you know, an invariable part of the rite,
and typical--well, the question is, of what are they typical?' mused the Owl, getting beyond
his depth, as he had a way of doing.

'However,' he resumed, 'it is certain that their devotion is strong, and they offer to Nature
the sacrifices dearest to their own hearts, and probably dearest, therefore, to the heart of
Nature. They cut their names all over her shrine, which is, I have no doubt, a welcome attention;
but they do not look at her any more than they can help, for they stay where the beer is, and
they are very warm, and flirt.'

'What is "flirt"?'

'A recreation,' said the Owl decorously; 'a pastime.'

'And does nobody believe in fairies?' sighed Queen Mab.

'No, or at least hardly anyone. A few of the children, perhaps, and a very, very few grown-up
people--persons who believe in Faith-healing and Esoteric Buddhism, and Thought-reading, and
Arbitration, and Phonetic Spelling, can believe in anything, except what their mothers taught
them on their knees. All of these are in just now.'

'What do you mean by "in"?'

'In fashion; and what is fashionable is to be believed in. Why, you might be the fashion again,'
said the Owl excitedly. 'Why not? and then people would believe in you. What a game it all
is, to be sure! But the fashions of this kind don't last,' the bird added; 'they get snuffed
out by the scientific men.'

'Tell me exactly who the scientific men are,' said the fairy. 'I have heard so much about them
since I came.'

'They are the men.' sighed the Owl, 'who go about with microscopes, that is, instruments for
looking into things as they are not meant to be looked at and seeing them as they were never
intended to be seen. They have put everything under their microscopes, except stars and First
Causes; but they had to take telescopes to the stars, because they were so far off; and First
Causes they examined by stethoscopes, which each philosopher applied to his own breast. But,
as all the breasts are different, they now call First Causes no business of theirs. They make
most things their business, though. They have had a good deal of trouble with the poets, because
the poets liked to put themselves and their critics under their own microscopes, and they objected
to the microscopes of the scientific men. You know what poets are?'

'Yes, indeed,' said Queen Mab, feeling at home on the subject. 'I have forgotten a good many
things, I daresay, with living in Polynesia, but not about the poets. I remember Shakespeare
very well, and Herrick is at my court in the Pacific.'

'Ah, he was a great man, Shakespeare, almost too large for a microscope!' said the Owl reflectively.
They have put him under a good many since he died, however, especially German lenses. But we
were talking about the philosophers--another name for the scientific men --the men who don't
know everything.'

'I should have thought they did,' said Queen Mab.

'No,' said the Owl. 'It is the theologians who know everything, or at least they used to do
so. But lately it has become such a mark of mental inferiority to know everything, that they
are always casting it in each other's teeth. It has grown into a war-cry with both parties:
"You think you know everything," and it is hard for a bird to find out how it all began and
what it is all about. I believe it sprang originally out of the old microscope difficulty.
The philosophers wanted to put theology under the microscope, and the theologians excommunicated
microscopes, and said theology ought never to be looked at except with the Eye of Faith. Now
the philosophers are borrowing an eye of Faith from the theologians, and adding it on to their
own microscope like another lens, and they have detected a kind of Absolute, a sort of a Something,
the Higher Pantheism. I could never tell you all about it, and I don't even know whether they
have really put theology under the microscope, or only theologians.'

'And the people worship St. George still?' asked Queen Mab, who, being only a fairy, and owning
no soul, had private theories of belief, based merely on observation of popular customs.

'Oh yes, St. George and the Dragon. They have them both together on the beads of their rosaries--the
yellow things they count, and pray with, or pay with.' said the Owl rather vaguely.

'St. George and the Dragon! Why, St. George killed the Dragon.'

'Ah! the Dragon was not really killed.' said the Owl coolly. 'It was only syncope, and he kept
quiet for a time, and grew seven other heads worse than the first. Some say St George worships
the Dragon now, himself; but people always are saying unpleasant things, and probably it isn't
true. At all events, the English worship St George and the Dragon till they don't seem to know
which is which.'

'What, has St George grown like the Dragon then?' cried Queen Mab distractedly, wringing her hands.

'Oh no,' replied the Owl, with some condescending pity for the foreigner's ignorance. 'But
the Dragon has grown vastly like St. George.'

'Is that all they worship?' said Queen Mab.

'Oh no, there are plenty of other patent religions. A hundred religions and only one sauce--melted
butter, as the Frenchman said, but the sauce has outlived many of the patent religions.'

'I don't understand how religions are patent.' remarked her inquisitive Majesty.

'We call it a patent religion.' said the Owl, 'when it has only been recently invented, and
is so insufficiently advertised, that it is only to be found in a very few houses indeed, and
is not a commodity in general request. The Patentees then call themselves a Church, and devote
their energies to advertising the new "Cult," as they generally style it. For example, you
have Esoteric Buddhism, so named because it is not Buddhism, nor Esoteric. It is imported by
an American company with a manufactory in Thibet, and has had some success among fashionable
people.'

'What do the Esoteric Buddhists worship?'

'Teacups and cigarettes, standing where they ought not.' replied the owl; 'but I believe these
things are purely symbolical, and that au fond the Priestess of Esoteric Buddhism herself adores
the Dragon.'

'That is enough about that. Are there no patent religions warranted free from Dragon worship?'

'Well.' said the Owl dubiously, 'there are the Altruists. 'They worship humanity. As a rule,
you may have noticed that adorers think the object of adoration better than themselves,--an
unexpected instance in most cases, of the modesty of their species. But the Altruists worship
Humanity.'

'And they don't think Humanity better than themselves?'

'Far from it. Their leading idea is that they are the cream of Humanity. Their principal industry
is to scold and lecture Humanity. Whatever Humanity may be doing--making war or making peace,
or making love to its Deceased Wife's Sister--the Altruists cry out, "Don't do that." And they
preach sermons to Humanity, always beginning, "We think;" and they publish their remarks in
high-class periodicals, and they invariably show that everyone, and especially Mr. Herbert
Spencer, is in the wrong, and nobody pays the slightest attention to them. In their way the
Altruists do to others as they would have others do to them, To my mind, while they pretend
that Humanity is what they worship, they really want to be worshipped by Humanity.'

'Are there many of this sect?' asked Mab.

'There were twenty-seven of them.' said the Owl, 'but they quarrelled about canonising the
Emperor Tiberius, and now there are only thirteen and a half.'

'Where do you get the fraction?' said Mab.

'That is a mystery.' said the Owl. 'Every religion should have its mystery, and the Altruists
possess only this example; it is a cheap one, but they are not a luxurious sect.'

'Well.' said Mab mournfully at last, 'I must go back to Samoa; there is too much mystery here
for me. But who is that?'

She broke off suddenly, for a new and mysterious object had just entered the glade, and was
advancing towards the pool.

'Hush!' said the Owl. 'Do take care. It is a scientific man--a philosopher.'

It was a tall, thin personage, with spectacles and a knapsack, and what reminded Queen Mab
of a small green landing-net, but was really intended to catch butterflies. He came up to the
pond, and she imagined he was going to fish; but no, he only unfastened his knapsack and took
some small phials and a tin box out of it Then, bending down to the edge of the water, he began
to skim its surface cautiously with a ladle and empty the contents into one of his phials.
Suddenly a look of delight came into his face, and he uttered a cry--'Stephanoceros!'

Queen Mab thought it was an incantation, and, trembling with fear, she relaxed her hold of
the bough and fell. Not into the pond! She had wings, of course, and half petrified with horror
though she was, she yet fluttered away from that stagnant water. But alas, in the very effort
to escape, she had caught the eye of the Professor; he sprang up--pond, animalcule all forgotten
in the chase of this extraordinary butterfly. The fairy's courage failed her: her presence
of mind vanished, and the wild gyrations of the owl, who, too late, realised the peril of his
companion, only increased her confusion. In another moment she was a prisoner under the butterfly-net.

Beaming with delight, the philosopher turned her carefully into the tin box, shut the lid and
hastened home, too much enraptured with his prize even to pause to secure the valuable Stephanoceros.

But Queen Mab had fainted, as even fairies must do at such a terrible crisis; and perhaps it
was as well that she had, for the professor forbore to administer chloroform, under the impression
that his lovely captive had completely succumbed. He put her, therefore, straight into a tall
glass bottle, and began to survey her carefully, walking round and round. Truly, he had never
seen such a remarkable butterfly.

CHAPTER III. -- THE ORIGIN OF RELIGION.

     'Rough draughts of Man's Beginning God!'
     Swinburne.

When Queen Mab recovered consciousness she heard the sound of violent voices in the room before
she opened her eyes, which she did half hoping to find herself the victim of some terrible
delusion. But the sight of the professor, standing not a yard away, brought a fatal conviction
to her heart. It was too true. Was there ever a more undesirable position for a fairy, accustomed
to perfect freedom, and nourished by honey and nectar, than to be closely confined in a tall
bottle, with smooth hard slippery walls that she could not pierce, and nothing to live upon
but a glass-stopper! It was absurd; but it was also terrible. How fervently she wished, now,
that the missionaries had never come to Polynesia.

But the professor was not alone, two of his acquaintances were there--a divine veering towards
the modern school, and a poet--the ordinary poet of satire and Mr. Besant's novels, with an
eye-glass, who held that the whole duty of poets at least was to transfer the meanderings of
the inner life, or as much of them as were in any degree capable of transmission, to immortal
foolscap..Unfortunately, as he observed with a mixture of pride and regret, the workings of
his soul were generally so ethereal as to baffle expression and comprehension; and, he was
wont to say, mixing up metaphors at a great rate, that he could only stand, like the High Priest
of the Delphic oracle, before the gates of his inner life, to note down such fragmentary utterances
as 'foamed up from the depths of that divine chaos.' for the benefit of inquiring minds with
a preference for the oracular. He added that cosmos was a condition of grovelling minds, and
that while the thoughts, faculties, and emotions of an ordinary member of society might fitly
be summed up in the epithet 'microcosm.' his own nature could be appropriately described only
by that of 'microchaos.' In which opinion the professor always fully coincided.

With the two had entered the professor's little boy, a motherless child of eight, who walked
straight up to the bottle.

No sooner did the child's eyes light on the vessel than a curious thing occurred. He fell down
on his knees, bowed his head, and held up his hands.

'Great Heavens!' cried the professor, forgetting himself, 'what do I behold! My child is praying
(a thing he never was taught to do), and praying to a green butterfly! Hush! hush!' the professor
went on, turning to his friends. 'This is terrible, but most important. The child has never
been allowed to hear anything about the supernatural--his poor mother died when he was in the
cradle--and I have scrupulously shielded him from all dangerous conversation. There is not
a prayer-book in the house, the maids are picked Agnostics, from advanced families, and I am
quite certain that my boy has never even heard of the existence of a bogie.'

The poet whistled: the divine took up his hat, and, with a pained look, was leaving the room.

'Stop, stop!' cried the professor, 'he is doing something odd.'

The child had taken out of his pocket certain small black stones of a peculiar shape. So absorbed
was he that he never noticed the presence of the men.

He kissed the stones and arranged them in a curious pattern on the floor, still kneeling, and
keeping his eye on Mab in her bottle. At last he placed one strangely shaped pebble in the
centre, and then began to speak in a low, trembling voice, and in a kind of cadence:

     'Oh! you that I have tried to see,
     Oh! you that I have heard in the night,
     Oh! you that live in the sky and the water;
     Now I see you, now you have come:
     Now you will tell me where you live,
     And what things are, and who made them.
     Oh Dala, these stones are yours;
     These are the goona stones I find,
     And play with when I think of you.
     Oh Dala, be my friend, and never leave me
     Alone in the dark night.'

'As I live, it's a religious service, the worship of a green butterfly!' said the professor.
At his voice the child turned round, and seeing the men, looked very much ashamed of himself.

'Come here, my dear old man.' said the professor to the child, who came on being called.

'What were you doing?--who taught you to say all those funny things?'

The little fellow looked frightened.

'I didn't remember you were here.' he said; 'they are things I say when I play by myself.'

'And who is Dala?'

The boy was blushing painfully.

'Oh, I didn't mean you to hear, it's just a game of mine. I play at there being somebody I
can't see, who knows what I am doing; a friend.'

'And nobody taught you, not Jane or Harriet?'

Now Harriet and Jane were the maids.

'You never saw anybody play at that kind of game before?'

'No,' said the child, 'nobody ever.' 'Then,' cried the professor, in a loud and blissful voice,
'we have at last discovered the origin of religion. It isn't Ghosts. It isn't the Infinite.
It is worshipping butterflies, with a service of fetich stones. The boy has returned to it
by an act of unconscious inherited memory, derived from Palaeolithic Man, who must, therefore,
have been the native of a temperate climate, where there were green lepidoptera. Oh, my friends,
what a thing is inherited memory! In each of us there slumber all the impressions of all our
predecessors, up to the earliest Ascidian. See how the domesticated dog,' cried the professor,
forgetting that he was not lecturing in Albemarle Street, 'see how the domesticated dog, by
inherited memory, turns round on the hearthrug before he curls up to sleep! He is unconsciously
remembering the long grasses in which his wild ancestors dwelt. Also observe this boy, who
has retained an unconscious recollection of the earliest creed of prehistoric man. Behold him
instinctively, and I may say automatically, cherishing fetich stones (instead of marbles, like
other boys) and adoring that green insect in the glass bottle! Oh Science,' he added rapturously,
'what will Mr. Max Müller say now? The Infinite! Bosh, it's a butterfly!'

'It is my own Dala, come to play with me,' said the boy.

'It is a fairy,' exclaimed the poet, examining Mab through his eyeglass. This he said, not
that he believed in fairies any more than publishers believed in him, but partly because it
was a pose he affected, partly to 'draw' the professor.

The professor replied that fairies were unscientific, and even unthinkable, and the divine
declared that they were too heterodox even for the advanced state of modern theology, and had
been condemned by several councils, which is true. And the professor ran through all the animal
kingdoms and sub-kingdoms very fast, and proved quite conclusively, in a perfect cataract of
polysyllables, that fairies didn't belong to any of them. While the professor was recovering
breath, the divine observed, in a somewhat aggrieved tone, that he for his part found men and
women enough for him, and too much sometimes. He also wished to know whether, if his talented
but misguided friend required something ethereal, angels were not sufficient, without his having
recourse to Pagan mythology; and whether he considered Pagan mythology suitable to the pressing
needs of modern society, with a large surplus female population, and to the adjustment of the
claims of reason and religion.

The poet replied, 'Oh, don't bother me with your theological conundrums. I give it up. See
here, I am going to write a sonnet to this creature, whatever it is. Fair denizen--!'

'Of a glass bottle!' interrupted the professor somewhat rudely, and the divine laughed.

'No. Of deathless ether, doomed.'

'And that reminds me,' said the professor, turning hastily, 'I must examine it under the microscope
carefully, while the light lasts.'

'Oh father!' cried the child, 'don't touch it, it is alive!'

'Nonsense!' said the professor, 'it is as dead as a door-nail. Just reach me that lens.'

He raised the glass stopper unsuspiciously, then turned to adjust his instrument And even as
he turned his captive fled.

'There!' cried the boy.

Like a flash of sunshine, Queen Mab darted upwards and floated through the open window. They
saw her hover outside a moment, then she was gone--back into her deathless ether.

'I told you so!' exclaimed the poet, startled by this incident into a momentary conviction
of the truth of his own theory.

CHAPTER IV. -- THE POET AND THE PALÆONTO-THEOLOGIST

     'Puis nous fut dit que chose estrange ne leur sembloit estre
     deux contradictoires Vrayes en mode, en figure, et en
     temps.'  Pantagruel, v. xxii.

Moved by an uncontrollable impulse, they all three rushed out into the garden; and far beyond
them, in the sunlight, they did indeed catch one parting gleam of gauzy wings, as the fairy
vanished. When the professor led the way into the room again, and, rather crestfallen, looked
at the tall empty bottle and the stopper, which in his hurry he had thrown down upon the floor.

'She is gone!' sobbed the child. 'My beautiful Dala. I shall never see her again.'

He was right; the professor and the theologian, between them, had scared Queen Mab away pretty
successfully. She would certainly never revisit that part of the city if she could help it.
The divine looked uncomfortable. In spite of himself he had recognised something strange and
unusual in the appearance of this last capture of his friend's butterfly-net, and almost unconsciously
he began to ponder on the old theory that the Evil One might occasionally disguise himself
as an angel of light. The poet, meanwhile, was more voluble.

'Your soul is sordid!' he said indignantly to the professor. 'You have no eyes for the Immaterial,
the intangibly Ideal, that lies behind the shadowy and deceptive veil that we call Matter.'

'My soul,' said the professor with equal indignation, 'that is, if I have got one, is as good
as yours.'

'No, it isn't,' said the poet; 'I am all soul, or nearly all. You are nothing but a mass of
Higher Protoplasm.'

'No one need wish to be anything better. I should like to know,' cried the professor angrily,
'where we should all be without Protoplasm.'

'My friends,' said the theologian, still rather confused, 'this heat is both irreverent and
irrational. Protoplasm is invaluable, but is it not also transient? The flight of that butterfly
may well remind us--'

