Alice sat down on the grassy bank, and Lolly laid her head upon her friend's lap, while Maddie
crowded close to her to listen.

"I don't know that I can remember it very well," said Alice; "but I'll tell it as nearly as
I can like Miss Mason.  She called it 'The Little Exiled Princess,' and this is it."

CHAPTER III.

Once upon a time there was a little girl no bigger than Lolly here, sitting in the dirt by
the roadside, crying.

Her frock was all ragged and soiled, and the tears had run over the dust upon her face, making
it streaked, and disfiguring it sadly.

Altogether, she was a very miserable little object, when a lady, walking along the road, suddenly
came upon her, and stopped to see what was the matter.

As the lady gazed upon the strange, ragged little creature, there came tears into her eyes,
and she said softly, as if speaking to herself,--

"Who would think that this is the daughter of a great King?"

The child, seeing a beautiful lady before her, jumped from the ground, and, with shame, began
to shake herself from the dirt that clung to her garments; but the stranger, taking no notice
of her untidy condition, clasped the child's fingers in her white hand, and told her to lead
her to her home.

It was a brown cottage, very like mine, only that one was hung with cobwebs, and the dust was
an inch thick upon the floor, and the window was so begrimmed that scarcely any light came through.

"Ugh!" said the lady, as she stood upon the threshold and looked in.

"Bring me a broom!"  And she brushed away the hanging webs, and made the floor neat and clean,
and taught the child to wash the window, until the bright sun came in and played about the
floor and upon the walls; and then she made the little girl wash her face and hands, and put
on a better frock, that she found in the chest.

"Now, my little princess," said she, "come outside for a while, in the fresh air, and I will
talk to you."

"Why do you call me 'little princess'?" asked the child, as they sat down upon the cottage-step,
while the birds twittered about them and the sweet breath of summer touched their cheeks.

"Because you are the daughter of a great King," said the lady, gently stroking her soft, brown
hair, that she had found so tangled and shaggy, but had made so nice and smooth.

"My father was a poor man, and he lies in the graveyard," said the little girl, as she looked
wonderingly at her friend.

"Yes; but I mean your heavenly Father," said the lady--"he whom we call GOD.  Surely you have
heard of him, my dear child!"

The little girl said that she had heard of him; but, from what she could learn, the lady knew
that she looked upon him as one that is afar off; and she wished to teach her how very near
he is continually, even round about her bed and about her path, and spying out all her ways.

"Do you live here all alone, dear child?" asked she kindly.

Her words were so sweet and gentle that they sounded like the murmur of the brook near the
little child's home.

"All day long alone, while mother is away at her work," answered the child, with her eyes full
of sad tears.

"And what do you do with the weary hours?  Do they not seem very dull and dreary to you?" asked
the lady.

"Ah, yes," said the little one.  "I have nobody to play with or talk to; and I'm glad when
the night comes and I can creep into bed and shut my eyes and forget everything."

"What if you had some kind friend ever near, to smile on you and bless you,--somebody to whom
you could tell all your little sorrows as you are now doing to me?" said the lady.  "Would
that be pleasant?"

"Oh yes, indeed!" returned the child.  "Will you stay?" for she had felt it very sweet to be
sitting there with the kind lady's words falling like music upon her ear, and her heart was
lighter and happier than it had been in all her life.

"I cannot always be with you," said the lady.  "But there is One who 'will never leave you.'
How beautiful he has made everything about you!" And she looked upon the green earth, with
the peeping flowers, and upon the delicate shrubs that skirted the roadside, and the wild-roses
and creeping plants along the hedges, and then she looked up into the blue heavens, with such
an expression of love that the child gazed at her with rapture.

"Such a good God!" said the lady, still looking up with the bright light upon her face.  "And
such a wondrously beautiful world, where we may walk joyously, with his love in our hearts
as well as all about our path; and yet we sit in the dust weeping, and forget that he is our
Father, and that he is watching for us to turn towards him--poor, wandering, wayward children
that we are!"

Though the lady spoke as if to herself, the child knew that she was thinking of her; for she
had not quite put away the shame of her first appearance; and she touched her white hand timidly
with her brown finger, and said, really in earnest, "I won't sit in the dirt again."

"That's a dear child," said her friend.  "You must never again forget that, although you are
poor, and must live in this world for a while, you are in truth a little exiled princess, and
your glorious home is with the great King, your Father, in the skies; and it does not become
the daughter of so great a King to put herself on a level with the beasts; but you must lift
yourself up more and more towards heaven."

The little girl looked at her, and straightened her figure to its greatest possible height.

"Not to carry yourself proudly, as the daughter of an earthly king might do," continued the
lady, "but be above doing a mean or low thing, and try to be heavenly and pure, like your blessed
Lord and Father; and then he will lift you up to his beautiful, high throne."

The child's head drooped again, and she looked despondingly at her teacher, as if she did not
really know what to do.

"I'm going now," said the lady; "but I shall come once a week to see how you get on.  I shall
not expect the cobwebs to gather any more in the cottage, nor the dust to collect upon the
floor, nor to shut out the sun from the window, nor the little princess's face to be dirty
and ugly; because that would offend the pure and holy God, who made this world fresh and clean
and beautiful, and expects his children to keep it so.  Do you think you will remember 'Our
Father'?"

"'Who art in heaven,'" said the child, calling to mind the prayer taught her some time in her
life, but long since almost forgotten.

"Not in heaven only, dear child," said the lady.  "I want you to think of him as close beside
you always, wherever you go.  Can you read?"

"A little."  Only when we are doing something that we are ashamed of do we shun the face of
one who loves us; and if we try to flee from the eye of God we may be sure we are guilty of
some wickedness.  How much sweeter is it to do what we know will please him, and look freely
up into his face, as a good child delights to meet his earthly parent's smile!"

The lady rose to go, and the child looked wistfully at her and then at the little Bible.

"Ah yes; I will give you this.  It will tell you what to do."  And she put the book into the
child's hands.  "You will read a chapter every day till I come?"

The little girl gladly promised, but was sad at the parting; for never an hour passed so cheerily
as the hour with the kind teacher.

"You may be sure I'll come again, for He sends me," said the lady.  And she looked up once
more with the heavenly face, and then stooped till her soft lips touched the child's forehead;
and, while the pressure of the gentle kiss thrilled through the very soul of the little girl,
her friend was gone.

CHAPTER IV

"Did she come again?" asked Maddie, who had got upon her knees in front of Alice, with mouth
and eyes and ears wide open for the story.

"Oh yes; many and many a time," said Alice.  "And she taught the little girl to see her Father's
love in the trees, and the flowers, and all about, as she walked amid his beautiful creation;
and she learned to be a neat, tidy little girl, instead of the dirty, miserable creature that
sat crying in the dirt by the roadside when she first saw her friend.  The lady taught her
to look upon herself as greatly beloved by her Father, and after that she was not miserable
any more."

"Did you ever see the little princess?" asked Lolly, raising her head from Alice's lap and
looking earnestly at her.

"Yes, indeed.  Every day since the lady came to her," said Alice.  "She lives in the same cottage
now; but it has grown to be a beautiful place; for God's flowers are all about it, and God's
sun streams in at the window, and all over the mossy roof, like a golden flood,--and God himself
is always with her to keep her from harm and from being lonely or sad."  And as Alice said
this, the tears glistened in her blue eyes, as the dew-drops sparkle through the sunlight in
the violets.

"We'll go and see her now," continued she; "and I'll show you two other little exiled princesses."
And she took Lolly and Maddie down by the brook-side, and bade them look in her great mirror;
and there they saw themselves and Alice--all children of the great King.

"Ah, now I know!" said Maddie, clapping her hands.  "You are the little princess, Alice, and
Miss Mason is the good lady.  Is she so nice as all that?"

"Just as nice, dear Maddie," replied Alice; "and if you and Lolly will go with me to the Sunday-school,
she'll tell us a great many more beautiful stories, to help us on our way to our heavenly home.

"But come.  It is nearly time for us to go now.  Mother will be looking for me.  Good-bye."

And the little girl with the sunny heart bounded into the cottage with a smile and a kiss for
her mother.

CHAPTER V.

When Alice left the children, they went sauntering along the road towards home.  Very slowly
they walked, and not joyously and hopefully, as little children do who think of their father's
house as the brightest and dearest spot in the whole world.

It was a long distance from the brown cottage of their friend; but the freshness of the evening
made it delightful to be out, and they had been resting so many hours that they were not weary.
Besides, the twinkling stars came out in the sky, and there was shining above them the calm,
bright moon; and altogether it was so serene and lovely, that they almost wished they could
be always walking in some pleasant path that should have no unpleasant thing at the end--such
as they felt their home to be. Presently they came to a bend in the road, and a few steps from
the corner was a low-roofed house, a ruinous-looking place, with rags stuffed in the broken
window-panes.  There were green fields around it, and tall trees gracefully waving near it;
but the old house spoiled the landscape by its slovenly, shabby appearance.

A dim light was burning in the room nearest the children; and as they approached, they could
see their father and mother sitting at a table, eating their coarse supper of bread and cold
salt pork.

Lolly thought what a pleasant table Alice had by the brook-side, and the scent of the violets
seemed even now to reach her, and the music of the waters was in her ears, and the bright,
happy face of her little playmate came freshly before her, making the dingy room where her
parents sat, with the gloom of the dim light and the tattered dusty furniture, still more uninviting
and cheerless.

Lolly lingered outside the door, while Maddie entered.  She sat down upon the step, and called
to mind all that Alice had said to them that day.

She was younger than Maddie by a year or two, but her soul was older--that is, it was more
thoughtful and earnest; and instead of dwelling always on the things of earth, she had a wistful
longing for something higher and better, which Alice's words had begun to satisfy.

The cool breeze played upon her cheek, and the sound of the air, as it rustled the leaves,
and the breath of the flower-scented meadows fell soothingly upon her senses; and as she looked
up into the starry sky, with its myriads of gleaming lights, and recalled the story, she felt
within herself that indeed she was a little princess as well as Alice, and that far above all
the glory of the heavens her Father was awaiting her return to the heavenly palace.

"Maddie and I mustn't forget these things," said she to herself; "but must try to get ready
for our better home."

So much was Lolly thinking of the things she had heard in the story, that she might have sat
there in the dew all night, but that her mother called her to eat her supper and go to bed.

Maddie was already fast asleep upon a trundle-bed, that was pushed under the great bed by day,
and drawn out at night; for there were only the two rooms in the house, and they had to make
the most of all the space.

Lolly had never felt the house so small and close as on this night; for her soul was swelling
with such large free thoughts, that the four narrow walls of the bedroom seemed to press in
upon her and almost to stop her breath.

She could not go to bed until she had opened the window and looked up once more into the bright
sky; and as she did so, she said very earnestly, "O my Father!"

She did not know any prayers.  She had never been taught to call upon God.  Most that she had
ever heard of the other life was through Alice's story that day; and her heart was so glad
of the knowledge, that it already began to go out towards her heavenly home and her gracious
Father.

As she spoke these words, there came such a happy feeling to her spirit--a feeling that she
was not alone, but that she was watched over and protected; and with a sense of security and
safety, such as she had never before known, she lay down beside her sister, and was soon sweetly
slumbering.

CHAPTER VI.

Lolly was awakened in the morning by the fretful voice of her mother, as she went scolding
about the house, trying to pick up something for breakfast; and she heard her father answering
her in no pleasant mood, and kicking about the floor whatever came in his way.

It was a sad awakening for poor Lolly, and, for the minute, it put wholly out of her mind the
pleasure of the previous day, and the lesson learned in the green and sunny place by the brook-side;
and she was sorely tempted to cover her head with the bed-clothes, and sleep again, until her
parents were off to their work, and then give herself up to idleness and play, as she had always
done.  But the bright happy face of Alice came before her to help her, and she was out of bed
in a minute.

"Maddie, Maddie!" said she, leaning over her sister and giving her the least bit of a shake
in order to arouse her; "come, get up.  The sun is shining on the wall, and it is a beautiful
day.  I want you to go with me for Alice."

"Get away!" returned Maddie in a huff.  "I haven't slept half enough!" And, settling herself
again, she dropped off into a heavier slumber; while Lolly, seeing that it would do no good
to disturb her, dressed herself and went into the other room.

Her mother was baking a cake, and her father sat near, idle.  Both looked surprised to see
Lolly up so early.

There was a woollen-factory in the village, perhaps half a mile away, and they were off generally
long before the children were up; and Maddie and Lolly usually ate such pickings as they left
upon the table, and spent their days as they pleased, with little thought or care from their
parents.

