 Valentine, do you think they could possibly act thus? Valentine! do you think these
two men, who have so shamefully insulted my memory, so grossly betrayed me and proved themselves
disgracefully faithless, would dare lay any claims to my love? Alas! in spite of the absurdity
of such a supposition, Heaven knows they are fully capable of acting thus; men in love have
such relaxed morality, such elastic consciences!

Under pretext of imaginary ungovernable passions, they indulge, without compunction, in falsehood,
duplicity and the desecration of every virtue!... and yet think a pure love can condone and
survive such unpardonable wrongs. They lightly weigh the tribute due to the refinement of a
woman's heart. Their devotion is characterized by a singular variety. The loyal love of noble
women is sacrificed to please the whims of those unblushing creatures who pursue such men with
indelicate attentions and enslave them by flattering their inordinate vanity, and they, to
preserve their self-love unhurt, pierce and mortally wound the generous hearts that live upon
their affection and revere their very names--these they strike without pity and without remorse.
And then when the tender love falls from these broken hearts, like water from a shattered vase,
never to be recovered, they are astonished, uneasy, ... they have broken the heart filled with
love, and now, with stupid surprise and pretended innocence, they ask what has become of the
love!... they cowardly murdered it, and are indignant that it dared to die beneath their cruel
blows. But why dwell upon Edgar and his anger and hatred, of Roger and his fury? Fate needs
not these terrible instruments to destroy our happiness; the slightest accident, the most trifling
imprudence can serve its cruelty; every thing will assist it in taking vengeance upon a man
revelling in too much love, too much love. The cold north wind blowing at night upon his heated
brow may strike him with the chill of death; the bridge may perfidiously break beneath his
feet and cast him in the surging torrent below; a lofty rock, shivered by the winter frost,
may fall upon him and crush him to atoms; his favorite horse may be frightened at a shadow
and hurl him over the threatening precipice ... that child playing in front of my window might
carelessly strike him on the temple with one of those pebbles and kill him....

Oh! Valentine, I am not laboring under an illusion. I see danger; the world revolts against
pure, unalloyed happiness; society pursues it as an offence; nature curses it because of its
perfection; to her every perfect thing seems a monstrosity not to be borne--directly she suspects
its existence, she gives the alarm and the elements unite in conspiring against this happiness;
the thunder-bolt is warned and holds itself in readiness to burst over the radiant brow. With
human beings all the evil passions are simultaneously aroused: secret notice, unknown voices
warn the envious people of every nation that there is somewhere a great joy to be disturbed;
that in some corner of the earth two beings exist who sought and found each other--two hearts
that love with ideal equality and intoxicating harmony.... Chance itself, that careless railer,
is overbearing and jealous towards them; it is angry with these two beings who voluntarily
sought and conscientiously chose each other without waiting for it to confer happiness upon
them--it discovers their names, that never knows the name of any one, and pursues them with
its animosity; it recovers its sight in order to recognise and strike them. I feel that we
are too happy! Death stares us in the face! My soul shudders with fear! On earth we are not
allowed to taste of supreme delight--pure, unalloyed happiness--to feel at once that ecstasy
of soul and delirium of passion--that pride of love and loftiness of a pure conscience ...
burning joys are only permitted to culpable love. When two unfortunate beings, bound by detested
ties, meet and mutually recognise the ideals of their dreams, they are allowed to love each
other because they have met too late, because this immense joy, this finding one's ideal, is
poisoned by remorse and shame. Their criminal happiness can remain undisturbed because it is
criminal; it has the conditions of life, frailty and misery; it bears the impress of sin, therefore
it belongs to a common humanity.... But find ideal bliss in a legitimate union, find it in
time to welcome it without shame and cherish it without remorse; be happy as a lover and honored
as a wife; to experience the wild ardor of love and preserve the charming freshness of purity--to
delight in obeying the equitable law of the most harmonious love by being alternately a slave
and a queen; to call upon him who calls upon you; seek him who seeks you; love him who loves
you--in a word, to be the idol of your idol!... it is too much, it surpasses human happiness,
it is stealing fire from heaven--it is, I tell you, incurring the punishment of death!

In my enthusiasm I already stand upon the boundary of the true world--- I have a glimpse of
paradise; earth recedes from my gaze; I understand and expect death, because life has bid me
a last farewell--the exaltation that I feel belongs to the future of the blessed; it is a triumphant
dying--that final and supremely happy thought that tells me my soul is about to take its flight.

Oh! merciful God! my brain is on fire! and why do I write you these incoherent thoughts! Valentine,
you see all excessive emotions are alike; the delirium of joy resembles the frenzy of despair.
Having attained the summit of happiness, what do we see at our feet?... a yawning abyss!...
we have lost the steep path by which we so painfully reached the top; once there, we have no
means of gradually descending the declivity ... from so great a height we cannot walk, we fall!

There is but one way of preserving happiness--abjure it--never welcome it; sometimes it delights
in visiting ungrateful people. Vainly do I seek to reassure myself by expiation, by sacrifices;
during these eight days I have been lavishly giving gold in the neighborhood, I have endowed
all the children, fed the poor, enriched the hospitals; I would willingly ruin myself by generous
charity, by magnificent donations--I would cheerfully give my entire fortune to obtain rest
and peace for my troubled mind.

Every morning I enter the empty church and fervently pray that God will permit me by some great
sacrifice to insure my happiness. I implore him to inflict upon me hard trials, great humiliations,
intense pain, sufferings beyond any strength, but to have mercy upon my poor heart and spare
me Raymond ... to leave me a little longer Raymond, ...

Raymond and his love!

But these tears and prayers will be vain--Raymond himself, without understanding his presentiments,
instinctively feels that his end is approaching. His purity of soul, his magnanimity, the unexampled
disinterestedness of his conduct, are indications--these sublime virtues are symptoms of death--this
generosity, this disinterestedness are tacit adieux. Raymond possesses none of the weaknesses
of men destined for a long life; he has indulged in none of the wicked passions of the age--he
has kept himself apart, observing but not sharing the actions of men. He regards life as if
he were a pilgrim, and takes no part in any of its turmoils--he has not bargained for any of
its disenchantments; his great pride, his life-long, unbending loyalty have concealed a mournful
secret; he has stood aloof because he was convinced of his untimely end. He feels self-reliant
because he will only have a short time to struggle; he is joyous and proud, because he looks
upon the victory as already won ... I weep as I admire him.

Alas! am I to regard with sorrow and fear these noble qualities--these seductive traits that
won my love? Is it because he deserves to be loved more than any being on earth has ever been
loved, that I tremble for him! Valentine, does not such an excess of happiness excite your pity?

Ever since early this morning, I have been suffering torment--Raymond left me for a few hours--he
went to Guéret; one of his cousins returning from the waters of Néris was to pass through there
at ten o'clock, and requested him to meet her at the hotel. Nothing is more natural, and I
have no reason to be alarmed--yet this short absence disturbs me as much as if it were to last
years--it makes me sad--it is the first time we have been separated so long a time during these
eight blissful days.

Ah! how I love him, and how heavy hangs time on my hands during his absence!

One thought comforts me in my present state of exaltation; I am unequal to any great misfortune....
A fatal piece of news, a painful sight, a false alarm ... a certain dreaded name mingled with
one that I adore--ah! a false report, although immediately contradicted, would kill me on the
spot--I could not live the two minutes it would require to hear the denial--the truth happily
demonstrated. This thought consoles me--if my happiness is to end, I shall die with it.

Valentine, it is two o'clock! Oh! why does Raymond not return? My heart sinks--my hand trembles
so that I can scarcely hold the pen--my eyes grow dim.... What can detain him? He left at eight,
and should have returned long ago. I know well that the relative he went to see might have
been delayed on the road--she may have mistaken the time, women are so ignorant about travelling--they
never understand the timetables.

All this tells me I am wrong to be uneasy--and yet ... I shudder at every sound.... his horse
is so fiery.... I am astonished that Raymond did not let me read his relative's letter; he
said he had left it on his table ... but I looked on the table and it was not there. I wished
to read the letter so as to find out the exact time he was to be at Guéret, and then I could
tell when to expect him home.

But this relative is the mother of the girl he was to have married.... perhaps she still loves
him.... is she with her mother?... Ah! what an absurd idea! I am so uneasy that I divert my
mind by being jealous--to avoid thinking of possible dangers, I conjure up impossible ones....
Oh! my God! it is not his love I doubt ... his love equals mine--it is the intensity of his
love that frightens me--it is in this love so pure, so perfect, so divine--in this complete
happiness that the danger lies. Is it not sinful to idolize one of God's creatures, when this
adoration is due to God alone--to devote one's whole existence to a human being, for his sake
to forget everything else? This is the sin before Heaven ...

Oh! if I could only see him, and once more hear his voice! That blessed voice I love so much!
How miserable I am!... What agony I suffer!... I stifle ... my brain whirls--my mind is so
confused that I cannot think ... this torture is worse than death ... And then if he should
suddenly appear before me, what joy!... Oh! I don't wish him to enter the room at once--I would
like one minute to prepare myself for the happiness of seeing him ... one single moment....
If he were to abruptly enter, I would become frantic with joy as I embraced him!

My dear Valentine, what a torment is love!... It is utterly impossible for me to support another
hour of this agitation. I am sure I have a fever--I shiver with cold--I burn--my brain is on
fire....

As I write this to you, seated at the window, I eagerly watch the long avenue by which he must
return.... I write a word ... a whole line so as to give him time to approach, hoping I will
see him coming when I raise my eyes--.... After writing each line I look again.... nothing
appears in the distance; I see neither his horse nor the cloud of dust that would announce
his approach. The clock strikes! three o'clock!... Valentine! it is fearful ... hope deserts
me ... all is lost ... I feel myself dying ... Instinct tells me that some dreadful tragedy,
ruinous to me, is now enacting on this earth.... Ah! my heart breaks ... I suffer torture....
Raymond! Raymond! Valentine! my mother! help!... help!... I see a horse rushing up the avenue
... but it is not Raymond's ... ah! it is his ... but ... I don't see Raymond ... the saddle
is empty ... God!

This unfinished letter of the Comtesse de Villiers to Madame de Braimes bore neither address
nor signature.

XL.

ROGER DE MONBERT to MONSIEUR EDGAR DE MEILHAN, Hotel de Bellevue, Bruxelles (Belgique).

You are now at Brussels, my dear Edgar, at least for my own peace of mind I hope so. Although
I fear not for you the rigors of the law, still I am anxious to know that you are on a safe
and hospitable shore.

Criminal trials, even when they have a favorable issue, are injurious. In your case it is necessary
to keep concealed, await the result of public opinion, and let future events regulate your
conduct. Besides, as there is no law about duelling, you must distrust the courts of justice.
The day will come when some jury, tired of so many acquittals, will agree upon a conviction.
Your case may be decided by this jury--so it is only prudent for you to disappear, and abide
the issue.

Things have entirely changed during my ten years' absence; all this is new to me. Immediately
after the duel I obeyed your instructions, and went to see your lawyer, Delestong. With the
exception of a few omissions, I was obliged to relate everything that happened. I must tell
you exactly what I said and what I left unsaid, so that if we are summoned before the court
our testimony shall not conflict.

It was unnecessary to relate what passed between us before the duel, so I merely said we had
drawn lots as to who should be the avenger, and who the second; nor did I deem it proper to
explain the serious causes of the duel, as it would have resulted in a long story, and the
bringing in of women's names at every turn, an unpardonable thing in a man. I simply said the
cause was serious, and of a nature to fully justify a deadly meeting; that we, Monsieur de
Meilhan and myself, left Guéret at six o'clock in the morning; when three miles from the town,
we left the high-road of Limoges and entered that part of the woods called the Little Cascade,
where we dismounted and awaited the arrival of M. de Villiers, who, in a few minutes, rode
up to us, accompanied by two army-officers as seconds. We exchanged bows at a distance of ten
feet, but nothing was said until the elder of the officers advanced towards me, shook my hand,
and drawing me aside, began: "We military men dare not refuse to act on this occasion as seconds
when summoned by a brave man, but we always come with the hope of effecting a reconciliation.
These young men are hot-headed. There is some pretty woman at the root of the difficulty, and
they are acting the rôles of foolish rivals. The day has passed for men to fight about such
silly things; it is no longer the fashion. Now, cannot we arrange this matter satisfactorily,
without injuring the pride of these gentlemen?"

"Monsieur," I replied, "it is with profound regret that I decline making any amicable settlement
of this affair. Under any other circumstances I would share your peaceable sentiments; as it
is, we have come here with a fixed determination. If you knew--"

"Do tell me the provocation--I am very anxious to learn it," said the officer, interrupting
me, eagerly.

"You ask what is impossible," I replied; "nothing could alter our determination. We fully made
up our minds before coming here."

"That being the case, monsieur," said he, "my friend and I will withdraw; we decline to countenance
a murder."

"If you retire, captain," I responded, pressing his hand, "I will also leave, and not be answerable
for the result--and what will be the consequence? I can assure you, upon my honor, that these
gentlemen will fight without seconds."

The officer bowed and waved his hand, in sign of forced acquiescence. After a short pause,
he continued: "We have entered upon a very distasteful affair, and the sooner it is ended the
better. Have they decided upon the weapons?"

"They have decided, monsieur, to draw lots for the choice of arms," I replied.

"Then," he cried, "there has been no insult given or received; they are both in the right and
both in the wrong."

"Exactly so, captain."

"I suppose we will have to consent to it. Let us draw for the weapons, since it is agreed upon."

The lot fell on the sword.

"With this weapon," I said, "all the disadvantages are on the side of M. de Meilhan; the skilful
fencing of his adversary is celebrated among amateurs. He is one of Pons's best scholars."

"Have you brought a surgeon?" said the captain.

"Yes, monsieur, we left Dr. Gillard in a house near by."

As you see, dear Edgar, I shall lay great stress upon the disadvantages you labored under in
using the sword; and, when necessary, I shall express in eloquent terms the agony I felt when
I saw your hand, more skilful in handling the pen than the sword, hesitatingly grasp the hilt.

I finished my deposition in these words: "When the distance had been settled, by casting lots,
we handed our principals two swords exactly alike; one of the adverse seconds and myself stood
three steps off with our canes raised in order to separate them at all risk, if necessary,
in obedience to the characteristically French injunction of the duelling code as laid down
by M. Chateunvillard.

"At the given signal the swords were bravely crossed; Edgar, with the boldness of heroic inexperience,
bravely attacked his adversary. Raymond, compelled to defend himself, was astonished. At this
terrible moment, when thought paralyzes action, he was absorbed in thought. The contest was
brief. Edgar's sword, only half parried, pierced his rival's heart. The surgeon came to gaze
upon a lifeless corpse.

"Edgar mounted his horse, rode off and I have not seen him since. Those who remained rendered
the last offices to the dead."

I am obliged to write you these facts, my dear Edgar, not for information, but to recall them
to you in their exact order; and especially, I repeat, in order to avoid contradiction on the
witness-stand. Now I must write you of what you are ignorant.

I had a duty to fulfil, much more terrible than yours, and I was obliged to recall our execrable
oath in order to renew courage and strength to keep my promise.

Before we had cast lots for the leading part in this duel, we swore to go ourselves to the
house of this woman and announce to her the issue of the combat, if it proved favorable to
us. In the delirium of angry excitement, filling our burning hearts at the moment, this oath
appeared to be the most reasonable thing in the world. Our blood boiled with such violent hatred
against him and her that it seemed just for vengeance, with refined cruelty, to step over a
corpse and pursue its work ere its second victim had donned her widow's robes.

Edgar! Edgar! when I saw that blood flowing, when I saw life and youth converted into an inanimate
mass of clay, when you left me alone on this inanimate theatre of death, my feelings underwent
a sudden revolution; this moment seemed to age me a half a century, and without lessening my
hatred, only left me a confused perception of it, with a vague memory full of disenchantment
and sadness.

The crime was great, it is true, but what a terrible expiation! What hellish torture heaped
upon him at once! To lose all at the point of the sword, all!--youth, fortune, love, wife,
celestial joys, beautiful nature and the light of the sun!

However, dear Edgar, I remembered our solemn promise; and as you were not here to release me,
I was obliged to fulfil it to the letter. And then again, shall I say it, this humane consideration
did not extend to the offending woman; my heart was still filled with a sentiment that has
no name in the language of the passions!--A mixture of hatred, love, jealousy, scorn and despair.

She was not dead! A man had been sacrificed as a victim upon the altar of this goddess: that
was all.

Do not women require amusement of this sort?

She would live; to-day, she would weep; to-morrow, seek the common path of consolation. One
victim is not enough to gratify her cruel vanity! She must be quickly consoled, that she might
be ready to receive fresh sacrifices in her temple.

My heart filled with angry passions awakened by these thoughts, I spurred my horse, and hastened
in the direction of the house that had been described to me the day before. I soon recognised
the picturesque spot, where this accursed house lay concealed in the midst of beautiful trees
and smiling waters.

An electric shock must have communicated to you, dear Edgar, the oppression of heart I felt
at the sight of the landscape. There was the history of love in every tree and flower. There
was an ineffable record in the hedges of the valleys; loving caresses in the murmur of the
water-lilies; ecstasies of lovers in the quivering of the leaves; divine intoxication in the
exhalations of the wild flowers, and in the lights, shadows and gentle breezes under the mysterious
alcoves of the trees. Oh! how happy they must have been in this paradise! The whole air was
filled with the life of their love and happiness! There must have been present a supernatural
and invisible being, who was a jealous witness of this wedded bliss, and who made use of your
sword to destroy it! So much happiness was an offence before heaven. We have been the blind
instrument of a wrathful spirit. But what mattered death after such a day of perfect bliss!
After having tasted the most exquisite tenderness in the world! When looking at the proud young
husband sitting in this flowery bower, with the soft starlight revealing his happy face as
he tenderly and hopefully gazed on his lovely bride, who would not have exclaimed with the poet,

  "My life for a moment of bliss like this."

Who would not have welcomed your sword-thrust as the price of a moment's duration of such divine
joy?

The survivors are the unfortunate ones, because they saw but could not taste this happiness.

Infernal Tantalus of the delights of Paradise, because their dream has become the reality of
another, and lawful vengeance leaves them a satisfaction poisoned by remorse!

Come with me, dear Edgar, in my sad pilgrimage to this accursed house, and with me behold the
closing scene. I left the shade of the woods and approached the lawn, that, like an immense
terrace of grass and flowers, spread before the house. I saw many strange things, and with
that comprehensive, sweeping glance of feverish excitement; two horses covered with foam, their
saddles empty and bridles dragging, trampled down the flower-borders. One horse was Raymond's,
returned riderless! Doubtless brought home by the servant who had accompanied him.

Not a face was visible, in the sun, the shade, the orchard, on the steps, or at the windows.
I observed in the garden two rakes lying on some beautiful lilies; they had not been carefully
laid down, but dropped in the midst of the flowers, on hearing some cry of distress from the house.

One window was open; the rich curtains showed it to be the room of a woman; the carelessly
pushed open blinds proved that an anxious watcher had passed long hours of feverish expectation
at the window. A desolate silence reigned around the house; this silence was fearful, and at
an hour of the day when all is life and animation, in harmony with the singing birds and rippling
waters.

I ascended the steps, mechanically noticing the beautiful flowers clustering about the railing;
flowers take a part in every catastrophe of life. On the threshold, I forgot myself to think
of you, to live with your spirit, to walk with your feet, for my own resolution would have
failed me at this fatal moment.

In the vestibule I looked through a half-open folding-door, and, in the funereal darkness,
saw some peasantry kneeling and praying. No head was raised to look at me. I slowly entered
the room with my eyes downcast, and lids swollen with tears I forcibly restrained. In a recess,
lying on a sofa, was something white and motionless, the sight of which froze my blood....
It was--I cannot write her name, Edgar--it was she. My troubled gaze could not discover whether
dead or living. She seemed to be sleeping, with her hair lying carelessly about the pillow,
in the disorder of a morning repose.

Near by was a young man-servant, his vest spotted with blood; with face buried in his hands
he was weeping bitterly.

Near her head a window was raised to admit the fresh air. This window opened on an inner courtyard,
very gloomy on account of the masses of leaves that seemed to drop from the walls and fill
it with sombreness.

Two men dressed in black, with faces more melancholy-looking than their garments, were in this
courtyard, talking in low tones; through the window I could only see their heads and shoulders.
I merely glanced at them; my eyes, my sorrow, my hatred, my love were all concentrated upon
this woman. Absorbed by a heart-rending gaze, an instinct rather than idea rooted me to the spot.

I waited for her to recover her senses, to open her eyes, not to add to her anguish by a word
or look of mine, but to let her see me standing there, a living, silent accusation. Some farmer-boys
entered with lighted candles, a cross and basin of holy-water. In the disorder of my mind,
I understood nothing, but slowly walked out on the terrace, with the vague idea of breathing
a little fresh air and returning.

The serenity of the sky, the brightness of the sun, the green trees, the fragrant flowers,
the songs of the birds, offered an ironical contrast to the scene of mourning. Often does nature
refuse to countenance human sorrows, because they are ungrateful to her goodness. She creates
the wonders of heaven to make us happy; we evoke the secrets of hell to torture our souls and
bodies. Nature is right to scorn our self-inflicted sorrows.

You see, my dear Edgar, that I make you share all of my torments, all of my gloomy reflections.
I make you live over this hour, minute by minute, agony on agony, as I suffered it myself.

I stood aside under a tree, waiting I know not for what; one of the men in black, I had seen
from the window, came down the steps of the terrace and advanced towards me. I made some confused
remark; the situation supplied it with intelligence.

"You are a relation, a friend, an acquaintance?" he said, inquiringly.

"Yes, monsieur."

"It is a terrible misfortune," he added, clasping his hands and bowing his head; "or rather
say two terrible misfortunes in one day; the poor woman is also dead." ...

Like one in a dream I heard the latter remark, and I now transcribe it to you as my impression
of something that occurred long, long ago, although I know it took place yesterday.

"Yes, dead," he went on to say; "we were called in too late. Bleeding would have relieved the
brain. It was a violent congestion; we have similar cases during our practice. An immense loss
to the community. A woman who was young, beautiful as an angel, and charity itself.... Dead!"

He looked up, raised his hand to heaven, and walked rapidly away.

I am haunted by a memory that nothing can dispel. This spectre doubtless follows you too, dear
Edgar. It is a mute, eloquent image fashioned in the empty air, like the outline of a grave;
a phantom that the sun drives not away, pursuing me by day and by night. It is Raymond's face
as he stood opposite to you on the field of death, his brow, his eye, his lips, his whole bearing
breathing the noblest sentiments that were ever buried in an undeserved grave. This heroic
young man met us with the fatal conviction that his last hour had come; he felt towards us
neither hatred nor contempt; he obeyed the inexorable exigencies of the hour, without accusation,
without complaint.

The silence of Raymond clothed in sublime delicacy his friendship for us, and his love for
her. His manner expressed neither the resignation that calls for pity nor the pride that provokes
passion; his countenance shone with modest serenity, the offspring of a grand resolve.

In a few days of conjugal bliss he had wandered through the flowery paths of human felicity;
he had exhausted the measure of divine beatitude allotted to man on earth, and he stood nerved
for the inevitable and bloody expiation of his happiness.

All this was written on Raymond's face.

Edgar! Edgar! we were too relentless. Why should honor, the noblest of our virtues, be the
parent of so much remorse?

Adieu.

ROGER DE MONBERT.

XLI.

Do not be uneasy, dear Roger; I have reached the frontier without being pursued; the news of
the fatal duel had not yet spread abroad. I thank you, all the same, for the letter which you
have written me, and in which you trace the line of conduct I should pursue in case of arrest.
The moment a magistrate interferes, the clearest and least complicated affair assumes an appearance
of guilt. However, it would have been all the same to me if I had been arrested and condemned.
I fled more on your account than on my own. No human interest can ever again influence me;
Raymond's death has ended my life!

What an inexplicable enigma is the human heart! When I saw Raymond facing me upon the ground,
an uncontrollable rage took possession of me. The heavenly resignation of his face seemed infamous
and finished hypocrisy. I said to myself: "He apes the angel, the wretch!" and I regretted
that custom interposed a sword between him and my hatred. It seemed so coldly ceremonious,
I would have liked to tear his bosom open with my nails and gnaw his heart out with my teeth.
I knew that I would kill him; I already saw the red lips of his wound outlined upon his breast
by the pale finger of death. When my steel crossed his, I attempted neither thrusts nor parries.
I had forgotten the little fencing I knew. I fought at random, almost with my eyes shut; but
had my adversary been St. George or Grisier, the result would have been the same.

When Raymond fell I experienced a profound astonishment; something within me broke which no
hand will ever be able to restore! A gulf opened before me which can never be filled! I stood
there, gloomily gazing upon the purple stream that flowed from the narrow wound, fascinated
in spite of myself by this spectacle of immobility succeeding action, death succeeding life,
without shade or transition; this young man, who a moment before was radiant with life and
hope, now lay motionless before me, as impossible to resuscitate as Cheops under his pyramid.
I was rooted to the spot, unconsciously repeating to myself Lady Macbeth's piteous cry: "Who
would have thought the man to have had so much blood in him?"

They led me away; I allowed them to put me into the carriage like a thing without strength
or motion. The excitement of anger was succeeded by an icy calmness; I had neither memory,
thought nor plans; I was annihilated; I would have liked to stop, throw myself on the ground
and lie there for ever. I felt no remorse, I had not even the consciousness of my crime; the
thought that I was a murderer had not yet had time to fix itself in my mind; I felt no connection
whatever with the deed that I had done, and asked myself if it was I, Edgar de Meilhan, who
had killed Raymond! It seemed as if I had been only a looker-on.

As to Irene, the innocent cause of this horrible catastrophe, I scarcely thought of her; she
only appeared to me a faint phantom seen in another existence! My love, my longings, my jealousy
had all vanished. One drop of Raymond's warm blood had stilled my mad vehemence. She is dead,
poor darling, it is the only happiness that I could wish her; her death lessens my despair.
If she lived, no torture, no penance could be fierce enough to expiate my crime! No hermit
of the desert would lash his quivering flesh more pitilessly than I!

Rest in peace, dear Louise, for you will always be Louise to me, even in heaven, which I shall
never reach, for I have killed my brother and belong to the race of Cain; I do not pity thee,
for thou hast clasped in thy arms the dream of thy heart. Thou hast been happy; and happiness
is a crime punishable on earth by death, as is genius and divinity.

You will forgive me! for I caught a glimpse of the angel through the woman. I also sought my
ideal and found it. O beautiful loving being! why did your faith fail you, why did you doubt
the love you inspired! Alas! I thought you a faithless coquette; you were conscientious; your
heart was a treasure that you could not reclaim, and you wished to bestow it worthily! Now
I know all; we always know all when it is too late, when the seal of the irreparable is fixed
upon events! You came to Havre, poor beauty, to find me, and fled believing yourself deceived;
you could not read my despair through my fictitious joy; you took my mask for my real countenance,
the intoxication of my body for the oblivion of my soul! In the midst of my orgie, at the very
moment when my foot pressed on the Ethiop's body, your azure eyes illumined my dream, your
blonde tresses rippled before me like golden waters of Paradise; thoughts of you filled my
mind like a vase with divine essence! never have I loved you better; I loved you better than
the condemned man, standing on the last step of the scaffold, loves life, than Satan loves
heaven from the depths of hell! My heart, if opened, would have exhibited your name written
in all its fibres, like the grain of wood which runs through the whole tree. Every particle
of my being belonged to you; thoughts of you pervaded me, in every sense, as light passes through
the air. Your life was substituted for mine; I no longer possessed either free will or wish.

For a moment you paused upon the brink of the abyss, and started back affrighted; for no woman
can gaze, unflinchingly, into the depths of man's heart; precipices always have frightened
you--dear angel, as if you had not wings! If you had paused an instant longer, you would have
seen far, far in the gloom in a firmament of bright stars, your adored image.

Vain regrets! useless lamentation! The damp and dark earth covers her delicate form! Her beautiful
eyes, her pure brow, her fascinating smile we shall never see again--never--never--if we live
thousands of years. Every hour that passes but widens the distance between us. Her beauty will
fade in the tomb, her name be lost in oblivion! For soon we shall have disappeared, pale forms
bending over a marble tomb!

It is very sad, sinister and terrible, but yet it is best so. See her in the arms of another:
Roger! what have we done to God to be damned alive! I can pity Raymond, since death separates
him from Louise. May he forgive me! He will, for he was a grand, a noble, a perfect friend.
We both failed to appreciate him, as a matter of course; folly and baseness are alone comprehended
here below!

We ran a desperate race for happiness! One alone attained it--dead!

EDGAR DE MEILHAN.

THE END.