It must be owned that five years form an awful lapse in human life:--a lapse whose hours and
minutes leave no where a trace more sharp and injurious than on the minds and countenances
of individuals involved in the buzzing, stinging gnatswarms of fashionable life. Elsewhere,
existence marches with a more dignified step, and the scenes pictured among the records of
our memory assume a grander aspect; they lie in masses,--their shadows are broader,--their
lights more brilliantly thrown out. But reminiscences of a life of ton are as vexatious as
they are frivolous. The season of 1829 differs from that of 1830, only inasmuch as its quadrilles
are varied with galoppes as well as waltzes, and danced at Lady A.'s and Lady B.'s,--instead
of the Duchess of D.'s, and Countess E.'s. The Duchess is dead,--the Countess ruined;--but
no matter!--there are still plenty of balls to be had. "Another and another still succeeds!"
Since young ladies will grow up to be presented, lady-mothers and aunts must continue to project
breakfasts, water parties, and galas, whereby to throw them in the way of flirtation, courtship,
and marriage. Mischief, in her most smiling mask, sits like the beautiful witch in Thalaba
at an everlasting spinning-wheel, weaving a mingled yarn of sin and sorrow for the daughters
of Fashion. Although the cauldron of Hecate and her priestesses has vanished from the heath
at Forres, it bubbles in nightly incantations among the elm-trees of Grosvenor Square; and
Hopper and Hellway, Puckle and Straddling, now croak forth their chorus of rejoicing where
golden lamps swing blazing over the écarté tables, and the soft strains of the Mazurka enervate
the atmosphere of the gorgeous temples of May Fair. Never yet was there a woman really improved
in attraction by mingling with the motley throng of the beau monde. She may learn to dress
better, to step more gracefully; her head may assume a more elegant turn, her conversation
become more polished, her air more distinguished;--but in point of attraction she acquires
nothing. Her simplicity of mind departs;--her generous, confiding impulses of character are
lost;--she is no longer inclined to interpret favourably of men and things,--she listens without
believing,--sees without admiring; has suffered persecution without learning mercy;--and been
taught to mistrust the candour of others by the forfeiture of her own. The freshness of her
disposition has vanished with the freshness of her complexion; hard lines are perceptible in
her very soul, and crowsfeet contract her very fancy. No longer pure and fair as the statue
of alabaster, her beauty, like that of some painted waxen effigy, is tawdry and meretricious.
It is not alone the rouge upon the cheek and the false tresses adorning the forehead, which
repel the ardour of admiration; it is the artificiality of mind with which such efforts are
connected that breaks the spell of beauty.

From the Fair of May Fair.

       *       *       *       *       *

BAMBOROUGH CASTLE

Is situate on the romantic coast of Northumberland, "over against" an obscure town of the same
name. It stands upon a basalt rock, of a triangular shape, high, rugged, and abrupt on the
land side; flanked by the German Ocean, and strong natural rampires of sand, matted together
with sea rushes on the east; and only accessible to an enemy on the south-east, which is guarded
by a deep, dry ditch, and a series of towers in the wall, on each side of the gateway. Nature
has mantled the rock with lichens of various rich tints: its beetling brow is 150 feet above
the level of the sea, upon a stratum of mouldering rock, apparently scorched with violent heat,
and having beneath it a close flinty sandstone. Its crown is girt with walls and towers, which
on the land side have been nearly all repaired. The outer gateway stands between two fine old
towers, with time-worn heads; twelve paces within it is a second gate, which is machicolated,
and has a portcullis; and, within this, on the left hand, on a lofty point of rock, is a very
ancient round tower of great strength; commanding a pass subject to every annoyance from the
besieged. This fort is believed to be of Saxon origin. The keep stands on the area of the rock,
having an open space around it. It is square, and of that kind of building which prevailed
from the Conquest till about the time of our second Henry. It had no chimney; but fires had
been made in the middle of a large room, which was lighted by a window near its top, three
feet square. All the other rooms were lighted by slit or loop holes, six inches broad. The
walls are of small stones, from a quarry at Sunderland on the sea, three miles distant: within
them is a draw well, discovered in 1770, in clearing the cellar from sand and rubbish; its
depth is 145 feet, cut through solid rock, of which seventy-five feet are of whinstone. The
remains of a chapel were discovered here, under a prodigious mass of land, in the year 1773;
its architecture was pure Saxon, and the ancient font being found, was preserved in the keep.
The chapel has been rebuilt on the old foundations.

The founder of the Castle is stated by Matthew of Westminster to have been Ida, King of Northumberland.

It was destroyed by the Danes in 993; but about the time of the Conquest was in good repair.
In 1095, it was in the possession of Robert Mowbray, Earl of Northumberland, when it was besieged,
and, after much difficulty, taken by William II. The castle lost the greatest part of its beauty
in a siege after the battle of Hexham. Camden tells us "from that time it has suffered by time
and winds, which throw up incredible quantities of sand from the sea upon its walls, through
the windows which are open." Sir John Forster was governor of it in Elizabeth's reign; and
his grandson John obtained a grant of it and the manor from James the First. His descendant,
Thomas, forfeited it in 1715; but his maternal uncle, Nathaniel, Lord Crewe, bishop of Durham,
purchased his estates, and bequeathed them to charitable purposes in 1720. The sunken rocks
and shifting sands of this coast had long been a terror to the mariners, but under his lordship's
will, Dr. Sharp, then archdeacon of Durham, fitted up the keep of the Castle, for the reception
of suffering seamen, and of property which might be rescued from the fury of the ocean. Regulations
were also adopted, both to prevent accidents on the coast, and to alleviate misfortunes when
they had occurred. A nine pounder, placed at the bottom of the great tower, gives signals to
ships in distress, and in case of a wreck, announces the same to the Custom House officers
and their servants, who hasten to prevent the wreck being plundered. In addition to this, during
a storm, horsemen patrol the coast, and rewards are paid for the earliest intelligence of vessels
in distress. A flag is always hoisted when any ship is seen in distress on the Fern Islands
or Staples; or a rocket thrown up at night, which gives notice to the Holy Island fishermen,
who can put off to the spot when no boat from the main can get over the breakers. Life-boats
have likewise been added to the establishment. The vast increase of the residuary rents of
the Castle estates also enables the trustees to support within its walls two free-schools,
a library, infirmary, thirty beds for shipwrecked sailors, and a granary, whence poor persons
are supplied with provisions at the first price.[5] Altogether, the establishment of Bamborough
merits the epithet of "princely," which it has received from the historians of the county.
Its philanthropic endowment has not been suffered to decay with the romance of olden time,
but the charitable intentions of the testator are fulfilled, so as to maintain a lasting record
of his active benevolence. Such magnificence may be said to eclipse all the glitter and gleam
of chivalry, and make them appear but as idle dreams.

    [5] See Mirror, vol. xiii. p 415.--One of the best features of
    the establishment is the gratuitous circulation of the library for
    twenty miles round; the books being lent to any householder of
    good report residing within twenty miles of the castle.

A boundless view of the ocean presents itself from the towers of Bamborough Castle, studded
with small islands, having the Coquet Island on the south, and the Holy Island on the north.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

ORIGIN OF EPSOM RACES.

In a pleasant little volume modestly entitled Some Particulars relating to the History of Epsom,
the following facts are collected with much diligence. At the present season, they may be acceptable
to our readers.

"When these races first commenced, we have not been able with certainty to trace. Few writers,
who mention the district, do more than simply state the fact, that horse races are annually
held at Epsom.

"Whether they were at first periodical or occasional, we will not presume to determine, though
the latter is, we think, the most probable.

"Races, it is generally agreed, took their origin from, if they did not give birth to, the
Olympic games. The first information we have of their existence in this country is in the reign
of Henry II. At that time, and for many ages afterwards, the sport must have been merely a
rude pastime, perhaps as destitute of the science of the present system, as of the vices, which
are too generally engendered by it.

"There can be no doubt, that Epsom downs (or as they are frequently, though erroneously written
in old writings, Banstead downs) early became the spot, upon which the lovers of racing indulged
their fancy. And, perhaps, the known partiality of King James I., for this species of diversion,
will justify us in ascribing their commencement to the period when he resided at the palace
of Nonsuch.

"The following extract from Clarendon's History of the Rebellion, will shew, that during the
troubles of his unfortunate successor, Charles I., races upon Epsom downs, were viewed as no
uncommon occurrence.--'Soon after the meeting, which was held at Guildford, 18th May, 1648,
to address the two Houses of Parliament, that the King, their only lawful sovereign, might
be restored to his due honors, and might come to his parliament for a personal treaty, &c.--a
meeting of the royalists was held on Banstead (Epsom) downs, under the pretence of a horse
race, and six hundred horses were collected and marched to Reigate.'

"King James had imbibed a predilection for horse races, before he ascended the English throne;
they were in high estimation in Scotland during his minority, previously to which, the English
parliament seem to have turned their attention to the subject.

"We find, that in the time of Henry VII. and his successors, Henry VIII. and Elizabeth, several
acts of parliament were made to prevent the exportation of horses to Scotland, and other parts.

"There is an entry in the Lord's Journal, June 15th, 1540--'At length, the bill is read this
day, for encouraging the breed of horses, of a larger stature, and despatched with unanimous
consent, and without a dissenting voice.'

"The great men of Elizabeth's reign, appear to have been fully disposed to profit by the example
and injunctions of her father. Italian masters were invited over; the art of managing horses
became an universal accomplishment, among the nobility and gentry of England; but most of the
professors, both of equitation and farriery, were foreigners.

"Horses were not yet kept exclusively for the purpose of running races, but gentlemen matched
their hunters or hacknies, and usually rode the race themselves.

"The most fashionable trial, however, of the speed and goodness of their horses, was hunting
red herrings, or 'the train scent,' as it was then called, from the body of some animal, which
had been previously drawn across hedge and ditch. Here the scent was certain and strong, and
the hounds would run upon it to the end, with their utmost speed. The matched horses followed
these hounds, and to be in with them, was generally accounted a very satisfactory proof of
goodness.

"Markham, and that celebrated riding master, Michael Baret, describe, also, another mode of
running matches across the country in those days denominated the wild goose chase; an imitation
of which has continued in occasional use, to the present time, under the name of steeple hunting;
that is to say, two horsemen, drunk or sober, in or out of their wits, fix upon a steeple or
some other conspicuous distant object, to which they make a straight cut over hedge, ditch,
and gate. We think our readers will do any thing but smile, at this rational pastime for reasonable
creatures.

"The wild goose chase, however, at last became more regular and better conducted. It was prescribed,
that after the horse had run twelve score yards, he was to be followed wherever he went by
the others, within a certain distance agreed upon, as twice or thrice his length. A horse being
left behind twelve score, or any limited number of yards, was deemed beaten, and lost the match.

"These rude and barbarous modes of horse-racing gave way, in the reign of James I., to the
more scientific, accurate, and satisfactory trials, of the horses carrying stated weights,
over measured and even ground.

"That monarch, as has before been intimated, brought with him from Scotland, a strong predilection
for the turf, which must have prevailed to a considerable degree in that country, for we find,
that during his reign there, and before his accession to the crown of England, it was deemed
necessary to restrain, by an express law, the passion of the Scots for horse-racing, and laying
large bets on the events.

"The reign of James I. may be fairly stated, as the period when horse-racing first became a
general and national amusement. The races appear to have been at that time conducted nearly
in the same style, as to essentials, as in the present day.

"They were then called bell courses, the prize being a silver bell; the winner was said to
bear or carry the bell.

"Regular prizes were now run for in various parts of England. The king and his court, frequently
attended races at Croydon and Enfield, in the vicinity of London.

"The first match, upon record, in this country, was one against time, which occurred in the
year 1604, when John Lepton,[6] a groom, in the service of King James I., undertook to ride
five times between London and York, from Monday morning until Saturday night, and actually
performed the task within five days.

    [6] This should be John Lenton, and the year 1603,--See Mirror,
    vol. xvii, p. 181.

"At this period, much attention was paid to the pedigrees of horses, for the purpose of enhancing
their reputation and worth. The training discipline, in all its variety of regular food, clothing,
physic, airing, and gallops, was in full use; and the weights that race horses had to carry
were adjusted; the most usual of which were ten stone.

"We find that, soon after the accession of Charles I., an ordinance was issued, enjoining the
substitution of bits or curbs, instead of snaffles, which had probably been of late introduction
in the army. Not long afterwards, the king granted a special licence to William Smith and others,
to import into this kingdom, horses, mares and geldings; further enjoining them to provide
coach horses of the height of fourteen hands and above, and not less than three, nor exceeding
seven years of age.

"During the civil wars, amusements of the turf were partially suspended, but not forgotten;
for we find that Mr. Place, stud-master to Cromwell, was proprietor of the famous horse, White
Turk, (the sire of Wormwood and Commoner) and of several capital brood mares, one of which,
a great favourite, he concealed in a vault, during the search after Cromwell's effects, at
the time of the Restoration, from which circumstance, she took the name of the Coffin Mare,
and is designated as such in various pedigrees.

"King Charles II., soon after his restoration, re-established the races at Newmarket, which
had been instituted by James I. He divided them into regular meetings, and substituted, both
there and at other places, silver cups or bowls, of the value of one hundred pounds, for the
royal gift of the ancient bells, which were in consequence generally dropped, both in name
and effect.

"William III., though not fond of the turf, paid much attention to the breed of horses for
martial service; and in his reign some of the most celebrated stallions were imported.

"George, Prince of Denmark, was a great amateur of horse-racing. He obtained from his royal
consort, Queen Anne, grants of royal plates for several places, among which Epsom is, however,
not mentioned.

"King George I. is not handed down to us as a sporting character; but towards the latter end
of his reign, the change of the royal plates into purses of hundred guineas each took place.

"In the 13th year of the reign of King George II., an act, cap. 19. was passed, 'to restrain
and prevent the excessive increase of horse races.'

"By this act, after reciting 'that the great number of horse races for small plates, prizes,
or sums of money had contributed very much to the encouragement of idleness, to the impoverishment
of many of the meaner sort of the subjects of this kingdom, and to the prejudice of the breed
of strong and useful horses;' it was enacted that no person should, thenceforth, enter and
start more than one horse, mare or gelding, for one and the same plate, prize, or sum of money.
And that no plate, or prize of a less value than 50l. should be run for, under the penalty of 200l.

"It was also by the same act further enacted, that at every such race, for a plate or prize
of the value of 50l. and upwards, each horse, if five years old, should carry ten stone; if
six years old, eleven stone; and if seven years old, twelve stone. And that the owner of any
horse, carrying less than the specified weight, should forfeit his horse, and pay the penalty
of 200l."

(TO BE CONCLUDED IN OUR NEXT.)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FAIR OF MAY FAIR.

The volumes of sketches of fashionable life with this quaint title will serve to amuse a few
inveterate novel-readers; while occasional pages may induce others to take up the thread of
the narrative. The flying follies of high life, or rather, we think, of affected ton, are hit
off with truth and vigour, and there is a pleasantry in the writer's style which is an acceptable
relief to the dulness of common-place details. We shall endeavour to detach a scene or two,
one, as a specimen of "the art of ingeniously tormenting," and the incipient waywardness of
a newly-married pair.

