Thus was legalised the Reign of Terror, which, founded in false reasoning and insane fears,
we must, nevertheless, look back upon as a thing, at least to a certain extent, reconcilable
with a sense of duty; inasmuch as even while signing warrants for transferring hundreds of
people to the Revolutionary Tribunal--which was equivalent to sending them to the scaffold--Robespierre
imagined that he was acting throughout under a clear, an imperious necessity: only ridding
society of the elements that disturbed its purity and tranquillity. Stupendous hallucination!
And did this fanatic really feel no pang of conscience? That will afterwards engage our consideration.
Frequently, he was called on to proscribe and execute his most intimate friends; but it does
not appear that any personal consideration ever stayed his proceedings. First, he swept away
Royalists and aristocrats; next, he sacrificed the Girondists; last, he came to his companion-Jacobins.
Accusing Danton and his friends of a tendency to moderation, he had the dexterity to get them
proscribed and beheaded. When Danton was seized, he could hardly credit his senses: he who
had long felt himself sure of being one day dictator by public acclamation, and to have been
deceived by that dreamer, Robespierre, was most humiliating. But Robespierre would not dare
to put him to death! Grave miscalculation! He was immolated like the rest; the crowd looking
on with indifference. Along with him perished Camille Desmoulins, a young man of letters, and
a Jacobin, but convicted of advocating clemency. Robespierre was one of Camille's private and
most valued friends; he had been his instructor in politics, and had become one of the trustees
under his marriage-settlement. Robespierre visited at the house of his protégé; chatted with
the young and handsome Madame Desmoulins at her parties; and frequently dandled the little
Horace Desmoulins on his knee, and let him play with his bunch of seals. Yet, because they
were adherents of Danton, he sent husband and wife to the scaffold within a few weeks of each
other! What eloquent and touching appeals were made to old recollections by the mother of Madame
Desmoulins. Robespierre was reminded of little Horace, and of his duty as a family guardian.
All would not do. His heart was marble; and so the wretched pair were guillotined. Camille's
letter to his wife, the night before he was led to the scaffold, cannot be read without emotion.
He died with a lock of her hair clasped convulsively in his hand.

Having thus cleared away to some extent all those who stood in the way of his views, Robespierre
bethought himself of acting a new part in public affairs, calculated, as he thought, to dignify
the Republic. Chaumette, a mean confederate of Hebert, and a mouthpiece of the rabble, had,
by consent of the Convention, established Paganism, or the worship of Reason, as the national
religion. Robespierre never gave his approval to this outrage, and took the earliest opportunity
of restoring the worship of the Supreme. It is said, that of all the missions with which he
believed himself to be charged, the highest, the holiest in his eyes, was the regeneration
of the religious sentiment of the people: to unite heaven and earth by this bond of a faith
which the Republic had broken, was for him the end, the consummation of the Revolution. In
one of his paroxysms, he delivered an address to the Convention, which induced them to pass
a law, acknowledging the existence of God, and ordaining a public festival to inaugurate the
new religion. This fête took place on the 8th of June 1794. Robespierre headed the procession
to the Champ de Mars; and he seemed on the occasion to have at length reached the grand realisation
of all his hopes and desires. From this coup de théâtre he returned home, magnified in the
estimation of the people, but ruined in the eyes of the Convention. His conduct had been too
much that of one whose next step was to the restoration of the throne, with himself as its
occupant. By Fouché, Tallien, Collot-d'Herbois, and some others, he was now thwarted in all
his schemes. His wish was to close the Reign of Terror and allow the new moral world to begin;
for his late access of devotional feeling had, in reality, disposed him to adopt benign and
clement measures. But to arrest carnage was now beyond his power; he had invoked a demon which
would not be laid. Assailed by calumny, he made the Convention resound with his speeches; spoke
of fresh proscriptions to put down intrigue; and spread universal alarm among the members.
In spite of the most magniloquent orations, he saw that his power was nearly gone. Sick at
heart, he began to absent himself from committees, which still continued to send to the scaffold
numbers whose obscure rank should have saved them from suspicion or vengeance.

At this juncture, Robespierre was earnestly entreated by one of his more resolute adherents,
St Just, to play a bold game for the dictatorship, which he represented as the only means of
saving the Republic from anarchy. Anonymous letters to the same effect also poured in upon
him; and prognostics of his greatness, uttered by an obscure fortune-teller, were listened
to by the great demagogue with something like superstitious respect. But for this personal
elevation he was not prepared. Pacing up and down his apartment, and striking his forehead
with his hand, he candidly acknowledged that he was not made for power; while the bare idea
of doing anything to endanger the Republic amounted, in his mind, to a species of sacrilege.
At this crisis in his fate, therefore, he temporised: he sought peace, if not consolation,
in solitude. He took long walks in the woods, where he spent hours seated on the ground, or
leaning against a tree, his face buried in his hands, or earnestly bent on the surrounding
natural objects. What was the precise tenor of his meditations, it would be deeply interesting
to know. Did the great promoter of the Revolution ponder on the failure of his aspirations
after a state of human perfectibility? Was he torn by remorse on seeing rise up, in imagination,
the thousands of innocent individuals whom, in vindication of a theory, he had consigned to
an ignominious and violent death, yet whose removal had, politically speaking, proved altogether
fruitless?

It is the more general belief, that in these solitary rambles Robespierre was preparing an
oration, which, as he thought, should silence all his enemies, and restore him to parliamentary
favour. A month was devoted to this rhetorical effort; and, unknown to him, during that interval
all parties coalesced, and adopted the resolution to treat his oration when it came with contempt,
and, at all hazards, to have him proscribed. The great day came, July 26 (8th Thermidor), 1794.
His speech, which he read from a paper, was delivered in his best style--in vain. It was followed
by yells and hootings; and, with dismay, he retired to the Jacobins, to deliver it over again--as
if to seek support among a more subservient audience. Next day, on entering the Convention,
he was openly accused by Tallien and Billaud-Varennes of aspiring to despotic power. A scene
of tumult ensued, and, amid cries of Down with the tyrant! a writ for his committal to prison
was drawn out. It must be considered a fine trait in the character of Robespierre the younger,
that he begged to be included in the same decree of proscription with his brother. This wish
was readily granted; and St Just, Couthon (who had lost the use of his legs, and was always
carried about in an arm-chair), and Le Bas, were added to the number of the proscribed. Rescued,
however, from the gendarmes by an insurrectionary force, headed by Henriot, Robespierre and
his colleagues were conducted in triumph to the Hôtel de Ville. Here, during the night, earnest
consultations were held; and the adherents of Robespierre implored him in desperation, as the
last chance of safety for them all, to address a rousing proclamation to the sections. At length,
yielding unwillingly to these frantic appeals, he commenced writing the required address; and
it was while subscribing his name to this seditious document, that the soldiers of the Convention
burst in upon him, and he was shot through the jaw by one of the gendarmes. At the same moment,
Le Bas shot himself through the heart. All were made prisoners, and carried off--the dead body
of Le Bas not excepted.

       *       *       *       *       *

While residing for a short time in Paris in 1849, we were one day conducted by a friend to
a large house, with an air of faded grandeur, in the eastern faubourgs, which had belonged
to an aged republican, recently deceased. He wished me to examine a literary curiosity, which
was to be seen among other relics of the great Revolution. The curiosity in question was the
proclamation, in the handwriting of Robespierre, to which he was in the act of inscribing his
signature, when assaulted and made prisoner in the Hôtel de Ville. It was a small piece of
paper, contained in a glass-frame; and, at this distance of time, could not fail to excite
an interest in visitors. The few lines of writing, commencing with the stirring words: 'Courage,
mes compatriotes!' ended with only a part of the subscription. The letters, Robes, were all
that were appended, and were followed by a blur of the pen; while the lower part of the paper
shewed certain discolorations, as if made by drops of blood. And so this was the last surviving
token of the notorious Robespierre! It is somewhat curious, that no historian seems to be aware
of its existence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stretched on a table in one of the anterooms of the Convention; his head leaning against a
chair; his fractured jaw supported by a handkerchief passed round the top of his head; a glass
with vinegar and a sponge at his side to moisten his feverish lips; speechless and almost motionless,
yet conscious!--there lay Robespierre--the clerks, who, a few days ago, had cringed before
him, now amusing themselves by pricking him with their penknives, and coarsely jesting over
his fall. Great crowds, likewise, flocked to see him while in this undignified posture, and
he was overwhelmed with the vilest expressions of hatred and abuse. The mental agony which
he must have experienced during this humiliating exhibition, could scarcely fail to be increased
on hearing himself made the object of unsparing and boisterous declamations from the adjoining
tribune.

At three o'clock in the afternoon (July 28), the prisoners were placed before the Revolutionary
Tribunal, and at six, the whole were tied in carts, the dead body of Le Bas included, and conducted
to execution. To this wretched band were added the whole family of the Duplays, with the exception
of the mother; she having been strangled the previous night by female furies, who had broken
into her house, and hung her to the iron rods of her bedstead. They were guiltless of any political
crime; but their private connection with the principal object of proscription was considered
to be sufficient for their condemnation. The circumstance of these individuals being involved
in his fate, could not fail to aggravate the bitterness of Robespierre's reflections. As the
dismal cortège wended its way along the Rue St Honoré, he was loaded with imprecations by women
whose husbands he had destroyed, and the shouts of children, whom he had deprived of parents,
were the last sounds heard by him on earth. Yet he betrayed not the slightest emotion--perhaps
he only pitied the ignorance of his persecutors. In the midst of the feelings of a misunderstood
and martyred man, his head dropped into the basket!

These few facts and observations respecting the career of Robespierre, enable us to form a
tolerably correct estimate of his character. The man was a bigot. A perfect Republic was his
faith, his religion. To integrity, perseverance, and extraordinary self-denial under temptation,
he united only a sanguine temperament and moderate abilities for the working-out of a mistaken
principle. Honest and zealous in his purpose, his conduct was precisely analogous to that of
all religious persecutors--sparing no pain or bloodshed to accomplish what he believed to be
a good end. Let us grant that he was a monomaniac, the question remains as to his general accountability.
If he is to be acquitted on the score of insanity, who is to be judged? Not so are we to exempt
great criminals from punishment and obloquy. Robespierre knew thoroughly what he was about;
and far as he was misled in his motives, he must be held responsible for his actions. Before
entering on the desperate enterprise of demolishing all existing institutions, with the hope
of reconstructing the social fabric, it was his duty to be assured that his aims were practicable,
and that he was himself authorised to think and act for the whole of mankind, or specially
commissioned to kill and terrify into his doctrines. Instead of this, there is nothing to shew
that he had formed any distinct scheme of a government to take the place of that which he had
aided in destroying. All we learn is, that there hovered in his mind's eye some vague Utopia,
in which public affairs would go on very much of themselves, through the mere force of universal
Benevolence, liberated from the bosom of Nature. For his folly and audacity in nourishing so
wild a theory, and still more for the reckless butcheries by which he sought to bring it into
operation, we must, on a review of his whole character, adhere to the popular belief on the
subject. Acquitted, as he must necessarily be, of the charge of personal ambition, he was still
a monster, only the more dangerous and detestable for justifying murder on the ground of principle.

W.C.

INFANT SCHOOLS IN HUNGARY.

The Austrian government has for some years been exerting itself, in connection with the clergy,
for the improvement and spread of education in all the provinces of the empire, being anxious
to do all in their power to save the country from those excesses which are so often found in
connection with ignorance. As an Englishman, living in friendly intercourse with members of
the imperial family, and many persons high in the administration, I am happy to avow my thorough
conviction, that such, pure and simple, is the object held in view in the establishment of
schools throughout the empire, and above all, in that of the infant schools, which are now
planted in every place where there exists a sufficiency of population. I have all along taken
a deep interest in these little seminaries in the kingdoms of Bohemia and Hungary, and am highly
sensible of the liberal and humane principles on which they are conducted.

Each contains from two to three hundred children, between one and a half and five years of
age, all of them being the offspring of the humbler classes, and many of them orphans. All
are instructed in the same room, but classed apart; that is, the girls occupy one half of the
apartment, and the boys the other, leaving an avenue between them, which is occupied by the
instructors. The boys are under the superintendence of a master, and the girls under that of
a mistress. Both, however, teach or attend to the various necessities of either, as circumstances
may require. Infants too young to learn, and those who are sent, either because they are orphans,
or because the extreme poverty of the mother obliges her to do outwork, are amused with toys
and pictures, all, however, of an instructive nature, and which the elder children delight
to exhibit and explain to them in their own quaint little ways. I have frequently seen an infant,
scarcely able to walk, brought in for the first time, and left on one of the benches of the
school-room, surrounded by those already initiated. The alarm its new position occasioned to
the little creature, at thus suddenly finding itself abandoned by the only person with whom
it was familiar, in the midst of a multitude of unknown faces, can easily be imagined. A flood
of tears was the first vent to its feelings, accompanied by a petulant endeavour to follow
its parent or nurse. It was immediately, however, surrounded by a score of little comforters,
who, full of the remembrance of past days, when their fears and their sadness were in like
manner soothed and dissipated, would use a thousand little arts of consolation--one presenting
a toy or picture, another repeating what has almost become a formula of kindly re-assurance,
till smiles and sunshine would succeed to tears and clouds upon that little brow, and confidence
and content to fear and mistrust. I have often seen the day thus pass with neophytes as a dream,
only to be broken when the parent or nurse, returning to take them home, found them in the
centre of a little joyous group, the gayest of the gay!

One, after all, cannot wonder at this change, when he contrasts the scenery of the interior
of an infant school with that of the generality of poor homes. The child, making, as it were,
its first voyage in life, has here been introduced, not merely to a society conducted on principles
of gentleness and kindness, but to a fairyland of marvels for the fascination of its intellectual
faculties. From the ceiling to the dado--the wainscotted space at the base, for in Hungary
this old arrangement is still maintained in its fullest form--the walls are covered with pictures
of scripture scenes and objects in natural history; while the dado itself, terminating above
in a shelf, exhibits busts, stuffed animals, and pots of flowers--the whole place, indeed,
being a kind of museum, specially adapted for the enjoyment as well as instruction of the young.
At first, filled with wonder and delight, the infant begins to study the meaning and character
of these objects: after a short attendance, you find they can tell the names of many, and speak
many things regarding them. One day, while attending a Bohemian infant school, which was dismissing,
and as I was examining some of the birds upon the shelf, a little hand was insinuated into
mine, as if to get it warmed--as is often done by children--when, looking down, I beheld a
bright, intelligent face, apparently eager to make some communication. 'Tuzok, tuzok!' ('Bustard,
bustard!') said a little voice. Encouraged by my smile, there was immediately added: 'Ez tuzok,
ez mazzar honban, tisza fetöl jönn;' ('That is a bustard from Hungary, from the river Teiss.')
Another little one, attracted by this observation, pointed to the elephant, and said in German:
'Und der ist elephant: er kommt von weiten, von ausland--von morgenland!' ('And that is the
elephant: it comes from far, from a foreign land--from the morning-land!')--that is, the East!

The children learn the first rudiments of religion, duty and obedience to their parents and
teachers, spelling, &c. After the expiration of the time allotted to them here, they are sent
to the normal schools, where they are instructed in all the various branches of education which
are necessary to fit them for any situation or profession for which their several talents seem
to have destined them.

