I made a hurried drawing of it, and we then turned to the left, across the Campagna, to seek
the grotto of Egeria. Before us, across the brown plain, extended the Sabine Mountains; in
the clear air the houses of Tivoli, twenty miles distant, were plainly visible. The giant aqueduct
stretched in a long line across the Campagna to the mountain of Albano, its broken and disjointed
arches resembling the vertebræ of some mighty monster. With the ruins of temples and tombs
strewing the plain for miles around it, it might be called the spine to the skeleton of Rome.

We passed many ruins, made beautiful by the clinging ivy, and reached a solemn grove of ever-green
oak, overlooking a secluded valley. I was soon in the meadow, leaping ditches, rustling through
cane-brakes, and climbing up to mossy arches to find out the fountain of Numa's nymph; while
my companion, who had less taste for the romantic, looked on complacently from the leeward
side of the hill. At length we found an arched vault in the hill-side, overhung with wild vines,
and shaded in summer by umbrageous trees that grow on the soil above. At the further end a
stream of water gushed out from beneath a broken statue, and an aperture in the wall revealed
a dark cavern behind. This, then, was "Egeria's grot." The ground was trampled by the feet
of cattle, and the taste of the water was anything but pleasant. But it was not for Numa and
his nymph alone, that I sought it so ardently. The sunbeam of another mind lingers on the spot.
See how it gilds the ruined and neglected fount!

    "The mosses of thy fountain still are sprinkled
      With thine Elysian water-drops; the face
    Of thy cave-guarded spring, with years unwrinkled,
      Reflects the meek-eyed genius of the place,
    Whose wild, green margin, now no more erase
      Art's works; no more its sparkling waters sleep,
    Prisoned in marble; bubbling from the base
      Of the cleft statue, with a gentle leap,
    The rill runs o'er, and 'round, fern, flowers and ivy creep,
      Fantastically tangled."

I tried to creep into the grotto, but it was unpleasantly dark, and no nymph appeared to chase
away the shadow with her lustrous eyes. The whole hill is pierced by subterranean chambers
and passages.

I spent another Sunday morning in St. Peter's. High mass was being celebrated in one of the
side Chapels, and a great number of the priesthood were present. The music was simple, solemn,
and very impressive, and a fine effect was produced by the combination of the full, sonorous
voices of the priests, and the divine sweetness of that band of mutilated unfortunates, who
sing here. They sang with a full, clear tone, sweet as the first lispings of a child, but it
was painful to hear that melody, purchased at the expense of manhood.

Near the dome is a bronze statue of St. Peter, which seems to have a peculiar atmosphere of
sanctity. People say their prayers before it by hundreds, and then kiss its toe, which is nearly
worn away by the application of so many thousand lips. I saw a crowd struggle most irreverently
to pay their devotion to it. There was a great deal of jostling and confusion; some went so
far as to thrust the faces of others against the toe as they were about to kiss it. What is
more remarkable, it is an antique statue of Jupiter, taken, I believe, from the Pantheon. An
English artist, showing it to a friend, just arrived in Rome, remarked very wittily that it
was the statue of Jew-Peter.

I went afterwards to the Villa Borghese, outside the Porta del Popolo. The gardens occupy thirty
or forty acres, and are always thronged in the afternoon with the carriages of the Roman and
foreign nobility. In summer, it must be a heavenly place; even now, with its musical fountains,
long avenues, and grassy slopes, crowned with the fan-like branches of the Italian pine, it
reminds one of the fairy landscapes of Boccaccio. We threaded our way through the press of
carriages on the Pincian hill, and saw the enormous bulk of St. Peter's loom up against the
sunset sky. I counted forty domes and spires in that part of Rome that lay below us--but on
what a marble glory looked that sun eighteen centuries ago! Modern Rome--it is in comparison,
a den of filth, cheats and beggars!

Yesterday, while taking a random stroll through the city, I visited the church of St. Onofrio,
where Tasso is buried. It is not far from St. Peter's, on the summit of a lonely hill. The
building was closed, but an old monk admitted us on application. The interior is quite small,
but very old, and the floor is covered with the tombs of princes and prelates of a past century.
Near the end I found a small slab with the inscription:

        "TORQUATI TASSI
             OSSA
          HIC JACENT."

That was all--but what more was needed? Who knows not the name and fame and sufferings of the
glorious bard? The pomp of gold and marble are not needed to deck the slumber of genius. On
the wall, above, hangs an old and authentic portrait of him, very similar to the engravings
in circulation. A crown of laurel encircles the lofty brow, and the eye has that wild, mournful
expression, which accords so well with the mysterious tale of his love and madness.

Owing to the mountain storms, which imposed on us the expense of a carriage-journey to Rome,
we shall be prevented from going further. One great cause of this is the heavy fee required
for passports in Italy. In most of the Italian cities, the cost of the different visès amounts
to $4 or $5; a few such visits as these reduce our funds very materially. The American Consul's
fee is $2, owing to the illiberal course of our government, in withholding all salary from
her Consuls in Europe. Mr. Brown, however, in whose family we spent last evening very pleasantly,
on our requesting that he would deduct something from the usual fee, kindly declined accepting
anything. We felt this kindness the more, as from the character which some of our late Consuls
bear in Italy, we had not anticipated it. We shall remember him with deeper gratitude than
many would suppose, who have never known what it was to be a foreigner.

To-morrow, therefore, we leave Rome--here is, at last, the limit of our wanderings. We have
spent much toil and privation to reach here, and now, after two weeks' rambling and musing
among the mighty relics of past glory, we turn our faces homeward. The thrilling hope I cherished
during the whole pilgrimage--to climb Parnassus and drink from Castaly, under the blue heaven
of Greece (both far easier than the steep hill and hidden fount of poesy, I worship afar off)--to
sigh for fallen art, beneath the broken friezes of the Parthenon, and look with a pilgrim's
eye on the isles of Homer and of Sappho--must be given up, unwillingly and sorrowfully though
it be. These glorious anticipations--among the brightest that blessed my boyhood--are slowly
wrung from me by stern necessity. Even Naples, the lovely Parthenope, where the Mantuan bard
sleeps on the sunny shore, by the bluest of summer seas, with the disinterred Pompeii beyond,
and Pæstum amid its roses on the lonely Calabrian plain--even this, almost within sight of
the cross of St. Peter's, is barred from me. Farewell then, clime of "fame and eld," since
it must be! A pilgrim's blessing for the lore ye have taught him!

CHAPTER XLII.

Palo.--The sea is breaking in long swells below the window, and a glorious planet shines in
the place of the sunset that has died away. This is our first resting-place since leaving Rome.
We have been walking all day over the bare and dreary Campagna, and it is a relief to look
at last on the broad, blue expanse of the Tyrrhene Sea.

When we emerged from the cool alleys of Rome, and began to climb up and down the long, barren
swells, the sun beat down on us with an almost summer heat. On crossing a ridge near Castel
Guido, we took our last look of Rome, and saw from the other side the sunshine lying like a
dazzling belt on the far Mediterranean. The country is one of the most wretched that can be
imagined. Miles and miles of uncultivated land, with scarcely a single habitation, extend on
either side of the road, and the few shepherds who watch their flocks in the marshy hollows,
look wild and savage enough for any kind of crime. It made me shudder to see every face bearing
such a villainous stamp.

Civita Vecchia, Jan. 1.--We left Palo just after sunrise, and walked in the cool of the morning
beside the blue Mediterranean. On the right, the low outposts of the Appenines rose, bleak
and brown, the narrow plain between them and the shore resembling a desert, so destitute was
it of the signs of civilized life. A low, white cloud that hung over the sea, afar off, showed
us the locality of Sardinia, though the land was not visible. The sun shone down warmly, and
with the blue sky and bluer sea we could easily have imagined a milder season. The barren scenery
took a new interest in my eyes, when I remembered that I was spending amidst it that birth-day
which removes me, in the eyes of the world, from dependant youth to responsible manhood.

In the afternoon we found a beautiful cove in a curve of the shore, and went to bathe in the
cold surf. It was very refreshing, but not quite equal to the sulphur-bath on the road to Tivoli.
The mountains now ran closer to the sea, and the road was bordered with thickets of myrtle.
I stopped often to beat my staff into the bushes, and inhale the fragrance that arose from
their crushed leaves. The hills were covered with this poetical shrub, and any acre of the
ground would make the fortune of a florist at home.

The sun was sinking in a sky of orange and rose, as Civita Vecchia came in sight on a long
headland before us. Beyond the sea stretched the dim hills of Corsica. We walked nearly an
hour in the clear moonlight, by the sounding shore, before the gate of the city was reached.
We have found a tolerable inn, and are now enjoying the pleasures of supper and rest.

Marseilles, Jan. 16.--At length we tread the shore of France--of sunny Provence--the last unvisited
realm we have to roam through before returning home. It is with a feeling of more than common
relief that we see around us the lively faces and hear the glib tongues of the French. It is
like an earnest that the "roughing" we have undergone among Bohemian boors and Italian savages
is well nigh finished, and that, henceforth, we shall find civilized sympathy and politeness,
if nothing more, to make the way smoother. Perhaps the three woful days which terminated at
half-past two yesterday afternoon, as we passed through the narrow strait into the beautiful
harbor which Marseilles encloses in her sheltering heart, make it still pleasanter. Now, while
there is time, I must describe those three days, for who could write on the wet deck of a steamboat,
amid all the sights and smells which a sea voyage creates? Description does not flourish when
the bones are sore with lying on planks, and the body shivering like an aspen leaf with cold.

About the old town of Civita Vecchia there is not much to be said, except that it has the same
little harbor which Trajan dug for it, and is as dirty and disagreeable as a town can well
be. We saw nothing except a little church, and the prison-yard, full of criminals, where the
celebrated bandit, Gasparoni, has been now confined for eight years.

The Neapolitan Company's boat, Mongibello, was advertised to leave the 12th, so, after procuring
our passports, we went to the office to take passage. The official, however, refused to give
us tickets for the third place, because, forsooth, we were not servants or common laborers!
and words were wasted in trying to convince him that it would make no difference. As the second
cabin fare was nearly three times as high, and entirely too dear for us, we went to the office
of the Tuscan Company, whose boat was to leave in two days. Through the influence of an Italian
gentleman, secretary to Bartolini, the American Consul, whom we met, they agreed to take us
for forty-five francs, on deck, the price of the Neapolitan boat being thirty.

Rather than stay two days longer in the dull town, we went again to the latter Company's office
and offered them forty-five francs to go that day in their boat. This removed the former scruples,
and tickets were immediately made out. After a plentiful dinner at the albergo, to prepare
ourselves for the exposure, we filled our pockets with a supply of bread, cheese, and figs,
for the voyage. We then engaged a boatman, who agreed to row us out to the steamer for two
pauls, but after he had us on board and an oar's length from the quay, he said two pauls apiece
was his bargain. I instantly refused, and, summoning the best Italian I could command, explained
our agreement; but he still persisted in demanding double price. The dispute soon drew a number
of persons to the quay, some of whom, being boatmen, sided with him. Finding he had us safe
in his boat, his manner was exceedingly calm and polite. He contradicted me with a "pardon,
Signore!" accompanying the words with a low bow and a graceful lift of his scarlet cap, and
replied to my indignant accusations in the softest and most silvery-modulated Roman sentences.
I found, at last, that if I was in the right, I cut the worse figure of the two, and, therefore,
put an end to the dispute by desiring him to row on at his own price.

The hour of starting was two, but the boat lay quietly in the harbor till four, when we glided
out on the open sea, and went northward, with the blue hills of Corsica far on our left. A
gorgeous sunset faded away over the water, and the moon rose behind the low mountains of the
Italian coast. Having found a warm and sheltered place near the chimney, I drew my beaver further
over my eyes, to keep out the moonlight, and lay down on the deck with my knapsack under my
head. It was a hard bed, indeed; and the first time I attempted to rise, I found myself glued
to the floor by the pitch which was smeared along the seams of the boards! Our fellow-sufferers
were a company of Swiss soldiers going home after a four years' service under the King of Naples,
but they took to their situation more easily than we.

Sleep was next to impossible, so I paced the deck occasionally, looking out on the moonlit
sea and the dim shores on either side. A little after midnight we passed between Elba and Corsica.
The dark crags of Elba rose on our right, and the bold headlands of Napoleon's isle stood opposite,
at perhaps twenty miles' distance. There was something dreary and mysterious in the whole scene,
viewed at such a time--the grandeur of his career, who was born on one and exiled to the other,
gave it a strange and thrilling interest.

We made the light-house before the harbor of Leghorn at dawn, and by sunrise were anchored
within the mole. I sat on the deck the whole day, watching the picturesque vessels that skimmed
about with their lateen sails, and wondering how soon the sailors, on the deck of a Boston
brig anchored near us, would see my distant country. Leaving at four o'clock, we dashed away,
along the mountain coast of Carrara, at a rapid rate. The wind was strong and cold, but I lay
down behind the boiler, and though the boards were as hard as ever, slept two or three hours.
When I awoke at half-past two in the morning, after a short rest, Genoa was close at hand.
We glided between the two revolving lights on the mole, into the harbor, with the amphitheatre
on which the superb city sits, dark and silent around us. It began raining soon, the engine-fire
sank down, and as there was no place of shelter, we were shortly wet to the skin.

How long those dreary hours seemed, till the dawn came! All was cold and rainy and dark, and
we waited in a kind of torpid misery for daylight. The entire day, I passed sitting in a coil
of rope under the stern of the cabin, and even the beauties of the glorious city scarce affected
me. We lay opposite the Doria palace, and the constellation of villas and towers still glittered
along the hills; but who, with his teeth chattering and limbs numb and damp, could feel pleasure
in looking on Elysium itself?

We got under way again at three o'clock. The rain very soon hid the coast from view, and the
waves pitched our boat about in a manner not at all pleasant. I soon experienced sea-sickness
in all its horrors. We had accidentally made the acquaintance of one of the Neapolitan sailors,
who had been in America. He was one of those rough, honest natures I like to meet with--their
blunt kindness, is better than refined and oily-tongued suavity. As we were standing by the
chimney, reflecting dolefully how we should pass the coming night, he came up and said; "I
am in trouble about you, poor fellows! I don't think I shall sleep three hours to-night, to
think of you. I shall tell all the cabin they shall give you beds, because they shall see you
are gentlemen!" Whether he did so or the officers were moved by spontaneous commiseration,
we knew not, but in half an hour a servant beckoned us into the cabin, and berths were given us.

I turned in with a feeling of relief not easily imagined, and forgave the fleas willingly,
in the comfort of a shelter from the storm. When I awoke, it was broad day. A fresh breeze
was drying the deck, and the sun was half-visible among breaking clouds. We had just passed
the Isle of the Titan, one of the Isles des Hyères, and the bay of Toulon opened on our right.
It was a rugged, rocky coast, but the hills of sunny Provence rose beyond. The sailor came
up with a smile of satisfaction on his rough countenance, and said: "You did sleep better,
I think; I did tell them all!" coupling his assertion with a round curse on the officers.

We ran along, beside the brown, bare crags till nearly noon, when we reached the eastern point
of the Bay of Marseilles. A group of small islands, formed of bare rocks, rising in precipices
three or four hundred feet high, guards the point; on turning into the Gulf, we saw on the
left the rocky islands of Pomegues, and If, with the castle crowning the latter, in which Mirabeau
was confined. The ranges of hills which rose around the great bay, were spotted and sprinkled
over with thousands of the country cottages of the Marseilles merchants, called Bastides; the
city itself was hidden from view. We saw apparently the whole bay, but there was no crowd of
vessels, such as would befit a great sea-port; a few spires peeping over a hill, with some
fortifications, were all that was visible. At length we turned suddenly aside and entered a
narrow strait, between two forts. Immediately a broad harbor opened before us, locked in the
very heart of the hills on which the city stands. It was covered with vessels of all nations;
on leaving the boat, we rowed past the "Aristides," bearing the blue cross of Greece, and I
searched eagerly and found, among the crowded masts, the starry banner of America.

I have rambled through all the principal parts of Marseilles, and am very favorably impressed
with its appearance. Its cleanliness and the air of life and business which marks the streets,
are the more pleasant after coming from the dirty and depopulated Italian cities. The broad
avenues, lined with trees, which traverse its whole length, must be delightful in summer. I
am often reminded, by its spacious and crowded thoroughfares, of our American cities. Although
founded by the Phoceans, three thousand years ago, it has scarcely an edifice of greater antiquity
than three or four centuries, and the tourist must content himself with wandering through the
narrow streets of the old town, observing the Provençal costumes, or strolling among Turks
and Moors on the Quai d'Orléans.

We have been detained here a day longer than was necessary, owing to some misunderstanding
about the passports. This has not been favorable to our reduced circumstances, for we have,
now but twenty francs each, left, to take us to Paris. Our boots, too, after serving us so
long, begin to show signs of failing in this hour of adversity. Although we are somewhat accustomed
to such circumstances, I cannot help shrinking when I think of the solitary napoleon and the
five hundred miles to be passed. Perhaps, however, the coin will do as much as its great namesake,
and achieve for us a Marengo in the war with fate.

CHAPTER XLIII.

PILGRIMAGE TO VAUCLUSE AND JOURNEY UP THE RHONE.

We left Marseilles about nine o'clock, on a dull, rainy morning, for Avignon and the Rhone,
intending to take in our way the glen of Vaucluse. The dirty faubourgs stretch out along the
road for a great distance, and we trudged through them, past foundries, furnaces and manufactories,
considerably disheartened with the prospect. We wound among the bleak stony hills, continually
ascending, for nearly three hours. Great numbers of cabarets, frequented by the common people,
lined the roads, and we met continually trains of heavy laden wagons, drawn by large mules.
The country is very wild and barren, and would have been tiresome, except for the pine groves
with their beautiful green foliage. We got something to eat with difficulty at an inn, for
the people spoke nothing but the Provençal dialect, and the place was so cold and cheerless
we were glad to go out again into the storm. It mattered little to us, that we heard the language
in which the gay troubadours of king René sung their songs of love. We thought more of our
dripping clothes and numb, cold limbs, and would have been glad to hear instead, the strong,
hearty German tongue, full of warmth and kindly sympathy for the stranger. The wind swept drearily
among the hills; black, gusty clouds covered the sky, and the incessant rain filled the road
with muddy pools. We looked at the country chateaux, so comfortable in the midst of their sheltering
poplars, with a sigh, and thought of homes afar off, whose doors were never closed to us.

This was all forgotten, when we reached Aix, and the hostess of the Café d'Afrique filled her
little stove with fresh coal, and hung our wet garments around it, while her daughter, a pale-faced,
crippled child, smiled kindly on us and tried to talk with us in French. Putting on our damp,
heavy coats again, B---- and I rambled through the streets, while our frugal supper was preparing.
We saw the statue of the Bon Roi René, who held at Aix his court of shepherds and troubadours--the
dark Cathedral of St. Saveur--the ancient walls and battlements, and gazed down the valley
at the dark, precipitous mass of Mont St. Victor, at whose base Marius obtained a splendid
victory over the barbarians.

