"Was it thus that the nobles took their triumphs?" the people questioned low of each other.
"And where was the Lady Marina, the daughter of Messer Magagnati--their lady, who had been
good to the people?"

"She was there--within," some one answered, "she was not strong--the salutes were too much
for her. She was waiting within, with her maidens."

"To miss such a beautiful festa! Santa Maria!"--the strong peasant mothers, clasping their
infants in their arms, with prattling, barefooted children clinging to their mantles--so glad
for this glimpse of holiday--looked again at the beautiful, stern face of this father who had
youth and gifts and wealth, his seat in the Consiglio, his boy in his arms--but no smile for
the people pressing around him ready to shout his name, and they crossed themselves with a
nameless yearning and dread.

But the nobles, with more understanding, looked upon him and forgot their jealousy.

For the Lady Marina was within, waiting with her maidens in a private chamber of the arsenal
until the hour of the banquet, when her presence had been required by the Signoria. Only so
much had her father--the giver of the gift--and Marcantonio, on this day of honor to his name--been
able to obtain of the imperious Republic. There were rumors afloat, questions were asked, and
the body of nobles must bear witness to the clemency of the State, who could be gracious in
forgiving. If the Lady of the Giustiniani might not have the custody of her child, it was not
that because of her transgressions they would refuse her any grace or honor.

Meanwhile Giustinian Giustiniani, standing proudly erect among the nobles of the Doge's suite,
searched the crowd for further homage, and wondered at the silence when the charming figure
of the baby Marconino danced in his father's arms--a very embodiment of life and glee.

It was over in a moment, and the crowd of smaller barges fell back in disorder, for the Doge
was passing through the gates of the arsenal; the galleys were returning back by San Pietro
in Castello, and that which was to follow of the glories of the day was only for the great
ones now gathering behind that charmèd gate, where the golden chair was waiting in which the
Serenissimo should make his royal progress. There was nothing more for the people until the
hour of the Ave Maria should call the stately procession forth on its homeward way.

But the brilliant memories of this morning would gladden many a less golden day--Viva San Marco!
Their voluble tongues were suddenly unloosed, and those who had been favored with near glimpses
of the heroes of the day became centres of animated discussion. Life was good in Venice! "And
thou, Nino, forget not that the Madonna hath been 'gentile' to thee! Thou shalt tell thy little
ones, when thou art old, that thou hast this day seen, with thine own eyes, the Marconino,
who hath given the great galley to the Republic!"

The banquet was over, and there was a stir among the Signoria when the infant Giustinian was
called for that he might receive the thanks of the Republic for his princely gift; and a murmur
of admiration circled from lip to lip as the blooming child was brought into the banquet hall.
All eyes were now turned upon the Lady Marina, who had hitherto remained surrounded by her
household and inconspicuous among the group of noble Venetian ladies who gave distinction to
this festa.

It was Marcantonio who, with a tenderness that was pathetic and a touch that was a caress,
led her down from her place and folded the little one's hand in hers. He would have led her
to the throne; but a gesture that was scarcely more than a glance conveyed a command he dared
not disobey.

They looked to see a flush of pride on her beautiful face as, in answer to the Doge's summons,
she came slowly forward, with the tiny hand of the boy clasped in hers--his unsteady, childish
footsteps echoing unevenly on the marble pavement between her measured movements. But she walked
as in a dream, as if she were no longer one of this bright company, yet strangely beautiful
to see, with a face like some noble spirit,--pale and grieving,--and in her eyes a great trouble
that was full of dignity and love. Over the dark velvet of her robe the bountiful, white waves
of her hair streamed like a bridal veil, wreathing her brows and her young, pathetic face with
silken rings of drifted snow.

But before she had reached the dais prepared for the Signoria at the end of the great hall
she paused, as if unable to proceed further, swaying slightly and throwing out her hands to
steady herself; a sudden change swept over her face, and for a moment it seemed that she would
fall; the child, losing hold of her hand, clung sobbing to her skirts, hiding his pretty head.

Her husband sprang to her aid, tenderly supporting her, but as instantly she seemed to recover
her strength, smiling upon him graciously, while she gently disengaged herself from his hold,
leaving the little one with him, and gliding rapidly forward, looked around her with unrecognizing
eyes.

It had pleased the whim of the Republic to make some ecclesiastical parade on this festa of
Venice which followed so closely upon the prosaic closing scene of the quarrel with Rome, wherein
no churchly pomp had been permitted; and as Marina's bewildered gaze steadied itself upon the
noble group of the Signoria, with whom to-day, in great state, sat the Patriarch of Venice
with mitre and hierarchical robes and all the attendant group of Venetian bishops, a look of
intense relief suddenly flashed over the trouble in her eyes--as if that which she had sought
with such long suffering no longer eluded her.

"Madre Beatissima!" she cried, clasping her crucifix closely to her breast, and raising her
eyes to heaven, "I thank thee!"

The light grew upon her face.

As her whole life had been merged in this struggle which had only conquered her overwrought
heart and brain when she had felt that the Madonna had deserted her and delivered her to the
wrath of Venice, so now, in her hallucination,--since the Madonna had brought her to Rome,--her
faith and power of speech suddenly returned, and she rallied all her strength to fulfil her
mission.

In that great and sumptuous Hall, flaunting and gay with banners which chronicled the victories
and the power of the Republic--in the impregnable stronghold of the realm, under the astonished
gaze of the entire Venetian court and the brilliant throng of the households of nobles and
ambassadors who looked down from the circling galleries, expectant and awestruck under the
spell of so strange a vision--this pale, slight champion of a desperate spiritual struggle,
with no host to help her save her prayers and faith, with no standard but the cross clasped
to her breast, knelt at the feet of the Patriarch, while the sunset light through the broad
western window made a radiance where she knelt--as if Heaven at last had smiled upon her.

"Oh, Holy Father!" she implored, "have mercy upon Venice! Forgive her unfaithfulness, because
she hath meant no sin!

"The Madonna hath granted me to reach Rome at last, because she hath laid her command upon
me in a vision and it could not fail. But all those, my loved ones, have I lost by the weary
way; and save for her mercy I could not have reached thee.

