Now Billy began to distinguish the figures in the room. There was a tall Jew with a black beard
and flaming brown eyes; he was smiling quite sweetly. Children in their shirts crowded into
the half-open door, and very large eyes, dark as balls of onyx, looked fixedly over at Billy
from under tangled black hair. Behind the counter sat a Jewess, the false wig of red-brown
hair pulled a little too far down on her forehead; her yellow, regular face and elongated brown
eyes expressed a rigid, proud patience. Beside Boris stood a gentleman in riding-dress, wearing
spurs on his boots; his fine, sharp-cut face was laughing, showing very white teeth under a
small moustache, which sat on his upper lip like two inky black commas.

"My friend Ladislas Worsky," said Boris introducing him, "that is a friend for you! He rode
over here in all this weather only to see us and warn us against some bridge or other."

Again Ladislas showed his white teeth. "Oh," said he, "that is the merit of my old saddle-mare:
she finds the way in all weathers and the blackest darkness, perhaps because she only has one
eye. But, friend Wolf, on with the samovar and whatever else you have. Let your 'youthful blessings'
withdraw, and make things a little cosy here; and Mother Wolf, assume a more amiable expression.
Boris, old fellow, no dejection! Let us sit down to our souper."

And he seated himself at the table, bent over toward Billy, looked at her with his shining
eyes attentively and a trifle impudently, and began to converse, cheerful and polite, as if
he were sitting in a salon.

"Souper, oh well, what goes by that name; the delicacies of our friend Wolf we have no use
for. Eggs at most: they are not penetrated by the Old Testament. And so I permitted myself
to coax a cold chicken in secret from our old housekeeper at home and bring it with me."

He unwrapped the chicken from a paper, laid it on the plate, and began to carve it, very neatly
and correctly; a trifle too dainty and then again too flourishing were the motions of the white
hands with the many sparkling rings. He spoke the while without ceasing of the weather, of
the road, of the Jew Wolf, and Billy answered as if he were a young gentleman who was making
his first visit and whom she had to receive.

"This piece, Countess, if you please," he said, laying a chicken-wing on Billy's plate; "this
is a Spanish fowl: my mother is interested in special breeds. But Boris, you are not saying
anything, tu n'es pas en train, mon vieux, you are wrong, brother. You have every reason to
be of good cheer, a tremendous lot of reason," and he bowed slightly toward Billy, "but we'll
manage that all right. Wolf, come here with some of your sinful champagne. You know, our friend
Wolf always has champagne on tap, and uses it to bring happiness by secret routes to the barbarians
beyond the border."

Billy could not eat; the blue-and-white plates, the knives and forks, the tablecloth, were
all repugnant to her. Yonder behind the counter the Jewess was still sitting, her yellow, regular
face unmoved; the almond eyes looked at Billy indifferently, proudly, and patiently, seeming
to say, "I endure you because I must." These eyes tortured Billy, she felt as if she had never
been so looked at. She forced herself to look away from those eyes, and to listen to Ladislas
Worsky, who continued his conversation with ardor. Now he was speaking of literature:

"Bourget, oh yes, of course very fine, but he tries to analyze the female heart, like sticking
butterflies on pins, but that is just the one thing in this world that cannot be analyzed.
You do not know Bourget, Countess? Ah yes, young German ladies do not read novels, they read
nothing but Schiller. Well, your Schiller ..."

Billy was grateful to him for thus entertaining her, for the hyper-elegance of his movements,
for the white cuffs which he kept incessantly pulling out of his coat-sleeves, and for the
slender, feminine, beringed hands. All this put something familiar, something homelike into
this alien, hostile environment. Billy answered, laughed a little, endeavored to act as if
she were sitting on the porch at Kadullen, even imitated a little the lady-of-the-world manners
of her sister Lisa. The champagne was brought.

"There, a different expression, if you please, brother," cried Ladislas to Boris, pouring out
the wine. "But he is always that way," turning to Billy, "je connais mon Boris. If something
alters his program, his good humor is gone: he always used to spoil half of every Sunday for
us with his bad humor, only because the next day was Monday. Well, that couldn't be helped.
In our senior year we had a comrade named Andreijsky, you remember, Boris, a mad, merry fellow.
All of a sudden he shoots himself. Why! There was talk of sickness and such things. No, I know
he shot himself because the vacation was over, simply because the vacation was over, for he
hated school like sin. Boris is just like that too."

"I beg your pardon," remarked Boris.

"There, there," said Ladislas, "don't be vexed, brother, you have no cause for it. Tomorrow
morning the bridge will be fixed again, and here you are in safety, in the most charming society,
the happiest of men: so let us clink glasses, to your health, Countess! to the fulfilment of
all wishes!"

They clinked glasses. Boris smiled faintly, and that stimulated Ladislas. "That's right, old
boy. You see, Countess, I am such a harmless fellow that when I see somebody else happy it
is like an intoxication to me. I never experience anything, but I feel as if this were my adventure,
as if you and I, well, all one--" He sprang up from his chair, seized his glass, and began to sing:

               Champagne, when thou dost
               Set our blood whirling, etc.

He sang in a pleasant baritone and with theatrical flourishes. The Jew cried "bravo" and clapped
softly. The swarm of Jewish children again appeared in the doorway, and looked into the room
out of large, piercing eyes. Boris and Billy listened smiling, and only the face of the Jewess
remained impassive, looking with weary scorn at the three yonder by the table.

The light-hearted strains of Mozart's melody filled the room as it were with something splendid
and precious. Boris rocked lightly on his chair, beat time on the table with his fingers, and
when Ladislas had finished he nodded and said, "Yes, yes, brother, that was the right choice."

"Don't you say so?" cried Ladislas. He was so overjoyed at the effect of his song that he embraced
Boris and kissed him on both cheeks. Then he again sat down at the table and filled the glasses.
"Permit me, Countess," he said, "to kiss your hand: I am so happy to be permitted to share
this happiness here."

Boris laughed a little compassionately. "That was always your forte, my good Ladislas. Sharing.
Do you remember how you were forbidden wine for a time as a student, and still were always
drunk on your soda-water sooner than we on our wine, out of sheer sympathy? You were born to
be happy by proxy."

"Bravo," cried Ladislas, "un mot charmant. You are beginning to be witty again, thank heaven,
and you have every reason to,--any one that stands like you on the high end of the see-saw,
nor stands alone--quite the contrary."

Boris grew serious again. "All very well, but perhaps we must talk business a little, after all."

But Ladislas was outraged. "Mercy, brother! Why should we talk business! Why should we bore
the Countess that way? And what is to be said?--everything is arranged, and everything will
go smoothly; no, I know something better, we'll have a little game, here are some cards, I
brought them with me. You play, Countess, do you not? Any game at all."

No, Billy played no games, but she would look on; she begged the gentlemen to play. She leaned
back against the sofa, the over-heated air and the wine making her head heavy, making her sleepy
and quiet; Ladislas' "everything will go smoothly" rang agreeably in her ears. Of course, if
only she could sleep now.

"Then a bit of écarté," said Ladislas, shuffling the cards. "You see, Countess, I am very fond
of cards. Why? Because card-games are symbolic. Cut, Boris, please."

Billy could not help it, she put her hand to her mouth and yawned.

"You are weary, child," said Boris, "lie down a while."

"To be sure," cried Ladislas, "everything has been provided for." He jumped up and opened the
door to a side room: "At your pleasure. But first, Countess, permit me to take leave of you:
I shall ride away again at once, for I must be at home early, so that my mother shall find
no traces of my nocturnal adventure." He kissed Billy's hand: "I thank you, Countess, for the
happiness of these hours." There was so much feeling in his words that Billy was almost touched.

In the side room a candle was burning dimly on a commode. White and gilt china vases stood
there full of paper roses, and on the wall hung a Jewish kissing-tablet. But most of the space
in the room was taken up by two enormous beds, on which mountains of feather-beds towered high
in red cotton cases.

"Yes, lie down," said Boris, brushing his hand across Billy's hair, "Oh Billy, if you would
feel as I do."

"Why do you say that I don't," answered Billy a trifle vexed, "that is unkind."

"No, no, I am not unkind," said Boris, "sleep now, I must discuss a number of things with Ladislas."

Billy lay down on the bed and Boris went out. She heard the two young men talking outside;
at first they seemed to be playing cards, then they whispered eagerly in the Polish language,
rapidly and with many hissing sounds. Billy closed her eyes and lay there motionless, wishing
to sleep, but it seemed to her as if something stood beside her, something threatening that
was trying to steal up on her, and it seemed as if she must wake, as if she must be on her
guard. Again she opened her eyes: the candle-flame was lightly stirred by a draught, somewhere
in the house a child was whimpering,--a soft, unspeakably mournful sound,--and round about
her lay the red feather-beds with their disagreeable voluptuous swellings, exhaling a sweetish
odor of dust. They cast great shadows on the wall, and the round soft shapes quivered gently.
Billy shook in boundless disgust: why was she here, what had she to do here? Ah yes, she loved
Boris, that was it. Well, how had that been?--could she not feel it again, that hot sensation
of compassion and longing which changed everything in her, gave her courage for all possibilities,
and made the utterly impossible a matter of course. Even for that she was too tired now. She
wanted to sleep now--somewhere where it would be quiet and secure and clean. She closed her
eyes again, so as not to see this room, and tried to think of home, but these thoughts also
gave her no rest, but pained her. So she wished to think of something quite peaceful, something
that could make no reproaches: of the furniture in the sun-parlor, standing in the darkness
under their white cotton covers, or of the great bouquets of flowers which were withering there
in the vases, and showering their petals on the table with a very soft rustle. Yes, she would
think of those, only of those things.

Yet she must have slept a little after all, for as she now started up it seemed to her as if
she had been away somewhere where she was quite safe and where she heard familiar voices, and
now she was again falling abruptly into this alien dream. It was still here, this room with
the stuffy air, the walls with the gently quivering shadows, and the soft red cushions sat
round about her waiting, as if they were still present and must be continued in her dreams.
And then some one else stood there before the bed, quite motionless. It was Boris, but he too
strangely alien and uncanny. The flickering light of the candle sent shadows driving across
his face, and it seemed as if it were being distorted and only the dark specks of eyes were
unswervingly fixed on her. Weary and discouraged Billy leaned back on the pillows and closed
her eyes.

"What has happened," she said quite softly.

"Nothing has happened," answered Boris similarly.

"Is he gone?" queried Billy further.

"Yes, Ladislas is gone."

"Why do you stand there so?"

When Boris did not answer, Billy repeated the question in a whimpering, wailing tone. Then
she heard him sink down beside the bed. He flung his arms about her, she felt his face lying
cold and heavy on her breast, and felt a strange quiver shake his body, as if he were weeping.

"Didn't you say everything would be all right?" said Billy, and again her voice sounded tearful
and vexed. "Why don't you speak? I don't know anything, I thought I must be with you, and that
is why I went with you. Didn't you say everything would be all right?"

Boris clung more tightly to Billy's arm and pulled himself up; the upper part of his body rested
on her, his face quite close to hers, and now he kissed her with dry hungry lips.

"Yes," he whispered, "everything will be well if you but wish it so. But I am so terribly afraid
of one thing ..."

"You are afraid too," replied Billy dully, "well, then--"

"No, listen," continued Boris, and his whispers became strangely hot and passionate, "if you
but will. I am afraid of tomorrow, when it grows gray and bright and we must do something and
must be burdened with care, and people will come and everything will be so ugly, the others
and we, and our love,--O Billy, I have never been able to endure the first morning after such
a happiness--"

"Why, we can't help the morning's coming," said Billy, still in her vexed tone.

"Oh yes, we can," said Boris breathless with emotion, and his hands closed around Billy's shoulders
so tightly that it hurt her. "We are together, aren't we?--and we can be so happy, so happy,
that we shall not wish to see another morning. That we can do. You will see. Come, you and
I, and then nothing but dying will be endurable." He stammered this, bent down quite close
to her, his face pale and ominous, and his hands pulling feverishly at Billy's dress.

"Why, how can we die?" responded Billy wearily.

"How--is all one," answered Boris impatiently, "you will see, we cannot go on living then."

Billy opened her eyes and looked at Boris keenly and anxiously. "Have you that terrible little
revolver that you showed me in the garden at home, and that you said was your friend?" she asked.

"Yes, yes, but why speak of it," replied Boris impatiently, "we are thinking only of ourselves
now, of our happiness. Will you, tell me! We are together, each beside the other, and there
is nothing here but us, and we had rather die than let anything else come near us."

Billy raised herself a trifle, and pushed Boris's hands, which were ardently passing over her
body, away from her like something irksome. Her eyes grew wide and bright with fear, but her
lips quivered as in a mocking and slightly contemptuous smile: "Be happy--here among these
ugly red cushions. Oh, please leave me now. You--you are like the rest of the things here,
I am afraid of you too!"

Boris released Billy and raised himself up. Now he knelt beside the bed, dropped his arms limply,
and gnawed at his under lip. His face wore an expression of grieved disappointment. Billy again
leaned back on the pillows, turned her face to the wall, and closed her eyes. Motionless she
lay there like a frightened child and listened intently for the slightest sound.

Boris was silent for a time, but once he said, "Why Billy," and this was once more the voice
she knew; something in it breathed upon her like the odorous exhalation of the garden at home,
and the Boris she knew and the Billy she knew, and their love--all this was present again for
a moment. She felt like turning around, but she only closed her eyes the tighter, knowing that
if she opened them everything would be gone in spite of herself. She heard herself say, with
a sullen, superior air, "Die?--no, certainly not. If that is all you can think of!"

Boris was silent again, and Billy waited in anxious suspense. Then she heard him get up, take
a few steps, murmuring to himself, "Well, that's another thing, nothing to be done," and then
walked slowly and hesitatingly from the room. She could hear that he merely pulled the door
to, and that he walked up and down in the adjoining room, stood still, poured something into
a glass, and then walked up and down again. She listened attentively to the soft, restless
creaking of those steps, listening with that agonizing wakefulness with which we follow something
that threatens us, that is about to attack us. For this sound grew strangely expressive. Billy
thought she could hear in it quick, angry words, a voice that discontentedly muttered abusive
epithets to itself. Then when the rhythm of this voice changed, Billy held her breath with
agitation. "Now he is walking on tiptoe," she thought, "now he is approaching the door." Boris
cautiously reentered the room and stood still at the foot of the bed. She heard distinctly
the faint clink of the charm on his watch-chain, then came utter stillness. Billy did not budge,
but waited with the resignation we feel in dreams, upon which we unconsciously base the hope
that waking will come and free us from the events of the dream.

Boris began to speak in a hollow, weary voice: "Of course you are not asleep. You are trying
to deceive me. Do not let me disturb you, I pray! I never ask a second time. Either people
understand me or they do not. You do not understand me: very well, very well, it is always
the same story. You women never do understand." He paused and it was strange enough to see
how the girlish face with the closed eyes and the tightly clenched lips flushed and paled.
"All that surprises me," continued Boris, "is that you came here at all. To be proper, we do
not need to come here. Yes, but that is always the way: we think that together we stand on
a very high plane, high above everything small and foolish; we think that the great moment
is coming now, for which we have been waiting a lifetime; and then it comes to naught again,
one is alone after all, and you, you have stayed down below there in the world of--of--Madame
Bonnechose."

He was silent again, and Billy thought: "Was he laughing then?" There had been something in
his voice that sounded like that. She pressed her eyelids more tightly together; not for the
world would she have seen that sad and proud smile of which she had always been afraid, even
at moments when she loved Boris most ardently. Boris took a few steps, then stood still again:
"Only load myself with responsibility, and have nothing for it?--no thanks! Out of what could
have been very beautiful and great you make something ugly and silly. That's a game I won't
play. I don't understand being ridiculous, we Poles have no talent for that." Again he paced
awhile, again he waited; yes, he was waiting, Billy knew he was, but not for a moment did the
thought come to her that she might open her eyes, speak to him, or call him back: she had but
one idea, to lie quite still and not move, then perhaps this too would pass. Boris was now
at the door; she heard the soft creaking of the rusty hinges, and on the threshold he stopped
to say in a voice that sounded strangely alien and altered, the voice of a man who is all alone
somewhere or other, and who is speaking to himself sadly and hopelessly, "No, not that, I am
so tired of having nothing but misunderstandings to live for." He went out and pulled the door
to again, and Billy heard him stride to and fro in the adjoining room, and then fling himself
on the old cracking sofa.

The thunderstorm was over, and a fine rain trickled down quietly and evenly, beating quite
gently on the window-panes. Billy still lay there very quietly. Why should she move? Why should
she open her eyes? Round about her was nothing that belonged to her, nothing that partook of
her, nothing that she felt to be Life. A feeling of aloneness, never before experienced, took
physical hold upon her, something that made her ill, that chilled her.

Boris had spoken in his strangely altered voice of being happy and dying. These words she had
heard once before, at home among the currant bushes, but there it had had a different sound,
there it had sounded sad and sultry and sweet; she had understood it there, and it seemed to
her to be something possible and easy, if Boris wished it. But to die--here, that was incomprehensible
and repulsive like everything else here: for that was just the result of this terribly puzzling
feeling of loneliness which was icily creeping over her. She must lie here, and life was infinitely
far away; she saw it like a spot quite yellow with sunshine, quite gay with autumn flowers,
and familiar figures were passing through this sunshine: before the wash-house knelt the washwoman
with her white apron, at the bed of carnations knelt the gardener with his yellow straw hat,
and under the pear-tree stood her father, drawing the scent of the early pears and the plums
into his long white nose.

Billy saw this, felt it, smelt it, and yet all of it was living without her: or rather, she
herself was there, and she could see herself, also her love was there, Boris, and everything,
but she could not cross over to join herself there. Billy raised herself, her eyes wide open,
her mouth very red against the white face, and about her lips the resolute, obstinate lines
which they were wont to assume when Billy felt that she must have something for which she longed.

She climbed softly out of the bed, crept to the unclosed door and peeped through the crack.
Boris was lying asleep on the sofa. His tangled hair hung down on his forehead, and his pale
face wore the grief-stricken and at the same time helpless expression with which sound sleep
overspreads a face. On the table stood the champagne bottle and a half-emptied glass. The candle
had burned very low, and the only sound in the room was a faint moaning that issued from Boris's
half-open mouth, wailing and then changing to short, high-pitched, and as it were mocking sounds.
Billy cautiously pulled the door shut. Then she bustled about, took her cloak and hat, went
to the window, and opened it. The draught put out the candle; outside it still seemed dark,
the rain was whispering in the gloom, the great pines were rustling, a deep, loud rustle, a
glorious untrammeled breath from a breast of infinite capacity, and Billy too had to breathe,
quite deeply, before she swung herself upon the window-sill and jumped out.

The wind drove the rain into her face and took her breath. One moment she stood there, bending
forward slightly, like one who stands in the ocean waiting for a wave to break over him. Then
she ran into the darkness with firm, obstinate steps. On the wet road lay a dull, dead light.
Billy followed it. Water leaped up against her legs with a splash when she stepped into the
puddles, and from her hat tiny cold rivulets trickled down inside the collar of her cloak.
Everything was against her, everything that whispered, gurgled, snickered, and murmured round
about her, was hostile. It was frightful, and she was frightened, but she had expected nothing
else and she simply had to advance. And in doing so she found in herself something that she
had never known there before, she found in herself the agitating feeling of angry watchfulness
and as it were sullen curiosity, which are of the essence of courage. Thinking was impossible,
she merely had to be on her guard. So she rushed on. The road now grew dark. The great pines
murmured about her quite near at hand, and at times a wet branch struck at her or tried to
catch her, whereupon she would thrust it from her fiercely and pugnaciously. A vast, dreamy
resignation toward the lurking Unknown made her almost apathetic. At the same time it was queer
enough that through all this time an image stood before her, trying to be felt and seen. She
saw herself clearly as if she were walking by her own side: the slender figure in the brown
rain-coat, the wet hat on her head, bending forward slightly and running along the unfamiliar
black roads as resistlessly and unconsciously as a bullet hurled by a powerful hand, forward
over the roots that treacherously placed themselves in her way, under the branches that tried
to hold her fast and drenched her with water, past great dusky birds that whirred across the
road, sending terrifying, wailing notes into the night. But that had to be, life outside the
garden-gates of Kadullen was like that, and only thus could you fight your way back to those
garden-gates. And it seemed to Billy as if she could feel that here in the gloomy world about
her many such solitary figures were running down black roads, quickly, quickly. She felt so
strongly the presence of these nocturnal comrades that they were uncanny and yet a trifle consoling
to her. The road grew steadily clearer and more shiny, trees and bushes now stood out distinctly
in a gray light, night-ravens flapped their wings: day was coming. But Billy did not look up.
Though it was frightful to dream this dream, yet she was afraid to wake out of it. She knew
that if she did, this fever of courage and of thoughtless resignation would forsake her, and
that she would then have no strength left. Her head bowed low over the road, she rushed on;
now she was in the midst of a white mist, then again she would be walking on moss like red
and green velvet. It had grown remarkably still about her; rain and wind must have ceased.
Suddenly she was walking all bathed in a ruddy light. She felt this light like something that
causes pain, and she narrowed her eyes and bowed her head lower. Gradually the light became
golden, there was a flaming radiance and flicker everywhere, and a humming began in the air,
and a rustling in the moss. Billy felt how a busy life had awakened about her, and she walked
faster: it was like a race with this Day, that was advancing so calmly and wakefully in all
his glory.

How long Billy had walked this way she did not know, but it seemed an interminable time. The
sun was already high in a pure blue sky and beat down pitilessly. Billy felt as if she must
be carrying a very warm burden along with her, and moreover her feet grew so heavy, moving
slowly and mechanically like things that did not belong to her; they were indifferent to her
like everything else about her, and for her own feeling she was some strange thing that was
being laboriously driven forward through the sunshine. Then suddenly, in a small forest clearing,
she sank down on a mossy knoll in the glaring sun. It was delicious to stretch out her legs,
to lay her back against the warm huckleberry bushes. There could be nothing nicer in life.
Around the clearing stood young firs and pines, as shiny as metal, and so motionless that the
drops which still hung here and there on their needles seemed frozen. Everything was motionless
under this yellow light, the grass-blades, the moss-blossoms, and the little blue butterflies,
and a bumble-bee crawled into the bell of a bennet and hung there as if enchanted. In the thicket
a fox drew near, his head lowered to sniff the ground, and suddenly he too stood still without
stirring a muscle and stared into space, his eyes transparent as green glass, spell-bound by
the overpowering silence of the hour.

Billy sat there, and on her too was the burden of this motionlessness which was so soothing,
this delicious intoxication of light, of silence, and of all the hot odors which the leaves,
the pine-needles, and the great sun-basking mushrooms exhaled. She too stared into space, feeling
how her eyes also grew as glassy bright as the eyes of yonder fox, and how everything in her
merely existed to drink in the sunlit stillness. Now the cry of the jay rang out excitedly,
as if he would waken some one whether or no. The fox was gone, and Billy also started up; then
she leaned back, lifted her arms, stretched herself, and screwed up her face as if to cry.
Something very beautiful was over. Painfully she got up: what was the use, she must go on in
any case.

A wide forest road, covered with short grass, led her through a young fir-nursery, and when
the road took a turn, a bit of heath lay before Billy, in the midst of which stood some cottages,
standing there with their golden-brown timbers and silver-gray roofs like tiny, gleaming caskets
on the red-blooming heath. Over there a cow was lowing in long-drawn, sleepy tones; a cock
crowed; smoke rose straight from the chimney into the sky. Billy stopped short; all this moved
her so powerfully, she did not know why; her eyes grew moist, and yet she could not but smile.
She went straight toward the house; a low lattice fence inclosed a garden which Billy entered
through the half open gate. Long beds of vegetables, gooseberry bushes. Here and there blue
flowering chicory and dark red poppies laid flaming spots of color on the uniform brightness
of the midday light. Beehives stood around everywhere. Before one of these a man was kneeling,
busied with the bees. Billy went up to him; doubtless he heard the gravel crunch under her
feet, and he raised his head: a small old face, looking as if it had been compressed in an
upward direction, gazed at Billy calmly out of dull, very light blue eyes.

"Good morning," said Billy.

"Good morning," answered the man, holding his hands out cautiously before him, for they were
thickly covered with bees as with golden-yellow velvet gloves. As Billy said nothing, he turned
to his hive again.

"Am I far from Kadullen?" Billy began again.

"Three hours' walk," answered the man without looking up.

Again both were silent. The strong scent of the potherbs in the garden-beds, the sourish smell
of the honey, the faint buzzing of the bees, all this enveloped Billy like boundless, delicious
indolence. "To rest here," thought she.

"May I sit here?" she asked, pointing to a wheelbarrow which lay upturned on the gravel path.
The old man merely nodded, as he cautiously stripped the bees from his hands, and Billy sat
down, stretched out her feet, let her arms hang heavily, and sighed deeply: this was all she
needed. Oh, it wasn't so hard to live, after all.

"You're the young lady at Kadullen?" the old man finally said again, "I often go there with
honey. S'pose you're wet, hey?"

"Yes."

"S'pose you've been out in the rain during the night, and now I s'pose you want to go home?"

Yes, Billy wanted to go home. The old man took off his straw hat and thoughtfully rubbed his
hand over his bald, shiny pate. "We could hitch up," he said. Then he turned toward the other
side and cried, "Lina!" Over there before the little stable a red cow was standing, and in
front of her squatted a girl in a blue linen dress, milking her. The girl got up slowly and
a little laboriously, stood there a moment, screwed up her face at the sunlight, looked crossly
over at Billy, and wiped her big red hands on her white apron.

"Come on," said the old man.

So Lina came slowly along the vegetable beds; on the big, stout body perched a small head,
with a puffy-cheeked, very heated childish face under a heavy mass of oily brown hair. She
still kept her hands on her apron, as if wishing to conceal the fact that she was pregnant.
She stopped short before Billy and asked ill-humoredly, "What is it, father?"

"Take the young lady in with you," said the father, "put some dry clothes on her, and give
her something to eat; afterward, young lady, we'll drive on."

Lina turned and strode toward the house.

Billy got up to follow her, when the old man looked slyly at the two with a sidelong glance,
pointed at his daughter with his thumb and said, "She's lost her good name too." Lina looked
back at Billy, passed the back of her hand across her eyes, and smiled faintly.

The living room into which Billy was conducted must have been freshly calcimined, for it seemed
so surprisingly, glaringly white. The sunshine was so strangely heavy and honey-yellow as it
rested on the red and white chintz covers of the furniture and the pine boards of the floor.
Then, too, there was an eager, loud medley of bird-voices trying to outsing each other, for
all over the ceiling and at the window hung canaries in cages; there were perhaps ten or twelve,
and the little creatures, excited by the light, trilled as if they were intoxicated by their
own singing.

"Oh, the birds," said Billy surprised.

"Them!" said Lina peevishly, "they yelp all daylong."

Billy had to sit down on the sofa, and Lina began to undress her. She drew off her shoes, then
her stockings. "The little feet," she murmured, "I can hold one of 'em in my hand like a little
bird." She was quite absorbed in her task, and talked to herself like a child playing quietly
in a corner with its doll. "The lovely underwear, and wet through and through, and we have
a skin like silk, there, there, and now comes the shirt, brand new it is, I made it for my
wedding."

"For your wedding!" asked Billy, who obeyed mechanically the big, careful hands.

"The wedding, well, that's all up now anyhow," said Lina, bustling back and forth between her
chests and Billy. "There, this dress here, it's a bit tight for me, for the young lady it'll
be all right. Nope, it's too big after all, we'll have to pin it together," and the two girls
began to laugh at the loose dress, quite loudly, quite helplessly. Lina sat down, slapped her
knees, and held her sides. The canaries tried to outsing the laughter of the girls. Now Billy
was ready. She asked for a mirror, surveyed herself attentively, then put away the mirror satisfied
and said, "Very good, your clothes are as soothing as smelling-salts."

Lina went out to prepare something to eat, and Billy leaned back on the sofa and closed her
eyes. Yes, she really felt as if she had put away with her clothes the cares and unrest of
the former Billy. With the dotted blue and white linen dress, with the big collar and the coarse
shirt that scratched her skin, it seemed as if she had imbibed something of the carefree, almost
shameless peacefulness with which Lina had lazily and indolently moved her body, distorted
by motherhood, along the vegetable beds of the garden.

Now Lina brought milk, a shiny, brown loaf, and a great deal of honey. Billy began to eat;
at first with ravenous hunger, then slowly with enjoyment, almost with devotion: she could
not remember ever having had anything taste so good to her.

When she was satisfied, she rested her arms heavily on the table. In these unwonted clothes
she had an impulse to go through motions which were otherwise never characteristic of her,
which perhaps were Lina's. Her cheeks were flushed again, her eyes shining, and impatience
for life warmed her blood. Lina sat facing her, her hands laid flat on her knees, and looked
at her steadily and patiently out of her small blue eyes.

"I think," remarked Billy, "we will go and see the cow, the chickens, and the bees now."

That was it: in this comical blue dress she felt like going about the farm outside; yes, she
was convinced that she would be able to walk along between the vegetable beds quite as lazily
and cheerfully as Lina. But when she stood up she felt that her legs were stiff and pained her.

"Oh, no, let us stay here," she said, "and let us talk instead."

But the calm of the big, heated girl facing her made her impatient. Could one not poke up this
calm, as the child Billy had poked up the small, quiet ant-hills, so that they immediately
teemed with excited life. "Are you not afraid?" asked Billy suddenly.

"Afraid?" answered Lina, "why? Oh, I see, you mean about that; naw, what is there to be afraid of?"

"But some die of it," Billy went on probing.

Lina drew the back of her hand across her eyes and smiled faintly. "Yes, some die." The two
girls were silent for a time, listening to the clamor of the canaries. Then Lina began to ask
in her deep, somewhat singing voice, "And yours is gone too?"

Billy blushed. "Yes, gone," she murmured uncertainly.

Lina sighed. "Yes," she said, "men are a cross, they always go away. That's what happens to
all of us."

Billy was silent, but it was like security and peace to her, this "us" which placed her in
the ranks of the girls who with calmness and strength take the burden of life upon them.

The rumble of a wagon was heard outside. Immediately thereafter the old man appeared in the
door with a whip in his hand, saying, "We can start now, young lady." Billy had to put on a
very large yellow straw hat, and then they drove away.

The little wagon rattled violently, the heavy white horse trotted along imperturbably, patiently
shaking off the gadflies that circled about him. The little bells fastened to his harness tinkled
a sleepily monotonous tune. For a time the wagon continued to roll through the fir nursery
as between quiet blue walls, then the forest came to an end, and the high road was before them
and broad fields. Over all of it lay a hot, pale yellow dust-film. The countryside seemed to
Billy so awesomely bare. "We see no people," she said.

The old man began to laugh softly and long. "'Cause it's Sunday. Ah yes, when we go walking
by night we don't know what day it is any more, but that's the way with girls; Lina's got that
far too."

"Can't he marry her?" asked Billy timidly.

The old man struck angrily at his white horse. "Marry? Marry who? Where is the man to marry?
Where is our handsome machinist at the saw-mill? 'Cause he's got yellow cat's-eyes, they all
run after him. Anna at the watermill has come to it too now. Ye-ep, you can't stop it; soon
as spring comes, the young hussies are out o' nights, as restless as the bees before a thunderstorm,
and you can beat 'em, you can tie 'em, but in a jiffy--off they put. Now at this time o' year
it don't happen so often," added the old man with a sidelong glance at Billy.

She smiled. "Yes," she thought, "in a spring night, when we grow as restless as the bees before
a thunderstorm, then maybe there is this Being-happy and this Dying, that Boris was talking
about, but there"--she shrank and shuddered: she did not even wish to think of it, she still
had a long ride before her, and later she would think it all over. Good, good, but no thinking
now, just listen to the sleepy tinkle of the little bells.

Gradually however the region became more familiar, here and there stood a farmer in Sunday
coat among his fields, whose face Billy recalled, and finally Kadullen rose in the distance
between the great trees of the park; a cool green spot in the sun-yellow land.

Billy drew herself up; she suddenly became quite wakeful; it was almost torturing, how abruptly
all her dream world fell away from her and the former Billy was present once more with the
responsibility for what she had done, with the fear and shame before all those people yonder.
She saw distinctly Marion's eyes, Aunt Betty's helpless little face, and her father's severe
white nose. They had probably found the slip of paper she had left behind. She tried to think
what was on it. "I am with him." Lord, how stupid that sounded! And now they were coming closer
and closer to the house. If only she could get to her room unnoticed by way of the little staircase:
no one would recognize her in Lina's clothes, and once upstairs in her room she would lock
the door and let nobody in and sleep--sleep. Perhaps that would take some burden from her;
perhaps when she then awoke everything would be different, everything better.

"Oh please," she said, "we'll stop at the little gate in the park wall over there."

The old man nodded indifferently, turned into the side road, and stopped before the small gate
in the park wall. When Billy had got out, she stood still a moment and said hesitantly: "I
suppose I must pay."

"'s all right," answered the old man with a bad grace, "I'm going to deliver some honey in
the courtyard anyway."

"But not right away," pleaded Billy.

"I know, I know the game," murmured the old man, "needn't tell me."

Billy disappeared behind the gate. Cautiously she hurried up the little paths: everything was
silent and unpeopled, and the house stood there as if asleep, with lowered blinds. Cautiously
Billy approached the back stairs. From the windows of the servants' quarters resounded the
long-drawn notes of a hymn: the servants were having their Sunday worship. Before the washhouse
stood the washwoman, putting her hand to her eyes and looking out into the sunshine. Where
had Billy just seen that? Oh yes, over yonder in her dream. Now she softly ran up the stairs,
now she was in her room. Here too everything had waited for her unchanged, and the familiar
scent of the room, the familiar light, all moved her so deeply that tears streamed down her
face without effort or pain. She locked the door, hastily pulled off her clothes, and crept
into her bed. Tears and sleep she craved, nothing else. Then when she awoke, simply to belong
again to all this that had waited here for her so unchanged, so quietly and proudly.

Strange enough was the Sunday that had broken upon Kadullen. The news of Billy's return home
spread quickly. The washwoman had told the butler, the butler reported it to Countess Betty,
and then the old beekeeper came into the servants' room and told his story. He was taken to
the Count and there cross-examined; but to no avail, for the affair remained as incompréhensible
as before. Why had she gone away? What had happened? Marion was sent up to Billy's room, but
reported that Billy would admit no one and wished to sleep. Full of trouble Countess Betty
and Madame Bonnechose sat on the garden-steps beside Lisa, who had stretched herself out on
a reclining chair, for she felt very weak from all these excitements. The two old ladies were
silent: what should they say?--they no longer understood la chère jeunesse. Only Madame Bonnechose
murmured from time to time, "C'est incomprehensible." Countess Betty nodded, but Lisa would
smile dreamily and say, "Understand?--Oh, I can understand it all."

"Mais chère little Lisa, dites-nous donc, ce que vous savez," urged Madame Bonnechose.

Lisa shook her head. "There are things which we understand and yet for which there are no words.
When I stood on the plain of Marathon with Katakasianopulos that time, it seemed to me as if
I distinctly understood all the pain that was to come upon us, but express it--that I could
not have done."

"Ah, dear child," said Countess Betty dejectedly, "that will not help us now."

Marion came and reported once more that in Billy's room everything was quite still.

"Oh dear, oh dear," sighed Countess Betty; she could not calmly sit still, so she rose and
went over to see her brother.

Count Hamilcar lay in his room on the sofa; he was keeping his eyes shut, his face was strangely
sallow, and the features seemed sharper and more pointed than usual. When his sister came to
a stop before him, he opened his eyes and looked at her with a glance which had the indifference
of a man who to be sure surveys us, but whose thoughts and dreams are very far from us.

"Still no certainty," said Countess Betty whimperingly. "She admits nobody, saying she wants
to sleep."

"Let her sleep," answered the count.

"Yes, but she might let us in," wailed the old lady further, "what is all this? all these affairs?
the whole house is whispering. The Professor's family will leave today and carry the story
all over the country, and you, Hamilcar, you don't say anything either."

The count raised himself slightly. "No, Betty," he said, "I say nothing, because I know nothing.
We cannot prevent others from talking, but we ought not to speak until there is need for it.
Let the child sleep, then she shall tell you everything, and then, Betty, I shall say my say
too. Will it soon be time for breakfast?"

"Oh, Hamilcar," replied Countess Betty intimidated, "you surely won't come to breakfast, you
are so unstrung."

The count laid his finger along his nose and said sharply, "I shall come, and I hope it will
be on time as usual. Also I did not hear you sing a hymn: did you not have the accustomed worship?"

"No, we were so excited, you see," the old lady excused herself, but the count was dissatisfied.

"You are wrong, Betty, have your worship as you do every Sunday; but if I may request it, no
reference to these happenings in the Bible reading or in the prayer, just ordinary devotions.
It is not our fault that something has come in here which does not belong to us, but there
is no reason why we should surrender to it: we insist on our way, and that ends it."

Wearily the count leaned back and shut his eyes; his sister looked at him with alarm. "What
ails you, Hamilcar?" she asked, "you are so pale."

The count motioned impatiently with his hand. "I shall manage," he said, "circulation and heart-beat
simply won't listen to us, and the only trouble is that they are forever meddling with our
affairs. There is an error here in the contract that we call our life. But for the rest, it
is old age, Betty, just that, and that is after all comprehensible."

Countess Betty softly left the room, and outside she said to Madame Bonnechose, much troubled,
"Chère amie, my brother requires of us that we have devotions; there is nothing to be done,
so please call the chamber-maids and the butler, ô ma chère, il est terriblement philosophe."

Life at Kadullen did not surrender; there were devotions, Count Hamilcar appeared at breakfast,
pale and weary, but his conversation with the Professor did not falter. They spoke of the yellow
race, and, as if even that were not sufficiently remote, of the Bismarck Archipelago. Embarrassed
silence burdened the remaining company. Egon's and Moritz's places were vacant, for at the
news of Billy's disappearance they had ridden away and were not back yet. Lisa rejected all
food, and looked out and away over the heads of the breakfasters with her beautiful eyes. "Today
Lisa is altogether in 'Marathon,'" Bob whispered to Erika. Even Mr. Post and Miss Demme wore
a serious, even somewhat proudly repellent mien. Mr. Post had said to Miss Demme before breakfast,
"It is plain to see that this so-called aristocratic culture cannot hold its ground: there
is much that is rotten at the core after all." Whereupon Miss Demme, shaking her short curls,
had answered, "There is simply a lack of inward freedom."

After breakfast the professorial family drove away, taking a hasty and over-affectionate farewell.
Countess Betty had tears in her eyes.

"I felt," she said later, "as if Billy had died and they had just paid a visit of condolence."

Then came the afternoon hours with the steady brightness of the mid-summer day, with the quiet
flaming of the bright colors in the garden-beds, the Sunday lack of happenings, the troubled
sitting-together-and-waiting.

"Oh dear, if you only know what you were waiting for," sighed Countess Betty.

But upstairs behind the locked door lay the poor puzzle, and before the door stood Marion,
her head leaning against it, her eyes too large for the small yellow face.

Once the quiet was disturbed by the hurrying hoof-beats of a horse; a rider galloped into the
courtyard, dismounted and carried a letter in to Count Hamilcar, then rode away again, and
once more Sunday stillness rested on the house.

"Now what is this new thing," wailed Countess Betty, "Hamilcar doesn't say anything either;
every one sits like a sphinx, guarding his own secret."

And Lisa in her reclining chair said, lost in thought, "Even when they go and leave us they
have something that pleads for help, as if they were trying to tell us: help me against myself."

"Qui? monsieur Boris?" asked Madame Bonnechose.

"No," replied Lisa, "Katakasianopulos."

"Ah, ma chère, maintenant il ne s'agit pas de monsieur de Katakasianopulos," said Madame Bonnechose
with vexation.

At last after dinner, when the sun was already shining red above the rim of the forest, the
news spread, "Marion is in Billy's room."

Billy had slept very soundly. Now she was lying on her bed, her hands clasped behind her neck,
her cheeks reddened, her eyes wonderfully bright. She looked searchingly up at Marion, who
stood before her and gazed anxiously at her.

"First of all," said Billy, "don't look at me as if I had died. You have eyes that can look
at a person as if he were a spider."

--"Oh Billy, that is only because you are so wonderfully beautiful this minute."

Billy smiled a little: "Oh well, that may be so; sit down and tell your story.--So you found
the slip?"

"Yes."

"Of course you took it to Auntie and your mother?"

"Yes."

"What did they say?"

"Mama said, 'la pauvre petite, elle est perdue.'"

"Ah, she said perdue. Do go on." Marion was ready to cry. "Why, I don't know; Auntie went in
to see your father. Your cousins rode away to look for you, and Moritz said, 'If I only had
that Pole in reach of my pistol.' I made camomile tea for Auntie and Mama."

"Marion, Marion," Billy interrupted, "you're not much on story-telling."

"No," said Marion, "you know you are to do the telling."

Billy grew serious: "Oh, I see, that is what they sent you here for; very well. Pull down the
shades and sit down by the window and don't look at me." She shut her eyes and her face took
on a tortured expression. "I went away in the night, you know; I had to. And it was quite easy.
I could not let him go away alone and insulted, I should have died for pity. And then we rode,
and it rained and lightened, and finally we couldn't go any farther. We went into a little
inn: one of Boris's friends was there, and an old Jew, and a Jewess sat there without moving
and looked at me as people sometimes look at us in frightful dreams. Then we ate something
and drank champagne, Boris's friend sang and the two men played cards; but that was when it
began, everything grew different then, and quite sad, and I didn't understand any more why
I was there. I went into the adjoining room and lay down on the bed. Everything smelled of
dust and very bad perfume; there were terrible red cushions, a child cried somewhere, and everything
was horribly ugly and sad. I never thought anything could be so ugly. Boris came in. He was
quite strange too. Here among the barberries he had talked before about being happy and dying,
but there, there it sounded awful. And he was angry and went out and I pretended to sleep.
Tell me, Marion, could you love and be tragic, or be happy and die, when one of the fat green
caterpillars that we are so afraid of falls on top of you and crawls over you and you can't
pull it off you and it keeps on crawling over you? See, that is the way everything was there,
everything. When all was still and Boris was sleeping, I jumped out of the window and ran and ran."

"Don't you love him any more?" asked a timid voice from the window-niche.

Billy was silent a moment, then she cried passionately, "Marion, don't ask such questions.
Yes, probably--of course I shall love him again, here. But I will not talk about it any more,
and they are not to torment me. Go, tell them what you like, but for today I wish to be left
in peace. Auntie can come and sit beside my bed, but she mustn't ask me anything, or mustn't
talk about disagreeable things; she can tell about her youth if she likes."

Billy turned her face to the wall, and Marion stole softly out of the room.

Twilight was already falling when Countess Betty timidly entered her brother's room. Count
Hamilcar was sitting on his sofa, somewhat shrunken, and was looking out of the window. "Well,
Betty," he said without looking up.

Jules Exter

The old lady stood still before him, supporting herself by her hands on the back of a chair;
the pale face of her brother alarmed her, it looked so unapproachably angry, as if he were
looking down at something he despised there outside the window.

"Well?" he said again.

"She has told Marion about it," began Countess Betty, and she narrated in a low, faltering
voice, with something queerly helpless in it. "The poor child," she finished, "all alone in
the night, what she suffered, the wicked fellow! What do you say, Hamilcar?"

"I?" he said, turning toward his sister. His words issued now with extreme clearness, sharp
and nasal. "I say, Betty: What sort of beings are we rearing here?--why, they cannot live.
Why, we simply cannot intrust to them the thing that we call life. A housemaid who steals out
to the stable-boy and lets him seduce her knows what she is after; but what we are bringing
up is little intoxicated ghosts that tremble with longing to haunt the outside world and cannot
breathe when they get out there. That is what we are rearing, Betty."

"I do not understand you, Hamilcar," said the old lady, who had grown quite pale, "she is a
child, she does not know, she will forget, the others will forget, everything will come out
all right. God has shielded her."

A faint flush rose into the count's pale face, and a powerful agitation made him a trifle breathless:
"Our interesting gentleman has seen to it that she will not forget it, he has seen to it that
this ridiculous tragedy will cling to the girl like an ugly sickness. He has deemed it proper
to shoot himself yonder in the Jew's tavern--here."

He held out to his sister a piece of paper which he had been holding in his fist all the time,
and which he had crumpled into a little round ball. Countess Betty took this little ball; mechanically
she unfolded the paper with trembling fingers, smoothed it out, and tried to read. There were
a few lines from Ladislas Worsky announcing Boris's death. Inclosed was a little slip on which
Boris had written, "To Billy. Then I shall go alone. Boris."

Countess Betty let the paper drop on her knee and looked into space vacantly, almost blankly,
and only when the count now burst into an angry laugh did she start up in terrible affright.

"That is a departure for you, eh?" he said, and now he spoke quickly and pantingly: "These
are the people that spend their lives in standing like actors before the mirror and practising
gestures for their audience. I love--how does that become me? I am unhappy, I die--how does
that look, what will the others say to that? Death and life--a question of attire, and a pretty
girl that loves us is also simply a part of our toilet, like a gardenia that we put into our
button-hole: and we are bringing up our girls to be gardenias for such worthless fops. And
then they call it Love; with that word they are fed and made drunk. A pretty estate this love
and life and dying have reached, if they have come to be affairs for the nursery and for fops."
He broke off, for his agitation took his breath. He leaned back wearily and shut his eyes.
Countess Betty wept quietly into her handkerchief. After a pause the count began again in his
quiet, slow way, "Do not cry, Betty, I lost my temper, excuse me."

Countess Betty lifted her tear-wet face to him and said beseechingly, "But she must not find
it out today."

Count Hamilcar shrugged his shoulders--"Today or tomorrow, that belongs to her and to us once
and for all."

Countess Betty rose, dried her eyes, and said, "How pale you are, Hamilcar, you ought to go
to bed."

Again the count smiled his restrained, kind smile: "Yes, Betty, I shall go to bed. In all our
distress this expedient is always left to us."

Again Billy had slept deeply and soundly. It must have been about midnight when she awoke;
she felt rested and wakeful, and was hungry. Throughout the day she had crossly refused all
food, now she reflected that she must eat. She resolved to go down to the housekeeper, Miss
Runtze, and get something from her. Softly, so as not to waken Marion, she dressed and went
down to the lower floor to knock at the housekeeper's door. It took Miss Runtze a long time
to understand who was knocking, and when she did she was greatly alarmed. "Oh dear, Countess
Billy! what is it? another misfortune? you want something to eat? Yes, yes, that's what comes
when you won't eat anything all day."

Scolding softly to herself she preceded Billy into the pantry. There some cold chicken and
a little Madeira were found. Billy began to eat ravenously. As she took the glass and sipped
the Madeira with puckered lips, she blinked over the brim of the glass at the housekeeper,
who stood before her, the large face, heated from sleeping, closely framed by the white night-cap,
the corners of the mouth drawn down severely and disapprovingly.

"Well, Runtze, what do you say to all this?" asked Billy.

"I was very sorry for it," answered the housekeeper coldly and formally.

"Why?"

Runtze turned to the wooden frame on which the sausages hung, and began to stroke one of them
gently with her hand. "Why, it's this way," she said, "a countess must be like an almond that
I have soaked well in hot water and slip out of its skin, beautiful and white."

Billy had once more bent over her chicken-wing. "Oh, that is it," she said as she ate, "but
Bonnechose says, cette pauvre Runtze has had her own romance and her own unhappy love-affair."

The corners of the housekeeper's mouth were drawn down still lower and more tartly. "In our
station all sorts of things can happen: we love for a while and then again we don't and are
at peace. But with our mistresses it is different. If there is a hole in the cover of the old
sofa down in my room, I don't care, and some time when I have time I mend it; but the company
rooms upstairs must be spick and span, and that's what I look out for every morning."

"I believe he was a miller?" asked Billy in a businesslike tone.

"Yes, a miller."

"Fair-haired?"

"No, red-haired."

Billy, her hunger now appeased, leaned back in her chair. "Oh, red-haired, that's very pretty
sometimes, and his face powdered with flour and the red hair with it. But I am done now." She
stood up. "I thank you, Runtze, your meal was very good."

"That is the main thing," said the woman, "you are in love, and then again you are not, but
you always have to eat."

Billy went out, but she did not feel like going back up to her room, which was so full of terrifying
dreams. She walked down the corridor to the outside door which led into the garden. It was
the hour at which she had been accustomed to go about of late anyway. Even to herself she seemed
ghostly and uncanny. But the garden was delicious, homelike. A bit of a moon and very bright
stars were in the sky. The mist had advanced from the meadow into the garden. It was creeping
over the patches of turf and the beds. The flowers looked black, standing in the white mists.
A very intense joy warmed Billy's heart as she found that this familiar reality had waited
here for her and that she once more belonged to all this. She walked along the gravel paths,
she passed her hand over the dew-laden tops of the roses and dahlias, she ate some of the currants,
she stood under the barberry bushes and breathed in the moist, earthy smell that rose out of
the old box there. But as she walked thus, a more powerful agitation came over her. All these
spots spoke of Boris; she saw him and felt him again, and longing for him again made her wretched
and sick. Slowly she had returned to the house, now she stood before the quietly sleepy garden-facade,
saw Boris standing on the porch again, or coming down the garden-paths and looking into the
evening sun with his dreamy eyes, and she again heard him speaking in his solemn, singing voice
of the pain suffered for the mother-country. How could she go on living without all that? Suddenly
it struck her that a kind of noiseless unrest was going through the sleeping house. There was
light at Lisa's window, and behind the shades Lisa's shadow moved back and forth. Billy recognized
distinctly the figure in the long nightdress, her loose hair hanging down her back. "Why doesn't
she sleep," she thought, "why is she walking around?--after all it's my love-affair, not hers."
But Aunt Betty's window next door was also lit up. And there was the shadow of Aunt Betty's
big nightcap, too, and beside it another big nightcap. How the two nightcaps gently moved toward
each other, swaying and quivering. Why weren't they sleeping, all of them? Was it on her account?
And there on the other side, light there too, and behind the shades another shadow walking
restlessly to and fro. Now the shadow approached the window, the shade was raised, the window
opened, and Billy saw her father lean out: his hands tore open the shirt at his breast, and
in the scanty moonlight his face seemed quite white, only the open mouth and eyes laying black
shadows on it. So he stood there, drinking in the night air greedily and anxiously. Billy retreated
behind the box-hedge. She was shivering with fear. Good heavens, what ailed them all! Was it
not as if she had died and were now stealing about the house as a spirit, to see how all of
them were mourning for her in there. Cautiously keeping to the shadows, she walked over to
the avenue of maples. She felt impelled to look up from there at her balcony and the window
of her room. On the bench facing her window some one was sitting asleep, his head drooping
on his breast. It was Moritz. Billy stood still before him. The good lad, he had sat here and
looked up at her window; the thought gave her the feeling of a delicious, warm shelter. Moritz
grew restless, opened his eyes, and looked at her.

"Ah, you, Billy," he said, as if he had expected her.

Billy smiled at him. "Have you been sitting here, Moritz, to look up at my window?"

"Yes," answered Moritz crossly.

"That is nice," said Billy. She sat down on the bench beside him and leaned slightly against
his arm. "Do you still love me?"

"Yes," said Moritz in the same cross tone, "but why should that matter to you?"

"Oh," said Billy plaintively, "it is very important, for I feel as if I had died, and when
a person is very much loved, then ... then I think he comes to life again."

Moritz was silent a moment, and when he began to speak a great agitation made his voice hesitant
and awkward. "Oh Billy, if I could help you."

"How can you, Moritz?" answered Billy, and he could hear from her voice that she was weeping.
"I--I--am longing so terribly for Boris." The arm against which Billy was leaning trembled
slightly; it was as if its muscles tightened.

"That--" hissed Moritz between clenched teeth, "you must not think of him ... how could he
do that to you ... he had no right to die ... and not die that way, even if life had been twice
as loathsome to him ... a man who loves doesn't do such a thing; that was base."

For a moment it grew quite still. Moritz merely felt the girlish body lean a little more heavily
on him. At last Billy began, and it sounded like the faint wail of a child: "Is he dead?"

"What, Billy, you didn't know--"

"Yes I did, I knew it, I feel now that I knew it all the time--and even over there when I came
away from him." She was silent a while, and it grew so still that they heard the night-dew
trickling through the leaves. Suddenly Billy raised herself, stood before Moritz white and
erect, brushed the hair from her forehead, while the moonlight rested on her face, which seemed
queerly pale and calm, and said in almost a matter-of-fact tone, "Will you come along, Moritz?"

"Where to, Billy!"

"I must go to him, you can see that; I left him once before. He can't stay there alone in that
terrible room. The Jewess is looking at him and the children are standing in the door. No,
I will not forsake him again; but alone through the forest again--please, Moritz, come along."
She swayed slightly, propped herself on Moritz's shoulder, and then sank down quietly and heavily
before him.--

Billy had been sick for a long time. Now it was a sunny September afternoon, and she was for
the first time permitted to go out into the garden. On the patch of turf under the pear-tree
Billy sat wrapped in shawls, her face haggard and transparently pale, and in her eyes the lazily
relishing glance of the convalescent, who likes to let his eyes rest a long time upon objects.
On the other grass-plot Lisa was lying in her reclining chair, and Madame Bonnechose sat beside
her, knitting a red child's stocking. Countess Betty and Marion never stopped running along
between the rows of dahlias to and from the house and the grass-plots. Count Hamilcar was taking
his afternoon stroll. He walked slowly down the garden-path, leaning heavily on his cane; from
time to time he stopped, sniffed the scent of the ripe fruit, the flowers, and the fading leaves,
and put on a stern, angry face, for he was indeed vexed. Here lay these two beautiful creatures
now, blighted by life, crumpled up, attacked from ambush. Why? Why this barbarity? Why this
waste? He drew up his gray eyebrows discontentedly and blinked out at the fringe of forest
which lay far away in a violet haze. Was it not perhaps a misunderstanding, his misunderstanding,
this charming culture that he had carefully erected like a fence about himself and his dear
ones? Could one learn how to live here? As he passed Lisa, he heard her say in her elegiac fashion,

"I do not believe that Billy can understand a great pain, or that she can enjoy it, for we
must be able to enjoy even our pain."

"Enjoy, ma chère, quelle idée," said Madame Bonnechose, without looking up from her knitting.

The count passed on and came to a stop before Billy. "Well, how are you?" he asked a little
sternly.

Billy flushed. "Thank you, papa, well. I wanted to tell you something."

"Oh, you did." The count sat down on a garden-chair facing his daughter and looked attentively
at her.

"I wanted to ask you," began Billy, looking up into the pear-tree, "I wanted to ask you if
you have forgiven me."

"Yes, certainly," the count slowly replied, as if he had been given a problem to solve. "When
we pardon some one, we wish by doing so to help him get over something he has experienced or
done. In this case, of course, that is my liveliest wish."

Billy leaned her head back satisfied, and gently moved it to and fro on her pillow as fever-patients
are wont to do. "When we are sick," she said, "time goes faster, I think; what went before
the sickness lies so far away. It seems to me as if I had done so much during this time of
sickness, and especially I have walked a great deal, always walking, always on the way, and
always such wonderfully strange roads. I don't remember much of it all, I only know one thing:
I was walking along a yellow country road and ahead of me some one was walking, and somebody
ahead of her, and so on; there were many figures, and they were all wearing my brown rain-coat
and my muslin dress with the pink carnation figure, in fact they were all Billys, and I knew
the point was for me to catch up with the Billy that was ahead of me. That seemed very important
to me."

"H'm," remarked the count, "an interesting dream. Those are our mirrored images that become
emancipated in our dreams. And now," he smiled at his daughter, "now you think you have caught
that other Billy."

Billy still kept looking up at the pear-tree, and gently rocked her head. "Now I am quite happy,"
she said meditatively, "but perhaps I ought not to be. Lisa says that any one who has a great
grief should stand before it like a soldier on guard."

Count Hamilcar angrily thrust out his underlip and said sharply, "To stand before one's follies
like a soldier on guard is certainly not commendable."

Billy did not seem to hear him. She still kept on dreamily talking to the little golden-yellow
pears that hung over her: "And to be faithless, to be faithless is so terribly villainous."

The count bent forward, lifted his extended index finger in the sunshine, and said slowly and
impressively, "My daughter, provision is made that we shall not be faithless, but remain true,
to our sad or foolish experiences. They run after us in any case. Perhaps we are continually
changing, and that is well. But the score always remains the same. To come back to your remarkable
dream, when the one Billy has successfully caught the other Billy, you can be sure that the
old Billy gives all the burdens she has had to carry to the new one to take with her. That
is and must be so."

"All--for ever," said Billy under her breath, and she looked at her father with a glance of
such helpless fear that he dropped his eyes, for a keen compassion caused him almost physical pain.

"Well, well," he rejoined, "when there are as many Billys as you have before you, there cannot
fail to be many pleasant things to take along."

"Yes, don't you think lots of good things must still come?" cried Billy. The count looked up
in surprise. He saw that Billy had raised her arms and clasped her hands over her head, and
she was smiling a wonderfully expectant smile.

"Oh, that's it," he murmured, "why, then, in that case--" He rose, brushed Billy's cheeks hastily
with two fingers, and slowly walked back up the garden-path. Not much need for consolation
in that quarter. This child was far ahead of him in her faith in life; there was nothing further
for him to say. He sat down on the bench at the edge of the meadow, wishing to sun himself.
How they loved life, these poor children, and how they trusted it! Yes, and life wants that:
to be loved, so as to be cruel. Perhaps a good method, always supposing there is a purpose
in it. He gently passed his hand over brow and eyes: if only sympathy were not so exhausting,
always to share the lives of others, although--to be sure, three-fourths of our life lies somewhere
in the lives of others. If we cannot share that, only one-fourth is left to us, and that is
too little for intoxication, that is almost abstemiousness. Oh, very well, abstemiousness generally
results in comprehension, only in this case comprehension is not so simple. He squeezed his
eyelids together as if wishing to gather into his eyes and crush to powder the flaming gold
of the afternoon light. How was that?--he was trying to recall a verse in Homer. His memory
left him in the lurch, too: how does it go where Hector's soul is wailing aloud because it
must give up its beloved life? He could not recall it. Poor devil, by the way, right out of
the midst of his intoxication. One of the great flies now came flying past Count Hamilcar with
softly buzzing wings. He went "brrr" with his lips and smiled a really cheerful smile as he
watched how this queer bundle of gauzy wings and golden gossamer floated deliriously through
the sunshine. "Mad with life," he thought, "if all this only has some object. At any rate there
is more chance for meaning than for the lack of it, although--if I am a digit in the great
calculation, then to be sure I have a meaning, but that is no reason at all why the result
under the black line must have a significance for me." The point was to be a digit in the result
under that line. However, thinking exhausted him. Why must we always think?--another prejudice.
Let us not think, but breathe. He leaned back and opened his mouth a little. Breathing too
might have been made an easier and simpler affair. He was cold, doubtless he would have to
walk a little further; he tried to rise, but his legs would not carry him. He stretched out
his long arms as if wishing to get an armful of sunshine, and his face assumed a vexed, anxious
expression; then he fell back, became quite still, and collapsed, leaning a trifle crookedly
over the arm of the bench in that weary movement which the first moment of death brings to
man, before its chill severity comes. The sun was already low, bathing the mute figure in ruddy
light, a gentle zephyr stirred a gray tuft of hair on the pale temple, and the big fly flew
back again with a buzz past the white nose, motionless now. Round about, the ripe fruit fell
heavily upon the turf, making the whir of the field-crickets cease for a moment. But yonder
under the pear-tree sat Billy, looking into the evening sun with feverishly shining eyes, and
still smiling her expectant, longing smile. Wet and draughty were the gable-fringed streets,
and now and then there fell a sort of soft hail, not ice and not snow.

School was out. Over the paved yard and from out the barred portal streamed the throngs of
the liberated. Big boys dignifiedly held their books tightly under their left armpits, while
their right arms rowed them against the wind toward the noon meal; little fellows set off on
a merry canter, so that the icy slush spattered, and the traps of Science rattled in their
knapsacks of seal leather. But here and there all caps flew off, and a score of reverent eyes
did homage to the hat of Odin and the beard of Jove--on some senior teacher striding along
with measured step ...

"Is it you at last, Hans?" said Tonio Kröger, who had long been waiting on the drive; and with
a smile he stepped up to his friend, who was just coming out of the gate in conversation with
other comrades, and who was on the point of going off with them.

"What is it?" asked the latter, looking at Tonio;--"Oh yes, that's so; well, let's take a little
walk, then."

Tonio was silent, and his eyes grew sad. Had Hans forgotten, not to think of it again until
this minute, that they were going to walk a bit together this noon? And he himself had been
looking forward to it almost uninterruptedly since the plan was made.

"Well, so long, fellows," said Hans Hansen to his comrades. "I'm going to take a little walk
with Kröger." And they turned to the left, while the others sauntered off to the right.

Hans and Tonio had time to go walking after school, because they both belonged to houses in
which dinner was not eaten until four o'clock. Their fathers were great merchants who held
public offices and were a power in the city. For many a generation the Hansens had owned the
extensive lumber yards down along the river, where mighty steam saws cut up the logs amid buzzing
and hissing. And Tonio was Consul Kröger's son, whose grain sacks were carted through the streets
day after day, with the broad black trade mark on them; the big ancient house of his ancestors
was the most princely of the whole town. The two friends had to take off their caps constantly,
because of their many acquaintances, and indeed these fourteen-year-old boys did not always
have to bow first.

Both had hung their school-bags over their shoulders, and both were dressed warmly and well;
Hans in a short seaman's jacket, over the shoulders and back of which lay the broad blue collar
of his sailor suit, Tonio in a gray belted top-coat. Hans wore a Danish sailor's cap with short
ribbons, a tuft of his flaxen hair peeping out from under it. He was extraordinarily handsome
and well formed, broad of shoulder and narrow of hip, with unshaded, keen, steel-blue eyes.
From under Tonio's round fur cap, on the other hand, there looked out of a swarthy face, with
very clearly marked southern features, dark and delicately shaded eyes under excessively heavy
lids, dreamy and a trifle timid. Mouth and chin were both fashioned with uncommonly soft lines.
He walked carelessly and unevenly, whereas Hans's slender legs in their black stockings moved
so elastically and rhythmically.

Tonio did not speak. He was grieved. Drawing together his rather slanting eyebrows, and holding
his lips pursed for whistling, he looked into space with his head on one side. This attitude
and expression were peculiar to him.

Suddenly Hans thrust his arm under that of Tonio with a sidelong glance at him, for he understood
quite well what the matter was. And although Tonio persisted in silence during the next few
steps, yet he was all at once amazingly softened.

"You know I hadn't forgotten, Tonio," said Hans, looking down at the walk before him, "but
I simply thought probably nothing could come of it today, because it's so wet and windy, you
know. But that doesn't bother me at all, and I think it's fine that you waited for me in spite
of it. I had begun to think you had gone on home, and was vexed ..."

At these words Tonio's entire being began to leap and shout.

"Why, then we'll go over the ramparts now," he said with agitated voice. "Over the Mill Rampart
and the Holsten Rampart, and then I'll take you home that way, Hans ... Why no, it doesn't
matter if I go home alone then; next time you'll go with me."

At bottom he did not believe very completely in what Hans had said, and he felt distinctly
that the latter assigned only half as much importance to this walk as he. But yet he saw that
Hans regretted his forgetfulness and was making it a point to conciliate him. And he was far
from wishing to impede the conciliation.

The fact was that Tonio loved Hans Hansen and had already suffered much for his sake. He who
loves most is the weaker and must suffer--this simple and bitter doctrine of life his fourteen-year-old
spirit had already accepted; and he was so constituted that he marked well all such experiences,
and as it were jotted them down inwardly, and indeed he had a certain pleasure in them, though
to be sure without ordering his conduct accordingly and so deriving practical benefit from
them. Furthermore, his nature was such that he deemed such teachings much more important and
interesting than the knowledge which was forced upon him in school; during the class hours
in the vaulted Gothic school-rooms he applied himself mostly to tasting the sensations of such
bits of insight to the lees, and thinking them out in their entirety. This occupation afforded
the same kind of satisfaction as when he would walk up and down his room with his violin (for
he played the violin), letting the soft tones, as soft as he could produce them, mingle with
the plashing of the fountain which rose in a flickering jet under the branches of the old walnut-tree
in the garden below.

The fountain, the old walnut, his violin, and far away the sea, the Baltic, whose summer dreams
he could listen to in the long vacation--these were the things he loved, with which he encompassed
himself, as it were, and among which his inward life ran its course; things whose names may
be employed with good effect in verse, and which did actually ring out time and again in the
verses which Tonio Kröger occasionally composed.

This fact, that he possessed a note-book with verse of his own in it, had become known through
his own fault, and it injured him greatly both with his fellows and his teachers. The son of
Consul Kröger thought it on the one hand stupid and base to condemn him for writing verses,
and he despised on that account both fellows and teachers, whose bad manners were always repellent
to him, and whose personal weaknesses he detected with strange penetration. On the other hand,
he himself found it really an improper dissipation to write verse, and so had to agree to some
extent with all those who regarded it as a doubtful occupation. But this could not make him
give it up.

As he wasted his time at home, was slow and generally inattentive in class hours, and had a
bad record with his teachers, he always brought home the most wretched reports; at which his
father, a tall, carefully dressed gentleman with meditative blue eyes, who always wore a wild
flower in his button-hole, shewed himself both incensed and distressed. But to his mother,
his beautiful mother with the black hair, whose name was Consuelo and who was altogether so
different from the other ladies of the town, because Tonio's father had once fetched her from
clear down at the bottom of the map--to his mother his reports were absolutely immaterial.

Tonio loved his dark, passionate mother, who played the piano and the mandolin so wonderfully,
and he was happy that she did not grieve over his doubtful position among men. On the other
hand, however, he realized that his father's anger was much more estimable and respectable,
and although he was censured by his father, he was at bottom quite in agreement with him, whereas
he found the cheerful indifference of his mother a trifle unprincipled. At times his thoughts
would run about thus: "It is bad enough that I am as I am, and will not and cannot alter myself,
negligent, refractory, and intent on things that nobody else thinks of. At least it is proper
that they should seriously chide and punish me for it, and not pass it over with kisses and
music. After all, we aren't gipsies in a green wagon, but decent folks, Consul Krögers, the
Kröger family" ... And not infrequently he would think: "Well, why am I so peculiar and at
outs with everything, at loggerheads with my teachers and a stranger among the boys? Look at
them, the good pupils and those of honest mediocrity. They don't think the teachers funny,
they write no verses, and they only think what others think and what you can say out loud.
How proper they must feel, how satisfied with everything and everybody. That must be nice ...
But what ails me, and how will all this end?"

This fashion of scrutinizing himself and his relation to life played an important part in Tonio's
love for Hans Hansen. First of all he loved him because he was handsome; but also because he
seemed to be his own antipodes and converse in all respects. Hans Hansen was an excellent scholar
and at the same time a lively fellow who rode, swam, and played athletic games like a hero
and rejoiced in universal popularity. The teachers were devoted to him almost to the point
of affection, called him by his Christian name, and advanced him in every way; his comrades
were eager for his favor, and on the street ladies and gentlemen would stop him, seize him
by the tuft of flaxen hair that peeped out from under his Danish sailor's cap, saying, "Good
day, Hans Hansen with your pretty tuft! Are you still Primus? Remember me to father and mother,
my fine boy ..."

That was Hans Hansen, and ever since Tonio Kröger first knew him he felt a longing as often
as he beheld him, an envious longing that dwelt above his breast and burned there. "Oh, if
one had such blue eyes," he thought, "and lived such an orderly life and in such happy communion
with the whole world as you do! You are always occupied in some decorous and universally respected
way. When you have done your tasks for school, you take riding lessons or work with the fret-saw,
and even in the long vacation on the seashore your time is taken up with rowing, sailing, and
swimming; while I lie lost in idle thought on the sand, staring at the mysteriously changing
expressions that flit over the countenance of the sea. And that is why your eyes are so clear.
To be like you." ...

He did not make the attempt to be like Hans Hansen, and perhaps he did not even mean this wish
very seriously. But he did have an aching desire to be loved by Hans, just as he was, and he
sued for that love in his fashion, a slow and intimate, devoted, passive and sorrowful fashion,
but a sorrow which can burn more deeply and consumingly than all the swift passionateness one
might have expected in view of his foreign appearance.

And he did not sue wholly in vain; for Hans, who by the way respected a certain superiority
in Tonio, a skill in speech which enabled him to give utterance to difficult matters, understood
quite well that an unusually strong and tender affection was vibrating here, showed himself
grateful, and gave Tonio many a happy hour by meeting him half-way--but also many a pang of
jealousy and disappointment, the pain of a vain endeavor to find a common spiritual ground.
For the remarkable thing was that Tonio, although he envied Hans Hansen for his way of living,
constantly tried to bring him around to his own, which he could never do for more than a few
minutes, and then only in seeming.

"I've just been reading something wonderful, something splendid," he said. They were walking
along, eating fruit tablets from a bag which they had purchased at Iverson's on Mill Street
for ten pfennig. "You must read it, Hans, it is Don Carlos by Schiller. I'll lend it to you,
if you wish."

"No, no," said Hans Hansen, "never mind, Tonio, that's not my style. I stick to my horse-books,
you know. Splendid illustrations in them, I tell you. Sometime I'll show them to you at the
house. They are snap-shots, and you see the horses trotting and galloping and jumping, in every
position, such as you would never see in life because they move too fast."

"In all positions?" asked Tonio politely. "Yes, that's fine, but as for Don Carlos, it is beyond
all comprehension. There are passages in it, you'll see, that are so beautiful that it gives
you a jerk, as if something had suddenly burst."

"Burst?" asked Hans Hansen. "How do you mean?"

"For example, there is the passage where the king has wept because he has been deceived by
the marquis--but the marquis has only deceived him for love of the prince, you understand,
for whom he is sacrificing himself. And now the news that the king has wept comes out of his
cabinet into the ante-room. 'Wept? The king has wept?' All the courtiers are terribly taken
aback, and it just goes through you, for he's an awfully stiff and strict king. But you understand
so clearly that he did weep, and I really feel sorrier for him than for the marquis and the
prince together. He's always so utterly alone and without love, and now he thinks he has found
a friend, and the friend betrays him ..."

Hans Hansen cast a sidelong glance into Tonio's face, and something in that face must surely
have won him over to this subject, for he suddenly thrust his arm into Tonio's again and asked,

"Why, how does he betray the king, Tonio?"

Tonio was stirred to action.

"Why, the fact is," he began, "that all letters to Brabant and Flanders ..."

"There comes Erwin Immerthal," said Hans.

Tonio was silent. "If only the earth would swallow him up," he thought, "this Immerthal. Why
must he come and disturb us? I only hope he won't go along and talk about his riding lessons
the whole hour"--For Erwin Immerthal had riding lessons also. He was the son of a bank director
and lived here outside the gate. With his crooked legs and his eyes like slits he came along
the avenue to meet them, his school-bag already safe at home.

"Hello, Immerthal," said Hans. "I'm taking a little walk with Kröger."

"I have to go into town," said Immerthal, "on some errands. But I'll walk a piece with you
... Those are fruit tablets, aren't they? Thanks, yes, I'll eat a couple. We take another lesson
tomorrow, Hans."--He meant the riding lesson.

"Fine!" said Hans. "You know, I'm going to get the leather spats now, because I got A on my
exercise last week."

"I suppose you aren't taking riding lessons yet, Kröger?" asked Immerthal, and his eyes were
only a pair of shining slits.

"No," answered Tonio with quite uncertain accent.

"You ought to ask your father, Kröger," remarked Hans Hansen, "to let you take lessons too."

"Ayah," said Tonio both hastily and indifferently. For a moment he had a lump in his throat,
because Hans had called him by his surname; and Hans seemed to feel this, for he said in explanation:

"I call you Kröger, because your Christian name is so crazy; excuse me, but I don't like it.
Tonio ... that's no name at all. But then it's not your fault, of course not."

"No, I suppose the chief reason why you are named that is because it sounds foreign and is
uncommon," said Immerthal, acting as if he wanted to patch things up.

Tonio's mouth quivered. He pulled himself together and said,

"Yes, it is a silly name, and Heaven knows I wish I were named Heinrich or Wilhelm, you can
take my word for that. But the reason is that a brother of my mother, for whom I was christened,
is named Antonio; for you know my mother came from over there ..."

Then he said no more, and let the other two talk of horses and harness. Hans had taken Immerthal's
arm, and was talking with a fluent sympathy which never could have been aroused in him for
Don Carlos ... From time to time Tonio felt rising and tickling his nose a desire to weep;
and he had difficulty in controlling his chin, which constantly tried to quiver.

Hans did not like his name--what was to be done? His own name was Hans, and Immerthal's was
Erwin; very well, those were universally recognized names that no one thought strange. But
"Tonio" was something foreign and uncommon. Yes, there was something uncommon about him in
every respect, whether he would or no, and he was alone and excluded from regular and ordinary
folks, although he was no gipsy in a green wagon, but a son of Consul Kröger, of the Kröger
family ... But why did Hans call him Tonio so long as they were alone, if he began to be ashamed
of him when a third person came up? At times Hans was close to him, even won over, it seemed.
"How does he betray him, Tonio?" he had asked, and taken his arm. But then when Immerthal came,
Hans sighed with relief just the same, forsook him, and found no difficulty in reproaching
him with his foreign name. How it hurt to have to see through all this!... At bottom, Hans
Hansen liked him a little when they were alone together, he knew that. But when a third person
came, Hans was ashamed of it and sacrificed him. And he was alone again. He thought of King
Philip. The king had wept ...

"For heaven's sake," said Erwin Immerthal, "now I really must be off into town. Good-by, fellows,
and thanks for the candy." With that he jumped upon a bench that stood beside the street, ran
along it with his crooked legs, and trotted off.

"I like Immerthal," said Hans emphatically. Hans had a spoiled and self-conscious way of making
known his likes and antipathies, of distributing them with royal favor, as it were ... And
then he went on to speak of the riding lessons, for he was now in that vein. Besides, it was
now not far to the Hansens' house; the walk over the ramparts did not take very long. They
held their caps tightly, and bowed their heads before the strong damp wind that creaked and
groaned in the bare branches of the trees. And Hans Hansen talked, while Tonio interjected
no more than a mechanical "Oh" or "Oh yes" from time to time, nor felt any joy that Hans had
taken his arm again in the ardor of speech; for that was only a seeming advance, without significance.

Then they forsook the park strip along the ramparts not far from the station, watched a train
puff by with clumsy haste, counted the cars to pass the time, and waved to the man who sat
perched high on the last car, muffled in furs. And then they came to a stop on the square with
the lindens in front of the villa of Hansen the wholesaler, and Hans showed in detail what
fun it was to stand on the bottom of the garden gate and swing back and forth until the hinges
fairly screeched. But hereupon he took his leave.

"Well, now I must go in," he said. "Good-by, Tonio. Next time I'll go home with you, be sure
of that."

"Good-by, Hans," said Tonio, "it was nice to go walking."

The hands they clasped were quite wet and rusty from the garden gate. But when Hans looked
into Tonio's eyes, something like penitent reflection came into his handsome face.

"And by the way, I'm going to read Don Carlos pretty soon," he said quickly. "That about the
king in his cabinet must be fine." Then he put his school-bag under his arm and ran off through
the front yard. Before he disappeared into the house he turned once more and nodded.

And Tonio Kröger went away quite transfigured and on wings. The wind was at his back, but that
was not the only reason why he moved away so lightly.

Hans would read Don Carlos, and then they would have something in common, about which neither
Immerthal nor any one else could talk with them. How well they understood each other. Who could
tell--perhaps he might even bring him to the point of writing verses too ... No, no, he did
not want to do that. Hans must not become like Tonio, but remain as he was, so bright and strong,
just as everybody loved him, and Tonio most of all. But to read Don Carlos wouldn't hurt him,
just the same ... And Tonio went through the old, square-built gate, along the harbor, and
up the steep, draughty, and wet Gable Street to the house of his parents. That was when his
heart lived; there was longing in it and melancholy envy and a tiny bit of contempt, and an
unalloyed chaste blissfulness.

                                II

Fair-haired Inga, Ingeborg Holm, daughter of Doctor Holm who lived on the market-place where
the Gothic fountain stood, lofty, many-pointed, and of varied form, she it was whom Tonio Kröger
loved at sixteen.

How did that happen? He had seen her a thousand times; but one evening he saw her in a certain
light, saw how in conversing with a girl friend she laughingly tossed her head in a certain
saucy fashion, and carried her hand, a little-girl's hand, by no means especially slender or
dainty, up to her back hair in a certain fashion, so that the white gauze sleeve slipped down
from her elbow; heard how she pronounced a word, an insignificant word, in a certain fashion,
with a warm ring in her voice,--and a rapture seized upon his heart, far stronger than that
which he had formerly felt at times when he looked at Hans Hansen, in those days when he was
a small, silly boy.

On this evening he took away with him an image of her, with the thick blond braid, the elongated,
laughing blue eyes, and a delicately marked saddle of freckles on her nose, and could not sleep
for hearing the ring in her voice, softly trying to imitate the intonation with which she had
uttered the insignificant word, and quivering as he did so. Experience taught him that this
was love. But although he knew perfectly that love must inevitably bring him much pain, affliction,
and humiliation, that it moreover destroys peace and overfills the heart with sweet melodies,
without giving a man peace enough to round off any one thing and calmly weld it into a unified
whole, yet he entertained it with joy, surrendered wholly to it, and nursed it with all the
powers of his spirit; for he knew that it gives life and riches, and he longed to be alive
and rich, instead of calmly welding anything into a unified whole.

This loss of Tonio Kröger's heart to merry Inga Holm occurred in the empty drawing-room of
Mrs. Consul Husteede, whose turn it was that evening to have the dancing class; for it was
a private class, to which only members of the first families belonged, and they assembled in
turn in the parental houses in order to receive instruction in dancing arid deportment. For
this special purpose dancing-master Knaak came over every week from Hamburg.

Francois Knaak was his name, and what a man he was! "J'ai l'honneur de me vous représenter,"
he would say, "mon nom est Knaak ... And this one does not say while one is bowing, but when
one is again standing upright--not loudly and yet clearly. One is not every day in a position
where one must introduce oneself in French, but if one can do so correctly and flawlessly in
that language, then one will certainly not fail in German." How wonderfully the silky black
frock-coat clung about his fat hips! In soft folds his trousers fell to his patent-leather
pumps, which were adorned with broad satin bows, and his brown eyes looked about with a satiated
happiness at their own beauty.

Every one was crushed by the excess of assurance and decorum in him. He would glide--and none
could glide like him, elastic, rocking, swaying, royal--up to the mistress of the house, bow,
and wait for her to extend her hand to him. When he had received it, he would thank her in
a low voice, step back springily, turn on his left foot, snap the toe of his right foot sidewise
off the floor, and glide away with swaying hips.

One went out of the door backward and bowing when one left a company; one did not bring up
a chair by seizing one leg of it, or dragging it along the floor, but one carried it lightly
by the back and set it down noiselessly. One did not stand with hands folded on the--pardon!--
belly, and the tongue thrust into the cheek; but if one did so none the less, M. Knaak had
such a fashion of doing likewise that one preserved for the rest of his days a loathing for
this attitude.

This was deportment. But as for dancing, M. Knaak mastered that in still higher degree, if
possible. In the empty salon the gas-flames of the chandelier and the candles on the mantle-piece
were burning. The floor was strewn with soapstone, and the pupils stood about in a mute semicircle.
Beyond those portieres, in the adjoining room, sat the mothers and aunts in plush chairs, surveying
M. Knaak through their lorgnettes, as he bowed forward, grasped the hem of his frock-coat with
two fingers of each hand, and with springy legs demonstrated the various steps of the mazurka.
But when he had a mind to completely startle his audience, he would suddenly and without cogent
reason leap high in the air, cut pigeon-wings with bewildering rapidity, trilling with his
feet, so to say, whereupon he would return to this earth with a muffled thud which, however,
shook everything to its foundations.

"What an incomprehensible monkey!" thought Tonio Kröger. But he saw clearly that Inga Holm,
the merry Inga, often followed M. Knaak's movements with a self-forgetful smile, and this was
not the only reason why all this wonderfully controlled corporosity did at bottom wrest from
him something like admiration. How peaceful and unperplexed M. Knaak's eyes were! They did
not penetrate to the point where matters grow complex and mournful; they knew nothing save
that they were brown and beautiful. But that was why his bearing was so haughty. Yes, you must
be stupid in order to walk like him; and then you would be loved because you were amiable.
He comprehended so readily that Inga, fair-haired, sweet Inga, looked upon M. Knaak as she
did. But would never a maiden look thus upon himself?

Oh yes, that happened. There was Magdalen Vermehren, lawyer Vermehren's daughter, with the
gentle mouth and the large, dark, shining eyes full of seriousness--and sentimentality. She
often fell in dancing; but she came to him when it was ladies' choice, she knew that he wrote
verses, twice she had asked him to show them to her, and often she looked at him from a distance
with lowered head. But what good was that to him? As for him, he loved Inga Holm, the fair-haired
merry Inga, who undoubtedly despised him because he wrote poetic things ... he looked at her,
saw her elongated blue eyes full of happiness and mockery, and an envious longing, a bitter,
harassing pain at being cut off from her and eternally foreign to her, dwelt in his breast
and burned there ...

"First couple en avant!" said M. Knaak, and no words can describe how wonderfully the man brought
out the nasal sound. They were practising the quadrille, and to Tonio Kröger's intense terror
he found himself in the same set with Inga Holm. He avoided her when he could, and still he
kept getting near her; he forbade his eyes to approach her, and still his glance was forever
striking her ... Now she came gliding and running up hand in hand with red-headed Ferdinand
Matthiessen, threw back her braid, and placed herself opposite him, breathing deeply; Mr. Heinzelmann
the pianist ran his bony fingers over the keys, M. Knaak called out the figures, and the quadrille
began.

She moved back and forth before him, forward and back, gliding and turning: a fragrance that
came from her hair or the dainty white stuff of her dress reached him now and then, and his
eyes grew sadder and sadder. "I love you, dear, sweet Inga," he was saying to himself; and
he put into these words all the pain he felt that she was so merry and so intent on the dancing,
and paid no heed to him. A wonderful poem by Storm came to his mind: "I fain would sleep, but
thou must dance." He was tormented by the humiliating contradiction that lay in having to dance
while he was in love ...

"First couple en avant!" said M. Knaak, for a new figure was beginning. "Compliment! Moulinet
des dames! Tour de main!" And no one can describe in what a graceful manner he swallowed the
silent e in de.

"Second couple en avant!" Tonio Kröger and his lady were the ones. "Compliment!" And Tonio
Kröger bowed. "Moulinet des dames!" And Tonio Kröger, with lowered head and gloomy brow, laid
his hand on the hands of the four ladies, on that of Inga Holm, and danced "moulinet."

All around there arose a giggling and laughing. M. Knaak assumed a ballet pose which expressed
a conventionalized horror. "O dear," he cried. "Halt, halt! Kröger has got in among the ladies.
En arrière, Miss Kröger, back, fi donc! All understand it now except you. Quick, away, back
with you!" And he drew out his yellow silk handkerchief and waved Tonio Kröger back to his
place with it.

Everybody laughed--the boys, the girls, and the ladies beyond the portières; for M. Knaak had
made the little episode too funny for words, and all were amused as at a play. Only Mr. Heinzelmann
waited with unmoved official countenance for the signal to play on, for he was hardened against
M. Knaak's effects.

Then the quadrille was continued. And then there was an intermission. The second-girl came
clinking through the door with a tea-tray of wine-jelly in glasses, and the cook followed in
her wake with a cargo of raisin-cake. But Tonio Kröger stole away in secret out into the corridor,
and there placed himself with his hands behind him at the window with drawn blinds, not reflecting
that one could see nothing at all through the blinds, and that it was therefore ridiculous
to stand in front of them and to act as if one were looking out.

But he looked into himself, where there was so much grief and longing. Why, why was he here?
Why was he not sitting in his room by the window, reading in Storm's Immensee and looking now
and then into the twilight of the garden, where the old walnut-tree was groaning heavily? That
would have been the place for him. Let the others dance and be lively and adept at it ... But
no, this was the right place after all, where he knew himself near to Inga, even though he
only stood lonely and far off, trying to distinguish her voice, with its ring of warm life,
in the hum, clinking, and laughter there within. Oh, your laughing blue almond eyes, you fair-haired
Inga! As fair and merry as you, one can be only when one does not read Immensee and never attempts
to compose its like; that is the sad part! ...

She ought to come to him! She ought to notice that he was gone, ought to feel how it was with
him, ought to follow him secretly, if only out of compassion, lay her hand on his shoulder
and say: "Come in and join us and be happy, for I love you." And he listened for steps behind
him, and waited in unreasonable suspense for her to come. But she came not at all. The like
of that did not happen on earth.

Had she too laughed at him, like all the rest? Yes, she had done so, gladly as he would have
denied it for her and his own sake. And yet he had only danced "moulinet des dames" because
absorbed in her presence. And what did it matter? Perhaps they would stop laughing some time.
Had not a magazine a short while before accepted one of his poems, though it was discontinued
before the poem could appear? The day would come when he would be famous, when everything he
wrote would be printed, and then it was to be seen whether that wouldn't make an impression
on Inga Holm ... But it wouldn't make any impression, no, that was just the trouble. On Magdalen
Vermehren, who was always falling down, yes, on her it would. But never on Inga Holm, never
on the blue-eyed, merry Inga. And so was it not in vain?

Tonio Kröger's heart contracted with pain at this thought. To feel how wonderful sportive and
melancholy powers are stirring in you, and to know at the same time that those to whom your
longing draws you are gaily inaccessible to them, that hurts grievously. But although he stood
lonely, shut out, and without hope before closed blinds, pretending in his distress that he
could look through them, he was none the less happy. For in those days his heart lived. Warmly
and sadly it beat for you, Ingeborg Holm, and his soul embraced your blond, bright, and saucily
ordinary little personality in blissful self-abnegation.

More than once he stood with heated face in lonely spots but faintly reached by music, the
scent of flowers, and the clink of glasses, seeking to distinguish your ringing voice in the
distant hum of the festive throng; grieving for you he stood, and still was happy. More than
once it pained him that he could talk to Magdalen Vermehren, who was always falling down, that
she understood him and was merry or grave with him, whereas fair-haired Inga, even though he
sat beside her, seemed distant and strange and estranged, for his language was not hers; and
still he was happy. For happiness, he told himself, is not being loved; that is satisfied vanity
mingled with repugnance. Happiness consists in loving and snatching up perhaps tiny, deceptive
approaches to the loved object. And he noted down this idea inwardly, thought it out in its
entirety, and tasted it to the lees.

"Faithfulness!" thought Tonio Kröger. "I will be faithful and love you, Ingeborg, as long as
I live." So good were his intentions. And yet a secret fear and sadness whispered: "You know
you have forgotten Hans Hansen altogether, although you see him daily." And the hateful and
pitiful thing was that this soft and slightly malicious voice had the right of it, that time
went on and days came when Tonio Kröger was no longer so unconditionally ready to die for the
merry Inga as formerly, because he felt in himself the desire and the ability to accomplish
in his fashion a quantity of remarkable things in the world.

And he cautiously circled about the altar of sacrifice on which the pure and chaste flame of
his love was blazing, knelt before it, and stirred and fed it in every way, because he wanted
to be faithful. Yet after a time, imperceptibly, without sensation or noise, it went out nevertheless.

But Tonio Kröger stood yet awhile before the chilled altar, full of wonder and disappointment
to find that faithfulness was impossible on earth. Then he shrugged his shoulders and went his way.

                               III

He went the way he had to go, a little carelessly and unevenly, whistling to himself, looking
into space with head on one side; and if he went astray, that was because there simply is no
right path for some individuals. If you asked him what in all the world he intended to be,
he would supply varying information, for he was wont to say (and had already written it down)
that he had in him the possibilities of a thousand forms of existence, together with the secret
consciousness that they really were one and all impossibilities.

Even before he departed from his cramped native city, the clamps and threads with which it
held him had gently loosened their hold. The old family of the Krögers had little by little
begun to crumble and disintegrate, and men had reason to reckon Tonio Kröger's own existence
and nature among the other features of that process. His father's mother had died, the head
of the family, and not long afterward his father, the tall, meditative, carefully dressed gentleman
with the wild flower in his buttonhole, had followed her in death. The big Kröger house together
with its honorable history was for sale, and the firm went out of business. Tonio's mother,
however, his beautiful, passionate mother, who played the piano and the mandolin so wonderfully,
and to whom everything was quite immaterial, married anew after the lapse of a year, this time
a musician, a virtuoso with an Italian name whom she followed to far-away lands. Tonio Kröger
found this a trifle unprincipled; but was he called upon to prevent her? He who wrote verses
and could not even answer the question what in all the world he intended to become ...

And he forsook his zigzagging native city, around whose gables the damp winds whistled, forsook
the fountain and the old walnut-tree in the garden, the familiars of his youth, forsook also
the sea that he loved so dearly, and felt no pain in so doing. For he had grown mature and
shrewd, had come to comprehend how things stood with himself, and was full of mockery of the
stupid and vulgar existence that had so long held him in its midst.

He surrendered himself wholly to the power which seemed to him the most lofty on earth, into
whose service he felt himself called, and which promised him rank and honors, the power of
the spirit and of speech, which sits smilingly enthroned over this unconscious and mute life.
With all his young passion he surrendered himself to her, and she rewarded him with all she
has to bestow, and took from him inexorably all that she is wont to take as equivalent.

She sharpened his eyes and made him see through and through the big words that swell men's
bosoms, she unlocked for him the souls of men and his own soul, made him a seer, and showed
him the heart of the world and every first cause hidden behind words and deeds. But what he
saw was this: comedy and misery--comedy and misery.

Then came loneliness with the anguish and the arrogance of this knowledge, because he could
not endure the circle of the innocent with their happily beclouded minds, and the mark on his
brow was disconcerting to them. But sweeter and sweeter grew to him the joy in words and in
beautiful forms, for he was wont to say (and had already written it down) that mere knowledge
of the soul would infallibly make us dejected if the pleasure of expression did not keep us
awake and lively....

So he lived in great cities and in the South, from whose sunshine he promised himself a more
luxuriant maturing of his art; and perhaps it was the blood of his mother that drew him thither.
But as his heart was dead and without love, he fell into adventures of the flesh, sank deeply
into lust and the guilt of passion, and suffered unspeakably from it all. Perhaps it was the
heritage of his father in him, of that tall, meditative, neatly dressed gentleman with the
wild flower in his button-hole, that made him suffer so down yonder, and that occasionally
set in motion within him a faint, yearning recollection of a pleasure of the spirit, which
had once been his own, and which he could not find again in all his pleasures.

A loathing and a hatred of the senses seized him, and a thirst for purity and decency and peace;
while after all he was breathing the air of art, that lukewarm, sweet air of an eternal spring,
pregnant with fragrance, in which a mysterious procreative rapture seethes and germinates and
sprouts. So the only result was that Tonio, without support between these crass extremes, tossed
back and forth between icy intellectuality and consuming sensual fire, led an exhausting life
amid torments of conscience, an exquisite, debauched, extraordinary life, which he, Tonio Kröger,
abhorred in his heart. What vagaries, he thought at times. How was it ever possible that I
should fall into all these eccentric adventures? After all, I was no gipsy in a green wagon
to start with ...

But in the same measure that his health was undermined, his artistry grew keener, becoming
fastidious, exquisite, precious, delicate, irritable toward the banal, and most sensitive in
matters of tact and taste. When he first came forward, there was much noise of approval and
joy among those concerned, for what he had produced was a thing full of valuable work, of humor,
and of acquaintance with suffering. And his name, the same name that his teachers had once
used to reprove him, the same name that he had signed to his first rhymes to the walnut-tree,
the fountain, and the sea, this mixture of north and south, this plebeian name with the exotic
flavor, swiftly became the standing symbol of excellence; for with the painful thoroughness
of his experience became associated a rare, tenacious, and ambitious industry, whose struggle
with the finical sensitiveness of his taste produced, amid exquisite torments, unusual works.

He did not work like one who works to live, but like one who desires nothing but work, because
he counts the living man as nothing, only wishes to be considered as a creator, and for the
rest goes about in unobtrusive gray like an unpainted actor who is nothing so long as he has
no part to play. He worked in mute isolation, excluding and despising those petty ones who
used their talent as a social ornament, who either went about in barbarous raggedness, whatever
the state of their fortunes, or else were extravagant in "personal" cravats; whose foremost
thought was to live happily, amiably, and artistically, ignorant of the fact that good works
can only originate under the pressure of an evil life, that he who, lives does not work, and
that one must have died in order to be altogether a creator.

                                IV

"Do I disturb you?" asked Tonio Kröger on the threshold of the studio. He was holding his hat
in his hand, and even bowed slightly, although Lisaveta Ivanovna was his close friend, whom
he told everything.

"Take pity on me, Tonio Kröger, and come in without ceremony," she replied with her frisking
intonation. "It is no secret that you have enjoyed a good bringing up and know what is proper."
Whereat she thrust her brush into her left hand beside the palette, extended her right to him,
and looked into his face with a laugh and a shake of the head.

"Yes, but you are working," he said. "Let me see ... Oh, you have made progress." And he surveyed
in turn the colored sketches leaning against chairs on either side of the easel, and the great
canvas covered with a network of squares, on which the first spots of color were beginning
to appear in the confused and shadowy charcoal sketch.

It was in Munich, in a rear building on Schelling Street, up several nights of stairs. Outside,
behind the broad north window, there was the blue of the sky, the twitter of birds, and sunshine;
and the young, sweet breath of spring streaming in through an open trap-door mingled with the
odor of fixative and oil-paint that filled the large work-room. Unobstructed, the golden light
of the bright afternoon flooded the spacious bareness of the studio, shone frankly on the somewhat
damaged floor, the rude table under the window covered with bottles, tubes, and brushes, and
the unframed studies on the unpapered walls; shone on the screen of tattered silk which stood
near the door and shut off a small corner, tastefully furnished as a living-room and rest-room,
shone also on the nascent work on the easel and the painter and the poet before it.

She might have been about as old as he, that is, a little past thirty. She sat on a low foot-stool
in a dark-blue paint-spotted apron-dress, resting her chin on her hand. Her brown hair, tightly
combed and already turning gray on either side, covered her temples in soft waves and supplied
the frame for her dark Slavic face, infinitely appealing in its expression, with a pug-nose,
sharply prominent cheek bones, and small, glittering black eyes. Expectant, distrustful, and
as it were irritated, she squinted askance at her work ...

He stood beside her, his right hand on his hip, his left rapidly twisting his brown moustache.
His slanting eyebrows showed a gloomy and strained agitation, while he softly whistled to himself,
as usual. His attire, most carefully selected and in excellent taste, was a suit of quiet gray
and of conservative cut. But in his work-lined brow, above which his dark hair was so very
simply and correctly parted, there was a nervous quiver, and the features of his Southern countenance
were already sharply marked, as if a hard burin had gone over them and brought them into higher
relief, whereas his mouth seemed so soft in outline, his chin so gently formed ... After a
time he drew his hand over brow and eyes and turned away.

"I ought not to have come," he said.

"Why not, Tonio Kröger?"

"I have just got up from my work, Lisaveta, and the inside of my head looks exactly like your
canvas. A framework, a dim sketch soiled with alterations, and a few dabs of color, to be sure;
and now I come here and see the same. And the conflict and contrast that tormented me at home
I find here too," and he sniffed the air. "It is strange. If an idea gains control of you,
you will find it expressed everywhere, you will actually smell it in the wind. Fixative and
the aroma of spring, isn't that it? Art and--well, what is the other? Do not say 'Nature,'
Lisaveta, 'Nature' does not exhaust it. Oh, no, I think I ought rather to have gone walking,
although it is a question whether I should have felt any better: five minutes ago, not far
from here, I met a colleague, Adalbert the novelist, and he said in his aggressive way, 'Damn
the spring! It is and always will be the most horrible season. Can you lay hold of one sensible
idea, Kröger, can you work out the tiniest point or effect with any calmness, when you are
feeling an indecent prickling in your blood and are upset by a whole mass of irrelevant sensations
which so soon as you test them are unmasked as unmistakably trivial and wholly unusable stuff?
As for me, I am going to the café now. That is neutral ground, untouched by the change of seasons,
you see; it represents, so to speak, the remote and elevated sphere of the literary, where
one is capable of none but distinguished ideas ...' And he went to the café, and perhaps I
ought to have gone along."

Lisaveta was amused.

"That is good, Tonio Kröger. That about 'indecent prickling' is good. And in a way he is right,
for spring is really not a specially good time to work. But now listen to me. Now I am going
to do this little thing just the same, to make this little point and effect, as Adalbert would
say. Afterward we'll go into the drawing-room and drink some tea, and you will unburden yourself;
for I can see well enough that you are loaded today. Until then you will group yourself anywhere,
for example on that box yonder, if you are not afraid for your patrician garments."

"Oh, let me alone about my garments, Lisaveta Ivanovna! Would you want me to run around in
a torn velvet jacket or a red vest? Inwardly an artist is only too much of an adventurer. Outwardly
he ought to dress well, devil take it, and behave like a decent person ... No, I'm not loaded,"
he said, watching her prepare a mixture on her palette. "You heard me say that it was a problem
and a contrast that is on my mind and that disturbed me at my work ... What were we saying
just now? Oh, Adalbert the novelist, and what a proud and substantial fellow he is. 'Spring
is the most horrible season,' he said, and went to the café. For a man must know what he wants,
mustn't he? You see, the spring makes me nervous too, I too am upset by the charming triviality
of the recollections and sensations which it awakens; only that I cannot bring myself to the
point of chiding and scorning the spring for it; for the fact is that I am ashamed before it,
ashamed before its pure naturalness and its victorious youth. And I do not know whether to
envy or to despise Adalbert for not knowing anything of this ...

"We do work badly in the spring, certainly, and why? Because we feel. And because that man
is a duffer who thinks the creative artist is allowed to feel. Every genuine and sincere artist
smiles at the naiveté of this bungler's error--sadly perhaps, but he does smile. For what one
says must of course never be the first consideration, but the ingredients, indifferent in themselves,
from which the esthetic product is to be put together with easy, calm mastery. If you care
too much about what you have to say, if your heart beats too warmly for it, you can be sure
of a complete fiasco. You become emotional, you become sentimental; something unwieldy, awkwardly
serious, uncontrolled, unironical, unspiced, tedious, or banal takes form under your hands,
and the end is simply indifference in your public, simply disappointment and lamentation in
yourself ... For so it is, Lisaveta: feeling, any warm, hearty feeling is always banal and
unusable, and only the irritations and the cold ecstasies of our demoralized, of our artistic
nervous system are useful in art. It is necessary that one should be something superhuman and
inhuman, that one should have a strangely distant and uninterested relation to everything human,
in order to be able or even tempted to play life, to play with it, to represent it effectively
and tastefully. The talent for style, form, and expression presupposes this cool and fastidious
relation to things human, and even a certain impoverishment and stagnation of the artist. For
every healthy and strong emotion, that is beyond doubt, is tasteless. The artist is done for
so soon as he becomes a man and begins to feel. Adalbert knew that, and that is why he went
to the café, off to the remote sphere, yes indeed."

"Well, God be with him, Batushka," said Lisaveta, washing her hands in a tin basin; "you don't
have to follow him."

"No, Lisaveta, I will not follow him, but only for the reason that I am now and then able to
be a little ashamed before the spring-time of my artistry. You see, at times I get letters
from unknown hands, letters of praise and thanks from my public, admiring apostrophes from
affected readers. I read these and am myself touched in view of the warm and inarticulate human
feeling which my art has aroused in these people; a kind of sympathy comes over me at the naive
enthusiasm which the letters utter, and I blush at the thought of how it would sober these
honest folk if they could ever cast a glance behind the scenes, if their innocence could ever
comprehend that an honest, healthy, and decent human being never writes, acts, or composes
... all of which does not prevent me of course from using their admiration of my genius to
strengthen and stimulate myself, that I take it with the gravest seriousness, and put on a
face like that of an ape pretending to be a big man ... Now don't put in your oar, Lisaveta!
I tell you I am often weary to death of depicting things human without having any share in
them ... Is an artist a man, anyhow? Let some one ask 'woman' that question. It seems to me
that we artists all share a little the fate of those eunuchs that used to sing for the Pope
... Our singing is touchingly beautiful. And yet--"

"You ought to be a little ashamed, Tonio Kröger. Now come and have tea. The water will boil
directly, and here are cigarettes. You were speaking of sopranos when you stopped; go right
on from there. But ashamed you ought to be. If I did not know with what pride and passion you
are devoted to your calling ..."

"Say nothing about a 'calling,' Lisaveta Ivanovna. Literature is not a calling, but a curse--let
me tell you that. When does this curse begin to be perceptible? Early, terribly early. At a
time when by rights one ought still to be living in peace and harmony with God and the world.
You begin to feel yourself marked out, to feel yourself in a mysterious antagonism to other
men, to every-day and decent men, and the abyss of irony, unbelief, opposition, knowledge,
and feeling which cuts you off from the world yawns deeper and deeper; you are lonely, and
from then on all possibility of understanding is over. What a fate! Suppose your heart sufficiently
alive, sufficiently affectionate still, to feel it a terrible one ... Your self-consciousness
takes fire, because you among thousands feel that your brow bears the mark and that it escapes
no one, I knew an actor of genius who as a man had to struggle with morbid embarrassment and
instability. His over-sensitive ego-feeling, together with a lack of parts to play, of histrionic
activity, had that effect upon this perfect artist and impoverished human being ... An artist,
a real one, not one whose official profession is art, but a predestined and pre-condemned artist,
you can pick out of a thousand men, with a little sharpness of sight. The feeling of separation
and of non-membership, of being recognized and observed, is in his face, something at once
regal and perplexed. In the features of a prince walking in ordinary clothes through a crowd
one can see something similar. But here no ordinary garb does any good, Lisaveta. Disguise
yourself, mask yourself, dress like an attaché or like a lieutenant of the Guard on leave:
you will scarcely need to lift your eyes and utter a word before every one will know that you
are not a man, but something strange, something that estranges, that is different ...

"But what is the artist? Toward no question has mankind's indolence and inertia of discernment
proved more unyielding than toward this one. 'Such things are a gift,' humbly say the good
people who are under the influence of an artist, and because cheerful and exalted effects,
according to their good-natured view, must quite inevitably have cheerful and exalted origins,
nobody suspects that we may perhaps have here a most questionable 'gift,' most evilly conditioned
... It is known that artists are over-sensitive--well, it is also known that this is not the
case with people of good conscience and well-founded self-esteem ... You see, Lisaveta, at
the bottom of my soul--translated into the intellectual--I have all the suspicion of the artist
type with which each one of my honorable forefathers up yonder in that cramped city would have
encountered any charlatan or adventurous 'artist' that might have entered his house. Listen
to this. I know a banker, a gray-haired business man, who possesses the ability to write stories.
He makes use of this talent in his hours of leisure, and his things are sometimes quite excellent.
Despite--I say 'despite'--this sublime talent, this man's record is not wholly stainless; on
the contrary, he has already had to serve a long term in prison, and for valid reasons. Indeed
it was really in prison that he first became aware of his ability, and his experiences as inmate
of the jail form the fundamental theme in all his writings. One might infer from this, with
a little boldness, that it is necessary to be at home in some sort of a penal institution in
order to become a poet. But does not the suspicion arise that his experiences as convict may
have been less intimately interwoven with the roots and origins of his artistry than what made
him one--? A banker who writes stories is a curiosity, isn't he? But a non-criminal, honest
banker of clean reputation who should write stories,--there is no such thing ... Yes, now you
are laughing, and still I am only half joking. No problem, none in the world, is more tormenting
than that of artistry and its effect on humanity. Take that most extraordinary creation of
the most typical and hence mightiest artist, take so morbid and deeply ambiguous a work as
Tristan and Isolde, and observe the effect this work has upon a young, healthy man with strongly
normal feeling. You see elevation, invigoration, warm and honest enthusiasm, perhaps stimulation
to some 'artistic' creation of his own ... The good dilettante! Our hearts look very different
from what he dreams, with his 'warm heart' and 'honest enthusiasm.' I have seen artists surrounded
by adoring women and shouting youths, whereas I knew about them ... One constantly has the
most peculiar experiences with regard to the origin, the co-phenomena, and the conditions of
artistry ..."

"In others, Tonio Kröger--excuse me--or not only in others?"

He was silent. He drew his slanting eyebrows together and whistled to himself.

"Let me have your cup, Tonio. It is not strong. And take a fresh cigarette. And anyway, you
know quite well that you look at things as they don't necessarily have to be looked at."

"That is Horatio's answer, dear Lisaveta. ''Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so,'
am I not right?"

"I say that one can consider them just as curiously from another side, Tonio Kröger. I am simply
a stupid, painting female, and if I can make any answer to you at all, if I can take the part
of your own calling to protect it a little against you, it is surely nothing new that I am
advancing, but only a reminder of what you yourself know quite well ... What then: the purifying,
sanctifying power of literature; the destruction of passion by the agency of knowledge and
speech; literature as the road to understanding, to forgiveness, and to love; the redeeming
power of language; literary intellect as the noblest phenomenon of all human intellect whatsoever;
the writer as perfect man, as saint;--if one considered things so, would that be not considering
them curiously enough?"

"You have a right to speak so, Lisaveta Ivanovna, and especially in view of the work of your
poets, and that worship-deserving Russian literature which does really and truly represent
the sacred literature you name. But I have not overlooked your objections, nay, they are a
part of what is on my mind today ... Look at me. I do not look immoderately cheerful, do I?
A little old and sharp-featured and weary? Well, to come back to 'knowledge,' a man might be
imagined, originally unsceptical, long-suffering, well-meaning, and a little sentimental, who
would simply be ground to powder and wrecked by psychological clearness of vision. Not to let
yourself be overcome by the sadness of the world; to observe, mark, and insert everything,
even the most anguishing things, and for the rest be of good courage, even though in the full
grasp of moral superiority over that horrible invention, Life--aye, to be sure! Yet at times
things get away from you a bit despite all the pleasures of Expressing. Does understanding
everything mean forgiving everything? I don't know. There is something that I call the loathing
of perception, Lisaveta: a state in which a man only needs to see through a thing in order
to feel nauseated to the point of dying (and by no means put into a reconciled mood)--the case
of Hamlet the Dane, that most typical man of letters. He knew what it means to be called upon
to know without being born to it. To see clearly even through the tear-woven veil of emotion,
to recognize, mark, observe, and be obliged to thrust aside one's perceptions with a smile
at the very moment when hands clasp each other, lips meet, and when eyes grow dim, blinded
with deep feeling--it is infamous, Lisaveta, it is vile, revolting ... but what good in revolting?

"Another side of the matter, but not less admirable, is then of course a blasé, indifferent,
and ironically weary attitude toward all truth, and it is a fact that there is nothing on earth
stupider or more hopeless than a circle of brilliant people who are already up to every dodge
in the world. All knowledge is old and tedious. Utter a truth in whose conquest and possession
you perhaps have a certain youthful joy, and your vulgar enlightenment will be answered by
a very brief emission of air through the nose ... Ah yes, literature wearies, Lisaveta! I assure
you, it can come to pass in human society that sheer scepticism and continence of opinion make
you seem stupid, whereas you are only proud and discouraged ... So much for 'knowledge.' As
for 'speech,' that is perhaps less a matter of redemption than of taking a feeling and putting
it on ice. Seriously, there is an icy and revolting presumption in this prompt and superficial
dispatching of emotion by means of literary speech. If your heart is too full, if you feel
yourself too greatly stirred by some sweet or exalted experience, what could be simpler?--you
go to the poet, and everything is regulated in the shortest time. He will analyze and formulate
your affair for you, name and utter it and make it talk, relieve you of the whole thing, and
make it indifferent to you for all time and accept no thanks for it. And you--you will go home
relieved, cooled, and clarified, and wonder what there was in the matter that only a moment
before could perplex you with so sweet a tumult. And would you seriously stand up for this
cold and vain charlatan? What is uttered, so runs his confession of faith, is settled. If the
whole world is put into speech, it is settled, redeemed, done away with ... Very good. Yet
I am no nihilist ..."

"You are no--" said Lisaveta. She was just holding a spoonful of tea near her mouth, and stayed
so as if paralyzed.

"Why yes ... why yes ... come to your senses, Lisaveta. I am not that, I say, as far as living
emotion is concerned. You see, the man of letters fails to understand, after all, that life
still likes to go on living, that it is not ashamed of living after it has been put into words
and 'redeemed.' Lo and behold, it keeps on sinning unflinchingly despite its redemption at
the hand of literature; for all action is sin in the eyes of the mind ...

"I am ready to make my point, Lisaveta. Listen to me. I am a lover of life--this is a confession.
Take it and keep it, for I never made it to any one else. They say, they have actually written
and printed it, that I hate or fear or despise or loathe life. I have liked to hear that, for
it flattered me; but it is none the less false. I love life ... You smile, Lisaveta, and I
know why. But I conjure you, do not regard what I am just saying as literature. Do not think
of Cesar Borgia or of any drunken philosophy that elevates him to its escutcheon. He is nothing
to me, this Cesar Borgia. I have the poorest possible opinion of him, and I shall never in
my life understand how men can revere the extraordinary and the demoniacal as an ideal. No,
'life,' standing as it does in eternal contrast to intellect and art--not as a vision of bloody
greatness and barbarous beauty, not as the unusual does it appear to us unusual men; on the
contrary, the normal, decorous, and amiable are the realm of our longing, and these are life
in its seductive banality. That man is far from being an artist, my dear, whose ultimate and
deepest passion is the exquisite, eccentric, and satanic, who knows no yearning for the innocent,
simple, and vital, for a little friendship, devotion, familiarity, and human happiness--the
furtive and consuming yearning, Lisaveta, for the raptures of the commonplace.

"A human friend! Will you believe that it would make me proud and happy to possess one friend
among human beings? But so far I have had friends only among demons, goblins, deep-souled monsters,
and spirits mute with knowledge: that is, among men of letters.

"At times I get on to some platform or other, find myself in a hall face to face with people
who have come to listen to me. Do you know that I often watch myself surveying the audience,
and catch myself stealthily looking around with the question in my heart: who is it that has
come to me, whose applause and thanks are reaching me, with whom will my art procure me an
ideal union here? ... I do not find what I seek, Lisaveta. I find the flock and the congregation
that are familiar to me, a gathering of the early Christians, as it were: people with awkward
bodies and fine souls, people who are always falling down, so to speak--you understand--and
for whom poetry is a gentle vengeance upon life; never any but sufferers, yearners, paupers,
never one of those others, the blue-eyed ones, Lisaveta, who have no need of intellect!...

"And in the last analysis, would it not show a lamentable lack of logic, if one were glad to
have it otherwise? It is inconsistent to love life, and none the less to endeavor constantly
with every possible device to drag it over to your side, to win it over to the finesses and
melancholies, the entire diseased nobility of literature. The realm of art is waxing, and that
of health and innocence is waning on earth. One should preserve as carefully as possible the
little that is left of it, nor try to seduce into poetry those who much prefer to read books
about horses with instantaneous photographs in them.

"For, after all, what sight is more pitiful than life making an attempt at art? We artists
despise no one more thoroughly than the dilettante, the red-blooded man, who thinks he can
be an artist occasionally and on the side. I assure you, this kind of disdain is one of my
own most personal experiences. I find myself in company in an aristocratic house, we eat, drink,
and converse, and understand each other perfectly, and I feel glad and grateful to be able
to disappear for a time among harmless and regular people as a normal man. Suddenly--this has
happened to me--an officer rises, a lieutenant, a handsome, well-built fellow, of whom I should
never have suspected an action unworthy of his honorable dress, and begs in unambiguous words
for permission to communicate to us a few verses which he has manufactured. With a smile of
consternation the permission is given him, and he carries out his purpose, reading his composition
from a slip of paper which he has till then kept hidden in his coat-tail,--something about
music and love;--in short, as deep in feeling as it is ineffective. Now in the name of all
the world: a lieutenant! One of the lords of the earth! He surely doesn't need it!... Well,
the result is inevitable: long faces, silence, a little artificial applause, and the profoundest
discomfort round about. The first spiritual fact of which I become conscious is that I feel
myself an accomplice in the upsetting of the company by this indiscreet young man; and sure
enough: I too, upon whose province he has encroached, catch glances of mockery and scepticism.
But the second fact is that my opinion of this man, for whose whole being I had just felt the
most honest respect, suddenly falls, falls, falls ... A compassionate benevolence seizes me.
With other courageous and good-natured gentlemen I step up to him and encourage him. 'Congratulations,'
I say, 'what a delightful talent! Really, that was most charming.' And I am not far from clapping
him on the shoulder. But is benevolence the feeling that one should have toward a lieutenant?
... His own fault! There he stood and in great embarrassment atoned for the erroneous idea
that one may pluck a leaf, just one, from the bay-tree of art, without paying for it with one's
life. No, there I agree with my colleague, the criminal banker. But tell me, Lisaveta, don't
you think I am endowed with the eloquence of a Hamlet today?"

"Are you through now, Tonio Kröger?"

"No. But I will say no more."

"Nor do you need to.--Do you expect an answer?"

"Have you any?"

"I should think I had.--I have listened closely to you, Tonio, from beginning to end, and I
will give you the answer which fits everything you have said this afternoon, and which is the
solution of the problem that has disquieted you so. Well, then! The solution is this, that
you, just as you sit there, are simply an ordinary man."

"Am I?" he asked, collapsing a little.

"That is a cruel blow, isn't it? It must be. And therefore I will soften my sentence a little,
for I can do so. You are an ordinary man astray, Tonio Kröger,--an erring commoner."

--Silence. Then he stood up resolutely and reached for hat and cane.

"I thank you, Lisaveta Ivanovna; now I can go home in peace. I am finished."

                                V

Toward autumn Tonio Kröger said to Lisaveta Ivanovna,

"Yes, I am going away now, Lisaveta; I must take an airing, and I am going off, going to take
to the open."

"Well, how is it, Little Father, will it be your royal pleasure to return to Italy?"

"Good gracious, go on with your Italy, Lisaveta! Italy is indifferent to me to the point of
contempt. It is a long time since I imagined I belonged there. Art, eh? Velvety blue sky, fiery
wine, and sweet sensuality ... In short, I don't like it. I resign. The whole bellezza makes
me nervous. Nor I don't like all these frightfully lively human beings down there with their
black animal eyes. None of the Romance peoples have any conscience in their eyes.... No, now
I am going up to Denmark for a while."

"To Denmark?"

"Yes. And I promise myself benefit from it. Chance kept me from ever going there, close as
I was to the boundary all through my youth, and yet I have always known and loved the place.
I suppose I must have this affection for the north from my father, for my mother was really
fonder of the bellezza, that is, provided she didn't find everything utterly immaterial. But
take the books that are written up there, those deep, pure, humorous books, Lisaveta--to me
there is nothing like them and I love them. Take the Scandinavian meals, those incomparable
meals that you can only stand in a strong salt air (I don't know whether I can stand them at
all any more), and that I'm a little familiar with from my own home, for that's just the way
we eat at home. Or just simply take the names, the personal names that adorn the people up
there, and that we also had in large numbers at home, take a name like Ingeborg,--a harp-chord
of the most immaculate poesy. And then the sea--they have the Baltic up there! ... In short,
I am going up there, Lisaveta. I wish to see the Baltic again, hear these names again, read
those books on the spot; and I wish to stand on the terrace of Kronborg, where the ghost appeared
to Hamlet and brought distress and death upon the poor, noble young man ..."

"How are you going to go, Tonio, if I may ask? By what route!"

"The usual one," he said with a shrug of the shoulders and a visible blush. "Yes, I shall touch
upon my--my point of departure, Lisaveta, after the lapse of thirteen years, and that may be
rather comic."

Lisaveta smiled.

"That is what I wanted to hear, Tonio Kröger. And so, go with God. And don't fail to write
to me, too, do you hear? I promise myself an eventful letter from your trip to--Denmark."

                                VI

And Tonio Kröger journeyed northward. He traveled comfortably (for he was wont to say that
any one who has so much more distress of soul than other people may justly claim a little external
comfort), and he did not rest until the towers of the cramped city which had been his starting-point
rose before him in the gray air. There he made a brief, strange sojourn ...

A dreary afternoon was already turning into evening as the train pulled into the narrow, smoke-blackened,
queerly familiar train-shed; under the dirty glass roof the thick smoke still gathered into
roundish clumps and floated back and forth in long ragged ribbons, just as when Tonio Kröger
rode away with nothing but mockery in his heart.--He attended to his baggage, ordered it brought
to the hotel, and left the station.

Those were the black, immoderately broad and high two-horse cabs of the city, standing outside
in a row. He did not take one; he merely looked at them as he looked at everything: the narrow
gables and pointed turrets that greeted him across the nearest roofs, the fair-haired, idly
awkward people round about him, with their broad yet rapid speech--and a nervous laughter rose
up in him that was secretly allied to sobbing.--He went on foot, quite slowly, with the incessant
pressure of the moist wind on his face, over the bridge on whose balustrade mythological figures
stood, and then along the harbor for some distance.

Good heavens, how tiny and crooked the whole place seemed! Had these narrow gable-fringed streets
risen to the town in such comical steepness through all those years? The smoke-stacks and masts
of the ships swayed gently in the breeze and in the twilight on the murky river. Should he
go up yonder street, the one on which stood the house that he had in mind? No, tomorrow. He
was so sleepy now. His head was heavy from the journey, and slow, nebulous thoughts crossed
his mind.

At times, during these thirteen years, when his stomach was out of order, he had dreamed that
he was again at home in the echoing old house on the slanting street, and that his father was
there again too, chiding him severely because of his degenerate mode of life,--which censure
he regularly regarded as quite proper. And this present moment now had nothing to distinguish
it from one of those illusory and unrending dream-fabrics, in which one may ask himself whether
this be hallucination or reality, and of necessity and with deep conviction declare for the
latter, only to wake up after all ... He walked through the sparsely peopled, draughty streets,
lowering his head against the wind, and moved like a somnambulist in the direction of the hotel,
the best in the city, where he intended to spend the night. A bow-legged man, carrying a pole
surmounted by a flame, walked along before him with a rocking sailor's gait, lighting the gas-lamps.

How did he feel? What was all this that glowed so darkly and painfully under the ashes of his
weariness, without becoming a clear flame? Hush, hush, and not a word! No words! Fain would
he have spent a long time walking thus in the wind through the dim, dreamily familiar streets.
But everything was so cramped and so close together. It took no time to reach one's goal.

In the upper city there were arc-lights and they were just beginning to glow. There was the
hotel, and there were the two black lions before it that had frightened him so as a child.
They still looked at each other just as if they were about to sneeze; but they seemed to have
grown much smaller since that day.--Tonio Kröger passed between them.

As he came on foot, he was received without much ceremony. The porter and a very elegant gentleman
in black who received the guests, and who was forever thrusting either cuff back into its sleeve
with his little finger, surveyed him searchingly and critically from his crown to his boots
in the visible effort to make something of a social diagnosis of him, to determine his civil
and religious classification, and to assign to him some definite place in their esteem, without,
however, being able to reach a satisfying result; wherefore they resolved upon a moderate politeness.
A waiter, a mild-mannered creature with light blond strips of side-whiskers, a dress-coat shiny
with age-, and rosettes on his noiseless shoes, led him up two flights to a room furnished
neatly and patriarchally, whose window opened up in the twilight a picturesque and medieval
prospect of courts, gables, and the bizarre masses of the church near which the hotel stood.
Tonio Kröger stood awhile at this window; then he seated himself with folded arms on the rambling
sofa, drew his eyebrows together, and whistled to himself.

Lights were brought, and his baggage came. At the same time the mild-mannered waiter laid the
registry blank on the table, and Tonio Kröger dashed off on it with head on one side something
that looked like name, station, and birth-place. Hereupon he ordered something for supper,
and continued to look into space from his sofa-corner. When the food stood before him, he left
it untouched for a long time, but finally took a few bites and then walked up and down his
room for an hour, standing still from time to time and shutting his eyes. Then he undressed
with sluggish movements and went to bed. He slept long, amid confused dreams full of strange
yearning.--

When he awoke, he saw his room filled with bright daylight. In perplexed haste he bethought
himself where he was, and got up to open the curtains. The late summer blue of the sky, already
a trifle pale, was traversed by thin cloud strips, ragged out by the wind; but the sun was
shining above his native city.

He took more pains than usual with his toilet, washed and shaved with great care, and made
himself as fresh and neat as if he were planning to make a call in some aristocratic, highly
proper house, where it was necessary to make a smart and irreproachable impression; and during
the manipulations of dressing he listened to the alarmed throbbing of his heart.

How bright it was outside. He would have felt more comfortable if there had been twilight in
the streets, as when he came; but now he was to walk through the bright sunshine under the
people's eyes. Would he hit upon acquaintances, he stopped and questioned, and have to give
an account of how he had spent these thirteen years? No, thank the Lord, no one would know
him any more, and those who remembered him would not recognize him, for he had really altered
a little in the meantime. He regarded himself attentively in the mirror, and suddenly felt
more secure behind his mask, behind his prematurely work-lined face, which was older than his
years ... He sent for breakfast and then went out, out through the vestibule past the appraising
glances of the porter and the elegant gentleman in black, out into the open between the two lions.

Whither was he going! He hardly knew. It was like yesterday. Scarcely did he again see himself
surrounded by this queerly venerable and eternally familiar mixture of gables, turrets, arcades,
and fountains, scarcely did he again feel on his face the pressure of the wind, the strong
wind that brought with it a delicate and pungent aroma from far-away dreams, than something
like a veil, a fabric of fog, enveloped his senses ... The muscles of his face relaxed; and
with quieted eyes he contemplated men and things. Perhaps he would awake none the less on that
street corner yonder ...

Whither was he going? It seemed to him as if the direction he took had some connection with
his sad and strangely penitent dreams by night ... To the market he went, through the vaulted
arches of the city hall, where butchers weighed their wares with blood-stained hands, and to
the market-place, where the high, pointed, and variegated Gothic fountain stood. There he stood
still before a house, a narrow, simple house, like many others, with an openwork gable of curving
lines, and became lost in contemplation of it. He read the name-plate on the door, and let
his eyes rest a while on each window. Then he turned slowly away.

Whither was he going? Homeward. But he chose a roundabout way, taking a walk out beyond the
gate, for there was plenty of time. He went across the Mill Rampart and the Holsten Rampart,
holding his hat firmly against the wind that creaked and groaned in the trees. But he came
to a stop on the square with the lindens before one of the pretty villas that stood there,
looked long into the garden and up at the windows, and finally took a notion to swing the garden-gate
back and forth and make the hinges screech.

Closed in by the neighboring houses which its gable overtopped, it stood there gray and forbidding
as for these three hundred years past, and Tonio Kröger read the pious legend that was above
the door in half effaced letters. Then he drew a deep breath and went in.

His heart beat fearfully, for he half expected his father might issue from one of the doors
on the ground floor past which he was walking, his father in office coat and with a pen behind
his ear, who would stop him and sternly call him to account for his extravagant life,--which
censure he would have found quite proper. But he got past the doors unmolested. The storm door
was not shut, but only pulled to, which he considered censurable, while at the same time he
felt as in certain light dreams, when hindrances vanish of themselves before us and we press
forward unchecked, favored by wonderful good fortune ... The spacious hall, paved with large
square slabs of stone, echoed to his tread. Opposite the kitchen, where all was still, the
strange, clumsy, but neatly varnished partition-rooms jutted out from the wall at a considerable
height; these were the servants' rooms, which could only be reached by a sort of open staircase
from the hall floor. But the great wardrobes and the carved chest that used to stand here were
gone ... The son of the house set foot upon the mighty staircase and rested his hand upon the
white enameled, fretwork banister, lifting it, however, at each step and then gently dropping
it again at the next one, as if he were timidly trying to see whether his former familiarity
with this respectable old banister could be restored ... On the first landing, before the entrance
to the so-called "intermediate story," he stood still. A white door-plate was fastened to the
door, and on it could be read in black letters: People's Library.

People's Library? thought Tonio Kröger, for it seemed to him that neither the people nor literature
had any business here. He knocked on the door, heard "Come in," and obeyed. With gloomy curiosity
he looked in upon a most unseemly alteration.

The apartment was three rooms deep, and the connecting doors were open. The walls were covered
almost to the top with books in uniform bindings, which stood in long rows on dark shelves.
In each room a needy looking individual sat writing behind a sort of counter. Two of them merely
turned their heads toward Tonio Kröger, but the first one stood up hastily, rested both hands
on the table before him, thrust his head forward, pursed his lips, drew up his eyebrows, and
looked at the visitor with rapidly winking eyes ...

"Excuse me," said Tonio Kröger, without turning his eyes from the many books. "I am a stranger
here, and am taking a look at the city. So this is the People's Library? Would you permit me
to look into the collection a little?"

"Willingly," said the official, winking still more vehemently ...

"Certainly, that is every one's privilege. Please look around ... Should you care for a catalogue?"

"Thank you," said Tonio Kröger, "I can easily find my bearings." And he began to walk slowly
along the walls, pretending to be reading the titles on the backs of the books. Finally he
took out a volume, opened it, and went to the window with it.

This had been the breakfast room. Here they had breakfasted, not upstairs in the great dining-room,
where white gods stood out on the blue wall-paper ... That room had served as a bed-chamber.
His father's mother had died there in bitter anguish, old as she was, for she was a pleasure-loving
woman of the world and clung to life. And later his father too had breathed his last sigh there,
the tall, correct, somewhat melancholy and meditative gentleman with the wild-flower in his
button-hole ... Tonio had sat with hot eyes at the foot of his death-bed, sincerely and completely
given over to a strong, mute feeling, one of love and pain. And his mother too had knelt by
the bed, his beautiful, passionate mother, quite dissolved in hot tears; whereupon she had
strayed off to far-away lands with the southern artist ... But back there, that smaller third
room, now also completely filled with books over which a needy-looking individual kept watch,
had been his own for many years. Thither he had returned after school, or after such a walk
as he had just taken; against that wall his table had stood, in whose drawer he had treasured
his first intimate and clumsy verses ... The walnut-tree ... A piercing sadness quivered through
him. He looked sidewise through the window. The garden lay waste, but the old walnut-tree stood
in its place, heavily creaking and rustling in the wind. And Tonio Kröger let his eyes rove
back upon the book he held in his hands, a distinguished poetic work that he knew well. He
looked down upon these black lines and sentence-groups, followed for a space the skilful flow
of the text, watching it rise in creative passion to a fine point and effect and then break
off with equal effect ...

Yes, that is good work, he said, and put the volume back and turned away. Then he saw that
the official was still standing, winking his eyes with an expression of mingled zeal and pensive
distrust.

"An excellent collection, I see," said Tonio Kröger. "I have already gained a general idea
of it. I am much indebted to you. Good day." With that he went out of the door; but it was
a doubtful exit, and he clearly felt that the official, full of disquiet at this visit, would
keep on standing and winking for a quarter of an hour.

He felt no inclination to penetrate farther. He had been at home. Upstairs in the great rooms
beyond the colonnade there were strangers living, he could see; for the head of the stairs
was shut off by a glass door which had not formerly been there, and some name-plate or other
was on it. He went away, down the stairs and over the echoing hall, and left his father's house.
In one corner of a restaurant he consumed a heavy, hearty meal, his thoughts ever turned inward,
and then he returned to the hotel.

"I am through," he said to the elegant gentleman in black. "I leave this afternoon." And he
sent for his bill, also the carriage that was to take him to the harbor, to the steamer for
Copenhagen. Then he went up to his room and sat down at the table, sat quietly erect, resting
his cheek on his hand and looking at the table with unseeing eyes. Later on he paid his bill
and got his effects ready. At the designated time the carriage was announced, and Tonio Kröger
went down-stairs in readiness to go.

Below, at the foot of the stairs, the elegant gentleman in black was waiting for him.

"Your pardon," he said, thrusting back either cuff into its sleeve with the little finger ...
"Excuse me, sir, that we must still claim a minute of your time. Mr. Seehaase, the owner of
the hotel, begs for a very brief conversation with you. A mere formality ... He is back yonder
... Will you have the goodness to go with me ... It is only Mr. Seehaase, the owner of the hotel."

And he led Tonio Kröger with gestures of invitation toward the back part of the vestibule.
There the owner of the hotel was indeed standing. Tonio Kröger knew him by sight from his youth.
He was short, fat, and bow-legged. His cropped side-whiskers had grown white; but he still
wore a Tuxedo of wide cut and in addition a small green-embroidered velvet cap. Nor was he
alone. Near him, at a small writing-desk fastened to the wall, stood a helmeted policeman,
whose gloved right hand rested on a curiously bescribbled piece of paper that lay before him
on the desk, and whose honest soldier-face looked at Tonio Kröger as if he expected that the
latter must sink into the ground at sight of him.

Tonio Kröger looked from one to the other and applied himself to waiting.

"You come from Munich?" asked the policeman at last with a good-natured and ponderous voice.

Tonio Kröger assented.

"You are traveling to Copenhagen?"

"Yes, I am on the way to a Danish seashore resort."

"Seashore?--Well, you must show your papers," said the policeman, uttering the last word with
particular satisfaction.

"Papers ..." He had no papers. He drew out his pocketbook and looked into it; but besides some
bills there was nothing in it but the proof-sheets of a story, which he had intended to correct
at his journey's end. He was not fond of dealings with officials and had never had a passport
filled out ...

"I am sorry," he said, "but I have no papers with me."

"Oh," said the policeman ... "None at all?--What is your name?"

Tonio Kröger answered him.

"Is that true?" said the policeman, straightening up and suddenly opening his nostrils as far
as he could ...

"Quite true," answered Tonio Kröger.

"And what are you?"

Tonio Kröger swallowed and named his calling with firm voice.--Mr. Seehaase raised his head
and looked curiously up into his face.

"Hm," said the policeman. "And you claim not to be identical with an individial named----"
He said "individial" and then spelled from the curiously bescribbled piece of paper a most
puzzling and romantic name, which seemed to have been freakishly composed of the sounds of
various languages and which Tonio Kröger had forgotten the next moment. "--Who," he continued,
"of unknown parentage and uncertain competence, is being sought by the Munich police on account
of various swindles and other crimes, and is probably trying to flee to Denmark?"

"I do more than claim," said Tonio Kröger, making a nervous movement with his shoulders.--This
created a certain impression.

"What? Oh yes, quite so," said the officer. "But that you shouldn't be able to show any papers
at all."

Now Mr. Seehaase interposed conciliatingly.

"The whole thing is only a formality," he said, "nothing more. You must reflect that the official
is only doing his duty. If you can identify yourself in any way ... Any document ..."

All were silent. No, he had no desire for that. And did not these men of the civic order really
have a little right on their side? To a certain extent he was quite in agreement with them
... He shrugged his shoulders and remained silent.

"What is that you have there?" asked the officer. "There in that portfoly?"

"Here? Nothing. Proof-sheets," answered Tonio Kröger.

"Proof-sheets? How so? Let me see a minute."

And Tonio Kröger handed them over to him. The policeman spread them out on the desk and began
to read them. Mr. Seehaase also stepped closer and participated in the reading. Tonio Kröger
looked over their shoulders to see where they were reading. It was a good passage, a point
and effect which he had worked out superbly. He was content with himself.

"You see," he said. "There stands my name. I wrote this, and now it is being published, you
understand."

"Well, that is sufficient," said Mr. Seehaase determinedly, and lie gathered up the sheets,
folded them, and returned them. "That must suffice, Peterson," he repeated brusquely, furtively
closing his eyes and shaking his head as a sign to desist. "We must not detain the gentleman
longer. The carriage is waiting. I earnestly beg you to excuse the little inconvenience, sir.
The official has of course only done his duty, but I told him at once that he was on the wrong
scent ..."

Did you? thought Tonio Kröger.

The officer did not seem to agree entirely; he made some objection about "individial" and "papers."
But Mr. Seehaase led his guest back through the vestibule amid repeated expressions of regret,
escorted him out between the two lions to his carriage, and closed the carriage door himself
with attestations of his esteem. And then the ridiculously broad and high cab rolled down the
steep streets to the harbor, rocking, rattling, and rumbling ...

This was Tonio Kröger's strange sojourn in his native city.

                                  VII

Night was falling, and the moon was already rising bathed in silvery light, when Tonio Kröger's
ship reached the open sea. He stood by the bowsprit, his mantle shielding him from the steadily
freshening breeze, and looked down into the dark roving and surging of the strong, smooth wave-bodies
below him, as they rocked about each other, met each other with a splash, separated with a
rush in unexpected directions, or suddenly flashed white with foam ...

A swaying, quietly rapturous mood came over him. He had of course been a little depressed because
they had wanted to arrest him at home as a swindler--although to a certain extent he had found
it quite proper. But then after going aboard he had watched, as he and his father had sometimes
done, the loading of the cargo with which the deep hold of the boat was filled, amid cries
of mingled Low German and Danish, and seen them let down not merely bales and boxes, but also
a polar bear and a royal tiger in heavily barred cages, doubtless coming from Hamburg and destined
for some Danish menagerie; and this had diverted him. Then while the boat was gliding along
the river between flat banks he had completely forgotten officer Peterson's interrogatory;
and all that had gone before, his sweet, sad, and regretful dreams during the night, the walk
he had taken, the sight of the walnut-tree,--these had again become powerful in his soul. And
now that the sea opened out he saw from afar the shore on which as a boy he had been privileged
to listen to the summer dreams of the sea; saw the gleam of the light-house and the lights
of the seashore hotel where he had stayed with his parents ... The Baltic! He leaned his head
against the strong salt breeze that came to him free and unchecked, enveloped his ears, and
produced in him a gentle vertigo, a slight stupefaction, in which the recollection of all evil,
of torment and erring ways, of great plans and arduous labors, became lazily and blissfully
submerged. And in the roaring, splashing, foaming, and groaning round about him he fancied
he heard the rustling and creaking of the old walnut-tree, and the screeching of a garden gate
... It grew darker and darker.

"De stars, my gracious, just look at de stars," suddenly remarked in a ponderous sing-song
a voice that seemed to come from inside a barrel. He knew the voice. It belonged to a reddish-blond,
simply dressed man with reddened eyelids and a clammy look, as if he had just taken a bath.
At supper in the cabin he had been Tonio Kröger's neighbor and with hesitant and modest motions
he had taken unto himself astonishing quantities of lobster-omelette. Now he was leaning against
the rail beside his new acquaintance and looking up at the sky, holding his chin with thumb
and forefinger. Without doubt he was in one of those extraordinary and solemnly contemplative
moods in which the barriers between men fall away, in which the heart opens even to strangers,
and the mouth utters things which would otherwise close it in modesty ...

"Look, sir, just look at de stars. Dere dey stand and twinkle, upon my word de whole sky is
full of dem. And now let me ask you, when we look up and reflect dat many of dem are supposed
to be a hundred times bigger dan de eart', how do we feel? We men have invented de telegraph
and de telephone, and so many achievements of modern life, yes, dat we have. But when we look
up dere, den we have to recognize and understand dat after all we're only vermin, miserable
vermin and not'ing else--am I right or wrong, sir? Yes, we are vermin," he answered himself,
and nodded up at the firmament, humble and crushed.

Ouch ... no, he has no literature in him, thought Tonio Kröger. And forthwith something that
he had recently been reading occurred to him, an article by a famous French author on cosmological
and psychological philosophy; it had been very elegant chatter.

He gave the young man something like an answer to his deep-felt remark, and they continued
to talk, leaning over the rail and looking out into the restlessly illuminated, agitated evening.
It turned out that the traveling companion was a young merchant from Hamburg, who was using
his vacation for this pleasure trip ...

"Go and take a little trip," he was saying, "to Copenhagen wit de Dampfoot, I tought, and so
here I am, and so far it's very nice. But dose lobster-omelettes, you know, dat wasn't de ting,
you'll see, for it's going to be a stormy night, de captain said so himself, and wit such an
indigestible supper in your stomach dat's no joke ..."

Tonio Kröger listened to all this complaisant folly with a secretly friendly feeling.

"Yes," he said, "they eat far too much up here anyway. That makes them lazy and melancholy."

"Melancholy?" repeated the young man, looking at him in consternation ... "I suppose you are
a stranger here?" he suddenly inquired ...

"Oh yes, I come from far away," answered Tonio Kröger with a vague and evasive gesture.

"But you are right," said the young man; "God knows you are right about melancholy. I am almost
always melancholy, but especially on such evenings as dis, when de stars are in de sky." And
again he propped up his chin on thumb and forefinger.

He undoubtedly writes verses, thought Tonio Kröger, merchant's verses full of deeply honest
feeling ...

The evening wore on, and the wind had now become so violent that it interfered with conversation.
So they resolved to sleep a little, and wished each other good night.

Tonio Kröger stretched himself out on the narrow bunk in his cabin, but he found no rest. The
strong wind and its pungent aroma had agitated him strangely, and his heart was restless as
if in anxious expectation of something sweet. And the shock to the ship which resulted when
it r slid down a steep wave-slope and the screw raced convulsively out of water, caused him
severe nausea. He dressed again completely and mounted into the open air.

Clouds were racing past the moon. The sea was dancing. There were no round and uniform waves
coming on in order, but as far as one could see, in the pale and flickering light, the sea
was torn up, lashed and stirred into fragments; its flamelike, gigantic tongues licked and
leaped into the air, beside foam-filled abysses it cast up jagged and improbable forms, and
seemed with the force of monstrous arms to hurl the spume in mad playfulness to invisible heights.
The ship had a toilsome journey; crashing, rolling, and groaning it worked its way through
the commotion, and now and again one could hear the polar bear and the tiger, who had suffered
from the high sea, roaring in the hold. A man in an oilskin cape, the hood drawn over his head,
and a lantern buckled about his body, was walking spread-legged up and down the deck, balancing
with difficulty. But there at the stern, bending low over the rail, stood the young man from
Hamburg, taking it very hard indeed. "Good heavens," he said in a hollow and faltering voice,
as he became aware of Tonio Kröger, "just see de tumult of de elements, sir." But then he was
interrupted and turned hastily away.

Tonio Kröger held on to some taut cable and looked out into all this uncontrollable exuberance.
An exultation winged its way upward within him, and it seemed to him powerful enough to drown
out both tempest and flood. A song to the sea, inspired by love, rang out within him. Wild
comrade of my youth's delight, once more our spirits now unite ... But then the poem was at
an end. It was not completed, was not rounded off, not welded calmly into a unified whole.
His heart was alive ...

Long he stood thus; then he stretched out on a bench near the deck-cabin and looked up at the
sky in which the stars were flickering. He even slumbered a little. And when the cold spray
flew into his face, it seemed in his half wakeful state like a caress.

Vertical chalk cliffs, ghostlike in the moonlight, came in sight and drew near; that was the
Island of Moen. And again slumber intervened, interrupted by showers of salt spray which sharply
stung the face and benumbed the features ... When he fully awoke, it was already day, a light-gray,
bracing day, and the green sea was quieter. At breakfast he saw the young merchant again, and
the latter blushed violently, probably for shame at having uttered in the dark such poetic
and disgraceful things, rubbed up his small reddish moustache with all five fingers, and returned
Tonio Kröger's salutation with a curt military greeting, to avoid him anxiously thenceforward.

And Tonio Kröger landed in Denmark. He arrived formally in Copenhagen, gave a tip to every
one who pretended he could lay claim to it, spent three days in tramping the town with his
hotel as a starting-point and carrying his Baedeker open before him, and behaved just like
the better class of strangers who desire to increase their information. He studied the King's
Newmarket with the "horse" in the middle of it, looked respectfully up the pillars of Our Lady's,
stood long before Thorwaldsen's noble and lovely sculpture, climbed the Round Tower, visited
castles, and spent two lively evenings in the Tivoli. But all this was not really what he saw.

On the houses, which frequently had the very look of the old houses of his native city with
their curved and pierced gables, he would see names that were familiar to him from olden times,
which seemed to him to signify something tender and precious, and at the same time included
something like reproach, lament, and longing for things lost. And everywhere, while breathing
in retarded, meditative draughts the moist sea-air, he saw eyes as blue, hair as blond, faces
of just the same type and formation as those he had seen in the strangely grievous and regretful
dreams of the night spent in his native city. It not seldom happened on the open street that
a glance, a ringing word, a peal of laughter would strike his very marrow ...

He could not long endure the gay city. An unrest, sweet and foolish, half recollection and
half expectation, stirred him, together with the desire to lie quietly somewhere along the
shore and not have to play the eagerly observing tourist. So he took ship again and sailed
on a gloomy day (the sea was black) northward up the coast of Seeland to Elsinore. From there
he continued his journey without delay by carriage along the high road for three quarters of
an hour, always a little above the sea, until he stopped at his final and real goal, the little
white summer hotel with green blinds which stood in the midst of a settlement of low cottages,
and whose wooden-roofed tower looked out on the strand and toward the Swedish coast. Here he
got out, took possession of the sunny room that had been kept ready for him, filled book-shelf
and wardrobe with the effects he had brought with him, and prepared to live here a while.

                               VIII

September was already at hand; there were no longer many guests in Aalsgaard. At the meals
in the great timber-ceiled dining-hall on the ground floor, whose high windows opened out upon
the sun-porch and the sea, the hostess always presided, an elderly spinster with white hair,
colorless eyes, delicately pink cheeks, and a quavering, chirping voice, who always tried to
group her red hands to advantage on the white table-cloth. A short-necked old gentleman with
ice-gray sailor's beard and dark-blue face was there, a fish-dealer from the capital, who understood
German. He seemed to be wholly stopped up as to nose, and inclined to apoplexy, for he drew
short, jerky breaths and raised from time to time his beringed forefinger to one of his nostrils,
in order to shut it and procure the other one a little air by means of vigorous snorting. None
the less he paid constant court to the brandy bottle, which stood before him at breakfast as
well as at the other meals. There was no one else except three tall American youths with their
don or tutor, who silently adjusted his glasses and played football with them by day. They
parted their reddish yellow hair in the middle and had long, impassive faces.

"Please, give me the wurst-things there,"[A] the one would say.

[Footnote A: Mr. Mann's English.--TRANSLATOR.]

"That's not wurst, that's schinken," remarked another, and this was the only contribution which
either they or the tutor made to the conversation; for otherwise they sat in silence and drank
hot water.

Tonio Kröger would have desired no other sort of company at table. He enjoyed his peace, listened
to the Danish gutturals and the bright and dark vowels, when the fish-dealer and the hostess
occasionally conversed together, exchanged now and then with the former some simple remark
about the barometer, and would then get up to pass through the verandah and down on to the
shore again, where he had already spent long morning hours.

Sometimes it was quiet and summerlike there. The sea would rest lazily and smoothly, in blue,
bottle-green, and reddish streaks, with silvery, glittering reflections playing over it, while
the seaweed dried into hay in the sunshine, and the jelly-fish lay there and evaporated. It
smelled a little of decay and also of the pitch of the fishing-boat against which Tonio Kröger
leaned his back as he sat on the sand, turning so as to have the open horizon and not the Swedish
coast before his eyes; but the light breath of the sea floated pure and fresh over everything.

And gray, stormy days came. The waves bowed their heads like steers lowering their horns to
butt, and rushed furiously against the strand, which was flooded to a great height and covered
with shining sea-grass, shells, and driftwood. Between the long lines of wave-crests the pale
green, foam-flecked troughs extended under the lowering sky; but yonder where the sun hung
behind the clouds, a whitish velvet sheen lay on the waters.

Tonio Kröger stood enveloped by wind and clamor, lost in this eternal, ponderous, deafening
roar that he loved so much. If he turned and went away, on a sudden it seemed quite still and
warm about him. But at his back, he knew, was the sea; it called him, enticed him, spoke to
him. And he would smile.

He would go inland through the solitude along meadow paths, and soon birch woods would receive
him, extending far over the rolling country. He would sit down in the moss and lean against
a tree from which he could see a patch of ocean between the trunks. At times the wind would
carry to him the noise of the surf, like distant boards falling on each other. The caw of crows
above the treetops, hoarse, desolate, forlorn ... He had a book on his knees, but he read not
a line in it. He was enjoying a deep oblivion, a floating in perfect freedom over space and
time; and only occasionally did it seem as if some pain quivered through his heart, a short,
piercing feeling of longing or regret, which he was too lazy and too absorbed to question as
to its name and origin.

So passed many a day; he could not have said how many, and had no desire to know. But then
came a day when something happened; happened while the sun stood in the sky and people were
present, and Tonio Kröger was not even especially astonished at it.

The very beginning of this day took a festive and delightful form. Tonio Kröger awoke very
early and quite suddenly, started up from sleep with a subtle and vague fear, and thought he
was looking upon a miracle, into some enchanted, fairy-like illumination. His room, with a
glass door and a balcony looking out on the Sound, and divided by a thin white gauze curtain
into living-room and bedroom, was papered in delicate colors and furnished with light, bright
articles, so that it always made a cheerful, sunny impression. But now his sleep-drunk eyes
saw an unearthly transfiguration and illumination before him, saw his room immersed to the
farthest corner in an unspeakably lovely, hazy rose-glow, which gilded walls and furnishings
and caused the gauze curtain to gleam with a mild ruddy light ... For a long time Tonio Kröger
did not understand what was happening. But when he stood at the glass door and looked out,
he saw that it was the rising sun.

For several days it had been dark and rainy; but now the sky, like a taut canopy of pale-blue
silk, rose in shimmering purity over sea and land, and the sun's disk, beflecked and surrounded
by cloud-strips shot with red and gold, was rising impressively out of the sea, which with
its flickering ripples seemed to quiver and to glow beneath it ... So the day began, and in
bewildered happiness Tonio Kröger flung himself into his clothes, breakfasted downstairs on
the verandah before any one else, swam some distance out into the Sound from the little wooden
bath-house, and then walked for an hour along the shore. When he returned, several wagons that
looked like omnibuses were stopping before the hotel, and from the dining-room he could see
that not only in the adjoining living-room, where the piano stood, but also on the verandah
and the terrace in front of it, a great company of people, dressed in provincial style, were
sitting at round tables and consuming beer and sandwiches amid lively conversation. There were
whole families of old and young people, and even a few children.

At the second breakfast (the table was loaded down with cold viands, smoked, salted, and baked)
Tonio Kröger inquired what was going on.

"Guests," said the fish-dealer. "Picnickers and dancers from Elsinore. Aye, God help us, we
shan't be able to sleep this night. There will be dancing, dancing and music, and it is to
be feared that it will last a long time. It is a family gathering, picnic and reunion at once,
in short a subscription dance or something of the sort, and they are going to enjoy the fine
day. They have come by boat and wagon, and now they are lunching. Later they will go on across
country, but in the evening they will come back, and then there will be dancing in the hall
here. Yes, damn it and curse it, we shan't close an eye ..."

"That will be a nice change," said Tonio Kröger.

Hereupon nothing further was said for some time. The hostess grouped her red fingers, the fish-dealer
blew through his right nostril in order to get a little air, and the Americans drank hot water
and pulled long faces over it.

Then on a sudden this happened: Hans Hansen and Ingeborg Holm went through the hall.--

Tonio Kröger, comfortably weary after his bath and his rapid walk, was leaning back in his
chair, eating smoked salmon on toast; he sat facing the verandah and the sea. And suddenly
the door opened and the two entered hand in hand--sauntering and without haste. Ingeborg, the
fair-haired Inga, was dressed in bright colors, as she was wont to be in M. Knaak's dancing
class. The light, flowered dress only reached to her ankles, and about her shoulders she wore
a broad, V-shaped fichu of white tulle, leaving her soft, supple throat free. Her hat hung
on one arm by its knotted ribbons. She was perhaps a little less grown-up than of old, simply
wearing her wonderful braid wound about her head; but Hans Hansen looked as he always did.
He had on his seaman's jacket with the gold buttons, over which the broad blue collar lay on
shoulders and back; the sailor's cap with the short ribbons he was holding in one hand, swinging
it carelessly back and forth. Ingeborg kept her elongated eyes cast down, perhaps a little
embarrassed by the gaze of the breakfasters. But Hans Hansen turned his head squarely toward
the table, as if defying the world, and mustered with his steel-blue eyes one face after another,
challengingly and as it were contemptuously; he even dropped Ingeborg's hand and swung his
cap back and forth more vehemently, to show what sort of a man he was. So the couple walked
past Tonio Kröger's eyes, with the quiet blue sea as a background, traversed the entire length
of the hall, and vanished through the opposite door into the music-room.

This took place at half past eleven, and while the regular guests were still at their meal,
the company in the adjoining room and on the verandah broke up and left the hotel by the side
entrance, without any one having set foot in the dining-room. They could be heard climbing
into the wagons outside amid jest and laughter, and one conveyance after the other crunchingly
got under way and rolled off along the high road ...

"So they are coming back?" asked Tonio Kröger.

"That they are," said the fish-dealer. "And God help us. They have ordered music, you must
know, and I sleep right over the hall."

"That will be a nice change," repeated Tonio Kröger. Then he stood up and went out.

He spent the day as he had spent the others, on the shore and in the woods, holding a book
in his lap and blinking at the sun. He entertained only one idea: that they would come back
and have a dance in the hall, as the fish-dealer had promised; and he did nothing but look
forward to this with an anxious and sweet joy such as he had not experienced for many long,
dead years. Once, by some chain of ideas, he had a fleeting recollection of a distant acquaintance,
of Adalbert the novelist, who knew what he wanted and had gone to the café to escape the spring.
And he shrugged his shoulders at him ...

Dinner was served earlier than usual, and supper also was eaten earlier than otherwise and
in the music-room, because preparations for the ball were already going on in the hall: in
such a festive manner was everything brought into disorder. Then, after it had grown dark and
Tonio Kröger was sitting in his room, there was noise and bustle again on the road and in the
house. The picnickers were returning; yes, and from the direction of Elsinore new guests came
by bicycle and carriage, and already one could hear in the room below a fiddle tuning up and
a clarinet executing nasal runs by way of practice ... Everything promised to make it a brilliant
ball.

Now the little orchestra opened up with a march: the muffled sounds came up in steady rhythm:
they were opening the dance with a polonaise. Tonio Kröger sat still awhile and listened. But
when he heard the march-time change to a waltz, he got up and glided noiselessly out of his room.

From the corridor outside his room one could go by a stairway to the side-entrance of the hotel,
and from there to the sun-porch without entering a room. He took this course, softly and stealthily,
as if treading forbidden paths, and cautiously felt his way through the darkness, irresistibly
attracted by this stupid, blissfully swaying music, whose tones were already reaching his ear
clear and unmuffled.

The verandah was empty and unlighted, but the glass door to the hall, where the two great oil
lamps were shining brightly before their polished reflectors, stood open. Thither he crept
on tiptoe, and the enjoyment of stealthily standing here in the dark and watching unseen those
who were dancing in the light made his flesh tingle. Hastily and eagerly he sent his glances
in search of that one couple ...

The merriment of the festivity already seemed to be full-blown, although the ball had begun
scarcely a half hour before; but of course they had been warm and excited when they arrived,
after spending the entire day together, carefree and happy. In the music-room, which Tonio
Kröger could see if he ventured to step forward a little, several elderly gentlemen had gathered
to smoke and drink over their cards; while others were sitting beside their spouses on the
plush chairs in the foreground and along the walls, looking on at the dancing. They held their
hands propped on their spread knees, and blew out their cheeks with a well-to-do air, while
the mothers, with bonnets on their parted hair, hands folded on their stomachs, and head on
one side, looked into the swarm of young people. A platform had been erected against one of
the long side walls, and here the musicians were doing their best. There was even a trumpet,
which pealed with a certain hesitant cautiousness, as if afraid of its own voice, but which
none the less constantly broke and gave out ... Whirling and surging the couples moved about
each other, while others promenaded arm in arm. They were not in gala dress, but only as on
a summer afternoon spent in the open: the cavaliers in suits of provincial cut, which one could
see had been spared all week, and the young girls in light, bright dresses with bouquets of
wild flowers on their bodices. A few children were in the hall, too, and they danced together
child-fashion, not even stopping with the music. A long-legged person in a swallow-tailed coat,
a provincial lion, with monocle and curled hair, mail clerk or something like it, looking like
the comic figure of a Danish novel in the flesh, seemed to be the manager of the festivities
and director of the ball. Precipitate, perspiring, and with his whole soul in his task, he
was everywhere at once; he "sashayed" officiously through the hall, artfully treading on the
balls of his feet, which were shod with shining, pointed military boots, and setting them down
crosswise in some intricate fashion, swung his arms in the air, made arrangements, called for
music, clapped his hands,--and through all this the ribbons of the great, gay-colored bow which
was fastened to his shoulder in token of his dignity, and toward which he occasionally turned
his head lovingly, fluttered in the air behind him.

Yes, they were there, those two that had passed Tonio Kröger that day in the sunlight; he saw
them again and felt a joyful shock as he perceived them both almost at once. Here stood Hans
Hansen, quite close to him, next to the door; with feet spread and a little bent forward he
was deliberately consuming a large piece of Madeira cake, hollowing his hand under his chin
to catch the crumbs. And there against the wall sat Ingeborg Holm, fair-haired Inga, and the
mail clerk just "sashaying" up to her to ask her for a dance with a choice gesture, consisting
in laying one hand on his back and thrusting the other into his bosom; but she shook her head
and motioned that she was too much out of breath and must rest a little, whereupon he sat down
at her side.

Tonio Kröger looked at the two for whom he had suffered love of yore--Hans and Ingeborg.

Had I forgotten you? he asked. No, never! Not you, Hans, nor you, blond Inga. It was you for
whom I worked, and when I heard applause, I secretly looked about me to see if you had any
part in it ... Have you now read Don Carlos, Hans Hansen, as you promised me at your garden
gate? Do not do so, I no longer ask it of you. What is the king to you, weeping because he
is lonely? You must not make your bright eyes dull and dream-dimmed by staring into verses
and melancholy ... To be like you! To begin once more, grow up like you, honest, happy, and
simple, regular, orderly, and in agreement with God and the world, to be loved by the innocent
and happy, to take you to wife, Ingeborg Holm, and have a son like you, Hans Hansen,--to live,
love, and laud in blessed prosaic bliss, free from the curse of knowledge and of creative torment!...
Begin again? But it would do no good. It would turn out the same way again,--everything would
be just as it has been this time. For some go astray of necessity, because there, is absolutely
no right way for them.

Now the music stopped, there was an intermission, and refreshments were served. The mail clerk
hurried about in person with a tea-tray of herring salad, serving the ladies; but before Ingeborg
Holm he actually dropped on one knee as he offered her the dish, making her blush for joy.

The people in the hall now began to be aware of the spectator in the doorway, after all, and
strange, searching glances came upon him from pretty, heated faces; but he stood his ground.
Ingeborg and Hans, too, passed their eyes over him almost at the same moment, with that complete
indifference which almost has the appearance of contempt. Suddenly, however, he became conscious
that from somewhere a glance had reached him and was resting on him ... He turned his head,
and at once his eyes met the ones he had felt. A girl stood not far from him, with a pale,
narrow, delicate face which he had noticed before. She had not danced much, the cavaliers had
not paid much attention to her, and he had seen her sitting alone against the wall with bitterly
closed lips. And she stood alone now, too. She wore a bright, filmy dress, like the others,
but under the diaphanous goods her bare shoulders looked sharp and scanty, and the lean neck
went down so far between these pitiful shoulders that the quiet girl seemed almost a little
deformed. She held her hands in their thin short gloves in front of her flat breast so that
the fingertips barely touched. With lowered head she looked up at Tonio Kröger out of black,
swimming eyes. He turned away ...

Here stood Hans and Ingeborg quite close to him. He had sat down beside her,--she was perhaps
his sister,--and surrounded by other red-cheeked children of men they ate and drank, chattered
merrily, called out teasing remarks to each other with ringing voices, and let their laughter
peal out. Could he not approach them a little? Could he not direct to him or her a jest that
would come to his mind, and that they must at least answer with a smile? It would make him
happy, he longed for it; he would then return more contentedly to his room, with the consciousness
of having established some little community with them. He thought out what he might say; but
he did not find the courage to say it. And then too it was as of old: they would not understand
him, would listen with disapproval to what he could say. For their language was not his language.

Now the dance was to begin again, it seemed. The mail clerk revealed an all-embracing activity.
He hurried around and invited every one to engage partners, pushed and cleared away chairs
and glasses with the aid of the waiter, gave orders to the musicians, and took some awkward
ones, who did not know where to go, by the shoulders and pushed them along before him. What
were they going to do? Groups of eight couples were forming sets ... A terrible memory made
Tonio Kröger blush. They were dancing the quadrille.

The music began, and the couples bowed and marched past each other. The mail clerk called the
figures, and he did so, by heaven, in French, and brought out the nasal sounds in an incomparably
distinguished fashion. Ingeborg Holm was dancing right in front of Tonio Kröger, in the set
just next to the door. She moved back and forth in front of him, forward and backward, gliding
and whirling; a perfume that came from her hair or the dainty stuff of her dress reached him
occasionally, and he shut his eyes with a feeling that had been so familiar to him all his
life, whose aroma and bitter stimulus he had faintly discerned all these last days, and that
now filled him again completely with its sweet distress. What was it? Longing? Tenderness?
Envy, self-contempt?... Moulinet des dames! Did you laugh, blond Inga, did you laugh at me
when I danced moulinet and made such a pitiable fool of myself? And would you laugh today,
now that I have after all become something like a famous man? Yes, you would, and you would
have thrice as much right as before! And if I, all by myself, had created the Nine Symphonies,
The World as Will and Idea, and the Last Judgment--still you would be eternally justified in
laughing ... He looked at her, and a line occurred to him which he had long forgotten, and
yet was so familiar and so akin to him: "I fain would sleep, but thou must dance." He knew
so well the deep, clumsy, melancholy Scandinavian awkwardness of feeling that was expressed
by it. To sleep ... To long to live simply and wholly for the feeling that sweetly and indolently
satisfies itself, without the obligation of becoming a deed and a dance--and nevertheless to
dance, to have to execute nimbly and with presence of mind the hard, hard and dangerous knife-dance
of art, without ever quite forgetting the humiliating contradiction that lay in having to dance
while one was in love ...

All at once the whole throng broke into mad and exuberant motion. The sets had broken up, and
the dancers shot around jumping and gliding: the quadrille was ending with a galop. The couples
flew past Tonio Kröger to the furious beat of the music, chasséing, hurrying, overtaking each
other, with quick, breathless laughter. One couple came along, carried away by the universal
race, whirling and whizzing forward. The girl had a delicate, pale face and lean, very high
shoulders. And suddenly, close before him, there was a stumbling, sliding, and falling ...
The pale girl fell down. She fell so heavily and violently that it almost looked dangerous,
and her cavalier fell with her. The latter must have hurt himself so painfully that he forgot
his partner altogether, for he began amid grimaces to rub his knees with his hands, without
getting off the floor; and the girl, seemingly quite stunned by the fall, still lay on the
floor. Now Tonio Kröger stepped forward, grasped her gently by the arms, and lifted her up.
Exhausted, confused, and unhappy, she looked up at him, and suddenly her delicate face was
suffused with a faint flush.

"Tak! O, mange Tak!" (Thanks, Oh, many thanks), she said, and looked up at him with dark, swimming
eyes.

"You should not dance any more," he said gently. Then he looked around at them once more, at
Hans and Ingeborg, and went out, leaving the verandah and the dance, and going up to his room.

He was intoxicated by the festivities in which he had had no part, and weary with jealousy.
It had been like long ago, just like long ago. With heated face he had stood in a dark spot,
full of grief on your account, ye blond ones, happy and full of life, and then had gone away
lonely. Some one ought to come now. Ingeborg ought to come now, ought to notice that he was
gone, follow him secretly, lay her hand on his shoulder and say: Come in and join us. Be happy!
I love you ... But she came not at all. Such things did not happen. Yes, it was just like those
days, and he was happy as in those days. For his heart was alive. But what had there been during
all the time in which he had become what he now was?--Stupefaction; desolation; ice; and intellect.
And art!...

He undressed, lay down to rest, and put out the light. He whispered two names into the pillow,
these few chaste Norse syllables which designated for him the real and original type of his
love, suffering, and happiness, which meant life, simple and intimate emotion, home. He looked
back upon the years elapsed from that time to this. He thought of the wild adventures his senses,
nerves, and intellect had gone through, saw himself devoured by irony and brilliance, made
stagnant and lame by knowledge, half worn out by the fevers and frosts of creative work, unstable
and in torments of conscience between crass extremes, cast back and forth between sanctity
and passion, exquisite, impoverished, exhausted by frigid and artificially selected exaltations,
astray, laid waste, tortured, diseased--and he sobbed with repentance and homesickness.

About him it was quiet and dark. But from below the sweet, trivial waltz time of life came
up to him muffled and swaying.

                                   IX

Tonio Kröger sat in the North and wrote to Lisaveta Ivanovna, his friend, as he had promised.

Dear Lisaveta, down yonder in Arcadia, whither I shall soon return, he wrote. Here, then, is
something like a letter, but it will probably disappoint you, for I am thinking of keeping
it somewhat general. Not as if I had nothing to tell, or had not had this or that experience
on my journey. At home, in my native town, they were actually going to arrest me ... but of
that you shall hear by word of mouth. Now I frequently have days on which I prefer making some
good general observations to telling stories.

I wonder if you still remember, Lisaveta, that you once called me a commoner, a commoner astray.
You called me so at a time when I was confessing my love for that which I call Life, being
led on to it by other confessions which I had allowed to escape me; and I ask myself whether
you knew how closely you struck the truth in calling me so, how nearly my commonership and
my love for "life" are one and the same thing. This journey has given me occasion to think
about it ...

My father, you know, was of a Norse temperament: reflective, thorough, Puritanically correct,
and inclined to melancholy; my mother of nondescript exotic blood, beautiful, sensual, naïve,
at once slovenly and passionate, and of an impulsive and unprincipled mind. Quite without doubt
this was a mixture which involved extraordinary possibilities, and extraordinary dangers. What
came of it was this: a commoner who lost his way into art, a Bohemian homesick for a model
nursery, an artist with a bad conscience. For it is of course my bourgeois conscience which
makes me see in all artistry, in all unusualness and all genius something deeply ambiguous,
deeply dubious, deeply disreputable, and which fills me with this lovelorn weakness for the
simple, candid, and agreeably normal, for the decent and mediocre.

I stand between two worlds, am at home in neither, and in consequence have rather a hard time
of it. You artists call me a commoner, and commoners feel tempted to arrest me ... I do not
know which wounds me more bitterly. Commoners are stupid; but you worshippers of beauty who
call me phlegmatic and without yearning, ought to reflect that there is an artistry so deep,
so primordial and elemental, that no yearning seems to it sweeter and more worthy of tasting
than that for the raptures of commonplaceness.

I admire the proud and cold who go adventuring on the paths of great and demoniac beauty, and
scorn "man"--but I do not envy them. For if anything is capable of making a poet out of a man
of letters, it is this plebeian love of mine for the human, living, and commonplace. All warmth,
all goodness, all humor is born of it, and it almost seems to me as if it were that love itself,
of which it is written that a man might speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and yet
without it be no more than sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal.

What I have done is nothing, not much--as good as nothing. I shall do better things, Lisaveta--this
is a promise. While I am writing, the sea's roar is coming up to me, and I close my eyes. I
am looking into an unborn and shapeless world that longs to be called to life and order, I
am looking into a throng of phantoms of human forms which beckon me to conjure them and set
them free: some of them tragic, some of them ridiculous, and some that are both at once--and
to these I am very devoted. But my deepest and most secret love belongs to the blond and blue-eyed,
the bright-spirited living ones, the happy, amiable, and commonplace.

Do not speak lightly of this love, Lisaveta; it is good and fruitful. When he sees fit to open
his head and grumble about the hard times and the taxes, his words are heeded, and the small
fry go about the next day telling how Harlanger, or whatever his name is, has spoken his mind
for once.

Whoso has five horses or less is a farmer, and he grumbles too. But it does not have the same
weight, and is not worth spreading.

But whoso has no horses, and makes a pair of lean oxen draw his plow, is a cotter and must
hold his tongue. In the tavern, in the town meeting, and everywhere. His opinion is worthless,
and no regular farmer pays any attention to the poor beggar.

The professor of the Cobbler-Sebastian property, house number eight in Eynhofen, George Fottner
by name, was a cotter. And a beggarly one at that. As to oxen, he had one, of cows very few,
but a swarm of children. Four girls and three boys, making seven according to Adam Reese[A];
and when there was scarce enough food for the two old folks, it took good figuring and dividing
to give the young ones something.

[Footnote A: popular arithmetic primer--TRANSLATOR.]

But in the country no one ever starved yet, and so the Fottners managed to pull their children
through. As soon as one of them was eight or nine years old, it could begin to earn a bit,
and of course there was no danger after it could quit school.

The girls soon went into service; of the boys the oldest, Georgie, stayed at home, the second,
Vitus by name, went to the Shuller Farm, and the third--well, I am going to tell you about him.

Matthew his name was, and he came into the world long after the sixth child, and quite unexpectedly.

At that time Fottner was already fifty, and his wife was in the forties.

So in the opinion of all acquaintances there was absolutely no necessity of getting a seventh
child to add to their six.

In its early years this child was weakly and puny to boot; its parents often thought it looked
sickly and would soon become a little angel in Heaven. But it was not so; Matthew thrived,
became a priest subsequently, and weighed in his prime two hundred and fifty, and not a pound less.

His choice of a clerical profession was unforeseen, and caused by nothing less than the pricks
of conscience of the Upper-Bridge Farmer in Eynhofen.

The same had much money, no children, and a grievous sin that weighed on his heart. Years before
he had perjured himself in a lawsuit with his neighbor and had won thereby.

At first he did not care much, for in swearing he had taken the precaution of turning down
the fingers of his left hand. Venerable tradition has it that in this way the oath passes downward
through the body into the ground, like a bolt striking a lightning-rod, and so can do no harm.

But the Bridge Farmer was a timid person, and as he grew older he brooded frequently over the
affair, and resolved to repair the damage. That is, not the damage which the neighbor had suffered,
but the disadvantages that might accrue to his own immortal soul.

Because we know nothing for certain, and because the Almighty Judge perhaps thought differently
about the lightning-rod oath, and did not observe the Eynhofen tradition.

So he considered what and how much he must give in order to balance the account and make his
merit outweigh his badness.

That was not simple and easy, for no one could tell him: So and so many masses will square
you; but it was possible that he might make a miscount of one and lose everything.

The Bridge Farmer had never been stupid in his earthly affairs, and had often given too little,
but never too much.

But in this deal with Heaven he thought more would be better, and as he had often read in the
paper that nothing afforded a better claim on the next world than assistance in supplying priests
for the many empty posts, he resolved to have a boy study for holy orders entirely at his own
expense.

His choice fell upon Matthew Fottner, and this he rued more than once.

He should have considered more carefully the quality of the Fottner boy's intellectual endowments.

And he would have saved himself much vexation and much anxiety if he had taken more time and
picked out some one else.

He was in too much of a hurry, and because the teacher said nothing against it and old man
Fottner at once agreed with joy, he was satisfied.

Doubtless he took the priest at Eynhofen as an example, thinking that what he knew couldn't
be hard to learn.

Now Matthew was not exactly stupid; but he had no very good head for studying, and his pleasure
in it was not immoderate either.

When they told him that he was to become a priest, he was content, for the first thing he grasped
was that he could then eat more and work less.

And so he went to the Latin School at Freising. The first three years were all right. Nothing
brilliant, but good enough so he could show his reports at the parsonage when he came home
for vacations.

And when the priest read that Matthew Fottner was of moderate talent and industry and was making
sufficient progress, he would say each time in his fat voice: magnos progressus fecisti, discipule!

Matthew did not understand; nor did his father, who stood beside him. But the priest did not
care for that.

He only said it for the sake of his reputation, so that certain doubters might see that he
was a learned gentleman.

When folks talked about it in Eynhofen and told each other that Fottner's Matt could already
talk Latin like a Roman, no one rejoiced more intensely than the Bridge Farmer.

That is comprehensible. For he had speculated in the scholarship of the lad, and watched him
with rapt attention, as he would anything else that he had put money into.

So he was glad on general grounds, and especially so when Matt came home after the third year
with glasses on his nose and an actually priestly look.

This tickled him to death, and he asked the teacher whether, in view of this circumstance,
and inasmuch as Matt knew Latin, after all--more than was needed to read mass--whether it mightn't
be possible to shorten the time.

When the teacher told him that such exceptions could not be made, he found it intelligible;
but when the schoolmaster tried to explain the reason, saying that a priest didn't merely have
to know the reading of the mass by heart, but must know even more, the Bridge Farmer shook
his head and laughed a bit. He wasn't such a fool as to swallow that. Why did anybody have
to learn more'n what he needed? Hey?

No, this is the way it was: them perfessers in Freising wanted to keep Matt a good long while,
because they made money on him.

In this belief he was very much strengthened when Matthew Fottner flunked the fourth year in
the Latin school. 'Count o' Greek. Because he couldn't learn Greek.

That made it as clear as day, for now the Bridge Farmer asked anybody, what did a priest have
to know Greek for, when services and mass were celebrated in Latin?

They must be slick fellows, those gentlemen in Freising, reg'lar pickpockets.

He was all-fired mad at them, for he couldn't put any blame on the Fottner boy.

Matt told him that all he'd ever thought and known was that he'd simply have to study what
the priest in Eynhofen knew. But he'd never heard him say a word of Greek all his life long,
and so he hadn't been prepared for anything like that.

To this no objection could be made; on Matt's part the deal was straight and O. K. The rascality
was on the part of the others, off there in Freising. The Bridge Farmer went to the priest
and made complaint.

But thieves stand by each other, and the farmer gets done every time. The priest laughed at
first, and said that was simply the law and he had had to learn it too; but when the Bridge
Farmer doubted that, and told the priest, if that was the case, to celebrate mass once in Greek,
and he would pay whatever it cost, his Reverence grew abusive and called the Bridge Farmer
an impudent clod-hopper. Because he didn't know what to say, ye see?

Now things had come to the point where the Bridge Farmer had to make up his mind whether to
try Matt again, or send somebody else to Freising who would figure on the Greek from the start.

If he did the latter, it would take three years more, and the money for the Fottner boy would
be completely lost. And besides, nobody could tell whether they wouldn't think up something
else there in Freising, if they couldn't trip up the new pupil on Greek. Therefore he resolved
to have Matt try the thing once more, and admonished him that he'd just have to take a fresh
hold and keep it.

This to be sure Fottner did not do, for he was no friend of toilsome head-work, but his teacher
was himself a clergyman, who knew that the servants of God could officiate without learning,
if need be. Therefore he preferred, purely from a sense of duty, not to injure Matt, and with
Christian charity he let him be promoted the second year.

Matt came home as a member of the fifth form, and looked for all the world like a student.

He was already seventeen, and physically very much developed.

The Vicar of Aufhausen he overtopped by a head, and all his limbs were coarse and uncouth.
And at this time also he lost his boyish voice and assumed a rasping bass.

When he foregathered with his school friends Joseph Scharl of Pettenbach and Martin Zollbert
of Glonn, it was clear that he could drink vastly more than they, and that he already was well
informed on all convivial regulations.

His class spirit was strong, and he would sing with his boon companions such college songs
as "Vom hoh'n Olymp herab ward uns die Freude" or "Drum Brüderchen er-her-go biba-ha-mus"[A]
so powerfully and loudly that the Bridge Farmer at the next table would be astonished at the
scholarly attainments of the former village lad.

[Footnote A: Familiar drinking songs.--TRANSLATOR.]

And when Matt made his visit at the parsonage, he did not as in previous years request the
cook to announce him, but handed her his calling card, on which was neatly printed:

                            Matthew Fottner
                          stud. lit. et art.

Which means studiosus litterarum et artium, a devotee of letters and fine arts.

Old Fottner was proud of his son, on whom a faint reflection of his future dignity already
rested, who was invited to dinner by the priest, took walks with the Vicar, and played tarot
with the teacher and the chief of the constabulary.

And the Bridge Farmer was satisfied, too, even though he occasionally found the expenditures
of his young protégé somewhat large. But he said nothing, fearing that the latter might still
lie down in the traces if he put too little oats before him.

So Matt spent a merry vacation, and marched back to Freising in October with renewed strength.

Unfortunately he was destined to fall on evil days. The master of the fifth form was a disagreeable
man: strict and very caustic and sarcastic to boot.

The first time he saw this sky-scraping farmer lad, who did look queer enough on the school
benches, he laughed and asked him whether he towered equally high above his fellow pupils in
intellect. That this was not the case could not remain a secret, and then the bantering never
ceased. At first the teacher really tried to strike sparks out of this stone; but when he found
he could not, he soon enough gave up all hope.

Matthew Fottner made no objection at all when they no longer consulted his opinion on the Gallic
War or Caius Julius Caesar, and conjugated the Greek verbs without his cooperation.

He laughed good-humoredly when every word in his exercises was underscored with red, and he
marveled at the ambition of the little fellows before and beside him, disputing as to whether
something was right or wrong.

But to be sure, given such a point of view, the end was easy to foresee, and in August the
Bridge Farmer faced the same choice as two years before, whether or not to maintain his confidence
in the Fottner youth.

That is, he really no longer had any choice, for now, after six years, he could not very well
begin a new experiment with somebody else.

So he comforted himself with the reflection that a good horse pulls twice, and swallowed his
bitter pill.

Doubtless he did make a wry face over it, and his joy of Matt had become diminished by a good
bit; grave doubts began to stir in his heart as to whether a bona fide priest could be made
out of this gawky Goliath.

But his bad humor was not contagious, at least not for Mr. Matthew Fottner.

The latter was a welcome guest during his vacation at all the taverns for ten miles around;
and when he got out of money and was far from home, he remembered that a parsonage stands near
every church, and would go in and ask for a viaticum (traveling money), which was due him as
studiosus litterarum, a devotee of letters and fine arts.

When he again entered the seat of culture in October, his head was considerably thicker, his
bass appreciably deeper, but otherwise everything was as before.

In the meantime he had not learned to love Caius Julius Cæsar, nor to appreciate the Greek
verbs; his teacher was as disagreeable as before, and the result at the close of the year was
that Matt must once more forego promotion.

At the same time he was notified that he had passed the age limit and might not come back again.
Now wouldn't that beat all?

So they were all out in the cold: old Fottner who had been so proud, the tavern-keeper who
had already been joyfully looking forward to Matt's first mass, and the Catholic Church, which
was losing such a pillar.

But most of all the Upper-Bridge Farmer of Eynhofen, whose whole deal with our Lord God was
off. By all the devils, if that wasn't enough to madden a man and make him curse!

For seven long years he had had to pay over the nail, do nothing but pay, and no small sum,
either; you can believe that. A mile away you could tell the quality of the fodder Matt had
been standing in. And everything was in vain; on the heavenly record of the Bridge Farmer that
lightning-rod oath was still written down, but there wasn't an ink-spot on the credit side.

For after all, nobody could suppose that our Lord God would let Matt's scholarly training be
set down as anything to the good.

Such a miserable, outrageous piece of rascality surely had never existed before in the history
of the world!

This time the rage of the Bridge Farmer was directed not merely against the teachers at Freising;
the priest had enlightened him as to the fact that Matt was deficient in everything except
tarot playing and beer-drinking. The ragamuffin, the good-for-nothing!

Now he was running around Eynhofen with glasses on his nose and a belly like an alderman. He
looked like a regular Vicar, sure enough, who was going to begin reading mass the next day.
And all the time he was nothing, absolutely nothing.

The only person who remained calm under these blows of fate was the quondam stud. lit. Matthew
Fottner.

If he had studied longer and more, I should be fain to think he had learned this calm of soul
from the seven wise men.

As it is, I must assume that it was inborn.

He had, to be sure, gained no treasure of classical learning for his future life, but he figured
that in any case seven fat years had been accorded him, which no one could ever take from him
again. Not even the Bridge Farmer with all his rage.

Why should man torment himself with thoughts of the future? The past is worth something, too,
and especially such a jolly one as he had had in the secret tap-room of the Star Brewery, where
he had sat with his boon-companions and had gradually mastered the art of draining a glass
of beer at a draught. Where he had sung all the bully songs in the collection, such as "Crambambuli"
and the "Bier la la," and the ever memorable and eternally beautiful "Drum Brüderchen er-her-go
bi-ba-hamus."

Such recollections are also a treasure for life; and even if the sun-dried country bumpkins
didn't understand it, jolly it had been all the same.

And the future couldn't be so terribly bad either.

For the time being he resolved to go into the army; he would have to serve his three years
anyhow, and so it would be better if he reported right now. In this way he would get out of
the Bridge Farmer's sight and be left in peace. He tried for the First Regiment of His Majesty's
Grenadiers, and was accepted.

And if the Bridge Farmer wanted to, he could now sit in the Hofgarten and look with pride at
the file-leader of the second company.

That head, which stuck up so big and red out of the collar of his uniform, had been fattened
at the farmer's expense; and if it might have looked good over the black cassock, with the
tonsure on the back of it, yet any just man must have admitted that it didn't make such a bad
appearance over the white braid and the bright blue uniform.

To be sure, the present calling of the Fottner lad was not pleasing to God; but he himself
liked it.

The food was not bad, and the one-year volunteers willingly treated the big fellow to a glass
of beer when he introduced himself as fellow-student, boasting that he had not been left behind
when his former confratres had had a little convivial matin celebration.

And as he showed himself apt in the drill manual, he gained the favor of the captain, and after
only eight months he was duly appointed a petty officer.

All this would have been correct and pleasing, and all mankind, including Eynhofen, might have
been satisfied with the life destiny of Matthew Fottner.

But a worm was gnawing at the heart of the Bridge Farmer.

It ate and ate and gave him no peace by day or night.

When other people lose all their prospects, they sigh, tie a heavy stone to their hopes, and
sink them in the sea of forgetfulness.

A tenacious farmer does not do so; he keeps turning them over in his mind to see whether he
cannot save a part, if he is not to have the whole.

And when the Bridge Farmer's anger had lost its edge, he again began to brood and plan.

But because it was a matter that concerned book-learning, his own wisdom did not satisfy him;
so he resolved to go straight to the right shop and ask a priest's advice.

The one at Eynhofen he did not trust; not since that time long ago, when the priest had told
him such barefaced lies about Greek.

But in Sintshausen, twelve miles off, there was a priest, the Reverend Joseph Shoebower, that
one could put confidence in.

Oh, but he was a shrewd one; a deputy in the diet, three times as Catholic as the other "shepherds,"
and a hotheaded fighting-cock, who regularly chewed up Liberals with his salad and who set
the king's Ministers dancing to the very maddest of tunes, until he finally got the best-paid
post in the whole bishopric. To him our farmer went, for he would surely know some means of
preventing such a robust churl as Matthew Fottner from being lost to the Church.

So he asked him whether you couldn't grease some one's palm,--the school at Freising, or the
bishop, or some one.

"It is always a meritorious work," said the Reverend Shoebower, "when one invests his money
for Catholic purposes; but in this case it would not do much good, for the certificate for
admission to the university can only be got by an examination. At least as long as the civil
power--I am sorry to say--still has the right to put in its oar in educational matters. But
something else can be done, Bridge Farmer," he said, "if you are set on having Matt Fottner
enter the ministry at all costs. There is a Collegium Germanicum in Rome, where German youths
are trained by the Jesuits. They are very particular about faith, but as to education they
close one eye in the interest of the faith."

"Hm," remarked the Bridge Farmer, "but I wonder if the masses that such a one reads, who's
come all the way from Rome, have the same force."

"A bigger one, if anything, supposing that was possible at all," said the Reverend, "for you
mustn't forget, Bridge Farmer, that the school in Rome is right near the Holy Father."

"Well, but I wonder if they require Greek there, too, and such like gammon."

"Only for the sake of appearances. Nobody will flunk on that account if he's all right in his
faith, and pays his money correctly and in due season. But here in Germany Matthew Fottner
can't be ordained."

"Well, I'd like to know why not?"

"Because those scoundrelly Prussians have made a law against it."

"Well now, aren't they a bad lot?"

"Right you are; and a lot worse than you think for. Probably Fottner would simply have to become
a missionary. That ought to fill you with joy, for that's actually more deserving than to become
priest here."

"Oh, but are you quite sure of that? I wouldn't want to have all those big expenses again and
then have it turn out only a half-way business."

"It is certain and indisputable, for the messengers of the faith were always most highly honored."

The Bridge Farmer was happy, and went home from Sintshausen with his tail in the air.

Now everything must surely go right, and his plan would succeed.

They should make eyes in Freising when Matt Fottner got ordained in spite of them, or actually
became a missionary who converts the Hindians, and whose masses count even more.

And the Eynhofen folks that were forever quizzing him in the tavern about his Latin officer,
they should open their eyes, too, one of these days.

On the very next day he took the train to Munich. No joy is complete, and the palm of victory
is never to be gained with easy toil.

This was the experience of the Bridge Farmer when he communicated his plan to the royal corporal
Matthew Fottner.

The latter declared roundly that he neither wished to study nor to go out among the Hindians.

When the old man represented to him that he would only have to study a very little, he remarked
that nothing at all was still better; and when the Bridge Farmer asseverated by all that was
holy that he would become a saint, just like those plaster men in the church at Eynhofen, he
replied that he didn't care a straw.

Everything was fruitless. The Bridge Farmer had to withdraw with his business undone, and with
the old, gnawing worm in his heart. Nevertheless, he did not give up hope, but got after old
Fottner and promised him the nicest things for his Matt.

For a long time it was in vain, but after about two years Heaven itself interposed and brought
about a favorable turn of affairs.

The captain of the second company of His Majesty's Grenadiers was made a major. Into his position
came a venomous gentleman who fairly pestered both troops and petty officers, and thus became
an instrument of Holy Church.

For when Matthew Fottner was punished with solitary confinement for the second time, he resolved
to serve no longer in the army and to give up altogether his purpose of reenlisting. Just at
this time he received a letter from his father, which read as follows:

"DEER MATTY:

After waitin fur a long time I'll finely rite you the brijfarmer wuz heer agen Yestiddy an
sez you cud becum a sanet an woodn haf to lern enythin ixcep that yood go to roam, deer matty
think it over ef youd bee prest mung the hindeens but the furst mas sellabrayshun wood bee
in the tavrn an by the way the brijfarmer sez hel pay you threthowzen marx too boot when yor
dun. deer matty think it over wel and how mutch it wood pleez yor father. I didn rite this
letter. Sensi rote it. I mus stop my ritin cuz the lite didn burn eny mor. With meni regards
I reemane yor luving father. Good nite. Slepe wel and swete dreems. O revor mayx ushapy. Rite
mee at wuns fur I cant wate fur yor ansur.

The letter had its effect. Corporal Fottner reflected that it woudn't be a bad life among the
clerical gentlemen in Rome, better at any rate than in barracks under a captain who was so
generous with the guard-house.

So he agreed, and when his time was up at the close of the summer maneuvres, he went to Eynhofen
and got in writing the Bridge Farmer's promise relative to the three thousand marks.

When this matter had been arranged, and he had received a handsome sum for traveling expenses
into the bargain, he set off for Rome.

For seven years he was not seen again; for seven years he dwelt as Fottnerus Eynhofenensis
in the German College among the gentle Jesuits, who filed and polished at this four-square
block for dear life. A high polish he did not get, but the worthy fathers thought it would
suffice for the savages, and told him that the power of his faith would very well make amends
for the lack of science.

Matthew Fottner had his own thoughts and said nothing.

For seven years old Fottner sat in his house, number eight in Eynhofen village, rejoicing over
the future sanctity of his son; for seven years the inn-keeper kept figuring out in advance
how many gallons of beer would be drunk at a first-class first-mass celebration; and for seven
long years the Bridge Farmer went every month to the express office in Pettenbach and sent
a postal money order to Roma, Collegio Germanico.

People grew old and gray; now there was a wedding and now a funeral; old Haberlschneider's
house burned down, and Kloyber went bankrupt.

Little events in Eynhofen grew in numbers just like the big ones out in the world.

Until one day the priest--the new priest, for the old one had died three years before--announced
from the chancel that on the 25th of July, the day of St. James the Apostle, the Reverend Licentiate
Matthew Fottner would celebrate Holy Mass for the first time in Eynhofen. Then there was excitement
and astonishment in the whole country round! In all the taverns men talked about it, and the
old Bridge Farmer, who rarely went out any more since he had had his stroke, now sat in the
barroom every day and gave back the taunts that he had had to take in times gone by.

A week before the celebration Matthew Fottner arrived. He was met at the station with a decorated
carriage, and thirty lads on horseback escorted him.

A mile and a half from Eynhofen stood the first triumphal arch, which was adorned with fresh
fir-branches and with blue and white flags.

At the entrance to the village another arch stood, and a third was set up near the tavern.
From the steeple floated the yellow and white banner, salutes were crashing on the hill behind
the Stackel Farm, and the Aufhausen band pealed out its ringing airs.

Now the carriage halted before the parental estate of the licentiate; Matthew Fottner descended
and gave his father, his mother, and their other children his first blessing.

I must say he did have a clerical appearance and manner. His eyes had a mild glance, his chin
was already double, and the movements of his fat hands had something well rounded, something
actually dainty  about them.

His speech was literary, emphasizing every syllable; he would now say that he had had a suf-fi-ci-en-cy,
and that people had ma-ni-fest-ed much love to-ward him.

Of the file-leader in the second company of His Majesty's Grenadiers there was nothing left
but the height and the uncouth feet and paws.

His sentiments were mild and kind. He forgave all who had in former days led him as-tray into
temp-ta-tion, he forgave his parents and relatives and neighbors for having doubted him, he
forgave the Bridge Farmer for having ut-ter-ed angry words to him, and he forgave everybody
everything.

And he looked down with compassion and mercy on those sons of men who did not stand so close
to the throne of God as he.

During the week preceding the first mass he paced from house to house and blessed all the people;
the Bridge Farmer among them, who from that hour was unshaken in the belief that he was now
square with our Lord God in the matter of that lightning-rod oath.

The first mass was celebrated with rare splendor; folks came from far and wide, for the blessing
of a newly consecrated priest has especial power, and an old proverb says it is worth wearing
out a pair of shoe-soles to get it.

The festival sermon was preached by the Very Reverend Joseph Shoebower, who had for years been
Councillor for Spiritual Affairs and Papal Prelate.

He informed the awe-struck congregation into what a high, exalted, holy, incomparably holy,
incomparably blessed calling the young priest was entering, and praised him in the most extravagant
terms.

For you must know that Jesus Christ never was so praised on earth as a four-square young licentiate
is praised nowadays.

After the spiritual feast came the secular one in the tavern, and no one can hope to imagine
the magnificence of it.

Two oxen, three cows, a steer, eighteen calves, and twenty swine had been slaughtered by the
host; and in addition countless geese, chickens, and ducks had to lose their lives. Two thousand
gallons of beer were drunk, almost nine hundred more than the host had figured.

When the dishes were passed around to take up offerings during the festival dinner, the gifts
flowed in so copiously that two thousand marks were left over for the licentiate.

It was an elevating occasion.

The people of Eynhofen thought the newly consecrated priest would board the very next ship
and go off to the wild Hindians. Old Mrs. Fottner shed tears in advance, and all over the village
they were telling tales of the dangers the missionaries had to undergo among the cannibals,
who are wont to take such a martyr, stick a spit right through him, and then twist him slowly
over the fire until he turns nice and brown.

But they little knew the honored son of Eynhofen, Matthew Fottner by name, if they thought
he would have anything to do with that sort of enterprise.

He now had a fortune of five thousand marks; three thousand from the Bridge Farmer and two
thousand from the special offering. With this capital he migrated to Switzerland and became
a pastor in the Canton of Graubünden. In those parts the people speak German as well as in
Eynhofen, and they roast chickens and ducks on the spit, but no missionaries.

There Fottner spent his days in peace and contentment, and soon weighed two hundred and fifty,
not a pound less.

For the Bridge Farmer, who would have liked to see Matt as a saint, this was a disappointment.

And for the Hindians too.

For they will never again enjoy the prospect of having a corporal of the Bavarian Royal Grenadiers
come out to them as a missionary. Hop-up-and-down is its behavior, with snake-like humps, like
a jumping polecat. Serpentine windings? Don't exist there. Straight as an arrow it heedlessly
goes over mountain after mountain, down to the Drau and up again to airy heights, and any motorist
who is slightly in a hurry will make a miniature descent into hell of some 250 feet, say beyond
Völkermarkt, approaching Lavamünd; the terrified shriek of the ladies is already resounding
at the bottom, but their stomachs would still be on top of Völkermarkt Hill, obeying the law
of inertia, if they could have passed up through their mouths. And then immediately after,
whee! up a fresh "mountain."

This is the way we treat the good old times nowadays. Was not that road, in its day, built
to lengthen life? There you could ponder over your existence, for your little horses, like
peripatetic philosophers, pushed onward with bobbing heads, laboriously and slowly, slowly.

Ah, but it is a beautiful road, beautiful! Beautiful enough to tarry on, to die on. The more
remote from you, the higher rises, terrace-fashion, the titanic grandeur of the Alps. Clear
to the south, the gigantic flight of the Sann Valley Dolomites sweeps on beyond the Obir, and
then the ghostly pale Karawanken stare across at you. In the middle foreground the mighty plateaus
of the Ferlacher and Eisenkappler Country gradually become quieter, and then comes the shining
plain, crisscrossed into sections by groves and gold-gleaming fields, by pale-green marsh-meadows
and red-blooming buckwheat. And with an abrupt descent from the road you come to the Drau far
below, flowing with deep roar between steep banks thickly set with towering young spears of
spruce, and tussling with rocky boulders; yet from the road one could not look down upon its
battles there in the cool canyon, so precipitous are its banks, so densely black rises the
legion of spruces. Only when a brook storms under the road and down to the Drau can one see
its grayish flow and spume through the gap below--the stream that once halted the German language
on its yearning flight toward the blue waves of that southern sea.

But we on the road, high up in the sunlight, send a whoop shooting like an arrow across river
and plain into the divine vastness of the distance, toward the glimmering, rocky mountains,
and salute as exultant children the Father of all that is mightiest in us.

Rarely, rarely nowadays does such a "ya-oo" flit from the wind-swept height across the valley.
For the road has grown desolate and no longer carries weight. For hours at a time one may vainly
hearken to the rustle of the woods, the deep rumble of the River Drau, without ever detecting
the cheerful home-bound rattle of a rustic cart between pine-woods and the angle of a mountain.
This proud, lofty road no longer serves a purpose on earth, that once was the soul of the Carinthian
land.

Of all histories and human destinies those are the most conducive to meditation which are closely
knitted together with a bit of universal fate, and so let me narrate here for the woeful diversion
of men the story of Florian Hausbaum, who was once the youth and the song of this road.

Florian Hausbaum was a Styrian of the woods from Mahrenberg, that same superb, defiantly German
Mahrenberg below which the Drau plunges over titanic boulders, and over which two churches
stand face to face, tower against tower, like locomotives desirous of ramming each other; the
old Slovene Church, and the new German-Evangelical Church.

But Florie Hausbaum's youth saw nothing of the future German death-struggle there in the wooded
valley of the Drau. Every one was still singing the dear old songs, and Florian sang them best
of all. He learned nothing, he never drudged, he merely sang, as forgetful of toil as the cricket
of the south. And when it was time to go to work, the good-for-nothing did not care to earn
his bread in the cool spruce-grown ravine with its saw-mills; his cheery, worthless soul felt
drawn to the open, sunny country which reaches up a good stretch along the Drau westward of
Marburg, until Bachern and Possruck bite together their bristly jaws at the river, making the
region wild, precipitous, and rugged.

In sunny Marburg the wine flows down all the hills in streams to this very day. But at that
time, more than forty years ago, there were three times as many vineyards, extending clear
beyond Maria-Rast and Zellnitz, and Florian Hausbaum became a wine-carter and made trips into
Carinthia.

And so he drove his nodding horses uphill and downhill through his native village across the
border; and in Drauburg, in Lavamünd, in Völkermarkt, and Klagenfurt, all the inn-keepers waited
for him as the bringer of joy. And he was the lad for that. He sang all the way along the windblown
road, and from all the windows men and maidens nodded to him.

Between Völkermarkt and Lavamünd the liverymen had grown rich on the relaying which the excellent
humps of the road brought them, and there they also had open purses and open hearts for wine.
Hence at the two ends of his route, where the road did its maddest tricks, Florie was best
loved and known: if for no other reason, because he had so much time on account of all the
"getting his breath," staying over night, feeding, and changing horses.

He too liked best to dwell in that up-and-down world. For he had a girl in Drauburg, and one
in Lavamünd; one at St. Martin and another at Eis close by (dangerous and burdensome sweethearting),
one at Lippitzbach, one in Völkermarkt, and a warm terminal station at Klagenfurt. These seven
dear yearning creatures were just enough for him, but he was also just enough for them; for
he never skipped one of them when he went his rounds.

He was a handsome fellow, of that becoming, jolly, light-blond type of Old Styria which is
now beginning to grow rare among the men in the valley of the Drau. His eyes laughed; nothing
else in the world laughed so, except his road, when the snow had melted away and the first
trip began. Then the little puddles in the road, formed by the melting snow and rippled by
the wind, looked at the sky out of a thousand bright blue eyes, and there was a wink and a
smirk in them all the way from Drauburg to Klagenfurt.

He loved this road with all the power of his heart, which otherwise, i.e., for the girls, was
far too gay. Besides, the girls changed, but the road remained. There was but the one, and
it was unique.

His life obeyed the laws which God has given for Nature and wine. In the winter he lay quietly
at Marburg, or made little wooden carts. But when February was past and the wine was seasoned,
so that the new vintage was at last ready for transport, and when the snow trickled off the
roads, then began his regal course, his bridal entry into Carinthia, his jubilant, earliest
march of triumph.

He always wore a flower in his hat, and his nags each got one, too. But when in the early days
of March he drove along the road, only just freed of snow, he would take a whole supply of
violets with him, for in his blessed, sunny land these sometimes bloomed by the end of February
in special sunny nooks. God of love, what eyes the forest-villagers along the Drau made at
them, and still more the Carinthians, who often do not receive their violets from heaven before
May! They scarcely would have primulas, while even Florie's horses were wearing violets on
their collars, because he had kept them fresh between his casks.

To all the girls he brought the breath of the Styrian spring with him, and thus Florie Hausbaum
fairly came to personify the spring-time over the whole length of the Carinthian Road, and
as such he was cheered and loved like a young emperor.

He was happy.

The yellow-hammers perched near the road and sang, the larks rose high, the sun danced in bretzel-shaped
figures in the mirroring puddles, the sparrows fought in exuberant glee over what Florie's
horses had dropped for them, the relaying liverymen grinned, the inn-keepers stood planted
before their doors waiting for him, and shouted Hooray, and beside him shook and gurgled the
fragrant, mighty wine-casks.

But far before him longing girl-faces were waiting behind the windows near the long road. Love,
love awaited him from one end of the road to the other. Whether it was the jubilee of his boon-companions,
the relieved "At last!" of the inn-keepers, or the smothered sigh of the pretty girls--it was
all a part of the same joy.

And these girls were so modest. First because they were Carinthians (where you don't always
have to marry right away), and then because Florie had always been away all winter, so that
nothing but woeful legend and delightful little stories about him were current. So recollection
was at work in the yearning girlish hearts, and it made him twice as cheerful, as golden, as
laughing, as slender and handsome, as he was.

But in March he would come along singing and with a violet in his hat, and as full of intoxicating
power as his casks, and would make them all happy, inn-keepers and girls; there was a quatrain
about him which all the lads along the Carinthian Road used to sing when they wanted to tease
the love-sick girls. It went this way:

           "A vi'let from the roadside, a kiss for the night:
            The Styrian wine-carter is my delight."

He knew what he meant to them all; he knew the feeling of happiness that radiated from him,
and often when he creaked along the road in his wagon until far into the quiet, hissing night
of the Föhn, and the gleam of a lighted window replied to the swaying light of his lantern
on the horse-collar, he himself would send that same little ditty out into the yearning, burning
spring night with his strong, clear voice, making the sleepless girls that heard it bite their
pillows with delight.

Such a night it was that brought him a small misfortune and a great triumph. On that confounded
Völkermarkt Hump his cart had got onto the slope, while he was still filled with the echoes
of the sweetness for the sake of which he had outstayed his time in Lippitzbach. There he had
been received as the outstretched arms of the trees welcome the roaring Föhn, or the waiting
spring earth a warm rain. Now as he drove on, happiness was still bounding within him, a sea
of dreams, but late, late was the hour. So he drove through the entire night, and at the gray
dawn he had reached the height opposite the Völkermarkt Hollow. This time he was carting a
delicious wine, which seldom grew in Styria. Farmer Pfriemer in Marburg had become a sworn
rival of the Hungarians, and had begun to export a dark red wine, called Vinaria, so that the
Carinthians might henceforth get a red wine from Styria, too. The first vintage had turned
out sweet and heavy, and now Florian Hausbaum was carting the seasoned beverage up to Völkermarkt
in two casks, one of them tremendous, the other of very respectable size.

But while he was dreaming thus, his horses had already turned down the hill. The cart exerted
enormous pressure and took the horses off their feet; at this moment the Styrian wine-carter
started into wakefulness, and while the wagon was thundering downhill with more and more terrifying
speed, he loosened the drag and threw it under the hind wheel, and at this abrupt braking the
wagon leaped mightily into the air, like a startled rhinoceros. One of the poles on the side
cracked, and the smaller cask toppled over and fell from the cart with a heavy bum-bum-bum-bum.
Florie had tried to throw his weight against it, but the cask gave his head a severe slanting
blow before dropping full weight into the road.

A stave had sprung, and the pressure made the deep-red fluid gurgle out in a flood. The white
dust of the road, became ruddy. The young carter had just enough presence of mind to roll the
heavy wine-cask into the grass, and then increasing faintness reeled about him. But with his
last thought he clung to his wine. As he sank down he pressed his body against the crack from
which the wine was streaming out, the cask leaned heavily against him and crushed him against
the ground--and then he knew nothing more.

Many voices wakened him. A girl was crying, an old woman was storming, the inn-keeper called
him by name, the heavy scent of new wine hung about him. A crowd of people stood around, and
the cart was gone, and the cask resting on him the men pulled away, so that the wine at once
leaped forth again. So they turned the damaged spot up. But he still lay there as formerly
in his delight he had gone along the road, with his jacket torn open to let the air of spring
cool his heart. Only his festive white shirt had become spotted with red from the spilled wine.

The keeper of the Ox Inn at Völkermarkt, however, nearly fell upon him and kissed him. He had
already been waiting on the hill-top when he saw the masterless cart, with the one cask, arrive
at the bottom of Steil Valley and stand there; for of themselves the horses would not climb
the hill. Then he had run for aid, and with him everybody that had been waiting for wine and
Florie, and two score people had seen how the faithful Florian, in spite of unconsciousness
and pain, had with his own body guarded the wine and prevented its escape.

That was a Styrian wine-carter!

Hausbaum was told the whole story while everything was still reeling about him and head and
ribs ached. He had already begun to weep like a child; but when he learned of his heroic deed,
his lips drew down only four or five times more; then his mouth changed from a horseshoe into
a broad line, and at the end Florie laughed all over his face and so overpoweringly that all
joined in.

Now he was carried in triumph to Völkermarkt, found his horses sound and contented, and was
extolled for the hero he was. For he had preserved a sacred treasure for Völkermarkt.

This tale ran over half the Carinthian land, and that was the climax and the highest prosperity
of Florian Hausbaum's bright life.

Then, however, his fortunes, his renown, and his importance declined all at once. Love and
acclamation died away, and his calling with all its joys was crushed with him. And that was
because, far below in the plain across the Drau, the railroad was built.

For another year Florie Hausbaum proudly and loftily carted his wine into the Carinthian land.
Far below him, beyond the stream, they were working on the long iron serpent; but he did not
even look at it.

In the second year he only carted his wine until the early days of summer. But even on his
spring trip his heart grew anxious and heavy. The girls were no longer starved with love-pangs
as formerly, not at all, for the handsome young engineers, and then the foremen and bosses,
were turning things upside down. There had been dances, dances at Carnival time, even in the
smallest villages.

And then came the day on which the first locomotive, decked out with flags, branches, ribbons,
and flowers, pulled a whole trainful of jubilation from Marburg to Klagenfurt. Thirty young
girls from the Styrian wine-centre were on the train in their festal finery, going to dance
with the lads of Klagenfurt. All sang and shouted for joy because the new time had come, the
time of youth.

But high up on the lonely road the fair-haired carter, who had meanwhile reached the shady
side of thirty, held his hat with its fading bouquet before his face. The horses pulled till
they trembled, but below them the iron serpent crawled along, overtook them without effort,
and was lost to sight far ahead. Only a long, mocking whistle came to them from the distance,
from the wooded moors beyond the Drau, wafted to them by wide-ranging breezes. From that day
on it was the railroad that carried wine and love, wood and happiness, wares and hope.

But on the heights above Florian Hausbaum was making his last trip. His employer had given
him notice. He let his quivering horses rest, and where in other days an outburst of happiness
had made him send a halloo from the fairest spot far out across the conquered depths toward
the Alps, there he now wept for a whole silly stretch.

Henceforth the road was desolate, at one blow--and no one even drove a cart over it any more.
The manure which the farmers had conveyed to their fields was almost the only one of this world's
goods which it still carried.

As for Florian Hausbaum, he became a driver for the Ox Inn at Völkermarkt; that was a little
consolation, at least; to settle down here on the scene of former triumphs, and ever and again
to be able to drive at least a little load of grain or wood over the beloved road. To be sure,
he could no longer reach all his girls with these present trips. Nor did they need it, for
now there was other supply. From over yonder, from across the Drau, from Prävali, Bleiburg,
and Kühnsdorf, and also from Rückersdorf and Grafenstein, and not to mention the provincial
capital, from there came the new foes, who wore such handsome red caps when on duty, as resplendent
as officers with their black velvet lapels and the gold rosettes and winged wheels. They were
the young railroad officials, pupils and assistants, and each one was the Casanova of his district!
In those small places there were no other uniforms, and what was the bouquet on Florian's hat
worth, compared with those caps with gold braid and rosette! They took away his Lisi, Marianne
at St. Martin, and the passionate beauty Resele in the little hamlet of Eis. At Klagenfurt
and Völkermarkt they danced all the girls away before his very nose, and it was just the winter,
toward which he had looked forward with joyful anticipation, which became the way of the cross
for him, where each stopping-place meant the end of a love and loyalty. Florie's best quality,
his rarity, was of course gone; from now on he was always on hand, after all, and more than
that, he was no longer the bringer of joy, the messenger of the thawing breeze, as of yore.

He defended his position with the girls; but as full-bred Styrian he began quarrels and brawls
with his rivals on the railroad, instead of becoming a railroad man himself. So he was locked
up in Klagenfurt for a couple of weeks, and for the first time this man, hitherto so open-hearted,
so totally without reserve, developed a secret emotional life: hate of the railroad, and love
for his deserted highway.

In reality it was love for his fleeting youth, the unquenchable thirst of yearning desire for
the past, memory! But because the road had been the scene of his eternally faded greatness,
therefore he attached all this love to it.

The years dropped out of sight in gnawing conflicts with his steadily thickening blood, and
youth was where the violets of Marburg were, and the songs, and the new wine: with new generations.

For three or four years, indeed, Florie still lived on the echoes of his victorious days, and
was still widely and warmly welcomed. But more and more strange faces came into the village,
and new generations grew up that had not understood him in his glory of old. Girls of eighteen
and twenty began to develop out of the children of that day, and these looked upon carter Hausbaum
as a relic "of the time before the railroad came," as a venerable ancestor.

Rarer and rarer grew those admirers who would pound on the tavern table, saying, "Ah, old Florie,
that was a devil of a lad for you!" So he himself began to play the narrator, and fiercely
defended his own legend. But the more he had to tell, the older he appeared to the petticoated sex.

At first he was willingly listened to; then he was regarded as played out. Now he no longer
talked with the old sorrowful ease, but with passionate bawling and irritation. He boastfully
forced his stories upon people, and lost respect all the more.

Only the road, the old road remained his last sweetheart and remained quiet and faithful; both
had become despised and useless, but they had clung to each other. Only, when he now drove
over it--alas, how that too had changed. Formerly he brought along the new wine with the new
spring.

Now he creaked along with the fire-wood for the winter.

His employer had begun a large business in wood; that made Hausbaum's carting period come in
the fall. And so his little wagon again groaned over the deserted road, uphill, downhill, without
his meeting a human soul. No driver but he was to be seen; he was like the ghost of the old
road. The autumn tempest lodged in the canyon of the Drau, rebounded from all sides and whirled
up, bidding him pull his old felt hat, on which he had long since given up putting any flowers,
far down on his forehead. The land shook in the roaring sweep of a wrath of Doomsday, and his
aging bones shivered. It was ending, ending; and where the larks of spring had once whirred
about him, there he was now surrounded by the tittering dances of the withered leaves.

There he often saw once more the old houses with the little windows behind which he had had
his girls, more of them and prettier ones than any lad in the land. But they had all married
out of the houses or moved away, or had stayed on the spot and become care-worn housekeepers
and mothers, who did not care to recognize him. The windows stared blindly at him, and no longer
knew him for whom they had once opened like little gates of paradise, in passionate nights
of spring. They had grown dull and gloomy; God knew who was now squatting behind them. But
when from under one of the windows, despite the late October days, there came the breath of
asters and everlasting, and some fresh young girl-face gazed in surprise toward the bony bachelor,
who looked over inquiringly as with accursed, forlorn eyes, then his old heart would double
up like a fist within him and cause him great pain.

It was all over; like fireworks.

And then, then even his very last sweetheart, which he had regarded as inalienable, was snatched
from him: the highroad.

The first enemy he had merely followed with horrified eyes: the stinking, dust-whirling rattle-box,
which flung the old road behind it as a spendthrift flings the precious money. But they kept
coming oftener, the loud-colored power vehicles; faster and faster they became, and harder
and harder it was for the carter's old hands to control the madly rearing horses.

In former days he had always walked beside his horses. Now that he had grown old and gray,
he was very often glad to perch on the seat and doze there. But just when a short dream had
helped him to forget the bitter change in his life, another of those monsters would roar behind
him its spiteful, deep "too-oot, too-oot." Then it behooved him to jump down in a hurry, pull
the nags to one side, and speak to the excited creatures words of calm, of love and kindness,
while his old heart rose into his throat with fright and hate. But the unknown, insolent machine
was already far ahead, and away off on that terrible hill where the carter's horses quivered
and stamped, where he had to breathe them nine times and smoked a whole pipe of tobacco before
he reached the top, he would see the monster whizzing upward. As with a shout of joy it stormed
the ascent, so that it seemed to fly out into the air at the top, before it was engulfed by
the next hollow. And mockingly, already at an incredible distance, the "too-oot, too-oot" would
come back to him, its bawling tones seeming to ooze away.

The low curs! Their love for this road was like that of the sportsman for the shy pigeons:
love to shoot them. They joyously sought out this hundred-hilled stretch, and they exulted
when they rolled over these great humps on the second or even the third speed. It was a delight
to make a mock of the old road. Landscape? Beauty? It was ahead, never anywhere but ahead, ahead.

Florian Hausbaum had thought he must die of wrath and woe when these road-gobblers appeared,
and yet the opposite happened: he had a new lease of life. At last he had something that once
more linked him to this earth; and if it was a hatred, it led him back to men! Now they all
understood him, now he could once more get first hearing in all the taverns; he could tell
of dangers he had escaped, so that half a village would hastily collect to hear him repeat
the tale; he might curse and threat without being ridiculed, think up tricks to play, and wage
malicious battles, and once again the bar-rooms resounded with the old cry, long silenced,
"Hooray, Florie, good for you! A reg'lar devil, that Hausbaum. Eyah, that's the old Styrian
wine-carter for you!"

He found assent, approval, confirmation, wherever he went, and his superb white hair silenced
all contradiction. Venerable and mighty was the hatred of Florian Hausbaum in all the land,
and the eyes of the old carter again began to sparkle, his cheeks to look red, and his heart
swelled, making the old man look magnificent. He had something to live for!

On a Sunday in spring he was standing at one end of Völkermarkt, in the midst of the men-folk
who had come from church and were now puffing at their holiday pipes in God's delicious, mild
air. There came a red motor through the place, quite slowly. A gentle and just citizen was
riding in it, who himself hated the brutality of the speed-maniacs, and had accustomed himself
to drive through towns with the mildness of a milk-wagon.

Old Hausbaum was still raging at the last "filthy brute," who had shot through the scattering
holiday crowd like a barbarian on his scythed chariot in the battles of old. His pent-up rage
was now vented upon these travelers, who came so opportunely into his clutches. He jumped into
the path of the machine, the gentleman slowed down still more and tooted his horn. But Florian
Hausbaum did not yield his ground. So the vehicle stopped.

And now it burst forth, the great speech of the old wine-carter; the mightiest one in the life
of the Styrian, Florian Hausbaum:

"You wind-belchers! You road-stinkers, who sent for you? D' you bring any money into the land?
Naw! D' you ever get out even once in Grafenstein, in Völkermarkt, in Lippitzbach? Or at Eis,
at Lavamünd, at Drauburg or Hohenmauten or Mahrenberg? Naw! You've come from the city, you
tiresome city-dudes and you women with your faces tied up as if you had the tooth-ache, and
you never stop till you're in Marburg again, or maybe in Graz, 'cause the country inn-keeper's
little bit o' grub ain't good enough for you. But to run down the poor farmer's last goose,
run over children, drive horses crazy, torment their drivers, cover the Lord God's grain with
dust, and dirty up the hay so 't not a beast'll take a mouthful of it, go bellowing past the
church just when the pastor's talking inside about the Kingdom o' Heaven, and not only that,
but stink like the devil, that's what you like! You're sent by the devil, you look like the
devil, you haven't got any more justice or mercy than he has, and now go and drive to the devil
and break your necks, that's my wish for you. There, now you can go on stinking!"

The ladies in the automobile scolded, the farmers round about pressed forward threateningly;
but the gentleman driving, a quiet, composed person, merely looked sadly at the gendarme who
came hurrying up, and said, "Did you hear all that? Make way for us at least, so that we shall
not be torn to pieces."

He had to crank again. Then he drove away, down into the deep valley and up the hill beyond
and away; but Florian Hausbaum stood like Siegfried after the battle with the dragon.

The gendarme said to him with some reproach, "Right you were, Florie. But if the gentleman
goes to law, I'll have to testify against you. Then it'll go hard with you; do be sensible
in your old age!" And he went.

But all the rest were of the opinion that it was quite impossible to be sensible about this,
and Florian was loudly applauded. "That was fine, what you told 'em! Eyah, old Florie. That's
right, Styrian folks know how to use their tongues."

The old carter was quite intoxicated with success and praise. He knew that his renown would
go circling out over the whole country-side, and every farmer who had been at church this day
would carry home the mighty speech of Florian Hausbaum more accurately than the sermon. He
was great as in the olden days, and his heart swelled with pride.

Then came the shriek of a siren from the other end of the village. "Another stinking devil,"
they said. "Get out of the road, Florie."

But the old carter remained standing there with widespread feet, and his white hair blew about
wildly in the spring breeze. He knew that signal; it came from a great machine that tore through
the country every day, as if the point were to rescue and prevent a misfortune, instead of
conjuring up one. And this machine was hated throughout the whole Carinthian land.

"Here I stand," shouted the old man in a frenzy, "and here I'll stay and not let a single auto
out o' the village!"

He had just had a pleasant experience, and thought every machine would stop for him like the
last one. But the monster was already at hand, and as for stopping, it could not even if the
driver had wished to. An angry shout in the machine, a horrified wail rising from a hundred
voices, and with a mighty leap the automobile crashed over the toppled obstacle, jumped, dragged,
and tore itself along for ten full paces more, despite brakes and cut-out, and not until then
did it come to a stop. The occupants, wealthy young people, leaped out. There lay Florie Hausbaum
by the roadside.

The automobile had fatally injured him and hurled him to one side. Now every one ran for aid,
and the giddy young people cursed the fact that their machine was so well known; they feared
that assistance here would be dangerous. But not a soul said a cross word to them. So they
knelt beside the injured white-bearded victim, wiped the blood from his face, and opened his vest,

As the physician was working over him, Florian Hausbaum awoke once more in this life.

He looked about him, and drew breaths of pain and affliction. But the wonderful spring air
of that day penetrated even his crushed lungs like a mild wine in a parched throat. Intoxicating
was this air, as of yore; weak and peaceful, victorious and beloved he was, as of yore: when
he had saved the precious red wine.

Then, in his wandering mind, all his evil days vanished, and all hatred. Age was forgotten,
and at this moment, when his soul began to flutter its wings like a new butterfly, all the
foregoing was blotted out; there was no longer any suffering, nor dying. Timeless! There was
nothing but spring air, lovely, hopeful spring air. And truly, the evil days of old age, of
mockery, and of the railroad, of autumn tempests on the road, of a pulse that slackened in
the veins--nothing of this could stand its ground. It was all a mere dream.

For he felt as weak and as happy as on the day when he had almost sacrificed his glorious youth
for a cask of wine. And look, here were the moist, dark-red spots in the sunlit dust of the
road, and the ruby red on his Sunday shirt flamed even more intensely.

So an unexampled happiness reeled through the Styrian wine-carter's mind, because his life's
greatest day and his deed of heroism were still upon him. He sobbed in pain and joy, "Leave
me and catch the precious wine. It must not run out. People, the sacred wine!"

And with the happiness of intoxication he sank into the roseate dream of eternity. One morning
I awoke early and felt my heart so full of repugnance to all life that I shut my eyes again
and wondered what sort of dream could have left me in this feverish state of mind. But I could
not recollect that I had had any dream; in the middle of the night, aroused by a creaking casement,
I had started up out of a dreamless slumber. Whence came, then, for the second and the third
time this darkness in me, this torturing feeling of oppression at every breath, this piteous
longing never to have waked up and never again to have to wake up? I had gone contentedly to
bed, and had slept a deep and peaceful sleep.

