Another and louder swish of the rapier made him pirouette and dodge again with great energy.

"Don't," he cried, "that's dangerous; you'll put out my eyes; I never saw such a girl!"

She laughed at him and kept on whipping the air dangerously near his eyes, until she had driven
him backward as far as he could squeeze himself into a comer of the room.

Madame Roussillon came to the door from the kitchen and stood looking in and laughing, with
her hands on her hips. By this time the rapier was making a criss-cross pattern of flashing
lines close to the young man's head while Alice, in the enjoyment of her exercise, seemed to
concentrate all the glowing rays of her beauty in her face, her eyes dancing merrily.

"Quit, now, Alice," he begged, half in fun and half in abject fear; "please quit--I surrender!"

She thrust to the wall on either side of him, then springing lightly backward a pace, stood
at guard. Her thick yellow hair had fallen over her neck and shoulders in a loose wavy mass,
out of which her face beamed with a bewitching effect upon her captive.

Rene, glad enough to have a cessation of his peril, stood laughing dryly; but the singing down
at the river house was swelling louder and he made another movement to go.

"You surrendered, you remember," cried Alice, renewing the sword-play; "sit down on the chair
there and make yourself comfortable. You are not going down yonder to-night; you are going
to stay here and talk with me and Mother Roussillon; we are lonesome and you are good company."

A shot rang out keen and clear; there was a sudden tumult that broke up the distant singing;
and presently more firing at varying intervals cut the night air from the direction of the river.

Jean, the hunchback, came in to say that there was a row of some sort; he had seen men running
across the common as if in pursuit of a fugitive; but the moonlight was so dim that he could
not be sure what it all meant.

Rene picked up his cap and bolted out of the house.

CHAPTER III

THE RAPE OF THE DEMIJOHN

The row down at the river house was more noise than fight, so far as results seemed to indicate.
It was all about a small dame jeanne of fine brandy, which an Indian by the name of Long-Hair
had seized and run off with at the height of the carousal. He must have been soberer than his
pursuers, or naturally fleeter; for not one of them could catch him, or even keep long in sight
of him. Some pistols were emptied while the race was on, and two or three of the men swore
roundly to having seen Long-Hair jump sidewise and stagger, as if one of the shots had taken
effect. But, although the moon was shining, he someway disappeared, they could not understand
just how, far down beside the river below the fort and the church.

It was not a very uncommon thing for an Indian to steal what he wanted, and in most cases light
punishment followed conviction; but it was felt to be a capital offense for an Indian or anybody
else to rape a demijohn of fine brandy, especially one sent as a present, by a friend in New
Orleans, to Lieutenant Governor Abbott, who had until recently been the commandant of the post.
Every man at the river house recognized and resented the enormity of Long-Hair's crime and
each was, for the moment, ready to be his judge and his executioner. He had broken at once
every rule of frontier etiquette and every bond of sympathy. Nor was Long-Hair ignorant of
the danger involved in his daring enterprise. He had beforehand carefully and stolidly weighed
all the conditions, and true to his Indian nature, had concluded that a little wicker covered
bottle of brandy was well worth the risk of his life. So he had put himself in condition for
a great race by slipping out and getting rid of his weapons and all surplus weight of clothes.

This incident brought the drinking bout at the river house to a sudden end; but nothing further
came of it that night, and no record of it would be found in these pages, but for the fact
that Long-Hair afterwards became an important character in the stirring historical drama which
had old Vincennes for its center of energy.

Rene de Ronville probably felt himself in bad luck when he arrived at the river house just
too late to share in the liquor or to join in chasing the bold thief. He listened with interest,
however, to the story of Long-Hair's capture of the commandant's demijohn and could not refrain
from saying that if he had been present there would have been a quite different result.

"I would have shot him before he got to that door," he said, drawing his heavy flint-lock pistol
and going through the motions of one aiming quickly and firing. Indeed, so vigorously in earnest
was he with the pantomime, that he actually did fire, unintentionally of course,--the ball
burying itself in the door-jamb.

He was laughed at by those present for being more excited than they who witnessed the whole
thing. One of them, a leathery-faced and grizzled old sinner, leered at him contemptuously
and said in queer French, with a curious accent caught from long use of backwoods English:

"Listen how the boy brags! Ye might think, to hear Rene talk, that he actually amounted to
a big pile."

This personage was known to every soul in Vincennes as Oncle Jazon, and when Oncle Jazon spoke
the whole town felt bound to listen.

"An' how well he shoots, too," he added with an intolerable wink; "aimed at the door and hit
the post. Certainly Long-Hair would have been in great danger! O yes, he'd 'ave killed Long-Hair
at the first shot, wouldn't he though!"

Oncle Jazon had the air of a large man, but the stature of a small one; in fact he was shriveled
bodily to a degree which suggested comparison with a sun-dried wisp of hickory bark; and when
he chuckled, as he was now doing, his mouth puckered itself until it looked like a scar on
his face. From cap to moccasins he had every mark significant of a desperate character; and
yet there was about him something that instantly commanded the confidence of rough men,--the
look of self-sufficiency and superior capability always to be found in connection with immense
will power. His sixty years of exposure, hardship, and danger seemed to have but toughened
his physique and strengthened his vitality. Out of his small hazel eyes gleamed a light as
keen as ice.

"All right, Oncle Jazon," said Rene laughing and blowing the smoke out of his pistol; "'twas
you all the same who let Long-Hair trot off with the Governor's brandy, not I. If you could
have hit even a door-post it might have been better."

Oncle Jazon took off his cap and looked down into it in a way he had when about to say something
final.

"Ventrebleu! I did not shoot at Long-Hair at all," he said, speaking slowly, "because the scoundrel
was unarmed. He didn't have on even a knife, and he was havin' enough to do dodgin' the bullets
that the rest of 'em were plumpin' at 'im without any compliments from me to bother 'im more."

"Well," Rene replied, turning away with a laugh, "if I'd been scalped by the Indians, as you
have, I don't think there would be any particular reason why I should wait for an Indian thief
to go and arm himself before I accepted him as a target."

Oncle Jazon lifted a hand involuntarily and rubbed his scalpless crown; then he chuckled with
a grotesque grimace as if the recollection of having his head skinned were the funniest thing
imaginable.

"When you've killed as many of 'em as Oncle Jazon has," remarked a bystander to Rene, "you'll
not be so hungry for blood, maybe."

"Especially after ye've took fifty-nine scalps to pay for yer one," added Oncle Jazon, replacing
his cap over the hairless area of his crown.

The men who had been chasing Long-Hair, presently came straggling back with their stories--each
had a distinct one--of how the fugitive escaped. They were wild looking fellows, most of them
somewhat intoxicated, all profusely liberal with their stock of picturesque profanity. They
represented the roughest element of the well-nigh lawless post.

"I'm positive that he's wounded," said one. "Jacques and I shot at him together, so that our
pistols sounded just as if only one had been fired--bang! that way--and he leaped sideways
for all the world like a bird with a broken leg. I thought he'd fall; but ve! he ran faster'n
ever, and all at once he was gone; just disappeared."

"Well, to-morrow we'll get him," said another. "You and I and Jacques, we'll take up his trail,
the thief, and follow him till we find him. He can't get off so easy."

"I don't know so well about that," said another; "it's Long-Hair, you must remember, and Long-Hair
is no common buck that just anybody can find asleep. You know what Long-Hair is. Nobody's ever
got even with 'im yet. That's so, ain't it? Just ask Oncle Jazon, if you don't believe it!"

The next morning Long-Hair was tracked to the edge. He had been wounded, but whether seriously
or not could only be conjectured. A sprinkle of blood, here and there quite a dash of it, reddened
the grass and clumps of weeds he had run through, and ended close to the water into which it
looked as if he had plunged with a view to baffling pursuit. Indeed pursuit was baffled. No
further trace could be found, by which to follow the cunning fugitive. Some of the men consoled
themselves by saying, without believing, that Long-Hair was probably lying drowned at the bottom
of the river.

"Pas du tout," observed Oncle Jazon, his short pipe askew far over in the corner of his mouth,
"not a bit of it is that Indian drowned. He's jes' as live as a fat cat this minute, and as
drunk as the devil. He'll get some o' yer scalps yet after he's guzzled all that brandy and
slep' a week."

It finally transpired that Oncle Jazon was partly right and partly wrong. Long-Hair was alive,
even as a fat cat, perhaps; but not drunk, for in trying to swim with the rotund little dame
jeanne under his arm he lost hold of it and it went to the bottom of the Wabash, where it may
be lying at this moment patiently waiting for some one to fish it out of its bed deep in the
sand and mud, and break the ancient wax from its neck!

Rene de Ronville, after the chase of Long-Hair had been given over, went to tell Father Beret
what had happened, and finding the priest's hut empty turned into the path leading to the Roussillon
place, which was at the head of a narrow street laid out in a direction at right angles to
the river's course. He passed two or three diminutive cabins, all as much alike as bee-hives.
Each had its squat veranda and thatched or clapboarded roof held in place by weight-poles ranged
in roughly parallel rows, and each had the face of the wall under its veranda neatly daubed
with a grayish stucco made of mud and lime. You may see such houses today in some remote parts
of the creole country of Louisiana.

As Rene passed along he spoke with a gay French freedom to the dames and lasses who chanced
to be visible. His air would be regarded as violently brigandish in our day; we might even
go so far as to think his whole appearance comical. His jaunty cap with a tail that wagged
as he walked, his short trousers and leggins of buckskin, and his loose shirt-like tunic, drawn
in at the waist with a broad belt, gave his strong figure just the dash of wildness suited
to the armament with which it was weighted. A heavy gun lay in the hollow of his shoulder under
which hung an otter-skin bullet-pouch with its clear powder-horn and white bone charger. In
his belt were two huge flint-lock pistols and a long case-knife.

"Bon jour, Ma'm'selle Adrienne," he cheerily called, waving his free hand in greeting to a
small, dark lass standing on the step of a veranda and indolently swinging a broom. "Comment
allez-vous auj ourd'hui?"

"J'm'porte tres bien, merci, Mo'sieu Rene," was the quick response; "et vous?"

"Oh, I'm as lively as a cricket."

"Going a hunting?"

"No, just up here a little way--just on business--up to Mo'sieu Roussillon's for a moment."

"Yes," the girl responded in a tone indicative of something very like spleen, "yes, undoubtedly,
Mo'sieu de Ronville; your business there seems quite pressing of late. I have noticed your
industrious application to that business."

"Ta-ta, little one," he wheedled, lowering his voice; "you mustn't go to making bug-bears out
of nothing."

"Bug-bears!" she retorted, "you go on about your business and I'll attend to mine," and she
flirted into the house.

Rene laughed under his breath, standing a moment as if expecting her to come out again; but
she did not, and he resumed his walk singing softly--

"Elle a les joues vermeilles, vermeilles, Ma belle, ma belle petite."

But ten to one he was not thinking of Madamoiselle Adrienne Bourcier. His mind, however, must
have been absorbingly occupied; for in the straight, open way he met Father Beret and did not
see him until he came near bumping against the old man, who stepped aside with astonishing
agility and said--

"Dieu vous benisse, mon fils; but what is your great hurry--where can you be going in such
happy haste?" Rene did not stop to parley with the priest. He flung some phrase of pleasant
greeting back over his shoulder as he trudged on, his heart beginning a tattoo against his
ribs when the Roussillon place came in sight, and he took hold of his mustache to pull it,
as some men must do in moments of nervousness and bashfulness. If sounds ever have color, the
humming in his ears was of a rosy hue; if thoughts ever exhale fragrance, his brain overflowed
with the sweets of violet and heliotrope.

He had in mind what he was going to say when Alice and he should be alone together. It was
a pretty speech, he thought; indeed a very thrilling little speech, by the way it stirred his
own nerve-centers as he conned it over.

Madame Roussillon met him at the door in not a very good humor.

"Is Mademoiselle Alice here?" he ventured to demand.

"Alice? no, she's not here; she's never here just when I want her most. V'la le picbois et
la grive--see the woodpecker and the robin--eating the cherries, eating every one of them,
and that girl running off somewhere instead of staying here and picking them," she railed in
answer to the young man's polite inquiry. "I haven't seen her these four hours, neither her
nor that rascally hunchback, Jean. They're up to some mischief, I'll be bound!"

Madame Roussillon puffed audibly between phrases; but she suddenly became very mild when relieved
of her tirade.

"Mais entrez," she added in a pleasant tone, "come in and tell me the news."

Rene's disappointment rushed into his face, but he managed to laugh it aside.

"Father Beret has just been telling me," said Madame Roussillon, "that our friend Long-Hair
made some trouble last night. How about it?"

Rene told her what he knew and added that Long-Hair would probably never be seen again.

"He was shot, no doubt of it," he went on, "and is now being nibbled by fish and turtles. We
tracked him by his blood to where he jumped into the Wabash. He never came out."

Strangely enough it happened that, at the very time of this chat between Madame Roussillon
and Rene Alice was bandaging Long-Hair's wounded leg with strips of her apron. It was under
some willows which overhung the bank of a narrow and shallow lagoon or slough, which in those
days extended a mile or two back into the country on the farther side of the river. Alice and
Jean went over in a pirogue to see if the water lilies, haunting a pond there, were yet beginning
to bloom. They landed at a convenient spot some distance up the little lagoon, made the boat
fast by dragging its prow high ashore, and were on the point of setting out across a neck of
wet, grassy land to the pond, when a deep grunt, not unlike that of a self-satisfied pig, attracted
them to the willows, where they discovered Long-Hair, badly wounded, weltering in some black mud.

His hiding-place was cunningly chosen, save that the mire troubled him, letting him down by
slow degrees, and threatening to engulf him bodily; and he was now too weak to extricate himself.
He lifted his head and glared. His face was grimy, his hair matted with mud. Alice, although
brave enough and quite accustomed to startling experiences, uttered a cry when she saw those
snaky eyes glistening so savagely amid the shadows. But Jean was quick to recognize Long-Hair;
he had often seen him about town, a figure not to be forgotten.

"They've been hunting him everywhere," he said in a half whisper to Alice, clutching the skirt
of her dress. "It's Long-Hair, the Indian who stole the brandy; I know him."

Alice recoiled a pace or two.

"Let's go back and tell 'em," Jean added, still whispering, "they want to kill him; Oncle Jazon
said so. Come on!"

He gave her dress a jerk; but she did not move any farther back; she was looking at the blood
oozing from a wound in the Indian's leg.

"He is shot, he is hurt, Jean, we must help him," she presently said, recovering her self-control,
yet still pale. "We must get him out of that bad place."

Jean caught Alice's merciful spirit with sympathetic readiness, and showed immediate willingness
to aid her.

It was a difficult thing to do; but there was a will and of course a way. They had knives with
which they cut willows to make a standing place on the mud. While they were doing this they
spoke friendly words to Long-Hair, who understood French a little, and at last they got hold
of his arms, tugged, rested, tugged again, and finally managed to help him to a dry place,
still under the willows, where he could lie more at ease. Jean carried water in his cap with
which they washed the wound and the stolid savage face. Then Alice tore up her cotton apron,
in which she had hoped to bear home a load of lilies, and with the strips bound the wound very
neatly. It took a long time, during which the Indian remained silent and apparently quite indifferent.

Long-Hair was a man of superior physique, tall, straight, with the muscles of a Vulcan; and
while he lay stretched on the ground half clad and motionless, he would have been a grand model
for an heroic figure in bronze. Yet from every lineament there came a strange repelling influence,
like that from a snake. Alice felt almost unbearable disgust while doing her merciful task;
but she bravely persevered until it was finished.

It was now late in the afternoon, and the sun would be setting before they could reach home.

"We must hurry back, Jean," Alice said, turning to depart. "It will be all we can do to reach
the other side in daylight. I'm thinking that they'll be out hunting for us too, if we don't
move right lively. Come."

She gave the Indian another glance when she had taken but a step. He grunted and held up something
in his hand--something that shone with a dull yellow light. It was a small, oval, gold locket
which she had always worn in her bosom. She sprang and snatched it from his palm.

"Thank you," she exclaimed, smiling gratefully. "I am so glad you found it."

The chain by which the locket had hung was broken, doubtless by some movement while dragging
Long-Hair out of the mud, and the lid had sprung open, exposing a miniature portrait of Alice,
painted when she was a little child, probably not two years old. It was a sweet baby face,
archly bright, almost surrounded with a fluff of golden hair. The neck and the upper line of
the plump shoulders, with a trace of richly delicate lace and a string of pearls, gave somehow
a suggestion of patrician daintiness.

Long-Hair looked keenly into Alice's eyes, when she stooped to take the locket from his hand,
but said nothing.

She and Jean now hurried away, and, so vigorously did they paddle the pirogue, that the sky
was yet red in the west when they reached home and duly received their expected scolding from
Madame Roussillon.

Alice sealed Jean's lips as to their adventure; for she had made up her mind to save Long-Hair
if possible, and she felt sure that the only way to do it would be to trust no one but Father
Beret.

It turned out that Long-Hair's wound was neither a broken bone nor a cut artery. The flesh
of his leg, midway between the hip and the knee, was pierced; the bullet had bored a neat hole
clean through. Father Beret took the case in hand, and with no little surgical skill proceeded
to set the big Indian upon his feet again. The affair had to be cleverly managed. Food, medicines
and clothing were surreptitiously borne across the river; a bed of grass was kept fresh under
Long-Hair's back; his wound was regularly dressed; and finally his weapons--a tomahawk, a knife,
a strong bow and a quiver of arrows--which he had hidden on the night of his bold theft, were
brought to him.

"Now go and sin no more," said good Father Beret; but he well knew that his words were mere
puffs of articulate wind in the ear of the grim and silent savage, who limped away with an
air of stately dignity into the wilderness.

A load fell from Alice's mind when Father Beret informed her of Long-Hair's recovery and departure.
Day and night the dread lest some of the men should find out his hiding-place and kill him
had depressed and worried her. And now, when it was all over, there still hovered like an elusive
shadow in her consciousness a vague haunting impression of the incident's immense significance
as an influence in her life. To feel that she had saved a man from death was a new sensation
of itself; but the man and the circumstances were picturesque; they invited imagination; they
furnished an atmosphere of romance dear to all young and healthy natures, and somehow stirred
her soul with a strange appeal.

Long-Hair's imperturbable calmness, his stolid, immobile countenance, the mysterious reptilian
gleam of his shifty black eyes, and the soulless expression always lurking in them, kept a
fascinating hold on the girl's memory. They blended curiously with the impressions left by
the romances she had read in M. Roussillon's mildewed books.

Long-Hair was not a young man; but it would have been impossible to guess near his age. His
form and face simply showed long experience and immeasurable vigor. Alice remembered with a
shuddering sensation the look he gave her when she took the locket from his hand. It was of
but a second's duration, yet it seemed to search every nook of her being with its subtle power.

Romancers have made much of their Indian heroes, picturing them as models of manly beauty and
nobility; but all fiction must be taken with liberal pinches of salt. The plain truth is that
dark savages of the pure blood often do possess the magnetism of perfect physical development
and unfathomable mental strangeness; but real beauty they never have. Their innate repulsiveness
is so great that, like the snake's charm, it may fascinate; yet an indescribable, haunting
disgust goes with it. And, after all, if Alice had been asked to tell just how she felt toward
the Indian she had labored so hard to save, she would promptly have said:

"I loathe him as I do a toad!"

Nor would Father Beret, put to the same test, have made a substantially different confession.
His work, to do which his life went as fuel to fire, was training the souls of Indians for
the reception of divine grace; but experience had not changed his first impression of savage
character. When he traveled in the wilderness he carried the Word and the Cross; but he was
also armed with a gun and two good pistols, not to mention a dangerous knife. The rumor prevailed
that Father Beret could drive a nail at sixty yards with his rifle, and at twenty snuff a candle
with either one of his pistols.

CHAPTER IV

THE FIRST MAYOR OF VINCENNES

Governor Abbott probably never so much as heard of the dame jeanne of French brandy sent to
him by his creole friend in New Orleans. He had been gone from Vincennes several months when
the batteau arrived, having been recalled to Detroit by the British authorities; and he never
returned. Meantime the little post with its quaint cabins and its dilapidated block-house,
called Fort Sackville, lay sunning drowsily by the river in a blissful state of helplessness
from the military point of view. There was no garrison; the two or three pieces of artillery,
abandoned and exposed, gathered rust and cobwebs, while the pickets of the stockade, decaying
and loosened in the ground by winter freezes and summer rains, leaned in all directions, a
picture of decay and inefficiency.

The inhabitants of the town, numbering about six hundred, lived very much as pleased them,
without any regular municipal government, each family its own tribe, each man a law unto himself;
yet for mutual protection, they all kept in touch and had certain common rights which were
religiously respected and defended faithfully. A large pasturing ground was fenced in where
the goats and little black cows of the villagers browsed as one herd, while the patches of
wheat, corn and vegetables were not inclosed at all. A few of the thriftier and more important
citizens, however, had separate estates of some magnitude, surrounding their residences, kept
up with care and, if the time and place be taken into account, with considerable show of taste.

Monsieur Gaspard Roussillon was looked upon as the aristocrat par excellence of Vincennes,
notwithstanding the fact that his name bore no suggestion of noble or titled ancestry. He was
rich and in a measure educated; moreover the successful man's patent of leadership, a commanding
figure and a suave manner, came always to his assistance when a crisis presented itself. He
traded shrewdly, much to his own profit, but invariably with the excellent result that the
man, white or Indian, with whom he did business felt himself especially favored in the transaction.
By the exercise of firmness, prudence, vast assumption, florid eloquence and a kindly liberality
he had greatly endeared himself to the people; so that in the absence of a military commander
he came naturally to be regarded as the chief of the town, Mo'sieu' le maire.

He returned from his extended trading expedition about the middle of July, bringing, as was
his invariable rule, a gift for Alice. This time it was a small, thin disc of white flint,
with a hole in the center through which a beaded cord of sinew was looped. The edge of the
disc was beautifully notched and the whole surface polished so that it shone like glass, while
the beads, made of very small segments of porcupine quills, were variously dyed, making a curiously
gaudy show of bright colors.

"There now, ma cherie, is something worth fifty times its weight in gold," said M. Roussillon
when he presented the necklace to his foster daughter with pardonable self-satisfaction. "It
is a sacred charm-string given me by an old heathen who would sell his soul for a pint of cheap
rum. He solemnly informed me that whoever wore it could not by any possibility be killed by
an enemy."

Alice kissed M. Roussillon.

"It's so curious and beautiful," she said, holding it up and drawing the variegated string
through her fingers. Then, with her mischievous laugh, she added; "and I'm glad it is so powerful
against one's enemy; I'll wear it whenever I go where Adrienne Bourcier is, see if I don't!"

"Is she your enemy? What's up between you and la petite Adrienne, eh?" M. Roussillon lightly
demanded. "You were always the best of good friends, I thought. What's happened?"

"Oh, we are good friends," said Alice, quickly, "very good friends, indeed; I was but chaffing."

"Good friends, but enemies; that's how it is with women. Who's the young man that's caused
the coolness? I could guess, maybe!" He laughed and winked knowingly. "May I be so bold as
to name him at a venture?"

"Yes, if you'll be sure to mention Monsieur Rene de Ronville," she gayly answered. "Who but
he could work Adrienne up into a perfect green mist of jealousy?"

"He would need an accomplice, I should imagine; a young lady of some beauty and a good deal
of heartlessness."

"Like whom, for example?" and she tossed her bright head. "Not me, I am sure."

"Poh! like every pretty maiden in the whole world, ma petite coquette; they're all alike as
peas, cruel as blue jays and as sweet as apple-blossoms." He stroked her hair clumsily with
his large hand, as a heavy and roughly fond man is apt to do, adding in an almost serious tone:

"But my little girl is better than most of them, not a foolish mischief-maker, I hope."

Alice was putting her head through the string of beads and letting the translucent white disc
fall into her bosom.

"It's time to change the subject," she said; "tell me what you have seen while away. I wish
I could go far off and see things. Have you been to Detroit, Quebec, Montreal?"

"Yes, I've been to all, a long, hard journey, but reasonably profitable. You shall have a goodly
dot when you get married, my child."

"And did you attend any parties and balls?" she inquired quickly, ignoring his concluding remark.
"Tell me about them. How do the fine ladies dress, and do they wear their hair high with great
big combs? Do they have long skirts and--"

"Hold up, you double-tongued chatterbox!" he interrupted; "I can't answer forty questions at
once. Yes, I danced till my legs ached with women old and girls young; but how could I remember
how they were dressed and what their style of coiffure was? I know that silk rustled and there
was a perfume of eau de Cologne and mignonette and my heart expanded and blazed while I whirled
like a top with a sweet lady in my arms."

"Yes, you must have cut a ravishing figure!" interpolated Madame Roussillon with emphatic disapproval,
her eyes snapping. "A bull in a lace shop. How delighted the ladies must have been!"

"Never saw such blushing faces and burning glances--such fluttering breasts, such--"

"Big braggart," Madame Roussillon broke in contemptuously, "it's a piastre to a sou that you
stood gawping in through a window while gentlemen and ladies did the dancing. I can imagine
how you looked--I can!" and with this she took her prodigious bulk at a waddling gait out of
the room. "I remember how you danced even when you were not clumsy as a pig on ice!" she shrieked
back over her shoulder.

"Parbleu! true enough, my dear," he called after her, "I should think you could--you mind how
we used trip it together. You were the prettiest dancer them all, and the young fellows all
went to the swords about you!"

"But tell me more," Alice insisted; "I want to know about what you saw in the great towns--in
the fine houses--how the ladies looked, how they acted--what they said--the dresses they wore--how--"

"Ciel! you will split my ears, child; can't you fill my pipe and bring it to me with a coal
on it? Then I'll try to tell you what I can," he cried, assuming a humorously resigned air.
"Perhaps if I smoke I can remember everything."

Alice gladly ran to do what he asked. Meantime Jean was out on the gallery blowing a flute
that M. Roussillon had brought him from Quebec.

The pipe well filled and lighted apparently did have the effect to steady and encourage M.
Roussillon's memory; or if not his memory, then his imagination, which was of that fervid and
liberal sort common to natives of the Midi, and which has been exquisitely depicted by the
late Alphonse Daudet in Tartarin and Bompard. He leaned far back in a strong chair, with his
massive legs stretched at full length, and gazed at the roof-poles while he talked.

He sympathized fully, in his crude way, with Alice's lively curiosity, and his affection for
her made him anxious to appease her longing after news from the great outside world. If the
sheer truth must come out, however, he knew precious little about that world, especially the
polite part of it in which thrived those femininities so dear to the heart of an isolated and
imaginative girl. Still, as he, too, lived in Arcadia, there was no great effort involved when
he undertook to blow a dreamer's flute.

In the first place he had not been in Quebec or Montreal during his absence from home. Most
of the time he had spent disposing of pelts and furs at Detroit and in extending his trading
relations with other posts; but what mattered a trifling want of facts when his meridional
fancy once began to warm up? A smattering of social knowledge gained at first hand in his youthful
days in France while he was a student whose parents fondly expected him to conquer the world,
came to his aid, and besides he had saturated himself all his life with poetry and romance.
Scudery, Scarron, Prevost, Madame La Fayette and Calprenede were the chief sources of his information
touching the life and manners, morals and gayeties of people who, as he supposed, stirred the
surface of that resplendent and far-off ocean called society. Nothing suited him better than
to smoke a pipe and talk about what he had seen and done; and the less he had really seen and
done the more he had to tell.

His broad, almost over-virile, kindly and contented face beamed with the warmth of wholly imaginary
recollections while he recounted with minute circumstantiality to the delighted Alice his gallant
adventures in the crowded and brilliant ball-rooms of the French-Canadian towns. The rolling
burr of his bass voice, deep and resonant, gave force to the improvised descriptions.

Madame Roussillon heard the heavy booming and presently came softly back into the door from
the kitchen to listen. She leaned against the facing in an attitude of ponderous attention,
a hand, on her bulging hip. She could not suppress her unbounded admiration of her liege lord's
manly physique, and jealous to fierceness as she was of his experiences so eloquently and picturesquely
related, her woman's nature took fire with enjoyment of the scenes described.

This is the mission of the poet and the romancer--to sponge out of existence, for a time, the
stiff, refractory, and unlovely realities and give in their place a scene of ideal mobility
and charm. The two women reveled in Gaspard Roussillon's revelations. They saw the brilliant
companies, the luxurious surroundings, heard the rustle of brocade and the fine flutter of
laces, the hum of sweet voices, breathed in the wafts of costly perfumeries, looked on while
the dancers whirled and flickered in the confusion of lights; and over all and through all
poured and vibrated such ravishing music as only the southern imagination could have conjured
up out of nothing.

Alice was absolutely charmed. She sat on a low wooden stool and gazed into Gaspard Roussillon's
face with dilating eyes in which burned that rich and radiant something we call a passionate
soul. She drank in his flamboyant stream of words with a thirst which nothing but experience
could ever quench. He felt her silent applause and the admiring involuntary absorption that
possessed his wife; the consciousness of his elementary magnetism augmented the flow of his
fine descriptions, and he went on and on, until the arrival of Father Beret put an end to it all.

The priest, hearing of M. Roussillon's return, had come to inquire about some friends living
at Detroit. He took luncheon with the family, enjoying the downright refreshing collation of
broiled birds, onions, meal-cakes and claret, ending with a dish of blackberries and cream.

M. Roussillon seized the first opportunity to resume his successful romancing, and presently
in the midst of the meal began to tell Father Beret about what he had seen in Quebec.

"By the way," he said, with expansive casualness in his voice, "I called upon your old-time
friend and co-adjutor, Father Sebastien, while up there. A noble old man. He sent you a thousand
good messages. Was mightily delighted when I told him how happy and hale you have always been
here. Ah, you should have seen his dear old eyes full of loving tears. He would walk a hundred
miles to see you, he said, but never expected to in this world. Blessings, blessings upon dear
Father Beret, was what he murmured in my ear when we were parting. He says that he will never
leave Quebec until he goes to his home above--ah!"

The way in which M. Roussillon closed his little speech, his large eyes upturned, his huge
hands clasped in front of him, was very effective.

"I am under many obligations, my son," said Father Beret, "for what you tell me. It was good
of you to remember my dear old friend and go to him for his loving messages to me. I am very,
very thankful. Help me to another drop of wine, please."

Now the extraordinary feature of the situation was that Father Beret had known positively for
nearly five years that Father Sebastien was dead and buried.

"Ah, yes," M. Roussillon continued, pouring the claret with one hand and making a pious gesture
with the other; "the dear old man loves you and prays for you; his voice quavers whenever he
speaks of you."

"Doubtless he made his old joke to you about the birth-mark on my shoulder," said Father Beret
after a moment of apparently thoughtful silence. "He may have said something about it in a
playful way, eh?"

"True, true, why yes, he surely mentioned the same," assented M. Roussillon, his face assuming
an expression of confused memory; "it was something sly and humorous, I mind; but it just escapes
my recollection. A right jolly old boy is Father Sebastien; indeed very amusing at times."

"At times, yes," said Father Beret, who had no birth-mark on his shoulder, and had never had
one there, or on any other part of his person.

"How strange!" Alice remarked, "I, too, have a mark on my shoulder--a pink spot, just like
a small, five-petaled flower. We must be of kin to each other, Father Beret."

The priest laughed.

"If our marks are alike, that would be some evidence of kinship," he said.

"But what shape is yours, Father?"

"I've never seen it," he responded.

"Never seen it! Why?"

"Well, it's absolutely invisible," and he chuckled heartily, meantime glancing shrewdly at
M. Roussillon out of the tail of his eye.

"It's on the back part of his shoulder," quickly spoke up M. Roussillon, "and you know priests
never use looking-glasses. The mark is quite invisible therefore, so far as Father Beret is
concerned!"

"You never told me of your birth-mark before, my daughter," said Father Beret, turning to Alice
with sudden interest. "It may some day be good fortune to you."

"Why so, Father?"

"If your family name is really Tarleton, as you suppose from the inscription on your locket,
the birth-mark, being of such singular shape, would probably identify you. It is said that
these marks run regularly in families. With the miniature and the distinguishing birth-mark
you have enough to make a strong case should you once find the right Tarleton family."

"You talk as they write in novels," said Alice. "I've read about just such things in them.
Wouldn't it be grand if I should turn out to be some great personage in disguise!"

The mention of novels reminded Father Beret of that terrible book, Manon Lescaut, which he
last saw in Alice's possession, and he could not refrain from mentioning it in a voice that
shuddered.

"Rest easy, Father Beret," said Alice; "that is one novel I have found wholly distasteful to
me. I tried to read it, but could not do it, I flung it aside in utter disgust. You and mother
Roussillon are welcome to hide it deep as a well, for all I care. I don't enjoy reading about
low, vile people and hopeless unfortunates; I like sweet and lovely heroines and strong, high-souled,
brave heroes."

"Read about the blessed saints, then, my daughter; you will find in them the true heroes and
heroines of this world," said Father Beret.

M. Roussillon changed the subject, for he always somehow dreaded to have the good priest fall
into the strain of argument he was about to begin. A stray sheep, no matter how refractory,
feels a touch of longing when it hears the shepherd's voice. M. Roussillon was a Catholic,
but a straying one, who avoided the confessional and often forgot mass. Still, with all his
reckless independence, and with all his outward show of large and breezy self-sufficiency,
he was not altogether free from the hold that the church had laid upon him in childhood and
youth. Moreover, he was fond of Father Beret and had done a great deal for the little church
of St. Xavier and the mission it represented; but he distinctly desired to be let alone while
he pursued his own course; and he had promised the dying woman who gave Alice to him that the
child should be left as she was, a Protestant, without undue influence to change her from the
faith of her parents. This promise he had kept with stubborn persistence and he meant to keep
it as long as he lived. Perhaps the very fact that his innermost conscience smote him with
vague yet telling blows at times for this departure from the strict religion of his fathers,
may have intensified his resistance of the influence constantly exerted upon Alice by Father
Beret and Madame Roussillon, to bring her gently but surely to the church. Perverseness is
a force to be reckoned with in all original characters.

A few weeks had passed after M. Roussillon's return, when that big-hearted man took it into
his head to celebrate his successful trading ventures with a moonlight dance given without
reserve to all the inhabitants of Vincennes. It was certainly a democratic function that he
contemplated, and motley to a most picturesque extent.

Rene de Ronville called upon Alice a day or two previous to the occasion and duly engaged her
as his partenaire; but she insisted upon having the engagement guarded in her behalf by a condition
so obviously fanciful that he accepted it without argument.

"If my wandering knight should arrive during the dance, you promise to stand aside and give
place to him," she stipulated. "You promise that? You see I'm expecting him all the time. I
dreamed last night that he came on a great bay horse and, stooping, whirled me up behind the
saddle, and away we went!"

There was a childish, half bantering air in her look; but her voice sounded earnest and serious,
notwithstanding its delicious timbre of suppressed playfulness.

"You promise me?" she insisted.

"Oh, I promise to slink away into a corner and chew my thumb, the moment he comes," Rene eagerly
assented. "Of course I'm taking a great risk, I know; for lords and barons and knights are
very apt to appear Suddenly in a place like this."

"You may banter and make light if you want to," she said, pouting admirably. "I don't care.
All the same the laugh will jump to the other corner of your mouth, see if it doesn't. They
say that what a person dreams about and wishes for and waits for and believes in, will come
true sooner or later."

"If that's so," said Rene, "you and I will get married; for I've dreamed it every night of
the year, wished for it, waited for it and believed in it, and--"

It was a madly sudden rush. He made it on an impulse quite irresistible, as hypnotized persons
are said to do in response to the suggestion of the hypnotist, and his heart was choking his
throat before he could end his speech. Alice interrupted him with a hearty burst of laughter.

"A very pretty twist you give to my words, I must declare," she said; "but not new by any means.
Little Adrienne Bourcier could tell you that. She says that you have vowed to her over and
over that you dream about her, and wish for her, and wait for her, precisely as you have just
said to me."

Rene's brown face flushed to the temples, partly with anger, partly with the shock of mingled
surprise and fear. He was guilty, and the guilt showed in his eyes and paralyzed his tongue,
so that he sat there before Alice with his under jaw sagging ludicrously.

"Don't you rather think, Monsieur Rene de Ronville," she presently added in a calmly advisory
tone, "that you had better quit trying to say such foolish things to me, and just be my very
good friend? If you don't, I do, which comes to the same thing. What's more, I won't be your
partenaire at the dance unless you promise me on your word of honor that you will dance two
dances with Adrienne to every one that you have with me. Do you promise?"

He dared not oppose her outwardly, although in his heart resistance amounted to furious revolt
and riot.

"I promise anything you ask me to," he said resignedly, almost sullenly; "anything for you."

"Well, I ask nothing whatever on my own account," Alice quickly replied; "but I do tell you
firmly that you shall not maltreat little Adrienne Bourcier and remain a friend of mine. She
loves you, Rene de Ronville, and you have told her that you love her. If you are a man worthy
of respect you will not desert her. Don't you think I am right?"

Like a singed and crippled moth vainly trying to rise once again to the alluring yet deadly
flame, Rene de Ronville essayed to break out of his embarrassment and resume equal footing
with the girl so suddenly become his commanding superior; but the effort disclosed to him as
well as to her that he had fallen to rise no more. In his abject defeat he accepted the terms
dictated by Alice and was glad when she adroitly changed her manner and tone in going on to
discuss the approaching dance.

"Now let me make one request of you," he demanded after a while. "It's a small favor; may I
ask it?"

"Yes, but I don't grant it in advance."

"I want you to wear, for my sake, the buff gown which they say was your grandmother's."

"No, I won't wear it."

"But why, Alice?"

"None of the other girls have anything like such a dress; it would not be right for me to put
it on and make them all feel that I had taken the advantage of them, just because I could;
that's why."

"But then none of them is beautiful and educated like you," he said; "you'll outshine them anyway."

"Save your compliments for poor pretty little Adrienne," she firmly responded, "I positively
do not wish to hear them. I have agreed to be your partenaire at this dance of Papa Roussillon's,
but it is understood between us that Adrienne is your sweet-heart. I am not, and I'm not going
to be, either. So for your sake and Adrienne's, as well as out of consideration for the rest
of the girls who have no fine dresses, I am not going to wear the buff brocade gown that belonged
to Papa Roussillon's mother long ago. I shall dress just as the rest do."

It is safe to say that Rene de Ronville went home with a troublesome bee in his bonnet. He
was not a bad-hearted fellow. Many a right good young man, before him and since, has loved
an Adrienne and been dazzled by an Alice. A violet is sweet, but a rose is the garden's queen.
The poor youthful frontiersman ought to have been stronger; but he was not, and what have we
to say?

As for Alice, since having a confidential talk with Adrienne Bourcier recently, she had come
to realize what M. Roussillon meant when he said; "But my little girl is better than most of
them, not a foolish mischief-maker, I hope." She saw through the situation with a quick understanding
of what Adrienne might suffer should Rene prove permanently fickle. The thought of it aroused
all her natural honesty and serious nobleness of character, which lay deep under the almost
hoydenish levity usually observable in her manner. Crude as her sense of life's larger significance
was, and meager as had been her experience in the things which count for most in the sum of
a young girl's existence under fair circumstances, she grasped intuitively the gist of it all.

The dance did not come off; it had to be postponed indefinitely on account of a grave change
in the political relations of the little post. A day or two before the time set for that function
a rumor ran through the town that something of importance was about to happen. Father Gibault,
at the head of a small party, had arrived from Kaskaskia, far away on the Mississippi, with
the news that France and the American Colonies had made common cause against the English in
the great war of which the people of Vincennes neither knew the cause nor cared a straw about
the outcome.

It was Oncle Jazon who came to the Roussillon place to tell M. Roussillon that he was wanted
at the river house. Alice met him at the door.

"Come in, Oncle Jazon," she cheerily said, "you are getting to be a stranger at our house lately.
Come in; what news do you bring? Take off your cap and rest your hair, Oncle Jazon."

The scalpless old fighter chuckled raucously and bowed to the best of his ability. He not only
took off his queer cap, but looked into it with a startled gaze, as if he expected something
infinitely dangerous to jump out and seize his nose.

"A thousand thanks, Ma'm'selle," he presently said, "will ye please tell Mo'sieu' Roussillon
that I would wish to see 'im?"

"Yes, Oncle Jazon; but first be seated, and let me offer you just a drop of eau de vie; some
that Papa Roussillon brought back with him from Quebec. He says it's old and fine."

She poured him a full glass, then setting the bottle on a little stand, went to find M. Roussillon.
While she was absent Oncle Jazon improved his opportunity to the fullest extent. At least three
additional glasses of the brandy went the way of the first. He grinned atrociously and smacked
his corrugated lips; but when Gaspard Roussillon came in, the old man was sitting at some distance
from the bottle and glass gazing indifferently out across the veranda. He told his story curtly.
Father Gibault, he said, had sent him to ask M. Roussillon to come to the river house, as he
had news of great importance to communicate.

"Ah, well, Oncle Jazon, we'll have a nip of brandy together before we go," said the host.

"Why, yes, jes' one agin' the broilin' weather," assented Oncle Jazon; "I don't mind jes' one."

"A very rich friend of mine in Quebec gave me this brandy, Oncle Jazon," said M. Roussillon,
pouring the liquor with a grand flourish; "and I thought of you as soon as I got it. Now, says
I to myself, if any man knows good brandy when he tastes it, it's Oncle Jazon, and I'll give
him a good chance at this bottle just the first of all my friends."

"It surely is delicious," said Oncle Jazon, "very delicious." He spoke French with a curious
accent, having spent long years with English-speaking frontiersmen in the Carolinas and Kentucky,
so that their lingo had become his own.

As they walked side by side down the way to the river house they looked like typical extremes
of rough, sun-burned and weather-tanned manhood; Oncle Jazon a wizened, diminutive scrap, wrinkled
and odd in every respect; Gaspard Roussillon towering six feet two, wide shouldered, massive,
lumbering, muscular, a giant with long curling hair and a superb beard. They did not know that
they were going down to help dedicate the great Northwest to freedom.

CHAPTER V

FATHER GIBAULT

Great movements in the affairs of men are like tides of the seas which reach and affect the
remotest and quietest nooks and inlets, imparting a thrill and a swell of the general motion.
Father Gibault brought the wave of the American Revolution to Vincennes. He was a simple missionary;
but he was, besides, a man of great worldly knowledge and personal force. Colonel George Rogers
Clark made Father Gibault's acquaintance at Kaskaskia, when the fort and its garrison surrendered
to his command, and, quickly discerning the fine qualities of the priest's character, sent
him to the post on the Wabash to win over its people to the cause of freedom and independence.
Nor was the task assumed a hard one, as Father Gibault probably well knew before he undertook it.

A few of the leading men of Vincennes, presided over by Gaspard Roussillon, held a consultation
at the river house, and it was agreed that a mass meeting should be called bringing all of
the inhabitants together in the church for the purpose of considering the course to be taken
under the circumstances made known by Father Gibault. Oncle Jazon constituted himself an executive
committee of one to stir up a noise for the occasion.

It was a great day for Vincennes. The volatile temperament of the French frontiersmen bubbled
over with enthusiasm at the first hint of something new, and revolutionary in which they might
be expected to take part. Without knowing in the least what it was that Father Gibault and
Oncle Jazon wanted of them, they were all in favor of it at a venture.

Rene de Ronville, being an active and intelligent young man, was sent about through the town
to let everybody know of the meeting. In passing he stepped into the cabin of Father Beret,
who was sitting on the loose puncheon floor, with his back turned toward the entrance and so
absorbed in trying to put together a great number of small paper fragments that he did not
hear or look up.

"Are you not going to the meeting, Father?" Rene bluntly demanded. In the hurry that was on
him he did not remember to be formally polite, as was his habit.

The old priest looked up with a startled face. At the same time he swept the fragments of paper
together and clutched them hard in his right hand. "Yes, yes, my son--yes I am going, but the
time has not yet come for it, has it?" he stammered. "Is it late?"

He sprang to his feet and appeared confused, as if caught in doing something very improper.

Rene wondered at this unusual behavior, but merely said:

"I beg pardon, Father Beret, I did not mean to disturb you," and went his way.

Father Beret stood for some minutes as if dazed, then squeezed the paper fragments into a tight
ball, just as they were when he took them from under the floor some time before Rene came in,
and put it in his pocket. A little later he was kneeling, as we have seen him once before,
in silent yet fervent prayer, his clasped hands lifted toward the crucifix on the wall.

"Jesus, give me strength to hold on and do my work," he murmured beseechingly, "and oh, free
thy poor servant from bitter temptation."

Father Gibault had come prepared to use his eloquence upon the excitable Creoles, and with
considerable cunning he addressed a motley audience at the church, telling them that an American
force had taken Kaskaskia and would henceforth hold it; that France had joined hands with the
Americans against the British, and that it was the duty of all Frenchmen to help uphold the
cause of freedom and independence.

"I come," said he, "directly from Colonel George Rogers Clark, a noble and brave officer of
the American army, who told me the news that I have brought to you. He sent me here to say
to you that if you will give allegiance to his government you shall be protected against all
enemies and have the full freedom of citizens. I think you should do this without a moment's
hesitation, as I and my people at Kaskaskia have already done. But perhaps you would like to
have a word from your distinguished fellow-citizen, Monsieur Gaspard Roussillon. Speak to your
friends, my son, they will be glad to take counsel of your wisdom."

There was a stir and a craning of necks. M. Roussillon presently appeared near the little chancel,
his great form towering majestically. He bowed and waved his hand with the air of one who accepts
distinction as a matter of course; then he took his big silver watch and looked at it. He was
the only man in Vincennes who owned a watch, and so the incident was impressive. Father Gibault
looked pleased, and already a murmur of applause went through the audience. M. Roussillon stroked
the bulging crystal of the time-piece with a circular motion of his thumb and bowed again,
clearing his throat resonantly, his face growing purplish above his beard.

"Good friends," he said, "what France does all high-class Frenchmen applaud." He paused for
a shout of approbation, and was not disappointed. "The other name for France is glory," he
added, "and all true Frenchmen love both names. I am a true Frenchman!" and he struck his breast
a resounding blow with the hand that still held the watch. A huge horn button on his buckskin
jerkin came in contact with the crystal, and there was a smash, followed by a scattered tinkling
of glass fragments.

All Vincennes stood breathless, contemplating the irreparable accident. M. Roussillon had lost
the effect of a great period in his speech, but he was quick. Lifting the watch to his ear,
he listened a moment with superb dignity, then slowly elevating his head and spreading his
free hand over his heart he said:

"The faithful time-piece still tells off the seconds, and the loyal heart of its owner still
throbs with patriotism."

Oncle Jazon, who stood in front of the speaker, swung his shapeless cap as high as he could
and yelled like a savage. Then the crowd went wild for a time.

"Vive la France! A bas l' Angleterre!" Everybody shouted at the top of his voice.

"What France does we all do," continued M. Roussillon, when the noise subsided. "France has
clasped hands with George Washington and his brave compatriots; so do we."

"Vive Zhorzh Vasinton!" shrieked Oncle Jazon in a piercing treble, tiptoeing and shaking his
cap recklessly under M. Roussillon's nose.

The orator winced and jerked his head back, but nobody saw it, save perhaps Father Gibault,
who laughed heartily.

Great sayings come suddenly, unannounced and unexpected. They have the mysterious force of
prophetic accident combined with happy economy of phrasing. The southern blood in M. Roussillon's
veins was effervescing upon his brain; his tongue had caught the fine freedom and abandon of
inspired oratory. He towered and glowed; words fell melodiously from his lips; his gestures
were compelling, his visage magnetic. In conclusion he said:

"Frenchmen, America is the garden-spot of the world and will one day rule it, as did Rome of
old. Where freedom makes her home, there is the centre of power!"

It was in a little log church on the verge of a hummock overlooking a marshy wild meadow. Westward
for two thousand miles stretched the unbroken prairies, woods, mountains, deserts reaching
to the Pacific; southward for a thousand miles rolled the green billows of the wilderness to
the warm Gulf shore; northward to the pole and eastward to the thin fringe of settlements beyond
the mountains, all was houseless solitude.

If the reader should go to Vincennes to-day and walk southward along Second Street to its intersection
with Church Street, the spot then under foot would be probably very near where M. Roussillon
stood while uttering his great sentence. Mind you, the present writer does not pretend to know
the exact site of old Saint Xavier church. If it could be fixed beyond doubt the spot should
have an imperishable monument of Indiana stone.

When M, Roussillon ceased speaking the audience again exhausted its vocal resources; and then
Father Gibault called upon each man to come forward and solemnly pledge his loyalty to the
American cause. Not one of them hesitated.

Meantime a woman was doing her part in the transformation of Post Vincennes from a French-English
picket to a full-fledged American fort and town. Madame Godere, finding out what was about
to happen, fell to work making a flag in imitation of that under which George Washington was
fighting. Alice chanced to be in the Godere home at the time and joined enthusiastically in
the sewing. It was an exciting task. Their fingers trembled while they worked, and the thread,
heavily coated with beeswax, squeaked as they drew it through the cloth.

"We shall not be in time," said Madame Godere; "I know we shall not. Everything hinders me.
My thread breaks or gets tangled and my needle's so rusty I can hardly stick it through the
cloth. O dear!"

Alice encouraged her with both words and work, and they had almost finished when Rene came
with a staff which he had brought from the fort.

"Mon dieu, but we have had a great meeting!" he cried. He was perspiring with excitement and
fast walking; leaning on the staff he mopped his face with a blue handkerchief.

"We heard much shouting and noise," said Madame Godere, "M. Roussillon's voice rose loud above
the rest. He roared like a lion."

"Ah, he was speaking to us; he was very eloquent," Rene replied. "But now they are waiting
at the fort for the new flag. I have come for it."

"It is ready," said Madame Godere.

With flying fingers Alice sewed it to the staff.

"Voici!" she cried, "vive la republique Americaine!" She lifted the staff and let the flag
droop over her from head to foot.

"Give it to me," said Rene, holding forth a hand for it, "and I'll run to the fort with it."

"No," said Alice, her face suddenly lighting up with resolve. "No, I am going to take it myself,"
and without a moment's delay off she went.

Rene was so caught by surprise that he stood gazing after her until she passed behind a house,
where the way turned, the shining flag rippling around her, and her moccasins twinkling as she ran.

At the blockhouse, awaiting the moment when the symbol of freedom should rise like a star over
old Vincennes the crowd had picturesquely broken into scattered groups. Alice entered through
a rent in the stockade, as that happened to be a shorter route than through the gate, and appeared
suddenly almost in their midst.

It was a happy surprise, a pretty and catching spectacular apparition of a sort to be thoroughly
appreciated by the lively French fancy of the audience. The caught the girl's spirit, or it
caught them, and they made haste to be noisy.

"V'la! V'la! l'p'tite Alice et la bannlere de Zhorzh Vasinton! (Look, look, little Alice and
George Washington's flag!)" shouted Oncle Jazon. He put his wiry little legs through a sort
of pas de zephyr and winked at himself with concentrated approval.

All the men danced around and yelled till they were hoarse.

By this time Rene had reached Alice's side; but she did not see him; she ran into the blockhouse
and climbed up a rude ladder-way; then she appeared on the roof, still accompanied by Rene,
and planted the staff in a crack of the slabs, where it stood bravely up, the colors floating free.

She looked down and saw M. Roussillon, Father Gibault and Father Beret grouped in the centre
of the area. They were waving their hands aloft at her, while a bedlam of voices sent up applause
which went through her blood like strong wine. She smiled radiantly, and a sweet flush glowed
in her cheeks.

No one of all that wild crowd could ever forget the picture sketched so boldly at that moment
when, after planting the staff, Alice stepped back a space and stood strong and beautiful against
the soft blue sky. She glanced down first, then looked up, her arms folded across her bosom.
It was a pose as unconsciously taken as that of a bird, and the grace of it went straight to
the hearts of those below.

She turned about to descend, and for the first time saw that Rene had followed her. His face
was beaming.

"What a girl you are!" he exclaimed, in a tone of exultant admiration. "Never was there another
like you!"

Alice walked quickly past him without speaking; for down in the space where some women were
huddled aside from the crowd, looking on, she had seen little Adrienne Bourcier. She made haste
to descend. Now that her impulsively chosen enterprise was completed her boldness deserted
her and she slipped out through a dilapidated postern opposite the crowd. On her right was
the river, while southward before her lay a great flat plain, beyond which rose some hillocks
covered with forest. The sun blazed between masses of slowly drifting clouds that trailed creeping
fantastic shadows across the marshy waste.

Alice walked along under cover of the slight landswell which then, more plainly marked than
it is now, formed the contour line of hummock upon which the fort and village stood. A watery
swale grown full of tall aquatic weeds meandered parallel with the bluff, so to call it, and
there was a soft melancholy whispering of wind among the long blades and stems. She passed
the church and Father Beret's hut and continued for some distance in the direction of that
pretty knoll upon which the cemetery is at present so tastefully kept. She felt shy now, as
if to run away and hide would be a great relief. Indeed, so relaxed were her nerves that a
slight movement in the grass and cat-tail flags near by startled her painfully, making her
jump like a fawn.

"Little friend not be 'fraid," said a guttural voice in broken French. "Little friend not make
noise."

At a glance she recognized Long-Hair, the Indian, rising out of the matted marsh growth. It
was a hideous vision of embodied cunning, soullessness and murderous cruelty.

"Not tell white man you see me?" he grunted interrogatively, stepping close to her. He looked
so wicked that she recoiled and lifted her hands defensively.

She trembled from head to foot, and her voice failed her; but she made a negative sign and
smiled at him, turning as white as her tanned face could become.

In his left hand he held his bow, while in his right he half lifted a murderous looking tomahawk.

"What new flag mean?" he demanded, waving the bow's end toward the fort and bending his head
down close to hers. "Who yonder?"

"The great American Father has taken us under his protection," she explained. "We are big-knives
now." It almost choked her to speak.

"Ugh! heap damn fools," he said with a dark scowl. "Little friend much damn fool."

He straightened up his tall form and stood leering at her for some seconds, then added:

"Little friend get killed, scalped, maybe."

The indescribable nobility of animal largeness, symmetry and strength showed in his form and
attitude, but the expression of his countenance was absolutely repulsive--cold, hard, beastly.

He did not speak again, but turned quickly, and stooping low, disappeared like a great brownish
red serpent in the high grass, which scarcely stirred as he moved through it.

Somehow that day made itself strangely memorable to Alice. She had been accustomed to stirring
scenes and sudden changes of conditions; but this was the first time that she had ever joined
actively in a public movement of importance. Then, too, Long-Hair's picturesque and rudely
dramatic reappearance affected her imagination with an indescribable force. Moreover, the pathetic
situation in the love affair between Rene and Adrienne had taken hold of her conscience with
a disturbing grip. But the shadowy sense of impending events, of which she could form no idea,
was behind it all. She had not heard of Brandywine, or Bunker Hill, or Lexington, or Concord;
but something like a waft of their significance had blown through her mind. A great change
was coming into her idyllic life. She was indistinctly aware of it, as we sometimes are of
an approaching storm, while yet the sky is sweetly blue and serene. When she reached home the
house was full of people to whom M. Roussillon, in the gayest of moods, was dispensing wine
and brandy.

"Vive Zhorzh Vasinton!" shouted Oncle Jazon as soon as he saw her.

And then they all talked at once, saying flattering things about her. Madame Roussillon tried
to scold as usual; but the lively chattering of the guests drowned her voice.

"I suppose the American commander will send a garrison here," some one said to Father Gibault,
"and repair the fort."

"Probably," the priest replied, "in a very few weeks. Meantime we will garrison it ourselves."

"And we will have M. Roussillon for commander," spoke up Rene de Ronville, who was standing by.

"A good suggestion," assented Father Gibault; "let us organize at once."

Immediately the word was passed that there would be a meeting at the fort that evening for
the purpose of choosing a garrison and a commander. Everybody went promptly at the hour set.
M. Roussillon was elected Captain by acclamation, with Rene de Ronville as his Lieutenant.
It was observed that Oncle Jazon had resumed his dignity, and that he looked into his cap several
times without speaking.

Meantime certain citizens, who had been in close relations with Governor Abbott during his
stay, quietly slipped out of town, manned a batteau and went up the river, probably to Ouiatenon
first and then to Detroit. Doubtless they suspected that things might soon grow too warm for
their comfort.

It was thus that Vincennes and Fort Sackville first acknowledged the American Government and
hoisted the flag which, as long as it floated over the blockhouse, was lightly and lovingly
called by everyone la banniere d'Alice Roussillon.

Father Gibault returned to Fort Kaskaskia and a little later Captain Leonard Helm, a jovial
man, but past the prime of life, arrived at Vincennes with a commission from Col. Clark authorizing
him to supersede M. Roussillon as commander, and to act as Indian agent for the American Government
in the Department of the Wabash. He was welcomed by the villagers, and at once made himself
very pleasing to them by adapting himself to their ways and entering heartily into their social
activities.

M. Roussillon was absent when Captain Helm and his party came. Rene de Ronville, nominally
in command of the fort, but actually enjoying some excellent grouse shooting with a bell-mouthed
old fowling piece on a distant prairie, could not be present to deliver up the post; and as
there was no garrison just then visible, Helm took possession, without any formalities.

"I think, Lieutenant, that you'd better look around through the village and see if you can
scare up this Captain what's-his-name," said the new commander to a stalwart young officer
who had come with him. "I can't think of these French names without getting my brain in a twist.
Do you happen to recollect the Captain's name, Lieutenant?"

"Yes, sir; Gaspard Roussillon it reads in Colonel Clark's order; but I am told that he's away
on a trading tour," said the young man.

"You may be told anything by these hair-tongued parlyvoos," Helm remarked. "It won't hurt,
anyway, to find out where he lives and make a formal call, just for appearance sake, and to
enquire about his health. I wish you would try it, sir, and let me know the result."

The Lieutenant felt that this was a peremptory order and turned about to obey promptly.

"And I say, Beverley, come back sober, if you possibly can," Helm added in his most genial
tone, thinking it a great piece of humor to suggest sobriety to a man whose marked difference
from men generally, of that time, was his total abstinence from intoxicating drinks.

Lieutenant Fitzhugh Beverley was a Virginian of Virginians. His family had long been prominent
in colonial affairs and boasted a record of great achievements both in peace and in war. He
was the only son of his parents and heir to a fine estate consisting of lands and slaves; but,
like many another of the restless young cavaliers of the Old Dominion, he had come in search
of adventure over into Kentucky, along the path blazed by Daniel Boone; and when Clark organized
his little army, the young man's patriotic and chivalrous nature leaped at the opportunity
to serve his country under so gallant a commander.

Beverley was not a mere youth, although yet somewhat under thirty. Educated abroad and naturally
of a thoughtful and studious turn, he had enriched his mind far beyond the usual limit among
young Americans of the very best class in that time; and so he appeared older than he really
was: an effect helped out by his large and powerful form and grave dignity of bearing. Clark,
who found him useful in emergencies, cool, intrepid, daring to a fault and possessed of excellent
judgement, sent him with Helm, hoping that he would offset with his orderly attention to details
the somewhat go-as-you-please disposition of that excellent officer.

Beverley set out in search of the French commander's house, impressed with no particular respect
for him or his office. Somehow Americans of Anglo-Saxon blood were slow to recognize any good
qualities whatever in the Latin Creoles of the West and South. It seemed to them that the Frenchman
and the Spaniard were much too apt to equalize themselves socially and matrimonially with Indians
and negroes. The very fact that for a century, while Anglo-Americans had been in constant bloody
warfare with savages, Frenchmen had managed to keep on easy and highly profitable trading terms
with them, tended to confirm the worst implication. "Eat frogs and save your scalp," was a
bit of contemptuous frontier humor indicative of what sober judgement held in reserve on the
subject.

Intent upon his formal mission, Lieutenant Beverley stalked boldly into the inclosure at Roussillon
place and was met on the gallery by Madame Roussillon in one of her worst moods. She glared
at him with her hands on her hips, her mouth set irritably aslant upward, her eyebrows gathered
into a dark knot over her nose. It would be hard to imagine a more forbidding countenance;
and for supplementary effect out popped hunchback Jean to stand behind her, with his big head
lying back in the hollow of his shoulders and his long chin elevated, while he gawped intently
up into Beverley's face.

"Bon jour, Madame," said the Lieutenant, lifting his hat and speaking with a pleasant accent.
"Would it be agreeable to Captain Roussillon for me to see him a moment?"

Despite Beverley's cleverness in using the French language, he had a decided brusqueness of
manner and a curt turn of voice not in the least Gallic. True, the soft Virginian intonation
marked every word, and his obeisance was as low as if Madame Roussillon had been a queen; but
the light French grace was wholly lacking.

"What do you want of my husband?" Madame Roussillon demanded.

"Nothing unpleasant, I assure you, Madame," said Beverley.

"Well, he's not at home, Mo'sieu; he's up the river for a few days."

She relaxed her stare, untied her eyebrows, and even let fall her hands from her shelf-like hips.

"Thank you, Madame," said Beverley, bowing again, "I am sorry not to have seen him."

As he was turning to go a shimmer of brown hair streaked with gold struck upon his vision from
just within the door. He paused, as if in response to a military command, while a pair of gray
eyes met his with a flash. The cabin room was ill lighted; but the crepuscular dimness did
not seem to hinder his sight. Beyond the girl's figure, a pair of slender swords hung crossed
aslant on the wall opposite the low door.

Beverley had seen, in the old world galleries, pictures in which the shadowy and somewhat uncertain
background thus forced into strongest projection the main figure, yet without clearly defining
it. The rough frame of the doorway gave just the rustic setting suited to Alice's costume,
the most striking part of which was a grayish short gown ending just above her fringed buckskin
moccasins. Around her head she had bound a blue kerchief, a wide corner of which lay over her
crown like a loose cap. Her bright hair hung free upon her shoulders in tumbled half curls.
As a picture, the figure and its entourage might have been artistically effective; but as Beverley
saw it in actual life the first impression was rather embarrassing. Somehow he felt almost
irresistibly invited to laugh, though he had never been much given to risibility. The blending,
or rather the juxtaposition, of extremes--a face, a form immediately witching, and a costume
odd to grotesquery--had made an assault upon his comprehension at once so sudden and so direct
that his dignity came near being disastrously broken up. A splendidly beautiful child comically
clad would have made much the same half delightful, half displeasing impression.

Beverley could not stare at the girl, and no sooner had he turned his back upon her than the
picture in his mind changed like a scene in a kaleidoscope. He now saw a tall, finely developed
figure and a face delicately oval, with a low, wide forehead, arched brows, a straight, slightly
tip-tilted nose, a mouth sweet and full, dimpled cheeks, and a strong chin set above a faultless
throat. His imagination, in casting off its first impression, was inclined to exaggerate Alice's
beauty and to dwell upon its picturesqueness. He smiled as he walked back to the fort, and
even found himself whistling gayly a snatch from a rollicking fiddle-tune that he had heard
when a boy.

CHAPTER VI

A FENCING BOUT

A few days after Helm's arrival, M. Roussillon returned to Vincennes, and if he was sorely
touched in his amour propre by seeing his suddenly acquired military rank and title drop away,
he did not let it be known to his fellow citizens. He promptly called upon the new commander
and made acquaintance with Lieutenant Fitzhugh Beverley, who just then was superintending the
work of cleaning up an old cannon in the fort and mending some breaks in the stockade.

Helm formed a great liking for the big Frenchman, whose breezy freedom of manner and expansive
good humor struck him favorably from the beginning. M. Roussillon's ability to speak English
with considerable ease helped the friendship along, no doubt; at all events their first interview
ended with a hearty show of good fellowship, and as time passed they became almost inseparable
companions during M. Roussillon's periods of rest from his trading excursions among the Indians.
They played cards and brewed hot drinks over which they told marvelous stories, the latest
one invariably surpassing all its predecessors.

Helm had an eye to business, and turned M. Roussillon's knowledge of the Indians to valuable
account, so that he soon had very pleasant relations with most of the tribes within reach of
his agents. This gave a feeling of great security to the people of Vincennes. They pursued
their narrow agricultural activities with excellent results and redoubled those social gayeties
which, even in hut and cabin under all the adverse conditions of extreme frontier life, were
dear to the volatile and genial French temperament.

Lieutenant Beverley found much to interest him in the quaint town; but the piece de resistance
was Oncle Jazon, who proved to be both fascinating and unmanageable; a hard nut to crack, yet
possessing a kernel absolutely original in flavor. Beverley visited him one evening in his
hut--it might better be called den--a curiously built thing, with walls of vertical poles set
in a quadrangular trench dug in the ground, and roofed with grass. Inside and out it was plastered
with clay, and the floor of dried mud was as smooth and hard as concrete paving. In one end
there was a wide fireplace grimy with soot, in the other a mere peep-hole for a window: a wooden
bench, a bed of skins and two or three stools were barely visible in the gloom. In the doorway
Oncle Jazon sat whittling a slender billet of hickory into a ramrod for his long flint-lock
American rifle.

"Maybe ye know Simon Kenton," said the old man, after he and Beverley had conversed for a while,
"seeing that you are from Kentucky--eh?"

"Yes, I do know him well; he's a warm personal friend of mine," said Beverley with quick interest,
for it surprised him that Oncle Jazon should know anything about Kenton. "Do you know him,
Monsieur Jazon?"

Oncle Jazon winked conceitedly and sighted along his rudimentary ramrod to see if it was straight;
then puckering his lips, as if on the point of whistling, made an affirmative noise quite impossible
to spell.

"Well, I'm glad you are acquainted with Kenton," said Beverley. "Where did you and he come
together?"

Oncle Jazon chuckled reminiscently and scratched the skinless, cicatrized spot where his scalp
had once flourished.

"Oh, several places," he answered. "Ye see thet hair a hangin' there on the wall?" He pointed
at a dry wisp dangling under a peg in a log barely visible by the bad light. "Well, thet's
my scalp, he! he! he!" He snickered as if the fact were a most enjoyable joke. "Simon Kenton
can tell ye about thet little affair! The Indians thought I was dead, and they took my hair;
but I wasn't dead; I was just a givin' 'em a 'possum act. When they was gone I got up from
where I was a layin' and trotted off. My head was sore and ventrebleu! but I was mad, he! he! he!"

All this time he spoke in French, and the English but poorly paraphrases his odd turns of expression.
His grimaces and grunts cannot even be hinted.

It was a long story, as Beverley received it, told scrappily, but with certain rude art. In
the end Oncle Jazon said with unctuous self-satisfaction:

"Accidents will happen. I got my chance at that damned Indian who skinned my head, and I jes
took a bead on 'im with my old rifle. I can't shoot much, never could, but I happened to hit
'im square in the lef' eye, what I shot at, and it was a hundred yards. Down he tumbles, and
I runs to 'im and finds my same old scalp a hangin' to his belt. Well, I lifted off his hair
with my knife, and untied mine from the belt, and then I had both scalps, he! he! he! You ask
Simon Kenton when ye see 'im. He was along at the same time, and they made 'im run the ga'ntlet
and pretty nigh beat the life out o' 'im. Ventrebleu!"

Beverley now recollected hearing Kenton tell the same grim story by a camp-fire in the hills
of Kentucky. Somehow it had caught a new spirit in the French rendering, which linked it with
the old tales of adventure that he had read in his boyhood, and it suddenly endeared Oncle
Jazon to him. The rough old scrap of a man and the powerful youth chatted together until sundown,
smoking their pipes, each feeling for what was best in the other, half aware that in the future
they would be tested together in the fire of wild adventure. Every man is more or less a prophet
at certain points in his life.

Twilight and moonlight were blending softly when Beverley, on his way back to the fort, departing
from a direct course, went along the river's side southward to have a few moments of reflective
strolling within reach of the water's pleasant murmur and the town's indefinite evening stir.
Rich sweetness, the gift of early autumn, was on the air blowing softly out of a lilac west
and singing in the willow fringe that hung here and there over the bank.

On the farther side of the river's wide flow, swollen by recent heavy rains, Beverley saw a
pirogue, in one end of which a dark figure swayed to the strokes of a paddle. The slender and
shallow little craft was bobbing on the choppy waves and taking a zig-zag course among floating
logs and masses of lighter driftwood, while making slow but certain headway toward the hither bank.

Beverley took a bit of punk and a flint and steel from his pocket, relit his pipe and stood
watching the skilful boatman conduct his somewhat dangerous voyage diagonally against the rolling
current. It was a shifting, hide-and-seek scene, its features appearing and disappearing with
the action of the waves and the doubtful light reflected from fading clouds and sky. Now and
again the man stood up in his skittish pirogue, balancing himself with care, to use a short
pole in shoving driftwood out of his way; and more than once he looked to Beverley as if he
had plunged head-long into the dark water.

The spot, as nearly as it can be fixed, was about two hundred yards below where the public
road-bridge at present spans the Wabash. The bluff was then far different from what it is now,
steeper and higher, with less silt and sand between it and the water's edge. Indeed, swollen
as the current was, a man could stand on the top of the bank and easily leap into the deep
water. At a point near the middle of the river a great mass of drift-logs and sand had long
ago formed a barrier which split the stream so that one current came heavily shoreward on the
side next the town and swashed with its muddy foam, making a swirl and eddy just below where
Beverley stood.

The pirogue rounded the upper angle of this obstruction, not without difficulty to its crew
of one, and swung into the rapid shoreward rush, as was evidently planned for by the steersman,
who now paddled against the tide with all his might to keep from being borne too far down stream
for a safe landing place.

Beverley stood at ease idly and half dreamily looking on, when suddenly something caused a
catastrophe, which for a moment he did not comprehend. In fact the man in the pirogue came
to grief, as a man in a pirogue is very apt to do, and fairly somersaulted overboard into the
water. Nothing serious would have threatened (for the man could swim like an otter) had not
a floating, half submerged log thrust up some short, stiff stumps of boughs, upon the points
of which the man struck heavily and was not only hurt, but had his clothes impaled securely
by one of the ugly spears, so that he hung in a helpless position, while the water's motion
alternately lifted and submerged him, his arms beating about wildly.

When Beverley heard a strangling cry for help, he pulled himself promptly together, flung off
his coat, as if by a single motion, and leaped down the bank into the water. He was a swimmer
whose strokes counted for all that prodigious strength and excellent training could afford;
he rushed through the water with long sweeps, making a semicircle, rounding against the current,
so as to swing down upon the drowning man.

Less than a half-hour later a rumor by some means spread throughout the town that Father Beret
and Lieutenant Beverley were drowned in the Wabash. But when a crowd gathered to verify the
terrible news it turned out to be untrue. Gaspard Roussillon had once more distinguished himself
by an exhibition of heroic nerve and muscle.

"Ventrebleu! Quel homme!" exclaimed Oncle Jazon, when told that M. Roussillon had come up the
bank of the Wabash with Lieutenant Beverley under one arm and Father Beret under the other,
both men apparently dead.

"Bring them to my house immediately," M. Roussillon ordered, as soon as they were restored
to consciousness; and he shook himself, as a big wet animal sometimes does, covering everybody
near him with muddy water. Then he led the way with melodramatic strides.

In justice to historical accuracy there must be a trifling reform of what appeared on the face
of things to be grandly true. Gaspard Roussillon actually dragged Father Beret and Lieutenant
Beverley one at a time out of the eddy water and up the steep river bank. That was truly a
great feat; but the hero never explained. When men arrived he was standing between the collapsed
forms, panting and dripping. Doubtless he looked just as if he had dropped them from under
his arms, and why shouldn't he have the benefit of a great implication?

"I've saved them both," he roared; from which, of course, the ready creole imagination inferred
the extreme of possible heroic performance.

"Bring them to my house immediately," and it was accordingly done.

The procession, headed by M. Roussillon, moved noisily, for the French tongue must shake off
what comes to it on the thrill of every exciting moment. The only silent Frenchman is the dead one.

Father Beret was not only well-nigh drowned, but seriously hurt. He lay for a week on a bed
in M. Roussillon's house before he could sit up. Alice hung over him night and day, scarcely
sleeping or eating until he was past all danger. As for Beverley, he shook off all the effects
of his struggle in a little while. Next day he was out, as well and strong as ever, busy with
the affairs of his office. Nor was he less happy on account of what the little adventure had
cast into his experience. It is good to feel that one has done an unselfish deed, and no young
man's heart repels the freshness of what comes to him when a beautiful girl first enters his life.

Naturally enough Alice had some thoughts of Beverley while she was so attentively caring for
Father Beret. She had never before seen a man like him, nor had she read of one. Compared with
Rene de Ronville, the best youth of her acquaintance, he was in every way superior; this was
too evident for analysis; but referred to the romantic standard taken out of the novels she
had read, he somehow failed; and yet he loomed bravely in her vision, not exactly a knight
of the class she had most admired, still unquestionably a hero of large proportions.

Beverley stepped in for a few minutes every day to see Father Beret, involuntarily lengthening
his visit by a sliding ratio as he became better acquainted. He began to enjoy the priest's
conversation, with its sly worldly wisdom cropping up through fervid religious sentiments and
quaint humor. Alice must have interested him more than he was fully aware of; for his eyes
followed her, as she came and went, with a curious criticism of her half-savage costume and
her springy, Dryad-like suppleness, which reminded him of the shyest and gracefulest wild birds;
and yet a touch of refinement, the subtlest and best, showed in all her ways. He studied her,
as he would have studied a strange, showy and originally fragrant flower, or a bird of oddly
attractive plumage. While she said little to him or to anyone else in his presence, he became
aware of the willfulness and joyous lightness which played on her nature's changeable surface.
He wondered at her influence over Father Beret, whom she controlled apparently without effort.
But in due time he began to feel a deeper character, a broader intelligence, behind her superficial
sauvagerie; and he found that she really had no mean smattering of books in the lighter vein.

A little thing happened which further opened his eyes and increased the interest that her beauty
and elementary charm of style aroused in him gradually, apace with their advancing acquaintanceship.

Father Beret had got well and returned to his hut and his round of spiritual duties; but Beverley
came to Roussillon place every day all the same. For a wonder Madame Roussillon liked him,
and at most times held the scolding side of her tongue when he was present. Jean, too, made
friendly advances whenever opportunity afforded. Of course Alice gave him just the frank cordiality
of hospitable welcome demanded by frontier conditions. She scarcely knew whether she liked
him or not; but he had a treasury of information from which he was enriching her with liberal
carelessness day by day. The hungriest part of her mind was being sumptuously banqueted at
his expense. Mere intellectual greediness drew her to him.

Naturally they soon threw off such troubling formalities as at first rose between them, and
began to disclose to each other their true characteristics. Alice found in Beverley a large
target for the missiles of her clever and tantalizing perversity. He in turn practiced a native
dignity and an acquired superiority of manner to excellent effect. It was a meeting of Greek
with Greek in a new Arcadia. To him here was Diana, strong, strange, simple, even crude almost
to naturalness, yet admirably pure in spirit and imbued with highest womanly aspirations. To
her Beverley represented the great outside area of life. He came to her from wonderland, beyond
the wide circle of houseless woods and prairies. He represented gorgeous cities, teeming parks
of fashion, boulevards, salons, halls of social splendor, the theater, the world of woman's dreams.

Now, there is an antagonism, vague yet powerful, generated between natures thus cast together
from the opposite poles of experience and education: an antagonism practically equivalent to
the most vigorous attraction. What one knows the other is but half aware of; neither knowledge
nor ignorance being mutual, there is a scintillation of exchange, from opposing vantage grounds,
followed by harmless snaps of thunder. Culture and refinement take on airs--it is the deepest
artificial instinct of enlightenment to pose--in the presence of naturalness; and there is
a certain style of ignorance which attitudinizes before the gate of knowledge. The return to
nature has always been the dream of the conventionalized soul, while the simple Arcadian is
forever longing for the maddening honey of sophistication.

Innate jealousies strike together like flint and steel dashing off sparks by which nearly everything
that life can warm its core withal is kindled and kept burning. What I envy in my friend I
store for my best use. I thrust and parry, not to kill, but to learn my adversary's superior
feints and guards. And this hint of sword play leads back to what so greatly surprised and
puzzled Beverley one day when he chanced to be examining the pair of colechemardes on the wall.

He took one down, and handling it with the indescribable facility possible to none save a practical
swordsman, remarked:

"There's a world of fascination in these things; I like nothing better than a bout at fencing.
Does your father practice the art?"

"I have no father, no mother," she quickly said; "but good Papa Roussillon does like a little
exercise with the colechemarde."

"Well, I'm glad to hear it, I shall ask to teach him a trick or two," Beverley responded in
the lightest mood. "When will he return from the woods?"

"I can't tell you; he's very irregular in such matters," she said. Then, with a smile half
banter and half challenge, she added; "if you are really dying for some exercise, you shall
not have to wait for him to come home, I assure you, Monsieur Beverley."

"Oh, it's Monsieur de Ronville, perhaps, that you will offer up as a victim to my skill and
address," he slyly returned; for he was suspecting that a love affair in some stage of progress
lay between her and Rene.

She blushed violently, but quickly overcoming a combined rush of surprise and anger, added
with an emphasis as charming as it was unexpected.

"I myself am, perhaps, swordsman enough to satisfy the impudence and vanity of Monsieur Beverley,
Lieutenant in the American army."

"Pardon me, Mademoiselle; forgive me, I beg of you," he exclaimed, earnestly modulating his
voice to sincerest beseechment; "I really did not mean to be impudent, nor--"

Her vivacity cleared with a merry laugh.

"No apologies, I command you," she interposed. "We will have them after I have taught you a
fencing lesson."

From a shelf she drew down a pair of foils and presenting the hilts, bade him take his choice.

"There isn't any difference between them that I know of," she said, and then added archly;
"but you will feel better at last, when all is over and the sting of defeat tingles through
you, if you are conscious of having used every sensible precaution."

He looked straight into her eyes, trying to catch what was in her mind, but there was a bewildering
glamour playing across those gray, opal-tinted wells of mystery, from which he could draw only
a mischievous smile-glint, direct, daring, irresistible.

"Well," he said, taking one of the foils, "what do you really mean? Is it a challenge without
room for honorable retreat?"

"The time for parley is past," she replied, "follow me to the battle-ground."

She led the way to a pleasant little court in the rear of the cabin's yard, a space between
two wings and a vine-covered trellis, beyond which lay a well kept vineyard and vegetable garden.
Here she turned about and faced him, poising her foil with a fine grace.

"Are you ready?" she inquired.

He tried again to force a way into the depths of her eyes with his; but he might as well have
attacked the sun; so he stood in a confusion of not very well defined feelings, undecided,
hesitating, half expecting that there would be some laughable turn to end the affair.

"Are you afraid, Monsieur Beverley?" she demanded after a short waiting in silence.

He laughed now and whipped the air with his foil.

"You certainly are not in earnest?" he said interrogatively. "Do you really mean that you want
to fence with me?"

"If you think because I'm only a girl you can easily beat me, try it," she tauntingly replied
making a level thrust toward his breast.

Quick as a flash he parried, and then a merry clinking and twinkling of steel blades kept time
to their swift movements. Instantly, by the sure sense which is half sight, half feeling--the
sense that guides the expert fencer's hand and wrist--Beverley knew that he had probably more
than his match, and in ten seconds his attack was met by a time thrust in opposition which
touched him sharply.

Alice sprang far back, lowered her point and laughed.

"Je vous salue, Monsieur Beverley!" she cried, with childlike show of delight. "Did you feel
the button?"

"Yes, I felt it," he said with frank acknowledgment in his voice, "it was cleverly done. Now
give me a chance to redeem myself."

He began more carefully and found that she, too, was on her best mettle; but it was a short
bout, as before. Alice seemed to give him an easy opening and he accepted it with a thrust;
then something happened that he did not understand. The point of his foil was somehow caught
under his opponent's hilt-guard while her blade seemed to twist around his; at the same time
there was a wring and a jerk, the like of which he had never before felt, and he was disarmed,
his wrist and fingers aching with the wrench they had received.

Of course the thing was not new; he had been disarmed before; but her trick of doing it was
quite a mystery to him, altogether different from any that he had ever seen.

"Vous me pardonnerez, Monsieur," she mockingly exclaimed, picking up his weapon and offering
the hilt to him. "Here is your sword!"

"Keep it," he said, folding his arms and trying to look unconcerned, "you have captured it
fairly. I am at your mercy; be kind to me."

Madame Roussillon and Jean, the hunchback, hearing the racket of the foils had come out to
see and were standing agape.

"You ought to be ashamed, Alice," said the dame in scolding approval of what she had done;
"girls do not fence with gentlemen."

"This girl does," said Alice.

"And with extreme disaster to this gentleman," said Beverley, laughing in a tone of discomfiture
and resignation.

"Ah, Mo'sieu', there's nothing but disaster where she goes," complained Madame Roussillon,
"she is a destroyer of everything. Only yesterday she dropped my pink bowl and broke it, the
only one I had."

"And just to think," said Beverley, "what would have been the condition of my heart had we
been using rapiers instead of leather-buttoned foils! She would have spitted it through the
very center."

"Like enough," replied the dame indifferently. "She wouldn't wince, either,--not she."

Alice ran into the house with the foils and Beverley followed.

"We must try it over again some day soon," he said; "I find that you can show me a few points.
Where did you learn to fence so admirably? Is Monsieur Roussillon your master?"

"Indeed he isn't," she quickly replied, "he is but a bungling swordsman. My master--but I am
not at liberty to tell you who has taught me the little I know."

"Well, whoever he is I should be glad to have lessons from him."

"But you'll never get them."

"Why?"

"Because."

"A woman's ultimatum."

"As good as a man's!" she bridled prettily; "and sometimes better--at the foils for example.
Vous--comprenez, n'est ce pas?"

He laughed heartily.

"Yes, your point reaches me," he said, "but sperat et in saeva victus gladiatur arena, as the
old Latin poet wisely remarks." The quotation was meant to tease her.

"Yes, Montaigne translated that or something in his book," she commented with prompt erudition.
"I understand it."

Beverley looked amazed.

"What do you know about Montaigne?" he demanded with a blunt brevity amounting to something
like gruffness.

"Sh', Monsieur, not too loud," she softly protested, looking around to see that neither Madame
Roussillon nor Jean had followed them into the main room. "It is not permitted that I read
that old book; but they do not hide it from me, because they think I can't make out its dreadful
spelling."

She smiled so that her cheeks drew their dimples deep into the delicately tinted pink-and-brown,
where wind and sun and wholesome exercise had set the seal of absolute health, and took from
a niche in the logs of the wall a stained and dog-eared volume. He looked, and it was, indeed,
the old saint and sinner, Montaigne.

Involuntarily he ran his eyes over the girl from head to foot, comparing her show of knowledge
with the outward badges of abject rusticity, and even wildness, with which she was covered.

"Well," he said, "you are a mystery."

"You think it surprising that I can read a book! Frankly I can't understand half of this one.
I read it because--well just because they want me to read about nothing but sickly old saints
and woe-begone penitents. I like something lively. What do I care for all that uninteresting
religious stuff?"

"Montaigne IS decidedly lively in spots," Beverley remarked. "I shouldn't think a girl--I shouldn't
think you'd particularly enjoy his humors."

"I don't care for the book at all," she said, flushing quickly, "only I seem to learn about
the world from it. Sometimes it seems as if it lifted me up high above all this wild, lonely
and tiresome country, so that I can see far off where things are different and beautiful. It
is the same with the novels; and they don't permit me to read them either; but all the same I do."

When Beverley, taking his leave, passed through the gate at Roussillon place, he met Rene de
Ronville going in. It was a notable coincidence that each young man felt something troublesome
rise in his throat as he looked into the other's eyes.

A week of dreamy autumn weather came on, during which Beverley managed to be with Alice a great
deal, mostly sitting on the Roussillon gallery, where the fading vine leaves made fairy whispering,
and where the tempered breeze blew deliciously cool from over the distant multi-colored woods.
The men of Vincennes were gathering their Indian corn early to dry it on the cob for grating
into winter meal. Many women made wine from the native grapes and from the sweeter and richer
fruit of imported vines. Madame Roussillon and Alice stained their hands a deep purple during
the pressing season, and Beverley found himself engaged in helping them handle the juicy crop,
while around the overflowing earthen pots the wild bees, wasps and hornets hummed with an incessant,
jarring monotony.

Jean, the hunchback, gathered ample stores of hickory nuts, walnuts, hazel-nuts and pin-oak
acorns. Indeed, the whole population of the village made a great spurt of industry just before
the falling of winter; and presently, when every preparation had been completed for the dreaded
cold season, M. Roussillon carried out his long-cherished plan, and gave a great party at the
river house. After the most successful trading experience of all his life he felt irrepressibly
liberal.

"Let's have one more roaring good time," he said, "that's what life is for."

CHAPTER VII

THE MAYOR'S PARTY

Beverley was so surprised and confused in his mind by the ease with which he had been mastered
at swordplay by a mere girl, that he felt as if just coming out of a dream. In fact the whole
affair seemed unreal, yet so vivid and impressive in all its main features, that he could not
emerge from it and look it calmly over from without. His experience with women had not prepared
him for a ready understanding and acceptance of a girl like Alice. While he was fully aware
of her beauty, freshness, vivacity and grace, this Amazonian strength of hers, this boldness
of spirit, this curious mixture of frontier crudeness and a certain adumbration--so to call
it--of patrician sensibilities and aspirations, affected him both pleasantly and unpleasantly.
He did not sympathize promptly with her semi-barbaric costume; she seemed not gently feminine,
as compared with the girls of Virginia and Maryland. He resented her muscular development and
her independent disposition. She was far from coarseness, however, and, indeed, a trace of
subtle refinement, although not conventional, imbued her whole character.

But why was he thinking so critically about her? Had his selfishness received an incurable
shock from the button of her foil? A healthy young man of the right sort is apt to be jealous
of his physical prowess--touch him there and he will turn the world over to right himself in,
his own admiration and yours. But to be beaten on his highest ground of virility by a dimple-faced
maiden just leaving her teens could not offer Beverley any open way to recoupment of damages.

He tried to shake her out of his mind, as a bit of pretty and troublesome rubbish, what time
he pursued his not very exacting military duties. But the more he shook the tighter she clung,
and the oftener he went to see her.

Helm was a good officer in many respects, and his patriotism was of the best; but he liked
jolly company, a glass of something strong and a large share of ease. Detroit lay many miles
northeastward across the wilderness, and the English, he thought, would scarcely come so far
to attack his little post, especially now that most of the Indians in the intervening country
had declared in favor of the Americans. Recently, too, the weather had been favoring him by
changing from wet to dry, so that the upper Wabash and its tributaries were falling low and
would soon be very difficult to navigate with large batteaux.

Very little was done to repair the stockade and dilapidated remnant of a blockhouse. There
were no sufficient barracks, a mere shed in one angle serving for quarters, and the old cannon
could not have been used to any effect in case of attack. As for the garrison, it was a nominal
quantity, made up mostly of men who preferred hunting and fishing to the merest pretense of
military duty.

Gaspard Roussillon assumed to know everything about Indian affairs and the condition of the
English at Detroit. His optimistic eloquence lulled Helm to a very pleasant sense of security.
Beverley was not so easy to satisfy; but his suggestions regarding military discipline and
a vigorous prosecution of repairs to the blockhouse and stockade were treated with dilatory
geniality by his superior officer. The soft wonder of a perfect Indian summer glorified land,
river and sky. Why not dream and bask? Why not drink exhilarating toddies?

Meantime the entertainment to be given by Gaspard Roussillon occupied everybody's imagination
to an unusual extent. Rene de Ronville, remembering but not heeding the doubtful success of
his former attempt, went long beforehand to claim Alice as his partenaire; but she flatly refused
him, once more reminding him of his obligations to little Adrienne Bourcier. He would not be
convinced.

"You are bound to me," he said, "you promised before, you know, and the party was but put off.
I hold you to it; you are my partenaire, and I am yours, you can't deny that."

"No you are not my partenaire," she firmly said; then added lightly, "Feu mon partenaire, you
are dead and buried as my partner at that dance."

He glowered in silence for a few moments, then said:

"It is Lieutenant Beverley, I suppose."

She gave him a quick contemptuous look, but turned it instantly into one of her tantalising smiles.

"Do you imagine that?" she demanded.

"Imagine it! I know it," he said with a hot flush. "Have I no sense?"

"Precious little," she replied with a merry laugh.

"You think so."

"Go to Father Beret, tell him everything, and then ask him what he thinks," she said in a calm,
even tone, her face growing serious.

There was an awkward silence.

She had touched Rene's vulnerable spot; he was nothing if not a devout Catholic, and his conscience
rooted itself in what good Father Beret had taught him.

The church, no matter by what name it goes, Catholic or Protestant, has a saving hold on the
deepest inner being of its adherents. No grip is so hard to shake off as that of early religious
convictions. The still, small voice coming down from the times "When shepherds watched their
flocks by night," in old Judea, passes through the priest, the minister, the preacher; it echoes
in cathedral, church, open-air meeting; it gently and mysteriously imparts to human life the
distinctive quality which is the exponent of Christian civilization. Upon the receptive nature
of children it makes an impress that forever afterward exhales a fragrance and irradiates a
glory for the saving of the nations.

Father Beret was the humble, self-effacing, never-tiring agent of good in his community. He
preached in a tender sing-song voice the sweet monotonies of his creed and the sublime truths
of Christ's code. He was indeed the spiritual father of his people. No wonder Rene's scowling
expression changed to one of abject self-concern when the priest's name was suddenly connected
with his mood. The confessional loomed up before the eyes of his conscience, and his knees
smote together, spiritually if not physically.

"Now," said Alice, brusquely, but with sweet and gentle firmness, "go to your fiancee, go to
pretty and good Adrienne, and ask her to be your partenaire. Refresh your conscience with a
noble draught of duty and make that dear little girl overflow with joy. Go, Rene de Ronville."

In making over what she said into English, the translation turns out to be but a sonorous paraphrase.
Her French was of that mixed creole sort, a blending of linguistic elegance and patois, impossible
to imitate. Like herself it was beautiful, crude, fascinating, and something in it impressed
itself as unimpeachable, despite the broken and incongruous diction. Rene felt his soul cowering,
even slinking; but he fairly maintained a good face, and went away without saying another word.

"Ciel, ciel, how beautiful she is!" he thought, as he walked along the narrow street in the
dreamy sunshine. "But she is not for me, not for me."

He shook himself and tried to be cheerful. In fact he hummed a Creole ditty, something about

  "La belle Jeanette, qu' a brise mon coeur."

Days passed, and at last the time of the great event arrived. It was a frosty night, clear,
sparkling with stars, a keen breath cutting down from the northwest. M. Roussillon, Madame
Roussillon, Alice and Lieutenant Beverley went together to the river house, whither they had
been preceded by almost the entire population of Vincennes. Some fires had been built outside;
the crowd proving too great for the building's capacity, as there had to be ample space for
the dancers. Merry groups hovered around the flaming logs, while within the house a fiddle
sang its simple and ravishing tunes. Everybody talked and laughed; it was a lively racket of
clashing voices and rhythmical feet.

You would have been surprised to find that Oncle Jazon was the fiddler; but there he sat, perched
on a high stool in one corner of the large room, sawing away as if for dear life, his head
wagging, his elbow leaping back and forth, while his scalpless crown shone like the side of
a peeled onion and his puckered mouth wagged grotesquely from side to side keeping time to
his tuneful scraping.

When the Roussillon party arrived it attracted condensed attention. Its importance, naturally
of the greatest in the assembled popular mind, was enhanced--as mathematicians would say, to
the nth power--by the gown of Alice. It was resplendent indeed in the simple, unaccustomed
eyes upon which it flashed with a buff silken glory. Matrons stared at it; maidens gazed with
fascinated and jealous vision; men young and old let their eyes take full liberty. It was as
if a queen, arrayed in a robe of state, had entered that dingy log edifice, an apparition of
dazzling and awe-inspiring beauty. Oncle Jazon caught sight of her, and snapped his tune short
off. The dancers swung together and stopped in confusion. But she, fortified by a woman's strongest
bulwark, the sense of resplendency, appeared quite unconscious of herself.

Little Adrienne, hanging in blissful delight upon Rene's strong arm, felt the stir of excitement
and wondered what was the matter, being too short to see over the heads of those around her.

"What is it? what is it?" she cried, tiptoeing and tugging at her companion's sleeve. "Tell
me, Rene, tell me, I say."

Rene was gazing in dumb admiration into which there swept a powerful anger, like a breath of
flame. He recollected how Alice had refused to wear that dress when he had asked her, and now
she had it on. Moreover, there she stood beside Lieutenant Beverley, holding his arm, looking
up into his face, smiling, speaking to him.

"I think you might tell me what has happened," said Adrienne, pouting and still plucking at
his arm. "I can't see a thing, and you won't tell me."

"Oh, it's nothing," he presently answered, rather fretfully. Then he stooped, lowered his voice
and added; "it's Mademoiselle Roussillon all dressed up like a bride or something. She's got
on a buff silk dress that Mo'sieu' Roussillon's mother had in France."

"How beautiful she must look!" cried the girl. "I wish I could see her."

Rene put a hand on each side of her slender waist and lifted her high, so that her pretty head
rose above the crowding people. Alice chanced to turn her face that way just then and saw the
unconventional performance. Her eyes met those of Adrienne and she gave a nod of smiling recognition.
It was a rose beaming upon a gilliflower.

M. Roussillon naturally understood that all this stir and crowding to see was but another demonstration
of his personal popularity. He bowed and waved a vast hand.

But the master of ceremonies called loudly for the dancers to take their places. Oncle Jazon
attacked his fiddle again with startling energy. Those who were not to dance formed a compact
double line around the wall, the shorter ones in front, the taller in the rear. And what a
scene it was! but no person present regarded it as in any way strange or especially picturesque,
save as to the gown of Alice, which was now floating and whirling in time to Oncle Jazon's
mad music. The people outside the house cheerfully awaited their turn to go in while an equal
number went forth to chat and sing around the fires.

Beverley was in a young man's seventh heaven. The angels formed a choir circling around his
heart, and their song brimmed his universe from horizon to horizon.

When he called at Roussillon place, and Alice appeared so beautifully and becomingly robed,
it was another memorable surprise. She flashed a new and subtly stimulating light upon him.
The old gown, rich in subdued splendor of lace and brocade, was ornamented at the throat with
a heavy band of pearls, just above which could be seen a trace of the gold chain that supported
her portrait locket. There, too, with a not unbecoming gleam of barbaric colors, shone the
string of porcupine beads to which the Indian charmstone hidden in her bosom was attached.
It all harmonized with the time, the place, the atmosphere. Anywhere else it would have been
preposterous as a decorative presentment, but here, in this little nook where the coureurs
de bois, the half-breeds, the traders and the missionaries had founded a centre of assembly,
it was the best possible expression in the life so formed at hap-hazard, and so controlled
by the coarsest and narrowest influences. To Fitzhugh Beverley, of Beverley Hall, the picture
conveyed immediately a sweet and pervading influence.

Alice looked superbly tall, stately and self-possessed in her transforming costume, a woman
of full stature, her countenance gravely demure yet reserving near the surface the playful
dimples and mischievous smiles so characteristic of her more usual manner. A sudden mood of
the varium et mutabile semper femina had led her to wear the dress, and the mood still illuminated
her.

Beverley stood before her frankly looking and admiring. The underglow in her cheeks deepened
and spread over her perfect throat; her eyes met his a second, then shyly avoided him. He hardly
could have been sure which was master, her serenity or her girlish delight in being attractively
dressed; but there could be no doubt as to her self-possession; for, saving the pretty blush
under his almost rude gaze of admiration, she bore herself as firmly as any fine lady he remembered.

They walked together to the river house, she daintily holding up her skirts, under the insistent
verbal direction of Madame Roussillon, and at the same time keeping a light, strangely satisfying
touch on his arm. When they entered the room there was no way for Beverley to escape full consciousness
of the excitement they aroused; but M. Roussillon's assumption broke the force of what would
have otherwise been extremely embarrassing.

"It is encouraging, very encouraging," murmured the big man to Beverley in the midst of the
staring and scrambling and craning of necks, "to have my people admire and love me so; it goes
to the middle of my heart." And again he bowed and waved his hand with an all-including gesture,
while he swept his eyes over the crowd.

Alice and Beverley were soon in the whirl of the dance, forgetful of everything but an exhilaration
stirred to its utmost by Oncle Jazon's music.

A side remark here may be of interest to those readers who enjoy the dream that on some fortunate
day they will invade a lonely nook, where amid dust and cobwebs, neglected because unrecognized,
reposes a masterpiece of Stradivari or some other great fiddle-maker. Oncle Jazon knew nothing
whatever about old violins. He was a natural musician, that was all, and flung himself upon
his fiddle with the same passionate abandon that characterizes a healthy boy's assault when
a plum pudding is at his mercy. But his fiddle was a Carlo Bergonzi; and now let the search
be renewed, for the precious instrument was certainly still in Vincennes as late as 1819, and
there is a vague tradition that Governor Whitcomb played on it not long before he died. The
mark by which it may be identified is the single word "Jazon" cut in the back of its neck by
Oncle Jazon himself.

When their dance was ended Alice and Beverley followed the others of their set out into the
open air while a fresh stream of eager dancers poured in. Beverley insisted upon wrapping Alice
in her mantle of unlined beaver skin against the searching winter breath. They did not go to
the fire, but walked back and forth, chatting until their turn to dance should come again,
pausing frequently to exchange pleasantries with some of the people. Curiously enough both
of them had forgotten the fact that other young men would be sure to ask Alice for a dance,
and that more than one pretty creole lass was rightfully expecting a giddy turn with the stalwart
and handsome Lieutenant Beverley.

Rene de Ronville before long broke rudely into their selfish dream and led Alice into the house.
This reminded Beverley of his social duty, wherefore seeing little Adrienne Bourcier he made
a rush and secured her at a swoop from the midst of a scrambling circle of mutually hindered
young men.

"Allons, ma petite!" he cried, quite in the gay tone of the occasion, and swung her lightly
along with him.

It was like an eagle dancing with a linnet, or a giant with a fairy, when the big Lieutenant
led out la petite Adrienne, as everybody called her. The honor of Beverley's attention sat
unappreciated on Adrienne's mind, for all her thoughts went with her eyes toward Rene and Alice.
Nor was Beverley so absorbed in his partner's behalf that he ever for a moment willingly lost
sight of the floating buff gown, the shining brown hair and the beautiful face, which formed,
indeed, the center of attraction for all eyes.

Father Beret was present, sharing heartily in the merriment of his flock. Voices greeted him
on all sides with intonations of tender respect. The rudest man there was loyal to the kind-hearted
priest, and would as soon have thought of shooting him as of giving him any but the most reverent
attention. It is to be noted, however, that their understanding of reverence included great
freedom and levity not especially ecclesiastical in its nature. Father Beret understood the
conditions around him and had the genius to know what not to hear, what not to see; but he
never failed when a good word or a fatherly touch with his hand seemed worth trying on a sheep
that appeared to be straying dangerously far from the fold. Upon an occasion like this dance
at the river house, he was no less the faithful priest because of his genial sympathy with
the happiness of the young people who looked to him for spiritual guidance.

It was some time before Beverley could again secure Alice for a dance, and he found it annoying
him atrociously to see her smile sweetly on some buckskin-clad lout who looked like an Indian
and danced like a Parisian. He did not greatly enjoy most of his partners; they could not appeal
to any side of his nature just then. Not that he at all times stood too much on his aristocratic
traditions, or lacked the virile traits common to vigorous and worldly-minded men; but the
contrast between Alice and the other girls present was somehow an absolute bar to a democratic
freedom of the sort demanded by the occasion. He met Father Beret and passed a few pleasant
words with him.

"They have honored your flag, my son, I am glad to see," the priest said, pointing with a smile
to where, in one corner, the banner that bore Alice's name was effectively draped.

Beverley had not noticed it before, and when he presently got possession of Alice he asked
her to tell him the story of how she planted it on the fort, although he had heard it to the
last detail from Father Beret just a moment ago. They stood together under its folds while
she naively sketched the scene for him, even down to her picturesquely disagreeable interview
with Long-Hair, mention of whom led up to the story of the Indian's race with the stolen dame
jeanne of brandy under his arm on that memorable night, and the subsequent services performed
for him by Father Beret and her, after she and Jean had found him in the mud beyond the river.

The dancing went on at a furious pace while they stood there. Now and again a youth came to
claim her, but she said she was tired and begged to rest awhile, smiling so graciously upon
each one that his rebuff thrilled him as if it had been the most flattering gift of tender
partiality, while at the same time he suspected that it was all for Beverley.

Helm in his most jovial mood was circulating freely among those who formed the periphery of
the dancing-area; he even ventured a few clumsy capers in a cotillion with Madame Godere for
partner. She danced well; but he, as someone remarked, stumbled all over himself.

There was but one thing to mar the evening's pleasure: some of the men drank too much and grew
boisterous. A quarrel ended in a noisy but harmless fight near one of the fires. M. Roussillon
rushed to the spot, seized the combatants, tousled them playfully, as if they had been children,
rubbed their heads together, laughed stormily and so restored the equilibrium of temper.

It was late when fathers and mothers in the company began to suggest adjournment. Oncle Jazon's
elbow was tired and the enthusiasm generated by his unrecognized Bergonzi became fitful, while
the relaxing crowd rapidly encroached upon the space set apart for the dancers. In the open
lamps suspended here and there the oil was running low, and the rag wicks sputtered and winked
with their yellow flames.

"Well," said M. Roussillon, coming to where Alice and Beverley stood insulated and isolated
by their great delight in each other's company, "it's time to go home."

Beverley looked at his watch; it was a quarter to three!

Alice also looked at the watch, and saw engraved and enameled on its massive case the Beverley
crest, but she did not know what it meant. There was something of the sort in the back of her
locket, she remembered with satisfaction.

Just then there was a peculiar stir in the flagging crowd. Someone had arrived, a coureur de
bois from the north. Where was the commandant? the coureur had something important for him.

Beverley heard a remark in a startled voice about the English getting ready for a descent upon
the Wabash valley. This broke the charm which thralled him and sent through his nerves the
bracing shock that only a soldier can feel when a hint of coming battle reaches him.

Alice saw the flash in his face.

"Where is Captain Helm? I must see him immediately. Excuse me," he said, abruptly turning away
and looking over the heads of the people; "yonder he is, I must go to him."

The coureur de bois, Adolphe Dutremble by name, was just from the head waters of the Wabash.
He was speaking to Helm when Beverley came up. M. Roussillon followed close upon the Lieutenant's
heels, as eager as he to know what the message amounted to; but Helm took the coureur aside,
motioning Beverley to join them. M. Roussillon included himself in the conference.

After all it was but the gossip of savages that Dutremble communicated; still the purport was
startling in the extreme. Governor Hamilton, so the story ran, had been organizing a large
force; he was probably now on his way to the portage of the Wabash with a flotilla of batteaux,
some companies of disciplined soldiers, artillery and a strong body of Indians.

Helm listened attentively to Dutremble's lively sketch, then cross-questioned him with laconic
directness.

"Send Mr. Jazon to me," he said to M. Roussillon, as if speaking to a servant.

The master Frenchman went promptly, recognizing Captain Helm's right to command, and sympathizing
With his unpleasant military predicament if the news should prove true.

Oncle Jazon came in a minute, his fiddle and bow clamped under his arm, to receive a verbal
commission, which sent him with some scouts of his own choosing forthwith to the Wabash portage,
or far enough to ascertain what the English commander was doing.

After the conference Beverley made haste to join Alice; but he found that she had gone home.

"One hell of a fix we'll be in if Hamilton comes down here with a good force," said Helm.

Beverley felt like retorting that a little forethought, zeal and preparation might have lessened
the prospective gloom. He had been troubled all the time about Helm's utter lack of military
precaution. True, there was very little material out of which that optimistic officer could
have formed a body of resistance against the army probably at Hamilton's command; but Beverley
was young, energetic, bellicose, and to him everything seemed possible; he believed in vigilance,
discipline, activity, dash; he had a great faith in the efficacy of enthusiasm.

"We must organize these Frenchmen," he said; "they will make good fighters if we can once get
them to act as a body. There's no time to be lost; but we have time enough in which to do a
great deal before Hamilton can arrive, if we go at it in earnest."

"Your theory is excellent, Lieutenant, but the practice of it won't be worth a damn," Helm
replied with perfect good nature. "I'd like to see you organize these parly-voos. There ain't
a dozen of 'em that wouldn't accept the English with open arms. I know 'em. They're good hearted,
polite and all that; they'll hurrah for the flag; that's easy enough; but put 'em to the test
and they'll join in with the strongest side, see if they don't. Of course there are a few exceptions.
There's Jazon, he's all right, and I have faith in Bosseron, and Legrace, and young Ronville."

"Roussillon--" Beverley began.

"Is much of a blow-hard," Helm interrupted with a laugh. "Barks loud, but his biting disposition
is probably not vicious."

"He and Father Beret control the whole population at all events," said Beverley.

"Yes, and such a population!"

While joining in Captain Helm's laugh at the expense of Vincennes, Beverley took leave to indulge
a mental reservation in favor of Alice. He could not bear to class her with the crowd of noisy,
thoughtless, mercurial beings whom he heard still singing gay snatches and calling to one another
from distance to distance, as they strolled homeward in groups and pairs. Nor could the impending
danger of an enforced surrender to the English and Indians drive from his mind her beautiful
image, while he lay for the rest of the night between sleeping and waking on his primitive
bed, alternately hearing over again her every phrase and laugh, and striving to formulate some
definite plan for defending the town and fort. His heart was full of her. She had surprised
his nature and filled it, as with a wonderful, haunting song. His youth, his imagination, all
that was fresh and spontaneously gentle and natural in him, was flooded with the magnetic splendor
of her beauty. And yet, in his pride (and it was not a false pride, but rather a noble regard
for his birthright) he vaguely realized how far she was from him, how impossible.

CHAPTER VIII

THE DILEMMA OF CAPTAIN HELM

Oncle Jazon, feeling like a fish returned to the water after a long and torturing captivity
in the open air, plunged into the forest with anticipations of lively adventure and made his
way toward the Wea plains. It was his purpose to get a boat at the village of Ouiatenon and
pull thence up the Wabash until he could find out what the English were doing. He chose for
his companions on this dangerous expedition two expert coureurs de bois, Dutremble and Jacques
Bailoup. Fifty miles up the river they fell in with some friendly Indians, well known to them
all, who were returning from the portage.

The savages informed them that there were no signs of an English advance in that quarter. Some
of them had been as far as the St. Joseph river and to within a short distance of Detroit without
seeing a white man or hearing of any suspicious movements on the part of Hamilton. So back
came Oncle Jazon with his pleasing report, much disappointed that he had not been able to stir
up some sort of trouble.

It was Helm's turn to laugh.

"What did I tell you?" he cried, in a jolly mood, slapping Beverley on the shoulder. "I knew
mighty well that it was all a big story with nothing in it. What on earth would the English
be thinking about to march an army away off down here only to capture a rotten stockade and
a lot of gabbling parly-voos?"

Beverley, while he did not feel quite as confident as his chief, was not sorry that things
looked a little brighter than he had feared they would turn out to be. Secretly, and without
acknowledging it to himself, he was delighted with the life he was living. The Arcadian atmosphere
of Vincennes clothed him in its mists and dreams. No matter what way the weather blew its breath,
cold or warm, cloudy or fair, rain or snow, the peace in his soul changed not. His nature seemed
to hold all of its sterner and fiercer traits in abeyance while he domiciled himself absolutely
within his narrow and monotonous environment. Since the dance at the river house a new content,
like a soft and diffused sweetness, had crept through his blood with a vague, tingling sense
of joy.

He began to like walking about rather aimlessly in the town's narrow streets, with the mud-daubed
cabins on either hand. This simple life under low, thatched roofs had a charm. When a door
was opened he could see a fire of logs on the ample hearth shooting its yellow tongues up the
sooty chimney-throat. Soft creole voices murmured and sang, or jangled their petty domestic
discords. Women in scant petticoats, leggings and moccasins swept snow from the squat verandas,
or fed the pigs in little sties behind the cabins. Everybody cried cheerily: "Bon jour, Monsieur,
comment allez-vous?" as he went by, always accompanying the verbal salute with a graceful wave
of the hand.

When he walked early in the morning a waft of broiling game and browning corn scones was abroad.
Pots and kettles occupied the hearths with glowing coals heaped around and under. Shaggy dogs
whined at the doors until the mensal remnants were tossed out to them in the front yard.

But it was always a glimpse of Alice that must count for everything in Beverley's reckonings,
albeit he would have strenuously denied it. True he went to Roussillon place almost every day,
it being a fixed part of his well ordered habit, and had a talk with her. Sometimes, when Dame
Roussillon was very busy and so quite off her guard, they read together in a novel, or in certain
parts of the odd volume of Montaigne. This was done more for the sweetness of disobedience
than to enjoy the already familiar pages.

Now and again they repeated their fencing bout; but never with the result which followed the
first. Beverley soon mastered Alice's tricks and showed her that, after all, masculine muscle
is not to be discounted at its own game by even the most wonderful womanly strength and suppleness.
She struggled bravely to hold her vantage ground once gained so easily, but the inevitable
was not to be avoided. At last, one howling winter day, he disarmed her by the very trick that
she had shown him. That ended the play and they ran shivering into the house.

"Ah," she cried, "it isn't fair. You are so much bigger than I; you have so much longer arms;
so much more weight and power. It all counts against me! You ought to be ashamed of yourself!"
She was rosy with the exhilarating exercise and the biting of the frosty breeze. Her beauty
gave forth a new ray.

Deep in her heart she was pleased to have him master her so superbly; but as the days passed
she never said so, never gave over trying to make him feel the touch of her foil. She did not
know that her eyes were getting through his guard, that her dimples were stabbing his heart
to its middle.

"You have other advantages," he replied, "which far overbalance my greater stature and stronger
muscles." Then after a pause he added: "After all a girl must be a girl."

Something in his face, something in her heart, startled her so that she made a quick little
move like that of a restless bird.

"You are beautiful and that makes my eyes and my hand uncertain," he went on. "Were I fencing
with a man there would be no glamour."

He spoke in English, which he did not often do in conversation with her. It was a sign that
he was somewhat wrought upon. She followed his rapid words with difficulty; but she caught
from them a new note of feeling. He saw a little pale flare shoot across her face and thought
she was angry.

"You should not use your dimples to distract my vision," he quickly added, with a light laugh.
"It would be no worse for me to throw my hat in your face!"

His attempt at levity was obviously weak; she looked straight into his eyes, with the steady
gaze of a simple, earnest nature shocked by a current quite strange to it. She did not understand
him, and she did. Her fine intuition gathered swiftly together a hundred shreds of impression
received from him during their recent growing intimacy. He was a patrician, as she vaguely
made him out, a man of wealth, whose family was great. He belonged among people of gentle birth
and high attainments. She magnified him so that he was diffused in her imagination, as difficult
to comprehend as a mist in the morning air--and as beautiful.

"You make fun of me," she said, very deliberately, letting her eyes droop; then she looked
up again suddenly and continued, with a certain naive expression of disappointment gathering
in her face. "I have been too free with you. Father Beret told me not to forget my dignity
when in your company. He told me you might misunderstand me. I don't care; I shall not fence
with you again." She laughed, but there was no joyous freedom in the sound.

"Why, Alice--my dear Miss Roussillon, you do me a wrong; I beg a thousand pardons if I've hurt
you," he cried, stepping nearer to her, "and I can never forgive myself. You have somehow misunderstood
me, I know you have!"

On his part it was exaggerating a mere contact of mutual feelings into a dangerous collision.
He was as much self-deceived as was she, and he made more noise about it.

"It is you who have misunderstood me," she replied, smiling brightly now, but with just a faint,
pitiful touch of regret, or self-blame lingering in her voice. "Father Beret said you would.
I did not believe him; but--"

"And you shall not believe him," said Beverley. "I have not misunderstood you. There has been
nothing. You have treated me kindly and with beautiful friendliness. You have not done or said
a thing that Father Beret or anybody else could criticise. And if I have said or done the least
thing to trouble you I repudiate it--I did not mean it. Now you believe me, don't you, Miss
Roussillon?"

He seemed to be falling into the habit of speaking to her in English. She understood it somewhat
imperfectly, especially when in an earnest moment he rushed his words together as if they had
been soldiers he was leading at the charge-step against an enemy. His manner convinced her,
even though his diction fell short.

"Then we'll talk about something else," she said, laughing naturally now, and retreating to
a chair by the hearthside. "I want you to tell me all about yourself and your family, your
home and everything."

She seated herself with an air of conscious aplomb and motioned him to take a distant stool.

There was a great heap of dry logs in the fireplace, with pointed flames shooting out of its
crevices and leaping into the gloomy, cave-like throat of the flue. Outside a wind passed heavily
across the roof and bellowed in the chimney-top.

Beverley drew the stool near Alice, who, with a charred stick, used as a poker, was thrusting
at the glowing crevices and sending showers of sparks aloft.

"Why, there wouldn't be much to tell," he said, glad to feel secure again. "Our home is a big
old mansion named Beverley Hall on a hill among trees, and half surrounded with slave cabins.
It overlooks the plantation in the valley where a little river goes wandering on its way."
He was speaking French and she followed him easily now, her eyes beginning to fling out again
their natural sunny beams of interest. "I was born there twenty-six years ago and haven't done
much of anything since. You see before you, Mademoiselle, a very undistinguished young man,
who has signally failed to accomplish the dream of his boyhood, which was to be a great artist
like Raphael or Angelo. Instead of being famous I am but a poor Lieutenant in the forces of
Virginia."

"You have a mother, father, brothers and sisters?" she interrogated. She did not understand
his allusion to the great artists of whom she knew nothing. She had never before heard of them.
She leaned the poker against the chimney jamb and turned her face toward him.

"Mother, father, and one sister," he said, "no brothers. We were a happy little group. But
my sister married and lives in Baltimore. I am here. Father and mother are alone in the old
house. Sometimes I am terribly homesick." He was silent a moment, then added: "But you are
selfish, you make me do all the telling. Now I want you to give me a little of your story,
Mademoiselle, beginning as I did, at the first."

"But I can't," she replied with childlike frankness, "for I don't know where I was born, nor
my parents' names, nor who I am. You see how different it is with me. I am called Alice Roussillon,
but I suppose that my name is Alice Tarleton; it is not certain, however. There is very little
to help out the theory. Here is all the proof there is. I don't know that it is worth anything."

She took off her locket and handed it to him.

He handled it rather indifferently, for he was just then studying the fine lines of her face.
But in a moment he was interested.

"Tarleton, Tarleton," he repeated. Then he turned the little disc of gold over and saw the
enameled drawing on the back,--a crest clearly outlined.

He started. The crest was quite familiar.

"Where did you get this?" he demanded in English, and with such blunt suddenness that she was
startled. "Where did it come from?"

"I have always had it."

"Always? It's the Tarleton crest. Do you belong to that family?"

"Indeed I do not know. Papa Roussillon says he thinks I do."

"Well, this is strange and interesting," said Beverley, rather to himself than addressing her.
He looked from the miniature to the crest and back to the miniature again, then at Alice. "I
tell you this is strange," he repeated with emphasis. "It is exceedingly strange."

Her cheeks flushed quickly under their soft brown and her eyes flashed with excitement.

"Yes, I know." Her voice fluttered; her hands were clasped in her lap. She leaned toward him
eagerly. "It is strange. I've thought about it a great deal."

"Alice Tarleton; that is right; Alice is a name of the family. Lady Alice Tarleton was the
mother of the first Sir Garnett Tarleton who came over in the time of Yardley. It's a great
family. One of the oldest and best in Virginia." He looked at her now with a gaze of concentrated
interest, under which her eyes fell. "Why, this is romantic!" he exclaimed, "absolutely romantic.
And you don't know how you came by this locket? You don't know who was your father, your mother?"

"I do not know anything."

"And what does Monsieur Roussillon know?"

"Just as little."

"But how came he to be taking you and caring for you? He must know how he got you, where he
got you, of whom he got you? Surely he knows--"

"Oh, I know all that. I was twelve years old when Papa Roussillon took me, eight years ago.
I had been having a hard life, and but for him I must have died. I was a captive among the
Indians. He took me and has cared for me and taught me. He has been very, very good to me.
I love him dearly."

"And don't you remember anything at all about when, where, how the Indians got you?"

"No." She shook her head and seemed to be trying to recollect something. "No, I just can't
remember; and yet there has always been something like a dream in my mind, which I could not
quite get hold of. I know that I am not a Catholic. I vaguely remember a sweet woman who taught
me to pray like this: 'Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be Thy name.'"

And Alice went on through the beautiful and perfect prayer, which she repeated in English with
infinite sweetness and solemnity, her eyes uplifted, her hands clasped before her. Beverley
could have sworn that she was a shining saint, and that he saw an aureole.

"I know," she continued, "that sometime, somewhere, to a very dear person I promised that I
never, never, never would pray any prayer but that. And I remember almost nothing else about
that other life, which is far off back yonder in the past, I don't know where,--sweet, peaceful,
shadowy; a dream that I have all but lost from my mind."

Beverley's sympathy was deeply moved. He sat for some minutes looking at her without speaking.
She, too, was pensive and silent, while the fire sputtered and sang, the great logs slowly
melting, the flames tossing wisps of smoke into the chimney still booming to the wind.

"I know, too, that I am not French," she presently resumed, "but I don't know just how I know
it. My first words must have been English, for I have always dreamed of talking in that language,
and my dimmest half recollections of the old days are of a large, white house, and a soft-voiced
black woman, who sang to me in that language the very sweetest songs in the world."

It must be borne in mind that all this was told by Alice in her creole French, half bookish,
half patois, of which no translation can give any fair impression.

Beverley listened, as one who hears a clever reader intoning a strange and captivating poem.
He was charmed. His imagination welcomed the story and furnished it with all that it lacked
of picturesque completeness. In those days it was no uncommon thing for a white child to be
found among the Indians with not a trace left by which to restore it to its people. He had
often heard of such a case. But here was Alice right before him, the most beautiful girl that
he had ever seen, telling him the strangest story of all. To his mind it was clear that she
belonged to the Tarleton family of Virginia. Youth always concludes a matter at once. He knew
some of the Tarletons; but it was a widely scattered family, its members living in almost every
colony in America. The crest he recognized at a glance by the dragon on the helmet with three
stars. It was not for a woman to bear; but doubtless it had been enameled on the locket merely
as a family mark, as was often done in America.

"The black woman was your nurse, your mammy," he said. "I know by that and by your prayer in
English, as well as by your locket, that you are of a good old family."

Like most Southerners, he had strong faith in genealogy, and he held at his tongue's tip the
names of all the old families. The Carters, the Blairs, the Fitzhughs, the Hansons, the Randolphs,
the Lees, the Ludwells, the Joneses, the Beverleys, the Tarletons--a whole catalogue of them
stretched back in his memory. He knew the coat of arms displayed by each house. He could repeat
their legends.

"I wish you could tell me more," he went on. "Can't you recollect anything further about your
early childhood, your first impressions--the house, the woman who taught you to pray, the old
black mammy? Any little thing might be of priceless value as evidence."

Alice shrugged her shoulders after the creole fashion with something of her habitual levity
of manner, and laughed. His earnestness seemed disproportioned to the subject, as she fancied
he must view it, although to her it had always been something to dream over. It was impossible
for her to realize, as he did, the importance of details in solving a problem like that involved
in her past history. Nor could she feel the pathos and almost tragic fascination with which
her story had touched him.

"There is absolutely nothing more to tell," she said. "All my life I have tried to remember
more, but it's impossible; I can't get any further back or call up another thing. There's no
use trying. It's all like a dream--probably it is one. I do have such dreams. In my sleep I
can lift myself into the air, just as easy, and fly back to the same big white house that I
seem to remember. When you told me about your home it was like something that I had often seen
before. I shall be dreaming about it next!"

Beverley cross-questioned her from every possible point of view; he was fascinated with the
mystery; but she gave him nothing out of which the least further light could be drawn. A half-breed
woman, it seemed, had been her Indian foster-mother; a silent, grave, watchful guardian from
whom not a hint of disclosure ever fell. She was, moreover, a Christian woman, had received
her conversion from an English-speaking Protestant missionary. She prayed with Alice, thus
keeping in the child's mind a perfect memory of the Lord's prayer.

"Well," said Beverley at last, "you are more of a mystery to me, the longer I know you."

"Then I must grow every day more distasteful to you."

"No, I love mystery."

He went away feeling a new web of interest binding him to this inscrutable maiden whose life
seemed to him at once so full of idyllic happiness and so enshrouded in tantalizing doubt.
At the first opportunity he frankly questioned M. Roussillon, with no helpful result. The big
Frenchman told the same meager story. The woman was dying in the time of a great epidemic,
which killed most of her tribe. She gave Alice to M. Roussillon, but told him not a word about
her ancestry or previous life. That was all.

A wise old man, when he finds himself in a blind alley, no sooner touches the terminal wall
than he faces about and goes back the way he came. Under like circumstances a young man must
needs try to batter the wall down with his head. Beverley endeavored to break through the web
of mystery by sheer force. It seemed to him that a vigorous attempt could not fail to succeed;
but, like the fly in the spider's lines, he became more hopelessly bound at every move he made.
Moreover against his will he was realizing that he could no longer deceive himself about Alice.
He loved her, and the love was mastering him body and soul. Such a confession carries with
it into an honest masculine heart a sense of contending responsibilities. In Beverley's case
the clash was profoundly disturbing. And now he clutched the thought that Alice was not a mere
child of the woods, but a daughter of an old family of cavaliers!

With coat buttoned close against the driving wind, he strode toward the fort in one of those
melodramatic moods to which youth in all climes and times is subject. It was like a slap in
the face when Captain Helm met him at the stockade gate and said:

"Well, sir, you are good at hiding."

"Hiding! what do you mean, Captain Helm?" he demanded, not in the mildest tone.

"I mean, sir, that I've been hunting you for an hour and more, over the whole of this damned
town. The English and Indians are upon us, and there's no time for fooling. Where are all the men?"

Beverley comprehended the situation in a second. Helm's face was congested with excitement.
Some scouts had come in with the news that Governor Hamilton, at the head of five or six hundred
soldiers and Indians, was only three or four miles up the river.

"Where are all the men?" Helm repeated.

"Buffalo hunting, most of them," said Beverley.

"What in hell are they off hunting buffaloes for?" raged the excited captain.

"You might go to hell and see," Beverley suggested, and they both laughed in sheer masculine
contempt of a predicament too grave for anything but grim mirth.

What could they do? Even Oncle Jazon and Rene de Ronville were off with the hunters. Helm sent
for M. Roussillon in the desperate hope that he could suggest something; but he lost his head
and hustled off to hide his money and valuables. Indeed the French people all felt that, so
far as they were concerned, the chief thing was to save what they had. They well knew that
it mattered little which of the two masters held over them--they must shift for themselves.
In their hearts they were true to France and America; but France and America could not now
protect them against Hamilton; therefore it would be like suicide to magnify patriotism or
any other sentiment objectionable to the English. So they acted upon M. Roussillon's advice
and offered no resistance when the new army approached.

"My poor people are not disloyal to your flag and your cause," said good Father Beret next
morning to Captain Helm, "but they are powerless. Winter is upon us. What would you have us
do? This rickety fort is not available for defense; the men are nearly all far away on the
plains. Isn't it the part of prudence and common sense to make the best of a desperate situation?
Should we resist, the British and their savage allies would destroy the town and commit outrages
too horrible to think about. In this case diplomacy promises much more than a hopeless fight
against an overwhelming force."

"I'll fight 'em," Helm ground out between his teeth, "if I have to do it single-handed and
alone! I'll fight 'em till hell freezes over!"

Father Beret smiled grimly, as if he, too, would enjoy a lively skirmish on the ice of Tophet,
and said:

"I admire your courage, my son. Fighting is perfectly proper upon fair occasion. But think
of the poor women and children. These old eyes of mine have seen some terrible things done
by enraged savages. Men can die fighting; but their poor wives and daughters--ah, I have seen,
I have seen!"

Beverley felt a pang of terror shoot through his heart as Father Beret's simple words made
him think of Alice in connection with an Indian massacre.

"Of course, of course it's horrible to think of," said Helm; "but my duty is clear, and that
flag," he pointed to where la banniere d'Alice Roussillon was almost blowing away in the cold
wind, "that flag shall not come down save in full honor."

His speech sounded preposterously boastful and hollow; but he was manfully in earnest; every
word came from his brave heart.

Father Beret's grim smile returned, lighting up his strongly marked face with the strangest
expression imaginable.

"We will get all the women inside the fort," Helm began to say.

"Where the Indians will find them ready penned up and at their mercy," quickly interpolated
the priest "That will not do."

"Well, then, what can be done?" Beverley demanded, turning with a fierce stare upon Father
Beret. "Don't stand there objecting to everything, with not a suggestion of your own to offer."

"I know what is best for my people," the old man replied softly, still smiling, "I have advised
them to stay inside their houses and take no part in the military event. It is the only hope
of averting an indiscriminate massacre, and things worse."

The curt phrase, "things worse," went like a bullet-stroke through Beverley's heart. It flashed
an awful picture upon his vision. Father Beret saw his face whiten and his lips set themselves
to resist a great emotion.

"Do not be angry with me, my son," he said, laying a hand on the young man's arm. "I may be
wrong, but I act upon long and convincing experience."

"Experience or no experience," Helm exclaimed with an oath, "this fort must be manned and defended.
I am commanding here!"

"Yes, I recognize your authority," responded the priest in a firm yet deferential tone, "and
I heartily wish you had a garrison; but where is your command, Captain Helm?" Then it was that
the doughty Captain let loose the accumulated profanity with which he had been for some time
well-nigh bursting. He tiptoed in order to curse with extremest violence. His gestures were
threatening. He shook his fists at Father Beret, without really meaning offence.

"Where is my garrison, you ask! Yes, and I can tell you. It's where you might expect a gang
of dad blasted jabbering French good-for-nothings to be, off high-gannicking around shooting
buffaloes instead of staying here and defending their wives, children, homes and country, damn
their everlasting souls! The few I have in the fort will sneak off, I suppose."

"The French gave you this post on easy terms, Captain," blandly retorted Father Beret.

"Yes, and they'll hand it over to Hamilton, you think, on the same basis," cried Helm, "but
I'll show you! I'll show you, Mr. Priest!"

"Pardon me, Captain, the French are loyal to you and to the flag yonder. They have sworn it.
Time will prove it. But in the present desperate dilemma we must choose the safer horn."

Saying this Father Beret turned about and went his way. He was chuckling heartily as he passed
out of the gate.

"He is right," said Beverley after a few moments of reflection, during which he was wholly
occupied with Alice, whose terrified face in his anticipation appealed to him from the midst
of howling savages, smoking cabins and mangled victims of lust and massacre. His imagination
painted the scene with a merciless realism that chilled his blood. All the sweet romance fell
away from Vincennes.

"Well, sir, right or wrong, your, duty is to obey orders," said Helm with brutal severity.

"We had better not quarrel, Captain," Beverley replied. "I have not signified any unwillingness
to obey your commands. Give them, and you will have no cause to grumble."

"Forgive me, old fellow," cried the impulsive commander. "I know you are true as steel. I s'pose
I'm wound up too tight to be polite. But the time is come to do something. Here we are with
but five or six men--"

He was interrupted by the arrival of two more half-breed scouts.

Only three miles away was a large flotilla of boats and canoes with cannon, a force of Indians
on land and the British flag flying,--that was the report.

"They are moving rapidly," said the spokesman, "and will be here very soon. They are at least
six hundred strong, all well armed."

"Push that gun to the gate, and load it to the muzzle, Lieutenant Beverley," Helm ordered with
admirable firmness, the purple flush in his face giving way to a grayish pallor. "We are going
to die right here, or have the honors of war."

Beverley obeyed without a word. He even loaded two guns instead of one--charging each so heavily
that the last wad looked as if ready to leap from the grimy mouth.

Helm had already begun, on receiving the first report, a hasty letter to Colonel Clark at Kaskaskia.
He now added a few words and at the last moment sent it out by a trusted man, who was promptly
captured by Hamilton's advance guard. The missive, evidently written in installments during
the slow approach of the British, is still in the Canadian archives, and runs thus:

"Dear Sir--At this time there is an army within three miles of this place; I heard of their
coming several days beforehand. I sent spies to find the certainty--the spies being taken prisoner
I never got intelligence till they got within three miles of town. As I had called the militia
and had all assurances of their integrity I ordered at the firing of a cannon every man to
appear, but I saw but few. Captain Buseron behaved much to his honor and credit, but I doubt
the conduct of a certain gent. Excuse haste, as the army is in sight. My determination is to
defend the garrison, (sic) though I have but twenty-one men but what has left me. I refer you
to Mr. Wmes (sic) for the rest. The army is within three hundred yards of the village. You
must think how I feel; not four men that I really depend upon; but am determined to act brave--think
of my condition. I know it is out of my power to defend the town, as not one of the militia
will take arms, though before sight of the army no braver men. There is a flag at a small distance,
I must conclude.

"Your humble servant,

"Leo'd Helm. Must stop."

"To Colonel Clark."

Having completed this task, the letter shows under what a nervous strain, Helm turned to his
lieutenant and said:

"Fire a swivel with a blank charge. We'll give these weak-kneed parly-voos one more call to
duty. Of course not a frog-eater of them all will come. But I said that a gun should be the
signal. Possibly they didn't hear the first one, the damned, deaf, cowardly hounds!"

Beverley wheeled forth the swivel and rammed a charge of powder home. But when he fired it,
the effect was far from what it should have been. Instead of calling in a fresh body of militia,
it actually drove out the few who up to that moment had remained as a garrison; so that Captain
Helm and his Lieutenant found themselves quite alone in the fort, while out before the gate,
deployed in fine open order, a strong line of British soldiers approached with sturdy steps,
led by a tall, erect, ruddy-faced young officer.

CHAPTER IX

THE HONORS OF WAR

Gaspard Roussillon was thoroughly acquainted with savage warfare, and he knew all the pacific
means so successfully and so long used by French missionaries and traders to control savage
character; but the emergency now upon him was startling. It confused him. The fact that he
had taken a solemn oath of allegiance to the American government could have been pushed aside
lightly enough upon pressing occasion, but he knew that certain confidential agents left in
Vincennes by Governor Abbott had, upon the arrival of Helm, gone to Detroit, and of course
they had carried thither a full report of all that happened in the church of St. Xavier, when
Father Gibault called the people together, and at the fort, when the British flag was hauled
down and la banniere d'Alice Roussillon run up in its place. His expansive imagination did
full credit to itself in exaggerating the importance of his part in handing the post over to
the rebels. And what would Hamilton think of this? Would he consider it treason? The question
certainly bore a tragic suggestion.

M. Roussillon lacked everything of being a coward, and treachery had no rightful place in his
nature. He was, however, so in the habit of fighting windmills and making mountains of molehills
that he could not at first glance see any sudden presentment with a normal vision. He had no
love for Englishmen and he did like Americans, but he naturally thought that Helm's talk of
fighting Hamilton was, as his own would have been in a like case, talk and nothing more. The
fort could not hold out an hour, he well knew. Then what? Ah, he but too well realized the result.

Resistance would inflame the English soldiers and madden the Indians. There would be a massacre,
and the belts of savages would sag with bloody scalps. He shrugged his shoulders and felt a
chill creep up his back.

The first thing M. Roussillon did was to see Father Beret and take counsel of him; then he
hurried home to dig a great pit under his kitchen floor in which he buried many bales of fur
and all his most valuable things. He worked like a giant beaver all night long. Meantime Father
Beret went about over the town quietly notifying the inhabitants to remain in their houses
until after the fort should surrender, which he was sure would happen the next day.

"You will be perfectly safe, my children," he said to them. "No harm can come to you if you
follow my directions."

Relying implicitly upon him, they scrupulously obeyed in every particular.

He did not think it necessary to call at Roussillon place, having already given M. Roussillon
the best advice he could command.

Just at the earliest break of day, while yet the gloom of night scarcely felt the sun's approach,
a huge figure made haste along the narrow streets in the northern part of the town. If any
person had been looking out through the little holes, called windows, in those silent and rayless
huts, it would have been easy to recognize M. Roussillon by his stature and his gait, dimly
outlined as he was. A thought, which seemed to him an inspiration of genius, had taken possession
of him and was leading him, as if by the nose, straight away to Hamilton's lines. He was freighted
with eloquence for the ear of that commander, and as he strode along facing the crisp morning
air he was rehearsing under his breath, emphasizing his periods in tragic whispers with sweeping
gestures and liberal facial contortions. So absorbed was he in his oratorical soliloquy that
he forgot due military precaution and ran plump into the face of a savage picket guard who,
without respect for the great M. Roussillon's dignity, sprang up before him, grunted cavernously,
flourished a tomahawk and spoke in excellent and exceedingly guttural Indian:

"Wah, surrender!"

It is probable that no man ever complied with a modest request in a more docile spirit than
did M. Roussillon upon that occasion. In fact his promptness must have been admirable, for
the savage grunted approval and straightway conducted him to Hamilton's headquarters on a batteau
in the river.

The British commander, a hale man of sandy complexion and probably under middle age, was in
no very pleasant humor. Some of his orders had been misunderstood by the chief of his Indian
allies, so that a premature exposure of his approach had been made to the enemy.

"Well, sir, who are you?" he gruffly demanded, when M. Roussillon loomed before him.

"I am Gaspard Roussillon, the Mayor of Vincennes," was the lofty reply. "I have come to announce
to you officially that my people greet you loyally and that my town is freely at your command."
He felt as important as if his statements had been true.

"Humph, that's it, is it? Well, Mr. Mayor, you have my congratulations, but I should prefer
seeing the military commander and accepting his surrender. What account can you give me of
the American forces, their numbers and condition?"

M. Roussillon winced, inwardly at least, under Hamilton's very undeferential air and style
of address. It piqued him cruelly to be treated as a person without the slightest claim to
respect. He somehow forgot the rolling and rhythmical eloquence prepared for the occasion.

"The American commander naturally would not confide in me, Monsieur le Gouverneur, not at all;
we are not very friendly; he ousted me from office, he offended me--" he was coughing and stammering.

"Oh, the devil! what do I care? Answer my question, sir," Hamilton gruffly interrupted. "Tell
me the number of American troops at the fort, sir."

"I don't know exactly. I have not had admittance to the fort. I might be deceived as to numbers;
but they're strong, I believe, Monsieur le Gouverneur, at least they make a great show and
much noise."

Hamilton eyed the huge bulk before him for a moment, then turning to a subaltern said:

"Place this fellow under guard and see that he doesn't get away. Send word immediately to Captain
Farnsworth that I wish to see him at once."

The interview thereupon closed abruptly. Hamilton's emissaries had given him a detailed account
of M. Roussillon's share in submitting Vincennes to rebel dominion, and he was not in the least
inclined toward treating him graciously.

"I would suggest to you, Monsieur le Gouverneur, that my official position demands--" M. Roussillon
began; but he was fastened upon by two guards, who roughly hustled him aft and bound him so
rigidly that he could scarcely move finger or toe.

Hamilton smiled coldly and turned to give some orders to a stalwart, ruddy young officer who
in a canoe had just rowed alongside the batteau.

"Captain Farnsworth," he said, acknowledging the military salute, "you will take fifty men
and make everything ready for a reconnaissance in the direction of the fort. We will move down
the river immediately and choose a place to land. Move lively, we have no time to lose."

In the meantime Beverley slipped away from the fort and made a hurried call upon Alice at Roussillon
place. There was not much they could say to each other during the few moments at command. Alice
showed very little excitement; her past experience had fortified her against the alarms of
frontier life; but she understood and perfectly appreciated the situation.

"What are you going to do?" Beverley demanded in sheer despair. He was not able to see any
gleam of hope out of the blackness which had fallen around him and into his soul.

"What shall you do?" he repeated.

"Take the chances of war," she said, smiling gravely. "It will all come out well, no doubt."

"I hope so, but--but I fear not."

His face was gray with trouble. "Helm is determined to fight, and that means--"

"Good!" she interrupted with spirit. "I am so glad of that. I wish I could go to help him!
If I were a man I'd love to fight! I think it's just delightful."

"But it is reckless bravado; it is worse than foolishness," said Beverley, not feeling her
mood. "What can two or three men do against an army?"

"Fight and die like men," she replied, her whole countenance lighting up. "Be heroic!"

"We will do that, of course; we--I do not fear death; but you--you--" His voice choked him.

A gun shot rang out clear in the distance, and he did not finish speaking.

"That's probably the beginning," he added in a moment, extending both hands to her. "Good bye.
I must hurry to the fort. Good bye."

She drew a quick breath and turned so white that her look struck him like a sudden and hard
blow. He stood for a second, his arms at full reach, then:

"My God, Alice, I cannot, cannot leave you!" he cried, his voice again breaking huskily.

She made a little movement, as if to take hold of his hands: but in an instant she stepped
back a pace and said:

"Don't fear about me. I can take care of myself. I'm all right. You'd better return to the
fort as quickly as you can. It is your country, your flag, not me, that you must think of now."

She folded her arms and stood boldly erect.

Never before, in all his life, had he felt such a rebuke. He gave her a straight, strong look
in the eyes.

"You are right, Alice." he cried, and rushed from the house to the fort.

She held her rigid attitude for a little while after she heard him shut the front gate of the
yard so forcibly that it broke in pieces, then she flung her arms wide, as if to clasp something,
and ran to the door; but Beverley was out of sight. She turned and dropped into a chair. Jean
came to her out of the next room. His queer little face was pale and pinched; but his jaw was
set with the expression of one who has known danger and can meet it somehow.

"Are they going to scalp us?" he half whispered presently, with a shuddering lift of his distorted
shoulders.

Her face was buried in her hands and she did not answer. Childlike he turned from one question
to another inconsequently.

"Where did Papa Roussillon go to?" he next inquired. "Is he going to fight?"

She shook her head.

"They'll tear down the fort, won't they?"

If she heard him she did not make any sign.

"They'll kill the Captain and Lieutenant and get the fine flag that you set so high on the
fort, won't they, Alice?"

She lifted her head and gave the cowering hunchback such a stare that he shut his eyes and
put up a hand, as if afraid of her. Then she impulsively took his little misshapen form in
her arms and hugged it passionately. Her bright hair fell all over him, almost hiding him.
Madame Roussillon was lying on a bed in an adjoining room moaning diligently, at intervals
handling her rosary and repeating a prayer. The whole town was silent outside.

"Why don't you go get the pretty flag down and hide it before they come?" Jean murmured from
within the silken meshes of Alice's hair.

In his small mind the gaudy banner was the most beautiful of all things. Every day since it
was set up he had gone to gaze at it as it fluttered against the sky. The men had frequently
said in his presence that the enemy would take it down if they captured the fort.

Alice heard his inquisitive voice; but it seemed to come from far off; his words were a part
of the strange, wild swirl in her bosom. Beverley's look, as he turned and left her, now shook
every chord of her being. He had gone to his death at her command. How strong and true and
brave he was! In her imagination she saw the flag above him, saw him die like a panther at
bay, saw the gay rag snatched down and torn to shreds by savage hands. It was the tragedy of
a single moment, enacted in a flashlight of anticipation.

She released Jean so suddenly that he fell to the floor. She remembered what she had said to
Beverley on the night of the dance when they were standing under the flag.

"You made it and set it up," he lightly remarked; "you must see that no enemy ever gets possession
of it, especially the English."

"I'll take it down and hide it when there's danger of that," she said in the same spirit.

And now she stood there looking at Jean, without seeing him, and repeated the words under her
breath.

"I'll take it down and hide it. They shan't have it."

Madame Roussillon began to call from the other room in a loud, complaining voice; but Alice
gave no heed to her querulous demands.

"Stay here, Jean, and take care of Mama Roussillon," she presently said to the hunchback. "I
am going out; I'll be back soon; don't you dare leave the house while I'm gone; do you hear?"

She did not wait for his answer; but snatching a hood-like fur cap from a peg on the wall,
she put it on and hastily left the house.

Down at the fort Helm and Beverley were making ready to resist Hamilton's attack, which they
knew would not be long deferred. The two heavily charged cannon were planted so as to cover
the space in front of the gate, and some loaded muskets were ranged near by ready for use.

"We'll give them one hell of a blast," growled the Captain, "before they overpower us."

Beverley made no response in words; but he was preparing a bit of tinder on the end of a stick
with which to fire the cannon. Not far away a little heap of logs was burning in the fort's area.

The British officer, already mentioned as at the head of the line advancing diagonally from
the river's bank, halted his men at a distance of three hundred yards from the fort, and seemed
to be taking a deliberately careful survey of what was before him.

"Let 'em come a little nearer, Lieutenant," said Helm, his jaw setting itself like a lion's.
"When we shoot we want to hit."

He stooped and squinted along his gun.

"When they get to that weedy spot out yonder," he added, "just opposite the little rise in
the river bank, we'll turn loose on 'em."

Beverley had arranged his primitive match to suit his fancy, and for probably the twentieth
time looked critically to the powder in the beveled touch-hole of his old cannon. He and Helm
were facing the enemy, with their backs to the main area of the stockade, when a well known
voice attracted their attention to the rear.

"Any room for a feller o' my size in this here crowded place?" it demanded in a cracked but
cheerful tenor. "I'm kind o' outen breath a runnin' to git here."

They turned about. It was Oncle Jazon with his long rifle on his shoulder and wearing a very
important air. He spoke in English, using the backwoods lingo with the ease of long practice.

"As I's a comin' in f'om a huntin' I tuck notice 'at somepin' was up. I see a lot o' boats
on the river an' some fellers wi' guns a scootin' around, so I jes' slipped by 'em all an'
come in the back way. They's plenty of 'em, I tell you what! I can't shoot much, but I tuck
one chance at a buck Indian out yander and jes' happened to hit 'im in the lef' eye. He was
one of the gang 'at scalped me down yander in Kaintuck."

The greasy old sinner looked as if he had not been washed since he was born. He glanced about
with furtive, shifty eyes, grimaced and winked, after the manner of an animal just waking from
a lazy nap.

"Where's the rest o' the fighters?" he demanded quizzically, lolling out his tongue and peeping
past Helm so as to get a glimpse of the English line. "Where's yer garrison? Have they all
gone to breakfas'?"

The last question set Helm off again cursing and swearing in the most melodramatic rage.

Oncle Jazon turned to Beverley and said in rapid French: "Surely the man's not going to fight
those fellows yonder?"

Beverley nodded rather gloomily.

"Well," added the old man, fingering his rifle's stock and taking another glance through the
gate, "I can't shoot wo'th a cent, bein' sort o' nervous like; but I'll stan' by ye awhile,
jes' for luck. I might accidentally hit one of 'em."

When a man is truly brave himself there is nothing that touches him like an exhibition of absolutely
unselfish gameness in another. A rush of admiration for Oncle Jazon made Beverley feel like
hugging him.

Meantime the young British officer showed a flag of truce, and, with a file of men, separated
himself from the line, now stationary, and approached the stockade. At a hundred yards he halted
the file and came on alone, waving the white clout. He boldly advanced to within easy speaking
distance and shouted:

"I demand the surrender of this fort."

"Well, you'll not get it, young man," roared Helm, his profanity well mixed in with the words,
"not while there's a man of us left!"

"Ye'd better use sof' soap on 'im, Cap'n," said Oncle Jazon in English, "cussin' won't do no
good." While he spoke he rubbed the doughty Captain's arm and then patted it gently.

Helm, who was not half as excited as he pretended to be, knew that Oncle Jazon's remark was
the very essence of wisdom; but he was not yet ready for the diplomatic language which the
old trooper called "soft soap."

"Are you the British commander?" he demanded.

"No," said the officer, "but I speak for him."

"Not to me by a damned sight, sir. Tell your commander that I will hear what he has to say
from his own mouth. No understrapper will be recognized by me."

That ended the conference. The young officer, evidently indignant, strode back to his line,
and an hour later Hamilton himself demanded the unconditional surrender of the fort and garrison.

"Fight for it," Helm stormed forth. "We are soldiers."

Hamilton held a confab with his officers, while his forces, under cover of the town's cabins,
were deploying so as to form a half circle about the stockade. Some artillery appeared and
was planted directly opposite the gate, not three hundred yards distant. One blast of that
battery would, as Helm well knew, level a large part of the stockade.

"S'posin' I hev' a cannon, too, seein' it's the fashion," said Oncle Jazon. "I can't shoot
much, but I might skeer 'em. This little one'll do me."

He set his rifle against the wall and with Beverley's help rolled one of the swivels alongside
the guns already in position.

In a few minutes Hamilton returned under the white flag and shouted:

"Upon what terms will you surrender?"

"All the honors of war," Helm firmly replied. "It's that or fight, and I don't care a damn which!"

Hamilton half turned away, as if done with the parley, then facing the fort again, said:

"Very well, sir, haul down your flag."

Helm was dumfounded at this prompt acceptance of his terms. Indeed the incident is unique in
history.

As Hamilton spoke he very naturally glanced up to where la banniere d'Alice Roussillon waved
brilliantly. Someone stood beside it on the dilapidated roof of the old blockhouse, and was
already taking it from its place. His aid, Captain Farnsworth, saw this, and the vision made
his heart draw in a strong, hot flood It was a girl in short skirts and moccasins, with a fur
hood on her head, her face, thrillingly beautiful, set around with fluffs of wind-blown brown-gold
hair. Farnsworth was too young to be critical and too old to let his eyes deceive him. Every
detail of the fine sketch, with its steel-blue background of sky, flashed into his mind, sharp-cut
as a cameo. Involuntarily he took off his hat.

Alice had come in by way of the postern. She mounted to the roof unobserved, and made her way
to the flag, just at the moment when Helm, glad at heart to accept the easiest way out of a
tight place, asked Oncle Jazon to lower it.

Beverley was thinking of Alice, and when he looked up he could scarcely realize that he saw
her; but the whole situation was plain the instant she snatched the staff from its place; for
he, too, recollected what she had said at the river house. The memory and the present scene
blended perfectly during the fleeting instant that she was visible. He saw that Alice was smiling
somewhat as in her most mischievous moods, and when she jerked the staff from its fastening
she lifted it high and waved it once, twice, thrice defiantly toward the British lines, then
fled down the ragged roof-slope with it and disappeared. The vision remained in Beverley's
eyes forever afterward. The English troops, thinking that the flag was taken down in token
of surrender, broke into a wild tumult of shouting.

Oncle Jazon intuitively understood just what Alice was doing, for he knew her nature and could
read her face. His blood effervesced in an instant.

"Vive Zhorzh Vasinton! Vive la banniere d'Alice Roussillon!" he screamed, waving his disreputable
cap round his scalpless head. "Hurrah for George Washington! Hurrah for Alice Roussillon's flag!"

It was all over soon. Helm surrendered himself and Beverley with full honors. As for Oncle
Jazon, he disappeared at the critical moment. It was not just to his mind to be a prisoner
of war, especially under existing conditions; for Hamilton's Indian allies had some old warpath
scores to settle with him dating back to the days when he and Simon Kenton were comrades in
Kentucky.

When Alice snatched the banner and descended with it to the ground, she ran swiftly out through
the postern, as she had once before done, and sped along under cover of the low bluff or swell,
which, terrace-like, bounded the flat "bottom" lands southward of the stockade. She kept on
until she reached a point opposite Father Beret's hut, to which she then ran, the flag streaming
bravely behind her in the wind, her heart beating time to her steps.

It was plainly a great surprise to Father Beret, who looked up from his prayer when she rushed
in, making a startling clatter, the loose puncheons shaking together under her reckless feet.

"Oh, Father, here it is! Hide it, hide it, quick!"

She thrust the flag toward him.

"They shall not have it! They shall never have it!"

He opened wide his shrewd, kindly eyes; but did not fairly comprehend her meaning.

She was panting, half laughing, half crying. Her hair, wildly disheveled, hung in glorious
masses over her shoulders. Her face beamed triumphantly.

"They are taking the fort," she breathlessly added, again urging the flag upon him, "they're
going in, but I got this and ran away with it. Hide it, Father, hide it, quick, quick, before
they come!"

The daring light in her eyes, the witching play of her dimples, the madcap air intensified
by her attitude and the excitement of the violent exercise just ended--something compounded
of all these and more--affected the good priest strangely. Involuntarily he crossed himself,
as if against a dangerous charm.

"Mon Dieu, Father Beret," she exclaimed with impatience, "haven't you a grain of sense left?
Take this flag and hide it, I tell you! Don't stay there gazing and blinking. Here, quick!
They saw me take it, they may be following me. Hurry, hide it somewhere!"

He comprehended now, rising from his knees with a queer smile broadening on his face. She put
the banner into his hands and gave him a gentle push.

"Hide it, I tell you, hide it, you dear old goose!"

Without sneaking he turned the staff over and over in his hand, until the flag was closely
wrapped around it, then stooping he lifted a puncheon and with it covered the gay roll from sight.

Alice caught him in her arms and kissed him vigorously on the cheek. Her warm lips made the
spot tingle.

"Don't you dare to let any person have it! It's the flag of George Washington."

She gave him a strong squeeze.

He pushed her from him with both hands and hastily crossed himself; but his eyes were laughing.

"You ought to have seen me; I waved the flag at them--at the English--and one young officer
took off his hat to me! Oh, Father Beret, it was like what is in a novel. They'll get the fort,
but not the banner! Not the banner! I've saved it, I've saved it!"

Her enthusiasm gave a splendor to her countenance, heightening its riches of color and somehow
adding to its natural girlish expression an audacious sweetness. The triumphant success of
her undertaking lent the dignity of conscious power to her look, a dignity which always sits
well upon a young and somewhat immaturely beautiful face.

Father Beret could not resist her fervid eloquence, and he could not run away from her or stop
up his ears while she went on. So he had to laugh when she said:

"Oh, if you had seen it all you would have enjoyed it. There was Oncle Jazon squatting behind
the little swivel, and there were Captain Helm and Lieutenant Beverley holding their burning
sticks over the big cannon ready to shoot--all of them so intent that they didn't see me--and
yonder came the English officer and his army against the three. When they got close to the
gate the officer called out: 'Surrender!' and then Captain Helm yelled back: 'Damned if I do!
Come another step and I'll blow you all to hell in a second!' I was mightily in hopes that
they'd come on; I wanted to see a cannon ball hit that English commander right in the face;
he looked so arrogant."

Father Beret shook his head and tried to look disapproving and solemn.

Meantime down at the fort Hamilton was demanding the flag. He had seen Alice take it down,
and supposed that it was lowered officially and would be turned over to him. Now he wanted
to handle it as the best token of his bloodless but important victory.

"I didn't order the flag down until after I had accepted your terms," said Helm, "and when
my man started to obey, we saw a young lady snatch it and run away with it."

"Who was the girl?"

"I do not inform on women," said Helm.

Hamilton smiled grimly, with a vexed look in his eyes, then turned to Captain Farnsworth and
ordered him to bring up M. Roussillon, who, when he appeared, still had his hands tied together.

"Tell me the name of the young woman who carried away the flag from the fort. You saw her,
you know every soul in this town. Who was it, sir?"

It was a hard question for M. Roussillon to answer. Although his humiliating captivity had
somewhat cowed him, still his love for Alice made it impossible for him to give the information
demanded by Hamilton. He choked and stammered, but finally managed to say:

"I assure you that I don't know--I didn't look--I didn't see--It was too far off for me to--I
was some-what excited--I--"

"Take him away. Keep him securely bound," said Hamilton. "Confine him. We'll see how long it
will take to refresh his mind. We'll puncture the big windbag."

While this curt scene was passing, the flag of Great Britain rose over the fort to the lusty
cheering of the victorious soldiers.

Hamilton treated Helm and Beverley with extreme courtesy. He was a soldier, gruff, unscrupulous
and cruel to a degree; but he could not help admiring the daring behavior of these two officers
who had wrung from him the best terms of surrender. He gave them full liberty, on parole of
honor not to attempt escape or to aid in any way an enemy against him while they were prisoners.

Nor was it long before Helm's genial and sociable disposition won the Englishman's respect
and confidence to such an extent that the two became almost inseparable companions, playing
cards, brewing toddies, telling stories, and even shooting deer in the woods together, as if
they had always been the best of friends.

Hamilton did not permit his savage allies to enter the town, and he immediately required the
French inhabitants to swear allegiance to Great Britain, which they did with apparent heartiness,
all save M. Roussillon, who was kept in close confinement and bound like a felon, chafing lugubriously
and wearing the air of a martyr. His prison was a little log pen in one corner of the stockade,
much open to the weather, its gaping cracks giving him a dreary view of the frozen landscape
through which the Wabash flowed in a broad steel-gray current. Helm, who really liked him,
tried in vain to procure his release; but Hamilton was inexorable on account of what he regarded
as duplicity in M. Roussillon's conduct.

"No, I'll let him reflect," he said; "there's nothing like a little tyranny to break up a bad
case of self-importance. He'll soon find out that he has over-rated himself!"

CHAPTER X

M. ROUSSILLON ENTERTAINS COLONEL HAMILTON

A day or two after the arrival of Hamilton the absent garrison of buffalo hunters straggled
back to Vincennes and were duly sworn to demean themselves as lawful subjects of Great Britain.
Rene de Ronville was among the first to take the oath, and it promptly followed that Hamilton
ordered him pressed into service as a wood-chopper and log-hauler during the erection of a
new blockhouse, large barracks and the making of some extensive repairs of the stockade. Nothing
could have been more humiliating to the proud young Frenchman. Every day he had to report bright
and early to a burly Irish Corporal and be ordered about, as if he had been a slave, cursed
at, threatened and forced to work until his hands were blistered and his muscles sore. The
bitterest part of it all was that he had to trudge past both Roussillon place and the Bourcier
cabin with the eyes of Alice and Adrienne upon him.

Hamilton did not forget M. Roussillon in this connection. The giant orator soon found himself
face to face with a greater trial even than Rene's. He was calmly told by the English commander
that he could choose between death and telling who it was that stole the flag.

"I'll have you shot, sir, to-morrow morning if you prevaricate about this thing any longer,"
said Hamilton, with a right deadly strain in his voice. "You told me that you knew every man,
woman and child in Vincennes at sight. I know that you saw that girl take the flag--lying does
not serve your turn. I give you until this evening to tell me who she is; if you fail, you
die at sunrise to-morrow."

In fact, it may be that Hamilton did not really purpose to carry out this blood-thirsty threat;
most probably he relied upon M. Roussillon's imagination to torture him successfully; but the
effect, as time proved, could not be accurately foreseen.

Captain Farnsworth had energy enough for a dozen ordinary men. Before he had been in Vincennes
twelve hours he had seen every nook and corner of its surface. Nor was his activity due altogether
to military ardor, although he never let pass an opportunity to serve the best interests of
his commander; all the while his mind was on the strikingly beautiful girl whose saucy countenance
had so dazzled him from the roof-top of the fort, what time she wrenched away the rebel flag.

"I'll find her, high or low," he thought, "for I never could fail to recognize that face. She's
a trump."

It was not in Alice's nature to hide from the English. They had held the town and fort before
Helm came, and she had not found them troublesome under Abbott. She did not know that M. Roussillon
was a prisoner, the family taking it for granted that he had gone away to avoid the English.
Nor was she aware that Hamilton felt so keenly the disappearance of the flag. What she did
know, and it gladdened her greatly, was that Beverley had been well treated by his captor.
With this in her heart she went about Roussillon place singing merry snatches of Creole songs;
and when at the gate, which still hung lop-sided on account of Beverley's force in shutting
it, she came unexpectedly face to face with Captain Farnsworth, there was no great surprise
on her part.

He lifted his hat and bowed very politely; but a bold smile broke over his somewhat ruddy face.
He spoke in French, but in a drawling tone and with a bad accent:

"How do you do, Mademoiselle; I am right glad to see you again."

Alice drew back a pace or two. She was quick to understand his allusion, and she shrank from
him, fearing that he was going to inquire about the flag.

"Don't be afraid," he laughed. "I am not so dangerous. I never did hurt a girl in all my life.
In fact, I am fond of them when they're nice."

"I am not in the least afraid," she replied, assuming an air of absolute dismissal, "and you
don't look a bit ferocious, Monsieur. You may pass on, if you please."

He flushed and bit his lip, probably to keep back some hasty retort, and thought rapidly for
a moment. She looked straight at him with eyes that stirred and dazzled him. He was handsome
in a coarse way, like a fine young animal, well groomed, well fed, magnetic, forceful; but
his boldness, being of a sort to which she had not been accustomed, disturbed her vaguely and
strangely.

"Suppose that I don't pass on?" he presently ventured, with just a suspicion of insolence in
his attitude, but laughing until he showed teeth of remarkable beauty and whiteness. "Suppose
that I should wish to have a little chat with you, Mademoiselle?"

"I have been told that there are men in the world who think themselves handsome, and clever,
and brilliant, when in fact they are but conceited simpletons," she remarked, rather indifferently,
muffling herself in her fur wrap. "You certainly would be a fairly good hitching-post for our
horses if you never moved." Then she laughed out of the depth of her hood, a perfectly merry
laugh, but not in the least flattering to Captain Farnsworth's vanity. He felt the scorn that
it conveyed.

His face grew redder, while a flash from hers made him wish that he had been more gracious
in his deportment. Here, to his surprise, was not a mere creole girl of the wild frontier.

Her superiority struck him with the force of a captivating revelation, under the light of which
he blinked and winced.

She laid a shapely hand on the broken gate and pushed it open.

"I beg your pardon, Mademoiselle;" his manner softened as he spoke; "I beg your pardon; but
I came to speak to you about the flag--the flag you took away from the fort."

She had been half expecting this; but she was quite unprepared, and in spite of all she could
do showed embarrassment.

"I have come to get the flag; if you will kindly bring it to me, or tell me where it is I--"

She quickly found words to interrupt him with, and at the same time by a great effort pulled
herself together.

"You have come to the wrong place," she flung in. "I assure you that I haven't the flag."

"You took it down, Mademoiselle."

"Oh, did I?"

"With bewitching grace you did, Mademoiselle. I saw and admired. Will you fetch it, please?"

"Indeed I won't."

The finality in her voice belied her face, which beamed without a ray of stubbornness or perversity.
He did not know how to interpret her; but he felt that he had begun wrong. He half regretted
that he had begun at all.

"More depends upon returning that flag than you are probably aware of," he presently said in
a more serious tone. "In fact, the life of one of your townsmen, and a person of some importance
here I believe, will surely be saved by it. You'd better consider, Mademoiselle. You wouldn't
like to cause the death of a man."

She did not fairly grasp the purport of his words; yet the change in his manner, and the fact
that he turned from French to English in making the statement, aroused a sudden feeling of
dread or dark apprehension in her breast. The first distinct thought was of Beverley--that
some deadly danger threatened him.

"Who is it?" she frankly demanded.

"It's the Mayor, the big man of your town, Monsieur Roussillon, I think he calls himself. He's
got himself into a tight place. He'll be shot to-morrow morning if that flag is not produced.
Governor Hamilton has so ordered, and what he orders is done."

"You jest, Monsieur."

"I assure you that I speak the plain truth."

"You will probably catch Monsieur Roussillon before you shoot him." She tossed her head.

"He is already a prisoner in the fort."

Alice turned pale.

"Monsieur, is this true?" Her voice had lost its happy tone. "Are you telling me that to--"

"You can verify it, Mademoiselle, by calling upon the commander at the fort. I am sorry that
you doubt my veracity. If you will go with me I will show you M. Roussillon a tightly bound
prisoner."

Jean had crept out of the gate and was standing just behind Alice with his feet wide apart,
his long chin elevated, his head resting far back between his upthrust shoulders, his hands
in his pockets, his uncanny eyes gazing steadily at Farnsworth. He looked like a deformed frog
ready to jump.

Alice unmistakably saw truth in the Captain's countenance and felt it in his voice. The reality
came to her with unhindered effect. M. Roussillon's life depended upon the return of the flag.
She put her hands together and for a moment covered her eyes with them.

"I will go now, Mademoiselle," said Farnsworth; "but I hope you will be in great haste about
returning the flag."

He stood looking at her. He was profoundly touched and felt that to say more would be too brutal
even for his coarse nature; so he simply lifted his hat and went away.

Jean took hold of Alice's dress as she turned to go back into the house.

"Is he going to take the flag? Can he find it? What does he want with it? What did you do with
the flag, Alice?" he whined, in his peculiar, quavering voice. "Where is it?"

Her skirt dragged him along as she walked.

"Where did you put it, Alice?"

"Father Beret hid it under his floor," she answered, involuntarily, and almost unconsciously.
"I shall have to take it back and give it up."

"No--no--I wouldn't," he quavered, dancing across the veranda as she quickened her pace and
fairly spun him along. "I wouldn't let 'em have it at all."

Alice's mind was working with lightning speed. Her imagination took strong grip on the situation
so briefly and effectively sketched by Captain Farnsworth. Her decision formed itself quickly.

"Stay here, Jean. I am going to the fort. Don't tell Mama Roussillon a thing. Be a good boy."

She was gone before Jean could say a word. She meant to face Hamilton at once and be sure what
danger menaced M. Roussillon. Of course, the flag must be given up if that would save her foster
father any pain; and if his life were in question there could not be too great haste on her part.

She ran directly to the stockade gate and breathlessly informed a sentinel that she must see
Governor Hamilton, into whose presence she was soon led. Captain Farnsworth had preceded her
but a minute or two, and was present when she entered the miserable shed room where the commander
was having another talk with M. Roussillon.

The meeting was a tableau which would have been comical but for the pressure of its tragic
possibilities. Hamilton, stern and sententious, stood frowning upon M. Roussillon, who sat
upon the ground, his feet and hands tightly bound, a colossal statue of injured innocence.

Alice, as soon as she saw M. Roussillon, uttered a cry of sympathetic endearment and flung
herself toward him with open arms. She could not reach around his great shoulders; but she
did her best to include the whole bulk.

"Papa! Papa Roussillon!" she chirruped between the kisses that she showered upon his weather-beaten
face.

Hamilton and Farnsworth regarded the scene with curious and surprised interest. M. Roussillon
began speaking rapidly; but being a Frenchman he could not get on well with his tongue while
his hands were tied. He could shrug his shoulders; that helped him some.

"I am to be shot, MA PETITE," he pathetically growled in his deep bass voice; "shot like a
dog at sunrise to-morrow."

Alice kissed M. Roussillon's rough cheek once more and sprang to her feet facing Hamilton.

"You are not such a fiend and brute as to kill Papa Roussillon," she cried. "Why do you want
to injure my poor, good papa?"

"I believe you are the young lady that stole the flag?" Hamilton remarked, smiling contemptuously.

She looked at him with a swift flash of indignation as he uttered these words.

"I am not a thief. I could not steal what was my own. I helped to make that flag. It was named
after me. I took it because it was mine. You understand me, Monsieur."

"Tell where it is and your father's life will be spared."

She glanced at M. Roussillon.

"No, Alice," said he, with a pathetically futile effort to make a fine gesture, "don't do it.
I am brave enough to die. You would not have me act the coward."

No onlooker would have even remotely suspected the fact that M. Roussillon had chanced to overhear
a conversation between Hamilton and Farnsworth, in which Hamilton stated that he really did
not intend to hurt M. Roussillon in any event; he merely purposed to humiliate the "big wind-bag!"

"Ah, no; let me die bravely for honor's sake--I fear death far less than dishonor! They can
shoot me, my little one, but they cannot break my proud spirit." He tried to strike his breast
over his heart.

"Perhaps it would be just as well to let him be shot," said Hamilton gruffly, and with dry
indifference. "I don't fancy that he's of much value to the community at best. He'll make a
good target for a squad, and we need an example."

"Do you mean it?--you ugly English brute--would you murder him?" she stamped her foot.

"Not if I get that flag between now and sundown. Otherwise I shall certainly have him shot.
It is all in your hands, Mademoiselle. You can tell me where the flag is." Hamilton smiled
again with exquisite cruelty.

Farnsworth stood by gazing upon Alice in open admiration. Her presence had power in it, to
which he was very susceptible.

"You look like a low, dishonorable, soulless tyrant," she said to Hamilton, "and if you get
my flag, how shall I know that you will keep your promise and let Papa Roussillon go free?"

"I am sorry to say that you will have to trust me, unless you'll take Captain Farnsworth for
security. The Captain is a gentleman, I assure you. Will you stand good for my veracity and
sincerity, Captain Farnsworth?"

The young man smiled and bowed.

Alice felt the irony; and her perfectly frank nature preferred to trust rather than distrust
the sincerity of others. She looked at Farnsworth, who smiled encouragingly.

"The flag is under Father Beret's floor," she said.

"Under the church floor?"

"No, under the floor of his house."

"Where is his house?"

She gave full directions how to reach it.

"Untie the prisoner," Hamilton ordered, and it was quickly done. "Monsieur Roussillon, I congratulate
you upon your narrow escape. Go to the priest's house, Monsieur, and bring me that flag. It
would be well, I assure you, not to be very long about it. Captain Farnsworth, you will send
a guard with Monsieur Roussillon, a guard of honor, fitting his official dignity, a Corporal
and two men. The honorable Mayor of this important city should not go alone upon so important
an errand. He must have his attendants."

"Permit me to go myself and get it," said Alice, "I can do it quickly. May I, please, Monsieur?"

Hamilton looked sharply at her.

"Why, certainly, Mademoiselle, certainly. Captain Farnsworth, you will escort the young lady."

"It is not necessary, Monsieur."

"Oh, yes, it is necessary, my dear young lady, very necessary; so let's not have further words.
I'll try to entertain his honor, the Mayor, while you go and get the flag. I feel sure, Mademoiselle,
that you'll return with it in a few minutes. But you must not go alone."

Alice set forth immediately, and Farnsworth, try as hard as he would, could never reach her
side, so swift was her gait.

When they arrived at Father Beret's cabin, she turned and said with imperious severity:

"Don't you come in; you stay out here: I'll get it in a minute."

Farnsworth obeyed her command.

The door was wide open, but Father Beret was not inside; he had gone to see a sick child in
the outskirts of the village. Alice looked about and hesitated. She knew the very puncheon
that covered the flag; but she shrank from lifting it. There seemed nothing else to do, however;
so, after some trouble with herself, she knelt upon the floor and turned the heavy slab over
with a great thump. The flag did not appear. She peeped under the other puncheons. It was not
there. The only thing visible was a little ball of paper fragments not larger than an egg.

Farnsworth heard her utter a low cry of surprise or dismay, and was on the point of going in
when Father Beret, coming around the corner of the cabin, confronted him. The meeting was so
sudden and unexpected that both men recoiled slightly, and then, with a mutual stare, saluted.

"I came with a young lady to get the flag," said Farnsworth. "She is inside. I hope there is
no serious intrusion. She says the flag is hidden under your floor."

Father Beret said nothing, but frowning as if much annoyed, stepped through the doorway to
Alice's side, and stooping where she knelt, laid a hand on her shoulder as she glanced up and
recognized him.

"What are you doing, my child?"

"Oh, Father, where is the flag?" It was all that she could say. "Where is the flag?"

"Why, isn't it there?"

"No, you see it isn't there! Where is it?"

The priest stood as if dumfounded, gazing into the vacant space uncovered by the puncheon.

"Is it gone? Has some one taken it away?"

They turned up all the floor to no avail. La banniere d'Alice Roussillon had disappeared, and
Captain Farnsworth went forthwith to report the fact to his commander. When he reached the
shed at the angle of the fort he found Governor Hamilton sitting stupid and dazed on the ground.
One jaw was inflamed and swollen and an eye was half closed and bloodshot. He turned his head
with a painful, irregular motion and his chin sagged.

Farnsworth sprang to him and lifted him to his feet; but he could scarcely stand. He licked
his lips clumsily.

"What is the matter? What hurt you?"

The Governor rubbed his forehead trying to recollect.

"He struck me," he presently said with difficulty. "He hit me with his fist Where--where is he?"

"Who?"

"That big French idiot--that Roussillon--go after him, take him, shoot him--quick! I have been
stunned; I don't know how long he's been gone. Give the alarm--do something!"

Hamilton, as he gathered his wits together, began to foam with rage, and his passion gave his
bruised and swollen face a terrible look.

The story was short, and may be quickly told. M. Roussillon had taken advantage of the first
moment when he and Hamilton were left alone. One herculean buffet, a swinging smash of his
enormous fist on the point of the Governors jaw, and then he walked out of the fort unchallenged,
doubtless on account of his lordly and masterful air.

"Ziff!" he exclaimed, shaking himself and lifting his shoulders, when he had passed beyond
hearing of the sentinel at the gate, "ziff! I can punch a good stiff stroke yet, Monsieur le
Gouverneur. Ah, ziff!" and he blew like a porpoise.

Every effort was promptly made to recapture M. Roussillon; but his disappearance was absolute;
even the reward offered for his scalp by Hamilton only gave the Indians great trouble--they
could not find the man.

Such a beginning of his administration of affairs at Vincennes did not put Hamilton into a
good humor. He was overbearing and irascible at best, and under the irritation of small but
exceedingly unpleasant experiences he made life well-nigh unendurable to those upon whom his
dislike chanced to fall. Beverley quickly felt that it was going to be very difficult for him
and Hamilton to get along agreeably. With Helm it was quite different; smoking, drinking, playing
cards, telling good stories--in a word, rude and not unfrequently boisterous conviviality drew
him and the commandant together.

Under Captain Farnsworth's immediate supervision the fort was soon in excellent repair and
a large blockhouse and comfortable quarters for the men were built. Every day added to the
strength of the works and to the importance of the post as a strategic position for the advance
guard of the British army.

Hamilton was ambitious to prove himself conspicuously valuable to his country. He was dreaming
vast dreams and laying large plans. The Indians were soon anxious to gain his favor; and to
bind them securely to him he offered liberal pay in rum and firearms, blankets, trinkets and
ammunition for the scalps of rebels. He kept this as secret as possible from his prisoners;
but Beverley soon suspected that a "traffic in hair," as the terrible business had been named,
was going on. Savages came in from far away with scalps yet scarcely dry dangling at their
belts. It made the young Virginian's blood chill in his heart, and he regretted that he had
given Hamilton his parole of honor not to attempt to escape.

Among the Indians occasionally reporting to Hamilton with their ghastly but valuable trophies
was Long-Hair, who slipped into the fort and out again rather warily, not having much confidence
in those Frenchmen who had once upon a time given him a memorable run for his life.

Winter shut down, not cold, but damp, changeable, raw. The work on the fort was nearly completed,
and Rene de Ronville would have soon been relieved of his servile and exasperating employment
under the Irish Corporal; but just at the point of time when only a few days' work remained
for him, he became furious, on account of an insulting remark, and struck the Corporal over
the head with a handspike. This happened in a wood some miles from town, where he was loading
logs upon a sled. There chanced to be no third person present when the deed was done, and some
hours passed before they found the officer quite cold and stiff beside the sled. His head was
crushed to a pulp.

Hamilton, now thoroughly exasperated, began to look upon the French inhabitants of Vincennes
as all like M. Roussillon and Rene, but waiting for an opportunity to strike him unawares.
He increased his military vigilance, ordered the town patrolled day and night, and forbade
public gatherings of the citizens, while at the same time he forced them to furnish him a large
amount of provisions.

When little Adrienne Bourcier heard of Renews terrible act, followed by his successful escape
to the woods, and of the tempting reward offered by Hamilton for his scalp, she ran to Roussillon
place well-nigh crazed with excitement. She had always depended upon Alice for advice, encouragement
and comfort in her troubles; but in the present case there was not much that her friend could
do to cheer her. With M. Roussillon and Rene both fugitives, tracked by wily savages, a price
on their heads, while every day added new dangers to the French inhabitants of Vincennes, no
rosy view could possibly be taken of the situation. Alice did her best, however, to strengthen
her little friend's faith in a happy outcome. She quoted what she considered unimpeachable
authority to support her optimistic argument.

"Lieutenant Beverley says that the Americans will be sure to drive Hamilton out of Vincennes,
or capture him. Probably they are not so very far away now, and Rene may join them and come
back to help punish these brutal Englishmen. Don't you wish he would, Adrienne? Wouldn't it
be romantic?"

"He's armed, I know that," said Adrienne, brightening a little, "and he's brave, Alice, brave
as can be. He came right back into town the other night and got his gun and pistols. He was
at our house, too, and, oh!--"

She burst out crying again. "O Alice! It breaks my heart to think that the Indians will kill
him. Do you think they will kill him, Alice?"

"He'll come nearer killing them," said Alice confidently, with her strong, warm arms around
the tiny lass; "he's a good woodsman, a fine shot--he's not so easy to kill, my dear. If he
and Papa Roussillon should get together by chance they would be a match for all the Indians
in the country. Anyway, I feel that it's much better for them to take their chances in the
woods than to be in the hands of Governor Hamilton. If I were a man I'd do just as Papa Roussillon
and Rene did; I'd break the bigoted head of every Englishman that mistreated me, I'll do it,
girl as I am, if they annoy me, see if I don't!"

She was thinking of Captain Farnsworth, who had been from the first untiring in his efforts
to gain something more than a passing acquaintance. As yet he had not made himself unbearable;
but Alice's fine intuition led her to the conclusion that she must guard against him from the
outset.

Adrienne's simple heart could not grasp the romantic criterion with which Alice was wont to
measure action. Her mind was single, impulsive, narrow and direct in all its movements. She
loved, hated, desired, caressed, repulsed, not for any assignable reason more solid or more
luminous than "because." She adored Rene and wanted him near her. He was a hero in her imagination,
no matter what he did. Little difference was it to her whether he hauled logs for the English
or smoked his pipe in idleness by the winter fire--what could it matter which flag he served
under, so that he was true to her? Or whom he served if she could always have him coming to
see her and calling her his little pet? He might crush an Irish Corporal's head every day,
if he would but stroke her hair and say: "My sweet little one."

"Why couldn't he be quiet and do as your man, Lieutenant Beverley, did?" she cried in a sudden
change of mood, the tears streaming down her cheeks. "Lieutenant Beverley surrendered and took
the consequences. He didn't kill somebody and run off to be hunted like a bear. No wonder you're
happy, Alice; I'd be happy, too, if Rene were here and came to spend half of every day with
me. I--"

"Why, what a silly girl you are!" Alice exclaimed, her face reddening prettily. "How foolishly
you prattle! I'm sure I don't trouble myself about Lieutenant Beverley--what put such absurd
nonsense into your head, Adrienne?"

"Because, that's what, and you know it's so, too. You love him just as much as I love Rene,
and that's just all the love in the world, and you needn't deny it, Alice Roussillon!"

Alice laughed and hugged the wee, brown-faced mite of a girl until she almost smothered her.

It was growing dusk when Adrienne left Roussillon place to go home. The wind cut icily across
the commons and moaned as it whirled around the cabins and cattle-sheds. She ran briskly, muffled
in a wrap, partly through fear and partly to keep warm, and had gone two-thirds of her way
when she was brought to an abrupt stop by the arms of a man. She screamed sharply, and Father
Beret, who was coming out of a cabin not far away, heard and knew the voice.

"Ho-ho, my little lady!" cried Adrienne's captor in a breezy, jocund tone, "you wouldn't run
over a fellow, would you?" The words were French, but the voice was that of Captain Farnsworth,
who laughed while he spoke. "You jump like a rabbit, my darling! Why, what a lively little
chick of a girl it is!"

Adrienne screamed and struggled recklessly.

"Now don't rouse up the town," coaxed the Captain. He was just drunk enough to be quite a fool,
yet sufficiently sober to imagine himself the most proper person in the world. "I don't mean
you any harm, Mademoiselle; I'll just see you safe home, you know; 'scort you to your residence;
come on, now--that's a good girl."

Father Beret hurried to the spot, and when in the deepening gloom he saw Adrienne flinging
herself violently this way and that, helplessly trying to escape from the clasp of a man, he
did to perfection what a priest is supposed to be the least fitted to do. Indeed, considering
his age and leaving his vocation out of the reckoning, his performance was amazing. It is not
certain that the blow dealt upon Governor Hamilton's jaw by M. Roussillon was a stiffer one
than that sent straight from the priest's shoulder right into the short ribs of Captain Farnsworth,
who there-upon released a mighty grunt and doubled himself up.

Adrienne recognized her assailant at the first and used his name freely during the struggle.
When Father Beret appeared she cried out to him--

"Oh, Father--Father Beret! help me! help me!"

When Farnsworth recovered from the breath-expelling shock of the jab in his side and got himself
once more in a vertical position, both girl and priest were gone. He looked this way and that,
rapidly becoming sober, and beginning to wonder how the thing could have happened so easily.
His ribs felt as if they had been hit with a heavy hammer.

"By Jove!" he muttered all to himself, "the old prayer-singing heathen! By Jove!" And with
this very brilliant and relevant observation he rubbed his sore side and went his way to the fort.

CHAPTER XI

A SWORD AND A HORSE PISTOL

We hear much about the "days that tried men's souls"; but what about the souls of women in
those same days? Sitting in the liberal geniality of the nineteenth century's sunset glow,
we insist upon having our grumble at the times and the manners of our generation; but if we
had to exchange places, periods and experiences with the people who lived in America through
the last quarter of the eighteenth century, there would be good ground for despairing ululations.
And if our men could not bear it, if it would try their souls too poignantly, let us imagine
the effect upon our women. No, let us not imagine it; but rather let us give full credit to
the heroic souls of the mothers and the maidens who did actually bear up in the center of that
terrible struggle and unflinchingly help win for us not only freedom, but the vast empire which
at this moment is at once the master of the world and the model toward which all the nations
of the earth are slowly but surely tending.

If Alice was an extraordinary girl, she was not aware of it; nor had she ever understood that
her life was being shaped by extraordinary conditions. Of course it could not but be plain
to her that she knew more and felt more than the girls of her narrow acquaintance; that her
accomplishments were greater; that she nursed splendid dreams of which they could have no proper
comprehension, but until now she had never even dimly realized that she was probably capable
of being something more than a mere creole lass, the foster daughter of Gaspard Roussillon,
trader in pelts and furs. Even her most romantic visions had never taken the form of personal
desire, or ambition in its most nebulous stage; they had simply pleased her fresh and natural
fancy and served to gild the hardness and crudeness of her life,--that was all.

Her experiences had been almost too terrible for belief, viewed at our distance from them;
she had passed through scenes of incredible horror and suffering, but her nature had not been
chilled, stunted or hardened. In body and in temper her development had been sound and beautiful.
It was even thus that our great-grandmothers triumphed over adversity, hardship, indescribable
danger. We cannot say that the strong, lithe, happy-hearted Alice of old Vincennes was the
only one of her kind. Few of us who have inherited the faded portraits of our revolutionary
forbears can doubt that beauty, wit and great lovableness flourished in the cabins of pioneers
all the way from the Edisto to the Licking, from the Connecticut to the Wabash.

Beverley's advent could not fail to mean a great deal in the life of a girl like Alice; a new
era, as it were, would naturally begin for her the moment that his personal influence touched
her imagination; but it is well not to measure her too strictly by the standard of our present
taste and the specialized forms of our social and moral code. She was a true child of the wilderness,
a girl who grew, as the wild prairie rose grew, not on account of innumerable exigencies, accidents
and hardships, but in spite of them. She had blushed unseen, and had wasted divine sweets upon
a more than desert air. But when Beverley came near her, at first carelessly droning his masculine
monotonies, as the wandering bee to the lonely and lovely rose, and presently striking her
soul as with the wings of Love, there fell a change into her heart of hearts, and lo! her haunting
and elusive dreams began to condense and take on forms that startled her with their wonderful
splendor and beauty. These she saw all the time, sleeping or waking; they made bright summer
of the frozen stream and snapping gale, the snowdrifts and the sleet. In her brave young heart,
swelled the ineffable song--the music never yet caught by syrinx or flute or violin, the words
no tongue can speak.

Ah, here may be the secret of that vigorous, brave, sweet life of our pioneer maids, wives,
and mothers. It was love that gave those tender hearts the iron strength and heroic persistence
at which the world must forever wonder. And do we appreciate those women? Let the Old World
boast its crowned kings, its mailed knights, its ladies of the court and castle; but we of
the New World, we of the powerful West, let us brim our cups with the wine of undying devotion,
and drink to the memory of the Women of the Revolution,--to the humble but good and marvelously
brave and faithful women like those of old Vincennes.

But if Alice was being radically influenced by Beverley, he in turn found a new light suffusing
his nature, and he was not unaware that it came out of her eyes, her face, her smiles, her
voice, her soul. It was the old, well-known, inexplicable, mutual magnetism, which from the
first has been the same on the highest mountain-top and in the lowest valley. The queen and
the milkmaid, the king and the hind may come together only to find the king walking off with
the lowly beauty and her fragrant pail, while away stalks the lusty rustic, to be lord and
master of the queen. Love is love, and it thrives in all climes, under all conditions.

There is an inevitable and curious protest that comes up unbidden between lovers; it takes
many forms in accordance with particular circumstances. It is the demand for equality and perfection.
Love itself is without degrees--it is perfect--but when shall it see the perfect object? It
does see it, and it does not see it, in every beloved being. Beverley found his mind turning,
as on a pivot, round and round upon the thought that Alice might be impossible to him. The
mystery of her life seemed to force her below the line of his aristocratic vision, so that
he could not fairly consider her, and yet with all his heart he loved her. Alice, on the other
hand, had her bookish ideal to reckon with, despite the fact that she daily dashed it contemptuously
down. She was different from Adrienne Bourcier, who bewailed the absence of her un-tamable
lover; she wished that Beverley had not, as she somehow viewed it, weakly surrendered to Hamilton.
His apparently complacent acceptance of idle captivity did not comport with her dream of knighthood
and heroism. She had been all the time half expecting him to do something that would stamp
him a hero.

Counter protests of this sort are never sufficiently vigorous to take a fall out of Love; they
merely serve to worry his temper by lightly hindering his feet. And it is surprising how Love
does delight himself with being entangled.

Both Beverley and Alice day by day felt the cord tightening which drew their hearts together--each
acknowledged it secretly, but strove not to evince it openly. Meantime both were as happy and
as restlessly dissatisfied as love and uncertainty could make them.

Amid the activities in which Hamilton was engaged--his dealings with the Indians and the work
of reconstructing the fort--he found time to worry his temper about the purloined flag. Like
every other man in the world, he was superstitious, and it had come into his head that to insure
himself and his plans against disaster, he must have the banner of his captives as a badge
of his victory. It was a small matter; but it magnified itself as he dwelt upon it. He suspected
that Alice had deceived him. He sharply questioned Father Beret, only to be half convinced
that the good priest told the truth when he said that he knew nothing whatever on the subject
beyond the fact that the banner had mysteriously disappeared from under his floor.

Captain Farnsworth scarcely sympathized with his chief about the flag, but he was nothing if
not anxious to gain Hamilton's highest confidence. His military zeal knew no bounds, and he
never let pass even the slightest opportunity to show it. Hence his persistent search for a
clue to the missing banner. He was no respecter of persons. He frankly suspected both Alice
and Father Beret of lying. He would himself have lied under the existing circumstances, and
he considered himself as truthful and trustworthy as priest or maiden.

"I'll get that flag for you," he said to Hamilton, "if I have to put every man, woman and child
in this town on the rack. It lies, I think, between Miss Roussillon and the priest, although
both insistently deny it. I've thought it over in every way, and I can't see how they can both
be ignorant of where it is, or at least who got it."

Hamilton, since being treated to that wonderful blow on the jaw, was apt to fall into a spasm
of anger whenever the name Roussillon was spoken in his hearing. Involuntarily he would put
his hand to his cheek, and grimace reminiscently.

"If it's that girl, make her tell," he savagely commanded. "Let's have no trifling about it.
If it's the priest, then make him tell, or tie him up by the thumbs. Get that flag, or show
some good reason for your failure. I'm not going to be baffled."

The Captain's adventure with Father Beret came just in time to make it count against that courageous
and bellicose missionary in more ways than one. Farnsworth did not tell Hamilton or any other
person about what the priest had done to him, but nursed his sore ribs and his wrath, waiting
patiently for the revenge that he meant soon to take.

Alice heard from Adrienne the story of Farnsworth's conduct and his humiliating discomfiture
at the hands of Father Beret. She was both indignant and delighted, sympathizing with Adrienne
and glorying in the priest's vigorous pugilistic achievement.

"Well," she remarked, with one of her infectious trills of laughter, "so far the French have
the best of it, anyway! Papa Roussillon knocked the Governor's cheek nearly off, then Rene
cracked the Irish Corporal's head, and now Father Beret has taught Captain Farnsworth a lesson
in fisticuffs that he'll not soon forget! If the good work can only go on a little longer we
shall see every English soldier in Vincennes wearing the mark of a Frenchman's blow." Then
her mood suddenly changed from smiling lightness to almost fierce gravity, and she added:

"Adrienne Bourcier, if Captain Farnsworth ever offers to treat me as he did you, mark my words,
I'll kill him--kill him, indeed I will! You ought to see me!"

"But he won't dare touch you," said Adrienne, looking at her friend with round, admiring eyes.
"He knows very well that you are not little and timid like me. He'd be afraid of you."

"I wish he would try it. How I would love to shoot him into pieces, the hateful wretch! I wish
he would."

The French inhabitants all, or nearly all, felt as Alice did; but at present they were helpless
and dared not say or do anything against the English. Nor was this feeling confined to the
Creoles of Vincennes; it had spread to most of the points where trading posts existed. Hamilton
found this out too late to mend some of his mistakes; but he set himself on the alert and organized
scouting bodies of Indians under white officers to keep him informed as to the American movements
in Kentucky and along the Ohio. One of these bands brought in as captive Colonel Francis Vigo,
of St. Louis, a Spaniard by birth, an American by adoption, a patriot to the core, who had
large influence over both Indians and Creoles in the Illinois country.

Colonel Vigo was not long held a prisoner. Hamilton dared not exasperate the Creoles beyond
their endurance, for he knew that the savages would closely sympathize with their friends of
long standing, and this might lead to revolt and coalition against him,--a very dangerous possibility.
Indeed, at least one of the great Indian chieftains had already frankly informed him that he
and his tribe were loyal to the Americans. Here was a dilemma requiring consummate diplomacy.
Hamilton saw it, but he was not of a diplomatic temper or character. With the Indians he used
a demoralizing system of bribery, while toward the whites he was too often gruff, imperious,
repellant. Helm understood the whole situation and was quick to take advantage of it. His personal
relations with Hamilton were easy and familiar, so that he did not hesitate to give advice
upon all occasions. Here his jovial disposition helped him.

"You'd better let Vigo return to St. Louis," he said. They had a bowl of something hot steaming
between them. "I know him. He's harmless if you don't rub him too hard the wrong way. He'll
go back, if you treat him well, and tell Clark how strong you are here and how foolish it would
be to think of attacking you. Clark has but a handful of men, poorly supplied and tired with
long, hard marches. If you'll think a moment you cannot fail to understand that you'd better
be friends with this man Vigo. He and Father Gibault and this old priest here, Beret, carry
these Frenchmen in their pockets. I'm not on your side, understand, I'm an American, and I'd
blow the whole of you to kingdom come in a minute, if I could; but common sense is common sense
all the same. There's no good to you and no harm to Clark in mistreating, or even holding this
prisoner. What harm can he do you by going back to Clark and telling him the whole truth? Clark
knew everything long before Vigo reached here. Old Jazon, my best scout, left here the day
you took possession, and you may bet he got to Kaskaskia in short order. He never fails. But
he'll tell Clark to stay where he is, and Vigo can do no more."

What effect Helm's bold and apparently artless talk had upon Hamilton's mind is not recorded;
but the meager historical facts at command show that Vigo was released and permitted to return
under promise that he would give no information to the enemy ON HIS WAY to Kaskaskia.

Doubtless this bit of careless diplomacy on the Governor's part did have a somewhat soothing
effect upon a large class of Frenchmen at Vincennes; but Farnsworth quickly neutralized it
to a serious extent by a foolish act while slightly under the influence of liquor.

He met Father Beret near Roussillon place, and feeling his ribs squirm at sight of the priest,
he accosted him insolently, demanding information as to the whereabouts of the missing flag.

A priest may be good and true--Father Beret certainly was--and yet have the strongest characteristics
of a worldly man. This thing of being bullied day after day, as had recently been the rule,
generated nothing to aid in removing a refractory desire from the priest's heart--the worldly
desire to repeat with great increment of force the punch against Famsworth's lower ribs.

"I order you, sir, to produce that rebel flag," said Farnsworth. "You will obey forthwith or
take the consequences. I am no longer in the humor to be trifled with. Do you understand?"

"I might be forced to obey you, if I could," said the priest, drawing his robe about him; "but,
as I have often told you, my son, I do not know where the flag is or who took it. I do not
even suspect any person of taking it. All that I know about it is the simple fact that it is gone."

Father Beret's manner and voice were very mild, but there must have been a hint of sturdy defiance
somewhere in them. At all events Farnsworth was exasperated and fell into a white rage. Perhaps
it was the liquor he had been drinking that made him suddenly desperate.

"You canting old fool!" he cried, "don't lie to me any longer; I won't have it. Don't stand
there grinning at me. Get that flag, or I'll make you."

"What is impossible, my son, is possible to God alone. Apud homines hoc impossible est, apud
Deum autem omnia possibilia sunt."

"None of your Jesuit Latin or logic to me--I am not here to argue, but to command. Get that
flag. Be in a hurry about it, sir."

He whipped out his sword, and in his half drunken eyes there gathered the dull film of murderous
passion.

"Put up your weapon, Captain; you will not attack an unarmed priest. You are a soldier, and
will not dare strike an old, defenceless man."

"But I will strike a black-robed and black-hearted French rebel. Get that flag, you grinning fool!"

The two men stood facing each other. Father Beret's eyes did not stir from their direct, fearless
gaze. What Farnsworth had called a grin was a peculiar smile, not of merriment, a grayish flicker
and a slight backward wrinkling of the cheeks. The old man's arms were loosely crossed upon
his sturdy breast.

"Strike if you must," he said very gently, very firmly. "I never yet have seen the man that
could make me afraid." His speech was slightly sing-song in tone, as it would have been during
a prayer or a blessing.

"Get the flag then!" raged Farnsworth, in whose veins the heat of liquor was aided by an unreasoning
choler.

"I cannot," said Father Beret.

"Then take the consequences!"

Farnsworth lifted his sword, not to thrust, but to strike with its flat side, and down it flashed
with a noisy whack. Father Beret flung out an arm and deftly turned the blow aside. It was
done so easily that Farnsworth sprang back glaring and surprised.

"You old fool!" he cried, leveling his weapon for a direct lunge. "You devilish hypocrite!"

It was then that Father Beret turned deadly pale and swiftly crossed himself. His face looked
as if he saw something startling just beyond his adversary. Possibly this sudden change of
expression caused Farnsworth to hesitate for a mere point of time. Then there was the swish
of a woman's skirts; a light step pattered on the frozen ground, and Alice sprang between the
men, facing Farnsworth. As she did this something small and yellow,--the locket at her throat,--fell
and rolled under her feet. Nobody saw it.

In her hand she held an immense horse pistol, which she leveled in the Captain's face, its
flaring, bugle-shaped muzzle gaping not a yard from his nose. The heavy tube was as steady
as if in a vise.

"Drop that sword!"

That was all she said; but her finger was pressing the trigger, and the flint in the backward
slanting hammer was ready to click against the steel. The leaden slugs were on the point of
leaping forth.

"Drop that sword!"

The repetition seemed to close the opportunity for delay.

Farnsworth was on his guard in a twinkling. He set his jaw and uttered an ugly oath; then quick
as lightning he struck sidewise at the pistol with his blade. It was a move which might have
taken a less alert person than Alice unawares; but her training in sword-play was ready in
her wrist and hand. An involuntary turn, the slightest imaginable, set the heavy barrel of
her weapon strongly against the blow, partly stopping it, and then the gaping muzzle spat its
load of balls and slugs with a bellow that awoke the drowsy old village.

Farnsworth staggered backward, letting fall his sword. There was a rent in the clothing of
his left shoulder. He reeled; the blood spun out; but he did not fall, although he grew white.

Alice stood gazing at him with a look on her face he would never forget. It was a look that
changed by wonderful swift gradations from terrible hate to something like sweet pity. The
instant she saw him hurt and bleeding, his countenance relaxing and pale, her heart failed
her. She took a step toward him, her hand opened, and with a thud the heavy old pistol fell
upon the ground beside her.

Father Beret sprang nimbly to sustain Farnsworth, snatching up the pistol as he passed around
Alice.

"You are hurt, my son," he gently said, "let me help you." He passed his arm firmly under that
of Farnsworth, seeing that the Captain was unsteady on his feet.

"Lean upon me. Come with me, Alice, my child, I will take him into the house."

Alice picked up the Captain's sword and led the way.

It was all done so quickly that Farnsworth, in his half dazed condition, scarcely realized
what was going on until he found himself on a couch in the Roussillon home, his wound (a jagged
furrow plowed out by slugs that the sword's blade had first intercepted) neatly dressed and
bandaged, while Alice and the priest hovered over him busy with their careful ministrations.

Hamilton and Helm were, as usual, playing cards at the former's quarters when a guard announced
that Mademoiselle Roussillon wished an audience with the Governor.

"Bring the girl in," said Hamilton, throwing down his cards and scowling darkly.

"Now you'd better be wise as a serpent and gentle as a dove," remarked Helm. "There is something
up, and that gun-shot we heard awhile ago may have a good deal to do with it. At any rate,
you'll find kindness your best card to play with Alice Roussillon just at the present stage
of the game."

Of course they knew nothing of what had happened to Farnsworth; but they had been discussing
the strained relations between the garrison and the French inhabitants when the roar of Alice's
big-mouthed pistol startled them. Helm was slyly beating about to try to make Hamilton lose
sight of the danger from Clark's direction. To do this he artfully magnified the insidious
work that might be done by the French and their Indian friends should they be driven to desperation
by oppressive or exasperating action on the part of the English.

Hamilton felt the dangerous uncertainty upon which the situation rested; but, like many another
vigorously self-reliant man, he could not subordinate his passions to the dictates of policy.
When Alice was conducted into his presence he instantly swelled with anger. It was her father
who had struck him and escaped, it was she who had carried off the rebel flag at the moment
of victory.

"Well, Miss, to what do I owe the honor of this visit?" he demanded with a supercilious air,
bending a card between his thumb and finger on the rude table.

She stood before him tall and straight, well bundled in furs. She was not pale; her blood was
too rich and brilliant for that; but despite a half-smile and the inextinguishable dimples,
there was a touch of something appealingly pathetic in the lines of her mouth. She did not
waver or hesitate, however, but spoke promptly and distinctly.

"I have come, Monsieur, to tell you that I have hurt Captain Farnsworth. He was about to kill
Father Beret, and I shot him. He is in our house and well cared for. I don't think his wound
is bad. And--" here she hesitated at last and let her gaze fall,--"so here I am." Then she
lifted her eyes again and made an inimitable French gesture with her shoulders and arms. "You
will do as you please, Monsieur, I am at your mercy."

Hamilton was astounded. Helm sat staring phlegmatically. Meantime Beverley entered the room
and stopped hat in hand behind Alice. He was flushed and evidently excited; in fact, he had
heard of the trouble with Farnsworth, and seeing Alice enter the floor of Hamilton's quarters
he followed her in, his heart stirred by no slight emotion. He met the Governor's glare and
parried it with one of equal haughtiness. The veins on his forehead swelled and turned dark.
He was in a mood to do whatever desperate act should suggest itself.

When Hamilton fairly comprehended the message so graphically presented by Alice, he rose from
his seat by the fire.

"What's this you tell me?" he blurted. "You say you've shot Captain Farnsworth?"

"Oui, Monsieur."

He stared a moment, then his features beamed with hate.

"And I'll have you shot for it, Miss, as sure as you stand there in your silly impudence ogling
me so brazenly!"

He leaned toward her as he spoke and sent with the words a shock of coarse, passionate energy
from which she recoiled as if expecting a blow to follow it.

An irresistible impulse swept Beverley to Alice's side, and his attitude was that of a protector.
Helm sprang up.

A Lieutenant came in and respectfully, but with evident over-haste, reported that Captain Farnsworth
had been shot and was at Roussillon place in care of the surgeon.

"Take this girl into custody. Confine her and put a strong guard over her."

In giving the order Hamilton jerked his thumb contemptuously toward Alice, and at the same
time gave Beverley a look of supreme defiance and hatred. When Helm began to speak he turned
fiercely upon him and stopped him with:

"None of your advice, sir. I have had all I want of it. Keep your place or I'll make you."

Then to Beverley:

"Retire, sir. When I wish to see you I'll send for you. At present you are not needed here."

The English Lieutenant saluted his commander, bowed respectfully to Alice and said:

"Come with me, Miss, please."

Helm and Beverley exchanged a look of helpless and enquiring rage. It was as if they had said:
"What can we do? Must we bear it?" Certainly they could do nothing. Any interference on their
part would be sure to increase Alice's danger, and at the same time add to the weight of their
own humiliation.

Alice silently followed the officer out of the room. She did not even glance toward Beverley,
who moved as if to interfere and was promptly motioned back by the guard. His better judgement
returning held him from a rash and futile act, until Hamilton spoke again, saying loudly as
Alice passed through the door:

"I'll see who's master of this town if I have to shoot every French hoyden in it!"

"Women and children may well fear you, Colonel Hamilton," said Beverley. "That young lady is
your superior."

"You say that to me, sir!"

"It is the best I could possibly say of you."

"I will send you along with the wench if you do not guard your language. A prisoner on parole
has no license to be a blackguard."

"I return you my parole, sir, I shall no longer regard it as binding," said Beverley, by a
great effort, holding back a blow; "I will not keep faith with a scoundrel who does not know
how to be decent in the presence of a young girl. You had better have me arrested and confined.
I will escape at the first opportunity and bring a force here to reckon with you for your villainy.
And if you dare hurt Alice Roussillon I will have you hanged like a dog!"

Hamilton looked at him scornfully, smiling as one who feels safe in his authority and means
to have his own way with his victim. Naturally he regarded Beverley's words as the merest vaporings
of a helpless and exasperated young man. He saw very clearly that love was having a hand in
the affair, and he chuckled inwardly, thinking what a fool Beverley was.

"I thought I ordered you to leave this room," he said with an air and tone of lofty superiority,
"and I certainly mean to be obeyed. Go, sir, and if you attempt to escape, or in any way break
your parole, I'll have you shot."

"I have already broken it. From this moment I shall not regard it. You have heard my statement.
I shall not repeat it. Govern yourself accordingly."

With these words Beverley turned and strode out of the house, quite beside himself, his whole
frame quivering.

Hamilton laughed derisively, then looked at Helm and said:

"Helm, I like you; I don't wish to be unkind to you; but positively you must quit breaking
in upon my affairs with your ready-made advice. I've given you and Lieutenant Beverley too
much latitude, perhaps. If that young fool don't look sharp he'll get himself into a beastly
lot of trouble. You'd better give him a talk. He's in a way to need it just now."

"I think so myself," said Helm, glad to get back upon fair footing with the irascible Governor.
"I'll wait until he cools off somewhat, and then I can manage him. Leave him to me."

"Well, come walk with me to see what has really happened to Farnsworth. He's probably not much
hurt, and deserves what he's got. That girl has turned his head. I think I understand the whole
affair. A little love, a little wine, some foolishness, and the wench shot him."

Helm genially assented; but they were delayed for some time by an officer who came in to consult
with Hamilton on some pressing Indian affairs. When they reached Roussillon place they met
Beverley coming out; but he did not look at them. He was scarcely aware of them. A little way
outside the gate, on going in, he had picked up Alice's locket and broken chain, which he mechanically
put into his pocket. It was all like a dream to him, and yet he had a clear purpose. He was
going away from Vincennes, or at least he would try, and woe be to Hamilton on his coming back.
It was so easy for an excited young mind to plan great things and to expect success under apparently
impossible conditions. Beverley gave Jean a note for Alice; it was this that took him to Roussillon
place; and no sooner fell the night than he shouldered a gun furnished him by Madame Godere,
and guided by the woodsman's fine craft, stole away southward, thinking to swim the icy Wabash
some miles below, and then strike across the plains of Illinois to Kaskaskia.

It was a desperate undertaking; but in those days desperate undertakings were rather the rule
than the exception. Moreover, love was the leader and Beverley the blind follower. Nothing
could daunt him or turn him back, until he found an army to lead against Hamilton. It seems
but a romantic burst of indignation, as we look back at it, hopelessly foolish, with no possible
end but death in the wilderness. Still there was a method in love's madness, and Beverley,
with his superb physique, his knowledge of the wilderness and his indomitable self-reliance,
was by no means without his fighting chance for success.

CHAPTER XII

MANON LESCAUT. AND A RAPIER-THRUST

Beverley's absence was not noticed by Hamilton until late on the following day, and even then
he scouted Helm's suggestion that the young man was possibly carrying out his threat to disregard
his parole.

"He would be quite justified in doing it; you know that very well," said Helm with a laugh,
"and he's just the man to undertake what is impossible. Of course, however, he'll get scalped
for his trouble, and that will cost you something, I'm happy to say."

"It's a matter of small importance," Hamilton replied; "but I'll wager you the next toddy that
he's not at the present moment a half-mile from this spot. He may be a fool, I readily grant
that he is, but even a fool is not going to set out alone in this kind of weather to go to
where your rebel friends are probably toasting their shins by a fire of green logs and half
starving over yonder on the Mississippi."

"Joking aside, you are doubtless right. Beverley is hot-headed, and if he could he'd get even
with you devilish quick; but he hasn't left Vincennes, I think. Miss Roussillon would keep
him here if the place were on fire!"

Hamilton laughed dryly. He had thought just what Helm was saying. Beverley's attentions to
Alice had not escaped his notice.

"Speaking of that girl," he remarked after a moment's silence, "what am I do to do with her?
There's no place to keep her, and Farnsworth insists that she wasn't to blame." He chuckled
again and added:

"It's true as gospel. He's in love with her, too. Seems to be glad she shot him. Says he's
ashamed of himself for ever suspecting her of anything but being a genuine angel. Why, he's
got as flabby as a rabbit and mumbles like a fool!"

"Same as you or I at his age," said Helm, taking a chew of tobacco. "She IS a pretty thing.
Beverley don't know his foot from his shoulder-blade when she's anywhere near him. Boys are
boys. I'm a sort of a boy myself."

"If she'd give up that flag he'd let her go," said Hamilton. "I hate like the devil to confine
her; it looks brutal, and makes me feel like a tyrant."

"Have you ever happened to notice the obvious fact, Governor Hamilton, that Alice Roussillon
and Father Beret are not all the French in Vincennes?"

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that I don't for a moment believe that either the girl or the priest knows a thing
about where that flag is. They are both as truthful and honorable as people ever get to be.
I know them. Somebody else got that flag from under the priest's floor. You may depend upon
that. If Miss Roussillon knew where it is she'd say so, and then dare you to make her tell
where it's hidden."

"Oh, the whole devilish town is rotten with treason; that's very clear. There's not a loyal
soul in it outside of my forces."

"Thank you for not including me among the loyalists."

"Humph, I spoke of these French people; they pretend to be true; but I believe they are all
traitors."

"You can manage them if you try. A little jolly kindness goes a long way with 'em. I had no
trouble while I held the town."

Hamilton bit his lip and was silent. Helm was exasperatingly good tempered, and his jocularity
was irresistible. While he was yet speaking a guard came up followed by Jean, the hunchback,
and saluting said to Hamilton:

"The lad wants to see the young lady, sir."

Hamilton gazed quizzically at Jean, who planted himself in his habitual attitude before him
and stared up into his face with the grotesque expression which seems to be characteristic
of hunchbacks and unfledged birds--the look of an embodied and hideous joke.

"Well, sir, what will you have?" the Governor demanded.

"I want to see Alice, if you please."

"What for?"

"I want to give her a book to read."

"Ah, indeed. Where is it? Let me see it."

Jean took from the breast of his loose jerkin a small volume, dog-eared and mildewed, and handed
it to Hamilton. Meantime he stood first on one foot, then the other, gnawing his thumb-nail
and blinking rapidly.

"Well, Helm, just look here!"

"What?"

"Manon Lescaut."

"And what's that?"

"Haven't you ever read it?"

"Read what?"

"This novel--Manon Lescaut."

"Never read a novel in my life. Never expect to."

Hamilton laughed freely at Helm's expense, then turned to Jean and gave him back the book.

It would have been quite military, had he taken the precaution to examine between the pages
for something hidden there, but he did not.

"Go, give it to her," he said, "and tell her I send my compliments, with great admiration of
her taste in literature." He motioned the soldier to show Jean to Alice. "It's a beastly French
story," he added, addressing Helm; "immoral enough to make a pirate blush. That's the sort
of girl Mademoiselle Roussillon is!"

"I don't care what kind of a book she reads," blurted Helm, "she's a fine, pure, good girl.
Everybody likes her. She's the good angel of this miserable frog-hole of a town. You'd like
her yourself, if you'd straighten up and quit burning tow in your brain all the time. You're
always so furious about something that you never have a chance to be just to yourself, or pleasant
to anybody else."

Hamilton turned fiercely on Helm, but a glimpse of the Captain's broad good-humored face heartily
smiling, dispelled his anger. There was no ground upon which to maintain a quarrel with a person
so persistently genial and so absurdly frank. And in fact Hamilton was not half so bad as his
choleric manifestations seemed to make him out. Besides, Helm knew just how far to go, just
when to stop.

"If I had got furious at you every time there was overwhelming provocation for it," Hamilton
said, "you'd have been long since hanged or shot. I fancy that I have shown angelic forbearance.
I've given you somewhat more than a prisoner's freedom."

"So you have, so you have," assented Helm. "I've often been surprised at your generous partiality
in my case. Let's have some hot water with something else in it, what do you say? I won't give
you any more advice for five minutes by your watch."

"But I want some advice at once."

"What about?"

"That girl."

"Turn her loose. That's easy and reputable."

"I'll have to, I presume; but she ought to be punished."

"If you'll think less about punishment, revenge and getting even with everybody and everything,
you'll soon begin to prosper."

Hamilton winced, but smiled as one quite sure of himself.

Jean followed the soldier to a rickety log pen on the farther side of the stockade, where he
found the prisoner restlessly moving about like a bird in a rustic cage. It had no comforts,
that gloomy little room. There was no fireplace, the roof leaked, and the only furniture consisted
of a bench to sit on and a pile of skins for bed. Alice looked charmingly forlorn peeping out
of the wraps in which she was bundled against the cold, her hair fluffed and rimpled in shining
disorder around her face.

The guard let Jean in and closed the door, himself staying outside.

Alice was as glad to see the poor lad as if they had been parted for a year. She hugged him
and kissed his drawn little face.

"You dear, good Jean!" she murmured, "you did not forget me."

"I brought you something," he whispered, producing the book.

Alice snatched it, looked at it, and then at Jean.

"Why, what did you bring this for? you silly Jean! I didn't want this. I don't like this book
at all. It's hateful. I despise it. Take it back."

"There's something in it for you, a paper with writing on it; Lieutenant Beverley wrote it
on there. It's shut up between the leaves about the middle."

"Sh-s-sh! not so loud, the guard'll hear you," Alice breathlessly whispered, her whole manner
changing instantly. She was trembling, and the color had been whisked from her face, as the
flame from a candle in a sudden draught.

She found the note and read it a dozen times without a pause, her eyes leaping along the lines
back and forth with pathetic eagerness and concentration. Presently she sat down on the bench
and covered her face with her hands. A tremor first, then a convulsive sobbing, shook her collapsed
form. Jean regarded her with a drolly sympathetic grimace, elevating his long chin and letting
his head settle back between his shoulders.

"Oh, Jean, Jean!" she cried at last, looking up and reaching out her arms; "O Jean, he is gone,
gone, gone!"

Jean stepped closer to her while she sobbed again like a little child.

She pulled him to her and held him tightly against her breast while she once more read the
note through blinding tears. The words were few, but to her they bore the message of desolation
and despair. A great, haunting, hollow voice in her heart repeated them until they echoed from
vague distance to distance.

It was written with a bit of lead on the half of a mildewed fly-leaf torn from the book:

"Dear Alice:

"I am going away. When you read this, think of me as hurrying through the wilderness to reach
our army and bring it here. Be brave, as you always have been; be good, as you cannot help
being; wait and watch for me; love me, as I love you. I will come. Do not doubt it, I will
come, and I will crush Hamilton and his command. Courage, Alice dear; courage, and wait for me.

"Faithfully ever,
  "Beverley."

She kissed the paper with passionate fervor, pouring her tears upon it in April showers between
which the light of her eyes played almost fiercely, so poignant was her sense of a despair
which bordered upon desperation. "Gone, gone!" It was all she could think or say. "Gone, gone."

Jean took the offending novel back home with him, hidden under his jerkin; but Beverley's note
lay upon Alice's heart, a sweet comfort and a crushing weight, when an hour later Hamilton
sent for her and she was taken before him. Her face was stained with tears and she looked pitifully
distressed and disheveled; yet despite all this her beauty asserted itself with subtle force.

Hamilton felt ashamed looking at her, but put on sternness and spoke without apparent sympathy:

"Miss Roussillon, you came near committing a great crime. As it is, you have done badly enough;
but I wish not to be unreasonably severe. I hope you are sorry for your act, and feel like
doing better hereafter."

She was trembling, but her eyes looked steadily straight into his. They were eyes of baby innocence,
yet they irradiated a strong womanly spirit just touched with the old perverse, mischievous
light which she could neither banish nor control. When she did not make reply, Hamilton continued:

"You may go home now, and I shall expect to have no more trouble on your account." He made
a gesture indicative of dismissal; then, as she turned from him, he added, somewhat raising
his voice:

"And further, Miss Roussillon, that flag you took from here must positively be returned. See
that it is done."

She lifted her head high and walked away, not deigning to give him a word.

"Humph! what do you think now of your fine young lady?" he demanded, turning to Helm with a
sneering curl of his mouth. "She gives thanks copiously for a kindness, don't you think?"

"Poor girl, she was scared nearly out of her life," said Helm. "She got away from you, like
a wounded bird from a snare. I never saw a face more pitiful than hers."

"Much pity she needs, and greatly like a wounded bird she acts, I must say; but good riddance
if she'll keep her place hereafter. I despise myself when I have to be hard with a woman, especially
a pretty one. That girl's a saucy and fascinating minx, and as dangerous as twenty men. I'll
keep a watch on her movements from this on, and if she gets into mischief again I'll transport
her to Detroit, or give her away to the Indians, She must stop her high-handed foolishness."

Helm saw that Hamilton was talking mere wind, VOX ET PRAETEREA NIHIL, and he furthermore felt
that his babbling signified no harm to Alice; but Hamilton surprised him presently by saying:

"I have just learned that Lieutenant Beverley is actually gone. Did you know of his departure?"

"What are you saying, sir?"

Helm jumped to his feet, not angry, but excited.

"Keep cool, you need not answer if you prefer silence or evasion. You may want to go yourself
soon."

Helm burst out laughing, but quickly growing serious said:

"Has Beverley been such a driveling fool as that? Are you in earnest?"

"He killed two of my scouts, wounded another, and crossed the Wabash in their canoe. He is
going straight towards Kaskaskia."

"The idiot! Hurrah for him! If you catch your hare you may roast him, but catch him first,
Governor!"

"You'll joke out of the other corner of your mouth, Captain Helm, if I find out that you gave
him aid or countenance in breaking his parole."

"Aid or countenance! I never saw him after he walked out of this room. You gave him a devil
of a sight more aid and countenance than I did. What are you talking about! Broke his parole!
He did no such thing. He returned it to you fairly, as you well know. He told you he was going."

"Well, I've sent twenty of my swiftest Indians after him to bring him back. I'll let you see
him shot. That ought to please you."

"They'll never get him, Governor. I'll bet high on him against your twenty scalp-lifters any
day. Fitzhugh Beverley is the best Indian fighter, Daniel Boone and Simon Kenton excepted,
in the American colonies."

On her way home Alice met Father Beret, who turned and walked beside her. He was so overjoyed
at her release that he could scarcely speak; but held her hand and stroked it gently while
she told him her story. It was beginning to rain, a steady, cold shower, when they reached
the house, and for many days and nights thereafter the downfall continued almost incessantly.

"Dear child," said Father Beret, stopping at the gate and looking beseechingly into Alice's
face, "you must stay at home now--stay in the house--it will be horribly dangerous for you
to pass about in the village after your--after what has happened."

"Do not fear, Father, I will be careful. Aren't you coming in? I'll find you a cake and a glass
of wine."

"No, child, not now."

"Then good-bye, good-bye," she said, turning from him to run into the house. "Come soon, I
shall be so lonesome."

On the veranda she suddenly stopped, running her fingers about her neck and into her bosom.

"Oh, Father, Father Beret, I've lost my locket!" she cried. "See if I dropped it there."

She went back to the gate, searching the ground with her eyes. Of course she did not find the
locket. It was miles and miles away close to the heart of her lover. If she could but have
known this, it would have comforted her. Beverley had intended to leave it with Jean, but in
his haste and excitement he forgot; writing the note distracted his attention; and so he bore
Alice's picture on his breast and in his heart while pursuing his long and perilous journey.

Four of Hamilton's scouts came upon Beverley twenty miles south of Vincennes, but having the
advantage of them, he killed two almost immediately, and after a running fight, the other two
attempted escape in a canoe on the Wabash. Here, firing from a bluff, he wounded a third. Both
then plunged head-foremost into the water, and by keeping below the surface, got away. The
adventure gave Beverley new spirit and self-reliance; he felt that he could accomplish anything
necessary to his undertaking. In the captured pirogue he crossed the river, and, to make his
trail hard to find, sent the little craft adrift down the current.

Then alone, in the dead of winter, he took his bearings and struck across the dreary, houseless
plain toward St. Louis.

As soon as Hamilton's discomfited scouts reported to him, he sent Long-Hair with twenty picked
savages, armed and supplied for continuous and rapid marching, in pursuit of Beverley. There
was a large reward for bringing him in alive, a smaller one for his scalp.

When Alice heard of all this, her buoyant and happy nature seemed entirely to desert her for
a time. She was proud to find out that Beverley had shown himself brave and capable; it touched
her love of heroism; but she knew too much about Indian warfare to hope that he could hold
his own against Long-Hair, the wiliest and boldest of scalp-hunters, and twenty of the most
experienced braves in Hamilton's forces. He would almost certainly be killed and scalped, or
captured and brought back to be shot or hanged in Vincennes. The thought chilled and curdled
her blood.

Both Helm and Father Beret tried to encourage and comfort her by representing the probabilities
in the fairest light.

"It's like hunting for a needle in a haystack, going out to find a man in that wilderness,"
said Helm with optimistic cheerfulness; "and besides Beverley is no easy dose for twenty red
niggers to take. I've seen him tried at worse odds than that, and he got out with a whole skin,
too. Don't you fret about him, Miss Roussillon."

Little help came to her from attempts of this sort. She might brighten up for a while, but
the dark dread, and the terrible gnawing at her heart, the sinking and despairing in her soul,
could not be cured.

What added immeasurably to her distress was the attention of Farnsworth, whose wound troubled
him but a short time. He seemed to have had a revelation and a change of spirit since the unfortunate
rencounter and the subsequent nursing at Alice's hands. He was grave, earnest, kindly, evidently
striving to play a gentle and honorable part. She could feel that he carried a load of regret,
that he wanted to pay a full price in good for the evil that he had done; his sturdy English
heart was righting itself nobly, yet she but half understood him, until his actions and words
began to betray his love; and then she hated him unreasonably. Realizing this, Farnsworth bore
himself more like a faithful dog than in the manner hitherto habitual to him. He simply shadowed
Alice and would not be rebuffed.

There can be nothing more painful to a finely sympathetic nature than regret for having done
a kindness. Alice experienced this to the fullest degree. She had nursed Farnsworth but a little
while, yet it was a while of sweet influence. Her tender woman nature felt the blessedness
of doing good to her enemy lying helpless in her house and hurt by her own hand. But now she
hated the man, and with all her soul she was sorry that she had been kind to him; for out of
her kindness he had drawn the spell of a love under which he lived a new life, and all for
her. Yet deep down in her consciousness the pity and the pathos of the thing hovered gloomily
and would not be driven out.

The rain in mid-winter gave every prospect a sad, cold, sodden gray appearance. The ground
was soaked, little rills ran in the narrow streets, the small streams became great rivers,
the Wabash overflowed its banks and made a sea of all the lowlands on either side. It was hard
on the poor dwellers in the thatched and mostly floorless cabins, for the grass roofs gradually
let the water through and puddles formed on the ground inside. Fuel was distant and had to
be hauled in the pouring rain; provisions were scarce and hunting almost impossible. Many people,
especially children, were taken ill with colds and fever. Alice found some relief from her
trouble in going from cabin to cabin and waiting upon the sufferers; but even here Farnsworth
could not be got rid of; he followed her night and day. Never was a good soldier, for he was
that from head to foot, more lovelorn and love-docile. The maiden had completely subdued the man.

About this time, deep in a rainy and pitch-black night, Gaspard Roussillon came home. He tapped
on the door again and again. Alice heard, but she hesitated to speak or move. Was she growing
cowardly? Her heart beat like a drum. There was but one person in all the world that she could
think of--it was not M. Roussillon. Ah, no, she had well-nigh forgotten her gigantic foster father.

"It is I, ma cherie, it is Gaspard, my love, open the door," came in a booming half-whisper
from without. "Alice, Jean, it is your Papa Roussillon, my dears. Let me in."

Alice was at the door in a minute, unbarring it. M. Roussillon entered, armed to the teeth,
the water dribbling from his buckskin clothes.

"Pouf!" he exclaimed, "my throat is like dust." His thoughts were diving into the stores under
the floor. "I am famished. Dear children, dear little ones! They are glad to see papa! Where
is your mama?"

He had Alice in his arms and Jean clung to his legs. Madame Roussillon, to be sure of no mistake,
lighted a lamp with a brand that smoldered on the hearth and held it up, then, satisfied as
to her husband's identity, set it on a shelf and flung herself into the affectionate group
with clumsy abandon, making a great noise.

"Oh, my dear Gaspard!" she cried as she lunged forward. "Gaspard, Gaspard!" Her voice fairly
lifted the roof; her great weight, hurled with such force, overturned everybody, and all of
them tumbled in a heap, the rotund and solid dame sitting on top.

"Ouf! not so impetuous, my dear," puffed M. Roussillon, freeing himself from her unpleasant
pressure and scrambling to his feet. "Really you must have fared well in my absence, Madame,
you are much heavier." He laughed and lifted her up as if she had been a child, kissing her
resonantly.

His gun had fallen with a great clatter. He took it from the floor and examined it to see if
it had been injured, then set it in a corner.

"I am afraid we have been making too much noise," said Alice, speaking very low. "There is
a patrol guard every night now. If they should hear you--"

"Shh!" whispered M. Roussillon, "we will be very still. Alice, is there something to eat and
a drop of wine handy? I have come many miles; I am tired, hungry, thirsty,--ziff!"

Alice brought some cold roast venison, a loaf, and a bottle of claret. These she set before
him on a little table.

"Ah, this is comfort," he said after he had gulped a full cup. "Have you all been well?"

Then he began to tell where he had been, what he had seen, and the many things he had done.
A Frenchman must babble while he eats and drinks. A little wine makes him eloquent. He talks
with his hands, shoulders, eyes. Madame Roussillon, Alice and Jean, wrapped in furs, huddled
around him to hear. He was very entertaining, and they forgot the patrol until a noise startled
them. It was the low of a cow. They laughed and the master of the house softened his voice.

M. Roussillon had been the guest of a great Indian chieftain, who was called the "Gate of the
Wabash," because he controlled the river. The chief was an old acquaintance and treated him well.

"But I wanted to see you all," Gaspard said. "I was afraid something might have happened to
you. So I came back just to peep in. I can't stay, of course; Hamilton would kill me as if
I were a wolf. I can remain but an hour and then slip out of town again before daylight conies.
The rain and darkness are my friends."

He had seen Simon Kenton, who said he had been in the neighborhood of Vincennes acting as a
scout and spy for Clark. Presently and quite casually he added:

"And I saw Lieutenant Beverley, too. I suppose you know that he has escaped from Hamilton,
and--" Here a big mouthful of venison interfered.

Alice leaned toward him white and breathless, her heart standing still.

Then the door, which had been left unbarred, was flung open and, along with a great rush of
wind and rain, the patrol guard, five in number, sprang in.

M. Roussillon reached his gun with one hand, with the other swung a tremendous blow as he leaped
against the intruders. Madame Roussillon blew out the light. No cave in the depth of earth
was ever darker than that room. The patrolmen could not see one another or know what to do;
but M. Roussillon laid about him with the strength of a giant. His blows sounded as if they
smashed bones. Men fell heavily thumping on the floor where he rushed along. Some one fired
a pistol and by its flash they all saw him; but instantly the darkness closed again, and before
they could get their bearings he was out and gone, his great hulking form making its way easily
over familiar ground where his would-be captors could have proceeded but slowly, even with
a light to guide them. There was furious cursing among the patrolmen as they tumbled about
in the room, the unhurt ones trampling their prostrate companions and striking wildly at each
other in their blindness and confusion. At last one of them bethought him to open a dark lantern
with which the night guards were furnished. Its flame was fluttering and gave forth a pale
red light that danced weirdly on the floors and walls.

Alice had snatched down one of her rapiers when the guards first entered. They now saw her
facing them with her slender blade leveled, her back to the wall, her eyes shining dangerously.
Madame Roussillon had fled into the adjoining room. Jean had also disappeared. The officer,
a subaltern, in charge of the guard, seeing Alice, and not quickly able to make out that it
was a woman thus defying him, crossed swords with her. There was small space for action; moreover
the officer being not in the least a swordsman, played awkwardly, and quick as a flash his
point was down. The rapier entered just below his thread with a dull chucking stab. He leaped
backward, feeling at the same time a pair of arms clasp his legs. It was Jean, and the Lieutenant,
thus unexpectedly tangled, fell to the floor, breaking but not extinguishing the guard's lantern
as he went down. The little remaining oil spread and flamed up brilliantly, as if eager for
conflagration, sputtering along the uneven boards.

"Kill that devil!" cried the Lieutenant, in a strangling voice, while trying to regain his
feet. "Shoot! Bayonet!"

In his pain, rage and haste, he inadvertently set his hand in the midst of the blazing oil,
which clung to the flesh with a seething grip.

"Hell!" he screamed, "fire, fire!"

Two or three bayonets were leveled upon Alice. Some one kicked Jean clean across the room,
and he lay there curled up in his hairy night-wrap looking like an enormous porcupine.

At this point a new performer came upon the stage, a dark-robed thing, so active that its outlines
changed elusively, giving it no recognizable features. It might have been the devil himself,
or some terrible unknown wild animal clad somewhat to resemble a man, so far as the startled
guards could make out. It clawed right and left, hurled one of them against the wall, dashed
another through the door into Madame Roussillon's room, where the good woman was wailing at
the top of her voice, and felled a third with a stroke like that of a bear's paw.

Consternation was at high tide when Farnsworth, who always slept with an ear open, reached
Roussillon place and quickly quieted things. He was troubled beyond expression when he found
out the true state of the affair, for there was nothing that he could do but arrest Alice and
take her to Hamilton. It made his heart sink. He would have thought little of ordering a file
of soldiers to shoot a man under the same conditions; but to subject her again to the Governor's
stern cruelty--how could he do it? This time there would be no hope for her.

Alice stood before him flushed, disheveled, defiant, sword in hand, beautiful and terrible
as an angel. The black figure, man or devil, had disappeared as strangely as it had come. The
sub-Lieutenant was having his slight wound bandaged. Men were raging and cursing under their
breath, rubbing their bruised heads and limbs.

"Alice--Mademoiselle Roussillon, I am so sorry for this," said Captain Farnsworth. "It is painful,
terrible--"

He could not go on, but stood before her unmanned. In the feeble light his face was wan and
his hurt shoulder, still in bandages, drooped perceptibly.

"I surrender to you," she presently said in French, extending the hilt of her rapier to him.
"I had to defend myself when attacked by your Lieutenant there. If an officer finds it necessary
to set upon a girl with his sword, may not the girl guard her life if she can?"

She was short of breath, so that her voice palpitated with a touching plangency that shook
the man's heart.

Farnsworth accepted the sword; he could do nothing less. His duty admitted of no doubtful consideration;
yet he hesitated, feeling around in his mind for a phrase with which to evade the inevitable.

"It will be safer for you at the fort, Mademoiselle; let me take you there."

CHAPTER XIII

A MEETING IN THE WILDERNESS

Beverley set out on his mid-winter journey to Kaskaskia with a tempest in his heart, and it
was, perhaps, the storm's energy that gave him the courage to face undaunted and undoubting
what his experience must have told him lay in his path. He was young and strong; that meant
a great deal; he had taken the desperate chances of Indian warfare many times before this,
and the danger counted as nothing, save that it offered the possibility of preventing him from
doing the one thing in life he now cared to do. What meant suffering to him, if he could but
rescue Alice? And what were life should he fail to rescue her? The old, old song hummed in
his heart, every phrase of it distinct above the tumult of the storm. Could cold and hunger,
swollen streams, ravenous wild beasts and scalp-hunting savages baffle him? No, there is no
barrier that can hinder love. He said this over and over to himself after his rencounter with
the four Indian scouts on the Wabash. He repeated it with every heart-beat until he fell in
with some friendly red men, who took him to their camp, where to his great surprise he met
M. Roussillon. It was his song when again he strode off toward the west on his lonely way.

We need not follow him step by step; the monotony of the woods and prairies, the cold rains,
alternating with northerly winds and blinding snow, the constant watchfulness necessary to
guard against a meeting with hostile savages, the tiresome tramping, wading and swimming, the
hunger, the broken and wretched sleep in frozen and scant wraps,--why detail it all?

There was but one beautiful thing about it--the beauty of Alice as she seemed to walk beside
him and hover near him in his dreams. He did not know that Long-Hair and his band were fast
on his track; but the knowledge could not have urged him to greater haste. He strained every
muscle to its utmost, kept every nerve to the highest tension. Yonder towards the west was
help for Alice; that was all he cared for.

But if Long-Hair was pursuing him with relentless greed for the reward offered by Hamilton,
there were friendly footsteps still nearer behind him; and one day at high noon, while he was
bending over a little fire, broiling some liberal cuts of venison, a finger tapped him on the
shoulder. He sprang up and grappled Oncle Jazon; at the same time, standing near by, he saw
Simon Kenton, his old-time Kentucky friend. The pungled features of one and the fine, rugged
face of the other swam as in a mist before Beverley's eyes. Kenton was laughing quietly, his
strong, upright form shaking to the force of his pleasure. He was in the early prime of a vigorous
life, not handsome, but strikingly attractive by reason of a certain glow in his face and a
kindly flash in his deep-set eyes.

"Well, well, my boy!" he exclaimed, laying his left hand on Beverley's shoulder, while in the
other he held a long, heavy rifle. "I'm glad to see ye, glad to see ye."

"Thought we was Injuns, eh?" said Oncle Jazon. "An' ef we had 'a' been we'd 'a' been shore
o' your scalp!" The wizzened old creole cackled gleefully.

"And where are ye goin'?" demanded Kenton. "Ye're making what lacks a heap o' bein' a bee-line
for some place or other."

Beverley was dazed and vacant-minded; things seemed wavering and dim. He pushed the two men
from him and gazed at them without speaking. Their presence and voices did not convince him.

"Yer meat's a burnin'," said Oncle Jazon, stooping to turn it on the smouldering coals. "Ye
must be hungry. Cookin' enough for a regiment."

Kenton shook Beverley with rough familiarity, as if to rouse his faculties.

"What's the matter? Fitz, my lad, don't ye know Si Kenton? It's not so long since we were like
brothers, and now ye don't speak to me! Ye've not forgot me, Fitz!"

"Mebby he don't like ye as well as ye thought he did," drawled Oncle Jazon. "I HEV known o'
fellers a bein' mistaken jes' thet way."

Beverley got his wits together as best he could, taking in the situation by such degrees as
seemed at the time unduly slow, but which were really mere momentary falterings.

"Why, Kenton! Jazon!" he presently exclaimed, a cordial gladness blending with his surprise.
"How did you get here? Where did you come from?"

He looked from one to the other back and forth with a wondering smile breaking over his bronzed
and determined face.

"We've been hot on yer trail for thirty hours," said Kenton. "Roussillon put us on it back
yonder. But what are ye up to? Where are ye goin'?"

"I'm going to Clark at Kaskaskia to bring him yonder." He waved his hand eastward. "I am going
to take Vincennes and kill Hamilton."

"Well, ye're taking a mighty queer course, my boy, if ye ever expect to find Kaskaskia. Ye're
already twenty miles too far south."

"Carryin' his gun on the same shoulder all the time," said Oncle Jazon, "has made 'im kind
o' swing in a curve like. 'Tain't good luck no how to carry yer gun on yer lef' shoulder. When
you do it meks yer take a longer step with yer right foot than ye do with yer lef' an' ye can't
walk a straight line to save yer liver. Ventreblue! La venaison brule encore! Look at that
dasted meat burnin' agin!"

He jumped back to the fire to turn the scorching cuts.

Beverley wrung Kenton's hand and looked into his eyes, as a man does when an old friend comes
suddenly out of the past, so to say, and brings the freshness and comfort of a strong, true
soul to brace him in his hour of greatest need.

"Of all men in the world, Simon Kenton, you were the least expected; but how glad I am! How
thankful! Now I know I shall succeed. We are going to capture Vincennes, Kenton, are we not?
We shall, sha'n't we, Jazon? Nothing, nothing can prevent us, can it?"

Kenton heartily returned the pressure of the young man's hand, while Oncle Jazon looked up
quizzically and said:

"We're a tol'ble 'spectable lot to prevent; but then we might git pervented. I've seed better
men an' us purty consid'ble pervented lots o' times in my life."

In speaking the colloquial dialect of the American backwoodsmen, Oncle Jazon, despite years
of practice among them, gave to it a creole lisp and some turns of pronunciation not to be
indicated by any form of spelling. It added to his talk a peculiar soft drollery. When he spoke
French it was mostly that of the COUREURS DE BOIS, a PATOIS which still lingers in out-of-the-way
nooks of Louisiana.

"For my part," said Kenton, "I am with ye, old boy, in anything ye want to do. But now ye've
got to tell me everything. I see that ye're keeping something back. What is it?" He glanced
sidewise slyly at Oncle Jazon.

Beverley was frank to a fault; but somehow his heart tried to keep Alice all to itself. He
hesitated; then--

"I broke my parole with Governor Hamilton," he said. "He forced me to do it. I feel altogether
justified. I told him beforehand that I should certainly leave Vincennes and go get a force
to capture and kill him; and I'll do it, Simon Kenton, I'll do it!"

"I see, I see," Kenton assented, "but what was the row about? What did he do to excite ye--to
make ye feel justified in breakin' over yer parole in that high-handed way? Fitz, I know ye
too well to be fooled by ye--you've got somethin' in mind that ye don't want to tell. Well,
then don't tell it. Oncle Jazon and I will go it blind, won't we, Jazon?"

"Blind as two moles," said the old man; "but as for thet secret," he added, winking both eyes
at once, "I don't know as it's so mighty hard to guess. It's always safe to 'magine a woman
in the case. It's mostly women 'at sends men a trottin' off 'bout nothin', sort o' crazy like."

Beverley looked guilty and Oncle Jazon continued: "They's a poo'ty gal at Vincennes, an' I
see the young man a steppin' into her house about fifteen times a day 'fore I lef' the place.
Mebbe she's tuck up wi' one o' them English officers. Gals is slippery an' onsartin'."

"Jazon!" cried Beverley, "stop that instantly, or I'll wring your old neck." His anger was
real and he meant what he said. He clenched his hands and glowered.

Oncle Jazon, who was still squatting by the little fire, tumbled over backwards, as if Beverley
had kicked him; and there he lay on the ground with his slender legs quivering akimbo in the
air, while he laughed in a strained treble that sounded like the whining of a screech-owl.

The old scamp did not know all the facts in Beverley's case, nor did he even suspect what had
happened; but he was aware of the young man's tender feeling for Alice, and he did shrewdly
conjecture that she was a factor in the problem.

The rude jest at her expense did not seem to his withered and toughened taste in the least
out of the way. Indeed it was a delectable bit of humor from Oncle Jazon's point of view.

"Don't get mad at the old man," said Kenton, plucking Beverley aside. "He's yer friend from
his heels to his old scalped crown. Let him have his fun." Then lowering his voice almost to
a whisper he continued:

"I was in Vincennes for two days and nights spyin' around. Madame Godere hid me in her house
when there was need of it. I know how it is with ye; I got all the gossip about ye and the
young lady, as well as all the information about Hamilton and his forces that Colonel Clark
wants. I'm goin' to Kaskaskia; but I think it quite possible that Clark will be on his march
to Vincennes before we get there; for Vigo has taken him full particulars as to the fort and
its garrison, and I know that he's determined to capture the whole thing or die tryin'."

Beverley felt his heart swell and his blood leap strong in his veins at these words.

"I saw ye while I was in Vincennes," Kenton added, "but I never let ye see me. Ye were a prisoner,
and I had no business with ye while your parole held. I felt that it was best not to tempt
ye to give me aid, or to let ye have knowledge of me while I was a spy. I left two days before
ye did, and should have been at Kaskaskia by this time if I hadn't run across Jazon, who detained
me. He wanted to go with me, and I waited for him to repair the stock of his old gun. He tinkered
at it 'tween meals and showers for half a week at the Indian village back yonder before he
got it just to suit him. But I tell ye he's wo'th waiting for any length of time, and I was
glad to let him have his way."

Kenton, who was still a young man in his early thirties, respected Beverley's reticence on
the subject uppermost in his mind. Madame Godere had told the whole story with flamboyant embellishments;
Kenton tiad seen Alice, and, inspired with the gossip and a surreptitious glimpse of her beauty,
he felt perfectly familiar with Beverley's condition. He was himself a victim of the tender
passion to the extent of being an exile from his Virginia home, which he had left on account
of dangerously wounding a rival. But he was well touched with the backwoodsman's taste for
joke and banter. He and Oncle Jazon, therefore, knowing the main feature of Beverley's predicament,
enjoyed making the most of their opportunity in their rude but perfectly generous and kindly way.

By indirection and impersonal details, as regarded his feelings toward Alice, Beverley in due
time made his friends understand that his whole ambition was centered in rescuing her. Nor
did the motive fail to enlist their sympathy to the utmost. If all the world loves a lover,
all men having the best virile instinct will fight for a lover's cause. Both Kenton and Oncle
Jazon were enthusiastic; they wanted nothing better than an opportunity to aid in rescuing
any girl who had shown so much patriotism and pluck. But Oncle Jazon was fond of Alice, and
Beverley's story affected him peculiarly on her account.

"They's one question I'm a goin' to put to ye, young man," he said, after he had heard everything
and they had talked it all over, "an' I want ye to answer it straight as a bullet f'om yer gun."

"Of course, Jazon, go ahead," said Beverley. "I shall be glad to answer." But his mind was
far away with the gold-haired maiden in Hamilton's prison. He scarcely knew what he was saying.

"Air ye expectin' to marry Alice Roussillon?"

The three men were at the moment eating the well broiled venison. Oncle Jazon's puckered lips
and chin were dripping with the fragrant grease and juice, which also flowed down his sinewy,
claw-like fingers. Overhead in the bare tops of the scrub oaks that covered the prairie oasis,
the February wind sang a shrill and doleful song.

Beverley started as if a blow had been aimed at him. Oncle Jazon's question, indeed, was a
blow as unexpected as it was direct and powerful.

"I know it's poo'ty p'inted," the old man added after a short pause, "an' ye may think 'at
I ain't got no business askin' it; but I have. That leetle gal's a pet o' mine, an' I'm a lookin'
after her, an' expectin' to see 'at she's not bothered by nobody who's not goin' to do right
by her. Marryin' is a mighty good thing, but--"

"What do ye know about matrimony, ye old raw-headed bachelor?" demanded Kenton, who felt impelled
to relieve Beverley of the embarrassment of an answer. "Ye wouldn't know a wife from a sack
o' meal!"

"Now don't git too peart an' fast, Si Kenton," cried Oncle Jazon, glaring truculently at his
friend, but at the same time showing a dry smile that seemed to be hopelessly entangled in
criss-cross wrinkles. "Who told ye I was a bach'lor? Not by a big jump. I've been married mighty
nigh on to twenty times in my day. Mos'ly Injuns, o' course; but a squaw's a wife w'en ye marries
her, an' I know how it hurts a gal to be dis'p'inted in sich a matter. That's w'y I put the
question I did. I'm not goin' to let no man give sorry to that little Roussillon gal; an' so
ye've got my say. Ye seed her raise thet flag on the fort, Lieutenant Beverley, an' ye seed
her take it down an' git away wi' it. You know 'at she deserves nothin' but the best; an' by
the Holy Virgin, she's got to have it, or I'm a goin' to know several reasons why. Thet's what
made me put the question straight to ye, young man, an' I expects a straight answer."

Beverley's face paled; but not with anger. He grasped one of Oncle Jazon's greasy hands and
gave it such a squeeze that the old fellow grimaced painfully.

"Thank you, Oncle Jazon, thank you!" he said, with a peculiar husky burr in his voice. "Alice
will never suffer if I can help it. Let the subject drop now, my friend, until we have saved
her from the hands of Hamilton." In the power of his emotion he continued to grip the old man's
hand with increasing severity of pressure.

"Ventrebleu! let go! Needn't smash a feller's fingers 'bout it!" screeched Oncle Jazon. "I
can't shoot wo'th a cent, nohow, an' ef ye cripple up my trigger-finger--"

Kenton had been peeping under the low-hanging scrub-oak boughs while Oncle Jazon was speaking
these last words; and now he suddenly interrupted:

"The devil! look yonder!" he growled out in startling tone. "Injuns!"

It was a sharp snap of the conversation's thread, and at the same time our three friends realized
that they had been careless in not keeping a better look-out. They let fall the meat they had
not yet finished eating and seized their guns.

Five or six dark forms were moving toward them across a little point of the prairie that cut
into the wood a quarter of a mile distant.

"Yander's more of 'em," said Oncle Jazon, as if not in the least concerned, wagging his head
in an opposite direction, from which another squad was approaching.

That he duly appreciated the situation appeared only in the celerity with which he acted.

Kenton at once assumed command, and his companions felt his perfect fitness. There was no doubt
from the first as to what the Indians meant; but even if there had been it would have soon
vanished; for in less than three minutes twenty-one savages were swiftly and silently forming
a circle inclosing the spot where the three white men, who had covered themselves as best they
could with trees, waited in grim steadiness for the worst.

Quite beyond gunshot range, but near enough for Oncle Jazon to recognize Long-Hair as their
leader, the Indians halted and began making signs to one another all round the line. Evidently
they dreaded to test the marksmanship of such riflemen as they knew most border men to be.
Indeed, Long-Hair had personal knowledge of what might certainly be expected from both Kenton
and Oncle Jazon; they were terrible when out for fight; the red warriors from Georgia to the
great lakes had heard of them; their names smacked of tragedy. Nor was Beverley without fame
among Long-Hair's followers, who had listened to the story of his fighting qualities, brought
to Vincennes by the two survivors of the scouting party so cleverly defeated by him.

"The liver-colored cowards," said Kenton, "are afeared of us in a shootin'-match; they know
that a lot of 'em would have to die if they should undertake an open fight with us. It's some
sort of a sneakin' game they are studyin' about just now."

"I'm a gittin' mos' too ole to shoot wo'th a cent," said Oncle Jazon, "but I'd give half o'
my scalp ef thet Long-Hair would come clost enough fo' me to git a bead onto his lef' eye.
It's tol'ble plain 'at we're gone goslins this time, I'm thinkin'; still it'd be mighty satisfyin'
if I could plug out a lef' eye or two 'fore I go."

Beverley was silent; the words of his companions were heard by him, but not noticed. Nothing
interested him save the thought of escaping and making his way to Clark. To fail meant infinitely
more than death, of which he had as small fear as most brave men, and to succeed meant everything
that life could offer. So, in the unlimited selfishness of love, he did not take his companions
into account.

The three stood in a close-set clump of four or five scrub oaks at the highest point of a thinly
wooded knoll that sloped down in all directions to the prairie. Their view was wide, but in
places obstructed by the trees.

"Men," said Kenton, after a thoughtful and watchful silence, "the thing looks kind o' squally
for us. I don't see much of a chance to get out of this alive; but we've got to try."

He showed by the density of his voice and a certain gray film in his face that he felt the
awful gravity of the situation; but he was calm and not a muscle quivered.

"They's jes' two chances for us," said Oncle Jazon, "an' them's as slim as a broom straw. We've
got to stan' here an' fight it out, or wait till night an' sneak through atween 'em an' run
for it."

"I don't see any hope o' sneakin' through the line," observed Kenton. "It's not goin' to be
dark tonight."

"Wa-a-l," Oncle Jazon drawled nonchalantly while he took in a quid of tobacco, "I've been into
tighter squeezes 'an this, many a time, an' I got out, too."

"Likely enough," said Kenton, still reflecting while his eyes roamed around the circle of savages.

"I fit the skunks in Ferginny 'fore you's thought of, Si Kenton, an' down in Car'lina in them
hills. If ye think I'm a goin' to be scalped where they ain't no scalp, 'ithout tryin' a few
dodges, yer a dad dasteder fool an' I used to think ye was, an' that's makin' a big compliment
to ye."

"Well, we don't have to argy this question, Oncle Jazon; they're a gittin' ready to run in
upon us, and we've got to fight. I say, Beverley, are ye ready for fast shootin'? Have ye got
a plenty of bullets?"

"Yes, Roussillon gave me a hundred. Do you think--"

He was interrupted by a yell that leaped from savage mouth to mouth all round the circle, and
then the charge began.

"Steady, now," growled Kenton, "let's not be in a hurry. Wait till they come nigh enough to
hit 'em before we shoot."

The time was short; for the Indians came on at almost race-horse speed.

Oncle Jazon fired first, the long, keen crack of his small-bore rifle splitting the air with
a suggestion of vicious energy, and a lithe young warrior, who was outstripping all his fellows,
leaped high and fell paralyzed.

"Can't shoot wo'th a cent," muttered the old man, deftly beginning to reload his gun the while;
"but I jes' happened to hit that buck. He'll never git my scalp, thet's sartin an' sure."

Beverley and Kenton each likewise dropped an Indian; but the shots did not even check the rush.
Long-Hair had planned to capture his prey, not kill it. Every savage had his orders to take
the white men alive; Hamilton's larger reward depended on this.

Right on they came, as fast as their nimble legs could carry them, yelling like demons; and
they reached the grove before the three white men could reload their guns. Then every warrior
took cover behind a tree and began scrambling forward from bole to bole, thus approaching rapidly
without much exposure.

"Our 'taters is roasted brown," muttered Oncle Jazon. He crossed himself. Possibly he prayed;
but he was priming his old gun the next instant.

Kenton fired again, making a hurried and ineffectual attempt to stop the nearest warrior, who
saved himself by quickly skipping behind a tree. Beverley's gun snapped, the flint failing
to make fire; but Oncle Jazon bored a little hole through the head of the Indian nearest him;
and then the final rush was made from every direction.

A struggle ensued, which for desperate energy has probably never been surpassed. Like three
lions at bay, the white men met the shock, and lion-like they fought in the midst of seventeen
stalwart and determined savages.

"Don't kill them, take them alive; throw them down and hold them!" was Long-Hair's order loudly
shouted in the tongue of his tribe.

Both Kenton and Jazon understood every word and knew the significance of such a command from
the leader. It naturally came into Kenton's mind that Hamilton had been informed of his visit
to Vincennes and had offered a reward for his capture. This being true, death as a spy would
be the certain result if he were taken back. He might as well die now. As for Beverley, he
thought only of Alice, yonder as he had left her, a prisoner in Hamilton's hands, Oncle Jazon,
if he thought at all, probably considered nothing but present escape, though he prayed audibly
to the Blessed Virgin, even while he lay helpless upon the ground, pinned down by the weight
of an enormous Indian. He could not move any part of himself, save his lips, and these mechanically
put forth the wheezing supplication.

Beverley and Kenton, being young and powerful, were not so easily mastered. For a while, indeed,
they appeared to be more than holding their own. They time and time again scattered the entire
crowd by the violence of their muscular efforts; and after it had finally closed in upon them
in a solid body they swayed and swung it back and forth and round and round until the writhing,
savage mass looked as if caught in the vortex of a whirlwind. But such tremendous exertion
could not last long. Eight to one made too great a difference between the contending parties,
and the only possible conclusion of the struggle soon came. Seized upon by desperate, clinging,
wolf-like assailants, the white men felt their arms, legs and bodies weighted down and their
strength fast going.

Kenton fell next after Oncle Jazon, and was soon tightly bound with rawhide thongs. He lay
on his back panting and utterly exhausted, while Beverley still kept up the unequal fight.

Long-Hair sprang in at the last moment to make doubly certain the securing of his most important
captive. He flung his long and powerful arms around Beverley from behind and made a great effort
to throw him upon the ground. The young man, feeling this fresh and vigorous clasp, turned
himself about to put forth one more mighty spurt of power. He lifted the stalwart Indian bodily
and dashed him headlong against the buttressed root of a tree half a rod distant, breaking
the smaller bone of his left fore-arm and well-nigh knocking him senseless.

It was a fine exhibition of manly strength; but there could be nothing gained by it. A blow
on the back of his head the next instant stretched Beverley face downward and unconscious on
the ground. The savages turned him over and looked satisfied when they found that he was not
dead. They bound him with even greater care than they had shown in securing the others, while
Long-Hair stood by stolidly looking on, meantime supporting his broken fore-arm in his hand.

"Ugh! dog!" he grunted, and gave Beverley a kick in the side. Then turning a fiendish stare
upon Oncle Jazon he proceeded to deliver against his old, dry ribs three or four like contributions
with resounding effect. "Polecat! Little old greasy woman!" he snarled, "make good fire for
warrior to dance by!" Kenton also received his full share of the kicks and verbal abuse, after
which Long-Hair gave orders for fires to be built. Then he looked to his hurt arm and had the
bone set and bandaged, never so much as wincing the while.

It was soon apparent that the Indians purposed to celebrate their successful enterprise with
a feast. They cooked a large amount of buffalo steak; then, each with his hands full of the
savory meat, they began to dance around the fires, droning meantime an atrociously repellant chant.

"They're a 'spectin' to hev a leetle bit o' fun outen us," muttered Oncle Jazon to Beverley,
who lay near him. "I onderstan' what they're up to, dad dast 'em! More'n forty years ago, in
Ca'lina, they put me an' Jim Hipes through the ga'ntlet, an' arter thet, in Kaintuck, me an'
Si Kenton tuck the run. Hi, there, Si! where air ye?"

"Shut yer fool mouth," Kenton growled under his breath. "Ye'll have that Injun a kickin' our
lights out of us again."

Oncle Jazon winked at the gray sky and puckered his mouth so that it looked like a nutgall
on an old, dry leaf.

"What's the diff'ence?" he demanded. "I'd jest as soon be kicked now as arter while; it's got
to come anyhow."

Kenton made no response. The thongs were torturing his arms and legs. Beverley was silent,
but consciousness had returned, and with it a sense of despair. All three of the prisoners
lay face upward quite unable to move, knowing full well that a terrible ordeal awaited them.
Oncle Jazon's grim humor could not be quenched, even by the galling agony of the thongs that
buried themselves in the flesh, and the anticipation of torture beside which death would seem
a luxury.

"Yap! Long-Hair, how's yer arm?" he called jeeringly. "Feels pooty good, hay?"

Long-Hair, who was not joining in the dance and song, turned when he heard these taunting words,
and mistaking whence they came, went to Beverley's side and kicked him again and again.

Oncle Jazon heard the loud blows, and considered the incident a remarkably good joke.

"He, he, he!" he snickered, as soon as Long-Hair walked away again. "I does the talkin' an'
somebody else gits the thumpin'! He, he, he! I always was devilish lucky. Them kicks was good
solid jolts, wasn't they, Lieutenant? Sounded like they was. He, he, he!"

Beverley gave no heed to Oncle Jazon's exasperating pleasantry; but Kenton, sorely chafing
under the pressure of his bonds, could not refrain from making retort in kind.

"I'd give ye one poundin' that ye'd remember, Emile Jazon, if I could get to ye, ye old twisted-face,
peeled-headed, crooked-mouthed, aggravatin' scamp!" he exclaimed, not thinking how high his
naturally strong voice was lifted. "I can stand any fool but a damn fool!"

Long-Hair heard the concluding epithet and understood its meaning. Moreover, he thought himself
the target at which it was so energetically launched. Wherefore he promptly turned back and
gave Kenton a kicking that made his body resound not unlike a drum.

And here it was that Oncle Jazon overreached himself. He was so delighted at Kenton's luck
that he broke forth giggling and thereby drew against his own ribs a considerable improvement
of Long-Hair's pedal applications.

"Ventrebleu!" whined the old man, when the Indian had gone away again. "Holy Mary! Jee-ru-sa-lem!
They's nary bone o' me left 'at's not splintered as fine as toothpickers! S'pose yer satisfied
now, ain't ye, Si Kenton? Ef ye ain't I'm shore to satisfy ye the fust time I git a chance
at ye, ye blab-mouthed eejit!"

Before this conversation was ended a rain began to fall, and it rapidly thickened from a desultory
shower to a roaring downpour that effectually quenched not only the fires around which the
savages were dancing, but the enthusiasm of the dancers as well. During the rest of the afternoon
and all night long the fall was incessant, accompanied by a cold, panting, wailing southwest wind.

Beverley lay on the ground, face upward, the rawhide strings torturing his limbs, the chill
of cold water searching his bones. He could see nothing but the dim, strange canopy of flying
rain, against which the bare boughs of the scrub oaks were vaguely outlined; he could hear
nothing but the cry of the wind and the swash of the water which fell upon him and ran under
him, bubbling and gurgling as if fiendishly exultant.

The night dragged on through its terrible length, dealing out its indescribable horrors, and
at last morning arrived, with a stingy and uncertain gift of light slowly increasing until
the dripping trees appeared forlornly gray and brown against clouds now breaking into masses
that gave but little rain.

Beverley lived through the awful trial and even had the hardihood to brighten inwardly with
the first flash of sunlight that shot through a cloud-crack on the eastern horizon. He thought
of Alice, as he had done all night; but now the thought partook somehow of the glow yonder
above old Vincennes, although he could only see its reflection.

There was great stir among the Indians. Long-Hair stalked about scrutinizing the ground. Beverley
saw him come near time and again with a hideous, inquiring scowl on his face. Grunts and laconic
exclamations passed from mouth to mouth, and presently the import of it all could not be mistaken.
Kenton and Jazon were gone--had escaped during the night--and the rain had completely obliterated
their tracks.

The Indians were furious. Long-Hair sent out picked parties of his best scouts with orders
to scour the country in all directions, keeping with himself a few of the older warriors. Beverley
was fed what he would eat of venison, and Long-Hair made him understand that he would have
to suffer some terrible punishment on account of the action of his companions.

Late in the day the scouts straggled back with the report that no track or sign of the fugitives
had been discovered, and immediately a consultation was held. Most of the warriors, including
all of the young bucks, demanded a torture entertainment as compensation for their exertions
and the unexpected loss of their own prisoners; for it had been agreed that Beverley belonged
exclusively to Long-Hair, who objected to anything which might deprive him of the great reward
offered by Hamilton for the prisoner if brought to him alive.

In the end it was agreed that Beverley should be made to run the gauntlet, provided that no
deadly weapons were used upon him during the ordeal.

CHAPTER XIV

A PRISONER OF LOVE

Alice put on her warmest clothes and followed Captain Farnsworth to the fort, realizing that
no pleasant experience awaited her. The wind and rain still prevailed when they were ready
to set forth, and, although it was not extremely cold, a searching chill went with every throb
that marked the storm's waves. No lights shone in the village houses. Overhead a gray gloom
covered stars and sky, making the darkness in the watery streets seem densely black. Farnsworth
offered Alice his arm, but she did not accept it.

"I know the way better than you do," she said. "Come on, and don't be afraid that I am going
to run. I shall not play any trick on you."

"Very well, Mademoiselle, as you like. I trust you."

He followed her from the house. He was so filled with the bitterness of what he was doing that
he carried her sword in his hand all the way to the fort, quite unaware that its point often
touched her dress so that she plainly felt it. Indeed, she thought he was using that ruffianly
and dangerous means of keeping pace with her. He had sent the patrol on its rounds, taking
upon himself the responsibility of delivering her to Hamilton. She almost ran, urged by the
strange excitement that burned in her heart, and he followed somewhat awkwardly, stumbling
over the unfamiliar way in the rain and darkness.

At every step he was wishing that she would escape from him. Coarse as his nature was and distorted
by hardening experiences, it was rooted in good English honesty and imbued with a chivalric
spirit. When, as happened too often, he fell under the influence of liquor, the bad in him
promptly came uppermost; but at all other times his better traits made him a good fellow to
meet, genial, polite, generous, and inclined to recognize the finer sentiments of manliness.
To march into his commander's presence with Alice as his prisoner lacked everything of agreeing
with his taste; yet he had not been willing to give her over into the hands of the patrol.
If his regard for military obligation had not been exceptionally strong, even for an English
soldier, he would have given way to the temptation of taking her to some place of hiding and
safety, instead of brutally subjecting her to Hamilton's harsh judgment. He anticipated a trying
experience for her on account of this new transgression.

They hastened along until a lantern in the fort shot a hazy gleam upon them.

"Stop a moment, Mademoiselle," Farnsworth called. "I say, Miss Roussillon, stop a moment, please."

Alice halted and turned facing him so short and so suddenly that the rapier in his hand pricked
through her wraps and slightly scratched her arm.

"What do you mean, sir?" she demanded, thinking that he had thrust purposely. "Do I deserve
this brutality?"

"You mistake me, Miss Roussillon. I cannot be brutal to you now. Do not fear me; I only had
a word to say."

"Oh, you deem it very polite and gentle to jab me with your sword, do you? If I had one in
my hand you would not dare try such a thing, and you know it very well."

He was amazed, not knowing that the sword-point had touched her. He could not see her face,
but there was a flash in her voice that startled him with its indignant contempt and resentment.

"What are you saying, Miss Roussillon? I don't understand you. When did I ever--when did I
jab you with my sword? I never thought of such a thing."

"This moment, sir, you did, and you know you did. My arm is bleeding now."

She spoke rapidly in French; but he caught her meaning, and for the first became aware of the
rapier in his hand. Even then its point was toward her and very near her breast. He lowered
it instantly while the truth rushed into his mind.

"Forgive me," he murmured, his words barely audible in the tumult of wind and rain, but charged
with the intensest feeling.

"Forgive me; I did not know--it was an accident--I could not do such a thing purposely. Believe
me, believe me, Miss Roussillon. I did not mean it."

She stood facing him, trying to look right into his eyes. A quality in his voice had checked
her hot anger. She could only see his dim outlines in the dull gleam from the fort's lantern.
He seemed to be forlornly wretched.

"I should like to believe you," she presently said, "but I cannot. You English are all, all
despicable, mean, vile!"

She was remembering the young officer who had assaulted her with his sword in the house a while
ago. And (what a strange thing the human brain is!) she at the same time comforted herself
with the further thought that Beverley would never, never, be guilty of rudeness to a woman.

"Some time you shall not say that," Farnsworth responded. "I asked you to stop a moment that
I might beg you to believe how wretchedly sorry I am for what I am doing. But you cannot understand
me now. Are you really hurt, Miss Roussillon? I assure you that it was purely accidental."

"My hurt is nothing," she said.

"I am very glad."

"Well, then, shall we go on to the fort?"

"You may go where you please, Mademoiselle."

She turned her back upon him and without an answering word walked straight to the lantern that
hung by the gate of the stockade, where a sentinel tramped to and fro. A few moments later
Captain Farnsworth presented her to Hamilton, who had been called from his bed when the news
of the trouble at Roussillon place reached the fort.

"So you've been raising hell again, have you, Miss?" he growled, with an ugly frown darkening
his face.

"I beg your pardon," said Farnsworth, "Miss Roussillon was not to blame for--"

"In your eyes she'd not be to blame, sir, if she burned up the fort and all of us in it," Hamilton
gruffly interrupted. "Miss, what have you been doing? What are you here for? Captain Farnsworth,
you will please state the particulars of the trouble that I have just heard about. And I may
as well notify you that I wish to hear no special lover's pleading in this girl's behalf."

Farnsworth's face whitened with anger; he bit his lip and a shiver ran through his frame; but
he had to conquer the passion. In a few words, blunt and direct as musket-balls, he told all
the circumstances of what had taken place, making no concealments to favor Alice, but boldly
blaming the officer of the patrol, Lieutenant Barlow, for losing his head and attacking a young
girl in her own home.

"I will hear from Barlow," said Hamilton, after listening attentively to the story. "But take
this girl and confine her. Show her no favors. I hold you responsible for her until to-morrow
morning. You can retire."

There was no room for discussion. Farnsworth saluted and turned to Alice.

"Come with me," he gently said.

Hamilton looked after them as they went out of his room, a curious smile playing around his
firmly set lips.

"She's the most beautiful vixen that I ever saw," he thought. "She doesn't look to be a French
girl, either--decidedly English." He shrugged his shoulders, then laughed dryly. "Farnsworth's
as crazy as can be, the beggar; in love with her so deep that he can't see out. By Jove, she
IS a beauty! Never saw such eyes. And plucky to beat the devil. I'll bet my head Barlow'll
be daft about her next!"

Still, notwithstanding the lightness of his inward comments, Hamilton regarded the incident
as rather serious. He knew that the French inhabitants were secretly his bitter enemies, yet
probably willing, if he would humor their peculiar social, domestic and commercial prejudices,
to refrain from active hostilities, and even to aid him in furnishing his garrison with a large
amount of needed supplies. The danger just now was twofold; his Indian allies were deserting
him, and a flotilla loaded with provisions and ammunition from Detroit had failed to arrive.
He might, if the French rose against him and were joined by the Indians, have great difficulty
defending the fort. It was clear that M. Roussillon had more influence with both creoles and
savages than any other person save Father Beret. Urgent policy dictated that these two men
should somehow be won over. But to do this it would be necessary to treat Alice in such a way
that her arrest would aid, instead of operating against the desired result,--a thing not easy
to manage.

Hamilton was not a man of fine scruples, but he may have been, probably was, better than our
American historians have made him appear. His besetting weakness, which, as a matter of course,
he regarded as the highest flower of efficiency, was an uncontrollable temper, a lack of fine
human sympathy and an inability to forgive. In his calmest moments, when prudence appealed
to him, he would resolve to use diplomatic means; but no sooner was his opinion questioned
or his purpose opposed than anger and the thirst for revenge overpowered every gentler consideration.
He returned to his bed that night fully resolved upon a pleasant and successful interview with
Alice next morning.

Captain Farnsworth took his fair prisoner straight-way from Hamilton's presence to a small
room connected with a considerable structure in a distant angle of the stockade. Neither he
nor Alice spoke on the way. With a huge wooden key he unlocked the door and stepped aside for
her to enter. A dim lamp was burning within, its yellowish light flickering over the scant
furniture, which consisted of a comfortable bed, a table with some books on it, three chairs,
a small looking-glass on the wall, a guitar and some articles of men's clothing hanging here
and there. A heap of dull embers smouldered in the fireplace. Alice did not falter at the threshold,
but promptly entered her prison.

"I hope you can be comfortable," said Farnsworth in a low tone. "It's the best I can give you."

"Thank you," was the answer spoken quite as if he had handed her a glass of water or picked
up her handkerchief.

He held the door a moment, while she stopped, with her back toward him, in the middle of the
room; then she heard him close and lock it. The air was almost too warm after her exposure
to the biting wind and cold dashes of rain. She cast off her outer wraps and stood by the fireplace.
At a glance she comprehended that the place was not the one she had formerly occupied as a
prisoner, and that it belonged to a man. A long rifle stood in a corner, a bullet-pouch and
powder-horn hanging on a projecting hickory ramrod; a heavy fur top-coat lay across one of
the chairs.

Alice felt her situation bitterly enough; but she was not of the stuff that turns to water
at the touch of misfortune. Pioneer women took hardships as a matter of course, and met calamity
with admirable fortitude. There was no wringing of hands, no frantic wailing, no hollow, despairing
groan. While life lasted hope flourished, even in most tragic surroundings; and not unfrequently
succor came, at the last verge of destruction, as the fitting reward of unconquerable courage.
A girl like Alice must be accepted in the spirit of her time and surroundings. She was born
amid experiences scarcely credible now, and bred in an area and an atmosphere of incomparable
dangers. Naturally she accepted conditions of terrible import with a sang froid scarcely possible
to a girl of our day. She did not cry, she did not sink down helpless when she found herself
once more imprisoned with some uncertain trial before her; but simply knelt and repeated the
Lord's prayer, then went to bed and slept; even dreamed the dream of a maid's first love.

Meantime Farnsworth, who had given Alice his own apartment, took what rest he could on the
cold ground under a leaky shed hard by. His wound, not yet altogether healed, was not benefited
by the exposure.

In due time next morning Hamilton ordered Alice brought to his office, and when she appeared
he was smiling with as near an approach to affability as his disposition would permit. He rose
and bowed like a courtier.

"I hope you rested well, Mademoiselle," he said in his best French. He imagined that the use
of her language would be agreeable to begin with.

The moment that Alice saw him wearing that shallow veneering of pleasantness on his never prepossessing
visage, she felt a mood of perversity come over her. She, too, smiled, and he mistook her expression
for one of reciprocal amenity. She noticed that her sword was on his table.

"I am sorry, Monsieur, that I cannot say as much to you," she glibly responded. "If you lay
upon a bed of needles the whole night through, your rest was better than you deserved. My own
sleep was quite refreshing, thank you."

Instantly Hamilton's choler rose. He tried to suppress it at first; but when he saw Alice actually
laughing, and Farnsworth (who had brought her in) biting his lip furiously to keep from adding
an uproarious guffaw, he lost all hold of himself. He unconsciously picked up the rapier and
shook it till its blade swished.

"I might have known better than to expect decency from a wench of your character," he said.
"I hoped to do you a favor; but I see that you are not capable of accepting kindness politely."

"I am sure, Monsieur, that I have but spoken the truth plainly to you. You would not have me
do otherwise, I hope."

Her voice, absolutely witching in its softness, freshness and suavity, helped the assault of
her eyes, while her dimples twinkled and her hair shone. Hamilton felt his heart move strangely;
but he could not forbear saying in English:

"If you are so devilish truthful, Miss, you will probably tell me where the flag is that you
stole and hid."

It was always the missing banner that came to mind when he saw her.

"Indeed I will do nothing of the sort," she promptly replied. "When you see that flag again
you will be a prisoner and I will wave it high over your head."

She lifted a hand as she spoke and made the motion of shaking a banner above him. It was exasperation
sweetened almost to delight that took hold of the sturdy Briton. He liked pluck, especially
in a woman; all the more if she was beautiful. Yet the very fact that he felt her charm falling
upon him set him hard against her, not as Hamilton the man, but as Hamilton the commander at
Vincennes.

"You think to fling yourself upon me as you have upon Captain Farnsworth," he said, with an
insulting leer and in a tone of prurient innuendo. "I am not susceptible, my dear." This more
for Farnsworth's benefit than to insult her, albeit he was not in a mood to care.

"You are a coward and a liar!" she exclaimed, her face flushing with hot shame. "You stand
here," she quickly added, turning fiercely upon Farnsworth, "and quietly listen to such words!
You, too, are a coward if you do not make him retract! Oh, you English are low brutes!"

Hamilton laughed; but Farnsworth looked dark and troubled, his glance going back and forth
from Alice to his commander, as if another word would cause him to do something terrible.

"I rather think I've heard all that I care to hear from you, Miss," Hamilton presently said.
"Captain Farnsworth, you will see that the prisoner is confined in the proper place, which,
I suggest to you, is not your sleeping quarters, sir."

"Colonel Hamilton," said Farnsworth in a husky voice, "I slept on the ground under a shed last
night in order that Miss Roussillon might be somewhat comfortable."

"Humph! Well, see that you do not do it again. This girl is guilty of harboring a spy and resisting
a lawful attempt of my guards to capture him. Confine her in the place prepared for prisoners
and see that she stays there until I am ready to fix her punishment."

"There is no place fit for a young girl to stay in," Farnsworth ventured. "She can have no
comfort or--"

"Take her along, sir; any place is good enough for her so long as she behaves like a--"

"Very well," Farnsworth bluntly interrupted, thus saving Alice the stroke of a vile comparison.
"Come with me, please, Miss Roussillon."

He pulled her toward the door, then dropped the arm he had grasped and murmured an apology.

She followed him out, holding her head high. No one looking on would have suspected that a
sinking sensation in her heart made it difficult for her to walk, or that her eyes, shining
like stars, were so inwardly clouded with distress that she saw her way but dimly.

It was a relief to Hamilton when Helm a few minutes later entered the room with something breezy
to say.

"What's up now, if I may ask?" the jolly American demanded. "What's this I hear about trouble
with the French women? Have they begun a revolution?"

"That elephant, Gaspard Roussillon, came back into town last night," said Hamilton sulkily.

"Well, he went out again, didn't he?"

"Yes, but--"

"Stepped on somebody's toe first, eh?"

"The guard tried to capture him, and that girl of his wounded Lieutenant Barlow in the neck
with a sword. Roussillon fought like a tiger and the men swear that the devil himself appeared
on the scene to help the Frenchman out."

"Moral: Be generous in your dealings with Frenchmen and Frenchwomen and so get the devil on
your side."

"I've got the girl a prisoner, and I swear to you that I'll have her shot this time if--"

"Why not shoot her yourself? You oughtn't to shirk a dirty job like that and force it upon
your men."

Hamilton laughed and elevated his shoulders as if to shake off an annoying load. Just then
a young officer with a white bandage around his neck entered and saluted. He was a small, soft-haired,
blue-eyed man of reckless bearing, with marks of dissipation sharply cut into his face. He
saluted, smiling self-consciously.

"Well, Barlow," said Hamilton, "the kitten scratched you, did she?"

"Yes, slightly, and I don't think I've been treated fairly in the matter, sir."

"How so?"

"I stood the brunt and now Captain Farnsworth gets the prize." He twisted his mouth in mock
expression of maudlin disappointment. "I'm always cheated out of the sweets. I never get anything
for gallant conduct on the field."

"Poor boy! It is a shame. But I say, Lieutenant, has Roussillon really escaped, or is he hidden
somewhere in town? Have you been careful?"

"Oh, it's the Indians. They all swear by these Frenchmen. You can't get any help from them
against a fellow like Roussillon. In fact they aid him; he's among them now."

"Moral again," Helm interposed; "keep on the good side of the French!"

"That's sensible talk, sir," assented Barlow.

"Bah!" exclaimed Hamilton. "You might as well talk of keeping on the good side of the American
traitors--a bloody murrain seize the whole race!"

"That's what I say," chimed in the Lieutenant, with a sly look at Helm.

"They have been telling me a cock-and-bull story concerning the affair at the Roussillon cabin,"
Hamilton said, changing his manner. "What is this about a disguised and wonderful man who rushed
in and upset the whole of you. I want no romancing; give me the facts."

Barlow's dissolute countenance became troubled.

"The facts," he said, speaking with serious deliberation, "are not clear. It was like a clap
of thunder, the way that man performed. As you say, he did fling the whole squad all of a heap,
and it was done that quickly," he snapped his thumb and finger demonstratively with a sharp
report; "nobody could understand it."

Hamilton looked at his subaltern with a smile of unlimited contempt and said:

"A pretty officer of His Majesty's army, you are, Lieutenant Barlow! First a slip of a girl
shows herself your superior with the sword and wounds you, then a single man wipes up the floor
of a house with you and your guard, depriving you at the same time of both vision and memory,
so that you cannot even describe your assailant!"

"He was dressed like a priest," muttered Barlow, evidently frightened at his commander's scathing
comment. "That was all there was to see."

"A priest! Some of the men say the devil. I wonder--" Hamilton hesitated and looked at the floor.

"This Father Beret, he is too old for such a thing, isn't he?"

"I have thought of him--it was like him--but he is, as you say, very old to be so tremendously
strong and active. Why, I tell you that men went from his hands against the walls and floor
as if shot out of a mortar. It was the strangest and most astounding thing I ever heard of."

A little later Barlow seized a favorable opportunity and withdrew. The conversation was not
to his liking.

Hamilton sent for Father Beret and had a long talk with him, but the old man looked so childishly
inoffensive in spirit and so collapsed physically that it seemed worse than foolishness to
accuse him of the exploit over which the entire garrison was wondering. Farnsworth sat by during
the interview. He looked the good priest curiously and critically over from head to foot, remembering,
but not mentioning, the most unclerical punch in the side received from that energetic right
arm now lying so flabbily across the old man's lap.

When the talk ended and Father Beret humbly took his leave, Hamilton turned to Farnsworth and said:

"What do you think of this affair? I have cross-questioned all the men who took part in it,
and every one of them says simply priest or devil. I think old Beret is both; but plainly he
couldn't hurt a chicken, you can see that at a glance."

Farnsworth smiled, rubbing his side reminiscently; but he shook his head.

"I'm sure it's puzzling, indeed."

Hamilton sat in thoughtful silence for a while, then abruptly changed the subject.

"I think, Captain, that you had better send out Lieutenant Barlow and some of the best woodsmen
to kill some game. We need fresh venison, and, by George! I'm not going to depend upon these
French traitors any longer. I have set my foot down; they've got to do better or take the consequences."
He paused for a breath, then added: "That girl has done too much to escape severest punishment.
The garrison will be demoralized if this thing goes on without an example of authority rigidly
enforced. I am resolved that there shall be a startling and effective public display of my
power to punish. She shot you; you seem to be glad of it, but it was a grave offence. She has
stabbed Barlow; that is another serious crime; but worst of all she aided a spy and resisted
arrest. She must be punished."

Farnsworth knew Hamilton's nature, and he now saw that Alice was in dreadful danger of death
or something even worse. Whenever his chief talked of discipline and the need of maintaining
his authority, there was little hope of softening his decisions. Moreover, the provocation
to apply extreme measures really seemed sufficient, regarded from a military point of view,
and Captain Farnsworth was himself, under ordinary circumstances, a disciplinarian of the strictest
class. The fascination, however, by which Alice held him overbore every other influence, and
his devotion to her loosened every other tie and obligation to a most dangerous extent. No
sooner had he left headquarters and given Barlow his instructions touching the hunting expedition,
than his mind began to wander amid visions and schemes by no means consistent with his military
obligations. In order to reflect undisturbed he went forth into the dreary, lane-like streets
of Vincennes and walked aimlessly here and there until he met Father Beret.

Farnsworth saluted the old man, and was passing him by, when seeing a sword in his hand, half
hidden in the folds of his worn and faded cassock, he turned and addressed him.

"Why are you armed this morning, Father?" he demanded very pleasantly. "Who is to suffer now?"

"I am not on the war-path, my son," replied the priest. "It is but a rapier that I am going
to clean of rust spots that are gathering on its blade."

"Is it yours, Father? Let me see it." He held out his hand.

"No, not mine."

Father Beret seemed not to notice Farnsworth's desire to handle the weapon, and the young man,
instead of repeating his words, reached farther, nearly grasping the scabbard.

"I cannot let you take it, my son," said Father Beret "You have its mate, that should satisfy you."

"No, Colonel Hamilton took it," Farnsworth quickly replied. "If I could I would gladly return
it to its owner. I am not a thief, Father, and I am ashamed of--of--what I did when I was drunk."

The priest looked sharply into Farnsworth's eyes and read there something that reassured him.
His long experience had rendered him adept at taking a man's value at a glance. He slightly
lifted his face and said: "Ah, but the poor little girl! why do you persecute her? She really
does not deserve it. She is a noble child. Give her back to her home and her people. Do not
soil and spoil her sweet life."

It was the sing-song voice used by Father Beret in his sermons and prayers; but something went
with it indescribably touching. Farnsworth felt a lump rise in his throat and his eyes were
ready to show tears. "Father," he said, with difficulty making his words distinct, "I would
not harm Miss Roussillon to save my own life, and I would do anything--" he paused slightly,
then added with passionate force; "I would do anything, no matter what, to save her from the
terrible thing that now threatens her."

Father Beret's countenance changed curiously as he gazed at the young man and said:

"If you really mean what you say, you can easily save her, my son."

"Father, by all that is holy, I mean just what I say."

"Swear not at all, my son, but give me your hand."

The two men stood with a tight grip between them and exchanged a long, steady, searching gaze.

A drizzling rain had begun to fall again, with a raw wind creeping from the west.

"Come with me to my house, my son," Father Beret presently added; and together they went, the
priest covering Alice's sword from the rain with the folds of his cassock.

CHAPTER XV

VIRTUE IN A LOCKET

Long-Hair stood not upon ceremony in conveying to Beverley the information that he was to run
the gauntlet, which, otherwise stated, meant that the Indians would form themselves in two
parallel lines facing each other about six feet apart, and that the prisoner would be expected
to run down the length of the space between, thus affording the warriors an opportunity, greatly
coveted and relished by their fiendish natures, to beat him cruelly during his flight. This
sort of thing was to the Indians, indeed, an exquisite amusement, as fascinating to them as
the theater is to more enlightened people. No sooner was it agreed upon that the entertainment
should again be undertaken than all the younger men began to scurry around getting everything
ready for it. Their faces glowed with a droll cruelty strange to see, and they further expressed
their lively expectations by playful yet curiously solemn antics.

