The Fairy Queen came close to me and peered over the edge of the paper.

"Look at the fairies," she said, pointing with a tiny indignant finger. "Look at them. They're
most dreadfully old-fashioned. Nobody in fairyland looks in the least like that now."

I looked. Certainly the little figures had rather an early-Victorian air about them.

"Of course we should never dream of being tremendously fashionable or anything of that kind.
I would not for one moment think of allowing any of my court-ladies to cut their hair short,
for instance, or to wear one of those foolish hobble skirts; but nobody, nobody could accuse
us of being dowdy. Now tell me, have you ever seen one of us looking like that, or like that?"

"But are you quite sure," I said, not without hesitation, for she was by way of being rather
an autocratic and imperious little person and I was the least little bit afraid of her--"are
you quite sure that they are fairies?"

"Of course they are," she replied quickly. "What else could they be? Naturally Mr. Punch would
have fairies all round him. He loves us. You have no idea how much we have in common."

I didn't reply at once. I was engaged in staring at the familiar design.

"They haven't any wings," I said, still rather doubtfully, "except this one at the bottom."

But the Fairy Queen was very decided indeed. "All fairies don't have wings," she said; "and
with regard to that particular one at the bottom," she glanced a little superciliously at the
buxom lady with the trumpet, "as a matter of fact, she isn't a fairy at all. I don't quite
know what she is, an angel perhaps, but not a fairy, certainly not a fairy. But the others
are, of course." She glanced at me a little defiantly with her bright eyes. "Surely, my dear,
I ought to know a fairy when I see one. At the time when these were done they were perfectly
all right; they only want bringing up to date, like the pictures inside, that's all. Now you
will see whether you can do anything, won't you?"

It was difficult to refuse, but I didn't feel very hopeful.

"I'll try," I said. "I'll write to the Editor; but I'm afraid it's not very likely that he
will do anything in the matter. You see the cover's been like that for years and years. Almost
ever since Punch began. It's--well, it's part of the Punch tradition. We all love it. Nobody
would like to see it altered; it wouldn't seem the same thing."

The Fairy Queen was busy with her cloak and didn't pay much attention to what I was saying,

"Won't you stay a little longer and have some tea or something?" I begged.

She shook her head.

"A chocolate?"

She smiled. "I can't resist a chocolate," she said. She took a very little one and nibbled
at it daintily, flitting about the room meanwhile and chattering away in the friendliest fashion
in her tiny high voice.

"I must go," she said at last. "I have enjoyed it so much. May I come again some day? I should
love to come again."...

I went out with her into the little lobby and down the stairs, and stood at the hall door to
watch her go.

"Now don't forget," were her last words as she floated out into the night. "Tell him, tell
him exactly what we really look like."

"I can't," I called after her desperately; "I can't."

But she had already disappeared in the soft haze. I went slowly up the stairs and back to my
quiet room and the dying fire.

"I can't," I said again. "I only wish I could."

R. F.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Bandsmen Wanted for Municipal Band. Solo Cornet and others. Work
    found for bricklayer, carpenter, painter and paperhanger."--Daily
    Paper.

With whose assistance we may expect some jazzling effects.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MURMANSK MOSQUITO.

My particular interest having been aroused by descriptions recently published in the English
Press of the Murmansk mosquito, I made a point, on my arrival in North Russia with the Relief
Force, of collecting further data from officers whose experience entitles them to speak with
authority upon the habits of the local fauna.

From them I have gathered some curious information which should interest even those whose enthusiasm
for the phenomena of natural history is normally but languid, and cannot fail to intrigue not
only the entomologist but also the big game hunter, who would find it well worth his while
to observe and study the tactics of this sagacious and formidable insect.

Judging from the evidence at my command the true Murmansk mosquito is considerably larger and
fiercer than the Archangel variety, owing no doubt to the genial influence of the Gulf Stream.
Both types are however sufficiently ferocious, and, save when rendered comatose by excess of
nutrition, will attack human beings without provocation. The female of the species, if disturbed
while accompanied by her young, will invariably charge with such fury that only by an exceptional
combination of skill and courage can she be driven off. The shrill and vibrating cry of the
Russian mosquito as it swoops to the attack is, I am assured, qualified to shake the fortitude
of even experienced troops.

So surprising are some of the current stories of the size, strength and agility of these dreaded
carnivora that one would suspect their veracity were they not vouched for by military and naval
officers, and supported by such concrete evidence as that of the local architecture. The houses
are almost universally constructed of substantial logs, undoubtedly for the reason that brickwork
would be more easily displaced by the furious assault of the mosquito, which usually hunts
in droves, packs or swarms, and has been known to surround and make concerted attacks, upon
buildings occupied by particularly well-nourished personnel.

As evidence of the determination of their attacks, veterans of this front have pointed out
to me, in the walls of local buildings, massive timbers which have been scarred and splintered
by the teeth and claws of these monsters, emboldened by hunger and incensed by resistance.

The peculiar ferocity of the mosquito of these high latitudes is, of course, accounted for
by the brevity of its actual life. Immured throughout the prolonged winter within its icy sarcophagus,
it is not released before the middle of June, while the premature severity of August rapidly
lowers its vitality. Such is its offensive spirit during the first relaxation of wintry rigour
that it is dangerous in the extreme for anyone to walk about alone, for naturally the mosquito
which the sunshine has just liberated, fasting and impatient, will make a determined effort
to partake of the first likely repast which presents itself. Single newly-thawed specimens
have been known to lie in ambush by frequented paths and fall upon lonely wayfarers with the
desperate courage of starvation. I am credibly informed that, if duty necessitates an unescorted
journey at this season, it is a wise precaution to provide oneself with several joints of reindeer
flesh, which, in the event of attack by mosquitoes, may be thrown to them and so effect at
least a temporary diversion.

