"Yes, the rats!" she echoed, and carried for a moment her eyes to his. Then she knelt on the
hearth, and uncovering the under side of the log, where a little fire still smouldered, she
fed it with two or three fir-cones, and, stooping low, blew steadily on them until they caught
fire and blazed. He stood looking down at her, and marvelled at the strength of mind that allowed
her to stoop to trifles, or to think of fires at such a time as this. He forgot that habit
is of all stays the strongest, and that to women a thousand trifles make up--God reward them
for it--the work of life: a work which instinct moves them to pursue, though the heavens fall.

Several hours had elapsed since he had entered hotfoot to see her; and the day was beginning
to wane. The flame of the blazing fir-cones, a hundred times reflected in the rows of pewter
plates and the surface of the old oaken dressers, left the corners of the room in shadow. Immediately
within the windows, indeed, the daylight held its own; but when she rose and turned to him
her back was towards the casement, and the firelight which lit up her face flickered uncertainly,
and left him in doubt whether she were moved or not.

"You have eaten nothing!" she said, while he stood pondering what she would say. "And it is
four o'clock! I am sorry!" Her tone, which took shame to herself, gave him a new surprise.

He stopped her as she turned to the dresser. "Your mother is better?" he said gently.

"She is herself now," she replied, with a slight quaver, and without looking at him. And she
went about her work.

Did she know? Did she understand? In his world was only one fact, in his mind only one tremendous
thought: the fact of their position, the thought of their isolation and peril. In her treatment
of Louis she had seemed to show knowledge and a comprehension as wide as his own. But if she
knew all, could she be as calm as she was? Could she go about her daily tasks? Could she cut
and lay and fetch with busy fingers, and all in silence?

He thought not; and though he longed to consult her, to assure her and comfort her, to tell
her that the very isolation, the very peril in which they stood were a happiness and a joy
to him, whatever the issue, because he shared them with her, he would not, by reason of that
doubt. He did not yet know the courage which underlies the gentlest natures: nor did he guess
that even as it was a joy to him to stand beside her in peril, so it was a joy to her, even
in that hour, to come and go for him, to cut his bread and lay for him, to draw his wine from
the great cask under the stairs, and pour for him in the tall horn mug.

And little said. By him, because he shrank from opening her eyes to the danger of their position;
by her, because her mind was full and she could not trust herself to speak calmly. But he knew
that she, too, had fasted since morning, and he made her eat with him: and it was in the thoughts
of each that they had never eaten together before. For commonly Anne took her meal with her
mother, or ate as the women of her time often ate, standing, alone, when others had finished.
There are moments when the simplest things put on the beauty and significance of rites, and
this first eating together at the small table on the fire-lit hearth was one of such moments.
He saw that she did eat; and this care for her, and the reverence of his manner, so moved her,
that at last tears rose and choked her, and to give her time and to hide his own feelings,
he stood up and affected to get something from the fireside.

Before he turned again, the latch rattled and the door flew open. The freezing draught that
entered, arrested him between the table and the fire. The intruder was Grio. He stood an instant
scowling on them, then he entered and closed the door. He eyed the two with a sneering laugh,
and, turning, flung his cloak on a chair. It was ill-aimed and fell to the ground.

"Why the devil don't you light?" he cried violently. "Eh?" He added something in which the
words "Old hag's devilry!" were alone audible. "Do you hear?" he continued, more coherently.
"Why don't you light? What black games are you playing, I'd like to know? I want my things!"

Claude's fingers tingled, but danger and responsibility are sure teachers, and he restrained
himself. Neither of them answered, but Anne fetched the lamp, and kindling a splinter of wood
lighted it, and placed it on the table. Then bringing the Spaniard's rushlight from the three
or four that stood on the dresser, she lighted it and held it out to him.

"Set it down!" he said, with tipsy insolence. He was not quite sober. "Set it down! I am not
going to--hic!--risk my salvation! Avaunt, Satan! It is possible to palm the evil one, like
a card I am told, and--hic!--soul out, devil in, all lost as easy as candle goes out!"

He had taken his candle with an unsteady hand, and unconsciously had blown it out himself.
She restrained Claude by a look, and patiently taking the rushlight from Grio, she re-lit it
and set it on the table for him to take.

"As a candle goes out!" he repeated, eyeing it with drunken wisdom. "Candle out, devil in,
soul lost, there you have it in three words--clever as any of your long-winded preachers! But
I want my things. I am going before it is too late. Advise you to go too, young man," he hiccoughed,
"before you are overlooked. She is a witch! She's the devil's mark on her, I tell you! I'd
like to have the finding it!" And with an ugly leer he advanced a step as if he would lay hands
on her.

She shrank back, and Claude's eyes blazed. Fortunately, the bully's mind passed to the first
object of his coming; or it may be that he was sober enough to read a warning in the younger
man's face.

"Oh! time enough," he said. "You are not so nice always, I'll be bound. And things come--hic!--to
those who wait! I don't belong to your Sabbaths, I suppose, or you'd be freer! But I want my
things, and I am going to have them! I defy thee, Satan! And all thy works!"

Still growling under his breath he burst open the staircase door, and stumbled noisily upwards,
the light wavering in his hand. Anne's eyes followed him; she had advanced to the foot of the
stairs, and Claude understood the apprehension that held her. But the sounds did not penetrate
to the room on the upper floor, or Madame Royaume did not take the alarm; perhaps she slept.
And after assuring herself that Grio had entered his room the girl returned to the table.

The Spaniard had spoken with brutal plainness; it was no longer possible to ignore what he
had said, or to lie under any illusion as to the girl's knowledge of her peril. Claude's eyes
met hers: and for a moment the anguished human soul peered through the mask of constancy, for
a moment the woman in her, shrinking from the ordeal and the fire, from shame and death, thrust
aside the veil, and held out quivering, piteous hands to him. But it was for a moment only.
Before he could speak she was brave as before, quiet as he had ever seen her, patient, mistress
of herself. "It is as you said," she muttered, smiling wanly, "the rats are leaving us."

"Vermin!" he whispered. He could not trust himself to say more. His voice shook, his eyes were
full.

"They have not lost time," she continued in a low tone. She did not cease to listen, nor did
her eyes leave the staircase door. "Louis first, and now Grio. How has it reached them so quickly,
do you think?"

"Louis is hand in glove with the Syndic," he murmured.

"And Grio?"

"With Basterga."

She nodded. "What do you think they will do--first?" she whispered. And again--it went to his
heart--the woman's face, fear-drawn, showed as it were beneath the mask with which love and
faith and a noble resignation had armed her. "Do you think they will denounce us at once?"

He shook his head in sheer inability to foresee; and then, seeing that she continued to look
anxiously for his answer, that answer which he knew to be of no value, for minute by minute
the sense of his helplessness was weighing upon him, "It may be," he muttered. "God knows.
When Grio is gone we will talk about it."

She began, but always with a listening ear and an eye to the open door, to remove from the
table the remains of their meal. Midway in her task, she glanced askance at the window, under
the impression that some one was looking through it; and in any case now the lamp was lit it
exposed them to the curiosity of the rampart. She was going to close the shutters when Claude
interposed, raised the heavy shutters and bolted and barred them. He was turning from them
when Grio's step was heard descending.

Strange to say the Spaniard's first glance was at the windows, and he looked genuinely taken
aback when he saw that they were closed. "Why the devil did you shut?" he exclaimed, in a rage;
and passing Anne with a sidelong movement, he flung a heavy bundle on the floor by the door.
As he turned to ascend again he met her eyes, and backing from her he made with two of his
fingers the ancient sign which southern people still use to ward off the evil eye. Then, half
shamefacedly, half recklessly, he blundered upstairs again. A moment, and he came stumbling
down; but this time he was careful to keep the great bundle he bore between himself and her
eyes, until he had got the door open.

That precaution taken, as if he thought the free cold air which entered would protect him from
spells, he showed himself at his ease, threw down his bundle and faced her with an air of bravado.

"I need not have feared," he said with a tipsy grin, "but I had forgotten what I carry. I have
a hocus-pocus here "--he touched his breast--"written by a wise man in Ravenna, and sealed
with a dead Goth's hand, that is proof against devil or dam! And I defy thee, mistress."

"Why?" she cried. "Why?" And the note of indignation in her voice, the passionate challenge
of her eyes, enforced the question. In the human mind is a desire for justice that will not
be denied; and even from this drunken ruffian a sudden impulse bade her demand it. "Why should
you defy me or fear me? What have I done to you, what have I done to any one," she continued,
with noble resentment, "that you should spread this of me? You have eaten and drunk at my hand
a hundred times; have I poisoned or injured you? I have looked at you a hundred times; have
I overlooked you? You have lain down under this roof by night a hundred times; have I harmed
you sleeping or waking, full moon or no moon?"

For answer he leered at her slyly. "Not a whit," he said. "No."

"No?" Her colour rose.

"No; but you see"--with a grin--"it never leaves me, my girl." He touched his breast. "While
I wear that I am safe."

She gasped. "Do you mean that I----"

"I do not know what you would have done--but for that!" he retorted. "Maimed me or wizened
me, perhaps! Or, may be, made me waste away as you did the child that died three doors away
last Sunday!"

Her face changed slowly. Prepared as she had been for the worst by many an hour of vigil beside
her mother's bed, the horror of this precise accusation--and such an accusation--overcame her.
"What?" she cried. "You dare to say that I--that I----" She could not finish.

But her eyes lightened, her form dilated with passion; and tipsy, ignorant, brutish as he was,
the Spaniard could not be blind to the indignation, the resentment, the very wonder which stopped
her breath and choked her utterance. At the sight some touch of shame, some touch of pity,
made itself felt in the dull recesses even of that brain. "I don't say it," he muttered awkwardly.
"It is what they are saying in the street."

"In the street?"

"Ay, where else?" He knew who said it, for he knew whence his orders came: but he was not going
to tell her. Yet the spark of kindliness which she had kindled still lived--how could it be
otherwise in presence of her youth and gentleness? "If you'll take my advice," he continued
roughly, "you'll not show yourself in the streets unless you wish to be mishandled, my girl.
It will be time enough when the time comes. Even now, if you were to leave your old witch of
a mother and get good protection, there is no knowing but you might be got clear! You are a
fair bit of red and white," with a grin. "And it is not far to Savoy! Will you come if I risk it?"

A gesture, half refusal, half loathing, answered him.

"Oh, very well!" he said. The short-lived fit of pity passed from him; he scowled. "You'll
think differently when they have the handling of you. I'm glad to be going, for where there's
one fire there are apt to be more; and I am a Christian, no matter who's not! Let who will
burn, I'll not!"

He picked up one bundle and, carrying it out, raised his voice. A man, who had shrunk, it seemed,
from entering the house, showed his face in the light which streamed from the door. To this
fellow he gave the bundle, and shouldering the other, he went heavily out, leaving the door
wide open behind him.

Claude strode to it and closed it; but not so quickly that he had not a glimpse of three or
four pairs of eyes staring in out of the darkness; eyes so curious, so fearful, so quickly
and noiselessly withdrawn--for even while he looked, they were gone--that he went back to the
hearth with a shiver of apprehension.

Fortunately, she had not seen them. She stood where he had left her, in the same attitude of
amazement into which Grio's accusation had cast her. As she met his gaze--then, at last, she
melted. The lamplight showed her eyes brimming over with tears; her lips quivered, her breast
heaved under the storm of resentment.

"How dare they say it?" she cried. "How dare they? That I would harm a child? A child?" And,
unable to go on, she held out protesting hands to him. "And my mother? My mother, who never
injured any one or harmed a hair of any one's head! That she--that they should say that of
her! That they should set that to her! But I will go this instant," impetuously, "to the child's
mother. She will hear me. She will know and believe me. A mother? Yes, I will go to her!"

"Not now," he said. "Not now, Anne!"

"Yes, now," she persisted, deaf to his voice. She snatched up her hood from the ground on which
it had fallen, and began to put it on.

He seized her arm. "No, not now," he said firmly. "You shall not go now. Wait until daylight.
She will listen to you more coolly then."

She resisted him. "Why?" she said. "Why?"

"People fancy things at night," he urged. "I know it is so. If she saw you enter out of the
darkness"--the girl with her burning eyes, her wet cheeks, her disordered hair looked wild
enough--"she might refuse to believe you. Besides----"

"What?"

"I will not have you go now," he said firmly. That instant it had flashed upon him that one
of the faces he had seen outside was the face of the dead child's mother. "I will not let you
go," he repeated. "Go in the daylight. Go to-morrow morning. Go then, if you will!" He did
not choose to tell her that he feared for her instant safety if she went now; that, if he had
his will, the streets would see her no more for many a day.

She gave way. She took off her hood, and laid it on the table. But for several minutes she
stood, brooding darkly and stormily, her hands fingering the strings. To foresee is not always
to be forearmed. She had lived for months in daily and hourly expectation of the blow which
had fallen; but not the more easily for that could she brook the concrete charge. Her heart
burned, her soul was on fire. Justice, give us justice though the heavens fall, is an instinct
planted deep in man's nature! Of the Mysterious Passion of our Lord our finite minds find no
part worse than the anguish of innocence condemned. A child? She to hurt a child? And her mother?
Her mother, so harmless, so ignorant, so tormented! She to hurt a child?

After a time, nevertheless, the storm began to subside. But with it died the hope which is
inherent in revolt; in proportion as she grew more calm the forlornness of her situation rose
more clearly before her. At last that had happened which she had so long expected to happen.
The thing was known. Soon the full consequences would be upon her, the consequences on which
she dared not dwell. Shudderingly she tried to close her eyes to the things that might lie
before her, to the things at which Grio had hinted, the things of which she had lain thinking--even
while they were distant and uncertain--through many a night of bitter fear and fevered anticipation.

They were at hand now, and though she averted her thoughts, she knew it. But the wind is tempered
to the shorn. Even as the prospect of future ill can dominate the present, embitter the sweetest
cup, and render thorny the softest bed, so, sometimes, present good has the power to obscure
the future evil. As Anne sank back on the settle, her trembling limbs almost declining to bear
her, her eyes fell on her companion. Failing to rouse her, he had seated himself on the other
side of the hearth, his elbows on his knees, his chin on his hands, in an attitude of deep
thought. And little by little, as she looked at him, her cheeks grew, if not red, less pale,
her eyes lost their tense and hopeless gaze. She heaved a quivering sigh, and slowly carried
her look round the room.

Its homely comfort, augmented by the hour and the firelight, seemed to lap them round. The
door was locked, the shutters were closed, the lamp burned cheerfully. And he sat opposite--sat
as if they had been long married. The colour grew deeper in her face as she gazed; she breathed
more quickly; her eyes shone. What evil cannot be softened, what misfortune cannot be lightened
to a woman by the knowledge that she is loved by the man she loves? That where all have fled,
he remains, and that neither fear of death nor word of man can keep him from her side?

He looked up in the end, and caught the look on her face, the look that a woman bestows on
one man only in her life. In a moment he was on his knees beside her, holding her hands, covering
them with kisses, vowing to save her, to save her--or to die with her!

CHAPTER XX.

IN THE DARKENED ROOM.

Claude flung the cloak from his head and shoulders, and sat up. It was morning--morning, after
that long, dear sitting together--and he stared confusedly about him. He had been dreaming;
all night he had slept uneasily. But the cry that had roused him, the cry that had started
that quick beating of the heart, the cry that still rang in his waking ears and frightened
him, was no dream.

As he rose to his feet, his senses began to take in the scene; he remembered what had happened
and where he was. The shutters were lowered and open. The cold grey light of the early morning
at this deadest season of the year fell cheerlessly on the living-room; in which for the greater
safety of the house he had insisted on passing the night. Anne, whose daily task it was to
open the shutters, had been down then: she must have been down, or whence the pile of fresh
cones and splinters that crackled, and spirted flame about the turned log. Perhaps it was her
mother's cry that had roused him; and she had re-ascended to her room.

He strode to the staircase door, opened it softly and listened. No, all was silent above; and
then a new notion struck him, and he glanced round. Her hood was gone. It was not on the table
on which he had seen it last night.

It was so unlikely, however, that she had gone out without telling him, that he dismissed the
notion; and, something recovered from the strange agitation into which the cry had cast him,
he yawned. He returned to the hearth and knelt and re-arranged the sticks so that the air might
have freer access to the fire. Presently he would draw the water for her, and fill the great
kettle, and sweep the floor. The future might be gloomy, the prospect might lower, but the
present was not without its pleasures.

All his life his slowness to guess the truth on this occasion was a puzzle to him. For the
materials were his. Slowly, gradually, as he crouched sleepily before the fire, it grew upon
him that there was a noise in the air; a confused sound, not of one cry, but of many, that
came from the street, from the rampart. A noise, now swelling a little, now sinking a little,
that seemed as he listened not so distant as it had sounded a while ago. Not distant at all,
indeed; quite close--now! A sound of rushing water, rather soothing; or, as it swelled, a sound
of a crowd, a gibing, mocking crowd. Yes, a crowd. And then in one instant the change was wrought.

He was on his feet; he was at the door. He, who a moment before had nodded over the fire, watching
the flames grow, was transformed in five seconds into a furious man, tugging at the door, wrestling
madly with the unyielding oak. Wrestling, and still the noise rose! And still he strained in
vain, back and sinew, strained until with a cry of despair he found that he could not win.
The door was locked, the key was gone! He was a prisoner!

And still the noise that maddened him, rose. He sprang to the right-hand window, the window
nearest the commotion. He tore open a panel of the small leaded panes, and thrust his head
between the bars. He saw a crowd; for an instant, in the heart of the crowd and raised above
it, he saw an uplifted arm and a white woman's face from which blood was flowing. He drew in
his head, and laid his hands to one of the bars and flung his weight this way and that, flung
it desperately, heedless of injury. But in vain. The lead that soldered the bar into the strong
stone mullion held, and would have held against the strength of four. With heaving breast,
and hands from which the blood was starting, he stood back, glared round him, then with a cry
flung himself upon the other window, tore it open and seized a bar--the middle one of the three.
It was loose he remembered. God! why had he not thought of it before? Why had he wasted time?

He wasted no more, with those shouts of cruel glee in his ears. The bar came out in his hands.
He thrust himself feet first through the aperture. Slight as he was, it was small for him,
and he stuck fast at the hips, and had to turn on his side. The rough edges of the bars scraped
the skin, but he was through, and had dropped to his feet, the bar which he had plucked out
still in his hands. For a fraction of a second, as he alighted, his eyes took in the crowd,
and the girl at bay against the wall. She was raised a little above her tormentors by the steps
on which she had taken refuge.

On one side her hair hung loose, and the cheek beneath it was cut and bleeding, giving her
a piteous and tragic aspect. Four out of five of her assailants were women; one of these had
torn her face with her nails. Streaks of mud were mingled with the blood which ran down her
neck; and even as Claude recovered himself after the drop from the window, a missile, eluding
the bent arm with which she strove to shield her face, struck and bespattered her throat where
the collar of her frock had been torn open--perhaps by the same rough clutch which had dragged
down her hair. The ring about her--like all crowds in the beginning--were strangely silent;
but a yell of derision greeted this success, and a stone flew, narrowly missing her, and another,
and another. A woman, holding a heavy Bible after the fashion of a shield, was stooping and
striking at her knees with a stick, striving to bring her to the ground; and with the cruel
laughter that hailed the hag's ungainly efforts were mingled other and more ugly sounds, low
curses, execrations, and always one fatal word, "Witch! Witch!"--fatal word spat at her by
writhing mouths, hissed at her by pale lips, tossed broadcast on the cold morning wind, to
breed wherever it flew fear and hate and suspicion. For, even while they mocked her they feared
her, and shielded themselves against her power with signs and crossings and the Holy Book.

To all, curse and blow and threat, she had only one word. Striving patiently to shield her
face, "Let me go!" she wailed pitifully. "Let me go! Let me go!" Strange to say, she cried
even that but softly; as who should say, "If you will not, kill me quietly, kill me without
noise!" Ay, even then, with the blood running down her face, and with those eyes more cruel
than men's eyes hemming her in, she was thinking of the mother whom she had sheltered so long.

"Let me go! Let me go!" she repeated.

"Witch, you shall go!" they answered ruthlessly. "To hell!"

"Ay, with her dam! To the water with her! To the water!"

"Look for the devil's mark! Search her! Again, Martha! Bring her down! Bring her down, and
we'll soon see whether----"

Then he reached them. The man, one of the few present, who had bidden them search her fell
headlong on his face in the gutter, struck behind as by a thunder-bolt. The great Bible flew
one way, the hag's stick flew another--and in its flight felled a second woman. In a twinkling
Claude was on the steps, and in the heart of the crowd stood two people, not one; in a twinkling
his arm was round the girl, his pale, furious face confronted her tormentors, his blazing eyes
beat down theirs! More than all, his iron bar, brandished recklessly this way and that, threatened
the brains of the man or the woman who was bold enough to withstand him.

For he was beside himself with rage. He learned in that moment that he was of those who fight
with joy and rejoicing, and laugh where others shake. The sight of that white, bleeding face,
of that hanging hair, of that suppliant arm, above all, the sound of that patient "Let me go!
Let me go!" that expected nothing and hoped nothing, had turned his blood to fire. The more
numerous his opponents--if they were men--the better he would be pleased; and if they were
women, such women, unsexed by hate and superstition, as he saw before him, women looking a
millionfold more like witches than the girl they accused, the worse for them! His arm would
not falter!

It seemed of steel indeed. The bar quivered like a reed in his grasp, his eyes darted hither
and thither, he stood an inch taller than at other times. He was like the war-horse that sniffs
the battle.

And yet he was cool after a fashion. He must get her home, and to do so he must not lose a
moment. The vantage of the steps on which they stood, raised a hand's breath above their assailants,
was a thing to be weighed; but it would not serve them if these cursed women mustered, and
the cowardly crew before him throve to a mob. He must home with her. But the door was locked,
and she could only go in as he had come out. Still, she must go.

He thought all this between one stride and another--and other thoughts thick as leaves falling
in a wind. Then, "Fools!" he thundered, and had her down the steps, and was dragging her towards
her door before they awoke from their surprise, or thought of attacking him. The woman with
the big Bible had had her fill--though he had not struck her but her stick--and sat where she
had fallen in the mud. The other woman hugged herself in pain. The man was in no hurry to be
up, having once felt Claude's knee in the small of his back. For a few seconds no one moved;
and when they recovered themselves he was half-way to the Royaumes' door.

They snatched up mud, then, and flung it after the pair with shrill execrations. And the woman
who had picked up the stick hurled it in a frenzy after them, but wide of the mark. A dozen
stones fell round them, and the cry of "The Witch! The Witch!"--cry so ominous, so cruel, cry
fraught with death for so many poor creatures--followed hard on them. But they were within
five paces of the door now, and if he could lift her to the window----

"The key," she murmured in his ear. "The key is in the lock!"

She had her wits, too, then, and her courage! He felt a glow of pride, his arm pressed her
more closely to him. "Unlock it!" he answered, and leaving her to it, having now no fear that
she would faint or fall, he turned on the rabble with his bar.

But they were for words, not blows, a rabble of cowards and women. They turned tail with screams
and fled to a distance, more than one falling in the sudden volte-face. He made no attempt
to pursue them along the rampart, but looked behind him, and found that she had opened the
door. She had taken out the key, and was waiting for him to enter.

He went up the steps, entered, and she closed the door quickly. It shut out in a moment the
hootings of the returning women. While she locked it on the inside, he raised the bars and
slid them into their places. Then, not till then, he turned to her.

Her face averted, she was staunching the blood which trickled from her cheek. "It was the child's
mother!" she faltered, a sob in her voice. "I went to her. I thought--that she would believe.
Get me some water, please! I must go upstairs. My mother will be frightened."

He was astonished: on fire himself, with every pulse beating madly, he was prepared for her
to faint, to fall, to fling herself into his arms in gratitude; prepared for everything but
this self-forgetfulness. "Water?" he said doubtfully, "but had you not better--take some wine,
Anne?"

"To wash! To wash!" she replied sharply, almost angrily. "How can I go to her in this state?
And do you shut the shutters."

A stone had that moment passed through a pane of one of the windows. The rout of women were
gathering before the house; the step she advised was plainly necessary. Fortunately the Royaumes'
house, like all in the Corraterie--which formed an inner line of defence pierced by the Tertasse
gate--had outside shutters of massive thickness, capable of being lowered from within. He closed
these in haste and found, when he turned from the task and looked for her--a small round hole
in each shutter made things dimly visible--that she was gone to soothe her mother.

He could not but love her the more for it. He could not but respect her the more for her courage,
for her thoughtfulness, her self-denial. But when the heart is full and would unburden itself,
when the brain teems with pent-up thoughts, when the excitement of action and of peril wanes
and the mind would fain tell and hear and compare and remember--then to be alone, to be solitary,
is to sink below one's self.

For a time, while his pulses still beat high, while the heat of battle still wrought in him,
and the noise without continued, and there seemed a prospect of things to be done, he stood
up against this. Thump! Thump! They were stoning the shutters. Let them! He placed the settle
across the hearth, and in this way cut off the firelight that might have betrayed those in
the room to eyes peeping through the holes. By-and-by the shrill vixenish cries rose louder,
he caught the sound of voices in altercation, and of hoarse orders: and slowly and reluctantly
the babel seemed to pass away. An anxious moment followed: fearfully he listened for the knock
of the law, the official summons which must make all his efforts useless. But it did not come.

It was when the silence which ensued had lasted some minutes that the strangeness and aloofness
of his position in this darkened room began to weigh on his spirits. His eyes had adapted themselves
to the gloom, and he could make out the shapes of the furniture. But it was morning! It was
day! Outside, the city was beginning to go about its ordinary work, its ordinary life. The
streets were filling, the classes were mustering. And he sat here in the dark! The longer he
stared into the strange, depressing gloom, the farther he seemed from life; the more solitary,
the more hopeless, the more ominous seemed the position.

Alone with two women whom the worst of fates threatened! Whose pains and ultimate lot the brawl
in which he had taken part foreshadowed too clearly. For thus and with as little cause perished
in those days thousands of the helpless and the friendless. Alone with these two, under the
roof from which all others had fled, barred with them behind the gloomy shutters until the
hour came, and their fellows, shuddering, cast them out--what chance had he of escaping their lot?

Or what desire to escape it? None, he told himself. None! But he who fights best when blows
are to be struck and things can be done finds it hard to sit still where it is the inevitable
that must be faced. And while Claude told himself that he had no desire to escape, since escape
for her was impossible, his mind sought desperately the means of saving all. The frontier lay
but a league away. Conceivably they might lower themselves from the wall by night; conceivably
his strength might avail to carry her mother to the frontier. But, alas! the crime of witchcraft
knew no frontier; the reputation of a witch once thrown abroad, flew fast as the swiftest horse.
Before they had been three days in Savoy, the women would be reported, seized and examined;
and their fate at Faucigny or Bonneville would be no less tragic than in the Bourg du Four
of Geneva.

Yet, something must be done, something could surely be done. But what? The bravest caught in
a net struggles the most desperately, and involves himself the most hopelessly. And Claude
felt himself caught in a net. He felt the deadly meshes cling about his limbs, the ropes fetter
and benumb him. From the sunshine of youth, from freedom, from a life without care, he had
passed in a few days into the grip of this [Greek: anagkê], this dire necessity, this dark
ante-chamber of death. Was it wonderful that for a moment, recognising the sacrifice he was
called upon to make and its inefficacy to save, he rebelled against the love that had drawn
him to this fate, that had led him to this, that in others' eyes had ruined him? Ay, but for
a moment only. Then with a heart bursting with pity for her, with love for her, he was himself.
If it must be, it must be. The prospect was dark as the room in which he stood, confined and
stifling, sordid and shameful; the end one which would make his name a marvel and an astonishment.
But the prospect and the end were hers too; they would face them together. Haply he might spare
her some one pang, haply he might give her some one moment of happiness, the support of one
at least who knew her pure and spotless. And while he thought of it--surprise of surprises--he
bowed his head on his folded arms and wept.

Not in pity for himself, but for her. It was the thought of her gentleness, her loving nature,
her harmlessness--and the end this, the reward this--which overcame him; which swelled his
breast until only tears could relieve it. He saw her as a dove struggling in cruel hands; and
the pity which, had there been chance or hope, or any to smite, would have been rage, could
find no other outlet. He wept like a woman; but it was for her.

And she, who had descended unheard, and stood even now at the door, with a something almost
divine in her face--a something that was neither love nor compassion, maid's fancy nor mother's
care, but a mingling of all these, saw. And her heart bled for him; her arms in fancy went
round him, in fancy his head was on her breast, she comforted him. She, who a moment before
had almost sunk down on the stairs, worn out by her sufferings and the strain of hiding them
from her mother's eyes, forgot her weakness in thought for him.

She had no contempt for his tears. She had seen him stand between herself and her tormentors,
she had seen the flash of his eye, heard his voice, knew him brave. But the fate, for which
long thought and hours on her knees had prepared her--so that it seemed but a black and bitter
passage with peace beyond--appalled her for him; and might well appal him. The courage of men
is active, of women passive; with a woman's instinct she knew this, allowed for it, and allowed,
too, for another thing--that he was fasting.

When he looked up, startled by the tinkle of pewter and the rustle of her skirt, she was kneeling
between the settle and the fire, preparing food. He flattered himself that in the dark she
had not seen him, and when he had regained his self-control he stepped to the settle-back and
looked over it.

"You did not see me?" he said.

She did not answer at once, but finished what she was doing. Then she stood up and handed him
a bowl. "The bread is on the table," she said, indicating it. She was a woman, and, dark as
it was, she kept the disfigured cheek turned from him.

He would have replied, but she made a sign to him to eat, and, seating herself on a stool in
the corner with her plate on her lap, she set him an example. Apart from her weary attitude,
and the droop of her head, he might have deemed the scene in which they had taken part a figment
of his brain. But round them was the gloom of the closed room!

"You did not see me?" he repeated presently.

She stood up. "I would I had never seen you!" she cried; and her anguished tone bore witness
to the truth of her words. "It is the worst, it is the bitterest thing of all! of all!" she
repeated. The settle was between them, and she rested her hands on the back of it. He stooped,
and, in the darkness, covered them with kisses, while his breast heaved with the swell of the
storm which her entrance had cut short. "For all but that I was prepared," she continued; "I
was ready. I have seen for weeks the hopelessness of it, the certain end, the fate before us.
I have counted the cost, and I have learned to look beyond for--for all we desire. It is a
sharp passage, and peace. But you"--her voice rested on the same tragic note of monotony--"are
outside the sum, and spoil all. A little suffering will kill my mother, a little, a very little
fear. I doubt if she will live to be taken hence. And I--I can suffer. I have known all, I
have foreseen all--long! I have learned to think of it, and I can learn by God's help to bear
it! And in a little while, a very little while, it will be over, and I shall be at rest. But
you--you, my love----"

Her voice broke, her head sunk forward. His lips met hers in a first kiss; a kiss, salted by
the tears that ran unchecked down his face. For a long minute there was silence in the room,
a silence broken only by the low, inarticulate murmur of his love--love whispered brokenly
on her tear-wet lips, on her cold, closed eyelids. She made no attempt to withdraw her face,
and presently the murmur grew to words of defiance, of love that mocked at peril, mocked at
shame, mocked at death, having assurance of its own, having assurance of her.

They fell on her ears as warm thaw-rain on frozen sward; and slowly into the pallor of her
face, the whiteness of her closed eyelids, crept a tender blush. Strange that for a few brief
moments they were happy; strange, proof marvellous of the dominance of the inner life over
the outer, of love over death.