Seeing thus that the assumed distinction between scientific knowledge and common knowledge
is not logically justifiable; and yet feeling, as we must, that however impossible it may be
to draw a line between them, the two are not practically identical; there arises the question--What
is the relationship that exists between them? A partial answer to this question may be drawn
from the illustrations just given. On reconsidering them, it will be observed that those portions
of ordinary knowledge which are identical in character with scientific knowledge, comprehend
only such combinations of phenomena as are directly cognisable by the senses, and are of simple,
invariable nature. That the smoke from a fire which she is lighting will ascend, and that the
fire will presently boil water, are previsions which the servant-girl makes equally well with
the most learned physicist; they are equally certain, equally exact with his; but they are
previsions concerning phenomena in constant and direct relation--phenomena that follow visibly
and immediately after their antecedents--phenomena of which the causation is neither remote
nor obscure--phenomena which may be predicted by the simplest possible act of reasoning.

If, now, we pass to the previsions constituting what is commonly known as science--that an
eclipse of the moon will happen at a specified time; and when a barometer is taken to the top
of a mountain of known height, the mercurial column will descend a stated number of inches;
that the poles of a galvanic battery immersed in water will give off, the one an inflammable
and the other an inflaming gas, in definite ratio--we perceive that the relations involved
are not of a kind habitually presented to our senses; that they depend, some of them, upon
special combinations of causes; and that in some of them the connection between antecedents
and consequents is established only by an elaborate series of inferences. The broad distinction,
therefore, between the two orders of knowledge, is not in their nature, but in their remoteness
from perception.

If we regard the cases in their most general aspect, we see that the labourer, who, on hearing
certain notes in the adjacent hedge, can describe the particular form and colours of the bird
making them; and the astronomer, who, having calculated a transit of Venus, can delineate the
black spot entering on the sun's disc, as it will appear through the telescope, at a specified
hour; do essentially the same thing. Each knows that on fulfilling the requisite conditions,
he shall have a preconceived impression--that after a definite series of actions will come
a group of sensations of a foreknown kind. The difference, then, is not in the fundamental
character of the mental acts; or in the correctness of the previsions accomplished by them;
but in the complexity of the processes required to achieve the previsions. Much of our commonest
knowledge is, as far as it goes, rigorously precise. Science does not increase this precision;
cannot transcend it. What then does it do? It reduces other knowledge to the same degree of
precision. That certainty which direct perception gives us respecting coexistences and sequences
of the simplest and most accessible kind, science gives us respecting coexistences and sequences,
complex in their dependencies or inaccessible to immediate observation. In brief, regarded
from this point of view, science may be called an extension of the perceptions by means of
reasoning.

On further considering the matter, however, it will perhaps be felt that this definition does
not express the whole fact--that inseparable as science may be from common knowledge, and completely
as we may fill up the gap between the simplest previsions of the child and the most recondite
ones of the natural philosopher, by interposing a series of previsions in which the complexity
of reasoning involved is greater and greater, there is yet a difference between the two beyond
that which is here described. And this is true. But the difference is still not such as enables
us to draw the assumed line of demarcation. It is a difference not between common knowledge
and scientific knowledge; but between the successive phases of science itself, or knowledge
itself--whichever we choose to call it. In its earlier phases science attains only to certainty
of foreknowledge; in its later phases it further attains to completeness. We begin by discovering
a relation: we end by discovering the relation. Our first achievement is to foretell the kind
of phenomenon which will occur under specific conditions: our last achievement is to foretell
not only the kind but the amount. Or, to reduce the proposition to its most definite form--undeveloped
science is qualitative prevision: developed science is quantitative prevision.

This will at once be perceived to express the remaining distinction between the lower and the
higher stages of positive knowledge. The prediction that a piece of lead will take more force
to lift it than a piece of wood of equal size, exhibits certainty, but not completeness, of
foresight. The kind of effect in which the one body will exceed the other is foreseen; but
not the amount by which it will exceed. There is qualitative prevision only. On the other hand,
the prediction that at a stated time two particular planets will be in conjunction; that by
means of a lever having arms in a given ratio, a known force will raise just so many pounds;
that to decompose a specified quantity of sulphate of iron by carbonate of soda will require
so many grains--these predictions exhibit foreknowledge, not only of the nature of the effects
to be produced, but of the magnitude, either of the effects themselves, of the agencies producing
them, or of the distance in time or space at which they will be produced. There is not only
qualitative but quantitative prevision.

And this is the unexpressed difference which leads us to consider certain orders of knowledge
as especially scientific when contrasted with knowledge in general. Are the phenomena measurable?
is the test which we unconsciously employ. Space is measurable: hence Geometry. Force and space
are measureable: hence Statics. Time, force, and space are measureable: hence Dynamics. The
invention of the barometer enabled men to extend the principles of mechanics to the atmosphere;
and Aerostatics existed. When a thermometer was devised there arose a science of heat, which
was before impossible. Such of our sensations as we have not yet found modes of measuring do
not originate sciences. We have no science of smells; nor have we one of tastes. We have a
science of the relations of sounds differing in pitch, because we have discovered a way to
measure them; but we have no science of sounds in respect to their loudness or their timbre,
because we have got no measures of loudness and timbre.

Obviously it is this reduction of the sensible phenomena it represents, to relations of magnitude,
which gives to any division of knowledge its especially scientific character. Originally men's
knowledge of weights and forces was in the same condition as their knowledge of smells and
tastes is now--a knowledge not extending beyond that given by the unaided sensations; and it
remained so until weighing instruments and dynamometers were invented. Before there were hour-glasses
and clepsydras, most phenomena could be estimated as to their durations and intervals, with
no greater precision than degrees of hardness can be estimated by the fingers. Until a thermometric
scale was contrived, men's judgments respecting relative amounts of heat stood on the same
footing with their present judgments respecting relative amounts of sound. And as in these
initial stages, with no aids to observation, only the roughest comparisons of cases could be
made, and only the most marked differences perceived; it is obvious that only the most simple
laws of dependence could be ascertained--only those laws which, being uncomplicated with others,
and not disturbed in their manifestations, required no niceties of observation to disentangle
them. Whence it appears not only that in proportion as knowledge becomes quantitative do its
previsions become complete as well as certain, but that until its assumption of a quantitative
character it is necessarily confined to the most elementary relations.

Moreover it is to be remarked that while, on the one hand, we can discover the laws of the
greater proportion of phenomena only by investigating them quantitatively; on the other hand
we can extend the range of our quantitative previsions only as fast as we detect the laws of
the results we predict. For clearly the ability to specify the magnitude of a result inaccessible
to direct measurement, implies knowledge of its mode of dependence on something which can be
measured--implies that we know the particular fact dealt with to be an instance of some more
general fact. Thus the extent to which our quantitative previsions have been carried in any
direction, indicates the depth to which our knowledge reaches in that direction. And here,
as another aspect of the same fact, we may further observe that as we pass from qualitative
to quantitative prevision, we pass from inductive science to deductive science. Science while
purely inductive is purely qualitative: when inaccurately quantitative it usually consists
of part induction, part deduction: and it becomes accurately quantitative only when wholly
deductive. We do not mean that the deductive and the quantitative are coextensive; for there
is manifestly much deduction that is qualitative only. We mean that all quantitative prevision
is reached deductively; and that induction can achieve only qualitative prevision.

Still, however, it must not be supposed that these distinctions enable us to separate ordinary
knowledge from science, much as they seem to do so. While they show in what consists the broad
contrast between the extreme forms of the two, they yet lead us to recognise their essential
identity; and once more prove the difference to be one of degree only. For, on the one hand,
the commonest positive knowledge is to some extent quantitative; seeing that the amount of
the foreseen result is known within certain wide limits. And, on the other hand, the highest
quantitative prevision does not reach the exact truth, but only a very near approximation to
it. Without clocks the savage knows that the day is longer in the summer than in the winter;
without scales he knows that stone is heavier than flesh: that is, he can foresee respecting
certain results that their amounts will exceed these, and be less than those--he knows about
what they will be. And, with his most delicate instruments and most elaborate calculations,
all that the man of science can do, is to reduce the difference between the foreseen and the
actual results to an unimportant quantity.

Moreover, it must be borne in mind not only that all the sciences are qualitative in their
first stages,--not only that some of them, as Chemistry, have but recently reached the quantitative
stage--but that the most advanced sciences have attained to their present power of determining
quantities not present to the senses, or not directly measurable, by a slow process of improvement
extending through thousands of years. So that science and the knowledge of the uncultured are
alike in the nature of their previsions, widely as they differ in range; they possess a common
imperfection, though this is immensely greater in the last than in the first; and the transition
from the one to the other has been through a series of steps by which the imperfection has
been rendered continually less, and the range continually wider.

These facts, that science and the positive knowledge of the uncultured cannot be separated
in nature, and that the one is but a perfected and extended form of the other, must necessarily
underlie the whole theory of science, its progress, and the relations of its parts to each
other. There must be serious incompleteness in any history of the sciences, which, leaving
out of view the first steps of their genesis, commences with them only when they assume definite
forms. There must be grave defects, if not a general untruth, in a philosophy of the sciences
considered in their interdependence and development, which neglects the inquiry how they came
to be distinct sciences, and how they were severally evolved out of the chaos of primitive ideas.

Not only a direct consideration of the matter, but all analogy, goes to show that in the earlier
and simpler stages must be sought the key to all subsequent intricacies. The time was when
the anatomy and physiology of the human being were studied by themselves--when the adult man
was analysed and the relations of parts and of functions investigated, without reference either
to the relations exhibited in the embryo or to the homologous relations existing in other creatures.
Now, however, it has become manifest that no true conceptions, no true generalisations, are
possible under such conditions. Anatomists and physiologists now find that the real natures
of organs and tissues can be ascertained only by tracing their early evolution; and that the
affinities between existing genera can be satisfactorily made out only by examining the fossil
genera to which they are allied. Well, is it not clear that the like must be true concerning
all things that undergo development? Is not science a growth? Has not science, too, its embryology?
And must not the neglect of its embryology lead to a misunderstanding of the principles of
its evolution and of its existing organisation?

There are à priori reasons, therefore, for doubting the truth of all philosophies of the sciences
which tacitly proceed upon the common notion that scientific knowledge and ordinary knowledge
are separate; instead of commencing, as they should, by affiliating the one upon the other,
and showing how it gradually came to be distinguishable from the other. We may expect to find
their generalisations essentially artificial; and we shall not be deceived. Some illustrations
of this may here be fitly introduced, by way of preliminary to a brief sketch of the genesis
of science from the point of view indicated. And we cannot more readily find such illustrations
than by glancing at a few of the various classifications of the sciences that have from time
to time been proposed. To consider all of them would take too much space: we must content ourselves
with some of the latest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commencing with those which may be soonest disposed of, let us notice first the arrangement
propounded by Oken. An abstract of it runs thus:--

     Part I.   MATHESIS.--Pneumatogeny: Primary Art, Primary
               Consciousness, God, Primary Rest, Time, Polarity, Motion,
               Man, Space, Point. Line, Surface, Globe,
               Rotation.--Hylogeny: Gravity, Matter, Ether, Heavenly
               Bodies, Light, Heat, Fire.

        (He explains that MATHESIS is the doctrine of the whole;
        Pneumatogeny being the doctrine of immaterial totalities, and
        Hylogeny that of material totalities.)

     Part II.  ONTOLOGY.--Cosmogeny: Rest, Centre, Motion, Line,
               Planets, Form, Planetary System, Comets.--Stöchiogeny:
               Condensation, Simple Matter, Elements, Air, Water,
               Earth--Stöchiology: Functions of the Elements, etc.,
               etc.--Kingdoms of Nature: Individuals.

        (He says in explanation that "ONTOLOGY teaches us the phenomena
        of matter. The first of these are the heavenly bodies
        comprehended by Cosmogeny. These divide into
        elements--Stöchiogeny. The earth element divides into
        minerals--Mineralogy. These unite into one collective
        body--Geogeny. The whole in singulars is the living, or
        Organic, which again divides into plants and animals.
        Biology, therefore, divides into Organogeny, Phytosophy,
        Zoosophy.")

               FIRST KINGDOM.--MINERALS. Mineralogy, Geology.

     Part III. BIOLOGY.--Organosophy, Phytogeny, Phyto-physiology,
               Phytology, Zoogeny, Physiology, Zoology,
               Psychology.

A glance over this confused scheme shows that it is an attempt to classify knowledge, not after
the order in which it has been, or may be, built up in the human consciousness; but after an
assumed order of creation. It is a pseudo-scientific cosmogony, akin to those which men have
enunciated from the earliest times downwards; and only a little more respectable. As such it
will not be thought worthy of much consideration by those who, like ourselves, hold that experience
is the sole origin of knowledge. Otherwise, it might have been needful to dwell on the incongruities
of the arrangements--to ask how motion can be treated of before space? how there can be rotation
without matter to rotate? how polarity can be dealt with without involving points and lines?
But it will serve our present purpose just to point out a few of the extreme absurdities resulting
from the doctrine which Oken seems to hold in common with Hegel, that "to philosophise on Nature
is to re-think the great thought of Creation." Here is a sample:--

"Mathematics is the universal science; so also is Physio-philosophy, although it is only a
part, or rather but a condition of the universe; both are one, or mutually congruent.

"Mathematics is, however, a science of mere forms without substance. Physio-philosophy is,
therefore, mathematics endowed with substance."

From the English point of view it is sufficiently amusing to find such a dogma not only gravely
stated, but stated as an unquestionable truth. Here we see the experiences of quantitative
relations which men have gathered from surrounding bodies and generalised (experiences which
had been scarcely at all generalised at the beginning of the historic period)--we find these
generalised experiences, these intellectual abstractions, elevated into concrete actualities,
projected back into Nature, and considered as the internal framework of things--the skeleton
by which matter is sustained. But this new form of the old realism is by no means the most
startling of the physio-philosophic principles. We presently read that,

"The highest mathematical idea, or the fundamental principle of all mathematics is the zero
= 0."....

"Zero is in itself nothing. Mathematics is based upon nothing, and, consequently, arises out
of nothing.

"Out of nothing, therefore, it is possible for something to arise; for mathematics, consisting
of propositions, is something, in relation to 0."

By such "consequentlys" and "therefores" it is, that men philosophise when they "re-think the
great thought of Creation." By dogmas that pretend to be reasons, nothing is made to generate
mathematics; and by clothing mathematics with matter, we have the universe! If now we deny,
as we do deny, that the highest mathematical idea is the zero;--if, on the other hand, we assert,
as we do assert, that the fundamental idea underlying all mathematics, is that of equality;
the whole of Oken's cosmogony disappears. And here, indeed, we may see illustrated, the distinctive
peculiarity of the German method of procedure in these matters--the bastard à priori method,
as it may be termed. The legitimate à priori method sets out with propositions of which the
negation is inconceivable; the à priori method as illegitimately applied, sets out either with
propositions of which the negation is not inconceivable, or with propositions like Oken's,
of which the affirmation is inconceivable.

It is needless to proceed further with the analysis; else might we detail the steps by which
Oken arrives at the conclusions that "the planets are coagulated colours, for they are coagulated
light; that the sphere is the expanded nothing;" that gravity is "a weighty nothing, a heavy
essence, striving towards a centre;" that "the earth is the identical, water the indifferent,
air the different; or the first the centre, the second the radius, the last the periphery of
the general globe or of fire." To comment on them would be nearly as absurd as are the propositions
themselves. Let us pass on to another of the German systems of knowledge--that of Hegel.

The simple fact that Hegel puts Jacob Boehme on a par with Bacon, suffices alone to show that
his standpoint is far remote from the one usually regarded as scientific: so far remote, indeed,
that it is not easy to find any common basis on which to found a criticism. Those who hold
that the mind is moulded into conformity with surrounding things by the agency of surrounding
things, are necessarily at a loss how to deal with those, who, like Schelling and Hegel, assert
that surrounding things are solidified mind--that Nature is "petrified intelligence." However,
let us briefly glance at Hegel's classification. He divides philosophy into three parts:--

1. Logic, or the science of the idea in itself, the pure idea.

2. The Philosophy of Nature, or the science of the idea considered under its other form--of
the idea as Nature.

3. The Philosophy of the Mind, or the science of the idea in its return to itself.

Of these, the second is divided into the natural sciences, commonly so called; so that in its
more detailed form the series runs thus:--Logic, Mechanics, Physics, Organic Physics, Psychology.

Now, if we believe with Hegel, first, that thought is the true essence of man; second, that
thought is the essence of the world; and that, therefore, there is nothing but thought; his
classification, beginning with the science of pure thought, may be acceptable. But otherwise,
it is an obvious objection to his arrangement, that thought implies things thought of--that
there can be no logical forms without the substance of experience--that the science of ideas
and the science of things must have a simultaneous origin. Hegel, however, anticipates this
objection, and, in his obstinate idealism, replies, that the contrary is true; that all contained
in the forms, to become something, requires to be thought: and that logical forms are the foundations
of all things.

It is not surprising that, starting from such premises, and reasoning after this fashion, Hegel
finds his way to strange conclusions. Out of space and time he proceeds to build up motion,
matter, repulsion, attraction, weight, and inertia. He then goes on to logically evolve the
solar system. In doing this he widely diverges from the Newtonian theory; reaches by syllogism
the conviction that the planets are the most perfect celestial bodies; and, not being able
to bring the stars within his theory, says that they are mere formal existences and not living
matter, and that as compared with the solar system they are as little admirable as a cutaneous
eruption or a swarm of flies.[2]

Results so outrageous might be left as self-disproved, were it not that speculators of this
class are not alarmed by any amount of incongruity with established beliefs. The only efficient
mode of treating systems like this of Hegel, is to show that they are self-destructive--that
by their first steps they ignore that authority on which all their subsequent steps depend.
If Hegel professes, as he manifestly does, to develop his scheme by reasoning--if he presents
successive inferences as necessarily following from certain premises; he implies the postulate
that a belief which necessarily follows after certain antecedents is a true belief: and, did
an opponent reply to one of his inferences, that, though it was impossible to think the opposite,
yet the opposite was true, he would consider the reply irrational. The procedure, however,
which he would thus condemn as destructive of all thinking whatever, is just the procedure
exhibited in the enunciation of his own first principles.

Mankind find themselves unable to conceive that there can be thought without things thought
of. Hegel, however, asserts that there can be thought without things thought of. That ultimate
test of a true proposition--the inability of the human mind to conceive the negation of it--which
in all other cases he considers valid, he considers invalid where it suits his convenience
to do so; and yet at the same time denies the right of an opponent to follow his example. If
it is competent for him to posit dogmas, which are the direct negations of what human consciousness
recognises; then is it also competent for his antagonists to stop him at every step in his
argument by saying, that though the particular inference he is drawing seems to his mind, and
to all minds, necessarily to follow from the premises, yet it is not true, but the contrary
inference is true. Or, to state the dilemma in another form:--If he sets out with inconceivable
propositions, then may he with equal propriety make all his succeeding propositions inconceivable
ones--may at every step throughout his reasoning draw exactly the opposite conclusion to that
which seems involved.

Hegel's mode of procedure being thus essentially suicidal, the Hegelian classification which
depends upon it falls to the ground. Let us consider next that of M. Comte.

As all his readers must admit, M. Comte presents us with a scheme of the sciences which, unlike
the foregoing ones, demands respectful consideration. Widely as we differ from him, we cheerfully
bear witness to the largeness of his views, the clearness of his reasoning, and the value of
his speculations as contributing to intellectual progress. Did we believe a serial arrangement
of the sciences to be possible, that of M. Comte would certainly be the one we should adopt.
His fundamental propositions are thoroughly intelligible; and if not true, have a great semblance
of truth. His successive steps are logically co-ordinated; and he supports his conclusions
by a considerable amount of evidence--evidence which, so long as it is not critically examined,
or not met by counter evidence, seems to substantiate his positions. But it only needs to assume
that antagonistic attitude which ought to be assumed towards new doctrines, in the belief that,
if true, they will prosper by conquering objectors--it needs but to test his leading doctrines
either by other facts than those he cites, or by his own facts differently applied, to at once
show that they will not stand. We will proceed thus to deal with the general principle on which
he bases his hierarchy of the sciences.

In the second chapter of his Cours de Philosophic Positive, M. Comte says:--"Our problem is,
then, to find the one rational order, amongst a host of possible systems." ... "This order
is determined by the degree of simplicity, or, what comes to the same thing, of generality
of their phenomena." And the arrangement he deduces runs thus: Mathematics, Astronomy, Physics,
Chemistry, Physiology, Social Physics. This he asserts to be "the true filiation of the sciences."
He asserts further, that the principle of progression from a greater to a less degree of generality,
"which gives this order to the whole body of science, arranges the parts of each science."
And, finally, he asserts that the gradations thus established à priori among the sciences,
and the parts of each science, "is in essential conformity with the order which has spontaneously
taken place among the branches of natural philosophy;" or, in other words--corresponds with
the order of historic development.

Let us compare these assertions with the facts. That there may be perfect fairness, let us
make no choice, but take as the field for our comparison, the succeeding section treating of
the first science--Mathematics; and let us use none but M. Comte's own facts, and his own admissions.
Confining ourselves to this one science, of course our comparisons must be between its several
parts. M. Comte says, that the parts of each science must be arranged in the order of their
decreasing generality; and that this order of decreasing generality agrees with the order of
historical development. Our inquiry must be, then, whether the history of mathematics confirms
this statement.

Carrying out his principle, M. Comte divides Mathematics into "Abstract Mathematics, or the
Calculus (taking the word in its most extended sense) and Concrete Mathematics, which is composed
of General Geometry and of Rational Mechanics." The subject-matter of the first of these is
number; the subject-matter of the second includes space, time, motion, force. The one possesses
the highest possible degree of generality; for all things whatever admit of enumeration. The
others are less general; seeing that there are endless phenomena that are not cognisable either
by general geometry or rational mechanics. In conformity with the alleged law, therefore, the
evolution of the calculus must throughout have preceded the evolution of the concrete sub-sciences.
Now somewhat awkwardly for him, the first remark M. Comte makes bearing upon this point is,
that "from an historical point of view, mathematical analysis appears to have risen out of
the contemplation of geometrical and mechanical facts." True, he goes on to say that, "it is
not the less independent of these sciences logically speaking;" for that "analytical ideas
are, above all others, universal, abstract, and simple; and geometrical conceptions are necessarily
founded on them."

We will not take advantage of this last passage to charge M. Comte with teaching, after the
fashion of Hegel, that there can be thought without things thought of. We are content simply
to compare the two assertions, that analysis arose out of the contemplation of geometrical
and mechanical facts, and that geometrical conceptions are founded upon analytical ones. Literally
interpreted they exactly cancel each other. Interpreted, however, in a liberal sense, they
imply, what we believe to be demonstrable, that the two had a simultaneous origin. The passage
is either nonsense, or it is an admission that abstract and concrete mathematics are coeval.
Thus, at the very first step, the alleged congruity between the order of generality and the
order of evolution does not hold good.

But may it not be that though abstract and concrete mathematics took their rise at the same
time, the one afterwards developed more rapidly than the other; and has ever since remained
in advance of it? No: and again we call M. Comte himself as witness. Fortunately for his argument
he has said nothing respecting the early stages of the concrete and abstract divisions after
their divergence from a common root; otherwise the advent of Algebra long after the Greek geometry
had reached a high development, would have been an inconvenient fact for him to deal with.
But passing over this, and limiting ourselves to his own statements, we find, at the opening
of the next chapter, the admission, that "the historical development of the abstract portion
of mathematical science has, since the time of Descartes, been for the most part determined
by that of the concrete." Further on we read respecting algebraic functions that "most functions
were concrete in their origin--even those which are at present the most purely abstract; and
the ancients discovered only through geometrical definitions elementary algebraic properties
of functions to which a numerical value was not attached till long afterwards, rendering abstract
to us what was concrete to the old geometers." How do these statements tally with his doctrine?
Again, having divided the calculus into algebraic and arithmetical, M. Comte admits, as perforce
he must, that the algebraic is more general than the arithmetical; yet he will not say that
algebra preceded arithmetic in point of time. And again, having divided the calculus of functions
into the calculus of direct functions (common algebra) and the calculus of indirect functions
(transcendental analysis), he is obliged to speak of this last as possessing a higher generality
than the first; yet it is far more modern. Indeed, by implication, M. Comte himself confesses
this incongruity; for he says:--"It might seem that the transcendental analysis ought to be
studied before the ordinary, as it provides the equations which the other has to resolve; but
though the transcendental is logically independent of the ordinary, it is best to follow the
usual method of study, taking the ordinary first." In all these cases, then, as well as at
the close of the section where he predicts that mathematicians will in time "create procedures
of a wider generality", M. Comte makes admissions that are diametrically opposed to the alleged
law.

In the succeeding chapters treating of the concrete department of mathematics, we find similar
contradictions M. Comte himself names the geometry of the ancients special geometry, and that
of moderns the general geometry. He admits that while "the ancients studied geometry with reference
to the bodies under notice, or specially; the moderns study it with reference to the phenomena
to be considered, or generally." He admits that while "the ancients extracted all they could
out of one line or surface before passing to another," "the moderns, since Descartes, employ
themselves on questions which relate to any figure whatever." These facts are the reverse of
what, according to his theory, they should be. So, too, in mechanics. Before dividing it into
statics and dynamics, M. Comte treats of the three laws of motion, and is obliged to do so;
for statics, the more general of the two divisions, though it does not involve motion, is impossible
as a science until the laws of motion are ascertained. Yet the laws of motion pertain to dynamics,
the more special of the divisions. Further on he points out that after Archimedes, who discovered
the law of equilibrium of the lever, statics made no progress until the establishment of dynamics
enabled us to seek "the conditions of equilibrium through the laws of the composition of forces."
And he adds--"At this day this is the method universally employed. At the first glance it does
not appear the most rational--dynamics being more complicated than statics, and precedence
being natural to the simpler. It would, in fact, be more philosophical to refer dynamics to
statics, as has since been done." Sundry discoveries are afterwards detailed, showing how completely
the development of statics has been achieved by considering its problems dynamically; and before
the close of the section M. Comte remarks that "before hydrostatics could be comprehended under
statics, it was necessary that the abstract theory of equilibrium should be made so general
as to apply directly to fluids as well as solids. This was accomplished when Lagrange supplied,
as the basis of the whole of rational mechanics, the single principle of virtual velocities."
In which statement we have two facts directly at variance: with M. Comte's doctrine; first,
that the simpler science, statics, reached its present development only by the aid of the principle
of virtual velocities, which belongs to the more complex science, dynamics; and that this "single
principle" underlying all rational mechanics--this most general form which includes alike the
relations of statical, hydro-statical, and dynamical forces--was reached so late as the time
of Lagrange.

Thus it is not true that the historical succession of the divisions of mathematics has corresponded
with the order of decreasing generality. It is not true that abstract mathematics was evolved
antecedently to, and independently of concrete mathematics. It is not true that of the subdivisions
of abstract mathematics, the more general came before the more special. And it is not true
that concrete mathematics, in either of its two sections, began with the most abstract and
advanced to the less abstract truths.

It may be well to mention, parenthetically, that in defending his alleged law of progression
from the general to the special, M. Comte somewhere comments upon the two meanings of the word
general, and the resulting liability to confusion. Without now discussing whether the asserted
distinction can be maintained in other cases, it is manifest that it does not exist here. In
sundry of the instances above quoted, the endeavours made by M. Comte himself to disguise,
or to explain away, the precedence of the special over the general, clearly indicate that the
generality spoken of is of the kind meant by his formula. And it needs but a brief consideration
of the matter to show that, even did he attempt it, he could not distinguish this generality,
which, as above proved, frequently comes last, from the generality which he says always comes
first. For what is the nature of that mental process by which objects, dimensions, weights,
times, and the rest, are found capable of having their relations expressed numerically? It
is the formation of certain abstract conceptions of unity, duality and multiplicity, which
are applicable to all things alike. It is the invention of general symbols serving to express
the numerical relations of entities, whatever be their special characters. And what is the
nature of the mental process by which numbers are found capable of having their relations expressed
algebraically? It is just the same. It is the formation of certain abstract conceptions of
numerical functions which are the same whatever be the magnitudes of the numbers. It is the
invention of general symbols serving to express the relations between numbers, as numbers express
the relations between things. And transcendental analysis stands to algebra in the same position
that algebra stands in to arithmetic.

To briefly illustrate their respective powers--arithmetic can express in one formula the value
of a particular tangent to a particular curve; algebra can express in one formula the values
of all tangents to a particular curve; transcendental analysis can express in one formula the
values of all tangents to all curves. Just as arithmetic deals with the common properties of
lines, areas, bulks, forces, periods; so does algebra deal with the common properties of the
numbers which arithmetic presents; so does transcendental analysis deal with the common properties
of the equations exhibited by algebra. Thus, the generality of the higher branches of the calculus,
when compared with the lower, is the same kind of generality as that of the lower branches
when compared with geometry or mechanics. And on examination it will be found that the like
relation exists in the various other cases above given.

Having shown that M. Comte's alleged law of progression does not hold among the several parts
of the same science, let us see how it agrees with the facts when applied to separate sciences.
"Astronomy," says M. Comte, at the opening of Book III., "was a positive science, in its geometrical
aspect, from the earliest days of the school of Alexandria; but Physics, which we are now to
consider, had no positive character at all till Galileo made his great discoveries on the fall
of heavy bodies." On this, our comment is simply that it is a misrepresentation based upon
an arbitrary misuse of words--a mere verbal artifice. By choosing to exclude from terrestrial
physics those laws of magnitude, motion, and position, which he includes in celestial physics,
M. Comte makes it appear that the one owes nothing to the other. Not only is this altogether
unwarrantable, but it is radically inconsistent with his own scheme of divisions. At the outset
he says--and as the point is important we quote from the original--"Pour la physique inorganique
nous voyons d'abord, en nous conformant toujours a l'ordre de généralité et de dépendance des
phénomènes, qu'elle doit être partagée en deux sections distinctes, suivant qu'elle considère
les phénomènes généraux de l'univers, ou, en particulier, ceux que présentent les corps terrestres.
D'où la physique céleste, ou l'astronomie, soit géométrique, soit mechanique; et la physique
terrestre."

Here then we have inorganic physics clearly divided into celestial physics and terrestrial
physics--the phenomena presented by the universe, and the phenomena presented by earthly bodies.
If now celestial bodies and terrestrial bodies exhibit sundry leading phenomena in common,
as they do, how can the generalisation of these common phenomena be considered as pertaining
to the one class rather than to the other? If inorganic physics includes geometry (which M.
Comte has made it do by comprehending geometrical astronomy in its sub-section--celestial physics);
and if its sub-section--terrestrial physics, treats of things having geometrical properties;
how can the laws of geometrical relations be excluded from terrestrial physics? Clearly if
celestial physics includes the geometry of objects in the heavens, terrestrial physics includes
the geometry of objects on the earth. And if terrestrial physics includes terrestrial geometry,
while celestial physics includes celestial geometry, then the geometrical part of terrestrial
physics precedes the geometrical part of celestial physics; seeing that geometry gained its
first ideas from surrounding objects. Until men had learnt geometrical relations from bodies
on the earth, it was impossible for them to understand the geometrical relations of bodies
in the heavens.

So, too, with celestial mechanics, which had terrestrial mechanics for its parent. The very
conception of force, which underlies the whole of mechanical astronomy, is borrowed from our
earthly experiences; and the leading laws of mechanical action as exhibited in scales, levers,
projectiles, etc., had to be ascertained before the dynamics of the solar system could be entered
upon. What were the laws made use of by Newton in working out his grand discovery? The law
of falling bodies disclosed by Galileo; that of the composition of forces also disclosed by
Galileo; and that of centrifugal force found out by Huyghens--all of them generalisations of
terrestrial physics. Yet, with facts like these before him, M. Comte places astronomy before
physics in order of evolution! He does not compare the geometrical parts of the two together,
and the mechanical parts of the two together; for this would by no means suit his hypothesis.
But he compares the geometrical part of the one with the mechanical part of the other, and
so gives a semblance of truth to his position. He is led away by a verbal delusion. Had he
confined his attention to the things and disregarded the words, he would have seen that before
mankind scientifically co-ordinated any one class of phenomena displayed in the heavens, they
had previously co-ordinated a parallel class of phenomena displayed upon the surface of the earth.

Were it needful we could fill a score pages with the incongruities of M. Comte's scheme. But
the foregoing samples will suffice. So far is his law of evolution of the sciences from being
tenable, that, by following his example, and arbitrarily ignoring one class of facts, it would
be possible to present, with great plausibility, just the opposite generalisation to that which
he enunciates. While he asserts that the rational order of the sciences, like the order of
their historic development, "is determined by the degree of simplicity, or, what comes to the
same thing, of generality of their phenomena;" it might contrariwise be asserted, that, commencing
with the complex and the special, mankind have progressed step by step to a knowledge of greater
simplicity and wider generality. So much evidence is there of this as to have drawn from Whewell,
in his History of the Inductive Sciences, the general remark that "the reader has already seen
repeatedly in the course of this history, complex and derivative principles presenting themselves
to men's minds before simple and elementary ones."

Even from M. Comte's own work, numerous facts, admissions, and arguments, might be picked out,
tending to show this. We have already quoted his words in proof that both abstract and concrete
mathematics have progressed towards a higher degree of generality, and that he looks forward
to a higher generality still. Just to strengthen this adverse hypothesis, let us take a further
instance. From the particular case of the scales, the law of equilibrium of which was familiar
to the earliest nations known, Archimedes advanced to the more general case of the unequal
lever with unequal weights; the law of equilibrium of which includes that of the scales. By
the help of Galileo's discovery concerning the composition of forces, D'Alembert "established,
for the first time, the equations of equilibrium of any system of forces applied to the different
points of a solid body"--equations which include all cases of levers and an infinity of cases
besides. Clearly this is progress towards a higher generality--towards a knowledge more independent
of special circumstances--towards a study of phenomena "the most disengaged from the incidents
of particular cases;" which is M. Comte's definition of "the most simple phenomena." Does it
not indeed follow from the familiarly admitted fact, that mental advance is from the concrete
to the abstract, from the particular to the general, that the universal and therefore most
simple truths are the last to be discovered? Is not the government of the solar system by a
force varying inversely as the square of the distance, a simpler conception than any that preceded
it? Should we ever succeed in reducing all orders of phenomena to some single law--say of atomic
action, as M. Comte suggests--must not that law answer to his test of being independent of
all others, and therefore most simple? And would not such a law generalise the phenomena of
gravity, cohesion, atomic affinity, and electric repulsion, just as the laws of number generalise
the quantitative phenomena of space, time, and force?

The possibility of saying so much in support of an hypothesis the very reverse of M. Comte's,
at once proves that his generalisation is only a half-truth. The fact is, that neither proposition
is correct by itself; and the actuality is expressed only by putting the two together. The
progress of science is duplex: it is at once from the special to the general, and from the
general to the special: it is analytical and synthetical at the same time.

M. Comte himself observes that the evolution of science has been accomplished by the division
of labour; but he quite misstates the mode in which this division of labour has operated. As
he describes it, it has simply been an arrangement of phenomena into classes, and the study
of each class by itself. He does not recognise the constant effect of progress in each class
upon all other classes; but only on the class succeeding it in his hierarchical scale. Or if
he occasionally admits collateral influences and intercommunications, he does it so grudgingly,
and so quickly puts the admissions out of sight and forgets them, as to leave the impression
that, with but trifling exceptions, the sciences aid each other only in the order of their
alleged succession. The fact is, however, that the division of labour in science, like the
division of labour in society, and like the "physiological division of labour" in individual
organisms, has been not only a specialisation of functions, but a continuous helping of each
division by all the others, and of all by each. Every particular class of inquirers has, as
it were, secreted its own particular order of truths from the general mass of material which
observation accumulates; and all other classes of inquirers have made use of these truths as
fast as they were elaborated, with the effect of enabling them the better to elaborate each
its own order of truths.

It was thus in sundry of the cases we have quoted as at variance with M. Comte's doctrine.
It was thus with the application of Huyghens's optical discovery to astronomical observation
by Galileo. It was thus with the application of the isochronism of the pendulum to the making
of instruments for measuring intervals, astronomical and other. It was thus when the discovery
that the refraction and dispersion of light did not follow the same law of variation, affected
both astronomy and physiology by giving us achromatic telescopes and microscopes. It was thus
when Bradley's discovery of the aberration of light enabled him to make the first step towards
ascertaining the motions of the stars. It was thus when Cavendish's torsion-balance experiment
determined the specific gravity of the earth, and so gave a datum for calculating the specific
gravities of the sun and planets. It was thus when tables of atmospheric refraction enabled
observers to write down the real places of the heavenly bodies instead of their apparent places.
It was thus when the discovery of the different expansibilities of metals by heat, gave us
the means of correcting our chronometrical measurements of astronomical periods. It was thus
when the lines of the prismatic spectrum were used to distinguish the heavenly bodies that
are of like nature with the sun from those which are not. It was thus when, as recently, an
electro-telegraphic instrument was invented for the more accurate registration of meridional
transits. It was thus when the difference in the rates of a clock at the equator, and nearer
the poles, gave data for calculating the oblateness of the earth, and accounting for the precession
of the equinoxes. It was thus--but it is needless to continue.

Here, within our own limited knowledge of its history, we have named ten additional cases in
which the single science of astronomy has owed its advance to sciences coming after it in M.
Comte's series. Not only its secondary steps, but its greatest revolutions have been thus determined.
Kepler could not have discovered his celebrated laws had it not been for Tycho Brahe's accurate
observations; and it was only after some progress in physical and chemical science that the
improved instruments with which those observations were made, became possible. The heliocentric
theory of the solar system had to wait until the invention of the telescope before it could
be finally established. Nay, even the grand discovery of all--the law of gravitation--depended
for its proof upon an operation of physical science, the measurement of a degree on the Earth's
surface. So completely indeed did it thus depend, that Newton had actually abandoned his hypothesis
because the length of a degree, as then stated, brought out wrong results; and it was only
after Picart's more exact measurement was published, that he returned to his calculations and
proved his great generalisation. Now this constant intercommunion, which, for brevity's sake,
we have illustrated in the case of one science only, has been taking place with all the sciences.
Throughout the whole course of their evolution there has been a continuous consensus of the
sciences--a consensus exhibiting a general correspondence with the consensus of faculties in
each phase of mental development; the one being an objective registry of the subjective state
of the other.

From our present point of view, then, it becomes obvious that the conception of a serial arrangement
of the sciences is a vicious one. It is not simply that the schemes we have examined are untenable;
but it is that the sciences cannot be rightly placed in any linear order whatever. It is not
simply that, as M. Comte admits, a classification "will always involve something, if not arbitrary,
at least artificial;" it is not, as he would have us believe, that, neglecting minor imperfections
a classification may be substantially true; but it is that any grouping of the sciences in
a succession gives a radically erroneous idea of their genesis and their dependencies. There
is no "one rational order among a host of possible systems." There is no "true filiation of
the sciences." The whole hypothesis is fundamentally false. Indeed, it needs but a glance at
its origin to see at once how baseless it is. Why a series? What reason have we to suppose
that the sciences admit of a linear arrangement? Where is our warrant for assuming that there
is some succession in which they can be placed? There is no reason; no warrant. Whence then
has arisen the supposition? To use M. Comte's own phraseology, we should say, it is a metaphysical
conception. It adds another to the cases constantly occurring, of the human mind being made
the measure of Nature. We are obliged to think in sequence; it is the law of our minds that
we must consider subjects separately, one after another: therefore Nature must be serial--therefore
the sciences must be classifiable in a succession. See here the birth of the notion, and the
sole evidence of its truth. Men have been obliged when arranging in books their schemes of
education and systems of knowledge, to choose some order or other. And from inquiring what
is the best order, have naturally fallen into the belief that there is an order which truly
represents the facts--have persevered in seeking such an order; quite overlooking the previous
question whether it is likely that Nature has consulted the convenience of book-making.

For German philosophers, who hold that Nature is "petrified intelligence," and that logical
forms are the foundations of all things, it is a consistent hypothesis that as thought is serial,
Nature is serial; but that M. Comte, who is so bitter an opponent of all anthropomorphism,
even in its most evanescent shapes, should have committed the mistake of imposing upon the
external world an arrangement which so obviously springs from a limitation of the human consciousness,
is somewhat strange. And it is the more strange when we call to mind how, at the outset, M.
Comte remarks that in the beginning "toutes les sciences sont cultivées simultanément par les
mêmes esprits;" that this is "inevitable et même indispensable;" and how he further remarks
that the different sciences are "comme les diverses branches d'un tronc unique." Were it not
accounted for by the distorting influence of a cherished hypothesis, it would be scarcely possible
to understand how, after recognising truths like these, M. Comte should have persisted in attempting
to construct "une échelle encyclopédique."

The metaphor which M. Comte has here so inconsistently used to express the relations of the
sciences--branches of one trunk--is an approximation to the truth, though not the truth itself.
It suggests the facts that the sciences had a common origin; that they have been developing
simultaneously; and that they have been from time to time dividing and subdividing. But it
does not suggest the yet more important fact, that the divisions and subdivisions thus arising
do not remain separate, but now and again reunite in direct and indirect ways. They inosculate;
they severally send off and receive connecting growths; and the intercommunion has been ever
becoming more frequent, more intricate, more widely ramified. There has all along been higher
specialisation, that there might be a larger generalisation; and a deeper analysis, that there
might be a better synthesis. Each larger generalisation has lifted sundry specialisations still
higher; and each better synthesis has prepared the way for still deeper analysis.

And here we may fitly enter upon the task awhile since indicated--a sketch of the Genesis of
Science, regarded as a gradual outgrowth from common knowledge--an extension of the perceptions
by the aid of the reason. We propose to treat it as a psychological process historically displayed;
tracing at the same time the advance from qualitative to quantitative prevision; the progress
from concrete facts to abstract facts, and the application of such abstract facts to the analysis
of new orders of concrete facts; the simultaneous advance in generalisation and specialisation;
the continually increasing subdivision and reunion of the sciences; and their constantly improving
consensus.

To trace out scientific evolution from its deepest roots would, of course, involve a complete
analysis of the mind. For as science is a development of that common knowledge acquired by
the unaided senses and uncultured reason, so is that common knowledge itself gradually built
up out of the simplest perceptions. We must, therefore, begin somewhere abruptly; and the most
appropriate stage to take for our point of departure will be the adult mind of the savage.

Commencing thus, without a proper preliminary analysis, we are naturally somewhat at a loss
how to present, in a satisfactory manner, those fundamental processes of thought out of which
science ultimately originates. Perhaps our argument may be best initiated by the proposition,
that all intelligent action whatever depends upon the discerning of distinctions among surrounding
things. The condition under which only it is possible for any creature to obtain food and avoid
danger is, that it shall be differently affected by different objects--that it shall be led
to act in one way by one object, and in another way by another. In the lower orders of creatures
this condition is fulfilled by means of an apparatus which acts automatically. In the higher
orders the actions are partly automatic, partly conscious. And in man they are almost wholly
conscious.

Throughout, however, there must necessarily exist a certain classification of things according
to their properties--a classification which is either organically registered in the system,
as in the inferior creation, or is formed by experience, as in ourselves. And it may be further
remarked, that the extent to which this classification is carried, roughly indicates the height
of intelligence--that while the lowest organisms are able to do little more than discriminate
organic from inorganic matter; while the generality of animals carry their classifications
no further than to a limited number of plants or creatures serving for food, a limited number
of beasts of prey, and a limited number of places and materials; the most degraded of the human
race possess a knowledge of the distinctive natures of a great variety of substances, plants,
animals, tools, persons, etc., not only as classes but as individuals.

What now is the mental process by which classification is effected? Manifestly it is a recognition
of the likeness or unlikeness of things, either in respect of their sizes, colours, forms,
weights, textures, tastes, etc., or in respect of their modes of action. By some special mark,
sound, or motion, the savage identifies a certain four-legged creature he sees, as one that
is good for food, and to be caught in a particular way; or as one that is dangerous; and acts
accordingly. He has classed together all the creatures that are alike in this particular. And
manifestly in choosing the wood out of which to form his bow, the plant with which to poison
his arrows, the bone from which to make his fish-hooks, he identifies them through their chief
sensible properties as belonging to the general classes, wood, plant, and bone, but distinguishes
them as belonging to sub-classes by virtue of certain properties in which they are unlike the
rest of the general classes they belong to; and so forms genera and species.

And here it becomes manifest that not only is classification carried on by grouping together
in the mind things that are like; but that classes and sub-classes are formed and arranged
according to the degrees of unlikeness. Things widely contrasted are alone distinguished in
the lower stages of mental evolution; as may be any day observed in an infant. And gradually
as the powers of discrimination increase, the widely contrasted classes at first distinguished,
come to be each divided into sub-classes, differing from each other less than the classes differ;
and these sub-classes are again divided after the same manner. By the continuance of which
process, things are gradually arranged into groups, the members of which are less and less
unlike; ending, finally, in groups whose members differ only as individuals, and not specifically.
And thus there tends ultimately to arise the notion of complete likeness. For, manifestly,
it is impossible that groups should continue to be subdivided in virtue of smaller and smaller
differences, without there being a simultaneous approximation to the notion of no difference.

Let us next notice that the recognition of likeness and unlikeness, which underlies classification,
and out of which continued classification evolves the idea of complete likeness--let us next
notice that it also underlies the process of naming, and by consequence language. For all language
consists, at the beginning, of symbols which are as like to the things symbolised as it is
practicable to make them. The language of signs is a means of conveying ideas by mimicking
the actions or peculiarities of the things referred to. Verbal language is also, at the beginning,
a mode of suggesting objects or acts by imitating the sounds which the objects make, or with
which the acts are accompanied. Originally these two languages were used simultaneously. It
needs but to watch the gesticulations with which the savage accompanies his speech--to see
a Bushman or a Kaffir dramatising before an audience his mode of catching game--or to note
the extreme paucity of words in all primitive vocabularies; to infer that at first, attitudes,
gestures, and sounds, were all combined to produce as good a likeness as possible, of the things,
animals, persons, or events described; and that as the sounds came to be understood by themselves
the gestures fell into disuse: leaving traces, however, in the manners of the more excitable
civilised races. But be this as it may, it suffices simply to observe, how many of the words
current among barbarous peoples are like the sounds appertaining to the things signified; how
many of our own oldest and simplest words have the same peculiarity; how children tend to invent
imitative words; and how the sign-language spontaneously formed by deaf mutes is invariably
based upon imitative actions--to at once see that the nation of likeness is that from which
the nomenclature of objects takes its rise.

Were there space we might go on to point out how this law of life is traceable, not only in
the origin but in the development of language; how in primitive tongues the plural is made
by a duplication of the singular, which is a multiplication of the word to make it like the
multiplicity of the things; how the use of metaphor--that prolific source of new words--is
a suggesting of ideas that are like the ideas to be conveyed in some respect or other; and
how, in the copious use of simile, fable, and allegory among uncivilised races, we see that
complex conceptions, which there is yet no direct language for, are rendered, by presenting
known conceptions more or less like them.

This view is further confirmed, and the predominance of this notion of likeness in primitive
times further illustrated, by the fact that our system of presenting ideas to the eye originated
after the same fashion. Writing and printing have descended from picture-language. The earliest
mode of permanently registering a fact was by depicting it on a wall; that is--by exhibiting
something as like to the thing to be remembered as it could be made. Gradually as the practice
grew habitual and extensive, the most frequently repeated forms became fixed, and presently
abbreviated; and, passing through the hieroglyphic and ideographic phases, the symbols lost
all apparent relations to the things signified: just as the majority of our spoken words have done.

Observe again, that the same thing is true respecting the genesis of reasoning. The likeness
that is perceived to exist between cases, is the essence of all early reasoning and of much
of our present reasoning. The savage, having by experience discovered a relation between a
certain object and a certain act, infers that the like relation will be found in future cases.
And the expressions we constantly use in our arguments--"analogy implies," "the cases are not
parallel," "by parity of reasoning," "there is no similarity,"--show how constantly the idea
of likeness underlies our ratiocinative processes.

Still more clearly will this be seen on recognising the fact that there is a certain parallelism
between reasoning and classification; that the two have a common root; and that neither can
go on without the other. For on the one hand, it is a familiar truth that the attributing to
a body in consequence of some of its properties, all those other properties in virtue of which
it is referred to a particular class, is an act of inference. And, on the other hand, the forming
of a generalisation is the putting together in one class all those cases which present like
relations; while the drawing a deduction is essentially the perception that a particular case
belongs to a certain class of cases previously generalised. So that as classification is a
grouping together of like things; reasoning is a grouping together of like relations among
things. Add to which, that while the perfection gradually achieved in classification consists
in the formation of groups of objects which are completely alike; the perfection gradually
achieved in reasoning consists in the formation of groups of cases which are completely alike.

Once more we may contemplate this dominant idea of likeness as exhibited in art. All art, civilised
as well as savage, consists almost wholly in the making of objects like other objects; either
as found in Nature, or as produced by previous art. If we trace back the varied art-products
now existing, we find that at each stage the divergence from previous patterns is but small
when compared with the agreement; and in the earliest art the persistency of imitation is yet
more conspicuous. The old forms and ornaments and symbols were held sacred, and perpetually
copied. Indeed, the strong imitative tendency notoriously displayed by the lowest human races,
ensures among them a constant reproducing of likeness of things, forms, signs, sounds, actions,
and whatever else is imitable; and we may even suspect that this aboriginal peculiarity is
in some way connected with the culture and development of this general conception, which we
have found so deep and widespread in its applications.

And now let us go on to consider how, by a further unfolding of this same fundamental notion,
there is a gradual formation of the first germs of science. This idea of likeness which underlies
classification, nomenclature, language spoken and written, reasoning, and art; and which plays
so important a part because all acts of intelligence are made possible only by distinguishing
among surrounding things, or grouping them into like and unlike;--this idea we shall find to
be the one of which science is the especial product. Already during the stage we have been
describing, there has existed qualitative prevision in respect to the commoner phenomena with
which savage life is familiar; and we have now to inquire how the elements of quantitative
prevision are evolved. We shall find that they originate by the perfecting of this same idea
of likeness; that they have their rise in that conception of complete likeness which, as we
have seen, necessarily results from the continued process of classification.

For when the process of classification has been carried as far as it is possible for the uncivilised
to carry it--when the animal kingdom has been grouped not merely into quadrupeds, birds, fishes,
and insects, but each of these divided into kinds--when there come to be sub-classes, in each
of which the members differ only as individuals, and not specifically; it is clear that there
must occur a frequent observation of objects which differ so little as to be indistinguishable.
Among several creatures which the savage has killed and carried home, it must often happen
that some one, which he wished to identify, is so exactly like another that he cannot tell
which is which. Thus, then, there originates the notion of equality. The things which among
ourselves are called equal--whether lines, angles, weights, temperatures, sounds or colours--are
things which produce in us sensations that cannot be distinguished from each other. It is true
we now apply the word equal chiefly to the separate phenomena which objects exhibit, and not
to groups of phenomena; but this limitation of the idea has evidently arisen by subsequent
analysis. And that the notion of equality did thus originate, will, we think, become obvious
on remembering that as there were no artificial objects from which it could have been abstracted,
it must have been abstracted from natural objects; and that the various families of the animal
kingdom chiefly furnish those natural objects which display the requisite exactitude of likeness.

The same order of experiences out of which this general idea of equality is evolved, gives
birth at the same time to a more complex idea of equality; or, rather, the process just described
generates an idea of equality which further experience separates into two ideas--equality of
things and equality of relations. While organic, and more especially animal forms, occasionally
exhibit this perfection of likeness out of which the notion of simple equality arises, they
more frequently exhibit only that kind of likeness which we call similarity; and which is really
compound equality. For the similarity of two creatures of the same species but of different
sizes, is of the same nature as the similarity of two geometrical figures. In either case,
any two parts of the one bear the same ratio to one another as the homologous parts of the
other. Given in any species, the proportions found to exist among the bones, and we may, and
zoologists do, predict from any one, the dimensions of the rest; just as, when knowing the
proportions subsisting among the parts of a geometrical figure, we may, from the length of
one, calculate the others. And if, in the case of similar geometrical figures, the similarity
can be established only by proving exactness of proportion among the homologous parts; if we
express this relation between two parts in the one, and the corresponding parts in the other,
by the formula A is to B as a is to b; if we otherwise write this, A to B = a to b; if, consequently,
the fact we prove is that the relation of A to B equals the relation of a to b; then it is
manifest that the fundamental conception of similarity is equality of relations.

With this explanation we shall be understood when we say that the notion of equality of relations
is the basis of all exact reasoning. Already it has been shown that reasoning in general is
a recognition of likeness of relations; and here we further find that while the notion of likeness
of things ultimately evolves the idea of simple equality, the notion of likeness of relations
evolves the idea of equality of relations: of which the one is the concrete germ of exact science,
while the other is its abstract germ.

Those who cannot understand how the recognition of similarity in creatures of the same kind
can have any alliance with reasoning, will get over the difficulty on remembering that the
phenomena among which equality of relations is thus perceived, are phenomena of the same order
and are present to the senses at the same time; while those among which developed reason perceives
relations, are generally neither of the same order, nor simultaneously present. And if further,
they will call to mind how Cuvier and Owen, from a single part of a creature, as a tooth, construct
the rest by a process of reasoning based on this equality of relations, they will see that
the two things are intimately connected, remote as they at first seem. But we anticipate. What
it concerns us here to observe is, that from familiarity with organic forms there simultaneously
arose the ideas of simple equality, and equality of relations.

At the same time, too, and out of the same mental processes, came the first distinct ideas
of number. In the earliest stages, the presentation of several like objects produced merely
an indefinite conception of multiplicity; as it still does among Australians, and Bushmen,
and Damaras, when the number presented exceeds three or four. With such a fact before us we
may safely infer that the first clear numerical conception was that of duality as contrasted
with unity. And this notion of duality must necessarily have grown up side by side with those
of likeness and equality; seeing that it is impossible to recognise the likeness of two things
without also perceiving that there are two. From the very beginning the conception of number
must have been as it is still, associated with the likeness or equality of the things numbered.
If we analyse it, we find that simple enumeration is a registration of repeated impressions
of any kind. That these may be capable of enumeration it is needful that they be more or less
alike; and before any absolutely true numerical results can be reached, it is requisite that
the units be absolutely equal. The only way in which we can establish a numerical relationship
between things that do not yield us like impressions, is to divide them into parts that do
yield us like impressions. Two unlike magnitudes of extension, force, time, weight, or what
not, can have their relative amounts estimated only by means of some small unit that is contained
many times in both; and even if we finally write down the greater one as a unit and the other
as a fraction of it, we state, in the denominator of the fraction, the number of parts into
which the unit must be divided to be comparable with the fraction.

It is, indeed, true, that by an evidently modern process of abstraction, we occasionally apply
numbers to unequal units, as the furniture at a sale or the various animals on a farm, simply
as so many separate entities; but no true result can be brought out by calculation with units
of this order. And, indeed, it is the distinctive peculiarity of the calculus in general, that
it proceeds on the hypothesis of that absolute equality of its abstract units, which no real
units possess; and that the exactness of its results holds only in virtue of this hypothesis.
The first ideas of number must necessarily then have been derived from like or equal magnitudes
as seen chiefly in organic objects; and as the like magnitudes most frequently observed magnitudes
of extension, it follows that geometry and arithmetic had a simultaneous origin.

Not only are the first distinct ideas of number co-ordinate with ideas of likeness and equality,
but the first efforts at numeration displayed the same relationship. On reading the accounts
of various savage tribes, we find that the method of counting by the fingers, still followed
by many children, is the aboriginal method. Neglecting the several cases in which the ability
to enumerate does not reach even to the number of fingers on one hand, there are many cases
in which it does not extend beyond ten--the limit of the simple finger notation. The fact that
in so many instances, remote, and seemingly unrelated nations, have adopted ten as their basic
number; together with the fact that in the remaining instances the basic number is either five
(the fingers of one hand) or twenty (the fingers and toes); almost of themselves show that
the fingers were the original units of numeration. The still surviving use of the word digit,
as the general name for a figure in arithmetic, is significant; and it is even said that our
word ten (Sax. tyn; Dutch, tien; German, zehn) means in its primitive expanded form two hands.
So that originally, to say there were ten things, was to say there were two hands of them.

From all which evidence it is tolerably clear that the earliest mode of conveying the idea
of any number of things, was by holding up as many fingers as there were things; that is--using
a symbol which was equal, in respect of multiplicity, to the group symbolised. For which inference
there is, indeed, strong confirmation in the recent statement that our own soldiers are even
now spontaneously adopting this device in their dealings with the Turks. And here it should
be remarked that in this recombination of the notion of equality with that of multiplicity,
by which the first steps in numeration are effected, we may see one of the earliest of those
inosculations between the diverging branches of science, which are afterwards of perpetual
occurrence.

Indeed, as this observation suggests, it will be well, before tracing the mode in which exact
science finally emerges from the merely approximate judgments of the senses, and showing the
non-serial evolution of its divisions, to note the non-serial character of those preliminary
processes of which all after development is a continuation. On reconsidering them it will be
seen that not only are they divergent growths from a common root, not only are they simultaneous
in their progress; but that they are mutual aids; and that none can advance without the rest.
That completeness of classification for which the unfolding of the perceptions paves the way,
is impossible without a corresponding progress in language, by which greater varieties of objects
are thinkable and expressible. On the one hand it is impossible to carry classification far
without names by which to designate the classes; and on the other hand it is impossible to
make language faster than things are classified.

Again, the multiplication of classes and the consequent narrowing of each class, itself involves
a greater likeness among the things classed together; and the consequent approach towards the
notion of complete likeness itself allows classification to be carried higher. Moreover, classification
necessarily advances pari passu with rationality--the classification of things with the classification
of relations. For things that belong to the same class are, by implication, things of which
the properties and modes of behaviour--the co-existences and sequences--are more or less the
same; and the recognition of this sameness of co-existences and sequences is reasoning. Whence
it follows that the advance of classification is necessarily proportionate to the advance of
generalisations. Yet further, the notion of likeness, both in things and relations, simultaneously
evolves by one process of culture the ideas of equality of things and equality of relations;
which are the respective bases of exact concrete reasoning and exact abstract reasoning--Mathematics
and Logic. And once more, this idea of equality, in the very process of being formed, necessarily
gives origin to two series of relations--those of magnitude and those of number: from which
arise geometry and the calculus. Thus the process throughout is one of perpetual subdivision
and perpetual intercommunication of the divisions. From the very first there has been that
consensus of different kinds of knowledge, answering to the consensus of the intellectual faculties,
which, as already said, must exist among the sciences.

Let us now go on to observe how, out of the notions of equality and number, as arrived at in
the manner described, there gradually arose the elements of quantitative prevision.

Equality, once having come to be definitely conceived, was readily applicable to other phenomena
than those of magnitude. Being predicable of all things producing indistinguishable impressions,
there naturally grew up ideas of equality in weights, sounds, colours, etc.; and indeed it
can scarcely be doubted that the occasional experience of equal weights, sounds, and colours,
had a share in developing the abstract conception of equality--that the ideas of equality in
size, relations, forces, resistances, and sensible properties in general, were evolved during
the same period. But however this may be, it is clear that as fast as the notion of equality
gained definiteness, so fast did that lowest kind of quantitative prevision which is achieved
without any instrumental aid, become possible.

The ability to estimate, however roughly, the amount of a foreseen result, implies the conception
that it will be equal to a certain imagined quantity; and the correctness of the estimate will
manifestly depend upon the accuracy at which the perceptions of sensible equality have arrived.
A savage with a piece of stone in his hand, and another piece lying before him of greater bulk
of the same kind (a fact which he infers from the equality of the two in colour and texture)
knows about what effort he must put forth to raise this other piece; and he judges accurately
in proportion to the accuracy with which he perceives that the one is twice, three times, four
times, etc., as large as the other; that is--in proportion to the precision of his ideas of
equality and number. And here let us not omit to notice that even in these vaguest of quantitative
previsions, the conception of equality of relations is also involved. For it is only in virtue
of an undefined perception that the relation between bulk and weight in the one stone is equal
to the relation between bulk and weight in the other, that even the roughest approximation
can be made.

But how came the transition from those uncertain perceptions of equality which the unaided
senses give, to the certain ones with which science deals? It came by placing the things compared
in juxtaposition. Equality being predicated of things which give us indistinguishable impressions,
and no accurate comparison of impressions being possible unless they occur in immediate succession,
it results that exactness of equality is ascertainable in proportion to the closeness of the
compared things. Hence the fact that when we wish to judge of two shades of colour whether
they are alike or not, we place them side by side; hence the fact that we cannot, with any
precision, say which of two allied sounds is the louder, or the higher in pitch, unless we
hear the one immediately after the other; hence the fact that to estimate the ratio of weights,
we take one in each hand, that we may compare their pressures by rapidly alternating in thought
from the one to the other; hence the fact, that in a piece of music we can continue to make
equal beats when the first beat has been given, but cannot ensure commencing with the same
length of beat on a future occasion; and hence, lastly, the fact, that of all magnitudes, those
of linear extension are those of which the equality is most accurately ascertainable, and those
to which by consequence all others have to be reduced. For it is the peculiarity of linear
extension that it alone allows its magnitudes to be placed in absolute juxtaposition, or, rather,
in coincident position; it alone can test the equality of two magnitudes by observing whether
they will coalesce, as two equal mathematical lines do, when placed between the same points;
it alone can test equality by trying whether it will become identity. Hence, then, the fact,
that all exact science is reducible, by an ultimate analysis, to results measured in equal
units of linear extension.

Still it remains to be noticed in what manner this determination of equality by comparison
of linear magnitudes originated. Once more may we perceive that surrounding natural objects
supplied the needful lessons. From the beginning there must have been a constant experience
of like things placed side by side--men standing and walking together; animals from the same
herd; fish from the same shoal. And the ceaseless repetition of these experiences could not
fail to suggest the observation, that the nearer together any objects were, the more visible
became any inequality between them. Hence the obvious device of putting in apposition things
of which it was desired to ascertain the relative magnitudes. Hence the idea of measure. And
here we suddenly come upon a group of facts which afford a solid basis to the remainder of
our argument; while they also furnish strong evidence in support of the foregoing speculations.
Those who look sceptically on this attempted rehabilitation of the earliest epochs of mental
development, and who more especially think that the derivation of so many primary notions from
organic forms is somewhat strained, will perhaps see more probability in the several hypotheses
that have been ventured, on discovering that all measures of extension and force originated
from the lengths and weights of organic bodies; and all measures of time from the periodic
phenomena of either organic or inorganic bodies.

Thus, among linear measures, the cubit of the Hebrews was the length of the forearm from the
elbow to the end of the middle finger; and the smaller scriptural dimensions are expressed
in hand-breadths and spans. The Egyptian cubit, which was similarly derived, was divided into
digits, which were finger-breadths; and each finger-breadth was more definitely expressed as
being equal to four grains of barley placed breadthwise. Other ancient measures were the orgyia
or stretch of the arms, the pace, and the palm. So persistent has been the use of these natural
units of length in the East, that even now some of the Arabs mete out cloth by the forearm.
So, too, is it with European measures. The foot prevails as a dimension throughout Europe,
and has done since the time of the Romans, by whom, also, it was used: its lengths in different
places varying not much more than men's feet vary. The heights of horses are still expressed
in hands. The inch is the length of the terminal joint of the thumb; as is clearly shown in
France, where pouce means both thumb and inch. Then we have the inch divided into three barley-corns.

So completely, indeed, have these organic dimensions served as the substrata of all mensuration,
that it is only by means of them that we can form any estimate of some of the ancient distances.
For example, the length of a degree on the Earth's surface, as determined by the Arabian astronomers
shortly after the death of Haroun-al-Raschid, was fifty-six of their miles. We know nothing
of their mile further than that it was 4000 cubits; and whether these were sacred cubits or
common cubits, would remain doubtful, but that the length of the cubit is given as twenty-seven
inches, and each inch defined as the thickness of six barley-grains. Thus one of the earliest
measurements of a degree comes down to us in barley-grains. Not only did organic lengths furnish
those approximate measures which satisfied men's needs in ruder ages, but they furnished also
the standard measures required in later times. One instance occurs in our own history. To remedy
the irregularities then prevailing, Henry I. commanded that the ulna, or ancient ell, which
answers to the modern yard, should be made of the exact length of his own arm.

Measures of weight again had a like derivation. Seeds seem commonly to have supplied the unit.
The original of the carat used for weighing in India is a small bean. Our own systems, both
troy and avoirdupois, are derived primarily from wheat-corns. Our smallest weight, the grain,
is a grain of wheat. This is not a speculation; it is an historically registered fact. Henry
III. enacted that an ounce should be the weight of 640 dry grains of wheat from the middle
of the ear. And as all the other weights are multiples or sub-multiples of this, it follows
that the grain of wheat is the basis of our scale. So natural is it to use organic bodies as
weights, before artificial weights have been established, or where they are not to be had,
that in some of the remoter parts of Ireland the people are said to be in the habit, even now,
of putting a man into the scales to serve as a measure for heavy commodities.

Similarly with time. Astronomical periodicity, and the periodicity of animal and vegetable
life, are simultaneously used in the first stages of progress for estimating epochs. The simplest
unit of time, the day, nature supplies ready made. The next simplest period, the mooneth or
month, is also thrust upon men's notice by the conspicuous changes constituting a lunation.
For larger divisions than these, the phenomena of the seasons, and the chief events from time
to time occurring, have been used by early and uncivilised races. Among the Egyptians the rising
of the Nile served as a mark. The New Zealanders were found to begin their year from the reappearance
of the Pleiades above the sea. One of the uses ascribed to birds, by the Greeks, was to indicate
the seasons by their migrations. Barrow describes the aboriginal Hottentot as denoting periods
by the number of moons before or after the ripening of one of his chief articles of food. He
further states that the Kaffir chronology is kept by the moon, and is registered by notches
on sticks--the death of a favourite chief, or the gaining of a victory, serving for a new era.
By which last fact, we are at once reminded that in early history, events are commonly recorded
as occurring in certain reigns, and in certain years of certain reigns: a proceeding which
practically made a king's reign a measure of duration.

And, as further illustrating the tendency to divide time by natural phenomena and natural events,
it may be noticed that even by our own peasantry the definite divisions of months and years
are but little used; and that they habitually refer to occurrences as "before sheep-shearing,"
or "after harvest," or "about the time when the squire died." It is manifest, therefore, that
the more or less equal periods perceived in Nature gave the first units of measure for time;
as did Nature's more or less equal lengths and weights give the first units of measure for
space and force.

It remains only to observe, as further illustrating the evolution of quantitative ideas after
this manner, that measures of value were similarly derived. Barter, in one form or other, is
found among all but the very lowest human races. It is obviously based upon the notion of equality
of worth. And as it gradually merges into trade by the introduction of some kind of currency,
we find that the measures of worth, constituting this currency, are organic bodies; in some
cases cowries, in others cocoa-nuts, in others cattle, in others pigs; among the American Indians
peltry or skins, and in Iceland dried fish.

Notions of exact equality and of measure having been reached, there came to be definite ideas
of relative magnitudes as being multiples one of another; whence the practice of measurement
by direct apposition of a measure. The determination of linear extensions by this process can
scarcely be called science, though it is a step towards it; but the determination of lengths
of time by an analogous process may be considered as one of the earliest samples of quantitative
prevision. For when it is first ascertained that the moon completes the cycle of her changes
in about thirty days--a fact known to most uncivilised tribes that can count beyond the number
of their fingers--it is manifest that it becomes possible to say in what number of days any
specified phase of the moon will recur; and it is also manifest that this prevision is effected
by an opposition of two times, after the same manner that linear space is measured by the opposition
of two lines. For to express the moon's period in days, is to say how many of these units of
measure are contained in the period to be measured--is to ascertain the distance between two
points in time by means of a scale of days, just as we ascertain the distance between two points
in space by a scale of feet or inches: and in each case the scale coincides with the thing
measured--mentally in the one; visibly in the other. So that in this simplest, and perhaps
earliest case of quantitative prevision, the phenomena are not only thrust daily upon men's
notice, but Nature is, as it were, perpetually repeating that process of measurement by observing
which the prevision is effected. And thus there may be significance in the remark which some
have made, that alike in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin, there is an affinity between the word meaning
moon, and that meaning measure.

This fact, that in very early stages of social progress it is known that the moon goes through
her changes in about thirty days, and that in about twelve moons the seasons return--this fact
that chronological astronomy assumes a certain scientific character even before geometry does;
while it is partly due to the circumstance that the astronomical divisions, day, month, and
year, are ready made for us, is partly due to the further circumstances that agricultural and
other operations were at first regulated astronomically, and that from the supposed divine
nature of the heavenly bodies their motions determined the periodical religious festivals.
As instances of the one we have the observation of the Egyptians, that the rising of the Nile
corresponded with the heliacal rising of Sirius; the directions given by Hesiod for reaping
and ploughing, according to the positions of the Pleiades; and his maxim that "fifty days after
the turning of the sun is a seasonable time for beginning a voyage." As instances of the other,
we have the naming of the days after the sun, moon, and planets; the early attempts among Eastern
nations to regulate the calendar so that the gods might not be offended by the displacement
of their sacrifices; and the fixing of the great annual festival of the Peruvians by the position
of the sun. In all which facts we see that, at first, science was simply an appliance of religion
and industry.

After the discoveries that a lunation occupies nearly thirty days, and that some twelve lunations
occupy a year--discoveries of which there is no historical account, but which may be inferred
as the earliest, from the fact that existing uncivilised races have made them--we come to the
first known astronomical records, which are those of eclipses. The Chaldeans were able to predict
these. "This they did, probably," says Dr. Whewell in his useful history, from which most of
the materials we are about to use will be drawn, "by means of their cycle of 223 months, or
about eighteen years; for at the end of this time, the eclipses of the moon begin to return,
at the same intervals and in the same order as at the beginning." Now this method of calculating
eclipses by means of a recurring cycle,--the Saros as they called it--is a more complex case
of prevision by means of coincidence of measures. For by what observations must the Chaldeans
have discovered this cycle? Obviously, as Delambre infers, by inspecting their registers; by
comparing the successive intervals; by finding that some of the intervals were alike; by seeing
that these equal intervals were eighteen years apart; by discovering that all the intervals
that were eighteen years apart were equal; by ascertaining that the intervals formed a series
which repeated itself, so that if one of the cycles of intervals were superposed on another
the divisions would fit. This once perceived, and it manifestly became possible to use the
cycle as a scale of time by which to measure out future periods. Seeing thus that the process
of so predicting eclipses is in essence the same as that of predicting the moon's monthly changes,
by observing the number of days after which they repeat--seeing that the two differ only in
the extent and irregularity of the intervals, it is not difficult to understand how such an
amount of knowledge should so early have been reached. And we shall be less surprised, on remembering
that the only things involved in these previsions were time and number; and that the time was
in a manner self-numbered.

Still, the ability to predict events recurring only after so long a period as eighteen years,
implies a considerable advance in civilisation--a considerable development of general knowledge;
and we have now to inquire what progress in other sciences accompanied, and was necessary to,
these astronomical previsions. In the first place, there must clearly have been a tolerably
efficient system of calculation. Mere finger-counting, mere head-reckoning, even with the aid
of a regular decimal notation, could not have sufficed for numbering the days in a year; much
less the years, months, and days between eclipses. Consequently there must have been a mode
of registering numbers; probably even a system of numerals. The earliest numerical records,
if we may judge by the practices of the less civilised races now existing, were probably kept
by notches cut on sticks, or strokes marked on walls; much as public-house scores are kept
now. And there seems reason to believe that the first numerals used were simply groups of straight
strokes, as some of the still-extant Roman ones are; leading us to suspect that these groups
of strokes were used to represent groups of fingers, as the groups of fingers had been used
to represent groups of objects--a supposition quite in conformity with the aboriginal system
of picture writing and its subsequent modifications. Be this so or not, however, it is manifest
that before the Chaldeans discovered their Saros, there must have been both a set of written
symbols serving for an extensive numeration, and a familiarity with the simpler rules of arithmetic.

Not only must abstract mathematics have made some progress, but concrete mathematics also.
It is scarcely possible that the buildings belonging to this era should have been laid out
and erected without any knowledge of geometry. At any rate, there must have existed that elementary
geometry which deals with direct measurement--with the apposition of lines; and it seems that
only after the discovery of those simple proceedings, by which right angles are drawn, and
relative positions fixed, could so regular an architecture be executed. In the case of the
other division of concrete mathematics--mechanics, we have definite evidence of progress. We
know that the lever and the inclined plane were employed during this period: implying that
there was a qualitative prevision of their effects, though not a quantitative one. But we know
more. We read of weights in the earliest records; and we find weights in ruins of the highest
antiquity. Weights imply scales, of which we have also mention; and scales involve the primary
theorem of mechanics in its least complicated form--involve not a qualitative but a quantitative
prevision of mechanical effects. And here we may notice how mechanics, in common with the other
exact sciences, took its rise from the simplest application of the idea of equality. For the
mechanical proposition which the scales involve, is, that if a lever with equal arms, have
equal weights suspended from them, the weights will remain at equal altitudes. And we may further
notice how, in this first step of rational mechanics, we see illustrated that truth awhile
since referred to, that as magnitudes of linear extension are the only ones of which the equality
is exactly ascertainable, the equalities of other magnitudes have at the outset to be determined
by means of them. For the equality of the weights which balance each other in scales, wholly
depends upon the equality of the arms: we can know that the weights are equal only by proving
that the arms are equal. And when by this means we have obtained a system of weights,--a set
of equal units of force, then does a science of mechanics become possible. Whence, indeed,
it follows, that rational mechanics could not possibly have any other starting-point than the
scales.

Let us further remember, that during this same period there was a limited knowledge of chemistry.
The many arts which we know to have been carried on must have been impossible without a generalised
experience of the modes in which certain bodies affect each other under special conditions.
In metallurgy, which was extensively practised, this is abundantly illustrated. And we even
have evidence that in some cases the knowledge possessed was, in a sense, quantitative. For,
as we find by analysis that the hard alloy of which the Egyptians made their cutting tools,
was composed of copper and tin in fixed proportions, there must have been an established prevision
that such an alloy was to be obtained only by mixing them in these proportions. It is true,
this was but a simple empirical generalisation; but so was the generalisation respecting the
recurrence of eclipses; so are the first generalisations of every science.

Respecting the simultaneous advance of the sciences during this early epoch, it only remains
to remark that even the most complex of them must have made some progress--perhaps even a greater
relative progress than any of the rest. For under what conditions only were the foregoing developments
possible? There first required an established and organised social system. A long continued
registry of eclipses; the building of palaces; the use of scales; the practice of metallurgy--alike
imply a fixed and populous nation. The existence of such a nation not only presupposes laws,
and some administration of justice, which we know existed, but it presupposes successful laws--laws
conforming in some degree to the conditions of social stability--laws enacted because it was
seen that the actions forbidden by them were dangerous to the State. We do not by any means
say that all, or even the greater part, of the laws were of this nature; but we do say, that
the fundamental ones were. It cannot be denied that the laws affecting life and property were
such. It cannot be denied that, however little these were enforced between class and class,
they were to a considerable extent enforced between members of the same class. It can scarcely
be questioned, that the administration of them between members of the same class was seen by
rulers to be necessary for keeping their subjects together. And knowing, as we do, that, other
things equal, nations prosper in proportion to the justness of their arrangements, we may fairly
infer that the very cause of the advance of these earliest nations out of aboriginal barbarism
was the greater recognition among them of the claims to life and property.

But supposition aside, it is clear that the habitual recognition of these claims in their laws
implied some prevision of social phenomena. Even thus early there was a certain amount of social
science. Nay, it may even be shown that there was a vague recognition of that fundamental principle
on which all the true social science is based--the equal rights of all to the free exercise
of their faculties. That same idea of equality which, as we have seen, underlies all other
science, underlies also morals and sociology. The conception of justice, which is the primary
one in morals; and the administration of justice, which is the vital condition of social existence;
are impossible without the recognition of a certain likeness in men's claims in virtue of their
common humanity. Equity literally means equalness; and if it be admitted that there were even
the vaguest ideas of equity in these primitive eras, it must be admitted that there was some
appreciation of the equalness of men's liberties to pursue the objects of life--some appreciation,
therefore, of the essential principle of national equilibrium.

Thus in this initial stage of the positive sciences, before geometry had yet done more than
evolve a few empirical rules--before mechanics had passed beyond its first theorem--before
astronomy had advanced from its merely chronological phase into the geometrical; the most involved
of the sciences had reached a certain degree of development--a development without which no
progress in other sciences was possible.

Only noting as we pass, how, thus early, we may see that the progress of exact science was
not only towards an increasing number of previsions, but towards previsions more accurately
quantitative--how, in astronomy, the recurring period of the moon's motions was by and by more
correctly ascertained to be nineteen years, or two hundred and thirty-five lunations; how Callipus
further corrected this Metonic cycle, by leaving out a day at the end of every seventy-six
years; and how these successive advances implied a longer continued registry of observations,
and the co-ordination of a greater number of facts--let us go on to inquire how geometrical
astronomy took its rise.

The first astronomical instrument was the gnomon. This was not only early in use in the East,
but it was found also among the Mexicans; the sole astronomical observations of the Peruvians
were made by it; and we read that 1100 B.C., the Chinese found that, at a certain place, the
length of the sun's shadow, at the summer solstice, was to the height of the gnomon as one
and a half to eight. Here again it is observable, not only that the instrument is found ready
made, but that Nature is perpetually performing the process of measurement. Any fixed, erect
object--a column, a dead palm, a pole, the angle of a building--serves for a gnomon; and it
needs but to notice the changing position of the shadow it daily throws to make the first step
in geometrical astronomy. How small this first step was, may be seen in the fact that the only
things ascertained at the outset were the periods of the summer and winter solstices, which
corresponded with the least and greatest lengths of the mid-shadow; and to fix which, it was
needful merely to mark the point to which each day's shadow reached.

And now let it not be overlooked that in the observing at what time during the next year this
extreme limit of the shadow was again reached, and in the inference that the sun had then arrived
at the same turning point in his annual course, we have one of the simplest instances of that
combined use of equal magnitudes and equal relations, by which all exact science, all quantitative
prevision, is reached. For the relation observed was between the length of the sun's shadow
and his position in the heavens; and the inference drawn was that when, next year, the extremity
of his shadow came to the same point, he occupied the same place. That is, the ideas involved
were, the equality of the shadows, and the equality of the relations between shadow and sun
in successive years. As in the case of the scales, the equality of relations here recognised
is of the simplest order. It is not as those habitually dealt with in the higher kinds of scientific
reasoning, which answer to the general type--the relation between two and three equals the
relation between six and nine; but it follows the type--the relation between two and three,
equals the relation between two and three; it is a case of not simply equal relations, but
coinciding relations. And here, indeed, we may see beautifully illustrated how the idea of
equal relations takes its rise after the same manner that that of equal magnitude does. As
already shown, the idea of equal magnitudes arose from the observed coincidence of two lengths
placed together; and in this case we have not only two coincident lengths of shadows, but two
coincident relations between sun and shadows.

From the use of the gnomon there naturally grew up the conception of angular measurements;
and with the advance of geometrical conceptions there came the hemisphere of Berosus, the equinoctial
armil, the solstitial armil, and the quadrant of Ptolemy--all of them employing shadows as
indices of the sun's position, but in combination with angular divisions. It is obviously out
of the question for us here to trace these details of progress. It must suffice to remark that
in all of them we may see that notion of equality of relations of a more complex kind, which
is best illustrated in the astrolabe, an instrument which consisted "of circular rims, movable
one within the other, or about poles, and contained circles which were to be brought into the
position of the ecliptic, and of a plane passing through the sun and the poles of the ecliptic"--an
instrument, therefore, which represented, as by a model, the relative positions of certain
imaginary lines and planes in the heavens; which was adjusted by putting these representative
lines and planes into parallelism and coincidence with the celestial ones; and which depended
for its use upon the perception that the relations between these representative lines and planes
were equal to the relations between those represented.

Were there space, we might go on to point out how the conception of the heavens as a revolving
hollow sphere, the discovery of the globular form of the earth, the explanation of the moon's
phases, and indeed all the successive steps taken, involved this same mental process. But we
must content ourselves with referring to the theory of eccentrics and epicycles, as a further
marked illustration of it. As first suggested, and as proved by Hipparchus to afford an explanation
of the leading irregularities in the celestial motions, this theory involved the perception
that the progressions, retrogressions, and variations of velocity seen in the heavenly bodies,
might be reconciled with their assumed uniform movement in circles, by supposing that the earth
was not in the centre of their orbits; or by supposing that they revolved in circles whose
centres revolved round the earth; or by both. The discovery that this would account for the
appearances, was the discovery that in certain geometrical diagrams the relations were such,
that the uniform motion of a point would, when looked at from a particular position, present
analogous irregularities; and the calculations of Hipparchus involved the belief that the relations
subsisting among these geometrical curves were equal to the relations subsisting among the
celestial orbits.

Leaving here these details of astronomical progress, and the philosophy of it, let us observe
how the relatively concrete science of geometrical astronomy, having been thus far helped forward
by the development of geometry in general, reacted upon geometry, caused it also to advance,
and was again assisted by it. Hipparchus, before making his solar and lunar tables, had to
discover rules for calculating the relations between the sides and angles of triangles--trigonometry
a subdivision of pure mathematics. Further, the reduction of the doctrine of the sphere to
the quantitative form needed for astronomical purposes, required the formation of a spherical
trigonometry, which was also achieved by Hipparchus. Thus both plane and spherical trigonometry,
which are parts of the highly abstract and simple science of extension, remained undeveloped
until the less abstract and more complex science of the celestial motions had need of them.
The fact admitted by M. Comte, that since Descartes the progress of the abstract division of
mathematics has been determined by that of the concrete division, is paralleled by the still
more significant fact that even thus early the progress of mathematics was determined by that
of astronomy.

And here, indeed, we may see exemplified the truth, which the subsequent history of science
frequently illustrates, that before any more abstract division makes a further advance, some
more concrete division must suggest the necessity for that advance--must present the new order
of questions to be solved. Before astronomy presented Hipparchus with the problem of solar
tables, there was nothing to raise the question of the relations between lines and angles;
the subject-matter of trigonometry had not been conceived. And as there must be subject-matter
before there can be investigation, it follows that the progress of the concrete divisions is
as necessary to that of the abstract, as the progress of the abstract to that of the concrete.

Just incidentally noticing the circumstance that the epoch we are describing witnessed the
evolution of algebra, a comparatively abstract division of mathematics, by the union of its
less abstract divisions, geometry and arithmetic--a fact proved by the earliest extant samples
of algebra, which are half algebraic, half geometric--we go on to observe that during the era
in which mathematics and astronomy were thus advancing, rational mechanics made its second
step; and something was done towards giving a quantitative form to hydrostatics, optics, and
harmonics. In each case we shall see, as before, how the idea of equality underlies all quantitative
prevision; and in what simple forms this idea is first applied.

As already shown, the first theorem established in mechanics was, that equal weights suspended
from a lever with equal arms would remain in equilibrium. Archimedes discovered that a lever
with unequal arms was in equilibrium when one weight was to its arm as the other arm to its
weight; that is--when the numerical relation between one weight and its arm was equal to the
numerical relation between the other arm and its weight.

The first advance made in hydrostatics, which we also owe to Archimedes, was the discovery
that fluids press equally in all directions; and from this followed the solution of the problem
of floating bodies: namely, that they are in equilibrium when the upward and downward pressures
are equal.

In optics, again, the Greeks found that the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of reflection;
and their knowledge reached no further than to such simple deductions from this as their geometry
sufficed for. In harmonics they ascertained the fact that three strings of equal lengths would
yield the octave, fifth and fourth, when strained by weights having certain definite ratios;
and they did not progress much beyond this. In the one of which cases we see geometry used
in elucidation of the laws of light; and in the other, geometry and arithmetic made to measure
the phenomena of sound.

Did space permit, it would be desirable here to describe the state of the less advanced sciences--to
point out how, while a few had thus reached the first stages of quantitative prevision, the
rest were progressing in qualitative prevision--how some small generalisations were made respecting
evaporation, and heat, and electricity, and magnetism, which, empirical as they were, did not
in that respect differ from the first generalisations of every science--how the Greek physicians
had made advances in physiology and pathology, which, considering the great imperfection of
our present knowledge, are by no means to be despised--how zoology had been so far systematised
by Aristotle, as, to some extent, enabled him from the presence of certain organs to predict
the presence of others--how in Aristotle's Politics there is some progress towards a scientific
conception of social phenomena, and sundry previsions respecting them--and how in the state
of the Greek societies, as well as in the writings of Greek philosophers, we may recognise
not only an increasing clearness in that conception of equity on which the social science is
based, but also some appreciation of the fact that social stability depends upon the maintenance
of equitable regulations. We might dwell at length upon the causes which retarded the development
of some of the sciences, as, for example, chemistry; showing that relative complexity had nothing
to do with it--that the oxidation of a piece of iron is a simpler phenomenon than the recurrence
of eclipses, and the discovery of carbonic acid less difficult than that of the precession
of the equinoxes--but that the relatively slow advance of chemical knowledge was due, partly
to the fact that its phenomena were not daily thrust on men's notice as those of astronomy
were; partly to the fact that Nature does not habitually supply the means, and suggest the
modes of investigation, as in the sciences dealing with time, extension, and force; and partly
to the fact that the great majority of the materials with which chemistry deals, instead of
being ready to hand, are made known only by the arts in their slow growth; and partly to the
fact that even when known, their chemical properties are not self-exhibited, but have to be
sought out by experiment.

Merely indicating all these considerations, however, let us go on to contemplate the progress
and mutual influence of the sciences in modern days; only parenthetically noticing how, on
the revival of the scientific spirit, the successive stages achieved exhibit the dominance
of the same law hitherto traced--how the primary idea in dynamics, a uniform force, was defined
by Galileo to be a force which generates equal velocities in equal successive times--how the
uniform action of gravity was first experimentally determined by showing that the time elapsing
before a body thrown up, stopped, was equal to the time it took to fall--how the first fact
in compound motion which Galileo ascertained was, that a body projected horizontally will have
a uniform motion onwards and a uniformly accelerated motion downwards; that is, will describe
equal horizontal spaces in equal times, compounded with equal vertical increments in equal
times--how his discovery respecting the pendulum was, that its oscillations occupy equal intervals
of time whatever their length--how the principle of virtual velocities which he established
is, that in any machine the weights that balance each other are reciprocally as their virtual
velocities; that is, the relation of one set of weights to their velocities equals the relation
of the other set of velocities to their weights; and how thus his achievements consisted in
showing the equalities of certain magnitudes and relations, whose equalities had not been previously
recognised.

When mechanics had reached the point to which Galileo brought it--when the simple laws of force
had been disentangled from the friction and atmospheric resistance by which all their earthly
manifestations are disguised--when progressing knowledge of physics had given a due insight
into these disturbing causes--when, by an effort of abstraction, it was perceived that all
motion would be uniform and rectilinear unless interfered with by external forces--and when
the various consequences of this perception had been worked out; then it became possible, by
the union of geometry and mechanics, to initiate physical astronomy. Geometry and mechanics
having diverged from a common root in men's sensible experiences; having, with occasional inosculations,
been separately developed, the one partly in connection with astronomy, the other solely by
analysing terrestrial movements; now join in the investigations of Newton to create a true
theory of the celestial motions. And here, also, we have to notice the important fact that,
in the very process of being brought jointly to bear upon astronomical problems, they are themselves
raised to a higher phase of development. For it was in dealing with the questions raised by
celestial dynamics that the then incipient infinitesimal calculus was unfolded by Newton and
his continental successors; and it was from inquiries into the mechanics of the solar system
that the general theorems of mechanics contained in the Principia,--many of them of purely
terrestrial application--took their rise. Thus, as in the case of Hipparchus, the presentation
of a new order of concrete facts to be analysed, led to the discovery of new abstract facts;
and these abstract facts having been laid hold of, gave means of access to endless groups of
concrete facts before incapable of quantitative treatment.

Meanwhile, physics had been carrying further that progress without which, as just shown, rational
mechanics could not be disentangled. In hydrostatics, Stevinus had extended and applied the
discovery of Archimedes. Torricelli had proved atmospheric pressure, "by showing that this
pressure sustained different liquids at heights inversely proportional to their densities;"
and Pascal "established the necessary diminution of this pressure at increasing heights in
the atmosphere:" discoveries which in part reduced this branch of science to a quantitative
form. Something had been done by Daniel Bernouilli towards the dynamics of fluids. The thermometer
had been invented; and a number of small generalisations reached by it. Huyghens and Newton
had made considerable progress in optics; Newton had approximately calculated the rate of transmission
of sound; and the continental mathematicians had succeeded in determining some of the laws
of sonorous vibrations. Magnetism and electricity had been considerably advanced by Gilbert.
Chemistry had got as far as the mutual neutralisation of acids and alkalies. And Leonardo da
Vinci had advanced in geology to the conception of the deposition of marine strata as the origin
of fossils. Our present purpose does not require that we should give particulars. All that
it here concerns us to do is to illustrate the consensus subsisting in this stage of growth,
and afterwards. Let us look at a few cases.

The theoretic law of the velocity of sound enunciated by Newton on purely mechanical considerations,
was found wrong by one-sixth. The error remained unaccounted for until the time of Laplace,
who, suspecting that the heat disengaged by the compression of the undulating strata of the
air, gave additional elasticity, and so produced the difference, made the needful calculations
and found he was right. Thus acoustics was arrested until thermology overtook and aided it.
When Boyle and Marriot had discovered the relation between the density of gases and the pressures
they are subject to; and when it thus became possible to calculate the rate of decreasing density
in the upper parts of the atmosphere, it also became possible to make approximate tables of
the atmospheric refraction of light. Thus optics, and with it astronomy, advanced with barology.
After the discovery of atmospheric pressure had led to the invention of the air-pump by Otto
Guericke; and after it had become known that evaporation increases in rapidity as atmospheric
pressure decreases; it became possible for Leslie, by evaporation in a vacuum, to produce the
greatest cold known; and so to extend our knowledge of thermology by showing that there is
no zero within reach of our researches. When Fourier had determined the laws of conduction
of heat, and when the Earth's temperature had been found to increase below the surface one
degree in every forty yards, there were data for inferring the past condition of our globe;
the vast period it has taken to cool down to its present state; and the immense age of the
solar system--a purely astronomical consideration.

Chemistry having advanced sufficiently to supply the needful materials, and a physiological
experiment having furnished the requisite hint, there came the discovery of galvanic electricity.
Galvanism reacting on chemistry disclosed the metallic bases of the alkalies, and inaugurated
the electro-chemical theory; in the hands of Oersted and Ampère it led to the laws of magnetic
action; and by its aid Faraday has detected significant facts relative to the constitution
of light. Brewster's discoveries respecting double refraction and dipolarisation proved the
essential truth of the classification of crystalline forms according to the number of axes,
by showing that the molecular constitution depends upon the axes. In these and in numerous
other cases, the mutual influence of the sciences has been quite independent of any supposed
hierarchical order. Often, too, their inter-actions are more complex than as thus instanced--involve
more sciences than two. One illustration of this must suffice. We quote it in full from the
History of the Inductive Sciences. In book xi., chap, ii., on "The Progress of the Electrical
Theory," Dr. Whewell writes:--

     "Thus at that period, mathematics was behind experiment, and a
     problem was proposed, in which theoretical results were wanted for
     comparison with observation, but could not be accurately obtained;
     as was the case in astronomy also, till the time of the approximate
     solution of the problem of three bodies, and the consequent
     formation of the tables of the moon and planets, on the theory of
     universal gravitation. After some time, electrical theory was
     relieved from this reproach, mainly in consequence of the progress
     which astronomy had occasioned in pure mathematics. About 1801
     there appeared in the Bulletin des Sciences, an exact solution of
     the problem of the distribution of electric fluid on a spheroid,
     obtained by Biot, by the application of the peculiar methods which
     Laplace had invented for the problem of the figure of the planets.
     And, in 1811, M. Poisson applied Laplace's artifices to the case of
     two spheres acting upon one another in contact, a case to which
     many of Coulomb's experiments were referrible; and the agreement of
     the results of theory and observation, thus extricated from
     Coulomb's numbers obtained above forty years previously, was very
     striking and convincing."

Not only do the sciences affect each other after this direct manner, but they affect each other
indirectly. Where there is no dependence, there is yet analogy--equality of relations; and
the discovery of the relations subsisting among one set of phenomena, constantly suggests a
search for the same relations among another set. Thus the established fact that the force of
gravitation varies inversely as the square of the distance, being recognised as a necessary
characteristic of all influences proceeding from a centre, raised the suspicion that heat and
light follow the same law; which proved to be the case--a suspicion and a confirmation which
were repeated in respect to the electric and magnetic forces. Thus again the discovery of the
polarisation of light led to experiments which ended in the discovery of the polarisation of
heat--a discovery that could never have been made without the antecedent one. Thus, too, the
known refrangibility of light and heat lately produced the inquiry whether sound also is not
refrangible; which on trial it turns out to be.

In some cases, indeed, it is only by the aid of conceptions derived from one class of phenomena
that hypotheses respecting other classes can be formed. The theory, at one time favoured, that
evaporation is a solution of water in air, was an assumption that the relation between water
and air is like the relation between salt and water; and could never have been conceived if
the relation between salt and water had not been previously known. Similarly the received theory
of evaporation--that it is a diffusion of the particles of the evaporating fluid in virtue
of their atomic repulsion--could not have been entertained without a foregoing experience of
magnetic and electric repulsions. So complete in recent days has become this consensus among
the sciences, caused either by the natural entanglement of their phenomena, or by analogies
in the relations of their phenomena, that scarcely any considerable discovery concerning one
order of facts now takes place, without very shortly leading to discoveries concerning other
orders.

To produce a tolerably complete conception of this process of scientific evolution, it would
be needful to go back to the beginning, and trace in detail the growth of classifications and
nomenclatures; and to show how, as subsidiary to science, they have acted upon it, and it has
reacted upon them. We can only now remark that, on the one hand, classifications and nomenclatures
have aided science by continually subdividing the subject-matter of research, and giving fixity
and diffusion to the truths disclosed; and that on the other hand, they have caught from it
that increasing quantitativeness, and that progress from considerations touching single phenomena
to considerations touching the relations among many phenomena, which we have been describing.

Of this last influence a few illustrations must be given. In chemistry it is seen in the facts,
that the dividing of matter into the four elements was ostensibly based upon the single property
of weight; that the first truly chemical division into acid and alkaline bodies, grouped together
bodies which had not simply one property in common, but in which one property was constantly
related to many others; and that the classification now current, places together in groups
supporters of combustion, metallic and non-metallic bases, acids, salts, etc., bodies which
are often quite unlike in sensible qualities, but which are like in the majority of their relations
to other bodies. In mineralogy again, the first classifications were based upon differences
in aspect, texture, and other physical attributes. Berzelius made two attempts at a classification
based solely on chemical constitution. That now current, recognises as far as possible the
relations between physical and chemical characters. In botany the earliest classes formed were
trees, shrubs, and herbs: magnitude being the basis of distinction. Dioscorides divided vegetables
into aromatic, alimentary, medicinal, and vinous: a division of chemical character. Cæsalpinus
classified them by the seeds, and seed-vessels, which he preferred because of the relations
found to subsist between the character of the fructification and the general character of the
other parts.

While the "natural system" since developed, carrying out the doctrine of Linnæus, that "natural
orders must be formed by attention not to one or two, but to all the parts of plants," bases
its divisions on like peculiarities which are found to be constantly related to the greatest
number of other like peculiarities. And similarly in zoology, the successive classifications,
from having been originally determined by external and often subordinate characters not indicative
of the essential nature, have been gradually more and more determined by those internal and
fundamental differences, which have uniform relations to the greatest number of other differences.
Nor shall we be surprised at this analogy between the modes of progress of positive science
and classification, when we bear in mind that both proceed by making generalisations; that
both enable us to make previsions differing only in their precision; and that while the one
deals with equal properties and relations, the other deals with properties and relations that
approximate towards equality in variable degrees.

Without further argument, it will, we think, be sufficiently clear that the sciences are none
of them separately evolved--are none of them independent either logically or historically;
but that all of them have, in a greater or less degree, required aid and reciprocated it. Indeed,
it needs but to throw aside these, and contemplate the mixed character of surrounding phenomena,
to at once see that these notions of division and succession in the kinds of knowledge are
none of them actually true, but are simple scientific fictions: good, if regarded merely as
aids to study; bad, if regarded as representing realities in Nature. Consider them critically,
and no facts whatever are presented to our senses uncombined with other facts--no facts whatever
but are in some degree disguised by accompanying facts: disguised in such a manner that all
must be partially understood before any one can be understood. If it be said, as by M. Comte,
that gravitating force should be treated of before other forces, seeing that all things are
subject to it, it may on like grounds be said that heat should be first dealt with; seeing
that thermal forces are everywhere in action; that the ability of any portion of matter to
manifest visible gravitative phenomena depends on its state of aggregation, which is determined
by heat; that only by the aid of thermology can we explain those apparent exceptions to the
gravitating tendency which are presented by steam and smoke, and so establish its universality,
and that, indeed, the very existence of the solar system in a solid form is just as much a
question of heat as it is one of gravitation.

Take other cases:--All phenomena recognised by the eyes, through which only are the data of
exact science ascertainable, are complicated with optical phenomena; and cannot be exhaustively
known until optical principles are known. The burning of a candle cannot be explained without
involving chemistry, mechanics, thermology. Every wind that blows is determined by influences
partly solar, partly lunar, partly hygrometric; and implies considerations of fluid equilibrium
and physical geography. The direction, dip, and variations of the magnetic needle, are facts
half terrestrial, half celestial--are caused by earthly forces which have cycles of change
corresponding with astronomical periods. The flowing of the gulf-stream and the annual migration
of icebergs towards the equator, depending as they do on the balancing of the centripetal and
centrifugal forces acting on the ocean, involve in their explanation the Earth's rotation and
spheroidal form, the laws of hydrostatics, the relative densities of cold and warm water, and
the doctrines of evaporation. It is no doubt true, as M. Comte says, that "our position in
the solar system, and the motions, form, size, equilibrium of the mass of our world among the
planets, must be known before we can understand the phenomena going on at its surface." But,
fatally for his hypothesis, it is also true that we must understand a great part of the phenomena
going on at its surface before we can know its position, etc., in the solar system. It is not
simply that, as we have already shown, those geometrical and mechanical principles by which
celestial appearances are explained, were first generalised from terrestrial experiences; but
it is that the very obtainment of correct data, on which to base astronomical generalisations,
implies advanced terrestrial physics.

Until after optics had made considerable advance, the Copernican system remained but a speculation.
A single modern observation on a star has to undergo a careful analysis by the combined aid
of various sciences--has to be digested by the organism of the sciences; which have severally
to assimilate their respective parts of the observation, before the essential fact it contains
is available for the further development of astronomy. It has to be corrected not only for
nutation of the earth's axis and for precession of the equinoxes, but for aberration and for
refraction; and the formation of the tables by which refraction is calculated, presupposes
knowledge of the law of decreasing density in the upper atmospheric strata; of the law of decreasing
temperature, and the influence of this on the density; and of hygrometric laws as also affecting
density. So that, to get materials for further advance, astronomy requires not only the indirect
aid of the sciences which have presided over the making of its improved instruments, but the
direct aid of an advanced optics, of barology, of thermology, of hygrometry; and if we remember
that these delicate observations are in some cases registered electrically, and that they are
further corrected for the "personal equation"--the time elapsing between seeing and registering,
which varies with different observers--we may even add electricity and psychology. If, then,
so apparently simple a thing as ascertaining the position of a star is complicated with so
many phenomena, it is clear that this notion of the independence of the sciences, or certain
of them, will not hold.

Whether objectively independent or not, they cannot be subjectively so--they cannot have independence
as presented to our consciousness; and this is the only kind of independence with which we
are concerned. And here, before leaving these illustrations, and especially this last one,
let us not omit to notice how clearly they exhibit that increasingly active consensus of the
sciences which characterises their advancing development. Besides finding that in these later
times a discovery in one science commonly causes progress in others; besides finding that a
great part of the questions with which modern science deals are so mixed as to require the
co-operation of many sciences for their solution; we find in this last case that, to make a
single good observation in the purest of the natural sciences, requires the combined assistance
of half a dozen other sciences.

Perhaps the clearest comprehension of the interconnected growth of the sciences may be obtained
by contemplating that of the arts, to which it is strictly analogous, and with which it is
inseparably bound up. Most intelligent persons must have been, at one time or other, struck
with the vast array of antecedents pre-supposed by one of our processes of manufacture. Let
him trace the production of a printed cotton, and consider all that is implied by it. There
are the many successive improvements through which the power-looms reached their present perfection;
there is the steam-engine that drives them, having its long history from Papin downwards; there
are the lathes in which its cylinder was bored, and the string of ancestral lathes from which
those lathes proceeded; there is the steam-hammer under which its crank shaft was welded; there
are the puddling-furnaces, the blast-furnaces, the coal-mines and the iron-mines needful for
producing the raw material; there are the slowly improved appliances by which the factory was
built, and lighted, and ventilated; there are the printing engine, and the die house, and the
colour laboratory with its stock of materials from all parts of the world, implying cochineal-culture,
logwood-cutting, indigo-growing; there are the implements used by the producers of cotton,
the gins by which it is cleaned, the elaborate machines by which it is spun: there are the
vessels in which cotton is imported, with the building-slips, the rope-yards, the sail-cloth
factories, the anchor-forges, needful for making them; and besides all these directly necessary
antecedents, each of them involving many others, there are the institutions which have developed
the requisite intelligence, the printing and publishing arrangements which have spread the
necessary information, the social organisation which has rendered possible such a complex co-operation
of agencies.

Further analysis would show that the many arts thus concerned in the economical production
of a child's frock, have each of them been brought to its present efficiency by slow steps
which the other arts have aided; and that from the beginning this reciprocity has been ever
on the increase. It needs but on the one hand to consider how utterly impossible it is for
the savage, even with ore and coal ready, to produce so simple a thing as an iron hatchet;
and then to consider, on the other hand, that it would have been impracticable among ourselves,
even a century ago, to raise the tubes of the Britannia bridge from lack of the hydraulic press;
to at once see how mutually dependent are the arts, and how all must advance that each may
advance. Well, the sciences are involved with each other in just the same manner. They are,
in fact, inextricably woven into the same complex web of the arts; and are only conventionally
independent of it. Originally the two were one. How to fix the religious festivals; when to
sow: how to weigh commodities; and in what manner to measure ground; were the purely practical
questions out of which arose astronomy, mechanics, geometry. Since then there has been a perpetual
inosculation of the sciences and the arts. Science has been supplying art with truer generalisations
and more completely quantitative previsions. Art has been supplying science with better materials
and more perfect instruments. And all along the interdependence has been growing closer, not
only between art and science, but among the arts themselves, and among the sciences themselves.

How completely the analogy holds throughout, becomes yet clearer when we recognise the fact
that the sciences are arts to each other. If, as occurs in almost every case, the fact to be
analysed by any science, has first to be prepared--to be disentangled from disturbing facts
by the afore discovered methods of other sciences; the other sciences so used, stand in the
position of arts. If, in solving a dynamical problem, a parallelogram is drawn, of which the
sides and diagonal represent forces, and by putting magnitudes of extension for magnitudes
of force a measurable relation is established between quantities not else to be dealt with;
it may be fairly said that geometry plays towards mechanics much the same part that the fire
of the founder plays towards the metal he is going to cast. If, in analysing the phenomena
of the coloured rings surrounding the point of contact between two lenses, a Newton ascertains
by calculation the amount of certain interposed spaces, far too minute for actual measurement;
he employs the science of number for essentially the same purpose as that for which the watchmaker
employs tools. If, before writing down his observation on a star, the astronomer has to separate
from it all the errors resulting from atmospheric and optical laws, it is manifest that the
refraction-tables, and logarithm-books, and formulæ, which he successively uses, serve him
much as retorts, and filters, and cupels serve the assayer who wishes to separate the pure
gold from all accompanying ingredients.

So close, indeed, is the relationship, that it is impossible to say where science begins and
art ends. All the instruments of the natural philosopher are the products of art; the adjusting
one of them for use is an art; there is art in making an observation with one of them; it requires
art properly to treat the facts ascertained; nay, even the employing established generalisations
to open the way to new generalisations, may be considered as art. In each of these cases previously
organised knowledge becomes the implement by which new knowledge is got at: and whether that
previously organised knowledge is embodied in a tangible apparatus or in a formula, matters
not in so far as its essential relation to the new knowledge is concerned. If, as no one will
deny, art is applied knowledge, then such portion of a scientific investigation as consists
of applied knowledge is art. So that we may even say that as soon as any prevision in science
passes out of its originally passive state, and is employed for reaching other previsions,
it passes from theory into practice--becomes science in action--becomes art. And when we thus
see how purely conventional is the ordinary distinction, how impossible it is to make any real
separation--when we see not only that science and art were originally one; that the arts have
perpetually assisted each other; that there has been a constant reciprocation of aid between
the sciences and arts; but that the sciences act as arts to each other, and that the established
part of each science becomes an art to the growing part--when we recognise the closeness of
these associations, we shall the more clearly perceive that as the connection of the arts with
each other has been ever becoming more intimate; as the help given by sciences to arts and
by arts to sciences, has been age by age increasing; so the interdependence of the sciences
themselves has been ever growing greater, their mutual relations more involved, their consensus
more active.

       *       *       *       *       *

In here ending our sketch of the Genesis of Science, we are conscious of having done the subject
but scant justice. Two difficulties have stood in our way: one, the having to touch on so many
points in such small space; the other, the necessity of treating in serial arrangement a process
which is not serial--a difficulty which must ever attend all attempts to delineate processes
of development, whatever their special nature. Add to which, that to present in anything like
completeness and proportion, even the outlines of so vast and complex a history, demands years
of study. Nevertheless, we believe that the evidence which has been assigned suffices to substantiate
the leading propositions with which we set out. Inquiry into the first stages of science confirms
the conclusion which we drew from the analysis of science as now existing, that it is not distinct
from common knowledge, but an outgrowth from it--an extension of the perception by means of
the reason.

That which we further found by analysis to form the more specific characteristic of scientific
previsions, as contrasted with the previsions of uncultured intelligence--their quantitativeness--we
also see to have been the characteristic alike in the initial steps in science, and of all
the steps succeeding them. The facts and admissions cited in disproof of the assertion that
the sciences follow one another, both logically and historically, in the order of their decreasing
generality, have been enforced by the sundry instances we have met with, in which the more
general or abstract sciences have been advanced only at the instigation of the more special
or concrete--instances serving to show that a more general science as much owes its progress
to the presentation of new problems by a more special science, as the more special science
owes its progress to the solutions which the more general science is thus led to attempt--instances
therefore illustrating the position that scientific advance is as much from the special to
the general as from the general to the special.

Quite in harmony with this position we find to be the admissions that the sciences are as branches
of one trunk, and that they were at first cultivated simultaneously; and this harmony becomes
the more marked on finding, as we have done, not only that the sciences have a common root,
but that science in general has a common root with language, classification, reasoning, art;
that throughout civilisation these have advanced together, acting and reacting upon each other
just as the separate sciences have done; and that thus the development of intelligence in all
its divisions and subdivisions has conformed to this same law which we have shown that the
sciences conform to. From all which we may perceive that the sciences can with no greater propriety
be arranged in a succession, than language, classification, reasoning, art, and science, can
be arranged in a succession; that, however needful a succession may be for the convenience
of books and catalogues, it must be recognised merely as a convention; and that so far from
its being the function of a philosophy of the sciences to establish a hierarchy, it is its
function to show that the linear arrangements required for literary purposes, have none of
them any basis either in Nature or History.

There is one further remark we must not omit--a remark touching the importance of the question
that has been discussed. Unfortunately it commonly happens that topics of this abstract nature
are slighted as of no practical moment; and, we doubt not, that many will think it of very
little consequence what theory respecting the genesis of science may be entertained. But the
value of truths is often great, in proportion as their generality is wide. Remote as they seem
from practical application, the highest generalisations are not unfrequently the most potent
in their effects, in virtue of their influence on all those subordinate generalisations which
regulate practice. And it must be so here. Whenever established, a correct theory of the historical
development of the sciences must have an immense effect upon education; and, through education,
upon civilisation. Greatly as we differ from him in other respects, we agree with M. Comte
in the belief that, rightly conducted, the education of the individual must have a certain
correspondence with the evolution of the race.

No one can contemplate the facts we have cited in illustration of the early stages of science,
without recognising the necessity of the processes through which those stages were reached--a
necessity which, in respect to the leading truths, may likewise be traced in all after stages.
This necessity, originating in the very nature of the phenomena to be analysed and the faculties
to be employed, more or less fully applies to the mind of the child as to that of the savage.
We say more or less fully, because the correspondence is not special but general only. Were
the environment the same in both cases, the correspondence would be complete. But though the
surrounding material out of which science is to be organised, is, in many cases, the same to
the juvenile mind and the aboriginal mind, it is not so throughout; as, for instance, in the
case of chemistry, the phenomena of which are accessible to the one, but were inaccessible
to the other. Hence, in proportion as the environment differs, the course of evolution must
differ. After admitting sundry exceptions, however, there remains a substantial parallelism;
and, if so, it becomes of great moment to ascertain what really has been the process of scientific
evolution. The establishment of an erroneous theory must be disastrous in its educational results;
while the establishments of a true one must eventually be fertile in school-reforms and consequent
social benefits.

[1] British Quarterly Review, July 1854.

[2] It is somewhat curious that the author of The Plurality of Worlds, with quite other aims,
should have persuaded himself into similar conclusions.

ON THE PHYSIOLOGY OF LAUGHTER[1]

Why do we smile when a child puts on a man's hat? or what induces us to laugh on reading that
the corpulent Gibbon was unable to rise from his knees after making a tender declaration? The
usual reply to such questions is, that laughter results from a perception of incongruity. Even
were there not on this reply the obvious criticism that laughter often occurs from extreme
pleasure or from mere vivacity, there would still remain the real problem--How comes a sense
of the incongruous to be followed by these peculiar bodily actions? Some have alleged that
laughter is due to the pleasure of a relative self-elevation, which we feel on seeing the humiliation
of others. But this theory, whatever portion of truth it may contain, is, in the first place,
open to the fatal objection, that there are various humiliations to others which produce in
us anything but laughter; and, in the second place, it does not apply to the many instances
in which no one's dignity is implicated: as when we laugh at a good pun. Moreover, like the
other, it is merely a generalisation of certain conditions to laughter; and not an explanation
of the odd movements which occur under these conditions. Why, when greatly delighted, or impressed
with certain unexpected contrasts of ideas, should there be a contraction of particular facial
muscles, and particular muscles of the chest and abdomen? Such answer to this question as may
be possible can be rendered only by physiology.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every child has made the attempt to hold the foot still while it is tickled, and has failed;
and probably there is scarcely any one who has not vainly tried to avoid winking, when a hand
has been suddenly passed before the eyes. These examples of muscular movements which occur
independently of the will, or in spite of it, illustrate what physiologists call reflex-action;
as likewise do sneezing and coughing. To this class of cases, in which involuntary motions
are accompanied by sensations, has to be added another class of cases, in which involuntary
motions are unaccompanied by sensations:--instance the pulsations of the heart; the contractions
of the stomach during digestion. Further, the great mass of seemingly-voluntary acts in such
creatures as insects, worms, molluscs, are considered by physiologists to be as purely automatic
as is the dilatation or closure of the iris under variations in quantity of light; and similarly
exemplify the law, that an impression on the end of an afferent nerve is conveyed to some ganglionic
centre, and is thence usually reflected along an efferent nerve to one or more muscles which
it causes to contract.

In a modified form this principle holds with voluntary acts. Nervous excitation always tends
to beget muscular motion; and when it rises to a certain intensity, always does beget it. Not
only in reflex actions, whether with or without sensation, do we see that special nerves, when
raised to a state of tension, discharge themselves on special muscles with which they are indirectly
connected; but those external actions through which we read the feelings of others, show us
that under any considerable tension, the nervous system in general discharges itself on the
muscular system in general: either with or without the guidance of the will. The shivering
produced by cold, implies irregular muscular contractions, which, though at first only partly
involuntary, become, when the cold is extreme, almost wholly involuntary. When you have severely
burnt your finger, it is very difficult to preserve a dignified composure: contortion of face,
or movement of limb, is pretty sure to follow. If a man receives good news with neither change
of feature nor bodily motion, it is inferred that he is not much pleased, or that he has extraordinary
self-control--either inference implying that joy almost universally produces contraction of
the muscles; and so, alters the expression, or attitude, or both. And when we hear of the feats
of strength which men have performed when their lives were at stake--when we read how, in the
energy of despair, even paralytic patients have regained for a time the use of their limbs,
we see still more clearly the relations between nervous and muscular excitements. It becomes
manifest both that emotions and sensations tend to generate bodily movements and that the movements
are vehement in proportion as the emotions or sensations are intense.[2]

This, however, is not the sole direction in which nervous excitement expends itself. Viscera
as well as muscles may receive the discharge. That the heart and blood-vessels (which, indeed,
being all contractile, may in a restricted sense be classed with the muscular system) are quickly
affected by pleasures and pains, we have daily proved to us. Every sensation of any acuteness
accelerates the pulse; and how sensitive the heart is to emotions, is testified by the familiar
expressions which use heart and feeling as convertible terms. Similarly with the digestive
organs. Without detailing the various ways in which these may be influenced by our mental states,
it suffices to mention the marked benefits derived by dyspeptics, as well as other invalids,
from cheerful society, welcome news, change of scene, to show how pleasurable feeling stimulates
the viscera in general into greater activity.

There is still another direction in which any excited portion of the nervous system may discharge
itself; and a direction in which it usually does discharge itself when the excitement is not
strong. It may pass on the stimulus to some other portion of the nervous system. This is what
occurs in quiet thinking and feeling. The successive states which constitute consciousness,
result from this. Sensations excite ideas and emotions; these in their turns arouse other ideas
and emotions; and so, continuously. That is to say, the tension existing in particular nerves,
or groups of nerves, when they yield us certain sensations, ideas, or emotions, generates an
equivalent tension in some other nerves, or groups of nerves, with which there is a connection:
the flow of energy passing on, the one idea or feeling dies in producing the next.

Thus, then, while we are totally unable to comprehend how the excitement of certain nerves
should generate feeling--while, in the production of consciousness by physical agents acting
on physical structure, we come to an absolute mystery never to be solved; it is yet quite possible
for us to know by observation what are the successive forms which this absolute mystery may
take. We see that there are three channels along which nerves in a state of tension may discharge
themselves; or rather, I should say, three classes of channels. They may pass on the excitement
to other nerves that have no direct connections with the bodily members, and may so cause other
feelings and ideas; or they may pass on the excitement to one or more motor nerves, and so
cause muscular contractions; or they may pass on the excitement to nerves which supply the
viscera, and may so stimulate one or more of these.

For simplicity's sake, I have described these as alternative routes, one or other of which
any current of nerve-force must take; thereby, as it may be thought, implying that such current
will be exclusively confined to some one of them. But this is by no means the case. Rarely,
if ever, does it happen that a state of nervous tension, present to consciousness as a feeling,
expends itself in one direction only. Very generally it may be observed to expend itself in
two; and it is probable that the discharge is never absolutely absent from any one of the three.
There is, however, variety in the proportions in which the discharge is divided among these
different channels under different circumstances. In a man whose fear impels him to run, the
mental tension generated is only in part transformed into a muscular stimulus: there is a surplus
which causes a rapid current of ideas. An agreeable state of feeling produced, say by praise,
is not wholly used up in arousing the succeeding phase of the feeling, and the new ideas appropriate
to it; but a certain portion overflows into the visceral nervous system, increasing the action
of the heart, and probably facilitating digestion. And here we come upon a class of considerations
and facts which open the way to a solution of our special problem.

For starting with the unquestionable truth, that at any moment the existing quantity of liberated
nerve-force, which in an inscrutable way produces in us the state we call feeling, must expend
itself in some direction--must generate an equivalent manifestation of force somewhere--it
clearly follows that, if of the several channels it may take, one is wholly or partially closed,
more must be taken by the others; or that if two are closed, the discharge along the remaining
one must be more intense; and that, conversely, should anything determine an unusual efflux
in one direction, there will be a diminished efflux in other directions.

Daily experience illustrates these conclusions. It is commonly remarked, that the suppression
of external signs of feeling, makes feeling more intense. The deepest grief is silent grief.
Why? Because the nervous excitement not discharged in muscular action, discharges itself in
other nervous excitements--arouses more numerous and more remote associations of melancholy
ideas, and so increases the mass of feelings. People who conceal their anger are habitually
found to be more revengeful than those who explode in loud speech and vehement action. Why?
Because, as before, the emotion is reflected back, accumulates, and intensifies. Similarly,
men who, as proved by their powers of representation, have the keenest appreciation of the
comic, are usually able to do and say the most ludicrous things with perfect gravity.

On the other hand, all are familiar with the truth that bodily activity deadens emotion. Under
great irritation we get relief by walking about rapidly. Extreme effort in the bootless attempt
to achieve a desired end greatly diminishes the intensity of the desire. Those who are forced
to exert themselves after misfortunes, do not suffer nearly so much as those who remain quiescent.
If any one wishes to check intellectual excitement, he cannot choose a more efficient method
than running till he is exhausted. Moreover, these cases, in which the production of feeling
and thought is hindered by determining the nervous energy towards bodily movements, have their
counterparts in the cases in which bodily movements are hindered by extra absorption of nervous
energy in sudden thoughts and feelings. If, when walking along, there flashes on you an idea
that creates great surprise, hope, or alarm, you stop; or if sitting cross-legged, swinging
your pendent foot, the movement is at once arrested. From the viscera, too, intense mental
action abstracts energy. Joy, disappointment, anxiety, or any moral perturbation rising to
a great height, will destroy appetite; or if food has been taken, will arrest digestion; and
even a purely intellectual activity, when extreme, will do the like.

Facts, then, fully bear out these à priori inferences, that the nervous excitement at any moment
present to consciousness as feeling, must expend itself in some way or other; that of the three
classes of channels open to it, it must take one, two, or more, according to circumstances;
that the closure or obstruction of one, must increase the discharge through the others; and
conversely, that if to answer some demand, the efflux of nervous energy in one direction is
unusually great, there must be a corresponding decrease of the efflux in other directions.
Setting out from these premises, let us now see what interpretation is to be put on the phenomena
of laughter.

       *       *       *       *       *

That laughter is a display of muscular excitement, and so illustrates the general law that
feeling passing a certain pitch habitually vents itself in bodily action, scarcely needs pointing
out. It perhaps needs pointing out, however, that strong feeling of almost any kind produces
this result. It is not a sense of the ludicrous, only, which does it; nor are the various forms
of joyous emotion the sole additional causes. We have, besides, the sardonic laughter and the
hysterical laughter, which result from mental distress; to which must be added certain sensations,
as tickling, and, according to Mr. Bain, cold, and some kinds of acute pain.

Strong feeling, mental or physical, being, then, the general cause of laughter, we have to
note that the muscular actions constituting it are distinguished from most others by this,
that they are purposeless. In general, bodily motions that are prompted by feelings are directed
to special ends; as when we try to escape a danger, or struggle to secure a gratification.
But the movements of chest and limbs which we make when laughing have no object. And now remark
that these quasi-convulsive contractions of the muscles, having no object, but being results
of an uncontrolled discharge of energy, we may see whence arise their special characters--how
it happens that certain classes of muscles are affected first, and then certain other classes.
For an overflow of nerve-force, undirected by any motive, will manifestly take first the most
habitual routes; and if these do not suffice, will next overflow into the less habitual ones.
Well, it is through the organs of speech that feeling passes into movement with the greatest
frequency. The jaws, tongue, and lips are used not only to express strong irritation or gratification;
but that very moderate flow of mental energy which accompanies ordinary conversation, finds
its chief vent through this channel. Hence it happens that certain muscles round the mouth,
small and easy to move, are the first to contract under pleasurable emotion. The class of muscles
which, next after those of articulation, are most constantly set in action (or extra action,
we should say) by feelings of all kinds, are those of respiration. Under pleasurable or painful
sensations we breathe more rapidly: possibly as a consequence of the increased demand for oxygenated
blood. The sensations that accompany exertion also bring on hard-breathing; which here more
evidently responds to the physiological needs. And emotions, too, agreeable and disagreeable,
both, at first, excite respiration; though the last subsequently depress it. That is to say,
of the bodily muscles, the respiratory are more constantly implicated than any others in those
various acts which our feelings impel us to; and, hence, when there occurs an undirected discharge
of nervous energy into the muscular system, it happens that, if the quantity be considerable,
it convulses not only certain of the articulatory and vocal muscles, but also those which expel
air from the lungs.

Should the feeling to be expended be still greater in amount--too great to find vent in these
classes of muscles--another class comes into play. The upper limbs are set in motion. Children
frequently clap their hands in glee; by some adults the hands are rubbed together; and others,
under still greater intensity of delight, slap their knees and sway their bodies backwards
and forwards. Last of all, when the other channels for the escape of the surplus nerve-force
have been filled to overflowing, a yet further and less-used group of muscles is spasmodically
affected: the head is thrown back and the spine bent inwards--there is a slight degree of what
medical men call opisthotonos. Thus, then, without contending that the phenomena of laughter
in all their details are to be so accounted for, we see that in their ensemble they conform
to these general principles:--that feeling excites to muscular action; that when the muscular
action is unguided by a purpose, the muscles first affected are those which feeling most habitually
stimulates; and that as the feeling to be expended increases in quantity, it excites an increasing
number of muscles, in a succession determined by the relative frequency with which they respond
to the regulated dictates of feeling.

There still, however, remains the question with which we set out. The explanation here given
applies only to the laughter produced by acute pleasure or pain: it does not apply to the laughter
that follows certain perceptions of incongruity. It is an insufficient explanation that, in
these cases, laughter is a result of the pleasure we take in escaping from the restraint of
grave feelings. That this is a part-cause is true. Doubtless very often, as Mr. Bain says,
"it is the coerced form of seriousness and solemnity without the reality that gives us that
stiff position from which a contact with triviality or vulgarity relieves us, to our uproarious
delight." And in so far as mirth is caused by the gush of agreeable feeling that follows the
cessation of mental strain, it further illustrates the general principle above set forth. But
no explanation is thus afforded of the mirth which ensues when the short silence between the
andante and allegro in one of Beethoven's symphonies, is broken by a loud sneeze. In this,
and hosts of like cases, the mental tension is not coerced but spontaneous--not disagreeable
but agreeable; and the coming impressions to which the attention is directed, promise a gratification
that few, if any, desire to escape. Hence, when the unlucky sneeze occurs, it cannot be that
the laughter of the audience is due simply to the release from an irksome attitude of mind:
some other cause must be sought.

This cause we shall arrive at by carrying our analysis a step further. We have but to consider
the quantity of feeling that exists under such circumstances, and then to ask what are the
conditions that determine the direction of its discharge, to at once reach a solution. Take
a case. You are sitting in a theatre, absorbed in the progress of an interesting drama. Some
climax has been reached which has aroused your sympathies--say, a reconciliation between the
hero and heroine, after long and painful misunderstanding. The feelings excited by this scene
are not of a kind from which you seek relief; but are, on the contrary, a grateful relief from
the painful feelings with which you have witnessed the previous estrangement. Moreover, the
sentiments these fictitious personages have for the moment inspired you with, are not such
as would lead you to rejoice in any indignity offered to them; but rather, such as would make
you resent the indignity. And now, while you are contemplating the reconciliation with a pleasurable
sympathy, there appears from behind the scenes a tame kid, which, having stared round at the
audience, walks up to the lovers and sniffs at them. You cannot help joining in the roar which
greets this contretemps. Inexplicable as is this irresistible burst on the hypothesis of a
pleasure in escaping from mental restraint; or on the hypothesis of a pleasure from relative
increase of self-importance, when witnessing the humiliation of others; it is readily explicable
if we consider what, in such a case, must become of the feeling that existed at the moment
the incongruity arose. A large mass of emotion had been produced; or, to speak in physiological
language, a large portion of the nervous system was in a state of tension. There was also great
expectation with respect to the further evolution of the scene--a quantity of vague, nascent
thought and emotion, into which the existing quantity of thought and emotion was about to pass.

Had there been no interruption, the body of new ideas and feelings next excited would have
sufficed to absorb the whole of the liberated nervous energy. But now, this large amount of
nervous energy, instead of being allowed to expend itself in producing an equivalent amount
of the new thoughts and emotions which were nascent, is suddenly checked in its flow. The channels
along which the discharge was about to take place are closed. The new channel opened--that
afforded by the appearance and proceedings of the kid--is a small one; the ideas and feelings
suggested are not numerous and massive enough to carry off the nervous energy to be expended.
The excess must therefore discharge itself in some other direction; and in the way already
explained, there results an efflux through the motor nerves to various classes of the muscles,
producing the half-convulsive actions we term laughter.

This explanation is in harmony with the fact, that when, among several persons who witness
the same ludicrous occurrence, there are some who do not laugh; it is because there has arisen
in them an emotion not participated in by the rest, and which is sufficiently massive to absorb
all the nascent excitement. Among the spectators of an awkward tumble, those who preserve their
gravity are those in whom there is excited a degree of sympathy with the sufferer, sufficiently
great to serve as an outlet for the feeling which the occurrence had turned out of its previous
course. Sometimes anger carries off the arrested current; and so prevents laughter. An instance
of this was lately furnished me by a friend who had been witnessing the feats at Franconi's.
A tremendous leap had just been made by an acrobat over a number of horses. The clown, seemingly
envious of this success, made ostentatious preparations for doing the like; and then, taking
the preliminary run with immense energy, stopped short on reaching the first horse, and pretended
to wipe some dust from its haunches. In the majority of the spectators, merriment was excited;
but in my friend, wound up by the expectation of the coming leap to a state of great nervous
tension, the effect of the baulk was to produce indignation. Experience thus proves what the
theory implies: namely, that the discharge of arrested feelings into the muscular system, takes
place only in the absence of other adequate channels--does not take place if there arise other
feelings equal in amount to those arrested.

Evidence still more conclusive is at hand. If we contrast the incongruities which produce laughter
with those which do not, we at once see that in the non-ludicrous ones the unexpected state
of feeling aroused, though wholly different in kind, is not less in quantity or intensity.
Among incongruities that may excite anything but a laugh, Mr. Bain instances--"A decrepit man
under a heavy burden, five loaves and two fishes among a multitude, and all unfitness and gross
disproportion; an instrument out of tune, a fly in ointment, snow in May, Archimedes studying
geometry in a siege, and all discordant things; a wolf in sheep's clothing, a breach of bargain,
and falsehood in general; the multitude taking the law in their own hands, and everything of
the nature of disorder; a corpse at a feast, parental cruelty, filial ingratitude, and whatever
is unnatural; the entire catalogue of the vanities given by Solomon, are all incongruous, but
they cause feelings of pain, anger, sadness, loathing, rather than mirth." Now in these cases,
where the totally unlike state of consciousness suddenly produced is not inferior in mass to
the preceding one, the conditions to laughter are not fulfilled. As above shown, laughter naturally
results only when consciousness is unawares transferred from great things to small--only when
there is what we call a descending incongruity.

And now observe, finally, the fact, alike inferable à priori and illustrated in experience,
that an ascending incongruity not only fails to cause laughter, but works on the muscular system
an effect of exactly the reverse kind. When after something very insignificant there arises
without anticipation something very great, the emotion we call wonder results; and this emotion
is accompanied not by an excitement of the muscles, but by a relaxation of them. In children
and country people, that falling of the jaw which occurs on witnessing something that is imposing
and unexpected exemplifies this effect. Persons who have been wonder-struck at the production
of very striking results by a seemingly inadequate cause, are frequently described as unconsciously
dropping the things they held in their hands. Such are just the effects to be anticipated.
After an average state of consciousness, absorbing but a small quantity of nervous energy,
is aroused without the slightest notice, a strong emotion of awe, terror, or admiration, joined
with the astonishment due to an apparent want of adequate causation. This new state of consciousness
demands far more nervous energy than that which it has suddenly replaced; and this increased
absorption of nervous energy in mental changes involves a temporary diminution of the outflow
in other directions: whence the pendent jaw and the relaxing grasp.

One further observation is worth making. Among the several sets of channels into which surplus
feeling might be discharged, was named the nervous system of the viscera. The sudden overflow
of an arrested mental excitement, which, as we have seen, results from a descending incongruity,
must doubtless stimulate not only the muscular system, as we see it does, but also the internal
organs; the heart and stomach must come in for a share of the discharge. And thus there seems
to be a good physiological basis for the popular notion that mirth-creating excitement facilitates
digestion.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though in doing so I go beyond the boundaries of the immediate topic, I may fitly point out
that the method of inquiry here followed, is one which enables us to understand various phenomena
besides those of laughter. To show the importance of pursuing it, I will indicate the explanation
it furnishes of another familiar class of facts.

All know how generally a large amount of emotion disturbs the action of the intellect, and
interferes with the power of expression. A speech delivered with great facility to tables and
chairs, is by no means so easily delivered to an audience. Every schoolboy can testify that
his trepidation, when standing before a master, has often disabled him from repeating a lesson
which he had duly learnt. In explanation of this we commonly say that the attention is distracted--that
the proper train of ideas is broken by the intrusion of ideas that are irrelevant. But the
question is, in what manner does unusual emotion produce this effect; and we are here supplied
with a tolerably obvious answer. The repetition of a lesson, or set speech previously thought
out, implies the flow of a very moderate amount of nervous excitement through a comparatively
narrow channel. The thing to be done is simply to call up in succession certain previously-arranged
ideas--a process in which no great amount of mental energy is expended. Hence, when there is
a large quantity of emotion, which must be discharged in some direction or other; and when,
as usually happens, the restricted series of intellectual actions to be gone through, does
not suffice to carry it off; there result discharges along other channels besides the one prescribed:
there are aroused various ideas foreign to the train of thought to be pursued; and these tend
to exclude from consciousness those which should occupy it.

And now observe the meaning of those bodily actions spontaneously set up under these circumstances.
The school-boy saying his lesson commonly has his fingers actively engaged--perhaps in twisting
about a broken pen, or perhaps squeezing the angle of his jacket; and if told to keep his hands
still, he soon again falls into the same or a similar trick. Many anecdotes are current of
public speakers having incurable automatic actions of this class: barristers who perpetually
wound and unwound pieces of tape; members of parliament ever putting on and taking off their
spectacles. So long as such movements are unconscious, they facilitate the mental actions.
At least this seems a fair inference from the fact that confusion frequently results from putting
a stop to them: witness the case narrated by Sir Walter Scott of his school-fellow, who became
unable to say his lesson after the removal of the waistcoat-button that he habitually fingered
while in class. But why do they facilitate the mental actions? Clearly because they draw off
a portion of the surplus nervous excitement. If, as above explained, the quantity of mental
energy generated is greater than can find vent along the narrow channel of thought that is
open to it; and if, in consequence, it is apt to produce confusion by rushing into other channels
of thought; then by allowing it an exit through the motor nerves into the muscular system,
the pressure is diminished, and irrelevant ideas are less likely to intrude on consciousness.

This further illustration will, I think, justify the position that something may be achieved
by pursuing in other cases this method of psychological inquiry. A complete explanation of
the phenomena, requires us to trace out all the consequences of any given state of consciousness;
and we cannot do this without studying the effects, bodily and mental, as varying in quantity
at each other's expense. We should probably learn much if we in every case asked--Where is
all the nervous energy gone?

[1] Macmillan's Magazine, March 1860.

[2] For numerous illustrations see essay on "The Origin and Function of Music."

ON THE ORIGIN AND FUNCTION OF MUSIC[1]

When Carlo, standing, chained to his kennel, sees his master in the distance, a slight motion
of the tail indicates his but faint hope that he is about to be let out. A much more decided
wagging of the tail, passing by and by into lateral undulations of the body, follows his master's
nearer approach. When hands are laid on his collar, and he knows that he is really to have
an outing, his jumping and wriggling are such that it is by no means easy to loose his fastenings.
And when he finds himself actually free, his joy expends itself in bounds, in pirouettes, and
in scourings hither and thither at the top of his speed. Puss, too, by erecting her tail, and
by every time raising her back to meet the caressing hand of her mistress, similarly expresses
her gratification by certain muscular actions; as likewise do the parrot by awkward dancing
on his perch, and the canary by hopping and fluttering about his cage with unwonted rapidity.
Under emotions of an opposite kind, animals equally display muscular excitement. The enraged
lion lashes his sides with his tail, knits his brows, protrudes his claws. The cat sets up
her back; the dog retracts his upper lip; the horse throws back his ears. And in the struggles
of creatures in pain, we see that the like relation holds between excitement of the muscles
and excitement of the nerves of sensation.

In ourselves, distinguished from lower creatures as we are by feelings alike more powerful
and more varied, parallel facts are at once more conspicuous and more numerous. We may conveniently
look at them in groups. We shall find that pleasurable sensations and painful sensations, pleasurable
emotions and painful emotions, all tend to produce active demonstrations in proportion to their
intensity.

In children, and even in adults who are not restrained by regard for appearances, a highly
agreeable taste is followed by a smacking of the lips. An infant will laugh and bound in its
nurse's arms at the sight of a brilliant colour or the hearing of a new sound. People are apt
to beat time with head or feet to music which particularly pleases them. In a sensitive person
an agreeable perfume will produce a smile; and smiles will be seen on the faces of a crowd
gazing at some splendid burst of fireworks Even the pleasant sensation of warmth felt on getting
to the fireside out of a winter's storm, will similarly express itself in the face.

Painful sensations, being mostly far more intense than pleasurable ones, cause muscular actions
of a much more decided kind. A sudden twinge produces a convulsive start of the whole body.
A pain less violent, but continuous, is accompanied by a knitting of the brows, a setting of
the teeth or biting of the lip, and a contraction of the features generally. Under a persistent
pain of a severer kind, other muscular actions are added: the body is swayed to and fro; the
hands clench anything they can lay hold of; and should the agony rise still higher, the sufferer
rolls about on the floor almost convulsed.

Though more varied, the natural language of the pleasurable emotions comes within the same
generalisation. A smile, which is the commonest expression of gratified feeling, is a contraction
of certain facial muscles; and when the smile broadens into a laugh, we see a more violent
and more general muscular excitement produced by an intenser gratification. Rubbing together
of the hands, and that other motion which Dickens somewhere describes as "washing with impalpable
soap in invisible water," have like implications. Children may often be seen to "jump for joy."
Even in adults of excitable temperament, an action approaching to it is sometimes witnessed.
And dancing has all the world through been regarded as natural to an elevated state of mind.
Many of the special emotions show themselves in special muscular actions. The gratification
resulting from success, raises the head and gives firmness to the gait. A hearty grasp of the
hand is currently taken as indicative of friendship. Under a gush of affection the mother clasps
her child to her breast, feeling as though she could squeeze it to death. And so in sundry
other cases. Even in that brightening of the eye with which good news is received we may trace
the same truth; for this appearance of greater brilliancy is due to an extra contraction of
the muscle which raises the eyelid, and so allows more light to fall upon, and be reflected
from, the wet surface of the eyeball.

The bodily indications of painful emotions are equally numerous, and still more vehement. Discontent
is shown by raised eyebrows and wrinkled forehead; disgust by a curl of the lip; offence by
a pout. The impatient man beats a tattoo with his fingers on the table, swings his pendent
leg with increasing rapidity, gives needless pokings to the fire, and presently paces with
hasty strides about the room. In great grief there is wringing of the hands, and even tearing
of the hair. An angry child stamps, or rolls on its back and kicks its heels in the air; and
in manhood, anger, first showing itself in frowns, in distended nostrils, in compressed lips,
goes on to produce grinding of the teeth, clenching of the fingers, blows of the fist on the
table, and perhaps ends in a violent attack on the offending person, or in throwing about and
breaking the furniture. From that pursing of the mouth indicative of slight displeasure, up
to the frantic struggles of the maniac, we shall find that mental irritation tends to vent
itself in bodily activity.

All feelings, then--sensations or emotions, pleasurable or painful--have this common characteristic,
that they are muscular stimuli. Not forgetting the few apparently exceptional cases in which
emotions exceeding a certain intensity produce prostration, we may set it down as a general
law that, alike in man and animals, there is a direct connection between feeling and motion;
the last growing more vehement as the first grows more intense. Were it allowable here to treat
the matter scientifically, we might trace this general law down to the principle known among
physiologists as that of reflex action.[2] Without doing this, however, the above numerous
instances justify the generalisation, that mental excitement of all kinds ends in excitement
of the muscles; and that the two preserve a more or less constant ratio to each other.

       *       *       *       *       *

"But what has all this to do with The Origin and Function of Music?" asks the reader. Very
much, as we shall presently see. All music is originally vocal. All vocal sounds are produced
by the agency of certain muscles. These muscles, in common with those of the body at large,
are excited to contraction by pleasurable and painful feelings. And therefore it is that feelings
demonstrate themselves in sounds as well as in movements. Therefore it is that Carlo barks
as well as leaps when he is let out--that puss purrs as well as erects her tail--that the canary
chirps as well as flutters. Therefore it is that the angry lion roars while he lashes his sides,
and the dog growls while he retracts his lip. Therefore it is that the maimed animal not only
struggles, but howls. And it is from this cause that in human beings bodily suffering expresses
itself not only in contortions, but in shrieks and groans--that in anger, and fear, and grief,
the gesticulations are accompanied by shouts and screams--that delightful sensations are followed
by exclamations--and that we hear screams of joy and shouts of exultation.

We have here, then, a principle underlying all vocal phenomena; including those of vocal music,
and by consequence those of music in general. The muscles that move the chest, larynx, and
vocal chords, contracting like other muscles in proportion to the intensity of the feelings;
every different contraction of these muscles involving, as it does, a different adjustment
of the vocal organs; every different adjustment of the vocal organs causing a change in the
sound emitted;--it follows that variations of voice are the physiological results of variations
of feeling; it follows that each inflection or modulation is the natural outcome of some passing
emotion or sensation; and it follows that the explanation of all kinds of vocal expression
must be sought in this general relation between mental and muscular excitements. Let us, then,
see whether we cannot thus account for the chief peculiarities in the utterance of the feelings:
grouping these peculiarities under the heads of loudness, quality, or timbre, pitch, intervals,
and rate of variation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Between the lungs and the organs of voice there is much the same relation as between the bellows
of an organ and its pipes. And as the loudness of the sound given out by an organ-pipe increases
with the strength of the blast from the bellows; so, other things equal, the loudness of a
vocal sound increases with the strength of the blast from the lungs. But the expulsion of air
from the lungs is effected by certain muscles of the chest and abdomen. The force with which
these muscles contract, is proportionate to the intensity of the feeling experienced. Hence,
à priori, loud sounds will be the habitual results of strong feelings. That they are so we
have daily proof. The pain which, if moderate, can be borne silently, causes outcries if it
becomes extreme. While a slight vexation makes a child whimper, a fit of passion calls forth
a howl that disturbs the neighbourhood. When the voices in an adjacent room become unusually
audible, we infer anger, or surprise, or joy. Loudness of applause is significant of great
approbation; and with uproarious mirth we associate the idea of high enjoyment. Commencing
with the silence of apathy, we find that the utterances grow louder as the sensations or emotions,
whether pleasurable or painful, grow stronger.

That different qualities of voice accompany different mental states, and that under states
of excitement the tones are more sonorous than usual, is another general fact admitting of
a parallel explanation. The sounds of common conversation have but little resonance; those
of strong feeling have much more. Under rising ill temper the voice acquires a metallic ring.
In accordance with her constant mood, the ordinary speech of a virago has a piercing quality
quite opposite to that softness indicative of placidity. A ringing laugh marks an especially
joyous temperament. Grief unburdening itself uses tones approaching in timbre to those of chanting:
and in his most pathetic passages an eloquent speaker similarly falls into tones more vibratory
than those common to him. Now any one may readily convince himself that resonant vocal sounds
can be produced only by a certain muscular effort additional to that ordinarily needed. If
after uttering a word in his speaking voice, the reader, without changing the pitch or the
loudness, will sing this word, he will perceive that before he can sing it, he has to alter
the adjustment of the vocal organs; to do which a certain force must be used; and by putting
his fingers on that external prominence marking the top of the larynx, he will have further
evidence that to produce a sonorous tone the organs must be drawn out of their usual position.
Thus, then, the fact that the tones of excited feeling are more vibratory than those of common
conversation is another instance of the connection between mental excitement and muscular excitement.
The speaking voice, the recitative voice, and the singing voice, severally exemplify one general
principle.

That the pitch of the voice varies according to the action of the vocal muscles scarcely needs
saying. All know that the middle notes, in which they converse, are made without any appreciable
effort; and all know that to make either very high or very low notes requires a considerable
effort. In either ascending or descending from the pitch of ordinary speech, we are conscious
of an increasing muscular strain, which, at both extremes of the register, becomes positively
painful. Hence it follows from our general principle, that while indifference or calmness will
use the medium tones, the tones used during excitement will be either above or below them;
and will rise higher and higher, or fall lower and lower, as the feelings grow stronger. This
physiological deduction we also find to be in harmony with familiar facts. The habitual sufferer
utters his complaints in a voice raised considerably above the natural key; and agonising pain
vents itself in either shrieks or groans--in very high or very low notes. Beginning at his
talking pitch, the cry of the disappointed urchin grows more shrill as it grows louder. The
"Oh!" of astonishment or delight, begins several notes below the middle voice, and descends
still lower. Anger expresses itself in high tones, or else in "curses not loud but deep." Deep
tones, too, are always used in uttering strong reproaches. Such an exclamation as "Beware!"
if made dramatically--that is, if made with a show of feeling--must be many notes lower than
ordinary. Further, we have groans of disapprobation, groans of horror, groans of remorse. And
extreme joy and fear are alike accompanied by shrill outcries.

Nearly allied to the subject of pitch, is that of intervals; and the explanation of them carries
our argument a step further. While calm speech is comparatively monotonous, emotion makes use
of fifths, octaves, and even wider intervals. Listen to any one narrating or repeating something
in which he has no interest, and his voice will not wander more than two or three notes above
or below his medium note, and that by small steps; but when he comes to some exciting event
he will be heard not only to use the higher and lower notes of his register, but to go from
one to the other by larger leaps. Being unable in print to imitate these traits of feeling,
we feel some difficulty in fully realising them to the reader. But we may suggest a few remembrances
which will perhaps call to mind a sufficiency of others. If two men living in the same place,
and frequently seeing one another, meet, say at a public assembly, any phrase with which one
may be heard to accost the other--as "Hallo, are you here?"--will have an ordinary intonation.
But if one of them, after long absence, has unexpectedly returned, the expression of surprise
with which his friend may greet him--"Hallo! how came you here?"--will be uttered in much more
strongly contrasted tones. The two syllables of the word "Hallo" will be, the one much higher
and the other much lower than before; and the rest of the sentence will similarly ascend and
descend by longer steps.

Again, if, supposing her to be in an adjoining room, the mistress of the house calls "Mary,"
the two syllables of the name will be spoken in an ascending interval of a third. If Mary does
not reply, the call will be repeated probably in a descending fifth; implying the slightest
shade of annoyance at Mary's inattention. Should Mary still make no answer, the increasing
annoyance will show itself by the use of a descending octave on the next repetition of the
call. And supposing the silence to continue, the lady, if not of a very even temper, will show
her irritation at Mary's seemingly intentional negligence by finally calling her in tones still
more widely contrasted--the first syllable being higher and the last lower than before.

Now, these and analogous facts, which the reader will readily accumulate, clearly conform to
the law laid down. For to make large intervals requires more muscular action than to make small
ones. But not only is the extent of vocal intervals thus explicable as due to the relation
between nervous and muscular excitement, but also in some degree their direction, as ascending
or descending. The middle notes being those which demand no appreciable effort of muscular
adjustment; and the effort becoming greater as we either ascend or descend; it follows that
a departure from the middle notes in either direction will mark increasing emotion; while a
return towards the middle notes will mark decreasing emotion. Hence it happens that an enthusiastic
person uttering such a sentence as--"It was the most splendid sight I ever saw!" will ascend
to the first syllable of the word "splendid," and thence will descend: the word "splendid"
marking the climax of the feeling produced by the recollection. Hence, again, it happens that,
under some extreme vexation produced by another's stupidity, an irascible man, exclaiming--"What
a confounded fool the fellow is!" will begin somewhat below his middle voice, and descending
to the word "fool," which he will utter in one of his deepest notes, will then ascend again.
And it may be remarked, that the word "fool" will not only be deeper and louder than the rest,
but will also have more emphasis of articulation--another mode in which muscular excitement
is shown.

There is some danger, however, in giving instances like this; seeing that as the mode of rendering
will vary according to the intensity of the feeling which the reader feigns to himself, the
right cadence may not be hit upon. With single words there is less difficulty. Thus the "Indeed!"
with which a surprising fact is received, mostly begins on the middle note of the voice, and
rises with the second syllable; or, if disapprobation as well as astonishment is felt, the
first syllable will be below the middle note, and the second lower still. Conversely, the word
"Alas!" which marks not the rise of a paroxysm of grief, but its decline, is uttered in a cadence
descending towards the middle note; or, if the first syllable is in the lower part of the register,
the second ascends towards the middle note. In the "Heigh-ho!" expressive of mental and muscular
prostration, we may see the same truth; and if the cadence appropriate to it be inverted, the
absurdity of the effect clearly shows how the meaning of intervals is dependent on the principle
we have been illustrating.

The remaining characteristic of emotional speech which we have to notice is that of variability
of pitch. It is scarcely possible here to convey adequate ideas of this more complex manifestation.
We must be content with simply indicating some occasions on which it may be observed. On a
meeting of friends, for instance--as when there arrives a party of much-wished-for-visitors--the
voices of all will be heard to undergo changes of pitch not only greater but much more numerous
than usual. If a speaker at a public meeting is interrupted by some squabble among those he
is addressing, his comparatively level tones will be in marked contrast with the rapidly changing
one of the disputants. And among children, whose feelings are less under control than those
of adults, this peculiarity is still more decided. During a scene of complaint and recrimination
between two excitable little girls, the voices may be heard to run up and down the gamut several
times in each sentence. In such cases we once more recognise the same law: for muscular excitement
is shown not only in strength of contraction but also in the rapidity with which different
muscular adjustments succeed each other.

Thus we find all the leading vocal phenomena to have a physiological basis. They are so many
manifestations of the general law that feeling is a stimulus to muscular action--a law conformed
to throughout the whole economy, not of man only, but of every sensitive creature--a law, therefore,
which lies deep in the nature of animal organisation. The expressiveness of these various modifications
of voice is therefore innate. Each of us, from babyhood upwards, has been spontaneously making
them, when under the various sensations and emotions by which they are produced. Having been
conscious of each feeling at the same time that we heard ourselves make the consequent sound,
we have acquired an established association of ideas between such sound and the feeling which
caused it. When the like sound is made by another, we ascribe the like feeling to him; and
by a further consequence we not only ascribe to him that feeling, but have a certain degree
of it aroused in ourselves: for to become conscious of the feeling which another is experiencing,
is to have that feeling awakened in our own consciousness, which is the same thing as experiencing
the feeling. Thus these various modifications of voice become not only a language through which
we understand the emotions of others, but also the means of exciting our sympathy with such
emotions.

Have we not here, then, adequate data for a theory of music? These vocal peculiarities which
indicate excited feeling are those which especially distinguish song from ordinary speech.
Every one of the alterations of voice which we have found to be a physiological result of pain
or pleasure, is carried to its greatest extreme in vocal music. For instance, we saw that,
in virtue of the general relation between mental and muscular excitement, one characteristic
of passionate utterance is loudness. Well, its comparative loudness is one of the distinctive
marks of song as contrasted with the speech of daily life; and further, the forte passages
of an air are those intended to represent the climax of its emotion. We next saw that the tones
in which emotion expresses itself are, in conformity with this same law, of a more sonorous
timbre than those of calm conversation. Here, too, song displays a still higher degree of the
peculiarity; for the singing tone is the most resonant we can make. Again, it was shown that,
from a like cause, mental excitement vents itself in the higher and lower notes of the register;
using the middle notes but seldom. And it scarcely needs saying that vocal music is still more
distinguished by its comparative neglect of the notes in which we talk, and its habitual use
of those above or below them and, moreover, that its most passionate effects are commonly produced
at the two extremities of its scale, but especially the upper one.

A yet further trait of strong feeling, similarly accounted for, was the employment of larger
intervals than are employed in common converse. This trait, also, every ballad and aria carries
to an extent beyond that heard in the spontaneous utterances of emotion: add to which, that
the direction of these intervals, which, as diverging from or converging towards the medium
tones, we found to be physiologically expressive of increasing or decreasing emotion, may be
observed to have in music like meanings. Once more, it was pointed out that not only extreme
but also rapid variations of pitch are characteristic of mental excitement; and once more we
see in the quick changes of every melody, that song carries the characteristic as far, if not
farther. Thus, in respect alike of loudness, timbre, pitch, intervals, and rate of variation,
song employs and exaggerates the natural language of the emotions;--it arises from a systematic
combination of those vocal peculiarities which are the physiological effects of acute pleasure
and pain.

Besides these chief characteristics of song as distinguished from common speech, there are
sundry minor ones similarly explicable as due to the relation between mental and muscular excitement;
and before proceeding further these should be briefly noticed. Thus, certain passions, and
perhaps all passions when pushed to an extreme, produce (probably through their influence over
the action of the heart) an effect the reverse of that which has been described: they cause
a physical prostration, one symptom of which is a general relaxation of the muscles, and a
consequent trembling. We have the trembling of anger, of fear, of hope, of joy; and the vocal
muscles being implicated with the rest, the voice too becomes tremulous. Now, in singing, this
tremulousness of voice is very effectively used by some vocalists in highly pathetic passages;
sometimes, indeed, because of its effectiveness, too much used by them--as by Tamberlik, for
instance.

Again, there is a mode of musical execution known as the staccato, appropriate to energetic
passages--to passages expressive of exhilaration, of resolution, of confidence. The action
of the vocal muscles which produces this staccato style is analogous to the muscular action
which produces the sharp decisive, energetic movements of body indicating these states of mind;
and therefore it is that the staccato style has the meaning we ascribe to it. Conversely, slurred
intervals are expressive of gentler and less active feelings; and are so because they imply
the smaller muscular vivacity due to a lower mental energy. The difference of effect resulting
from difference of time in music is also attributable to the same law. Already it has been
pointed out that the more frequent changes of pitch which ordinarily result from passion are
imitated and developed in song; and here we have to add, that the various rates of such changes,
appropriate to the different styles of music, are further traits having the same derivation.
The slowest movements, largo and adagio, are used where such depressing emotions as grief,
or such unexciting emotions as reverence, are to be portrayed; while the more rapid movements,
andante, allegro, presto, represent successively increasing degrees of mental vivacity; and
do this because they imply that muscular activity which flows from this mental vivacity. Even
the rhythm, which forms a remaining distinction between song and speech, may not improbably
have a kindred cause. Why the actions excited by strong feeling should tend to become rhythmical
is not very obvious; but that they do so there are divers evidences. There is the swaying of
the body to and fro under pain or grief, of the leg under impatience or agitation. Dancing,
too, is a rhythmical action natural to elevated emotion. That under excitement speech acquires
a certain rhythm, we may occasionally perceive in the highest efforts of an orator. In poetry,
which is a form of speech used for the better expression of emotional ideas, we have this rhythmical
tendency developed. And when we bear in mind that dancing, poetry, and music are connate--are
originally constituent parts of the same thing, it becomes clear that the measured movement
common to them all implies a rhythmical action of the whole system, the vocal apparatus included;
and that so the rhythm of music is a more subtle and complex result of this relation between
mental and muscular excitement.

But it is time to end this analysis, which possibly we have already carried too far. It is
not to be supposed that the more special peculiarities of musical expression are to be definitely
explained. Though probably they may all in some way conform to the principle that has been
worked out, it is obviously impracticable to trace that principle in its more ramified applications.
Nor is it needful to our argument that it should be so traced. The foregoing facts sufficiently
prove that what we regard as the distinctive traits of song, are simply the traits of emotional
speech intensified and systematised. In respect of its general characteristics, we think it
has been made clear that vocal music, and by consequence all music, is an idealisation of the
natural language of passion.

       *       *       *       *       *

As far as it goes, the scanty evidence furnished by history confirms this conclusion. Note
first the fact (not properly an historical one, but fitly grouped with such) that the dance-chants
of savage tribes are very monotonous; and in virtue of their monotony are much more nearly
allied to ordinary speech than are the songs of civilised races. Joining with this the fact
that there are still extant among boatmen and others in the East, ancient chants of a like
monotonous character, we may infer that vocal music originally diverged from emotional speech
in a gradual, unobtrusive manner; and this is the inference to which our argument points. Further
evidence to the same effect is supplied by Greek history. The early poems of the Greeks--which,
be it remembered, were sacred legends embodied in that rhythmical, metaphorical language which
strong feeling excites--were not recited, but chanted: the tones and the cadences were made
musical by the same influences which made the speech poetical.

By those who have investigated the matter, this chanting is believed to have been not what
we call singing, but nearly allied to our recitative (far simpler indeed, if we may judge from
the fact that the early Greek lyre, which had but four strings, was played in unison with the
voice, which was therefore confined to four notes), and as such, much less remote from common
speech than our own singing is. For recitative, or musical recitation, is in all respects intermediate
between speech and song. Its average effects are not so loud as those of song. Its tones are
less sonorous in timbre than those of song. Commonly it diverges to a smaller extent from the
middle notes--uses notes neither so high nor so low in pitch. The intervals habitual to it
are neither so wide nor so varied. Its rate of variation is not so rapid. And at the same time
that its primary rhythm is less decided, it has none of that secondary rhythm produced by recurrence
of the same or parallel musical phrases, which is one of the marked characteristics of song.
Thus, then, we may not only infer, from the evidence furnished by existing barbarous tribes,
that the vocal music of pre-historic times was emotional speech very slightly exalted; but
we see that the earliest vocal music of which we have any account differed much less from emotional
speech than does the vocal music of our days.

That recitative--beyond which, by the way, the Chinese and Hindoos seem never to have advanced--grew
naturally out of the modulations and cadences of strong feeling, we have indeed still current
evidence. There are even now to be met with occasions on which strong feeling vents itself
in this form. Whoever has been present when a meeting of Quakers was addressed by one of their
preachers (whose practice it is to speak only under the influence of religious emotion), must
have been struck by the quite unusual tones, like those of a subdued chant, in which the address
was made. It is clear, too, that the intoning used in some churches is representative of this
same mental state; and has been adopted on account of the instinctively felt congruity between
it and the contrition, supplication, or reverence verbally expressed.

And if, as we have good reason to believe, recitative arose by degrees out of emotional speech,
it becomes manifest that by a continuance of the same process song has arisen out of recitative.
Just as, from the orations and legends of savages, expressed in the metaphorical, allegorical
style natural to them, there sprung epic poetry, out of which lyric poetry was afterwards developed;
so, from the exalted tones and cadences in which such orations and legends were delivered,
came the chant or recitative music, from whence lyrical music has since grown up. And there
has not only thus been a simultaneous and parallel genesis, but there is also a parallelism
of results. For lyrical poetry differs from epic poetry, just as lyrical music differs from
recitative: each still further intensifies the natural language of the emotions. Lyrical poetry
is more metaphorical, more hyperbolic, more elliptical, and adds the rhythm of lines to the
rhythm of feet; just as lyrical music is louder, more sonorous, more extreme in its intervals,
and adds the rhythm of phrases to the rhythm of bars. And the known fact that out of epic poetry
the stronger passions developed lyrical poetry as their appropriate vehicle, strengthens the
inference that they similarly developed lyrical music out of recitative.

Nor indeed are we without evidences of the transition. It needs but to listen to an opera to
hear the leading gradations. Between the comparatively level recitative of ordinary dialogue,
the more varied recitative with wider intervals and higher tones used in exciting scenes, the
still more musical recitative which preludes an air, and the air itself, the successive steps
are but small; and the fact that among airs themselves gradations of like nature may be traced,
further confirms the conclusion that the highest form of vocal music was arrived at by degrees.

Moreover, we have some clue to the influences which have induced this development; and may
roughly conceive the process of it. As the tones, intervals, and cadences of strong emotion
were the elements out of which song was elaborated, so we may expect to find that still stronger
emotion produced the elaboration: and we have evidence implying this. Instances in abundance
may be cited, showing that musical composers are men of extremely acute sensibilities. The
Life of Mozart depicts him as one of intensely active affections and highly impressionable
temperament. Various anecdotes represent Beethoven as very susceptible and very passionate.
Mendelssohn is described by those who knew him to have been full of fine feeling. And the almost
incredible sensitiveness of Chopin has been illustrated in the memoirs of George Sand. An unusually
emotional nature being thus the general characteristic of musical composers, we have in it
just the agency required for the development of recitative and song. Intenser feeling producing
intenser manifestations, any cause of excitement will call forth from such a nature tones and
changes of voice more marked than those called forth from an ordinary nature--will generate
just those exaggerations which we have found to distinguish the lower vocal music from emotional
speech, and the higher vocal music from the lower. Thus it becomes credible that the four-toned
recitative of the early Greek poets (like all poets, nearly allied to composers in the comparative
intensity of their feelings), was really nothing more than the slightly exaggerated emotional
speech natural to them, which grew by frequent use into an organised form. And it is readily
conceivable that the accumulated agency of subsequent poet-musicians, inheriting and adding
to the products of those who went before them, sufficed, in the course of the ten centuries
which we know it took, to develop this four-toned recitative into a vocal music having a range
of two octaves.

Not only may we so understand how more sonorous tones, greater extremes of pitch, and wider
intervals, were gradually introduced; but also how there arose a greater variety and complexity
of musical expression. For this same passionate, enthusiastic temperament, which naturally
leads the musical composer to express the feelings possessed by others as well as himself,
in extremer intervals and more marked cadences than they would use, also leads him to give
musical utterance to feelings which they either do not experience, or experience in but slight
degrees. In virtue of this general susceptibility which distinguishes him, he regards with
emotion, events, scenes, conduct, character, which produce upon most men no appreciable effect.
The emotions so generated, compounded as they are of the simpler emotions, are not expressible
by intervals and cadences natural to these, but by combinations of such intervals and cadences:
whence arise more involved musical phrases, conveying more complex, subtle, and unusual feelings.
And thus we may in some measure understand how it happens that music not only so strongly excites
our more familiar feelings, but also produces feelings we never had before--arouses dormant
sentiments of which we had not conceived the possibility and do not know the meaning; or, as
Richter says--tells us of things we have not seen and shall not see.

       *       *       *       *       *

Indirect evidences of several kinds remain to be briefly pointed out. One of them is the difficulty,
not to say impossibility, of otherwise accounting for the expressiveness of music. Whence comes
it that special combinations of notes should have special effects upon our emotions?--that
one should give us a feeling of exhilaration, another of melancholy, another of affection,
another of reverence? Is it that these special combinations have intrinsic meanings apart from
the human constitution?--that a certain number of aerial waves per second, followed by a certain
other number, in the nature of things signify grief, while in the reverse order they signify
joy; and similarly with all other intervals, phrases, and cadences? Few will be so irrational
as to think this. Is it, then, that the meanings of these special combinations are conventional
only?--that we learn their implications, as we do those of words, by observing how others understand
them? This is an hypothesis not only devoid of evidence, but directly opposed to the experience
of every one. How, then, are musical effects to be explained? If the theory above set forth
be accepted, the difficulty disappears. If music, taking for its raw material the various modifications
of voice which are the physiological results of excited feelings, intensifies, combines, and
complicates them--if it exaggerates the loudness, the resonance, the pitch, the intervals,
and the variability, which, in virtue of an organic law, are the characteristics of passionate
speech--if, by carrying out these further, more consistently, more unitedly, and more sustainedly,
it produces an idealised language of emotion; then its power over us becomes comprehensible.
But in the absence of this theory, the expressiveness of music appears to be inexplicable.

Again, the preference we feel for certain qualities of sound presents a like difficulty, admitting
only of a like solution. It is generally agreed that the tones of the human voice are more
pleasing than any others. Grant that music takes its rise from the modulations of the human
voice under emotion, and it becomes a natural consequence that the tones of that voice should
appeal to our feelings more than any others; and so should be considered more beautiful than
any others. But deny that music has this origin, and the only alternative is the untenable
position that the vibrations proceeding from a vocalist's throat are, objectively considered,
of a higher order than those from a horn or a violin. Similarly with harsh and soft sounds.
If the conclusiveness of the foregoing reasonings be not admitted, it must be supposed that
the vibrations causing the last are intrinsically better than those causing the first; and
that, in virtue of some pre-established harmony, the higher feelings and natures produce the
one, and the lower the other. But if the foregoing reasonings be valid, it follows, as a matter
of course, that we shall like the sounds that habitually accompany agreeable feelings, and
dislike those that habitually accompany disagreeable feelings.

Once more, the question--How is the expressiveness of music to be otherwise accounted for?
may be supplemented by the question--How is the genesis of music to be otherwise accounted
for? That music is a product of civilisation is manifest; for though savages have their dance-chants,
these are of a kind scarcely to be dignified by the title musical: at most, they supply but
the vaguest rudiment of music, properly so called. And if music has been by slow steps developed
in the course of civilisation, it must have been developed out of something. If, then, its
origin is not that above alleged, what is its origin?

Thus we find that the negative evidence confirms the positive, and that, taken together, they
furnish strong proof. We have seen that there is a physiological relation, common to man and
all animals, between feeling and muscular action; that as vocal sounds are produced by muscular
action, there is a consequent physiological relation between feeling and vocal sounds; that
all the modifications of voice expressive of feeling are the direct results of this physiological
relation; that music, adopting all these modifications, intensifies them more and more as it
ascends to its higher and higher forms, and becomes music simply in virtue of thus intensifying
them; that, from the ancient epic poet chanting his verses, down to the modern musical composer,
men of unusually strong feelings prone to express them in extreme forms, have been naturally
the agents of these successive intensifications; and that so there has little by little arisen
a wide divergence between this idealised language of emotion and its natural language: to which
direct evidence we have just added the indirect--that on no other tenable hypothesis can either
the expressiveness or the genesis of music be explained.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now, what is the function of music? Has music any effect beyond the immediate pleasure
it produces? Analogy suggests that it has. The enjoyments of a good dinner do not end with
themselves, but minister to bodily well-being. Though people do not marry with a view to maintain
the race, yet the passions which impel them to marry secure its maintenance. Parental affection
is a feeling which, while it conduces to parental happiness, ensures the nurture of offspring.
Men love to accumulate property, often without thought of the benefits it produces; but in
pursuing the pleasure of acquisition they indirectly open the way to other pleasures. The wish
for public approval impels all of us to do many things which we should otherwise not do,--to
undertake great labours, face great dangers, and habitually rule ourselves in a way that smooths
social intercourse: that is, in gratifying our love of approbation we subserve divers ulterior
purposes. And, generally, our nature is such that in fulfilling each desire, we in some way
facilitate the fulfilment of the rest. But the love of music seems to exist for its own sake.
The delights of melody and harmony do not obviously minister to the welfare either of the individual
or of society. May we not suspect, however, that this exception is apparent only? Is it not
a rational inquiry--What are the indirect benefits which accrue from music, in addition to
the direct pleasure it gives?

But that it would take us too far out of our track, we should prelude this inquiry by illustrating
at some length a certain general law of progress;--the law that alike in occupations, sciences,
arts, the divisions that had a common root, but by continual divergence have become distinct,
and are now being separately developed, are not truly independent, but severally act and react
on each other to their mutual advancement. Merely hinting thus much, however, by way of showing
that there are many analogies to justify us, we go on to express the opinion that there exists
a relationship of this kind between music and speech.

All speech is compounded of two elements, the words and the tones in which they are uttered--the
signs of ideas and the signs of feelings. While certain articulations express the thought,
certain vocal sounds express the more or less of pain or pleasure which the thought gives.
Using the word cadence in an unusually extended sense, as comprehending all modifications of
voice, we may say that cadence is the commentary of the emotions upon the propositions of the
intellect. The duality of spoken language, though not formally recognised, is recognised in
practice by every one; and every one knows that very often more weight attaches to the tones
than to the words. Daily experience supplies cases in which the same sentence of disapproval
will be understood as meaning little or meaning much, according to the inflections of voice
which accompany it; and daily experience supplies still more striking cases in which words
and tones are in direct contradiction--the first expressing consent, while the last express
reluctance; and the last being believed rather than the first.

These two distinct but interwoven elements of speech have been undergoing a simultaneous development.
We know that in the course of civilisation words have been multiplied, new parts of speech
have been introduced, sentences have grown more varied and complex; and we may fairly infer
that during the same time new modifications of voice have come into use, fresh intervals have
been adopted, and cadences have become more elaborate. For while, on the one hand, it is absurd
to suppose that, along with the undeveloped verbal forms of barbarism, there existed a developed
system of vocal inflections; it is, on the other hand, necessary to suppose that, along with
the higher and more numerous verbal forms needed to convey the multiplied and complicated ideas
of civilised life, there have grown up those more involved changes of voice which express the
feelings proper to such ideas. If intellectual language is a growth, so also, without doubt,
is emotional language a growth.

Now, the hypothesis which we have hinted above, is, that beyond the direct pleasure which it
gives, music has the indirect effect of developing this language of the emotions. Having its
root, as we have endeavoured to show, in those tones, intervals, and cadences of speech which
express feeling--arising by the combination and intensifying of these, and coming finally to
have an embodiment of its own--music has all along been reacting upon speech, and increasing
its power of rendering emotion. The use in recitative and song of inflections more expressive
than ordinary ones, must from the beginning have tended to develop the ordinary ones. Familiarity
with the more varied combinations of tones that occur in vocal music can scarcely have failed
to give greater variety of combination to the tones in which we utter our impressions and desires.
The complex musical phrases by which composers have conveyed complex emotions, may rationally
be supposed to have influenced us in making those involved cadences of conversation by which
we convey our subtler thoughts and feelings.

That the cultivation of music has no effect on the mind, few will be absurd enough to contend.
And if it has an effect, what more natural effect is there than this of developing our perception
of the meanings of inflections, qualities, and modulations of voice; and giving us a correspondingly
increased power of using them? Just as mathematics, taking its start from the phenomena of
physics and astronomy, and presently coming to be a separate science, has since reacted on
physics and astronomy to their immense advancement--just as chemistry, first arising out of
the processes of metallurgy and the industrial arts, and gradually growing into an independent
study, has now become an aid to all kinds of production--just as physiology, originating out
of medicine and once subordinate to it, but latterly pursued for its own sake, is in our day
coming to be the science on which the progress of medicine depends;--so, music, having its
root in emotional language, and gradually evolved from it, has ever been reacting upon and
further advancing it. Whoever will examine the facts will find this hypothesis to be in harmony
with the method of civilisation everywhere displayed.

It will scarcely be expected that much direct evidence in support of this conclusion can be
given. The facts are of a kind which it is difficult to measure, and of which we have no records.
Some suggestive traits, however, may be noted. May we not say, for instance, that the Italians,
among whom modern music was earliest cultivated, and who have more especially practised and
excelled in melody (the division of music with which our argument is chiefly concerned)--may
we not say that these Italians speak in more varied and expressive inflections and cadences
than any other nation? On the other hand, may we not say that, confined almost exclusively
as they have hitherto been to their national airs, which have a marked family likeness, and
therefore accustomed to but a limited range of musical expression, the Scotch are unusually
monotonous in the intervals and modulations of their speech? And again, do we not find among
different classes of the same nation, differences that have like implications? The gentleman
and the clown stand in a very decided contrast with respect to variety of intonation. Listen
to the conversation of a servant-girl, and then to that of a refined, accomplished lady, and
the more delicate and complex changes of voice used by the latter will be conspicuous. Now,
without going so far as to say that out of all the differences of culture to which the upper
and lower classes are subjected, difference of musical culture is that to which alone this
difference of speech is ascribable, yet we may fairly say that there seems a much more obvious
connection of cause and effect between these than between any others. Thus, while the inductive
evidence to which we can appeal is but scanty and vague, yet what there is favours our position.

       *       *       *       *       *

Probably most will think that the function here assigned to music is one of very little moment.
But further reflection may lead them to a contrary conviction. In its bearings upon human happiness,
we believe that this emotional language which musical culture develops and refines is only
second in importance to the language of the intellect; perhaps not even second to it. For these
modifications of voice produced by feelings are the means of exciting like feelings in others.
Joined with gestures and expressions of face, they give life to the otherwise dead words in
which the intellect utters its ideas; and so enable the hearer not only to understand the state
of mind they accompany, but to partake of that state. In short, they are the chief media of
sympathy. And if we consider how much both our general welfare and our immediate pleasures
depend upon sympathy, we shall recognise the importance of whatever makes this sympathy greater.
If we bear in mind that by their fellow-feeling men are led to behave justly, kindly, and considerately
to each other--that the difference between the cruelty of the barbarous and the humanity of
the civilised, results from the increase of fellow-feeling; if we bear in mind that this faculty
which makes us sharers in the joys and sorrows of others, is the basis of all the higher affections--that
in friendship, love, and all domestic pleasures, it is an essential element; if we bear in
mind how much our direct gratifications are intensified by sympathy,--how, at the theatre,
the concert, the picture gallery, we lose half our enjoyment if we have no one to enjoy with
us; if, in short, we bear in mind that for all happiness beyond what the unfriended recluse
can have, we are indebted to this same sympathy;--we shall see that the agencies which communicate
it can scarcely be overrated in value.

The tendency of civilisation is more and more to repress the antagonistic elements of our characters
and to develop the social ones--to curb our purely selfish desires and exercise our unselfish
ones--to replace private gratifications by gratifications resulting from, or involving, the
happiness of others. And while, by this adaptation to the social state, the sympathetic side
of our nature is being unfolded, there is simultaneously growing up a language of sympathetic
intercourse--a language through which we communicate to others the happiness we feel, and are
made sharers in their happiness.

This double process, of which the effects are already sufficiently appreciable, must go on
to an extent of which we can as yet have no adequate conception. The habitual concealment of
our feelings diminishing, as it must, in proportion as our feelings become such as do not demand
concealment, we may conclude that the exhibition of them will become much more vivid than we
now dare allow it to be; and this implies a more expressive emotional language. At the same
time, feelings of a higher and more complex kind, as yet experienced only by the cultivated
few, will become general; and there will be a corresponding development of the emotional language
into more involved forms. Just as there has silently grown up a language of ideas, which, rude
as it at first was, now enables us to convey with precision the most subtle and complicated
thoughts; so, there is still silently growing up a language of feelings, which, notwithstanding
its present imperfection, we may expect will ultimately enable men vividly and completely to
impress on each other all the emotions which they experience from moment to moment.

Thus if, as we have endeavoured to show, it is the function of music to facilitate the development
of this emotional language, we may regard music as an aid to the achievement of that higher
happiness which it indistinctly shadows forth. Those vague feelings of unexperienced felicity
which music arouses--those indefinite impressions of an unknown ideal life which it calls up,
may be considered as a prophecy, to the fulfilment of which music is itself partly instrumental.
The strange capacity which we have for being so affected by melody and harmony may be taken
to imply both that it is within the possibilities of our nature to realise those intenser delights
they dimly suggest, and that they are in some way concerned in the realisation of them. On
this supposition the power and the meaning of music become comprehensible; but otherwise they
are a mystery.

We will only add, that if the probability of these corollaries be admitted, then music must
take rank as he highest of the fine arts--as the one which, more than any other, ministers
to human welfare. And thus, even leaving out of view the immediate gratifications it is hourly
giving, we cannot too much applaud that progress of musical culture which is becoming one of
the characteristics of our age.

[1] Fraser's Magazine, October 1857.

[2] Those who seek information on this point may find it in an interesting tract by Mr. Alexander
Bain, on Animal Instinct and Intelligence.