The silence of the night was now shattered by the shouts of the men of Tunstall, as they galloped
hither and thither, hunting fugitives; and Dick broke boldly through the underwood and ran
straight before him like a deer.  The silver clearness of the moon upon the open snow increased,
by contrast, the obscurity of the thickets; and the extreme dispersion of the vanquished led
the pursuers into wildly divergent paths.  Hence, in but a little while, Dick and Joanna paused,
in a close covert, and heard the sounds of the pursuit, scattering abroad, indeed, in all directions,
but yet fainting already in the distance.

"An I had but kept a reserve of them together," Dick cried, bitterly, "I could have turned
the tables yet!  Well, we live and learn; next time it shall go better, by the rood."

"Nay, Dick," said Joanna, "what matters it?  Here we are together once again."

He looked at her, and there she was--John Matcham, as of yore, in hose and doublet.  But now
he knew her; now, even in that ungainly dress, she smiled upon him, bright with love; and his
heart was transported with joy.

"Sweetheart," he said, "if ye forgive this blunderer, what care I?  Make we direct for Holywood;
there lieth your good guardian and my better friend, Lord Foxham.  There shall we be wed; and
whether poor or wealthy, famous or unknown, what, matters it?  This day, dear love, I won my
spurs; I was commended by great men for my valour; I thought myself the goodliest man of war
in all broad England.  Then, first, I fell out of my favour with the great; and now have I
been well thrashed, and clean lost my soldiers.  There was a downfall for conceit!  But, dear,
I care not--dear, if ye still love me and will wed, I would have my knighthood done away, and
mind it not a jot."

"My Dick!" she cried.  "And did they knight you?"

"Ay, dear, ye are my lady now," he answered, fondly; "or ye shall, ere noon to-morrow--will
ye not?"

"That will I, Dick, with a glad heart," she answered.

"Ay, sir?  Methought ye were to be a monk!" said a voice in their ears.

"Alicia!" cried Joanna.

"Even so," replied the young lady, coming forward.  "Alicia, whom ye left for dead, and whom
your lion-driver found, and brought to life again, and, by my sooth, made love to, if ye want
to know!"

"I'll not believe it," cried Joanna.  "Dick!"

"Dick!" mimicked Alicia.  "Dick, indeed!  Ay, fair sir, and ye desert poor damsels in distress,"
she continued, turning to the young knight. "Ye leave them planted behind oaks.  But they say
true--the age of chivalry is dead."

"Madam," cried Dick, in despair, "upon my soul I had forgotten you outright.  Madam, ye must
try to pardon me.  Ye see, I had new found Joanna!"

"I did not suppose that ye had done it o' purpose," she retorted.  "But I will be cruelly avenged.
I will tell a secret to my Lady Shelton--she that is to be," she added, curtseying.  "Joanna,"
she continued, "I believe, upon my soul, your sweetheart is a bold fellow in a fight, but he
is, let me tell you plainly, the softest-hearted simpleton in England. Go to--ye may do your
pleasure with him!  And now, fool children, first kiss me, either one of you, for luck and
kindness; and then kiss each other just one minute by the glass, and not one second longer;
and then let us all three set forth for Holywood as fast as we can stir; for these woods, methinks,
are full of peril and exceeding cold."

"But did my Dick make love to you?" asked Joanna, clinging to her sweetheart's side.

"Nay, fool girl," returned Alicia; "it was I made love to him.  I offered to marry him, indeed;
but he bade me go marry with my likes.  These were his words.  Nay, that I will say: he is
more plain than pleasant.  But now, children, for the sake of sense, set forward.  Shall we
go once more over the dingle, or push straight for Holywood?"

"Why," said Dick, "I would like dearly to get upon a horse; for I have been sore mauled and
beaten, one way and another, these last days, and my poor body is one bruise.  But how think
ye?  If the men, upon the alarm of the fighting, had fled away, we should have gone about for
nothing. 'Tis but some three short miles to Holywood direct; the bell hath not beat nine; the
snow is pretty firm to walk upon, the moon clear; how if we went even as we are?"

"Agreed," cried Alicia; but Joanna only pressed upon Dick's arm.

Forth, then, they went, through open leafless groves and down snow-clad alleys, under the white
face of the winter moon; Dick and Joanna walking hand in hand and in a heaven of pleasure;
and their light-minded companion, her own bereavements heartily forgotten, followed a pace
or two behind, now rallying them upon their silence, and now drawing happy pictures of their
future and united lives.

Still, indeed, in the distance of the wood, the riders of Tunstall might be heard urging their
pursuit; and from time to time cries or the clash of steel announced the shock of enemies.
But in these young folk, bred among the alarms of war, and fresh from such a multiplicity of
dangers, neither fear nor pity could be lightly wakened.  Content to find the sounds still
drawing farther and farther away, they gave up their hearts to the enjoyment of the hour, walking
already, as Alicia put it, in a wedding procession; and neither the rude solitude of the forest,
nor the cold of the freezing night, had any force to shadow or distract their happiness.

At length, from a rising hill, they looked below them on the dell of Holywood.  The great windows
of the forest abbey shone with torch and candle; its high pinnacles and spires arose very clear
and silent, and the gold rood upon the topmost summit glittered brightly in the moon. All about
it, in the open glade, camp-fires were burning, and the ground was thick with huts; and across
the midst of the picture the frozen river curved.

"By the mass," said Richard, "there are Lord Foxham's fellows still encamped.  The messenger
hath certainly miscarried.  Well, then, so better.  We have power at hand to face Sir Daniel."

But if Lord Foxham's men still lay encamped in the long holm at Holywood, it was from a different
reason from the one supposed by Dick.  They had marched, indeed, for Shoreby; but ere they
were half way thither, a second messenger met them, and bade them return to their morning's
camp, to bar the road against Lancastrian fugitives, and to be so much nearer to the main army
of York.  For Richard of Gloucester, having finished the battle and stamped out his foes in
that district, was already on the march to rejoin his brother; and not long after the return
of my Lord Foxham's retainers, Crookback himself drew rein before the abbey door. It was in
honour of this august visitor that the windows shone with lights; and at the hour of Dick's
arrival with his sweetheart and her friend, the whole ducal party was being entertained in
the refectory with the splendour of that powerful and luxurious monastery.

Dick, not quite with his good will, was brought before them.  Gloucester, sick with fatigue,
sat leaning upon one hand his white and terrifying countenance; Lord Foxham, half recovered
from his wound, was in a place of honour on his left.

"How, sir?" asked Richard.  "Have ye brought me Sir Daniel's head?"

"My lord duke," replied Dick, stoutly enough, but with a qualm at heart, "I have not even the
good fortune to return with my command.  I have been, so please your grace, well beaten."

Gloucester looked upon him with a formidable frown.

"I gave you fifty lances, {3} sir," he said.

"My lord duke, I had but fifty men-at-arms," replied the young knight.

"How is this?" said Gloucester.  "He did ask me fifty lances."

"May it please your grace," replied Catesby, smoothly, "for a pursuit we gave him but the horsemen."

"It is well," replied Richard, adding, "Shelton, ye may go."

"Stay!" said Lord Foxham.  "This young man likewise had a charge from me. It may be he hath
better sped.  Say, Master Shelton, have ye found the maid?"

"I praise the saints, my lord," said Dick, "she is in this house."

"Is it even so?  Well, then, my lord the duke," resumed Lord Foxham, "with your good will,
to-morrow, before the army march, I do propose a marriage.  This young squire--"

"Young knight," interrupted Catesby.

"Say ye so, Sir William?" cried Lord Foxham.

"I did myself, and for good service, dub him knight," said Gloucester. "He hath twice manfully
served me.  It is not valour of hands, it is a man's mind of iron, that he lacks.  He will
not rise, Lord Foxham.  'Tis a fellow that will fight indeed bravely in a mellay, but hath
a capon's heart.  Howbeit, if he is to marry, marry him in the name of Mary, and be done!"

"Nay, he is a brave lad--I know it," said Lord Foxham.  "Content ye, then, Sir Richard.  I
have compounded this affair with Master Hamley, and to-morrow ye shall wed."

Whereupon Dick judged it prudent to withdraw; but he was not yet clear of the refectory, when
a man, but newly alighted at the gate, came running four stairs at a bound, and, brushing through
the abbey servants, threw himself on one knee before the duke.

"Victory, my lord," he cried.

And before Dick had got to the chamber set apart for him as Lord Foxham's guest, the troops
in the holm were cheering around their fires; for upon that same day, not twenty miles away,
a second crushing blow had been dealt to the power of Lancaster.

CHAPTER VII--DICK'S REVENGE

The next morning Dick was afoot before the sun, and having dressed himself to the best advantage
with the aid of the Lord Foxham's baggage, and got good reports of Joan, he set forth on foot
to walk away his impatience.

For some while he made rounds among the soldiery, who were getting to arms in the wintry twilight
of the dawn and by the red glow of torches; but gradually he strolled further afield, and at
length passed clean beyond the outposts, and walked alone in the frozen forest, waiting for
the sun.

His thoughts were both quiet and happy.  His brief favour with the Duke he could not find it
in his heart to mourn; with Joan to wife, and my Lord Foxham for a faithful patron, he looked
most happily upon the future; and in the past he found but little to regret.

As he thus strolled and pondered, the solemn light of the morning grew more clear, the east
was already coloured by the sun, and a little scathing wind blew up the frozen snow.  He turned
to go home; but even as he turned, his eye lit upon a figure behind, a tree.

"Stand!" he cried.  "Who goes?"

The figure stepped forth and waved its hand like a dumb person.  It was arrayed like a pilgrim,
the hood lowered over the face, but Dick, in an instant, recognised Sir Daniel.

He strode up to him, drawing his sword; and the knight, putting his hand in his bosom, as if
to seize a hidden weapon, steadfastly awaited his approach.

"Well, Dickon," said Sir Daniel, "how is it to be?  Do ye make war upon the fallen?"

"I made no war upon your life," replied the lad; "I was your true friend until ye sought for
mine; but ye have sought for it greedily."

"Nay--self-defence," replied the knight.  "And now, boy, the news of this battle, and the presence
of yon crooked devil here in mine own wood, have broken me beyond all help.  I go to Holywood
for sanctuary; thence overseas, with what I can carry, and to begin life again in Burgundy
or France."

"Ye may not go to Holywood," said Dick.

"How!  May not?" asked the knight.

"Look ye, Sir Daniel, this is my marriage morn," said Dick; "and yon sun that is to rise will
make the brightest day that ever shone for me.  Your life is forfeit--doubly forfeit, for my
father's death and your own practices to meward.  But I myself have done amiss; I have brought
about men's deaths; and upon this glad day I will be neither judge nor hangman. An ye were
the devil, I would not lay a hand on you.  An ye were the devil, ye might go where ye will
for me.  Seek God's forgiveness; mine ye have freely.  But to go on to Holywood is different.
I carry arms for York, and I will suffer no spy within their lines.  Hold it, then, for certain,
if ye set one foot before another, I will uplift my voice and call the nearest post to seize you."

"Ye mock me," said Sir Daniel.  "I have no safety out of Holywood."

"I care no more," returned Richard.  "I let you go east, west, or south; north I will not.
Holywood is shut against you.  Go, and seek not to return.  For, once ye are gone, I will warn
every post about this army, and there will be so shrewd a watch upon all pilgrims that, once
again, were ye the very devil, ye would find it ruin to make the essay."

"Ye doom me," said Sir Daniel, gloomily.

"I doom you not," returned Richard.  "If it so please you to set your valour against mine,
come on; and though I fear it be disloyal to my party, I will take the challenge openly and
fully, fight you with mine own single strength, and call for none to help me.  So shall I avenge
my father, with a perfect conscience."

"Ay," said Sir Daniel, "y' have a long sword against my dagger."

"I rely upon Heaven only," answered Dick, casting his sword some way behind him on the snow.
"Now, if your ill-fate bids you, come; and, under the pleasure of the Almighty, I make myself
bold to feed your bones to foxes."

"I did but try you, Dickon," returned the knight, with an uneasy semblance of a laugh.  "I
would not spill your blood."

"Go, then, ere it be too late," replied Shelton.  "In five minutes I will call the post.  I
do perceive that I am too long-suffering.  Had but our places been reversed, I should have
been bound hand and foot some minutes past."

"Well, Dickon, I will go," replied Sir Daniel.  "When we next meet, it shall repent you that
ye were so harsh."

And with these words, the knight turned and began to move off under the trees.  Dick watched
him with strangely-mingled feelings, as he went, swiftly and warily, and ever and again turning
a wicked eye upon the lad who had spared him, and whom he still suspected.

There was upon one side of where he went a thicket, strongly matted with green ivy, and, even
in its winter state, impervious to the eye.  Herein, all of a sudden, a bow sounded like a
note of music.  An arrow flew, and with a great, choked cry of agony and anger, the Knight
of Tunstall threw up his hands and fell forward in the snow.

Dick bounded to his side and raised him.  His face desperately worked; his whole body was shaken
by contorting spasms.

"Is the arrow black?" he gasped.

"It is black," replied Dick, gravely.

And then, before he could add one word, a desperate seizure of pain shook the wounded man from
head to foot, so that his body leaped in Dick's supporting arms, and with the extremity of
that pang his spirit fled in silence.

The young man laid him back gently on the snow and prayed for that unprepared and guilty spirit,
and as he prayed the sun came up at a bound, and the robins began chirping in the ivy.

When he rose to his feet, he found another man upon his knees but a few steps behind him, and,
still with uncovered head, he waited until that prayer also should be over.  It took long;
the man, with his head bowed and his face covered with his hands, prayed like one in a great
disorder or distress of mind; and by the bow that lay beside him, Dick judged that he was no
other than the archer who had laid Sir Daniel low.

At length he, also, rose, and showed the countenance of Ellis Duckworth.

