In a somewhat sceptical age it is worth while noticing that from the earliest dawn of history,
under varying forms of government and civilisation with which we are acquainted, the belief
in premonitions was unchallenged. The old Greeks and Latins were the keenest thinkers the world
so far has seen; yet they believed in ghosts, omens, and premonitions. (They would smile in
lofty scorn at some of the superstitions to-day taught under the Elementary Education Act of
1870.) Unbelief in such things super-natural, therefore, cannot be accepted as a sign of lofty
mentality. A journalistic friend was staying with me some few months ago. We were sitting smoking
rather late after dinner. "Do you believe in ghosts?" I asked. "Don't be so absurdly foolish!"
he cried angrily. "That's all right," I remarked quietly. "Now I know you won't mind sleeping
in our haunted room; many foolish people do object." "Great Scott!" he ejaculated, "no haunted
room for me!" Nor would he even look at it. He would not face the logical sequence of his dogmatic
unbelief. Only a brave man dare express all he believes.

Now it is well known that every advance in scientific knowledge is greeted with mocking laughter.
We know the jeers with which even clever men greeted the Marconi claims. It is not so many
years ago that a distinguished member of the French Academy of Science rose up amongst his
colleagues and pronounced the Edison phonograph to be nothing more than an acoustical illusion.
So we are told that soldiers' visions are optical illusions. That is no answer. Call them optical
delusions if you like, then the query arises what causes these optical delusions, of which
we have countless instances, which inform a man of the hour, and sometimes the manner, of his
death? To call an effect by another name does not dispose of the cause of such effect, nor
is it any solution of the mystery.

Few thinkers now, worthy of the name, seriously dispute the existence of super-natural forces
and influences. The whole system of Christianity, of belief in all ages, is founded upon such
things. To-day front-rank men are investigating in avenues of research where once they sneered.
There is much fraud and cheap talk in ordinary life, but not under fire. Men are not cheap
then, nor are they paltry. Strange that where death is busiest the evidence of life beyond
and above it all should abound. The invisible, full of awe, is also full of teaching, it is
pregnant with whispers. The mind, tuned up to a new tension, receives all kinds of Marconi-like
messages. What sends such whispers? Is it that in the moment of supreme self-sacrifice and
splendid devotion to duty that spiritual perceptions are sharpened? Who shall say? "He was
hit, and he rushed forward shouting, 'Why, there's my----' then he dropped dead, but he saw
someone, of that I am sure." So spoke a man of the A.S.C., who saw his comrade die. Deep calls
to deep, and if we put our ear to the call we may hear the message. On the battlefield, as
in no other place, there is the call of soul to soul, of heart to heart, intensified by all
our powers of emotion, which duty calls forth at their best. Tommy Atkins stares more fixedly
into the dim future, the greater the gloom the more he searches for the gleam, and sometimes
it is vouchsafed to him. There is no doubt that mind calls to mind. After all, time and space
are artificial things. They cannot be spiritual barriers. Why should a mother, thinking of
her lad at the front in a supreme moment of affection and deep yearning, not be able to do
what frequently happens unconsciously among ordinary acquaintances? Often a thought will pass
from one mind to another in a moment of silence.

