Being returned home, Lagerfeldt came again to him to sift him, and to know what answer the
Queen had given to his objections upon the new articles. But Whitelocke fitted his inquiry,
and thought not convenient to communicate to him more than what might advantage his business
to be reported to Grave Eric; and because, in all conferences with the Queen, no person was
admitted to be present with them, not her own Commissioners for the treaty, or any of the Senators,
for the secresy of the business, which was much to the liking of Whitelocke, and furtherance
of the treaty. They had much discourse upon the new articles, to the same effect as formerly;
and Lagerfeldt said he doubted not but the Queen would in a short time conclude it to Whitelocke's
satisfaction.

After this discourse Whitelocke inquired of Lagerfeldt how the Chancellor's health was, and
what physicians were about him. Lagerfeldt said he was still sick of his ague, and had no physician
attending him but one who had been a chirurgeon in the army, and now constantly lived in the
house with the Chancellor as a humble friend, sat at his table, and had a pension from him
of four hundred rix-dollars a year; who had some good receipts, especially for the stone, which
agreed with the Chancellor's constitution, which this chirurgeon only studied and attended.
And so it was generally in this great and large country. Whitelocke met with no doctor of physic
or professed physician in any town or country, not any attending the person of the Queen herself;
but there are many good women, and some private persons, who use to help people that are diseased
by some ordinary known medicines; and their diseases are but few, their remedies generally
communicated, and they live many of them to a great age.

[SN: Letters and despatches from England.]

Whitelocke received letters from England, which were always welcome, especially bringing the
good news of the welfare of his relations. He received very respectful letters from the Earl
of Clare, Sir Charles Woolsey, Colonel Sydenham, the Master of the Rolls, Mr. Reynolds, Lord
Commissioner Lisle, and divers others, besides his usual letters from his wife, Mr. Hall, Mr.
Cokaine, his brothers-in-law, and divers other friends. In those from Thurloe he had the particular
passages of the Dutch treaty, and that he believed the peace with them would be concluded;
and in those letters Thurloe also writes thus:--

    "Your Excellence's of the 27th of January I communicated to his
    Highness and to the Council, who, although they do not by this
    transaction of the Queen very well understand her intentions as to
    the peace, yet they are very much satisfied with the management
    thereof on your part, and commit the issue thereof unto the Lord,
    who will either bless your endeavours by bringing things to a
    desired issue, or otherwise dispose of this affair to the glory of
    God, the good of the Commonwealth, and the comfort of yourself who
    are employed in it.

    "The Council, upon consideration of the whole matter, did not find
    it necessary to give you any further directions, nor did his
    Highness, especially seeing his last letters but one did express his
    sense upon that treaty, and nothing hath occurred since which hath
    given any cause of alteration.

    "The French King and Cardinal, seeing themselves disappointed at the
    Hague as to their inclusion in that treaty, endeavour to effect it
    here; and to that purpose the Cardinal sent hither one Monsieur Le
    Baas to congratulate his Highness, and to assure him of the
    friendship of the King; and that, if he pleased, the King would
    banish Charles Stuart and his family out of his dominions, and
    proclaim the Protector in France; and hath since sent a Commissioner
    to Monsieur Bordeaux to be Ambassador.

    "The Spanish Ambassador doth also very much court his Highness and
    the present Government. Don Francisco Romero, Captain of the Guard
    to the Archduke, arrived here the last night, to congratulate his
    Highness in the Duke's name.

    "I have moved the Council in the two papers your Excellence trusted
    to my care. What order the Council hath been pleased to make
    thereupon you will see by their enclosed order, and my care shall
    not be wanting to see an effectual execution thereof.

                  "Your Excellence's humble and faithful servant,
                                                      "JO. THURLOE.
"24th February, 1653."

The Council's Order was this:--

    "AT THE COUNCIL CHAMBER, WHITEHALL.

    "Friday, 24th of February, 1653.

    [SN: Order in Council on the Swedish prizes.]

    "On consideration of several papers which came enclosed in a letter
    from the Lord Ambassador Whitelocke, and were this day presented to
    the Council, containing some complaints made by divers of the
    subjects of her Majesty of Sweden, viz. concerning a Swedish galliot
    called the 'Land of Promise,' and a ship called the 'Castle of
    Stockholm,' and certain goods taken out of the 'Gold Star' of
    Hamburg, and claimed as belonging to Alexander Ceccony, gentleman,
    principal officer of the Queen's wardrobe: Ordered, That several
    copies of the said papers be forthwith sent to the Judges of the
    Court of Admiralty and to the Commissioners for Prize Goods, to whom
    it is respectively referred, diligently to inform themselves of the
    true state of the said ship and goods, and what proceedings have
    been had in the Court of Admiralty or Prize Office touching the same
    or any of them, and thereof to make report to the Council. And it is
    especially recommended and given in charge to the said Judges that
    both in these and in all matters concerning the said Queen or her
    subjects, which do or shall depend before them, all right and fair
    respect be given upon all occasions; and that whatsoever of the said
    goods belonging to her Majesty's servant they shall discover, be by
    them ordered to be forthwith delivered.

                                    "Ex^r W. JESSOP,
                                          "Clerk of the Council."

This Order Whitelocke caused to be translated into Latin, and sent copies of it to the Chancellor,
to Grave Eric, to Mr. Ceccony, and to others; and he showed it to the Queen, and all were pleased
with it, hoping for further fruit of it, and esteeming Whitelocke to be in good credit with
his superiors.

March 24, 1653.

[SN: Reports of the negotiation to England.]

Whitelocke made his despatches for England, and wrote above twenty letters to several of his
friends there, finding it grateful to them to receive letters from him at such a distance;
and that answers to letters are expected, and ill taken if neglected; that they cost little,
and please much. He was hindered by Woolfeldt, who made a long visit to him, though upon the
post day; at which he wondered, in regard Woolfeldt had been himself often employed as a public
minister, and knew so well what belonged to the making of despatches.

To recover his lost time, Whitelocke (as he often used when business pressed him) wrote one
letter himself and dictated two others to his secretaries at the same time, and so, in effect,
wrote three letters at once. The letter which he now wrote to Secretary Thurloe contained his
whole transactions since his last letters to him; and the conclusion of the letter, showing
the state of his negotiation, was this:--

    "This afternoon Grave Eric came to me from the Queen, who desired
    that my audience, appointed this day, might be put off till the
    holidays were past, and said that by reason of the sacrament upon
    Easter Day, this day and tomorrow were to be spent in preparation
    thereunto; but he told me that she commanded him to receive my
    objections to his articles in writing, the which I gave him
    according to that large paper which you will receive herewith. We
    had very much debate upon the particulars, much of it according to
    what I have mentioned before.

    "I have thought fit to send you this large paper that you might see
    the whole business before you at one view, and it hath cost me some
    pains. I shall continue my best endeavours to bring your business to
    a good effect. I am put to struggle with more difficulties than I
    could expect, and their policy here is great. One may soon be
    overtaken with long, intricate, and new proposals; but I hope God
    will direct me, whom I do seek, and shall not wilfully transgress my
    instructions.

    "When I speak with the Queen, she seems to be satisfied; and then
    some of the grandees seek to persuade her to a contrary opinion, and
    to keep me from her, and lay objections in the way to cross it (for
    we want no enemies here). I then endeavour again to satisfy the
    Queen, and break through their designs as well as I can; to do
    which, and to get a good despatch against all opposition, and yet so
    as not to supplicate anything from them, nor in the least to
    prostitute the honour of my Lord Protector and of the Commonwealth,
    or to prejudice them, is a task hard enough for a great favourite,
    much more hard for a stranger, and whose differing principles may
    render him the less acceptable. However, I shall hope that the Lord
    will direct me for the best, whether they agree with my judgement or
    not.

    "If I can conclude with them, I shall presently be upon my return,
    and hope within a week or two to receive his Highness's order to
    give me leave to come home. What I cannot consent to or obtain at
    present, I presume they will be contented to have referred to a
    future agreement, wherein there can be no prejudice (in my humble
    opinion) to your affairs.

    "I ask your pardon for my tedious informations, wherein I take no
    pleasure; but supposing the business to require it, I presume you
    will excuse

                  "Your very affectionate friend to serve you,
                                                  "B. WHITELOCKE.
    "Upsal, 24th March, 1653."

Most of the night was spent by Whitelocke in making his despatches for England; neither did
he neglect any one friend from whom he had received the favour and kindness of their letters
to him here; by which civility he obtained the more advice and intelligence from England, and
made good use of it in this Court. His constant letters from his wife and other private friends
he also found of much comfort and advantage to him.

March 25, 1654.

[SN: New Year's Day, Old Style.]

This day, by the Swedish computation as well as that of England, is the first day of the year 1654.

Mr. Bloome came to Whitelocke with a compliment from the Chancellor, that he was sorry he could
not visit Whitelocke before his going out of town, because he was ill, and retired himself
into the country, to be quit from business and to recover his health; and at his return he
would come to Whitelocke and confer with him.

This gentleman Whitelocke apprehended to be often sent to him as a spy, to inquire of his intentions,
and therefore he thought good to make use of him by telling such things to him as Whitelocke
thought and wished might be again reported by Bloome unto the Chancellor. Therefore, among
other discourses, Whitelocke told Bloome that France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Holland, Switzerland,
Denmark, and other princes and states, had sent their public ministers to the Protector, desiring
friendship with him; but his Highness having sent his Ambassador into this kingdom, they had
testified so little respect to him, that in three or four months' time they had not vouchsafed
to give him an answer to his proposals.

Mr. Symonds, an Englishman, excellent in his art of graving and taking off pictures in little,
in wax, for which he had regard in this Court and promises of money, this person often frequented
Whitelocke, his countryman, and his house, and after some time made a request to Whitelocke
to speak to the Queen in his favour. Whitelocke, knowing that ambassadors' offices ought not
to be cheap, told Symonds in a kind of drollery that surely he could not expect such a courtesy
from him, since, being an Englishman, he had not acquainted the English Ambassador with any
matter of consequence, nor done any service to his country, since Whitelocke's arrival here;
that when he should deserve it, Whitelocke would be ready to do him service.

March 26, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke reproves the English for disorder on the Lord's Day.]

The Lord's Day.--Divers English and Scots came to the public duties of the day in Whitelocke's
house; and amongst other discourse Whitelocke learnt from them that Waters, one of his trumpets,
going late in the evening to his lodging, was set upon by some drunkards with their swords,
and wounded, whereof he continued very ill. Whitelocke examined and reproved some of his company
for disorders committed by them on the Lord's Day and other days, which he told them he would
not bear; and it was the worse in their commitment of those crimes, and the less reason for
them to expect a connivance thereat, because Whitelocke had so often and so publicly inveighed
against the profanation of that day in this place; but among a hundred some will be always
found base, vicious, and wicked.

March 27, 1654.

[SN: Festivities of Easter Monday.]

This being Easter Monday, some of Whitelocke's people went to the castle to hear the Queen's
music in her chapel, which they reported to Whitelocke to be very curious; and that in the
afternoon was appointed an ancient solemnity of running at the ring. Some Italians of the Queen's
music dined with Whitelocke, and afterwards sang to him and presented him with a book of their
songs, which, according to expectation, was not unrewarded.

Whitelocke went not abroad this festival-time to visit anybody, nor did any grandees come to
visit him; he had an imagination that they might be forbidden to do it, the rather because
Piementelle and Woolfeldt, who were accustomed to come often to him, had of late refrained
to do it, and had not answered Whitelocke's last visit in ten days. The Queen had also excused
her not admitting Whitelocke to have audiences, by saying she was busy or sick, when, at the
same time, Piementelle and others were admitted to her presence, and for two or three hours
together discoursed with her. This was resented and spoken of by Whitelocke so as it might
come to the Queen's ear.

March 28, 1654.

[SN: The Swedes desire to defer the treaty until the new reign.]

After the master of the ceremonies had dined with Whitelocke, and was in a good humour, he
desired Whitelocke to withdraw from the rest of the strangers, and that he might speak privately
with him; and going into the bedchamber, the master told him that he had heard from some that
Whitelocke had expressed a discontent, and the master desired to know if any had given him
offence, or if there were anything wherein the master might do him service. Whitelocke said
he apprehended some occasion of discontent in that he had attended here near four months, and
had not yet obtained any answer to his proposals. The master excused the delay in regard of
the Queen's purpose of quitting the Government. Whitelocke said he believed that occasioned
much trouble to her Majesty, and which gave him cause to doubt that his frequent visits of
her Majesty might give her some inconvenience. He replied that Whitelocke's company was very
agreeable to the Queen, though at present she was overcharged with business.

Whitelocke. I do acknowledge the favours I have received from her Majesty, and your civilities
to me, for which I shall not be ungrateful.

Mast. Cer. Would it not be of advantage to your business to attend for the conclusion of it
until the coronation of our new King, to be assented to by him; by which means the alliance
will be more firm than to have it done by the Queen so near her quitting of the Government?

Wh. I shall hardly stay so long a time as till the beginning of the reign of your new King,
nor have I any letters of credence or commission but to the Queen; and I believe that all acts
done by her before her resignation will be held good, and particularly this touching the friendship
with England, which, I suppose, will be also very agreeable to his Kingly Highness, and be
inviolably observed by him.

Mast. Cer. I do not doubt but that the new King will observe the alliance which the Queen shall
make with England, but perhaps it might better be made with the new King himself; and although
you have no letters of credence to him, yet you may write into England and have them sent to you.

Wh. That will require more time than I have to stay in this place. I believe the new King will
not be crowned yet these two or three months; and it will be two months from this time before
I can receive new credentials from England, and two or three months after that before I can
return home; by which account I shall be abroad yet eight months longer, which will be till
the next winter; and that would be too long a time for me to be absent from my family and affairs
in England.

Mast. Cer. I shall speak with the Queen in this business, and shortly return to you.

It was imagined by Whitelocke that the master of the ceremonies was purposely sent to him to
sound him touching the deferring of the treaty; and the like errand Mr. Bloome came to him
about; and Whitelocke fully declared to them his distaste of any thought thereof, and the more
at large and positively because he knew what he said would be reported to the full to her Majesty
and to the Chancellor.

March 29, 1654.

The master of the ceremonies came to Whitelocke from the Queen to excuse Whitelocke's not having
had audiences when he desired them; which he said was because her Majesty had been so full
of business, which had hindered her, and particularly because of the holidays; but he said,
if Whitelocke pleased to have his audience tomorrow, the Queen would be glad to see him. Whitelocke
desired the master to return his thanks to her Majesty for her favours, and to let her know
that he should be ready to attend her at such time as she should appoint. The master said he
would acquaint her Majesty herewith, and so went away in the midst of dinner.

[SN: Lord Douglas visits Whitelocke.]

The Lord Douglas, a Scotsman, came to visit Whitelocke. He is an ancient servant to this Crown;
he was a page to King Gustavus Adolphus, and by him preferred to military command, wherein
he quitted himself so well that he was promoted to be General of the Horse, and was now a Baron
and Ricks-Stallmaster, or master of the horse, in Sweden. He excused himself that he had not
oftener visited Whitelocke, being hindered by his sickness of an ague, which had held him thirty
weeks, and had not yet left him. He said that the next day after his arrival here the Queen
asked him if he had been to see the English Ambassador, and that Whitelocke was much obliged
to the Queen for her good opinion of him: whereof Whitelocke said he had received many testimonies,
and of her respects to the Protector and Commonwealth as well as to their servant. Douglas
said, that besides her respect to the Protector, she had a particular respect for Whitelocke;
with much discourse of that nature.

[SN: Further excuses for delay.]

He then went to visit his old comrade Colonel Potley, who was ill and kept his chamber. He
fell upon the discourse that it would be convenient for Whitelocke to stay here till the coronation
of the new King, that the treaty might be concluded by him: to which the same answers were
given by Whitelocke as he had before given to the master of the ceremonies.

Whilst the Lord Douglas was in Whitelocke's house, Grave Eric came to Whitelocke by command
of the Queen, to excuse the delay of his business, and that some of his audiences had been
remitted. He said, her Majesty had been informed by the master of the ceremonies that Whitelocke
should say he had demanded audiences three times, and could not obtain one. Whitelocke answered,
that there was a little mistake therein, though there was something near it, and said, it was
not his desire to occasion trouble to her Majesty. Eric answered, that the Queen desired Whitelocke
would excuse her by reason of the holidays, during which time they did not use in this country
to treat of any business, and that the Queen had likewise many other hindrances; but that whensoever
it should please Whitelocke to come to her Majesty, he would be very welcome. He said, he was
going out of town to his father to conduct him hither, and that within a day or two he would
visit Whitelocke, and that his business would have a speedy despatch. Whitelocke wished him
a good journey, and that he and his father might have a safe and speedy return hither.

Piementelle sent to Whitelocke to move the Queen to grant her pardon to a Swede who had killed
another, for which by the law he was to die; and Piementelle offered to second Whitelocke,
if he would entreat the Queen for her pardon to the homicide. Whitelocke desired to be excused
herein, alleging that he, being a public minister, it was not proper for him nor for Piementelle
to interpose with her Majesty in a matter of this nature, and particularly touching her own
subjects, and in a matter of blood; but this denial Piementelle seemed to take ill, and to
be more strange to Whitelocke afterwards.

The holidays being past, Piementelle had his audience appointed this day to take his leave
of the Queen. Whitelocke sent his son James and some others of his gentlemen to be present
at it, who reported to Whitelocke that Piementelle spake to the Queen in Spanish, and that
she answered him in Swedish, which was interpreted by Grave Tott; that Piementelle observed
very much ceremony, and when he made his public harangue to the Queen he grew very pale and
trembled, which was strange for a man of his parts, and who had been so frequent in his conversation
with her Majesty. But some said it was a high compliment, acted by the Spaniard to the life,
to please the Queen, who took delight to be thought, by her majesty and presence, to put a
dread and daunting upon foreigners; which in a truth she was noted often to do when public
ministers had their audiences in solemnity with her Majesty.

March 30, 1654.

[SN: An interview with the Queen.]

One of the Queen's lacqueys came to Whitelocke's house in dinner-time, to desire him, from
the Queen, to come to her at two o'clock. Whitelocke was a little sensible of the quality of
the messenger, and therefore himself would not speak with him, but sent his answer by one of
his servants, and accordingly waited on the Queen.

He was met at the guard-chamber by Grave Tott and divers of the Queen's servants, with more
solemnity than ordinary, and presently brought to the Queen. After her excuse of his not having
had audiences she fell into discourse of his business. Whitelocke presented to her a form of
articles, according to his own observations upon those articles he had formerly given in, and
upon those he received from Grave Eric. Thereupon the Queen said to him, "You will not consent
to any one of my articles, but insist upon all your own." Whitelocke showed her wherein he
had consented to divers of her articles, and for what reasons he could not agree to the rest.
They had discourse upon the whole, to the same effect as hath been before remembered.

The Queen told Whitelocke, that if those articles should not be concluded, that nevertheless
the amity between the two nations might be continued. Whitelocke answered, that it would be
no great testimony of amity, nor proof of respect to the Protector and Commonwealth, to send
back their servant after so long attendance, without effecting anything. The Queen said she
would despatch his business within a few days, and, she hoped, to his contentment. Whitelocke
told her it was in her Majesty's power to do it; that he could not stay until the change whereof
people discoursed, and that he had her Majesty's promise for his despatch, which he knew she
would not break.

Then the Queen fell into other discourses, and in particular of poetry; which occasion Whitelocke
took to show her a copy of Latin verses made by an English gentleman, a friend of Whitelocke's,
and sent over to him hither, and which he had now about him, and knew that such diversions
were pleasing to the Queen.[71]

At his leisure hours, Whitelocke turned these verses into English, which ran thus:--

    "To the most Illustrious and most Excellent Lord, the Lord
    Whitelocke, Ambassador Extraordinary to the Most Serene Queen of
    Sweden. An Ode.

    Whitelocke, delight of Mars, the ornament
    Of gownmen, from thy country being sent,
    Tribunals languish; Themis sad is led,
    Sighing under her mourning widow's bed.
    Without thee suitors in thick crowds do run,
    Sowing perpetual strife, which once begun,
    Till happy fate thee home again shall send,
    Those sharp contentions will have no end.
    But through the snowy seas and northern ways,
    When the remoter sun made shortest days,
    O'er tops of craggy mountains, paths untrod,
    Where untamed creatures only make abode,
    Thy love to thy dear country hath thee brought,
    Ambassador from England. Thou hast sought
    The Swedish confines buried in frost,
    Straight wilt thou see the French and Spanish coast;
    And them fast bind to thy loved Britany
    In a perpetual league of amity.
    So wilt thou arbitrator be of Peace,
    Her pious author; thou wilt cause to cease
    The sound of war, our ears it shall not pierce;
    Thou wilt be Chancellor of the universe.
    Christina, that sweet nymph, no longer shall
    Detain thee; be thou careful not to fall,
    Prudent Ulysses, under those delights
    To which the learned Circe thee invites.
    Thy chaste Penelope doth call thee slow;
    Thy friends call for thee home; and they do know
    New embassies, affairs abroad, at home,
    Require thy service,--stay till thou dost come.
    Thou, Keeper of the Seal, dost take away
    Foreign contentions; thou dost cause to stay
    The wars of princes. Shut thou Janus' gate,
    Ambassador of peace to every state."

The Queen was much delighted with these and other verses which Whitelocke showed her; read
them over several times, and desired copies of them, which Whitelocke sent her; and in this
good humour she wished Whitelocke to leave with her a copy of his articles as he had now revised
them, and to come to her again the next day, when she would give him a further answer, and,
she hoped, to his contentment.

[SN: Spain suspected of intriguing against the treaty.]

Woolfeldt visited Whitelocke, and excused his long absence by reason of the holidays. He informed
Whitelocke with much freedom, that it was against the interest of Spain that England and Sweden
should be in alliance together, and that Whitelocke's negotiation had been hindered by the
Spanish Resident here, more than by any other. Whereunto Whitelocke said little positively,
but compared his words with the late carriage of Piementelle,--especially since Whitelocke
did not so heartily entertain the Queen's motion (which probably Piementelle put her upon)
to have the Spaniard included in the league with England and Sweden, which Whitelocke was not
empowered to treat upon, and Whitelocke also remembered the deferring of his audiences lately
desired.[73] But these things he was to keep to himself, and to court Woolfeldt, which he did,
and Piementelle likewise, who came to visit Whitelocke whilst Woolfeldt was with him, and made
the same excuse as he had done for his long absence. They had much general discourse, but nothing
(as usually before) touching Whitelocke's business. Piementelle said he purposed to depart
from Upsal within seven or eight days; that yesterday he had taken his leave of the Queen,
and came in the next place to take his leave of Whitelocke, who gave him thanks for this honour,
and said he was sorry for the departure of Piementelle, whereby he should have a very great
loss in being deprived of the acceptable conversation of so honourable a friend.

[SN: Despatches from England complaining of delay.]

Whitelocke received many letters from England; in those from Thurloe he saith:--

    "I am sorry your last letters give us no greater hopes of that which
    we so much long for, to wit, your Excellence's speedy return home;
    it seeming by them that the treaty was not much advanced since your
    last before, notwithstanding the great care and diligence used by
    your Excellency for the promoting thereof, as also the great
    acceptance you have with the Queen and Court, as is acknowledged by
    other public ministers residing there. It is now more than probable
    they will expect the issue of the Dutch business before they will
    come to any conclusion; as also to see what terms we are like to be
    upon with France, that so the Queen may manage her treaty with
    England accordingly, which I suppose she may not be long ignorant
    of. In the meantime his Highness thinks he is somewhat delayed on
    her part."

Then Thurloe relates all the passages of the Dutch Ambassadors, and that, in effect, they had
agreed to the articles; of the endeavours of the French to have a league with the Protector,
and no less of the Spaniard. And he writes at large the news of the Archduke, as also that
of Scotland and Ireland, and confutes the rumour of a discontent in the army of the Protector.

In another letter from Thurloe of a later date, received by the same post, he saith thus:--

    "His Highness understands by your Excellence's last letters, that
    the treaty with the Queen of Sweden will much depend upon the treaty
    with the Dutch here, and until the issue of that be known no great
    matter is to be expected from your negotiation: concerning which, it
    being very probable that before the next ordinary it will be seen
    what issue the Dutch treaty will be brought unto, his Highness will
    refer his further directions to you till then; leaving it to your
    Excellence to proceed upon the former instructions as you shall find
    it convenient, and for his service according as affairs now stand."

The clause in this letter, of referring further directions till after the issue of the Dutch
treaty, was some trouble to Whitelocke's thoughts, fearing it might delay his return home;
but he laid hold upon the latter part of this letter, whereby it is left to Whitelocke to proceed
upon the former instructions as he should find it convenient and for his Highness's service;
which, as it reposed a great trust in Whitelocke, so it gave him warrant to conclude his treaty,
and obliged him to the more care to perform that trust which they had so fully put in him.

[SN: Claim on behalf of the Swedish ships in England.]

Mr. Bonnele representing to the Protector the losses which the Swedes suffered by the ships
of England, the Protector caused an answer thereunto to be returned, the copy whereof was sent
by Thurloe to Whitelocke, and was thus:--

    "Whereas Mr. Bonnele, Resident of the Queen of Sweden, hath, by a
    paper of the 4th of March, remonstrated to his Highness that several
    ships and goods belonging to the said Queen and her subjects are
    taken at sea by the ships of this State, and brought into these
    parts, contrary to the declaration of the Council of State, 1st
    April, 1653, whereby they did declare, that for preventing the
    present obstruction of trade, all ships truly belonging to the
    Queen or her subjects, of Sweden, that should bring with them
    certificates from her said Majesty, or the chief magistrate of the
    place from whence they come, grounded upon the respective oaths of
    the magistrates and loaders that the said ship and lading do belong
    bonâ fide to the said Queen or her subjects, and to no stranger
    whatsoever, should and might freely pass without interruption or
    disturbance. His Highness hath commanded that it be returned in
    answer to the said Resident, that although the said declaration was
    to be in force for the space of three months, in which time a form
    of passport and certificates was to be thought of for preventing
    fraud and collusion, yet no provision of that nature having been yet
    agreed upon, and it being contrary to his intention that the goods
    and ships belonging to her said Majesty or subjects (with whom he
    desires to conserve all good correspondence) should in the meantime
    suffer inconvenience or prejudice by the ships of this State, hath
    renewed, as he doth hereby renew, the said declaration with respect
    to the present treaty now on foot between the two nations, wherein
    some course may be provided for preventing the said frauds.

    "And to the end there may be the better effect of this declaration,
    his Highness hath given order to the Judges of the Admiralty that if
    any ships or goods be brought into these parts belonging to her
    Majesty or subjects, that the producing of certificates according to
    the said declaration, in open Court and upon oath made by them that
    do produce such certificates, that they are good and authentic, and
    obtained without fraud or deceit, that the Judges shall thereupon
    (there being no proof before them to the contrary) discharge the
    said ships or goods without further delay. Provided that such ships
    were not bound with contraband goods to the ports or harbours of any
    of the United Provinces.

    "For the herring-buss, there having been proceedings thereupon in
    the Court of Admiralty, and a sentence of condemnation given
    against her as belonging to the enemies of this State, his Highness
    does not conceive that it can be expected from him to interpose in
    matters belonging to the decision of that Court; besides, the law
    having in the ordinary course provided a remedy, by way of appeal,
    in case of wrong or injustice done by that Court.

    "For the goods of Mr. Alexander Cecconi, supposed to be taken by a
    ship belonging to this State, orders have been given by the Council
    concerning them, and some return made upon those orders; and the
    said Commissary may rest assured that speedy and effectual justice
    will be done in that particular.

                                                    "JO. THURLOE.
    "March 10th, 1653."

These orders of the Council Whitelocke caused to be translated into Latin, that he might communicate
them as he saw occasion.

March 31, 1654.

[SN: Reports to England.]

Whitelocke despatched a great number of letters to his friends in England: in those to Secretary
Thurloe he gave a full account of all transactions of his negotiations and passages here since
his last letters.

This day, though the post-day, Woolfeldt again visited Whitelocke, to his no little interruption
in his despatches; yet from him Whitelocke learned many things in relation to Denmark, for
the advantage of England, and Woolfeldt testified great affection and respect to the Protector
and Commonwealth. He was also interrupted by his attendance upon the Queen, according to her
appointment. The Chancellor came forth from her as Whitelocke went in, and he told Whitelocke
that the Queen, hearing of his being without, had sent to desire him to come in to her. Whitelocke
read some of his news to the Queen, and the paper which the Protector had caused to be given
to her Commissary Bonnele at London; upon which Whitelocke took the boldness a little to paraphrase,
and her Majesty was well pleased with it. They fell into discourse of the treaty, much to the
same effect as formerly; but Whitelocke staid the less time with her Majesty, because he presumed
that the Chancellor and his son waited without to speak with her about his business. She promised
Whitelocke to send him an answer of his business the next day, and that one of her ships should
be ready at the Dollars (the mouth of the haven of Stockholm) to transport him to Lübeck when
he should desire it; which was acceptable to Whitelocke to think on, and he thanked her Majesty
for it.

Thus was March passed over, full of trouble, yet nothing effected in his business.

FOOTNOTES:

[41] [The Ambassador's verses I have ventured to omit, as alike destitute of elegance, point,
or metre.]

[71] "Ad Illustrissimum et Excellentissimum Dominum, Dominum Whitelocke, Legatum Angliæ Extraordinarium
apud Serenissimam Sueciæ Reginam. Ode.

    "Vitloce, Martis deliciæ, decus
          Gentis legatæ; te sine, languidum
          Moeret tribunal, et cubili
          In viduo Themis ingemiscit.
    Denso cientes agmine cursitant,
    Et sempiternas te sine consuunt
          Lites, neque hic discordiarum
          Finis erit, nisi tu revertas.
    Sed te nivosum per mare, per vias
    Septentrionum, per juga montium,
          Inhospitales per recessus
          Duxit amor patriæ decorus.
    Legatus oras jam Sueonum vides
    Bruma sepultas; mox quoque Galliam,
          Hispaniam mox cum Britannis
          Foedere perpetuo ligabis.
    Sic pacis author, sic pius arbiter
    Gentes per omnes qua sonuit tuba
          Dicere; cancellariusque
          Orbis eris simul universi.
    Christina, dulcis nympha, diutiùs
    Ne te moretur: qui merito clues
          Prudens Ulysses, sperne doctæ
          Popula deliciasque Circes.
    Te casta tentum Penelope vocat,
    Vocant amici, teque aliæ vocant
          Legationes, te requirunt
          Ardua multa domi forisque.
    Custos Sigilli tu dirimes cito
    Pugnas forenses, bellaque principum
          Legatus idem terminabis:
          Tu (sera candida) claude fanum."

[73] [This change was probably the consequence of the negotiations then going on between Louis
XIV. and Cromwell in London, which had excited the jealousy of the Spanish Court, as is stated
by Thurloe in the next page.]

APRIL.

April 1, 1654.

[SN: A capital execution in Sweden.]

In the morning, in the market-place, near Whitelocke's lodging, was an execution of one adjudged
to die for a murder. The offender was brought into the midst of the market-place, which was
open and spacious, and a great multitude of people spectators. The offender kneeled down upon
the ground, a great deal of sand being laid under and about him to soak up his blood, and a
linen cloth was bound about his eyes: he seemed not much terrified, but when the company sang
a psalm, he sang with them, holding up his hands together, and his body upright, his doublet
off. He prayed also with the company, but made no speech to them; nor did any other speak to
the people. The executioner stood behind him, with a great naked sword in his hand and a linen
apron before him, and while the offender was praying the headsman in an instant, at one back-blow,
cut off his head, which fell down upon the sand; and some friends took it from the executioner,
and carried it away with the body to be buried. Presently after this execution was past, two
other offenders for smaller crimes were brought to the same place, to suffer the punishment
of the law, which they call running the gauntlet,--a usual punishment among soldiers.

[SN: Running the gauntlet.]

The people stood in length in the market-place about a hundred yards, leaving an open space
or lane between them of about five yards' distance; then the offender, being naked to the waist,
was brought to one end of the lane or open place. The people had rods or switches of birch
given to as many as would take them; the offender was to run or go, as he pleased (and one
of them walked but a Spanish pace), from one end of the lane of people to the other, twice
or thrice forward and backward; and all the way as he went, the people who had the switches
lashed the offender as he passed by them, harder or softer, as they favoured him. These are
the most usual ways of executions which they have for criminal offences, and they do not execute
men by hanging, which they say is only fit for dogs; but in cases of great robberies and murders
sometimes they execute justice by breaking the offenders upon the wheel, and leave the quarters
of the body upon it; some whereof were in the way as Whitelocke passed in his journey by the
great wilderness.

[SN: Vestiges of the Scandinavian mythology.]

In the afternoon Senator Schütt came to Whitelocke and invited him to take the air to see the
town of old Upsal, about a mile off; and being there, Schütt showed him three great mounts
of earth, cast up by the hands of men, for monuments in memory of their ancient famous kings,
whose seat had been here, and the place of their coronation. These mounts had been dedicated
to three of their Pagan gods: the one to the god whom they call Teuo, who was Mars, and from
him they have the name of the day of the week Teuosdag, which we call Tuesday, and the Germans
Tuisconsdæg, and the Latins Dies Martis; the second mount was dedicated to their god Woden,
so they called Mercury, and from thence their day of the week is named Wodensdag, which we
also call Wednesday, the Germans Wodensdæg, and the Latins Dies Mercurii; the third mount was
dedicated to their goddess Freya, so they called Venus, and from thence comes the name of their
Friedsdag, which we call Friday, the Germans Frigdæg, and the Latins Dies Veneris.

There were also other relics of decayed mounts, which Whitelocke guessed to have been dedicated
to their other gods, from whom they gave the names of the other days of the week: as, to Thor,
whom they called Jupiter, and, from whence the day Thoresdag, which we call Thursday, the Germans
say Thorsdæg, and the Latins Dies Jovis; another mount dedicated to their god Setorn, from
whence they call Setornsdag, as we say Saturday, the Germans Sæternsdæg, and the Latins Dies
Saturni; another mount dedicated to Sunnan, as they call the Sun, and from thence that day
Sunnandag{4}, as we say Sunday, the Germans Sunnandæg, and the Latins Dies Solis; the last
mount dedicated to Monan, that is the Moon, and from thence the name of their Monandag, which
we call Monday, the Germans Monandæg, and the Latins Dies Lunæ.

[SN: The war between Muscovy and Poland.]

In discourse upon the way, Schütt informed Whitelocke of the matter of the embassy from the
Great Duke of Muscovia to the Queen of Sweden, which was to acquaint her Majesty that the Great
Duke had begun a war against the King of Poland, because in a letter of his to the Great Duke
he had omitted one of his great titles,--a heinous offence, and held by the Great Duke a sufficient
ground of war, and of his resolution to sacrifice the blood of his fellow-Christians to satisfy
his wicked pride. Another ground of the war was because a certain Governor of a province in
Poland, in a writing, had placed the name of the father of the Great Duke before the name of
the present Great Duke; which was so great an indignity, that for the same the now Great Duke
demanded of the King of Poland to have the head of that Governor sent to him, and that not
being done, was another cause of the begun war. To this the Queen answered, that it did not
appertain to her to give her opinion in a matter of this nature, whether she did approve or
disapprove of what was done by the Great Duke, but she did presume that the King of Poland
would therein give fitting satisfaction to the Great Duke; and that she did wish that there
might be peace between these two Princes and all the Princes of Christendom. And with this
answer the Envoys of the Great Duke returned as wise as they came.

[SN: Denmark threatens Hamburg.]

Schütt also communicated unto Whitelocke an intelligence that the King of Denmark had levied
some forces which he designed against Hamburg,--pretending injuries done to him by that city
in relation to his pretensions of dominion there, which probably might occasion a war between
Denmark and that free city, which had strength and riches and people and wisdom to defend themselves;
and Schütt advised Whitelocke that if this should be so, that then he should take his voyage
some other way, and that it would be a great disturbance and danger to him to go by Hamburg
and those quarters, which would be infested with soldiers, and that then it would be his best
way to return by Gothenburg; but he did persuade Whitelocke by all means to salute the Prince
of Sweden by the way of his return. Whitelocke said he thought it not probable that the King
of Denmark would at this time engage in a war against Hamburg, and that his levying of soldiers
might breed a jealousy in the Crown of Sweden; that the certainty thereof could not be long
undiscovered, and accordingly he should govern his own resolutions; that it would be difficult
for him to stay in his journey to salute the Prince, but he much desired and intended it before
his departure.

April 2, 1654.

Although the Lord's Day, yet the English and Scots who were in the town, and not of Whitelocke's
family, went abroad to take the air, and did not resort, as they used to do, to Whitelocke's
house to the exercises of divine worship, which were duly performed in his private family;
and after those sacra peracta, Whitelocke retired himself to his private studies and meditations
upon the word of truth. This day likewise the Queen went abroad to take the air, and passed
through the town in her coach, attended by many gentlemen and others in her train, to the ill
example of her people, and after the bad custom of this place.

April 3, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke takes the air with the Queen.]

The Queen sent to Whitelocke to invite him to accompany her to take the air.

By the way Whitelocke visited Woolfeldt, who had much discourse with him about the English
fleet then at sea. From him Whitelocke went to Court, and attended the Queen in her coach to
take the air. They had not much discourse about his business, and he thought not fit to interrupt
her Majesty's pleasures with serious discourses, but sought to delight her with matters of
diversion and mirth. When they were come back to the castle, the Queen said to Whitelocke:--

Queen. Tomorrow my Chancellor will present you with the articles drawn up by him, with some
alterations which I judge to be reasonable; and that shall be my final resolution about them.

Wh. Hath your Majesty commanded any mention in those new articles concerning contraband goods?

Qu. There is a specification of them.

Wh. Indeed, Madam, I can hardly consent to any alteration upon the subject of contraband goods,
whilst the edict of the Hollanders is in force thereupon.

Qu. After you have considered these new articles, we will speak together again about them.

Then the Queen retired to her chamber, and Whitelocke being come home, the Secretary Canterstein
came to him from the Chancellor to excuse his not coming to visit Whitelocke, and said that,
by the Queen's command, the Chancellor had sent a new copy of articles to Whitelocke. He presently
read them, and had much discourse with the secretary upon them, who said he did not doubt but
that, after communication with the Chancellor, Whitelocke would receive satisfaction.

April 4, 1654.

Whitelocke visited Piementelle, and they had this discourse:--

Piementelle. The Ambassador of Denmark did me the honour to visit me, and we had much discourse
together about the English fleet now at sea; he told me that in it were ten thousand foot soldiers
embarked for the North, which would occasion great trouble to the King his master, if it should
be so, which I acknowledged.

Whitelocke. Your Excellence knows that I have not been at the Council of State in England for
six months last past, so that I know not the secret designs of my Lord Protector; but I believe
it is no very difficult matter to land men in Denmark.

Piem. What progress hath the French Ambassador made in the treaty between you and France?

Wh. If the Queen will be pleased to give my despatch, I hope to be upon the place before the
treaty with the French be concluded. I have somewhat to communicate to the Protector touching
a treaty with Spain, which your Lordship very well knows; and it would be to purpose that his
Highness should know it before the conclusion of a treaty between England and France.[85]

Piem. I am assured that the Queen will despatch you in good time. But I advise your Excellence
in your return not to pass by Denmark, for it is ill trusting of that King; but your better
way will be to Lübeck, and from thence to Hamburg, and if you do not find ships ready there,
you may travel by land to Cologne, and from thence to Dunkirk; which will be much better than
to go by Holland, where they do exceedingly exact upon strangers, and your Commonwealth hath
more enemies there than in any other place, besides the common people are rude and insolent.

Wh. I am engaged to you for your good advice, which I intend to follow.

After their discourse, Whitelocke presented Piementelle his medal in gold very like him, and
it was received by Piementelle with much affection. Then Piementelle entreated Whitelocke to
give him a passport for his servant, who had the charge of conducting his baggage by sea to
Dunkirk, that he might freely pass the men-of-war of England; the which was willingly done
by Whitelocke, under his hand and seal.[86]

April 5, 1654.

[SN: Conference with the Chancellor.]

In the morning Whitelocke went to the Chancellor's lodging, and found his son Grave Eric with
him. The Chancellor made a long apology to excuse the delay of the treaty, and said:--

Chancellor. My indisposition of health hath chiefly occasioned the delay, yet was I so solicitous
of your business, that I entreated the Queen to appoint some other person in my stead, who
might confer with your Excellence; and her Majesty was pleased to appoint my son for that service.

Whitelocke. I was very sorry for your Excellence's want of health, both in regard of my affection
to your person, and in respect of the protraction of my business; yet I was glad that your
son, my Lord Eric, was appointed to confer with me, and had rather have the transaction of
my business by yourself or some of your family than by any other. I am now come to you to confer
upon those articles which yesterday I received from you.

Then Whitelocke gave the Chancellor a paper of his animadversions upon his articles. The debate
began upon the ninth article; and as to the sale of goods taken from enemies and prohibiting
the buying of arms, the Chancellor said this would abolish their trade, and would be of no
advantage to England, because those arms, and equally as good, might be had from other places;
and if the English did light upon them, they would have the benefit by it. Whitelocke said
it would be a great inconvenience to furnish the enemies of either nation with arms which could
not be had elsewhere than in England or Sweden, and that this clause would put a bridle in
the mouths of the enemies of either nation. The Chancellor and his son replied that arms might
be had in the province of Liége,[88] and in many other places in Germany; that Sweden scarce
afforded any other commodities but arms, or such things as were serviceable for war; and that
the Queen would by no means be induced to that clause as Whitelocke would have it.

Then they debated upon the eleventh article, the issue whereof was for Whitelocke to consent
to a special designation of prohibited goods. Whitelocke desired that the catalogue and designation
of them might be referred to his return into England, and he would agree that within two months
after that there should be a specification of prohibited goods in the name of the Protector.

The Chancellor urged that the specification might be now agreed upon, and produced a paper
specifying them, which they alleged was delivered by the Council in England unto Bonnele. Whitelocke
said he did not remember the same, and that he was ignorant what goods were prohibited by the
Dutch placard, which was fit to be known before any specification made by him.

Upon the twelfth article Whitelocke urged, that as to the form of the letters of safe-conduct,
it might also be referred to his return into England. They produced a form exhibited by Lagerfeldt
to the Council in England, and desired that the same form might be now agreed upon. Whitelocke
answered that the Council of State had not approved the form given in by Lagerfeldt, and therefore
it was not fit for him to consent to it; nor could he apprehend any reason why they should
not consent to refer the agreement of a form unto his return to England; and the rather, because
in the meantime the subjects of the Queen might enjoy the benefit of an edict made by the Protector
in great favour of them, which declaration Whitelocke had caused to be delivered to the Chancellor.

To the thirteenth article, as to satisfaction of damages, their debate was to the like effect
as formerly.

Upon the sixteenth article they had also debate. Whitelocke desired that the words "de usu
littorum in piscatione" might be altered to these words, "de piscatione et usu littorum." They
alleged that this would seem to deny their fishing upon their own coasts. Whitelocke said,
the other would seem as if England had given up their right as to the fishing, and left all
at liberty to those that pleased to take it.

This was the sum of the debate of near three hours. The conclusion was that they would certify
the Queen of all these matters, and in short acquaint Whitelocke with her answer; which he
desired might be as speedy and positive as they pleased, because if they should reduce him
to that necessity, that before he could agree he must send to the Protector to know his pleasure,
he could not receive an answer of his letters in less than two months' space, within which
time the Queen purposed to resign her government, and then his commission would be at an end.
The Chancellor said he desired Whitelocke should be speedily in England, not only for the sake
of his wife and children, but likewise because then they could promise themselves that they
had a good friend in England.

[SN: Alarm excited by the English fleet.]

Whitelocke visited the French Resident, who was very inquisitive what might be the design of
the English fleet now at sea; whereunto, as to much other of his discourse, Whitelocke did
not much study for answers, only he was careful not to let fall any words which might lessen
their amusement about the fleet.[90]

In the evening Woolfeldt visited Whitelocke and discoursed of the same matter; whereof Whitelocke
made some use and of this gentleman, to heighten their jealousies about this fleet. Woolfeldt
acquainted Whitelocke that the Ambassador of Denmark had made a complaint against him to the
Queen, that Woolfeldt had deceived the late King of Denmark of certain sums of money, which
he should have disbursed for the late King of England against the Parliament; and that the
present King of Denmark having been informed that Woolfeldt had lost his papers at sea, and
so could not produce his acquittances, the King took the advantage thereof against Woolfeldt,
and now, by his Ambassador, charged him before the Queen for those moneys: but that he disappointed
the Danish Ambassador by producing before the Queen his papers and acquittances, which his
enemies believed had had been lost; and so was justified before the Queen, to the great discontent
of the Ambassador. Whitelocke said he was very glad that Woolfeldt came so well off, and that
he perceived the Queen had, by the the treaty, a capacity, as well as by his residence, to
examine and do right in such matters.

[SN: Conversation of a Danish gentleman who betrays his country.]

This day Whitelocke had discourse about Norway and the Sound with a Danish gentleman of great
quality and experience whom he had obliged, who desired to have his name concealed;[91] but
part of this discourse follows:--

Dane. Now is a good time for the Protector to send some ships towards these parts.

Whitelocke. What places are there in Norway considerable as to the interest of England?

Dane. There are two places in Norway not far from Gothenburg which are easy to be taken, and
are excellent harbours, wherein England might keep some ships constantly, and command all that
pass by to the Baltic Sea.

Wh. What are the names of those places?

Dane. The one of those havens is called Marstrang; but that I do not like so well because of
the Paternoster Rocks, which are very dangerous for coming out if the wind sit northerly, and
the fort there is commanded by the hills near it. But the other place, called Flecker Town,
is an island, and hath a going-in and coming-out two ways; it is an excellent harbour, and
ships may ride in it at such a distance from the land (being a broad water) that none from
the land can hurt them. There is a little fort in this island which may easily be taken, not
having above forty or fifty men in it, and the works decayed. Those who assail it must land
their men on the south-east side of the island, the fort being on the other side, and they
may easily be masters of it; and from thence having some ships, they may go in and out at their
pleasure, and command all passing by; and none can come into the harbour to them if they make
up the fort, which is soon done, and the passage not above musket-shot to be commanded, and
there are no guns there of any consideration at this time.

Wh. How shall they do for victuals there to get fresh from the land?

Dane. There is plenty of butter and cheese, sheep and hogs; and the poor country people will
be no trouble to you, but be willing to be commanded by you.

Wh. What towns are there near it?

Dane. Higher in the country is Bergen, the chief town for trade there, and rich enough. Your
ships may easily come into that harbour, and plunder the town and get a great booty, and return
to Fleckeren Town again.

Wh. Is there anything to be done at Iceland?

Dane. I wonder you do not send, in August or September, four or five ships to Iceland, being
men-of-war. They may have twenty or thirty Dutch ships, laden with fish, butter, and hides,
which will make no resistance at all; and it would be a rich prize, and might be had without
danger or difficulty.

Wh. Is the castle of Elsinore so strong a piece that it cannot be taken without much expense
and danger?

Dane. This will not be the best design for England: it is a small, strong castle, and doth
not signify much; though it be esteemed a piece of importance, it is not so.

Wh. It commands the passage of the Sound.

Dane. Most men believe so, but it is mistaken. I have seen an experiment to the contrary, that
a boat, being placed in the middle of that narrow passage of the Sound, they shot at it from
the castle of Elsinore, and likewise from the castle of Helsingborg on the other side, with
the greatest guns they had, and yet they could not reach the boat from either side by two thousand
paces; nor is it so narrow in the passage but that a ship may, when she pleaseth, sail by those
castles in despite of them.

Wh. What harbour is there at Elsinore?

Dane. There is no harbour for ships to ride in, and in foul weather they will be in danger
to be all lost, because they must ride in the open sea, which there is extreme perilous; and
therefore Elsinore is not worth the keeping, if England had it. But their best design would
be to go directly to the town of Copenhagen with fifty or sixty good ships, with landsmen in
them; and it is easy enough to take that town, for the works of it are not strong, nor is it
well guarded, and it would be easier to take that town than Elsinore; and if England were masters
of it, the castle would quickly come in to them; and at the town they should have a good haven
for their ships, and a small matter would build a better fort near the town than Elsinore is,
and would command the passage more than the castles do, and make you masters of the Sound and
of all the trade of the Baltic Sea.

Wh. What revenue would be gained thereby?

Dane. More than will maintain your ships and forces there, and will command all the island
of Zealand.

Wh. I should be glad to meet you there.

Dane. If you summon me by your letters, I will give you a meeting at Copenhagen, or those whom
the Protector will send thither; and if you will meet me there, I doubt not but to show you
a way to get that town without much difficulty; and then you will have all the isle of Zealand,
which is the best part of Denmark, and the rest will follow, being weary of the present tyranny
and ill-usage of their King. And if you were masters of Zealand, you might thereby keep in
awe the Swede, the Hollander, and all the world that have occasion for the commodities of the
Baltic Sea.

Wh. Why then doth not the King of Denmark now keep them in such awe?

Dane. Because he hath neither the money nor ships nor men that England hath.

Wh. What is the ground and reason of payment of the tolls at Elsinore, if ships may pass by
without the leave of the castles there?

Dane. Because that is known but to a very few; and what I have told you is under secresy, and
I desire that none but the Protector may know it from you; and as for the grounds of paying
the tolls at Elsinore, it is rather from the keeping of the lights in Jutland and upon that
coast, than from any command that Elsinore hath of the ships that go that way.

Wh. I have heard those lights are very useful.

Dane. Unless they were kept, it would be impossible for ships to sail there in the long nights
in winter; and the trade doth enforce them to come that way in October and November, when the
nights are very long, because of bringing wine into those parts after the vintage, which is
in September.

Wh. They are likewise to carry home corn, which is not inned till August and September. Did
not the Hollanders refuse to pay the toll?

Dane. Once they did, and thereupon the last King of Denmark, by advice, commanded that the
lights upon the coast should not be kept; and the Hollanders in that autumn lost above thirty
ships upon the Danish coast, and came and entreated the King that the lights might be kept
again, and promised to pay the tolls as formerly, and have done so ever since.

Wh. Let me say to you, in freedom, how can you, being a native of Denmark, satisfy yourself
to discover these things to me, whereby prejudice may come to your country?

Dane. I do not think I betray my country in this, though, my country having left me to be an
exile, I might justly leave them; and wheresoever I breathe and am maintained is more my country
than that where I was born, and which will not let me breathe there; yet in this I think I
may do good service to Denmark, to free them from the tyranny they are under, and to bring
them into the free government of the Protector, to whom I shall do any service in my power.
But for the King of Denmark, he is governed by his Queen and a few of her party, men of no
honour nor wisdom nor experience in public affairs, but proud and haughty, according to the
way of these parts of the world.

Wh. I shall not fail to make known to the Protector your great affections to him.

April 6, 1654.

[SN: Effects of the English fleet in the North.]

Monsieur Miller, who had been Resident at Hamburg for her Majesty, came to visit Whitelocke,
and after dinner discoursed much of the English fleet now at sea, which, he said, did amuse
all the northern parts of the world, what the design thereof might be. Whitelocke did not lessen
the wonder, especially in relation to Denmark; yet affirmed nothing positively, as indeed he
could not. He inquired of Monsieur Miller if the King of Denmark were making any preparations
at sea, or of land forces, or had any design towards Hamburg. Miller said he knew of none,
and in his discourse gave Whitelocke good information of the government, strength, and trade
of that Hanse Town.

The Secretary Canterstein came to Whitelocke from the Chancellor, and brought to him the articles
upon which they had last treated, now altered according to Whitelocke's desire, except that
which concerned the forbidding of our enemies to buy arms in the countries of our confederates.
He also delivered to Whitelocke the draft of a preamble for the articles, and another article
for the ratifying of all the rest; whereunto Whitelocke consented, and thanked God that his
business was brought so near to a good conclusion. Whitelocke received his packet from England,
and Thurloe wrote that the Protector was sensible of the Queen's delaying of Whitelocke, but
approved his proceedings. He sent this enclosed order:--

    "AT THE COUNCIL CHAMBER, WHITEHALL:
    "Friday, 17 Martii, 1653.

    [SN: Order in Council in the matter of a Swedish prize.]

    "On consideration of a letter, this day read in Council, sent from
    the Lord Ambassador Extraordinary with her Majesty of Sweden,
    mentioning, among other things, the taking of the ship 'Charity,'
    Paul Paulsen, master, by a private man-of-war, and the carrying of
    her into Dover, and the hard usage of the master and mariners, which
    ship is claimed by some citizens of Gothenburg, subjects of the said
    Queen:

    "Ordered, That it be referred to the Commissioners of the
    Admiralty speedily to put this matter in a way of examination; and,
    for their information in the premises, to send for the commander of
    the said man-of-war, and to receive a particular account and
    satisfaction concerning the disposal of the ship and goods, and the
    usage of the master and mariners, and thereupon to state the whole
    case and report it to the Council, to the intent speedy justice may
    be done therein; and the said Commissioners are likewise to take
    order that all further proceedings touching the said ship, or her
    lading or disposal of any part thereof, be stayed and forborne till
    their report made and further order thereupon shall be given by the
    Council.

                               "W. JESSOP, Clerk of the Council."

Thurloe wrote that in case the information given to Whitelocke were found to be true, that
the parties offending would be severely punished and right done to those who were injured;
and that the Council were very sensible hereof, as a hindrance to Whitelocke's proceedings
and a dishonour to the Protector. He also wrote unto Whitelocke that there was little scruple
now of an agreement upon the Dutch treaty, which was as good as concluded; and he sent the
news of France and of Scotland and Ireland, as well as that of England, as he constantly used
to do. Whitelocke caused this order to be translated into Latin, and made use of it for the
advantage of his business.

A description was given to Whitelocke, in writing, of the manner of making gunpowder in these
parts, and of their mills and vessels for it, not unlike in many things to their way in England.

April 7, 1654.

[SN: The Queen's plans after abdication.]

Whitelocke waited on the Queen, and she was pleased to discourse with him to this effect:--

Queen. I am resolved to retire into Pomerland, and this summer to go to the Spa to drink the
waters for my health.

Whitelocke. Give me leave, Madam, to put you in mind of two things to be specially taken care
of: one is the security of your own person, the other is the settling of your revenue. Your
Majesty, being of a royal and bountiful spirit, cannot look into such matters so much beneath
you as expenses or accounts; and if care be not taken therein, and good officers, your Majesty
may be disappointed and deceived.

Qu. I thank you for this counsel. I intend to have Mr. Flemming with me, to take charge of
my revenue; he is a discreet, wise man, and fit for that employment, and to order the expenses
of my house; I believe he will neither deceive me himself nor permit others to do it, for he
is faithful to me.

Wh. Such a servant is a jewel. I hope care is taken that your Majesty's revenue be secured
in such a manner that you shall not depend upon the pleasure of any other for the receipt of
it, but to be in your power as mistress of it, not as a pensioner.

Qu. It shall be settled according to the advice you gave me, and I thank you for it.

Wh. Madam, I account it a happiness if in anything I may be serviceable to your Majesty. Whom
doth your Majesty take with you beside Mr. Flemming of that quality?

Qu. I desire the company of Mr. Woolfeldt and his lady, if they will go with me.

Wh. I suppose they will be very serviceable to your Majesty; and I hope it will not be long,
after the business here effected, before you transport yourself into Pomerland, lest any designs
should be against your liberty, for, Madam, in this age there be few persons to be trusted.

Qu. That is too great a truth, and I thank you for the caution. I could freely trust yourself
with any of my concernments; and if you will come to me into Pomerland, you shall be as welcome
as any man living, and we will be merry together.

Wh. I humbly thank your Majesty for your great favour to your servant, who hath a wife and
children enough to people a province in Pomerland, and I shall bring them all thither to do
your Majesty service.

Qu. If you will bring your lady and all your children and family thither, and settle yourself
there, you shall want nothing in my power, and shall be very welcome to me.

Wh. I am your Majesty's most humble servant; and I pray, Madam, give me leave to ask your Majesty,
whether you judge it requisite for me to wait on the Prince of Sweden before my going out of
this country.

Qu. I think it very fit and necessary for you to see the Prince before you leave this country;
it will be taken as a respect from the Protector to him, and if you do not, it will be looked
upon as a neglect of him.

Wh. I am obliged to do all that lies in my power to enlarge the Protector's interest.

Qu. The Prince being to succeed in the Crown, and in so short a time, it will be fit to keep
a fair correspondence with him and to show respect to him, whereof your visit will be a good
testimony.

Wh. Madam, your opinion will be a great direction to me in my affairs.

Qu. I think it will be an advantage to your business for you to speak with the Prince himself,
who will take it in good part, and hold himself the more obliged to the observance of what
shall be agreed upon in your present treaty, being acquainted therewith by you that made it.

Wh. I hope the treaty which your Majesty shall make will be observed by any who shall succeed
you; but I acknowledge it is very advisable for me to have some discourse with his Royal Highness,
to give him an account of the treaty, and I shall inquire where I may attend him.

Qu. You must go from hence to Stockholm, and so to Nordköping, and the castle where the Prince
now resides is within a league of that town; you may have my coaches and horses to transport
you, and my servants to guide you thither.

Wh. I humbly desire your Majesty to make choice of any of my coach-horses or saddle-horses
that may be useful for you, and to command them; they are all at your Majesty's service.

Qu. I shall not make choice of any; but if you bestow any of them upon me, they will be very
acceptable.

Wh. I humbly acknowledge your Majesty's great favour in affording a despatch to my business.

Qu. I wish you with the Protector, because I see you are a faithful servant to him, and worthy
to serve any prince in Christendom.

Wh. Your Majesty ever had a favour for me, and in nothing more than in my despatch.

Qu. I think it not fit for you to be in Sweden too near the time of the coronation of the new
King; and then to go away, and not to see him, would be worse.

Wh. I do intend, upon your Majesty's advice, to salute him before my going away, and shall
desire that the ships may meet me near the place where his Royal Highness is.

Qu. I will give order for it, and will be gone myself not long after; if I had staid here I
should have been glad of your longer stay.

Whitelocke took his leave of the Queen, and, being returned home, Field-Marshal Wrangel visited
him, and after dinner, being in a good humour, discoursed freely and much of the English fleet
at sea. Whitelocke showed him a draught of the ship 'Sovereign,' with her dimensions, guns,
and men, wherewith he was much pleased. He told Whitelocke that, by command of the Queen, he
had prepared ships for Whitelocke's transportation from Stockholm to Lübeck.

[SN: Whitelocke reports on the treaty to Thurloe.]

Whitelocke made his despatches for England, and in his letters to Thurloe gave this account
of the treaty:--

    "1. Their first article differs not in substance from the first
    which I proposed, and therefore I did not object against it; but as
    to all of them, I reserved a liberty to myself of further
    consideration and objection. I did a little stick upon the word
    'colonias' in this article, lest it might tend to anything of
    commerce in America; but finding it only to relate to the amity, I
    passed it over.

    "2. The first part of it agrees in substance with my sixth article,
    the latter part of it with my fourth article; only I objected
    against their words in this article, 'in damnum illius,' who should
    be judge thereof, and the omission of that part of my fourth article
    against harbouring of enemies and rebels.

    "3. Their third article agrees in substance with my second article,
    but is more general, not naming the Sound, and explaining the word
    'aliorsum' in my second article; and I desired that the word
    'populos' might be added after the word 'subditos.'

    "4. Their fourth in the beginning agrees with my third article; that
    of it touching the trade of America and the fishing I answered, as I
    gave you a former account, and thereupon denied it, as also that
    part of it which concerns importation of goods in foreign bottoms,
    being contrary to our Act of Parliament. In this latter end of
    their fourth article they likewise bring in again the business of
    fishing implicitly in the words 'maribus, littoribus,' etc., and
    therefore I desired that all that part might be left out, and in
    lieu thereof I offered the latter part of my third article beginning
    with the words 'solutis tamen,' etc., and the last of my reserved
    articles to be admitted; or else, I desired that this whole article
    of theirs might be omitted, and in lieu thereof my third article,
    and the last of my reserved articles to be admitted; and they
    likewise insist to have these words added if that part of their
    fourth article be omitted, viz. 'quoad Americæ commercium,
    piscationem halecum, et mercium importationem, de his in posterum
    erit conventum.'

    "5. Their fifth article agrees in substance with my eleventh, only
    hath more words to express the same matter.

    "6. Their sixth agrees in substance with my thirteenth article, with
    the addition of words for kind usage, and the omission of the
    proviso in my thirteenth article as to breaking of bulk; which yet
    seems to be supplied by the latter part of their sixth article, of
    conforming to the ordinances of the place.

    "7. Agrees with my reserved article, marked with fifteen, only the
    words 'nihil inde juris' I thought fit to be omitted, because in the
    treaty we are not to meddle with particular rights; yet the sense
    and desire thereof is answered in the words for restitution. I
    offered them, if they liked not this, my fifteenth article, which is
    one of those reserved, omitting only that part as not conducing to
    this article, viz. 'Et si lis,' etc.

    "8. Agrees in substance with my twelfth article, only the
    expressions here are longer; and that for justice to be had agrees
    with the latter part of my reserved article fifteenth.

    "9. In the general differs not in the substance from my seventh, and
    the beginning of my reserved articles; and the laws in this ninth
    article, first, second, third, and fourth, are not contrary to the
    substance of mine; but to the fifth I excepted, as contrary to part
    of my seventh article, and to their sixth law, as to bringing in of
    ships and goods from enemies; both which nevertheless, in case we
    have peace with the Dutch, will be more to our advantage, in my
    humble opinion, to continue in than to be omitted; as also that not
    to contend in the harbours; and so the first, second, third, and
    fourth laws. The seventh law, I humbly conceive, not differing in
    substance from my articles, nor disadvantageous to England. To their
    sixth law I desired that my seventh article might be added, the
    which they denied, as to forbid enemies to either to buy arms, etc.

    "10. Agrees in part with my ninth, only the latter part of it seems
    to bring in the trade of America, and a liberty contrary to the Act
    of Navigation; but they insist that the same is saved by the latter
    words of this article, 'modò consuetudines antiquæ;' but I was not
    satisfied herewith, and desired that that part of it which is marked
    might be omitted, and the latter part of my ninth article, viz.
    'utrisque utrinque observantibus,' etc. inserted, which I humbly
    conceive will help it; or else I desire that this tenth article may
    be wholly omitted, and in lieu thereof my ninth may be agreed.

    "11. To this article of theirs I wholly excepted, because it agrees
    not with any of mine, nor with reason, that when our enemies have
    forbidden any to bring contraband goods to us, that yet we should
    permit them to be brought unto our enemies. They told me that the
    Queen had sent unto the States to repeal that placard of theirs. I
    answered, that when I was certified that that placard was repealed,
    I would then desire to know the Protector's further pleasure herein;
    but before that be done, I thought it would be in vain to trouble
    him about it.

    "12. Is not expressly in any of my articles, but agreed by the
    Council of State unto Mr. Lagerfeldt, only the form of the letters
    of safe-conduct not fully assented unto; therefore I desired that
    the same might be remitted to a future agreement; but as to the rest
    of this article, it is not repugnant to the substance of mine, that
    the navigation and commerce may be free.

    "13. In the first part of it agrees almost verbatim with my tenth
    article; the latter part of it, concerning satisfaction for losses,
    is much altered from what it was at first exhibited, and is now put
    on both parties, and referred to future agreement, wherein there can
    be no prejudice to our Commonwealth; but before, it was reproachful
    to the justice thereof and laid on our part only; now it is no more
    than what the Council and State promised in their papers to Mr.
    Lagerfeldt.

    "14. Agrees in substance with my ninth article.

    "15. Contains the substance of my fifth article, but is expressed
    more generally, and, as I humbly believe, no less to the advantage
    of our Commonwealth.

    "I found more readiness in the Queen to consent to what I proposed
    than in her Commissioners; but some things she told me she could not
    consent to, because they were against the interest of her people,
    and were not considerable to England. I gave her thanks for my
    despatch. She said she had an ambition to have the honour of making
    an alliance with the Protector herself before she quitted the
    Government, and that she might testify her respects to him, and
    therefore had gone as far as possibly she could; and indeed there is
    now very little difference, but only in words and expressions, from
    the sense and substance of what I first proposed. And I presume that
    what is here agreed by me will give good satisfaction and
    contentment to the Protector and Council, and I apprehend it clearly
    within my instructions; acknowledging the goodness of God to me in
    this business, where I met with so many difficulties, and of so
    great weight, that yet in a fortnight's time it should be brought to
    a full conclusion, with honour and advantage to the Protector and
    present Government, for which I have taken all care.

    "The articles are not yet drawn up, but I hope we shall sign them
    the next week, and presently after I intend to demand audience to
    take my leave and to remove from hence, and, as soon as I can, to
    come to Lübeck, and from thence to Hamburg; and I have by this post
    humbly desired my Lord Protector to appoint some of his ships to
    meet me at Hamburg as soon as they can, for my transportation from
    thence to England. And I humbly entreat your favour to put his
    Highness in mind of it, and that you will take care that the orders
    may be had, and the ships to come as soon as may be to the Elbe, to
    Hamburg, where I shall stay for them, or till I receive his
    Highness's further commands; and I choose this way as the shortest,
    and where I shall meet with any despatches that may come from
    England. I presume you will be troubled with an importunate suitor
    for hastening my return.

    "I received your letters of the 17th March, and the order of the
    Council concerning the Swedish ship, for which I return my humble
    thanks. The Queen, and the Chancellor and others here, were much
    satisfied with it. The Chancellor and his son have been very civil
    to me, and lately furthering my despatch. I hope the same goodness
    of God which hath hitherto brought me through this great business
    will give me a safe return to my dear country and friends, where I
    may have opportunity with thankfulness to acknowledge your constant
    favour and kindness to

                  "Your affectionate friend to serve you,
                                                           "B. W.
    "Upsal, April 7th, 1654."

April 8, 1654.

[SN: A masque at Court.]

The master of the ceremonies came to Whitelocke from the Queen, to desire his company this
evening at a masque; and they had this discourse:--

Whitelocke. Present my thanks to her Majesty, and tell her I will wait upon her.

[SN: Precedence claimed by Denmark.]

Mast. Cer. What would your Excellence expect in matter of precedence, as in case you should
meet with any other ambassador at the masque?

Wh. I shall expect that which belongs to me as Ambassador from the Commonwealth of England,
Scotland, and Ireland; and I know no other ambassador now in this Court besides myself, except
the Ambassador of the King of Denmark, who, I suppose, hath no thoughts of precedence before
the English Ambassador, who is resolved not to give it him if he should expect it.

Mast. Cer. Perhaps it may be insisted on, that he of Denmark is an ambassador of an anointed
king, and you are only ambassador to the Protector--a new name, and not sacré.

Wh. Whosoever shall insist on that distinction will be mistaken, and I understand no difference
of power between king and protector, or anointed or not anointed; and ambassadors are the same
public ministers to a protector or commonwealth as to a prince or sultan.

Mast. Cer. There hath always been a difference observed between the public ministers of kings
and of commonwealths, or princes of inferior titles.

Wh. The title of Protector, as to a sovereign title, hath not yet been determined in the world
as to superiority or inferiority to other titles; but I am sure that the nation of England
hath ever been determined superior to that of Denmark. I represent the nations of England,
Scotland, and Ireland, and the Protector, who is chief of them; and the honour of these nations
ought to be in the same consideration now as it hath been formerly, and I must not suffer any
diminution of that honour by my person to please any whatsoever.

Mast. Cer. I shall propose an expedient to you, that you may take your places as you come:
he who comes first, the first place, and he who comes last, the lower place.

Wh. I shall hardly take a place below the Danish Ambassador, though I come into the room after him.

Mast. Cer. But when you come into the room and find the Danish Ambassador set, you cannot help
it, though he have the upper place.

Wh. I shall endeavour to help it, rather than sit below the Danish Ambassador.

Mast. Cer. I presume you will not use force in the Queen's presence.

Wh. Master, it is impossible for me, if it were in the presence of all the queens and kings
in Christendom, to forbear to use any means to hinder the dishonour of my nation in my person.

Mast. Cer. I believe the Danish Ambassador would not be so high as you are.

Wh. There is no reason why he should: he knows his nation never pretended to have the precedence
of England, and you, being master of the ceremonies, cannot be ignorant of it.

Mast. Cer. I confess that your nation always had the precedence of Denmark when you were under
a king.

Wh. I should never give it from them though they were under a constable.

Mast. Cer. If you insist upon it, the Danish Ambassador must be uninvited again, for I perceive
that you two must not meet.

Wh. I suppose the gentleman would not expect precedence of me.

Mast. Cer. I can assure you he doth.

Wh. I can assure you he shall never have it, if I can help it. But I pray, Master, tell me
whether her Majesty takes notice of this question of precedence, or did she wish to confer
with me about it?

Mast. Cer. The Queen commanded me to speak with you about it, hoping that the question might
be so composed that she might have the company of you both at her entertainment.

Wh. I shall stay at home rather than interrupt her Majesty's pleasures, which I should do by
meeting the Danish Ambassador, to whom I shall not give precedence, unless he be stronger than I.

Mast. Cer. The Queen makes this masque chiefly for your Excellence's entertainment, therefore
you must not be absent, but rather the Danish Ambassador must be uninvited; and I shall presently
go about it.

[SN: Order on the Swedish ships.]

Whitelocke returned a visit to Grave Eric, and showed him the Order of the Council touching
the Swedish ships, much in favour of them, and which seemed very pleasing to the Grave; but
he also showed to Whitelocke several letters which he had received from masters of Swedish
ships, of new complaints of taking of their ships; and he desired that the Order showed him
by Whitelocke might be extended to those whose ships had been since taken; which Whitelocke
promised to endeavour, and said that he should be in a better capacity to serve him, and to
procure discharges for their ships and goods, when he should be himself in England; and therefore
desired that, by his despatch, they would hasten him thither, which the Grave promised to do.
At his going away, Grave Eric invited Whitelocke to dine with him on Monday next, and to come
as a particular friend and brother, and not by a formal invitation as an ambassador. Whitelocke
liked the freedom, and promised to wait on him; and was the more willing to come, that he might
see the fashion of their entertainments, this being the first invitation that was made to him
by any person in this country.

General Grave Wirtenberg visited Whitelocke. He is a Finlander by birth, of an ancient family,
who had applied himself wholly to the military profession, wherein he became so eminent, and
had done so great service for this Crown, that he was had in great esteem, especially with
the soldiery. He was a Ricks-Senator, and one of the College of War, and at present had the
charge of General of the Ordnance, which is of higher account here than in England, being next
in command to the Generalissimo, and over the soldiery which belong not to the train, and is
often employed as a general. This gentleman seemed worthy of his honour; he was of a low stature,
somewhat corpulent, of a good mien, and plain behaviour, more in the military than courtly
way. His discourse declared his reason and judgement to be very good, and his mention of anything
relating to himself was full of modesty. He took great notice of the English navy and soldiery,
and of the people's inclinations and violent desires of liberty. He spake only Swedish and
High Dutch, which caused Whitelocke to make use of an interpreter, his kinsman Andrew Potley.

[SN: The masque.]

In the evening, according to the invitation from the Queen, Whitelocke went to Court to the
masque, where he did not find the Danish Ambassador. But some of the Court took notice of the
discourse which had been between the master of the ceremonies and Whitelocke touching precedence,
and they all approved Whitelocke's resolution, and told him that the Queen highly commended
him for it, and said that he was a stout and faithful servant to the Protector and to his nation,
and that she should love him the better for it; nor was the contest the less pleasing because
with the Dane in Sweden.

From eight o'clock at night till two the next morning they were at the masque, which was in
the usual room fitted for the solemnity, in which the Queen herself was an actor. The floor
where they danced was covered with tapestry and hung about with red velvet, but most adorned
by the presence of a great number of ladies richly dressed and beautified both by nature and
habit, attending on their mistress; and there were also many senators, officers, courtiers,
and nobility,--a very great presence of spectators. The music was excellent, especially the
violins, which were many, and rare musicians and fittest for that purpose. The Queen herself
danced very well at two entries: in the first she represented a Moorish lady, in the second
a citizen's wife; in both the properties were exactly fitted, and in all the rest of the actors
and dancers.

There were no speeches nor songs; men acting men's parts, and women the women's, with variety
of representations and dances. The whole design was to show the vanity and folly of all professions
and worldly things, lively represented by the exact properties and mute actions, genteelly,
without the least offence or scandal.

It held two hours; and after the dances the Queen caused her chair to be brought near to Whitelocke,
where she sat down and discoursed with him of the masque. He (according to his judgement) commended
it and the inoffensiveness of it, and rare properties fitted to every representation, with
the excellent performance of their parts by all, especially by the Moorish lady and citizen's
wife; at which the Queen smiled, and said she was glad he liked it. He replied, that any of
his countrymen might have been present at it without any offence, and he thanked her Majesty
for the honour she gave him to be present at it. The Queen said she perceived that Whitelocke
understood what belonged to masques and the most curious part of them, the properties,--with
much like discourse; after which she retired to her chamber, and Whitelocke to his lodging.

April 9, 1654.

Monsieur Bloome came to dine with Whitelocke, and to put him in mind of Grave Eric's request{5}
to him to dine with him the next day. He also sent to invite Whitelocke's two sons and Colonel
Potley.

[SN: The Spanish Envoy departs with rich presents.]

In the afternoon Piementelle came to take his leave of Whitelocke, and said he intended to
begin his journey the next morning. Whitelocke offered himself or his coaches and servants,
to attend him out of town; but he said it was not the custom when a public minister departed
from a place to use any ceremony, but to leave him to the liberty of ordering and taking his
journey, but thanked Whitelocke for his favour.

Though it were the Lord's Day, yet Piementelle fell into discourse of the last night's masque,
which he could not be present at publicly as formerly, because he had taken his leave of the
Queen and Senators, yet, being desirous to see it, was admitted into the tiring-room; and he
told Whitelocke that after the Queen had acted the Moorish lady and retired into that room
to put off her disguise, Piementelle being there, she gave him her visor; in the mouth whereof
was a diamond ring of great price, which shined and glistered gloriously by the torch and candle
light as the Queen danced; this she bade Piementelle to keep till she called for it. Piementelle
told her he wondered she would trust a jewel of that value in the hands of a soldier; she said
she would bear the adventure of it. And when the masque was ended, Piementelle offered the
ring again to the Queen, who told him that he had not kept it according to her commands, which
were till she called for it, which she had not yet done, nor intended as long as she lived,
but that he should keep it as a memorial of her favour. The Spaniard had cause to rest satisfied
with the Queen's answer and her real and bountiful compliment, the ring being worth ten thousand
crowns, which he brought away with him, besides many other jewels and presents from the Queen
of great value, not publicly known. He took leave of Whitelocke and of his sons, Colonel Potley,
and the gentlemen, with great civility.

April 10, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke dines with Grave Eric Oxenstiern.]

Between eleven and twelve o'clock, the usual dining-time here, Whitelocke, with his sons and
Potley, attended only by two gentlemen, one page, and two lacqueys, went to Grave Eric's lodging
to dinner. His rooms were not stately nor richly furnished, but such as could be had in that
place. The outer room for servants was like a little hall; within that was a larger room, narrow
and long, where they dined; within that was a smaller room hung with tapestry, used for a withdrawing-room:
all below stairs, which is not usual in these parts.

Grave Eric met Whitelocke at the door of the lodging; in the dining-room was his father the
Chancellor, and divers friends with him. The father and son went in with Whitelocke to the
withdrawing-room, where, after a quarter of an hour's discourse, they were called to dinner,
the meat being on the table; then a huge massy basin and ewer of silver gilt was brought for
them to wash--some of the good booties met with in Germany. After washing, one of the pages
(after their manner) said grace in Swedish.

The table was long and narrow; in the middle of it, on the further side, under a canopy of
velvet, were set two great chairs: Whitelocke sat in the right-hand chair, and Woolfeldt in
the other, on his left-hand. On the other side of the table, over against these, were set two
other like great chairs; in the right-hand chair sat the Ricks-Droitset, and in the left-hand
chair the Chancellor. By Whitelocke sat Grave Gabriel Oxenstiern and Senator Vanderlin in lesser
chairs, and by Woolfeldt sat Whitelocke's sons and Potley. On the other side, in lesser chairs,
by the Droitset, sat the Senators Beilke and Bundt the younger; by the Chancellor sat Senator
Bundt the elder and Baron Douglas; at the upper end of the table sat Grave Eric, and at the
lower end stood the carver. The dishes were all silver, not great, but many, set one upon another,
and filled with the best meat and most variety that the country did afford; and indeed the
entertainment was very noble--they had four several courses of their best meat, and fish and
fowl, dressed after the French mode.

They had excellent Rhenish wine, and indifferent good sack and claret; their beer very thick
and strong, after the manner of the country. When the four courses were done, they took off
the meat and tablecloth, and under it was another clean cloth; then they brought clean napkins
and plates to every one, and set a full banquet on the table, and, as part thereof, tobacco
and pipes, which they set before Whitelocke as a special respect to him, and he and two or
three more of the company took of it as they sat at table; and they so civilly complied with
Whitelocke as not to observe their own customs, but abstaining from healths or any excess.

They all sat bare at the table, according to their usage, chiefly (though no occasion were
for it at this time) to avoid the trouble of often putting off and on their hats and caps in
healths. They were full of good discourse, more cheerful than serious. Most at the table spake
or understood somewhat of English, for which reason they were chosen to accompany Whitelocke
here, as a compliment to his nation; they discoursed also in several other languages, as Swedish,
High Dutch, French, and Latin.

After dinner, which was very long, they sat yet longer at the table, Whitelocke expecting when
they would rise; till Douglas informed him, that he being the guest, and an ambassador, they
used it as a respect to him, that none of the company would offer to rise till he first arose
from the table. As soon as this was known to Whitelocke, he presently rose and the rest with
him, and the Chancellor and he retired into the withdrawing-room; where, after compliments
and thanks for his noble treatment (which it was said the father made, though put out in the
son's name, and was full of respect and magnificence), Whitelocke thought fit to show to the
Chancellor his powers to treat, and they had conference to this effect.

[SN: Whitelocke exchanges his full powers.]

Whitelocke. Father, if you please to peruse this writing, you will be satisfied that the Protector,
since the late change of Government in England, hath thought me worthy to be trusted and furnished
with sufficient power as to this treaty.

Chancellor. My dear son, this is very full, and a large testimony of the good opinion your
master hath of you. All your powers and the originals of your commissions (according to custom)
are to be left with us, to be registered in our Chancery.

Wh. I suppose you will also deliver to me the originals of your powers, to be enrolled (according
to the English custom also) in our Chancery.

Chan. That shall be done.

Wh. The like shall be done on my part; and the Protector will be ready to do whatever shall
be judged further necessary for the ratifying of this business.

Chan. It will be requisite that you let me have in Latin your instructions from the Protector.

Wh. I shall cause it to be done, except such part of them as are secret.

Chan. That which is to be reserved in secresy I desire not to see; there will be sufficient
besides to show your powers.

Wh. They will fully appear.

Chan. I should counsel you, before your departure out of this kingdom, to make a visit to the
Prince of Sweden; he will take it in good part, and it will testify a respect of the Protector
to him, and render the alliance the more firm.

Wh. It is my purpose to visit the Prince; not that I am in doubt of the validity of the treaty
made with the Queen, unless the Prince approve of it, but, as you advise, to show the respect
of the Protector to his Kingly Highness, and to acquit myself of a due civility.

Chan. It will be fit for you to do it; and I shall advise you, at your return home, to put
the Protector in mind of some particulars which, in my judgement, require his special care.

Wh. I shall faithfully do it, and I know they will be received with much the more regard coming
from you: I pray do me the favour to let me know them.

[SN: Oxenstiern's advice to Cromwell.]

Chan. I would counsel the Protector to take heed of those dangerous opinions in matters of
religion which daily increase among you, and, if not prevented and curbed, will cause new troubles,
they never resting till themselves may domineer in chief.

Wh. Will not the best way to curb them be to slight them, and so they will fall of themselves?

Chan. I doubt they have taken too much root to fall so easily; but if they be not countenanced
with preferments, they will the sooner wither and decay.

Wh. That will surely lessen them.

Chan. The Protector must also be careful to provide money and employment for his soldiers,
else he will hardly keep them in order.

Wh. That is very requisite; and for money there is good provision already made.

Chan. He must likewise be watchful of the King's party, who will be busy at work, especially
upon the new change.

Wh. The care thereof is the life of our affairs, and his Highness is most vigilant.

Chan. It behoves him to be so, for they that could not vanquish him by arms will endeavour
to do it by craft and treachery of your own party, which you must look to.

Wh. He hath good intelligence of their plots.

Chan. It will also be prudence in him to let the people see that he intends not to rule them
with an iron sceptre, nor to govern them by an army, but to give them such a liberty and enjoyment
of the benefit of their laws that the continuance of his government may become their interest,
and that they may have no cause to desire a change; else, though they must bear the yoke for
a time, yet as soon as they meet with an opportunity they will shake it off again.

Wh. This is counsel proper to come from such a mind and judgement as yours is, and I shall
not fail to report it to his Highness; and your Excellence hath rightly stated the disposition
of my countrymen, who love peace and liberty, and will hardly brook slavery longer than they
are forced to it by necessity; and the best way to govern them is to let them enjoy their laws
and rights, which will rule them better than an iron sceptre.

Chan. It is the disposition of all generous and free people, as the English are, whom I truly
respect, and him that is their head, that gallant person the Protector.

They had much other discourse; and after being together till six o'clock, the father and son,
and the Chancellor and Whitelocke, called one another, and all the company parted.

April 11, 1654.

[SN: The Queen proposes a secret article.]

The Chancellor had promised to procure Whitelocke his despatch in a few days. He sent Canterstein
to communicate to him the articles drawn in form, with the amendments, to see if there were
any mistake in them. Whitelocke and the secretary perused them together, and agreed on all
except two or three points, in which was some small difference; and Canterstein promised to
hasten the engrossing of them.

Many strangers dining with Whitelocke made him the later in his visit to the Queen, to take
his leave of her Majesty before her intended journey to see her mother. She promised Whitelocke
that during her absence she would leave order with the Chancellor and his son to conclude the
treaty, and at her return she would do what belonged to her for the speedy despatch of Whitelocke,
to his contentment. She promised also to give order to her Chancellor about the business of
Guinea, whereof they had much discourse.

She was pleased to propound to Whitelocke a secret article to be between her and the Protector,
and not to be in the treaty between her Commissioners and Whitelocke, nor to be known to any
of them. She said, that if it might be done, she should take it in very good part; but if Whitelocke
thought it not likely to be done, then she would think no more of it. She said the substance
of what she desired was that it might be agreed, by a particular article between the Protector
and her, that in case those here should not perform what they promised to her upon her resignation
of the government, that then it should be in the power of the Protector to break the treaty
now made, and not to be bound by it.

Whitelocke was much troubled at this proposal, and upon a great difficulty in it--that if he
should deny it, the Queen might be distasted and break off from his treaty; and to consent
to it he had no commission, nor held it reasonable; but he told the Queen that it was a matter
of great weight, deserving her Majesty's serious thoughts what to do in it. He said he had
no instructions upon any such article as this, nor could agree to it; but if her Majesty pleased
to have such an article drawn up, and to sign it herself and send it to the Protector, he promised
to use his best interest to persuade his Highness to a consent thereunto, and to sign it at
Whitelocke's return to England, and so to return it to her Majesty.

She said that Woolfeldt should confer with Whitelocke about the drawing up of such an article,
whom she would trust in it, but not any of the Swedes, because it might concern them, and occasion
prejudice to them. Whitelocke agreed that Woolfeldt was a fit person to be trusted in this
business, and one with whom he should willingly confer about any service for her Majesty; that
he believed something might be done herein to the Queen's advantage, but whether in this way
of a secret article, and as part of the treaty, he doubted, lest thereby offence might be given,
and the treaty thereby, as to both parts, be weakened. The Queen replied that it would keep
those here in some fear lest if they should break with her, that then the Protector would not
keep the treaty with them.

Whitelocke thought it best to be at some reserve in this article of secresy, not wholly to
dissuade the Queen from it, lest she might be distasted. He saw advantage to the Protector
to have it put into his power to break the treaty upon this occasion; but he doubted the honour
and clearness of it, and therefore he judged it best to say the less at this time. Only he
observed what a condition the Queen had brought her affairs unto when she thought not fit to
trust any of her countrymen in this business; and before her resignation she distrusted the
performance of the conditions of it towards herself, and therefore would have this secret article
as a bridle to them. But as she distrusted her own party, so she testified great confidence
in the Protector and in Whitelocke, to whom she propounded this secret article of so much concernment
to her.

Whitelocke persuaded her Majesty to appoint faithful persons to order her revenue for her,
and not to stay long here after her resignation, because she would then find a great difference
in the carriage of persons to her. She said she had taken care about her revenue as he had
advised her, and that she would be gone out of Sweden presently after her resignation; that
she expected the alteration of men's carriages towards her after it, but it would not trouble
her; that the world was of such a condition, that nothing of respect was to be looked for but
where advantage was hoped for by it. She never esteemed the fawnings of men for their own ends,
but her own private contentment and satisfaction.

Whitelocke sent his son James and his secretary (Earle) to Canterstein with a copy of the form
which Whitelocke intended to follow in the instrument intended to be delivered by him, where
he put the Protector's name first, and some other small variations, as usage required; wherewith
Canterstein promised to acquaint the Chancellor and to return an answer.

Whitelocke employed his son for his experience to be gained in these affairs.

April 12, 1654.

[SN: Woolfeldt opposes the secret article.]

Mr. Woolfeldt having done Whitelocke the favour to dine with him, they retired and discoursed
privately to this effect:--

Woolfeldt. The Queen was pleased the last night to send for me, and to communicate to me the
matter of a secret article which, she said, she had before imparted to you.

Whitelocke. What is your opinion of such an article?

Woolf. Truly, I dissuaded her from it, as not convenient, in my poor opinion, for either party.

Wh. I know your judgement is grounded upon solid reason.

Woolf. My reasons are, because this article is to be kept secret, and to be added as a part
of the treaty by her Majesty without the knowledge of those here, which, when it shall come
to be known, will give them the more cause of objection and hatred against her for it, and
expose her to more inconveniences than it can bring advantage to her; and therefore I thought
it better for her Majesty to forbear it.

Wh. Your reasons were the true ones: was her Majesty convinced by them?

Woolf. She seemed to make more doubt of it than at first, but told me that you were not much
against it, and desired to confer with me about it while she was out of town, and she wished
me to prepare something against her return.

Wh. As I told her Majesty, I can consent to nothing in this point, having no instructions in
any matter of this nature, as you will easily believe; but if her Majesty shall think fit to
have anything drawn up by way of a secret article, all that I can do will be to present it
to the Protector at my return home, and I know he will be as ready as any person to show respect
to the Queen; but what he will do as to a consent in this particular I cannot tell, but am
doubtful lest it may be apprehended as a weakening of the treaty and alliance.

Woolf. That is a great and true objection against it; and, in my opinion, it would be better
for the Queen to write a letter to the Protector in general compliment, and in it to desire
him to be a friend to her, and to give her his assistance upon any occasion that may fall out
concerning her; and this letter may be sent by you, and delivered by your hand to the Protector,
when you may acquaint him with anything further or more particularly relating to her Majesty.

Wh. I think this will be much the better way; and if such a letter be sent by me, I hope I
shall be able to procure such an answer, or, upon any occasion, such a return as will be to
the contentment of her Majesty. But in case the Queen should sign such an article, and then
the Protector should not approve it, it would distaste the Queen and her friends, and she would
be censured to have done too low an act in it.

Woolf. I had yesterday a long discourse with the Chancellor about your affairs of England,
and particularly of your fleet now at sea--what should be the design of having so strong a
fleet at sea, the sea-war between you and your enemies being reported at an end, and peace
concluded; and whether your design might be for France or Spain or Portugal.

Wh. Or for the defence of England.

Woolf. He was much amused about it.

Wh. I hope that was not lessened by you.

Woolf. No indeed; I endeavoured to amuse him more, and told him, that for France, England did
not care to have it; it would be but a charge and no benefit to them, and embroil them in a
long chargeable war.

Wh. England hath had experience thereof formerly when they were masters of France, and many
of us think our own country as good as France.

Woolf. I am of that opinion; and I told him there was as little probability for any design
against Spain because of its distance, and little advantage to England by a war with them.

Wh. I hope you commended a kingdom called Denmark?

Woolf. I first told him that for Portugal or the Indies the like objections were against any
design for them; but as for Denmark, I told him that England had just cause to make war upon
that king, and that it would be no hard business to gain upon him; and the advantage of traffic
made me think that to be the most probable design of any other to be intended by this great
fleet of England, wherein it is most likely for you to gain advantage to your Commonwealth
and to give offence to none, having a just cause of quarrel against him.

Wh. Your brother the King of Denmark hath given cause indeed to be visited.

Woolf. I shall inform you of one thing, of which you may now make advantage. Your King James
made a treaty with the last King of Denmark concerning the Isles of the Orcades, which were
claimed by the Dane as part of their territories; and after the death of King James and our
last King, that then, upon payment of £13,000 by the Dane, he should have the Orcades again.
Now both these kings being dead, according to that treaty it is in the liberty of the King
of Denmark to redeem those islands; and it would be good for you, in the treaty with that Crown,
who would be included in your treaty with the Hollanders, to have a clause for the present
King of Denmark to quit his pretences to the Orcades upon the treaty with King James.

Wh. This is a very material thing, and I shall not fail to do somewhat in it, if I can return
to England time enough; and I thank you for putting me in mind of it.

[SN: Discussion on the Guinea settlements.]

Grave Eric came to Whitelocke, who had much discourse with him touching Guinea, and the injuries
done by the Swedes to the English there.

Grave Eric. One of the principal persons of the Swedish plantation there is now in this country,
and complains of injuries done by the English to the Swedes there. I think it may be fit to
hear both the complaints of the one and of the other part, and thereupon to come to some agreement
upon the whole matter.

Whitelocke. I have here many examinations taken upon oath concerning this matter.

Gr. Eric. Those complaints ought to be determined by the King of that country, who sold the
lands to the planters, and can resolve all differences about that matter.

Wh. I believe that the complaints of this nature are properly to be made to the Queen, whose
subjects are concerned in them, and they are always under her rule.

Gr. Eric. The Queen will make no difficulty to do justice in this case, and I hope that the
Protector will do the like.

Wh. You need not at all to doubt it.

Gr. Eric. This messenger, now come to me, hath brought me letters from the Queen, in which
there is mention of this business.

Wh. Why may not an article touching Guinea be inserted with the rest?

Gr. Eric. That will not be convenient, because the articles are entirely concluded and engrossed
on our part; and this of Guinea is but a particular business, which till now came not under
consideration, nor hath been examined, and it will be better to have an article by itself upon
this subject.

Wh. I am satisfied with your reason, and think this way will be no disadvantage to the merchants
of either nation. I desire an addition to the article touching passports, that none shall do
anything contrary to the letters of passport.

Gr. Eric. I cannot consent to that, for it will render the whole article fruitless in both
parts; and there is another article, that in case any shall act anything in prejudice of the
treaty, he shall be punished.

In consideration of this article, and in regard that the agreement touching the form of passports
was remitted to something to be done therein afterwards, and he found Eric stiff against any
alteration, Whitelocke did not think it material to insist further upon it. As to that which
Whitelocke desired to the last article of ratification, that the words "vel successoribus suis"
might be omitted, Eric said he would consent thereunto if he found it material, and desired
the business might be finished; and he desired Whitelocke to excuse a little small delay at
present by his absence for a few days, he being necessitated to go out of town tomorrow, but
at his return all should be concluded; and as soon as the Queen came back, the whole business
should be finished, which had been done before, but by reason of the Queen's unexpected journey.

April 13, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke confers with the Chancellor, and invites him to dinner.]

In the morning the Chancellor came to Whitelocke and staid with him near three hours. They
had much debate touching Guinea, to the like effect as before with his son; they had also debate
about the amendments which Whitelocke had desired might be inserted in the articles, chiefly
that touching passports, to which the Chancellor would by no means agree. He likewise said
to Whitelocke:--

Chancellor. The Queen caused the articles to be copied out, to the end (as I believe) to communicate
them to the Prince, which will be for the greater validity of the treaty and alliance.

Whitelocke. I am glad her Majesty is pleased to take the advice of the Prince in this business,
and am willing to promise myself that nothing is contained in the articles which he will not
approve.

Chan. I believe the same.

Wh. This might be the occasion that my business was not finished before her Majesty's going
out of town.

Chan. I myself am also going into the country, and come now to take my leave of you.

Wh. I hope you will return before her Majesty.

Chan. I purpose to stay abroad but four or five days; and I find that frequent exercise and
change of air tendeth very much to the improving of my health.

Wh. I do heartily wish your health, and hope that the Queen and you will shortly be in town
again, and that then my business will be finished.

Chan. There is no doubt but that your business will be despatched within a very few days after
the Queen's return.

They had much other discourse touching the affairs of England, in which the Chancellor testified
much respect to England and to the Protector.

Whitelocke invited the Chancellor to dinner to his house, but he excused himself, alleging
that his age and infirmities would not permit him to take a meal out of his own house, or at
the houses of some of his children, where he might enjoy the same liberty as at his own house.
Whitelocke told him that he should have the same liberty at his house, who was one of his sons,
as he could take at the houses of any other of his children; but the Chancellor earnestly desired
to be excused, and Whitelocke thought not fit further to importune him, but desired him to
hasten his return hither, which he promised to do.

Whitelocke received his letters from England, and in that from Thurloe he writes:--

[SN: Letters from Thurloe.]

    "There hath been consideration taken of your return home, but the
    issue of the treaty with the Dutch not being yet known, his
    Highness's resolutions as to your return are deferred until the
    next; the difficulty of that business lies in the article relating
    to the Danes, etc. All things else remain as they did by my last, so
    that your Excellence will be saved this week the labour of reading
    my long letter. This day we have a fast for the great drought.

    "My Lady was here with me to hasten your return, wherein I should be
    glad to be instrumental. I pray God preserve your Excellence, and
    bless the affairs under your hand. I am,

                  "Your Excellence's humble servant,
                                                    "JO. THURLOE.
    "March 24th, 1653.

    "I saw a letter to his Highness from Upsal, wherein some expressions
    were used as if your Excellence were like to be removed from the
    Seal. His Highness commanded me to assure you that there are no such
    intentions, but much the contrary, whereof your Excellence will have
    real demonstrations upon all occasions."

April 14, 1654.

[SN: Passport given to a Swedish ship.]

Grave Eric desired Whitelocke to give a passport to a Swedish ship bound from Stockholm to
Portugal. The Chancellor requested the same, and both father and son engaged to Whitelocke
that there was nothing aboard the vessel, nor any design in her voyage, against England; that
she was freighted for Portugal only, and that they should esteem the favour as done to themselves,
because they had a share in the goods on board this ship. Whitelocke, though he were hardly
persuaded to give his passports to Swedish ships or to any other, yet considering the time
when this was desired, and the persons desiring it, he thought not fit to deny it, but gave
it in this form.[130]

Whitelocke gave an account in his letters this day to Thurloe of all passages of moment since
his last, and wrote further:--

[SN: Letters to Thurloe.]

    "My letters, I confess, have been tedious heretofore, but I ask your
    pardon, and do hope that my business is now at such a period that I
    shall not have occasion to trouble you with the like.

    "There is little to do here at this time; almost all the great lords
    and courtiers are gone out of town, so that here is a lamentable
    silent place. I shall be heartily glad to receive my Lord's order to
    authorize my return; but my business being now ended, I presume I
    may expect his pleasure at any other place. I purpose to visit the
    Queen-mother and the Prince of Sweden, because other ambassadors
    have done it, and I have been particularly invited to it. I think it
    will be a respect from my Lord Protector which they will take very
    kindly, and may be some strength to the alliance, and is not the
    less requisite for me, because our enemies report that none but
    mechanics are of our party; but since our being here the Swedes
    acknowledge the contrary.

    "I hope within two or three weeks to be at sea, and that my God, who
    hath hitherto been so good to me, will give me a safe return to my
    Lord and to my native country, to whom I wish all prosperity.

                  "Your affectionate friend to serve you,
                                                           "B. W.
    "Upsal, 14th April, 1654.

    "I hope you will pardon the importunity of my wife's solicitation,
    being for my return. I have been informed this week that some
    Holland ships are loading here with ordnance and other provisions of
    war. I hope his Highness hath been pleased to give order for two or
    three ships to be at Hamburg for my transportation into England, and
    therein I entreat your favour.

                                                           "B. W."

In this letter Whitelocke also gave advice, what he had been informed touching the treaty between
King James and the last King of Denmark concerning the Orcades, with his humble opinion what
was fit to be done in that business, upon the comprehension of the Dane in the Dutch treaty,
yet nothing was done therein; however, Whitelocke was satisfied in the acquittal of himself
to have done his duty.

Upon the earnest request of some Scots and English gentlemen on the behalf of Colonel Halsall,
now in this town, Whitelocke gave him this pass.[131]

April 15, 1654.

[SN: Excursion with the French Resident.]

The Resident of France having desired Whitelocke that when he went abroad to take the air he
would give him leave to accompany him, Whitelocke sent to him, this fair day inviting and leisure
not hindering it. They went together in Whitelocke's coach to a wood, about an English mile
from Upsal, full of pines, fir-trees, and juniper, and very fair and pleasant walks in it.
The beauty of the day and place had also invited thither at this time the Ambassador of Denmark
and the Holland Resident, who, perceiving Whitelocke's coaches and company, crossed out of
the way where they were, and betook themselves to another walk; but Whitelocke kept on in his,
and with the French Resident had much general discourse, but little of matters of state, because
they could not trust one the other; yet Whitelocke learnt from him the condition of several
persons in principal credit in the Court of France, and the way of their management of affairs.
This gentleman was very civil and courteous and good company, desiring the conversation of
Whitelocke, which he afforded him both going abroad and in his house, to which the Resident
did him the favour to be no stranger.

Whitelocke told him he purposed to go by Nordköping, and by the way to visit the Queen-mother
and the Prince, and to have his ship meet him there. The Resident said the ship could not easily
come to Nordköping, being no good harbour; but his best way would be to go from thence to Calmar,
and his ship to meet him there, the haven being open and the ship may come near the town; and
that Nordköping was the midway between Stockholm and Calmar, and the ship might be as soon
at Calmar as at Nordköping; that the passage to Lübeck was much easier from Calmar than from
Nordköping, and with a good wind might be made from Calmar in two days. But hereof Whitelocke
intended to have the advice of some Swedes.

April 16, 1654.

[SN: Great wealth of the Oxenstiern family.]

Monsieur Bloome this Lord's Day dined with Whitelocke, and told him that the Chancellor had
left him in town to keep Whitelocke company in the absence of the Chancellor, and to assure
him that the Chancellor would return again in a very few days. Whitelocke made much of him,
and had good informations from him. He said that Grave John Oxenstiern, the Chancellor's eldest
son, had at that time, whilst his father was alive, above £20,000 sterling of yearly revenue,
which he had from his father and by his wife, an inheritrix; and that Grave Eric, the second
son, had in his father's lifetime near £10,000 sterling of yearly revenue, besides what both
of them might expect from their father: and therefore both father and sons might, as they did,
live in great state and with attendance of much port and ceremony.

Grave Leonhough bestowed a visit on Whitelocke. He is a senator and one of the College of War,
a person of great esteem and good parts; his conversation was full of civility; his discourse
(in French) was rational, and for the most part upon matter of war, history, and the mathematics.
In his company was an officer, his brother-in-law, who had served the King of Portugal in his
late wars, and was a civil person, and seemed a gallant man. This Grave had been long bred
up in the wars, and was now a Major-General; and his discourse showed him to be knowing and
modest. He demanded of Whitelocke many questions touching the affairs of England, and particularly
of the late civil dissensions there, and had a full account thereof from Whitelocke, by which
he seemed to receive much satisfaction, and acknowledged that he had not heard the truth before,
and that this relation justified the proceedings of the Parliament. He spake nothing to Whitelocke
touching his business of the treaty, nor did Whitelocke mention it to this Grave, whom he never
saw before, and because it was a day for other duties.

April 17, 1654.

[SN: A serenade to Whitelocke.]

Upsal being very empty, by the absence of the Queen and all the great Lords, who were retired
to their country-houses, but most of them to Stockholm, it was given out that her Majesty would
not return to this place, but remain at Stockholm, and that the General Assembly should be
held there; which was not believed by Whitelocke, because the Queen had assured him that she
would return to Upsal within eight or ten days, and she never brake her word with him.

Her absence, and the leisure which they had thereby, gave opportunity to some of her musicians
(Italians and Germans) to pass a compliment on Whitelocke, to come to his house, and with great
ceremony to entertain him with their vocal and instrumental music, which was excellent good;
and they played many lessons of English composition, which the gentlemen who were musical of
Whitelocke's family brought forth unto them.

April 18, 1654.

[SN: The Swedish army.]

Whitelocke returned a visit to the Grave Leonhough, whose lodgings were but mean, such as the
town would afford, but his treatment was with great civility. Amongst other discourse he inquired
touching the discipline of war and ordering the soldiery in England, who, he said, must be
well paid, or else they could not be kept in good order. Whitelocke acknowledged that to be
very true, and said that in England special care was taken for the constant and due pay of
the armies much beyond other countries, by which means they were kept in the best and strictest
discipline of any armies in the world; that violence or plunder, contrary to the articles of
war, was severely punished.

The Grave acquainted Whitelocke that he was to go out of town the next day to a general muster,
about four leagues from hence, within the province where he had the government; which occasioned
Whitelocke to inquire of him, and to be informed that this was the standing militia of the
country, and that the manner of it was thus:--

The whole militia of Sweden in the country, besides the standing forces of their armies in
service, doth consist of 50,000 horse and foot, whereof 12,000 horse and 38,000 foot in the
several provinces are constantly in a readiness to be drawn forth in fourteen days' time. In
Sweden are about 5000 horse and 20,000 foot, and in Finland and the other provinces about 8000
horse and 20,000 foot: in all, above 50,000. That the Crown is not at any charge for the pay
of these militia forces, unless they are drawn forth into actual service, and then they are
paid as their other army forces are, which is not very much or constant; but when they are
in an enemy's country they live upon the country, and take contribution, if not plunder; and
somewhat is allowed them by the Crown, as so much in money (which is a very small proportion)
and such a weekly quantity of bread, butter, and cheese for every foot-soldier, and a like
proportion for the horsemen; whose charge may be guessed at by that of their officers, of whom
it was affirmed that the allowance to a captain of horse was his stove and his stable, and
twenty rix-dollars a year. His stove they call his fire, candle, and entertainment for himself;
his stable, that is horse-meat, and room, and shoeing; and for himself from the Crown (besides
what he gets from the country) but twenty rix-dollars a year, with the like proportion for
other officers and soldiers.

The manner of maintaining their militia forces in the country was said to be this:--A horseman
was quartered in the house of a boor, or husbandman; if the man will work himself and his horse
with the boor, to help him in his husbandry, then the boor gives the man and his horse entertainment
freely, and hath their work for it, which is more worth than their meat, and the boor will
give the man perhaps some small sum of money besides. By this way the boor hath an advantage--the
work of a man and a horse for their meat only; and the horseman hath an advantage--his own
and his horse's meat, besides what the Crown allows him, and himself and horse kept in better
condition by it; and without his work, the boor is not compellable to find him but his lodging
only.

In like manner it is for the foot-soldier. He is quartered with a boor, and must work for the
boor, or have no diet from him; but they do work generally, and by that means the soldier is
kept out of idleness. The countryman hath a benefit by his work for his diet only, whereas
he must give diet and wages to a servant; and the soldier by his work hath his diet besides
what the State allows him, and so he and his landlord are both well pleased. But the Crown
hath the greatest advantage, which hereby saves the great pay which otherwise they must allow;
and yet these forces are constantly in a readiness when the occasions of the Crown require
their service.

The officers of these militia forces have no pay at all but when they are in actual service,
neither do they expect any pay, being gentlemen of quality and interest in the country: the
chief of whom, who are fit for it, are made colonels; the next to them lieutenant-colonels,
majors, captains, and inferior officers, according to their rank of the country gentlemen,
known and beloved among their neighbours, with whom their interest and power, increased by
their command, makes them the better followed and obeyed. When they write out any from the
militia to serve in the armies, these officers and the lords of the boors appoint them; and
if any offend, they are presently written out to send abroad into Russia, Poland, Germany,
and other parts, from whence they do not all return safe, but are kept in great awe and obedience.

This day here fell a great quantity of snow, and was in one night so hard frozen that it would
bear a cart; the English wondered at it, but not this country men, the like being here usual
at this time of the year and after.

The Countess of Brahe, wife of the Ricks-Droitset, sent a gentleman to Whitelocke to acquaint
him that there was a parcel of timber, cut and lying ready within four miles of Gothenburg,
which did belong to her former husband, and was cut for the building of a ship; but by reason
of her husband's death the ship was not built, and she offered the timber to Whitelocke at
a reasonable price. But he, finding that it had been cut four years, and lay far from the water-side,
made an excuse that it would be necessary to have it viewed, which his hastening away would
not now permit; but he returned thanks to the Countess for her respects in the offer of it.

April 19, 1654.

[SN: Preparations for the abdication.]

Monsieur Bloome and divers others, having dined with Whitelocke, acquainted him that the Chancellor
intended to return hither the next day after the Queen. Whitelocke said he hoped the Chancellor
would have been here before her Majesty; but this was an argument to confute the report that
the Queen would stay at Stockholm and hold the Ricksdag there. Another argument was, the Queen's
officers removing and altering some of the hangings in Whitelocke's house, being longer and
fitter for the rooms to be furnished in the castle for the Ricksdag than those which they put
up in their places in Whitelocke's lodging.

April 20, 1654.

[SN: Swedish mines.]

In pursuance of former discourse with Monsieur Bloome, and by the desire of Mr. Bushel in England
to Whitelocke to inquire into it, he received a paper in French, from a person here employed
about the mines, to inform him by what means this person might be treated with to be brought
into England for improving of our mines there.

[SN: Hawks.]

Whitelocke also, by desire of a worthy friend in England, furnished himself with a direction
how he might procure some hawks out of this country, and chiefly from the isle of Deulandt,
where the best hawks are; and he had gained much acquaintance with Grave Gabriel Oxenstiern,
Great Falconer and Master of the Queen's Hawks, who promised his furtherance of Whitelocke's
desires herein, and to assist and direct any servant whom he should send hither for that purpose.

[SN: Mrs. Penn.]

One Catharine Penn, an Englishwoman, the widow of an officer of the Queen's army, entreated
Whitelocke to present for her a sad petition to the Queen for some arrears due to her husband,
which matters Whitelocke was not forward to meddle with; but this being his countrywoman, and
of the ancient family of Penn in Buckinghamshire, to which he had an alliance, Whitelocke did
undertake to present her petition to the Queen. He undertook the like for a decayed English
merchant residing at Hamburg, who petitioned the Queen for moneys owing to him at Bremen, where
he could have no justice from the Governor, Vice-Chancellor, and others in authority; and this
he undertook to move to the Queen, upon the earnest request of Mr. Bradshaw, Resident for the
Protector at Hamburg, by his letters this day received.

He was also presented with a Latin epistle from one Jonas Olaii, begging for some charity,
and who, to be sure to go high enough, gave throughout his letter the style of "illustrissime
Comes and Celsitudo tua," for which his gift from Whitelocke was the less.

[SN: Trade with Muscovy.]

In this day's packet Whitelocke received letters from the Muscovia Company in England, signed
by the Governor and Consuls, in which they set forth the decay and loss of their trade in Muscovia
by supplantation of the Dutch, and the Great Duke's disfavour to them, which they hope may
be altered upon the late change of government in England; that they understand there is now
in this Court an Ambassador from the Great Duke to the Queen; and they desire Whitelocke, that
if this ambassador do visit him, or if he think fit to visit the Russian Ambassador, that he
would intimate this matter to him, which they hope may much further their purpose of sending
to the Great Duke for recovery of their trade.

By this post Whitelocke received these letters from the Secretary Thurloe:--

[SN: Despatch from Thurloe.]

    "For his Excellence my Lord Ambassador Whitelocke, at Upsal, in
    Sweden. These.

    "My Lord,

    "Your letters of the 24th of February arrived here five or six days
    later than usual, and this day's post is not yet arrived. The peace
    with the Dutch hath been in such an uncertain condition, that it was
    very hard to make a judgement concerning the issue of it. In the end
    of the last and beginning of this week it was more probable that the
    war should continue than otherwise; and your Excellence will see by
    the enclosed papers, which passed between the Commissioners of his
    Highness and the Ambassadors (which I have sent to you because there
    is contained in them the true state of the treaty as it stood whilst
    the differences lasted); the last of those papers will let your
    Excellence see that they are now very near a closure; and the truth
    is, that there is now nothing wanting but the drawing up of things
    into form, and the signing on both sides, which I believe will be
    effected within three or four days at furthest. But because we
    cannot rely upon the peace as made until it be actually signed, his
    Highness will defer the sending instructions to you in reference
    either to your present negotiation or returning home until the next,
    when your Excellence may certainly except them; and in the meantime
    your Excellence may rest assured that there hath been no other cause
    in delaying instructions to you upon this subject but the desire
    that there is in everybody to give you clear directions in so
    doubtful a case as this. If your staying or returning did depend
    upon your own negotiation there, it were easy to leave you to your
    own guidance; but when it rests merely upon the conclusion of the
    present treaty here with the Dutch, it is not possible to give you
    any instructions which you may with safety act upon until the issue
    thereof be perfectly known; and after that, your Excellence shall
    not be an hour without the knowledge of his Highness's pleasure
    thereupon.

    "It is certain this State hath moved upon Christian grounds only in
    making this peace: we have not been beaten or frightened into it;
    the Dutch have not yet any fleet at sea, nor can have this month, if
    the war should continue. In the meantime we have a hundred and forty
    sail at sea, and better ships than we have had at any time
    heretofore, which gives occasion to all our neighbours to wonder at
    our intentions thereby.

    "Since I began my letter I have been with the Dutch Ambassador, and
    every article is agreed word for word, so that nothing now remains
    to be done but to write them over and sign, which will be done upon
    Monday next. It is not possible for me to send unto your Excellence
    a copy of the articles as they are now agreed; I hope to do it by
    the next, when you will be satisfied concerning the reports I hear
    there are in Sweden, concerning the honourable terms the Dutch have
    gotten by this treaty. I know not what men may expect in matters of
    honour; I am sure the true interest of the nation, both in point of
    trade and otherwise, is provided for more fully than ever hath been
    in any treaty made between these States.

    "The French Ambassador had a public audience on Monday last. There
    is joined with him in commission one Monsieur le Baas, in quality of
    a Commissary, who is a great confidant of the Cardinal's, and a very
    crafty man. The French doth certainly intend by all means to make a
    league with his Highness, and offers very frankly and considerably
    as to our present interest. The Spaniard thinks he saith more to
    invite the Protector to look that way and embrace an alliance with
    him; and sure he is the steadier friend, and hath the better and
    more considerable trade.[142]

    "The news I have either from France or Holland this week your
    Excellence will receive enclosed. The affairs in Scotland do not
    much alter: Middleton is very active to get an army, but keeps in
    the most northerly parts. We never met with any of their forces but
    we beat them--the last letters being that we fell upon a party and
    took forty prisoners and sixty horse, which is all we have from
    thence.

    "I have done my utmost to get the Swedish ships released; but to say
    the truth, although some of the Swedes are innocent, yet many of
    them appear to be deceivers, which makes the rest fare the worse. I
    endeavoured to get a resolution of the case your Excellence wrote
    about by your former letters, so as to have sent it by this post,
    but could not; the orders which have been made about it since my
    last I have sent, whereof your Excellence may see the care that is
    had to do justice therein.

    "What your Excellence is informed concerning the preferring of the
    Agent of the Swiss to Lagerfeldt in their farewell, is a great
    mistake. I know no honour done to him at his going away, but the
    sending the answer of his letter to him by the master of the
    ceremony; he had neither gift nor entertainment that I know of.

    "I hope the copy of the articles of the Dutch treaty, which I
    formerly sent, your Excellence hath received before now. I am sorry
    to hear that your entertainment in Sweden begins to be like my Lord
    St. John's in Holland; but I trust the Lord will continue his
    protection to yourself and family, which is the prayer of

                  "Your Excellence's humble servant,
                                                    "JO. THURLOE.
    "March 31, 1654.

    "Monsieur Bonnele, the Queen of Sweden's Commissary, hath desired
    audience to deliver a letter congratulatory to his Highness from the
    Queen. The superscription is not very right; besides, your
    Excellency having writ nothing about it, some difficulty hath been
    in the delivery of it; but yet at last resolved to receive it as it
    is."

This letter is inserted to show by it the constant way and course of intelligence, and the
generality and clearness of it, between Thurloe and Whitelocke, whereby his business and reputation
in this Court was very much advanced, and Whitelocke made great use and advantage by it. The
papers usually enclosed in Thurloe's letters were many, and contained all particulars of moment
touching the Dutch treaty, as also relating to the affairs of England and of most parts of
Christendom. One clause in this letter of Thurloe's, that, after the Dutch treaty had concluded,
his Highness would send new instructions to Whitelocke, for his direction to proceed in the
treaty in Sweden,--this gave much trouble and perplexity of thoughts to Whitelocke. He could
not imagine what those new instructions should be. If they should be contrary to what he had
already agreed, it would be not only to the dishonour of Whitelocke, but of the Protector likewise
and of the English nation, for him to go back from what he had before assented to, and to go
out here with a snuff, retracting his former agreement, or else he must proceed contrary to
his instructions, which would not be ratified; and both of these mischiefs great enough. He
was in suspense whether he should seal the articles here beforehand, or expect the receipt
of these instructions before he signed them. He considered that if he should defer the signing
of the articles till after the receipt of those new instructions, that then they could not
at all be signed by the present Queen, who intended to continue but one week in the government,
and if she did not sign in that time she could not sign at all; but the whole must be remitted
to a new treaty with the new King, upon new credentials, commission, and instructions, which
would require much time and trouble.

He thought not fit to communicate his doubts, but resolved with himself to proceed to the finishing
of the treaty without staying for new instructions from England, because otherwise all his
negotiation would become fruitless; and he held himself obliged, in honour and conscience,
to make good what he had already assented unto before any mention of new instructions came
to him, and what he had done being pursuant to his former instructions, and in his judgement
for the advantage and good of England.

He was also willing to persuade himself that the new instructions would extend only to the
order of his return, and was so to be taken by Thurloe's letter, and to the close of his whole
negotiation; wherein he had done nothing, and resolved not to do anything, but what he believed
to be just and honest. He was also troubled lest the Queen should put off the treaty upon some
distaste about the secret article, and yet pretend only the absence of her Chancellor; but
Whitelocke left all to the providence of God, and His blessing upon honest and diligent means,
wherein he resolved not willingly to be wanting. And whether to put it off or to proceed to
the despatch of it seemed the more difficult, because of a letter from his wife, wherein she
wrote that Thurloe said to her, that it was fit her husband should receive certain instructions
what to do before his coming away, because, if he should do anything too suddenly, without
good warrant, it might cost him his life. This indeed were a worthy and meet recompense for
all the hardships, perils, and faithful services undergone and performed for those who were
then in power; but his hope and expectation of reward was from above the highest of them.

April 21, 1654.

[SN: Despatches to Thurloe.]

Whitelocke made his despatches for England, and part of his letters to Thurloe was this:--

    "The Queen and Court being out of town, this is a solitary place.
    The Danish Ambassador and the Dutch Resident are still here. The
    Spanish, German, and Muscovite Envoys are gone away. My business
    remains in a readiness to be signed, which is appointed upon the
    Queen's return; and she is looked for every day. If they be not
    signed within these few days, it cannot be done by her at all,
    because she intends to resign the Government the beginning of May,
    and perhaps the Prince may be crowned in June; and two or three
    months after that will pass before new credentials can be sent from
    his Highness, and it may be two or three months in ceremony and
    despatch of the business, by which time another winter will be here.

    "Upon which considerations I humbly conceive it much more for the
    service of my Lord to despatch my business here out of hand, and the
    rather because of the conclusion of the Dutch treaty, which I hope
    will prove very prosperous to our nation.

    "My articles had been signed before the Queen's going away but that
    she was willing to communicate them to the Prince before her
    Commissioners signed them, which I likewise thought very fit to be
    done, in regard he is so near the succession; and I likewise intend
    to salute him from my Lord Protector before my going out of this
    country.

    "I am now only in expectation of his Highness's further commands and
    instructions concerning my return, which I hope for by the next
    post.

    "I give you most hearty thanks for the papers, which are not only a
    comfort but very useful to me here. I received formerly from you a
    copy of the Dutch articles, and if I did not return you thanks for
    them, I confess I forgot myself, and likewise if in one of my
    letters I did not acquaint you that the Queen had an intention (as
    she told me) of sending a congratulatory letter to my Lord the
    Protector; but how the direction of it was I know not, because I
    never saw it; but I take it as a particular favour to me, that his
    Highness was pleased to receive it, though it were not as it ought
    to have been, wherein he hath answered the respect of the Queen, who
    excepted against my credentials, but yet received them.

    "I am exceeding glad of your good conclusion of the Dutch business,
    which, I am persuaded, will be of great advantage to our nation; and
    I look upon the issue of my business here being agreed before the
    issue of our treaty with the Dutch was known, to be both a
    particular respect to the Protector and Government, and less
    difficult than it would have been if transacted after our agreement
    with the Dutch.

    "They are much amused in these parts at our gallant fleet, and so
    early at sea; and I permit them all their conjectures, neither have
    they gained much allay of them from me by their inquisitiveness.

    "I had a compliment sent me the last night from the Dutch Resident,
    that he hoped ere long to have an opportunity to come and visit me;
    I answered, that I should not be wanting in that civility which
    became me.

    "I was entreated by the citizens of Stockholm to receive this suit
    of theirs in the enclosed paper.

                                                           "B. W.
    "April 21, 1654. Upsal."

April 22, 1654.

[SN: University Library at Upsal.]

The French Resident visited Whitelocke, and, seeing him ready to go take the air, offered him
his company, which Whitelocke could not refuse. They went together to the Library of this University,
where there are many good books, for the most part brought out of Germany; but it is not extraordinary,
nor exceeding the public libraries in England and elsewhere. One of Whitelocke's gentlemen
held it not exceeding his lord's private library at his own house in England, as he affirmed
to some of the scholars here, who were not pleased therewith, nor would easily believe that
the English Ambassador's library in his private house was to be compared to that of their University.

The keeper of this library is one Doctor Lovenius, there present, a learned and civil person,
who hath published several books in print, touching the laws and government and antiquities
of his country, in good Latin; and both himself and his works are worthy of esteem. He was
attending upon Whitelocke all the time of his being in the library and in the public places
of the University, and informed him of such things as he inquired touching the same; and, to
gratify their civility, Whitelocke sent them twenty of his own books which he had in his house,
all of them English authors, as the Primate of Armagh's works, Sir Henry Spelman, Selden, and
others; which was a present very acceptable, and kindly received by the University from him.

[SN: University of Upsal.]

They affirm this University to be very ancient; but there are no colleges or public houses
for the maintenance of the scholars, or public revenue belonging to them; so that they do not
live together in bodies or companies by themselves, but every one severally as he can agree
or find for his convenience. But here are divers public rooms or schools where the professors
and scholars use to meet and perform their exercises openly; and the rooms of their library
are three, about twenty foot square apiece.

There are all sorts of professors for the arts and sciences, who are promised good salaries,
but they complain that they are not well paid; and though some of them be very learned, yet
they take not much pains; it may be according to the proverb, "mal payé mal servi"--he that
is ill paid doth but ill service. Some counted the number of scholars to be about three hundred,
which is not more than may be found in one college in England. They make great preparation
by printing their theses and publishing them, and inviting the grandees to their disputations,
where the Queen in person is sometimes present, though the exercise is only the art of well
disputing, except in some of their professors and eminent persons.

Their University is a kind of corporation, like others, their want of supplies not affording
them so much perfection, and their defect of government giving them liberty and temptation
to disorder, to which they are much addicted; but in their sermons, whilst the English were
among them, they would propose them as a pattern of civility and pious conversation. Their
government is by a Chancellor, who at present is the Ricks-Chancellor; and it hath constantly
been in the hands of some eminent and great person.

[SN: Cathedral of Upsal.]

Whitelocke and the Resident visited the Cathedral Church, which is fair and large, built with
brick, and covered with copper. They affirm it to be one of the most ancient churches of Europe,
and that the Gospel was here early planted, but earlier in the church of old Upsal, which is
of a quadrangular form, and formerly dedicated to their heathen gods. Their cathedral, they
say, was the seat of an arch-flamen; and in the places of arch-flamens and flamens, upon their
conversion to Christianity (as in England, so here), bishops and archbishops were instituted;
and now their cathedral, as other churches, is full of images, crucifixes, and such other furniture
as the Lutheran churches tolerate, and is little different therein from the Popish churches.

The Resident and Whitelocke took also a view of the castle and city of Upsal. The castle is
near the town, seated upon the point of a hill; it is built of brick, plastered over, strong
and beautiful. If it had been finished, the design was to have had it four-square; but two
sides of it only are built. It had been very large and noble if it had been perfected. As it
is, it contains many rooms, and sufficient for the Court; some of them are great and stately,
but up two stories, after the fashion of that country. If it had been finished, it would have
equalled any other, if not the castle of Stockholm itself.

[SN: Environs of Upsal.]

The prospect from the castle is very beautiful; the country round about it pleasant and fruitful,
and distinguished into meadows, pastures, and arable fields, and the river Sale passing through
them, which loseth itself about half a league from thence into a great lake. The river is navigable
with boats of about twenty or thirty tons, many leagues together, going through the lake also;
it is not muddy, nor unfurnished with the fish of those parts, and is about half as broad as
the Thames at Henley. It runs at the foot of the hill on which the castle stands, and the town
is built upon it; and it waters most part of the streets, to their great commodity. It is for
this reason called Upsal, because Ubbo--who, they say, was the son of Gomer, the son of Japhet,
the son of Noah--this Ubbo built this town upon the river Sale, and therefore called it, after
his own name, Ubbo Sale, by contraction of speech now called Upsal. All agree it to be one
of the most ancient of their cities, the metropolitan see of their archbishop, and in old time
the residence of their kings, and where they were invested with the regal dignity. The country
about it seemed one of the most pleasant and fruitful of these parts. The town itself is not
much beautified with stately buildings, not above nine or ten houses being built with brick;
the rest of them, after the fashion of their country, built with great bodies of fir-trees,
and covered with turf; the fairest of their brick houses was that where the English Ambassador
lodged.

This city hath not much trade, and therefore not much wealth. The government of it is according
to the municipal law of the country, and as other cities are; their head officer is a Burgomaster,
who hath for his assistants a council, in the nature of the common councils in our corporations
in England, consisting of the principal burgesses and inhabitants of the city, who have power,
with the Burgomaster, as to making of ordinances, and in the government.

In their journey to take the air the Resident and Whitelocke had much discourse touching the
images in their church, and about the observation of their Sabbath; wherein the Resident was
furnished with the usual arguments of the Papists, and was answered by Whitelocke, and was
not so positive as most of his persuasion use to be. He discoursed also about the Dutch treaty
in England, to get from Whitelocke what he could to report to the Danish Ambassador and Dutch
Resident; for which he was fitted by Whitelocke's answers to him.

April 23, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke punishes two of his retinue for neglect of the Lord's Day.]

This being the Lord's Day, many gentlemen of the English and Scots nation then in town came
to Whitelocke's house to the morning sermon, and most of them staid the afternoon sermon also.
And so many strangers being there attentive in the holy duties, it gave the greater cause of
scandal and offence to Whitelocke that divers of his own family were absent, whereas, by his
orders, they were all enjoined to a constant attendance, especially at those religious exercises;
nevertheless some of them (particularly Mr. Castle and Andrew Potley) were therein more in
fault than others, and, after many admonitions, would not reform, but made it their common
practice almost every Lord's Day in the afternoon to be absent, and to go abroad and take the
air. Whitelocke considering the reproach and scandal, and the ill example hereby to his family,
and the doing of that by some of them against which he had spoken so much here to the people
of this place, upon which it would be collected that either he had not the power over his own
people to order them as he judged fit, or else that he and the rest of his company were dissemblers,
and found fault with that in others which they either acted or tolerated in themselves;--Whitelocke
finding two absent on this day, he gave order to his steward to see their trunks and goods
carried out of his house, and themselves dismissed of further attendance on him, and removed
from his family. Yet afterwards, upon the interceding of others for them, and their own submission,
the punishment was suspended; and when they perceived that Whitelocke was in earnest, it caused
a reformation, both in those two and in others, as to this duty and in other particulars.

[SN: The Queen returns to Upsal.]

About nine o'clock this evening the Queen came to town. She had in her train but one coach
with six horses, and three horsemen; so little ceremony did she observe as to her own port,
but would rather make this sudden and private return than break her word with Whitelocke, whom
in a compliment she had promised to be here again within a few days; and she kept her word
honourably and constantly. But Whitelocke was sorry that she continued her old custom, too
frequent here, of travelling upon the Lord's Day.

April 24, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke pays his court to the Queen.]

Whitelocke waited on the Queen to give her the welcome home, and found her lodgings changed,
leaving the better rooms for the Prince. She excused her long stay out of town, and said she
would now have no more delay in his business, but it should be forthwith despatched. Whitelocke
told her that the Chancellor and his son were not yet come to town, but he humbly thanked her
Majesty for the speed of her return. She assured him that her Chancellor and his son would
be in town the next day, and that she should not have come to town so soon but for his business;
that the day after her Chancellor's coming the articles might be signed. She likewise discoursed
with him about the secret article, that in case those here should not perform justly with her,
that then the Protector should not be bound by this treaty. Whitelocke told her that Woolfeldt
and he had conference about it, and had fully considered it, and were both of opinion that
it would be unfit for her Majesty to make such an article, and it might turn to her prejudice;
but Whitelocke said, that if she pleased to write to the Protector, and to leave her letters
with Whitelocke to procure an answer from his Highness to her Majesty, whereby his care for
her good and assistance to her might appear, and the letter to be fit to be shown, it might
be of more advantage to her than such a secret article, to which he was not empowered to assent,
but it must be remitted to the Protector; and whether he would consent to it in that way or
not, was doubtful; and when it should be known to those here, it would be distasteful. Upon
this the Queen seemed fully satisfied as to the secret article to be laid aside and not more
thought on.

Whitelocke advised her as formerly touching her liberty, and not long continuing here after
her resignation; and she thanked him for his advice, and said, that in case those here should
not deal justly with her, she hoped she should find the Protector a friend to her, and that
she did put herself upon his nobleness and friendship. Whitelocke told her, that the Protector
was a great lover and maintainer of justice and honour, and had a particular affection to her
Majesty, which he believed she would find him ready to manifest upon this or any other occasion,
and find him a true friend to her; wherewith (poor lady!) she seemed much comforted, having
brought her affairs to so low an ebb as this was, and thus high was the Protector's reputation
here. As to the general business of the treaty with Whitelocke, she said it would be fit to
have the articles signed tomorrow, and that Whitelocke soon after should have his audience,
and she would give order to have it done accordingly.

She asked Whitelocke if he would bear her company to take the air, which he did; and she riding
a horse managed to the great saddle, who was troublesome, she came into her coach, and caused
Whitelocke to sit in the same boot with her, that they might discourse the more privately.
There were also in her coach the Senator Rosenhau, Grave Tott, and Steinberg.

[SN: Whitelocke presents his black horses to the Queen,]

The Queen freely told Whitelocke that if he would not sell his horses, as she understood he
would not, that yet she should take it for a favour if he would let her have one of his sets
of coach-horses, which would do her great service in her intended journey, they being fitter
for travel than any she had. Whitelocke told her they were all at her Majesty's service; that
he thought it not becoming him to sell them, but if she pleased to accept them, she should
freely have them; that he thought his black horses fittest for her and best, and there were
eight of them, and the other set he intended to present unto the Prince{6}; that, she said,
would be very well, and she kindly thanked him and accepted of his compliment.

[SN: some distilled waters,]

Whitelocke also told the Queen that he had a small cabinet of glasses of spirits of waters,
essences of excellent kinds, extracted; but he believed that her Majesty did not much esteem
such things, and they were too inconsiderable to make a present of them to the Queen-mother,
if she had any liking of them. The Queen said her mother was much pleased with such essences,
and that she would send them to her from Whitelocke. He asked when he should bring them, and
an English Bible which he promised to the Queen. She said, tomorrow if he pleased, and that
at all times he should be welcome to her.

April 25, 1654.

Grave Eric sent his secretary to Whitelocke to inform him of his being come to town purposely
for the despatch of his business, and for the signing of the articles; and he desired to know
what time this afternoon he might have the liberty to come and visit Whitelocke, after he had
been with the Queen. Whitelocke told the secretary that he should be glad to see his lord after
Whitelocke had likewise been at the Court; and there they met.

Whitelocke went in to the Queen and presented her with the cabinet of essences, which was of
green velvet, lined with silver lace very richly; within it were about twenty glasses of spirits
of the rarest kinds, each glass stopped with a silver head of English silver, to screw off
and on, and a lock and key of the same; and opening the cabinet the Queen smelt of most of
the glasses, but tasted none of them; she highly commended them and the cabinet, especially
the English silver, whereof she had some discourse, and said she would send them to her mother,
who would be very glad of them.

[SN: and an English Bible;]

Then according to his promise he presented her Majesty with an English Bible, of a very fair
print and richly bound; and upon that they had this discourse:--

Whitelocke. If your Majesty would be pleased to spend some time in reading this Bible, and
comparing it with those in other languages, it would be a great help to your understanding
of the English, if your Majesty have any further thoughts thereof.

Queen. My desire still is to gain the English tongue, and I think this which you mention will
be a good way to learn it. I ask your pardon that you staid so long before you came in to me;
nobody told me of your being without, and I am ashamed of this incivility.

Wh. The incivility, Madam, is on my side, by interrupting your greater affairs; but I come
not now as an ambassador, but as a particular servant to bring this Bible to your Majesty.

Qu. It is a noble present, and there was the less reason to make you stay for admittance with it.

[SN: and exhorts her Majesty to read it.]

Wh. This book was presented to me by an English doctor, with a letter mentioning the text that
the Beræans were accounted the more noble because they received the word with gladness, as
I hope your Majesty will.

Qu. I receive it from you with much thankfulness, and shall gladly make use of it as the best
of books.

Wh. Your Majesty, by often reading it, and comparing it with other Bibles, will not only thereby
gain advantage as to the language, but the highest comfort to your soul.

Qu. I have used to read much in the Bible, and take great contentment in it.

Wh. Your Majesty will find more contentment and comfort in the study of this book than of all
other books whatsoever, and therefore I do humbly recommend the often reading of it to your
Majesty.

Qu. I doubt you have an ill opinion of me that you so earnestly persuade me to this, as if
you thought me too backward in it.

Wh. I only give my humble advice to your Majesty, out of my own experience, of the great comfort,
wisdom, and true pleasure which is to be met with in this book, and nowhere else, and that
all things out of it are of no value.

Qu. I am full of the same opinion; but there are too many who have not so venerable an opinion
of it as they ought to have.

Wh. There are indeed, Madam, too many who mock at this book, and at God himself, whose book
it is; but these poor worms will one day know that God will not be mocked, and that they and
their reproaches will sadly perish together; and I am glad to hear your Majesty's distaste
of such wicked ones.

Qu. Surely every good Christian ought to distaste such men and such opinions.

They had much more discourse upon the same subject, wherein Whitelocke spake the more, because
he found the Queen more inclined to it now than he had perceived her to be at other times.

Being come from the Queen, he spake with Grave Eric in another room, whose opinion was that
it would be fit to sign the articles on the morrow, and said that his father would be returned
time enough to do it. Whitelocke doubted that, by reason of his weariness after his journey,
it might not be then convenient. Eric replied, that there would be nothing to be done that
would occasion trouble, the signing and putting the seals to the articles already prepared
and agreed on was all that was to be done. Whitelocke demanded if the power given by the Queen
to her Commissioners were sealed. Eric said it was not, but that Canterstein would be in town
this evening, and would see all done.

April 26, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke complains of further delays.]

Grave Eric came to Whitelocke's house, and this discourse passed between them:--

Whitelocke. It seems to me somewhat strange that after all things agreed between her Majesty's
Commissioners and me, I should yet attend three weeks to obtain one half-hour for the signing
of the articles.

Grave Eric. The Queen's going out of town hath occasioned it, and the great business touching
her resignation, which hath so taken up all men's thoughts and counsels, that there hath been
hardly room left for any other matter; and when the Queen goes away, those of the Council also
take the liberty to go into the country; and upon such extraordinary changes as these are,
it is no strange thing for public ministers to be retarded; and the same thing hath been practised
upon your changes in England.

Wh. I have not observed, either in England or elsewhere, that after an agreement upon a treaty,
and nothing remaining but to sign and seal, that they have used afterwards to delay it three
weeks together; yet I am willing to promise myself that the servant of the Protector may expect
from this Crown as much respect as any other public minister.

Gr. Eric. There hath been more respect showed to you than hath been accustomed to any other.
I believe your business may be despatched in half an hour; and if my father return this evening
time enough to do it, it may be done this night; if not, then without fail tomorrow morning.

Wh. I am the more earnest herein, looking upon it as my duty to the Protector and my respect
to this Crown, to avoid any occasion of discontent between the two nations; and therefore I
shall freely tell you that it will be very material to have the articles signed this day or
tomorrow, before I receive this week's letters, by which I expect to understand that the articles
between England and Holland are signed; among which articles one is, that neither the one nor
the other confederate shall make any alliance with any other prince or state, without first
giving notice thereof to the other confederate. Now if the articles between the Protector and
the Queen be signed before I have notice of this by the Dutch articles being signed, the signing
of our articles here first will be without exception in this point; but if I receive this information
from England before the articles be signed here, it will be doubtful whether then I shall be
in a capacity afterwards to sign the articles here, whereupon sundry inconveniences will ensue,
which I would willingly prevent.

Gr. Eric. This is indeed a material point, and I am much startled at it. I shall go and see
if my father be come to town, that I may acquaint him with it, and doubtless the business may
be finished tomorrow.

Wh. What do you resolve to do in the matter I proposed touching Guinea?

Gr. Eric. The person concerned in that business is now in town; I shall bring him to you to
give you information therein, and upon speaking together we may come to some conclusion in
it. I think the best way will be to prepare an article to this purpose, that all injuries done
by the one or the other party in the several plantations in Guinea, and the satisfaction and
damages to be given to the parties grieved, be upon the whole matter remitted to the consideration
and arbitrement of persons to be chosen, as well by the company of English merchants trading
to those parts as of the merchants of this country having interest in the plantations there.

Wh. I think this may be a good expedient for this business; and I shall rather submit to it
than depart from hence, without any agreement at all, to have this matter, either now or at
some other time, to be taken into consideration; and therefore if you please to direct an article
to be drawn up to the effect proposed by yourself, and to send it to me to be perused, I shall
be willing to consent to any reasonable settlement of this business; so as my countrymen, the
English merchants interested in that plantation, may have no cause to believe that I have neglected
what was specially recommended to me on their behalf, and that my superiors may see my care
in this as well as in other matters.

In the evening Monsieur Bloome sent word to Whitelocke that the Chancellor was come to town,
and that Canterstein was expected this night.

Presently Whitelocke sent to the Chancellor to know how he did after his journey, and when
he might have the liberty to visit him. The Chancellor answered that he was well, and purposed
this evening or tomorrow morning to go to the Queen, and afterwards he would send to Whitelocke
to let him know what time they might meet to finish his business. This seemed to Whitelocke
a little different from the ordinary rules of civility--that when he sent to the Chancellor
to know at what time he might come to him, the Chancellor answered that his purpose was to
go to the Queen; but Whitelocke hoped that the intent was to receive her Majesty's direction
in his business.

April 27, 1654.

[SN: Signing the articles again deferred till the morrow.]

Lagerfeldt came to Whitelocke from the Chancellor to tell him that the Chancellor was come
to town purposely for the signing of the articles. Whitelocke said he was much obliged to the
Chancellor for so great a favour, and that, after three weeks elapsed since the articles were
agreed, he might now hope it would be thought seasonable to confirm that agreement with hand
and seal. Lagerfeldt answered that it might be done this day, and therefore he came to Whitelocke
that his secretary might meet with the Queen's secretary, and they together might examine the
books, which in the evening may be signed and sealed by both parties.

Whitelocke. Hath Monsieur Canterstein procured the Queen's patent to authorize her Commissioners
to conclude this treaty?

Lagerfeldt. It must be done before the signing of the articles, and then you may have your
audience when your Excellence pleaseth.

Wh. It were fit to have that done.

Lag. I know not whether the presents which her Majesty intends to make to your Excellence and
your company be yet ready; and I know the Queen intends to express as much honour to you as
she hath done to any ambassador whatsoever.

Wh. I desire no greater honour than the despatch of my business, and liberty to return home.

Lag. I shall serve your Excellence therein to the utmost of my power.

In the afternoon Whitelocke sent his son James and his secretary Earle, and Swift, with the
articles and papers touching his business, unto Canterstein, where they examined them and corrected
what was mistaken. They asked at what hour Whitelocke might repair to the Chancellor for signing
the articles. Canterstein answered, that the Chancellor was weary with his journey; but he
went to him and brought word that, if Whitelocke would come to the Chancellor about five or
six o'clock this evening, he would be ready to confer with him. This being reported to Whitelocke
by his son, he sent him back to Canterstein to know whether the Queen had sealed the grant
of power to her Commissioners, who brought word that it was not done, and that the Queen went
out of town this evening, and returned not till tomorrow.

After this message, and when Whitelocke saw that his letters of this week were not come, he
sent to the Chancellor to let him know that he feared it might be troublesome to him for Whitelocke
to come to him this evening, and that, if he pleased, Whitelocke would come to him the next
morning. To which the Chancellor willingly agreed, and appointed their meeting tomorrow, betwixt
eight and nine o'clock in the morning. The Chancellor inquired whether Whitelocke had yet received
his letters from England. The servant of Whitelocke said that the letters were not yet come,
but that by the last week's letters the news came that the peace between England and Holland
was certainly concluded; to which the Chancellor said, I desire to be excused.

By these passages Whitelocke perceived that their little design was, notwithstanding all he
had endeavoured, that before they would sign the articles they desired to see this week's letters;
which he took as directed by the good hand of Providence, in regard that by this means he should
be the more excused in what he intended to do, having staid for this week's letters and received
none, and the politicians here would be deceived in their expectation. He wondered at the Queen's
going out of town before she sealed the commission to her deputies: some thought the reason
to be, because her intended presents were not yet ready.

Whitelocke received a letter from the Protector's Resident at Hamburg, wherein this was part:--

    "For his Excellence my Lord Ambassador Whitelocke, Extraordinary
    Ambassador from England with the Queen of Sweden. Humbly these.

    "The English letters are not yet come, but from Holland they write
    that two expresses were come on the 21st instant, with letters
    assuring that the peace was concluded and mutually signed, and that,
    as soon as the ratification could arrive in England from the States
    General, hostility should cease.

                  "I am, my Lord,
                      "With tender of my humble service,
                          "Your Excellence's most humble servant,
                                                  "RI. BRADSHAWE.
    "Hamburg, 15th April, 1654."

Whitelocke made use of this intelligence as far as it would go; and some others in this town
had the same news from Holland.

April 28, 1654.

[SN: The signing of the treaty.]

At the time appointed Whitelocke and his company came to the Chancellor's lodging, with whom
was his son Grave Eric and Secretary Canterstein. Whitelocke's son James and his secretary
Earle were admitted into the room. All the time of their being there Secretary Canterstein
was uncovered and did not sit. Whitelocke's son James was also bare, as became him, but was
admitted to sit down at the lower end of the table, on the same side with his father, who sat
at the upper end, and the Chancellor over-against him, and Grave Eric by his father.

The Chancellor acquainted Whitelocke that the Queen had shown the articles to the Prince, who
did well approve of them, and desired to have a strict league and friendship with the Protector,
and that the Prince was ready in what should appertain to him to contribute to that end. Whitelocke
answered that the Protector would esteem the friendship of the Prince a great honour to him;
and to show his desire of it, that Whitelocke intended to salute the Prince from the Protector.
The Chancellor and his son said that it would be very necessary for Whitelocke to do so, and
that the Prince intended to come nearer to this city, and then Whitelocke might have the better
passage to his Court by water by the lake Meter, than to go to him by a land-journey; and that
from the Prince he might, by the same lake, be transported to Stockholm.

After many ceremonies and compliments, with apologies for the delay of the sealing of the articles,
they fell to their business. Grave Eric read the articles prepared by Whitelocke, and his father
overlooked them; Whitelocke's son James read the articles prepared by the Chancellor, and Whitelocke
overlooked them; and some mistakes being amended, Whitelocke asked whether the Queen's commission
to give them power were sealed. They answered, it was prepared, and that the Queen would seal
it, and it was usual to be done at any time after the sealing of the articles; that yesterday
it was not fully ready for the Queen before her going out of town, but that she intended to
be here again this day, and all would be ready for her sealing.

The Chancellor directed Canterstein to read the copy of the instrument for giving power to
the Queen's Commissioners, and desired Whitelocke to give to him the commission of the Protector
to Whitelocke, who said that he had formerly delivered to them a copy of it, which was then
read; and the Chancellor took exception to it, because there was no mention in it of ratifying
what should be here agreed upon by Whitelocke; who answered that this clause of ratification
was in his first commission under the Great Seal of England, unto which the commission and
powers given him since by the Protector do refer; and he offered to deliver into their hands
that commission under the Great Seal. And if they should require that Whitelocke might yet
have a larger power, whereof he thought there was no need, (they might perceive by the Protector's
letters that he would not scruple to give it,) Whitelocke said that he would take it upon him,
at his return to England, to procure it to be done; but he said he could not leave with them
the Protector's letters and instructions to him, because part of them was secret.

The Chancellor said it was the custom to deliver the original letters of power into the hands
of the other party, that they might be registered in the public acts of the Chancery, and that
Whitelocke should receive their commissions to carry with him into England; that if he would
pass his word that, at his return to England, he would procure new and larger powers, and take
care to send the letters of them hither from the Protector, they should be satisfied therewith:
which Whitelocke promised to do, and desired that the Queen would ratify all that should be
done here before her resignation, and keep the ratification by her until the Protector should
seal letters of ratification on his part, and then they might be exchanged and mutually delivered.
The Chancellor consented hereunto, and asked what seal the Protector used in these public businesses.
Whitelocke said he used his own seal. The Chancellor asked if he did not use the seal of the
Commonwealth, in regard that this league was between the Queen and kingdom of Sweden and the
Protector and Commonwealth of England. Whitelocke said that the Protector might, if he pleased,
command the seal of the Commonwealth to be affixed to the letters of ratification, which he
believed would be done if they desired it; and that, by the same reason, it was fit that the
letters of ratification here should be under the Great Seal of Sweden.

The Chancellor said that in Sweden, when the Government was in the hands of Commissioners,
the King or Queen not being crowned, it was usual for some chief men, of alliance to the deceased
King, to make use of his private seal, and of no other; that if this treaty were with the Poles
or Danes, or others, that being wanting in their letters which was in Whitelocke's, he would
not proceed any further with them until they should procure a fuller power and commission;
and he said he had been present at many treaties which had been broken off upon a less defect
than appeared in Whitelocke's letters. But in regard their business was with the Protector,
whom the Queen and himself did so much honour and had so great a confidence in him, and upon
Whitelocke's promise to procure such a power as they desired to be enlarged to him from the
Protector, the Chancellor said they were ready to confirm the articles with their seals. Whitelocke
took upon him what they desired, and then the Chancellor and his son Eric sealed that part
of the articles which Whitelocke had prepared, and Whitelocke sealed the other part of the
articles which had been prepared by the Chancellor and his son Grave Eric.[168]

The Queen's Commissioners insisted to have the date of these articles 11th of April, because
then they were fully agreed, and the time after was for engrossing and preparing them to be
signed and sealed; and Whitelocke did not oppose their desire herein.

Thus, after a long and intricate (it might be said vexatious) transaction of this great affair
for near five months together, all bitter oppositions, cunning practices, and perplexed difficulties
being removed and overcome, through the goodness and assistance of the only wise Counsellor,
the Prince of Peace, it pleased Him to give a good issue and happy success in the conducting
of this treaty by him who accounts his great labour and hazards in this transaction well bestowed,
and humbly prays that this treaty may prove to the honour of God, the interest of the Protestant
cause, and the good of both nations therein concerned.

April 29, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke's passport through Flanders.]

Though Whitelocke received no letters this week from England, yet he had some from Hamburg
and from Flanders, among which was one from Don Piementelle full of civility and compliment,
giving Whitelocke notice of his safe arrival in Flanders, and advising him to take that way
in his return; and in it was a letter in Spanish from Piementelle to the Prince of Mamines
in Flanders, to be made use of by Whitelocke if he should have occasion there, for the more
safety and accommodation of his journey. This letter Whitelocke caused to be translated:--

    "Most excellent Sir,

    "My Lord Whitelocke, the Lord Ambassador Extraordinary of England,
    having finished his embassy in this Court, is resolved to return
    through this province, having passed from Hamburg to Cologne, and
    that he may go to Brussels with better security, he desires a
    passport from your Highness to the Lord Archduke. I, having written
    that it may be despatched, and added that it may be remitted to your
    Excellence, do entreat you to order that the said despatch may be
    delivered to the party whom the said Lord Ambassador shall send from
    Cologne for it; and that, he passing through this town, his
    Lordship, by his civil entertainment, may understand the favour your
    Excellence doth afford me, I owing to this honourable person many
    and singular respects, which I desire to manifest and acknowledge. I
    am confident your Excellence will assist me herein, and will be
    disposed to employ me in many services of yours in Madrid, whither I
    am commanded to go, by order from my Lord the King, and shall begin
    my journey within three or four days, by way of Brussels, where I
    hope to find your Excellence's commands, which I assure you I shall
    esteem in all places and obey with the highest punctuality. God
    preserve your Excellence the many years of my desires.

                  "Your Excellence's greatest servant,
                                                 "ANT^O PIMENTEL."

In the letter which Whitelocke wrote to Thurloe, after an account of the passages since his
last, he wrote thus:--

[SN: Report of the signing of the treaty to Thurloe.]

    "Having received no letters by the post yesterday from England, I
    was contented to seal the articles of our treaty; for if but a few
    days should be intermitted, they could not have been signed at all,
    because upon Tuesday next the Ricksdag, or Parliament here, is
    appointed to meet, and within two or three days after their meeting
    the Queen intends to resign her Government, and it will be some time
    after before the Prince be crowned. I shall have much to do to
    despatch the necessary ceremonies here of my public audience, to
    take my leave of the Queen, with the many visits I am to perform,
    according to the custom to which I am to conform, in regard of the
    honour of his Highness and our nation; for he who neglects these
    ceremonies here is censured for a mechanic or a boor. I intend from
    hence to go to the Prince of Sweden, to salute him from my Lord
    Protector, as I am advised that the Prince expects and desires it.
    From thence I purpose to go to Stockholm, where I am to take ship
    for Lübeck; and from thence to Hamburg, where I shall attend his
    Highness's further commands, or some ships to be sent for my
    transport into England, which I earnestly entreat you to procure in
    time.

    "I hope, before my going from hence, to receive his Highness's
    order, which I long since wrote for, concerning my return; but
    however, my business being effected here, I presume I may, without
    displeasure to his Highness, be upon my return homewards; the
    rather, because upon the change which is shortly to be here my
    commission will be at an end.

    "The Queen intends, shortly after her resignation, to go to the Spa,
    which I have cause to believe. In those parts they say the King of
    the Romans will wait upon her, but that I doubt.

    "Her Majesty hath showed extraordinary affection and respect to my
    Lord Protector; so hath the Chancellor and his son Grave Eric, and
    my Lord Lagerfeldt, etc."

[SN: Whitelocke's interview with the Queen after the signing of the treaty.]

Whitelocke waited on the Queen, and gave her an account of the signing and sealing of his articles;
whereupon she said:--

Queen. I am glad that this business is done to your satisfaction.

Whitelocke. There remains only your Majesty's sealing your letters of full power to your Commissioners
who treated with me.

Qu. I sealed them this morning.

Wh. Then my humble suit is, that your Majesty would appoint a day for my audience to take my leave.

Qu. This is Saturday, but if you desire it you may have it on Friday next.

Wh. Would your Majesty's leisure permit to give me audience on Tuesday or Wednesday next, they
being no holidays?

Qu. The Assembly is to sit on Tuesday, and at their first meeting I shall have a great deal
of business with them, which will hinder me from any other affairs.

Wh. I humbly pray your Majesty to appoint it as soon as your own leisure will permit, for I
shall have many businesses and ceremonies after it to perform, before my going away.

Qu. On Monday next I will appoint a day; and touching the secret article, about which I formerly
discoursed with you, I have now altered my opinion, and am resolved to follow the advice that
you and Mr. Woolfeldt have given me. I will write a letter under my own hand to the Protector
to the effect you advised, and deliver it to you to be presented to him.

Wh. This will be much the better way.

Qu. I desire you to be careful of the letter; and before I seal it I will show it to you for
your advice in it.

Wh. Madam, I shall have a special care of it, and to procure an answer of it from the Protector,
I hope, to your Majesty's contentment, that you may make use of it if there shall be occasion;
and I believe the Protector will be a firm friend to your Majesty.

Qu. I doubt it not, nor your respects to me.

Wh. I am engaged by your many favours to serve your Majesty with all faithfulness.

Qu. I had some clothes in a ship coming hither, and the ship is taken, and my clothes detained
in England, so that I cannot get them to wear.

Wh. If your Majesty want clothes, I have a piece of English stuff at my house, which cost two
shillings a yard; and, if that were not too dear for your Majesty's wearing, I would send it
to you.

Qu. Two shillings a yard is dear enough for me: I pray send your stuff hither, and I shall
willingly accept of it, and thank you for it.

Wh. Will your Majesty be pleased on Monday next to go into England?

Qu. Hardly so soon; yet perhaps I may one day see England. But what is your meaning in this?

Wh. Madam, Monday next is the first day of May, a great day in England; we call it May-day,
when the gentlemen use to wait upon their mistresses abroad to bid the Spring welcome, and
to have some collation or entertainment for them. Now your Majesty being my mistress, if you
will do me the honour, that, after the custom of England, I may wait on you on May-day, and
have a little treatment for you after the manner of England; this I call going into England,
and shall take it as a very great favour from your Majesty.

Qu. If this be your meaning of going into England, I shall be very willing, as your mistress,
to go with you on Monday next, and to see the English mode.

Lagerfeldt and the master of the ceremonies dining with Whitelocke, he inquired of them what
was to be done by him as to presents to any of the Queen's servants or officers who had done
him respect in his business, or being here, and what other things were requisite to be done
by him, according to the usage of ambassadors in this Court before their going away, and when
he might obtain his audience to take his leave. The master of the ceremonies gave him good
and chargeable instructions; and Lagerfeldt agreed in most points with him, and, upon Whitelocke's
entreaty, undertook to see that the letters of full power to the Queen's Commissioners, and
the recredentials to Whitelocke, should be perfected and brought to him, and a day of audience
appointed.

Lagerfeldt told Whitelocke that the Queen was willing to present him with some of this country's
commodities, as copper, to carry with him into England, if it would be as acceptable to him
as other presents of diamonds and the like; and he said he hoped there was no order of the
Commonwealth of England to forbid the receiving of such presents by their public ministers.
He said, that formerly he asked of Monsieur Chanut, the French Ambassador here, if he would
accept a present of copper, and he willingly accepted it, and carried it with him, saying,
that he rather desired copper than diamonds or jewels, because he could better sell the copper
than jewels, and make money of it.

Whitelocke said, that whatsoever her Majesty pleased to bestow on him should be welcome to
him, and that he liked the commodities of this country as well as those of the Indies, and
that for Chanut's reason. He said that the Protector had not forbid him to receive any testimonies
of the Queen's respect to him, as she used to do to all public ministers; that the order of
the Commonwealth forbidding gifts or presents to public ministers was not now in force; that
he thought her Majesty's bounty to him, and his justification of the acceptance of it, might
be the more from such valuable presents as her Majesty had done him the honour to receive from
him, and his intention to bestow all his horses upon her, and such as she would appoint, which,
for the honour of the Commonwealth, he would not sell.

April 30, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke accepts a present of copper.]

Berkman and Monsieur Bloome dined with Whitelocke, and took occasion to magnify the respects
of the Chancellor and his son, Grave Eric, to the Protector and to Whitelocke, who was not
backward to join in those eulogies, and to acknowledge the respects. Berkman said that Canterstein
was to bring some writings to Whitelocke, and that Lagerfeldt had spoken to the Queen to present
Whitelocke with some copper; that she had given order for two hundred ship-pound of copper
to be brought from the mines to Stockholm, to be put aboard Whitelocke's ship, ready to be
carried away with him; that every ship-pound was here worth forty dollars, and was as much
as three hundred English pounds, which he cast up in the whole to the value of about £2500
sterling. And Whitelocke was satisfied in his own conscience that he might honourably receive
it, having given to the Queen as many presents already as were worth £1000, and engaged to
her his horses, which were worth about £2000 more, besides the gifts and gratuities which he
had liberally given, and intended to give, to the Queen's servants and officers; and that,
in recompense of above £3000 given away, he might well receive a present of the value of £2500.

Grave Leonhough visited Whitelocke, and had much discourse with him, not so proper for this
day. Donné sous ma main et sceau, à Upsale en Suède, ce 4ème d'Avril, 1654. B. WHITELOCKE."
Given under my hand and seal, at Upsal, in Sweden, this 4th day of April, 1654. B. WHITELOCKE."

[88] [It is curious to remark at the present time (1855) how the same questions have arisen
out of the state of war. The list of contraband articles established by Whitelocke's treaty
is still in force as between England and Sweden, and Liége is still the great resource of the
Continent for arms.]

[90] [Cromwell was already preparing the two armaments at Portsmouth, one of which afterwards
became the Mediterranean fleet, under Blake, of thirty-five ships, and the other, of thirty-two
ships, sailed in the following year under Penn and Venables for the West Indies.]

[91] [This gentleman is doubtless the same M. Woolfeldt whom Whitelocke frequently refers to;
for in a manuscript addressed to his children, Woolfeldt is mentioned by name as a person entertaining
similar sentiments towards his native country. Given under my hand and seal at Upsal, in Sweden,
this 14th day of April, 1654. B. W."

[131] "Whereas the bearer hereof, Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Halsall, had a pass from Colonel
Robert Lilburne, Commander-in-Chief of the Forces in Scotland under his Highness the Lord Protector
of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland, to transport himself, his servant, and
necessaries into Sweden upon his occasions, and, having despatched his business, he hath made
his request to me, being Ambassador from his said Highness the Lord Protector to her Majesty
the Queen of Sweden, to grant him my pass for his return into Scotland: These are therefore
to desire all commanders by sea or land, and all officers and others of the said Commonwealth
whom it may concern, to suffer him, the said Lieutenant-Colonel Halsall, quietly to pass into
Scotland, he acting nothing prejudicial to the Commonwealth aforesaid; and further I desire
that the Commander-in-Chief in Scotland will be pleased to show unto him, the said Lieutenant-Colonel,
such favour at all times as he shall there deserve. Given under my hand and seal, at Upsal,
in Sweden, this 14th of April, 1654. B. WHITELOCKE."

[142] [These words show that the contest between the French and Spanish alliance in London
was still going on; but they did not convey the truth to Whitelocke, for it was against Spain
that the great armament previously mentioned was destined to be used, in the expedition to
St. Domingo and the conquest of Jamaica.]

[168] The treaty thus signed ran in the following terms:--

[SN: Text of the treaty.]

   "We whose names are subscribed, Axel Oxenstiern, Chancellor of the
   Kingdom and Provincial Judge of the West Norlanders, of Lapland,
   Heredalia, and Jemptia, Earl of South Morea, free Baron in Kimitho,
   Lord in Tiholme and Tydoen, Knight of the Golden Spur; and Eric
   Oxenstiern, son of Axel, General President of the College of Trade,
   Earl of South Morea, free Baron in Kimitho, Lord in Tydoen, Viby, and
   Gorwallen, Senators of the Kingdom of Sweden, and Plenipotentiary
   Commissioners of the most Serene and most Potent Prince and Lady the
   Lady Christina, by the grace of God Queen of the Swedes, Goths, and
   Vandals, Great Prince of Finland, Duke of Esthonia, Carelia, Bremen,
   Veherden, Stettin, Pomerland, Cassubia and Vandalia, Prince of Rugia,
   and Lady of Ingria and of Wismar; do make known and testify that
   formerly there hath been a great amity between the Swedish and
   English nations, for which, to renew and increase the profit of it,
   it very well happened that the most illustrious and most excellent
   Lord Bulstrode Whitelocke, Constable of Windsor Castle, and at this
   time one of the Keepers of the Great Seal of England, being
   sufficiently authorized to treat of the following affairs, came to
   the S.R.M. our Lady, by commandment and in the name of Oliver, Lord
   Protector of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland,
   Ambassador Extraordinary from these countries and of the aforesaid
   Commonwealth. The same also our most S.R.M. hath benignly commanded
   us, who have the same and sufficient power, that after we should have
   considered with the aforesaid Lord Ambassador about the things which
   would be judged the most convenient to establish the liberty of
   commerce and navigation, and to corroborate the mutual amity in this
   time, that some certain things should be determined and written in
   form of articles of mutual alliance.

   "Therefore we, after a good deliberation together, agreed touching
   the affairs hereafter written, as they are by these following laws
   which are in this treaty, and by their clear words and without
   difficulty expressed. That is:--

   "1. That hereafter there be a good, sincere, firm peace and
   correspondence between the Queen and Kingdom of Sweden and the Lord
   Protector and the aforesaid Commonwealth, and between all and every
   one of the dominions, kingdoms, countries, provinces, islands, lands,
   colonies, towns, peoples, citizens, inhabitants, and all and every
   one of the subjects of either of the party, so that they may mutually
   embrace in entire love and affection.

   "2. The aforesaid confederates and subjects, people and inhabitants
   of either, shall, when occasion shall be presented, advance the
   common profit, and shall, if they know of any imminent danger or
   conspiration or machination of the enemies, admonish one another, and
   shall hinder them as much as lies in their power. Neither shall it be
   permitted to any of the confederates to do or treat by him, or by any
   other whatsoever, to the prejudice or damage of the lands and
   dominions of either, whatsoever they be, or in whatsoever place,
   either by sea or land. The enemies or rebels or adversaries shall in
   nowise be suffered, neither shall the rebels or traitors who
   undertake under the State of the other be received in his countries,
   and shall much less give them counsel, aid, or favour, nor shall
   admit that his subjects, people, or inhabitants should do anything
   like.

   "3. The Queen and Kingdom aforesaid and the Lord Protector and
   Commonwealth aforesaid shall, as much as in them lies, endeavour to
   take care, with all candour and affection, to remove all the
   hindrances which hitherto have interrupted the liberty of navigation
   and commerce between both the nations, as much in the dominions,
   lands, seas, and rivers of either of the confederates with other
   people and nations. They shall also endeavour to advance and defend
   the liberty of navigation and commerce against all sorts of
   disturbers for the reasons agreed upon in this treaty, or upon which
   hereafter they may agree, nor shall suffer, either through
   themselves, their subjects, or people, any offence to be committed or
   done against this institution.

   "4. For it is consented and agreed that the inhabitants and subjects
   of the aforesaid confederates be free to travel by sea or land into
   the kingdoms, countries, provinces, lands, islands, towns, cities,
   villages, walled or unwalled, fortified or no, ports, dominions
   whatsoever freely, or without safe-conduct, general or special, to go
   and thence to return, and thence to stay or pass over, and all the
   while to buy victuals and things necessary for their use, and are to
   be treated with all benevolence. And also it shall be lawful for the
   subjects, citizens, and inhabitants of either of the confederates to
   exercise merchandise and commerce in all places wherein any commerce
   hath hitherto been exercised, and the same merchandise may be carried
   in or forth according to their pleasure, paying nevertheless the
   usual tax, and observing the laws and ordinances of the aforesaid
   Kingdom and Commonwealth; supposing on both sides that the people,
   subjects, and inhabitants of either of the confederates shall have
   and possess in the countries, lands, dominions, and kingdom of the
   other as full and ample privileges, and as much freedom, liberty, and
   immunity, as any stranger possesseth, or shall possess, in the said
   dominions and kingdoms.

   "5. The merchants, masters of ships, pilots, seamen, and others,
   their ships, merchandise, and all goods in general of the said
   confederates and their subjects and inhabitants, shall not be
   apprehended or detained in the lands, ports, shores, harbours, or
   dominions whatsoever in alliance with the other, for any public use,
   expedition of war, or other cause, much less for any private man's
   use by virtue of any edict, general or special; neither shall they be
   molested or constrained by violence or injury or anything of that
   kind: provided that arrests be not prohibited if they are made
   according to the ordinary form of law, justice, and equity; they
   shall not neglect the punishment of any for private affection.

   "6. And if one or more ships of the subjects, citizens, or
   inhabitants, be they of war or of burden and private men's, shall be
   forced by tempests, or pursued by pirates and enemies, or any urgent
   necessity to the harbour or shores of the other confederate, and be
   forced to call for protection, they shall be received there with all
   benignity, humanity, and friendship, and at no time to be hindered,
   and all victual, reparation, and things fit for use at the ordinary
   price; they shall not be prohibited to depart or go out of the port
   or harbour by any pretence whatsoever, as long as they have not
   committed anything against the statutes, ordinances, and custom of
   the place where their ships are brought and where they shall sojourn.

   "7. Likewise, if one ship or more of war or of private men of the
   other confederate, and of the subjects and inhabitants, shall be
   shipwrecked or cast on the coast of the dominions of the other
   confederate, or for the future may suffer detriment, they may be
   relieved and helped at a price agreed on, so that whatsoever shall be
   saved from the shipwreck shall be preserved and restored to the true
   owner or his factor.

   "8. And if the subjects and inhabitants of the other confederate,
   whether they be merchants, their factors, servants, masters of ships,
   pirates, seamen, or others, have occasion to travel into the
   dominions of the other confederate, or if anything shall come in
   their name before a court of justice, or suits for their debts, or
   for any other lawful reason wherein they may need the help of the
   magistrate; in these things he shall be benign and ready for equity's
   sake, and shall administer justice without delay or unnecessary
   circumstances, and they shall not be hindered in their journey by any
   pretence, but whithersoever they go are to be used friendly, and
   shall have the liberty either in going or returning to carry and wear
   arms for their private defence, and to walk into the harbours,
   seaports, and in any public place of the other confederate armed;
   provided they give no occasion of just suspicion to the governors or
   magistrates of any place of any design against the public or private
   peace, but chiefly they are to behave themselves modestly, and to
   live without any injury.

   "9. It is lawful for the foresaid confederates and both their people
   to buy and export out of any of their countries, dominions, and
   kingdoms, all sorts of arms and provision of war, and freely and
   safely to carry their ships into what ports, stations, and harbours
   of the other confederate they please, and there to sojourn and from
   thence to go; and they are to carry themselves modestly, peaceably,
   and conform to all the laws and customs of the place, and they may
   trade there without any hindrance; likewise the ships of war have
   free leave to come to the ports, havens, and stations of the other
   confederates. But nevertheless, if there be a manifest suspicion in
   their number, they may forbid their access, without they have
   obtained leave of the confederate in whose ports they are (unless
   they are drawn in by tempests, or force, or danger, or chief
   magistrate), and are not to stay longer than the governor or chief
   magistrate will give them leave.

   "10. It shall be lawful for the subjects and inhabitants of the
   kingdom of Sweden to travel into all the countries of England,
   Scotland, and Ireland, and likewise to pass beyond land or sea, and
   other people that commerce with them, to exercise trade in all kind
   of merchandise, and to bring them thither and carry thence at their
   pleasure. The people of the aforesaid Commonwealth shall enjoy the
   same liberty in the kingdoms, dominions, and territories of the Queen
   and kingdom of Sweden, but upon condition that they shall observe the
   respective laws, ordinances, and particular rights of both nations,
   and of those things which concern the traffic.

   "11. Although it be prohibited by the former articles of this league
   and friendship, that neither of the confederates shall give aid or
   assistance to the enemies of the other, nevertheless it is no way to
   be understood that it is denied to the confederate and his subjects
   and people who is not in war to have commerce and navigation with the
   enemies of that confederate who is in war: provided only in the
   meantime, until it may be more fully agreed upon, all laws hereunto
   pertaining, that none of those commodities called contraband (of
   which a special designation or catalogue shall be agreed upon within
   four months from this time) shall be carried to the enemies of
   either, upon peril that if they be found out by the other
   confederate, they shall be taken as prize without hope of
   restitution.

   "12. But lest this free navigation or passage by land or sea with
   other nations, of the one confederate, his subjects, or people,
   during the war of the other confederate, should be a deceit to the
   other confederate, and may conceal commodities and hostile goods by
   deceit, pretending the name of a friend, for that reason, to remove
   suspicion and fraud, it is thought fit that the ships, waggons,
   merchandises, and men belonging to one of the confederates, in their
   journeys and navigations shall be armed with letters of safe-conduct,
   commonly called passports and certificates, which shall be signed by
   the chief governor or magistrate of the province or city from whence
   they come, and in all them those forms to be observed which shall be
   agreed upon within the space of four months next ensuing; but where
   the merchandises, goods, shipping, and men of one of the
   confederates, or of his subjects or people, in the open sea, straits,
   ports, stations, lands, and places whatsoever, shall be met with by
   the ships of war, public or private, or by the men, subjects, and
   people of the other confederate, or by any means shall be in one
   place together, then exhibiting only their letters of safe-conduct
   and certificates, nothing shall be further required of them, nor
   inquired of them, nor inquiry made as to their goods, shipping, or
   men any further, much less shall any injury, damage, or trouble be
   offered to them, but, as is before signified, they shall be freely
   dismissed to proceed in their intended journey. And in case anything
   be done by either party contrary to the genuine sense of this
   article, either of the confederates shall cause severe punishment to
   be inflicted upon those who shall do contrary hereunto, their
   subjects and people, and shall take care that satisfaction be made
   without delay to the other grieved confederate, or his subjects and
   people, fully of all their losses and expenses.

   "13. Also, if it shall fall out hereafter during this friendship and
   league, that any of the people and subjects of either of the
   confederates shall take part with, or design anything against this
   league, the agreement between the aforesaid confederates shall not
   thereby be interrupted or dissolved, but nevertheless shall continue
   and wholly remain; but those particular persons only who have broken
   this league shall be punished, and right and justice shall be
   administered to those who have received injury, and satisfaction
   shall be made of all damages and wrong within a twelvemonth's time
   after restitution demanded. And if the foresaid delinquents and
   persons guilty of the violence committed shall not yield themselves
   and submit to justice, or within the prefixed time shall refuse to
   make satisfaction, they, whosoever they are, shall at length be
   proclaimed enemies to both States, and their estates, goods, and
   whatsoever things they have shall be confiscated and sold for a just
   and full satisfaction of the wrongs by them done, and those offenders
   and guilty persons, where they shall come into the power of either
   State, shall suffer also deserved punishment according to the nature
   of their offence. But restitution and satisfaction for the losses and
   damages which either of the confederates hath suffered by the other
   during the war between England and the United Provinces of the
   Netherlands shall be made and afforded without delay to the party
   wronged, or to his subjects.

   "14. The present treaty and confederation shall not at all derogate
   from the pre-eminence, right, and dominion whatsoever of either of
   the confederates in their seas, straits, and waters whatsoever; but
   they shall have and retain the same to themselves in the same fulness
   as they have hitherto enjoyed the same, and of right belongs unto
   them.

   "15. Whereas therefore it is the principal purpose of this league
   that the same freedom of navigation and merchandising as is expressed
   in the former articles should be and remain to either confederate,
   his subjects and people, in the Baltic Sea, the Strait of the Sound,
   the Northern, Western, British, and Mediterranean Seas, and in the
   Channel and other seas of Europe, it shall therefore earnestly be
   endeavoured by common counsel, help, and assistance, that the
   foresaid mutual freedom of navigation and commerce shall be
   established and promoted in all the before-mentioned seas, and, if
   occasion require, shall be defended against disturbers who would
   interrupt it, prohibit, hinder, constrain, and force it to their own
   will and the injury of the confederates; and both the confederates
   shall willingly and mutually afford their goodwill and readiness to
   promote the benefit and to take away the prejudice of either of the
   confederates, always saving to either nation the leagues with other
   kingdoms, commonwealths, and nations which have been heretofore made
   and are in force; but neither of the confederates for the future
   shall make any league or alliance with any foreign people or nations
   whatsoever to any prejudice of this present mutual league, without
   the knowledge beforehand and consent of the other confederate; and if
   anything shall hereafter be agreed otherwise, it shall be void, and
   shall wholly give way to this mutual agreement; but of the manner of
   mutual aid or assistance to be given for defence of this league, and
   freedom of commerce and navigation, where it shall be necessary and
   reason shall require it, it shall be specially agreed upon according
   to the circumstances of time and all other things.

   "16. Concerning other advantages to be enjoyed, and rules according
   to which the ships of war shall demean themselves which shall come
   into the ports or stations of the other confederate, of the trade to
   be had in America, also of the commodities of fishing for herrings
   and other fish whatsoever, of the staples and marts to be appointed
   for trade, and of other matters and conditions which may be required
   for the greater evidence of the former articles, as by a particular
   treaty and mutual contract shall be hereafter agreed.

   "17. But those matters which we have agreed in the former articles
   shall forthwith from this moment of time obtain full force and be
   sincerely and rightly observed by either party, and by all who are
   under their obedience, faith, and command. And to the end that for
   the time to come they may be the more established, and remain firm as
   well by her Royal Majesty as also by the Lord Protector of the
   Commonwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland, and the territories
   thereunto belonging, in the name of his Highness and the said
   Commonwealth, these presents, with the proper subscriptions of the
   hands of her Majesty and of his Highness, shall be subscribed,
   signed, and ratified.

   "In confirmation of all these things which are above written, and for
   sufficient testimony thereof that on the part of her Royal Majesty
   our most clement Lady they shall be most religiously and fully
   observed, and be ratified within the time prefixed, we have
   subscribed these presents with our proper hands, and armed them with
   our seals. Dated at Upsal, the 11th day of April, in the year 1654.

                                       "AXEL OXENSTIERN,
                                        "ERIC OXENSTIERN AXELIUS."

MAY.

May 1, 1654.

[SN: Preparations for departure.]

Lagerfeldt, Berkman, and the Syndic of Gothenburg, after dinner with Whitelocke, discoursed
and advised him touching his departure. Lagerfeldt said he believed the Queen would give Whitelocke
audience on Friday next, before which time her presents would not be ready for Whitelocke and
his company; he said also, that he heard the Prince intended to be in this town within a few
days, and if it should be so, then it would be better for Whitelocke to stay here, and expect
his coming hither to salute him here, than to go out of his way so far as to the Prince's Court;
in which matter Whitelocke said he would entreat the Queen's advice. Lagerfeldt said further,
that the Queen had commanded some copper to be brought to Stockholm, and to be put aboard the
ship where Whitelocke was to be embarked, or in some other ship as he should appoint, it being
a present intended for him by the Queen.

The Syndic acquainted Whitelocke that the city of Gothenburg would send into England, to prepare
there for an accord concerning traffic between the English merchants and that town, wherein
they hoped to have the assistance of Whitelocke at his return to England, wherein he promised
his advice and furtherance.

A Danish gentleman of quality and experience gave a visit to Whitelocke, advised him the way
of his journey, and gave him good information touching Denmark, to be communicated to the Protector,
as that the English merchants might pass the Sound without paying any tax, if the Protector
would insist upon it. Whitelocke, in drollery, asked him why he would discover these things
to a stranger, which turn so much to the prejudice of his own country. He answered that he
did this to testify his respects to the Protector, and that he did not betray his country,
but his country had betrayed him; and that was his country where he breathed and had present
nourishment.[184]

Mr. Woolfeldt visited Whitelocke, and, among other discourses, related to him the story of
this gentleman and his lady, which was to this effect, by his and others' relation:--

[SN: Woolfeldt's history.]

    This gentleman was of a noble family and extraction in Denmark, grew
    into great favour with the last King, whose daughter by a second
    wife he married; and the present King, her brother, made him Viceroy
    of Norway, Governor of the Isle of Zealand and of the Sound, and a
    Senator of the kingdom and Great Master of Denmark; and he had been
    employed thirteen times as an ambassador.

    "His lady, the daughter and sister of a king, was of excellent
    comeliness of person and behaviour, humbly knowing her distance, of
    a sweet disposition, and of rare parts, both of mind and body;
    especially deserving praise for her high and entire affection to her
    husband, who, notwithstanding his great parts and abilities, and the
    many perils he had undergone in the service of his king and country,
    yet after all, by the whisperings and false suggestions of
    backbiters, his enemies, was traduced to the King for being too much
    a friend to the people's liberty, and an opposer of the King's
    absolute power; but beyond all this (as some gave it out), that he
    was too familiar with one of the King's mistresses; so it was that
    the King took high displeasure against him. Parasites took the
    occasion to please the King by invectives against one under a cloud;
    his parts attracted envy, and his merits were too great for any
    other recompense but his own ruin.

    "To avoid the King's wrath and his enemies' malice, and to preserve
    his life, which was aimed to be taken away with his fortune, he was
    compelled to fly from his country and seek his security in foreign
    parts. His lady, though a tender, modest woman,--though the sister
    of the King regnant, high in his favour and the interest of her
    alliance; though pressingly enticed to cast off her affection to her
    husband; though unacquainted with any hardships,--yet so entire was
    her conjugal love and piety, that, rather than part with her
    husband, she would leave all her relations and pleasures of a court
    and her dear country, and put herself, though with child, into the
    disguise of a page, to attend him in his flight as his servant.

    "It may be imagined that such a servant was not unkindly used; but
    the greatest trouble was, that being on shipboard to cross the
    Baltic Sea, the poor page whispered the master that she had a
    longing desire to some cherries which she saw in the town as they
    came to the ship. Here was the difficulty: if her lord did not go on
    shore and procure some cherries for the page, it might cost her
    life; if he did go on shore, and in the meantime the ship should go
    off, he and his page would be parted, and his own life endangered.
    It was reason and honour that persuaded him rather to hazard his own
    than such a page's life; therefore, having effectually dealt with
    the master of the ship for a little stay, he soon found out a
    pretence to go on shore, and neglected not to hasten back again with
    his provision of cherries, and to find out a way of distributing a
    large share of them to her that longed for them. After which they
    happily set sail and arrived in Sweden, where, by articles between
    the two Crowns, those in his condition have sanctuary and
    protection."

In the afternoon Whitelocke went to Court, where he met with Canterstein, who excused himself
that he had not yet brought to Whitelocke the Queen's letters of full power to her Commissioners,
which he said the Queen had signed two days before, and that he had been sick, otherwise he
had delivered them before this time. Whitelocke asked him if his recredentials were prepared.
He said they were ready for the Queen to sign when she pleased, and that nothing in his charge
concerning Whitelocke should receive any delay by his occasion. Whitelocke gave him thanks
for his care, and promised his remuneration.

[SN: Whitelocke entertains the Queen on May-day.]

This being May-day, Whitelocke, according to the invitation he had made to the Queen, put her
in mind of it, that, as she was his mistress, and this May-day, he was, by the custom of England,
to wait upon her to take the air, and to treat her with some little collation, as her servant.
The Queen said the weather was very cold, yet she was very willing to bear him company after
the English mode. With the Queen were Woolfeldt, Tott, and five of her ladies. Whitelocke brought
them to his collation, which he had commanded his servants to prepare in the best manner they
could, and altogether after the English fashion.

At the table with the Queen sat "la Belle Comtesse," the Countess Gabrielle Oxenstiern, Woolfeldt,
Tott, and Whitelocke; the other ladies sat in another room. Their meat was such fowl as could
be gotten, dressed after the English fashion and with English sauces, creams, puddings, custards,
tarts, tansies, English apples, bon chrétien pears, cheese, butter, neats' tongues, potted
venison, and sweetmeats brought out of England, as his sack and claret also was. His beer was
also brewed and his bread made by his own servants in his house, after the English manner;
and the Queen and her company seemed highly pleased with this treatment. Some of her company
said she did eat and drink more at it than she used to do in three or four days at her own table.

The entertainment was as full and noble as the place would afford and as Whitelocke could make
it, and so well ordered and contrived that the Queen said she had never seen any like it. She
was pleased so far to play the good housewife as to inquire how the butter could be so fresh
and sweet, and yet brought out of England. Whitelocke, from his cooks, satisfied her Majesty's
inquiry, that they put the salt butter into milk, where it lay all night, and the next day
it would eat fresh and sweet as this did, and any butter new made, and commended her Majesty's
good housewifery; who, to express her contentment in this collation, was full of pleasantness
and gaiety of spirit, both in supper-time and afterwards. Among other frolics, she commanded
Whitelocke to teach her ladies the English salutation, which, after some pretty defences, their
lips obeyed, and Whitelocke most readily. She highly commended Whitelocke's music of the trumpets,
which sounded all supper-time; and her discourse was all of mirth and drollery, wherein Whitelocke
endeavoured to answer her, and the rest of the company did their parts.

It was late before she returned to the castle, whither Whitelocke waited on her; and she discoursed
a little with him about his business and the time of his audience, and gave him many thanks
for his noble treatment of her and her company.

May 2, 1654.

[SN: The Swedish full powers.]

Whitelocke sent to the master of the ceremonies to know if he had desired a time for his last
audience, who promised to do it.

Canterstein brought to Whitelocke the Queen's letters of full power to her Commissioners, under
her hand and the great seal of Sweden, which were of this tenour.[188] Having received this
commission, Whitelocke delivered to Canterstein his commission under the Great Seal of England,
and the copy of his new instructions from the Protector, except what was secret in them.

Canterstein, the master of the ceremonies, and Monsieur Bloome, were frolic at dinner with
Whitelocke, and made many caresses to him, and extolled the Chancellor's care and high respect
to Whitelocke, in bringing his treaty to so good an issue; and after dinner Bloome told Whitelocke
that the Chancellor had advised the Queen to make a noble present to Whitelocke, which was
not yet ready, and that had retarded his last audience. The master of the ceremonies, from
the Queen, desired Whitelocke to have a little patience for a few days; that she expected the
arrival of the Prince within six or seven days in this town, by which means Whitelocke would
have a fair opportunity to salute him here, without further trouble; and that the Queen would
give him audience within two days before the arrival of the Prince, and so he should receive
no disturbance in his voyage. Whitelocke saw no other remedy for this but patience.

May 3, 1654.

[SN: The Guinea question.]

Whitelocke visited Grave Eric. They fell into discourse, among other things, touching Guinea,
to this effect:--

Whitelocke. It is requisite that we come to some conclusion about the business of Guinea.

Grave Eric. I think it fit; and for your further information, here is the answer in writing
of the Swedes who are concerned therein unto the complaints of the English company in that
business.

Wh. Will you leave the writing with me?

Gr. Eric. I shall send you a copy of it.

Wh. The complaints of the English have been proved by depositions of witnesses.

Gr. Eric. Those depositions were taken in the absence of the other party; and, if you please,
witnesses may be produced here on the part of the Swedes.

Wh. Witnesses produced here will be also in the absence of the other party, though I had leisure
and commission to examine them on oath.

Gr. Eric. You may see in this map of Guinea how the plantations of the Swedes, English, and
Hollanders do lie, and are mingled and near to one another.

Wh. The King of that place made a grant to the English, for them only to dwell and traffic
in that country; and the Swedes afterwards drove the English, by force, out of their fortifications.

Gr. Eric. The English had no fortifications there; all the fort they had was a little lodge
with two rooms only in it, out of which the Swedes did not force them; and both the Hollanders
and Swedes were planted in this place before any grant made to the English, and the Swedes
had a grant from the same King, whereof this is a copy.

Wh. It will be material to compare the dates of these two grants: if that to the English was
first, then the other to the Swedes was of no validity; and the like of the contrary. If you
will favour me with a copy of the grant made to the Swedes, I will compare it with that made
to the English, and return it to you.

Gr. Eric. You shall command it.

Mr. Woolfeldt, being visited by Whitelocke, told him that the Queen was extremely pleased with
his treatment of her. Whitelocke excused the meanness of it for her Majesty. Woolfeldt replied,
that both the Queen and all the company esteemed it as the handsomest and noblest that they
ever saw; and the Queen, after that, would drink no other wine but Whitelocke's, and kindly
accepted the neats' tongues, potted venison, and other cates which, upon her commendation of
them, Whitelocke sent unto her Majesty. Woolfeldt showed a paper of consequence written by
himself in Spanish, and he read it in French to Whitelocke, being perfect in those and other
languages. He said, that whatsoever he wrote he did it in a foreign language, to continue the
exercise of them. The paper showed how the English might be freed from paying tolls at the
Sound. Whitelocke entreated a copy of this paper in French, which Woolfeldt promised.

A great quantity of snow fell and covered the houses and fields, and was hard frozen: a matter
at this time strange to the English, but ordinary here.

May 4, 1654.

Mr. Boteler, a Scotsman, confidently reported great news to the disparagement of the affairs
of England, that the Highlanders of Scotland had given a great defeat to the English and killed
five hundred of them, which news was soon confuted by Whitelocke.

[SN: A literary dinner party.]

The Senator Vanderlin, and his brother the master of the ceremonies; Dr. Loccenius, a civilian,
Keeper of the Library in this University; another gentleman, Professor of Eloquence here; Mr.
Ravius, Professor of the Eastern tongues; and a French gentleman, captain of one of the companies
of Guards, doing Whitelocke the honour to dine with him, had very learned discourse, particularly
of languages and of the affinity between the Swedish, English, Danish, and High Dutch tongues,
whereof they gave many instances, and Whitelocke was able to add to them. The professors discoursed
only in Latin, as most proper for them; the others in French; and they hold it a discourtesy
if a man be not answered in the same language which he speaks. They also extolled the Prince
and the Protector; and the Senator said that there was not any person who came so near to the
eminency and grandeur of the Protector as the Prince of Sweden did.

[SN: The Dutch Resident salutes Whitelocke on the peace.]

The company being gone, Whitelocke went to the accustomed place, the great wood, to take the
air; and as he was walking in the broad way there, he perceived the coach of the Dutch Resident
coming towards him; and perceiving the English Ambassador to be walking there, the Resident
alighted out of his coach and came on foot towards Whitelocke. Whether he came after Whitelocke
in a handsome design or contrivance for their first salutation, or that it was by accident,
Whitelocke did not examine, but thought fit to answer the civility of the Resident by walking
back towards him to meet him.

They saluted each other and their company with great respect. The Resident began the compliment
to Whitelocke in French, telling him that he was very glad of the opportunity to have the happiness
to salute Whitelocke, which he would not neglect to do, perceiving him in this place; and that
he would take the first occasion to do himself the honour to visit Whitelocke at his house.
Whitelocke answered, that the Resident should be very welcome when he pleased to do that honour
to Whitelocke as to bestow a visit on him; and that he was also very glad of the opportunity
which had now presented itself, whereby he had the contentment of being acquainted with the
Resident. They fell into general discourses, and, among the rest, of the conclusion and ratification
of the treaty between the two Commonwealths, and of the advantage which thereby would arise
to both of them, and to the Protestant party.[193]

As they were walking together the Queen passed by them, being in that wood also to take the
air. When she came near, she saluted them with great respect, and spake to them aloud, "Je
suis ravie de vous voir ensemble, je vois que la paix est faite." And so the Queen went on
her way, and Whitelocke took leave of the Resident.

[SN: A despatch from Thurloe.]

At his return to his house Whitelocke found his packet from England ready to entertain him,
and Thurloe's letter was this:--

    "My Lord,

    "Your letter of the 10th of March arrived here this morning, whereby
    you are pleased to give a very particular and exact account of all
    proceedings in this treaty you are upon; I presently communicated
    the contents thereof to his Highness and the Council, with whom he
    was willing to advise, and thereupon he was pleased to send you the
    instructions which your Excellence will receive herewith, which are
    fully agreeable to your own desire in that behalf. The former
    instructions had come sooner, if the issue of the Dutch treaty had
    been sooner known; now, through the blessing of God, it is fully
    concluded, and your Excellence will receive herewith the articles,
    as they are signed by the Commissioners of his Highness and the
    Lords Ambassadors of the United Provinces. They signed them upon
    Wednesday, at night, and the next morning the ambassadors sent them
    away to be ratified by their superiors, which they will do without
    difficulty or scruple, as we believe.

    "Your Excellence will see by those articles made with the Dutch,
    that the second and fifth article is omitted out of your
    instructions; that these two treaties will very well stand together;
    and for the notice to be given to the Dutch, it is clear to me that
    it will not be necessary, in respect that this treaty was not only
    begun, but as good as finished, before the conclusion with the
    Dutch.

    "And for the fourth article, and the proviso your Excellence is
    pleased to send, that being so clearly within the substance of your
    former instructions, I thought it needless to add any instruction
    about it now.

    "His Highness in the beginning of this week was pleased to send for
    the Great Seal, and kept it in his own custody two days, and now
    hath disposed it unto your Excellence, Sir Thomas Widdrington, and
    your confrater my Lord Lisle. His Highness is very much resolved
    upon a good and solid reformation of the law, and proceedings in the
    Courts of Equity and Laws: the matter of law he hath committed unto
    Mr. Justice Hale and Mr. John Vaughan; the reformation of the
    Chancery to my Lord Widdrington, Mr. Attorney-General, and Mr.
    Chute,--being resolved to give the learned of the robe the honour of
    reforming their own profession, and hopes that God will give them
    hearts to do it; and, that no time may be lost, the next term is
    adjourned.

    "The French Ambassador desires very much to get a despatch of his
    business. His Highness hath at length appointed him commissioners to
    treat, but no progress hath been yet made thereupon. The speech that
    he made at his first audience your Excellence will receive by this.

    "The Portugal presseth much now to come to an agreement also, and to
    close the treaty which hath hanged so long; and so doth the
    Spaniard.

    "I pray for your Excellence's safe return home and rest.

                  "Your Excellence's humble servant,
                                                    "JO. THURLOE.
    "April 7th, 1654."

Whitelocke's new instructions from the Protector:

    "O. P.

    "Additional Instructions to my Lord Whitelocke, our Ambassador
    Extraordinary to her Majesty the Queen of Sweden.

    "Having considered the particular account you have given by your
    letters weekly of your negotiation in Sweden, and the delay which
    hath been on the part of that Court in the treaty you are upon, we
    might well have given you positive orders for your speedy return.

    "But observing that the letters and despatches between this and
    Sweden are a month in their way, and not knowing how affairs may
    alter in that time with you, and the pretence of their delay--to
    wit, the uncertainty of the issue of the treaty between us and the
    United Provinces--being removed, as you will see by these letters,
    which will assure you of the full conclusion thereof, we have
    thought it more convenient to leave you a latitude in that
    particular, and to give you liberty (as we do hereby) to return home
    at such time as you shall find it for the service of the
    Commonwealth.

    "2. Whereas, by your letter of the 10th of March, 1654, you have
    represented the particular debates which you have had upon all the
    articles of the treaty, and the exceptions taken by the Queen upon
    the second, fifth, and seventh articles, you are hereby authorized
    to omit the second and fifth articles out of the treaty, as also the
    words 'bona à suis cujusque inimicis direpta' out of the seventh
    article, if the Queen shall still insist thereupon; and as for the
    comprehending the Dutch in this treaty with the Queen of Sweden,
    notice shall be given from hence, if it shall be found necessary.

    "3. You have hereby power to agree with the Queen of Sweden that she
    and her subjects may fish freely for herrings in the seas of this
    Commonwealth, paying the recognition of the tenth herring, or for a
    lesser recognition, so as it be not less than the twentieth herring,
    or the value thereof in money.

    "Whitehall, 7th April, 1654."

The Order of the Council touching the Great Seal sent by Thurloe was this. The title of the
order was thus:--

[SN: Whitelocke, Widdrington, and Lisle reappointed of the Great Seal.]

    "Order of the Council approving of the Commissioners of the Great
    Seal.

                                "Tuesday, 4th April, 1654.

    "AT THE COUNCIL AT WHITEHALL:

    "Resolved, That the Council doth approve of the Lord Ambassador
    Whitelocke to be one of the Lords Commissioners of the Great Seal.

    "By the command of his Highness Mr. Serjeant Widdrington and Mr.
    Lisle were called in, and being come to the table, his Highness
    declared that the Lord Ambassador Whitelocke and themselves had been
    nominated by his Highness, and approved by the Council, to be
    Commissioners for the Great Seal; and his Highness did deliver unto
    the said Mr. Serjeant Widdrington and Mr. Lisle the said Great Seal;
    and then the oath appointed by the ordinance was read by the Clerk
    of the Council, and was taken by each of them.

                                               "Ex^r W. JESSOP,
                                           "Clerk of the Council."

The Guinea Company sent by this packet a letter to Whitelocke of thanks for his care of their
business, and that they could not buy the Swedes' interest in Guinea, and referred the whole
matter wholly to Whitelocke.

The examinations in the Court of Admiralty touching the ship 'Charity,' enclosed in Thurloe's
letters, made it appear that the Swedes had not injury done them, as they complained, and that
the goods belonged to Hollanders, and not to the Swedes; but only coloured by the Hollanders
under the name of Swedish ship and goods, though they were not so. Whitelocke made use of these
examinations as he saw cause, and found that Martin Thysen had an interest in these goods.

[SN: Reception of the French Ambassador in London.]

The enclosed speech of the French Ambassador to the Protector was full of compliment, giving
him the title of "Serene Altesse," and as much as could be well offered by the French, seeming
to desire a league and amity with the Protector. The Ambassador was received with great state
and solemnity, answerable to the honour of his master the King of France, with whom the Protector
had a good mind to close at this time, the rather to frustrate the hopes of the King of Scots
of assistance from thence, where he was now entertained, caressed, and made believe he should
have all aid and furtherance for his restitution, which the Protector sought to prevent by
the interest of the Cardinal Mazarin, whose creature this Ambassador was.

May 5, 1654.

[SN: The Queen's presents to Whitelocke and his suite.]

Lagerfeldt acquainted Whitelocke that the Queen intended to gratify him with a gift of as great
value as had been bestowed upon any ambassador before; and that she having received from Whitelocke
many brave horses and many native goods of England, and Whitelocke having undertaken, at his
return to England, to provide for her Majesty several other commodities, she held it reasonable
to requite him with some commodities of this country, if Whitelocke thought fit to accept of
them. Whitelocke answered that it did not become him to prescribe bounds to her Majesty's favour,
but only to refer himself to the Queen's judgement herein. Lagerfeldt replied that the Queen
intended to bestow her gift upon him in copper, and gave order that it should be put aboard
a ship, to be consigned by him to some of his friends at London, or as he pleased to dispose it.

Whitelocke desired of Lagerfeldt that although the articles were signed, that yet he in the
instrument might prefix to the title these words "Serenissimi ac Celsissimi Domini," which
words Whitelocke did observe to be in the Protector's title to the Dutch articles, which was
not known to Whitelocke before the articles were signed here. Lagerfeldt promised to acquaint
the Chancellor herewith, and to bring his answer.

Whitelocke waited upon the Queen, and acquainted her with his news from England, and of the
consummation of the treaty of peace between England and the Dutch, whereof she said she was
very glad, and thanked Whitelocke for his news. He then entreated her Majesty to appoint a
day for his audience to take his leave of her Majesty, which she told him should be shortly
done; then she desired his company with her in her coach, to take the air. He waited on her,
and besides there was in the coach Grave Tott, Grave Vandone, and the Countess Christina Oxenstiern.
The Queen was not very pleasant, but entertained some little discourses, not much of business;
and after a short tour, returning to the castle, retired into her chamber, and Whitelocke to
his lodging.

May 6, 1654.

Lagerfeldt returned answer to Whitelocke, of his motion to insert the words "Serenissimi ac
Celsissimi Domini" into the Protector's title, that he had acquainted the Chancellor with it,
who also had communicated it to her Majesty, and she willingly assented thereunto; and it was
inserted accordingly. He brought with him Monsieur Carloe, Governor of the Swedish Company
for Guinea, with whom Whitelocke had much discourse upon the same points as he had before with
Grave Eric; and Carloe denied all that the English merchants had affirmed, and he continued
before and after dinner very obstinate in it.

Secretary Canterstein brought to Whitelocke the Queen's letters of the grant of two hundred
ship-pound of copper for a present to him, which letters were thus.[200]

In the afternoon the master of the ceremonies came to Whitelocke's house, and presented to
him, from the Queen, a handsome jewel, which was a case of gold, fairly enamelled, and having
in the midst of it the picture of the Queen, done to the life, and very like her. It was set
round about with twelve large diamonds, and several small diamonds between the great ones.
He told Whitelocke that, by command of her Majesty, he presented her picture to him; that she
was sorry it was not made up so as might have been worthy of his reception; but she desired,
if he pleased, that he would do her the honour to wear it for her sake, and to accept the picture
in memory of the friend that sent it. Whitelocke answered that the Queen was pleased to bestow
a great honour upon him in this noble testimony of her favour to him, of which he acknowledged
himself altogether unworthy; but her Majesty's opinion was otherwise, as appeared by such a
present as this. He did with all thankfulness accept it, and should with great contentment
give himself occasion, by the honour of wearing it, to remember the more often her Majesty
and her favours to him, her servant, for which he desired the master to present his humble
thanks unto her Majesty.

After he had been with Whitelocke, the master went to Whitelocke's two sons, and in the Queen's
name presented to each of them a chain of gold of five links, and at the end of the chain a
medal of gold of the Queen's picture; the chains and medals were valued at four hundred ducats
apiece.

Then he presented, in the Queen's name, to Mr. Stapleton, Mr. Ingelo, and Mr. De la Marche,
to each of them a chain of gold of three links, with a medal of gold of the Queen's picture
at the end of each chain; the chains and medals were valued at about a hundred and sixty ducats
apiece. To Mr. Walker he presented a chain and medal of gold of three links, shorter than the
rest, of about the value of a hundred and thirty ducats; to Captain Crispe and to Mr. Swift,
to each of them a chain of gold of two links, with a medal of gold to each of them, of about
the value of a hundred ducats apiece.

[SN: Disputes caused by the Queen's presents.]

Walker the steward, and Stapleton, gentleman of the horse to Whitelocke, were discontented,
because their chains were not of four links apiece; and they and others took exceptions because
their chains were not so good and valuable as those given to Potley and Beake,--so seditious
a thing is gold. But Whitelocke endeavoured to satisfy them by the reasons why the chains of
Potley and Beake were better than theirs: the one having been an ancient servant of this Crown,
and the other being commander of the guards of the Protector; and nothing was due to them,
but only the Queen's free gift and bounty was in all of them, and therefore not to be excepted
against by any of them. Notwithstanding this admonition, they met and discoursed together in
discontent about this business, and gave thereby occasion of displeasure to Whitelocke.

Whitelocke being in the mood to take the air, the Holland Resident came thither, where they
walked and discoursed together; and in their return the Resident and two of his gentlemen,
Vorstius and another, went in Whitelocke's coach, who brought the Resident to his lodging,
and there had a civil treatment, and found by discourse that the Resident was not well satisfied
with his being in this Court. Whitelocke did not hitherto make a visit to any person since
he had received his presents from the Queen, after which, in ceremony, he must first visit
her Majesty to give her thanks, and then he is at liberty to visit others.

May 7, 1654.

The Lord's Day.--Monsieur Bloome, and Mr. De Geeres, the rich merchant of Sweden, after dinner
with Whitelocke, discoursed much about matters not so proper for the day. Walker and Stapleton
attending Whitelocke and walking in the evening, he again spake to them about their presents
as formerly; but found Stapleton stiff in his opinion, and to intend to send back his present
to the master of the ceremonies as refusing it; but Whitelocke required him not to do so, lest
it should be taken as an affront to Whitelocke and to the Protector himself, as well as a disdaining
of the Queen's present, which was her Majesty's free gift without any obligation.

May 8, 1654.

[SN: Warrant for the copper.]

The warrant formerly inserted was sent to the officers of the Treasury, who thereupon made
their order to the under-officers for the delivery of the copper accordingly, which order was
brought to Whitelocke in the Swedish language.

[SN: The Guinea case.]

The master of the ceremonies came to Whitelocke to inform him that the Queen had appointed
Wednesday next, the 10th of this month, for his last audience to take his leave. Whitelocke
said he was sorry it could not be sooner. The master excused it by reason of the great affairs
of the Queen upon the meeting of the Ricksdag. Grave Eric and Lagerfeldt came to Whitelocke
and debated with him the business of Guinea.

Grave Eric. I shall read to you this paper, which is in Latin and in French,--an answer to
the complaints of the English, and denies all their allegations.

Whitelocke. The allegations of the English are proved by oath; here are the depositions.

Gr. Eric. The answers of the Swedes are upon oath likewise.

Wh. But the English are in the affirmative.

Gr. Eric. The Swedes have like complaints against the English, which are to be proved by oath
in the affirmative also; and in such case the parties or their procurators must appear before
the ordinary and competent judges, which will require a great deal of time; but we being to
treat with you as an Ambassador, we propose that there may be an abolition of all past injuries
of the one side and the other, and that there may be an agreement and friendship, and free
trade there for the future.

Wh. This will be very proper for the time to come, but it will be no satisfaction for the injuries
already done. I have no power from the Protector or Company of English Merchants to make any
such agreement; but for what concerns the public, I can make an accord with you, and the satisfaction
of damages for wrongs past may be remitted to the determination of the Commissioners.

Gr. Eric. I shall show you a project in writing, that all the houses and possessions of the
one part and the other may continue in the same estate for the time to come as they are in
at present.

Wh. To agree to this were to give up the right of the English merchants, and to acknowledge
that they have no cause of complaint; whereas I demand in justice a reparation and satisfaction
for those injuries whereof they complain.

Gr. Eric. Then the business must be decided before the judges, witnesses on both sides must
be heard, and we must insist upon it that the houses and possessions continue in the same estate
as they now are.

Wh. You must pardon me that I cannot assent hereunto.

Thus their debate broke off.

Monsieur Ravius came to Whitelocke in the name of the Bishop of Stregnes, to acquaint him that
if he had any English horses which he would bestow upon the Prince, that they would be very
acceptable to him, and that Whitelocke would very much gratify himself thereby. Whitelocke
said that his saddle-horses were not worth the presenting to his Royal Highness, the best of
them being already given away; but he had a set of coach-horses which he intended to reserve
and to present unto the Prince, if he pleased to accept them. Ravius said they would be very
acceptable to him.

May 9, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke compliments the Danish minister on the peace.]

The King of Denmark being included in the treaty between England and the Dutch, and so become
a friend, Whitelocke was advised to send first a compliment to the Danish Ambassador now residing
in this Court; which, when Whitelocke doubted lest thereby he might diminish the honour of
England by sending to the Dane before the Dane had first sent to him, the master of the ceremonies
and others instructed him that it was the constant custom for the ambassador that comes last
to send first a compliment to him that had been in the Court before; whereupon Whitelocke did
send one of his gentlemen to the Danish Ambassador, to visit and compliment him.

Now the secretary of the Ambassador of Denmark came to Whitelocke, in the name of his lord,
to give him thanks for the honour he had done him in sending one of his servants to salute
him, and to congratulate the good news of the agreement between England and the Dutch, wherein
the King his master was comprised. The secretary said that the confirmation thereof was also
come to his lord by the way of Holland and of Denmark, for which news his Lordship was very
joyful, and would himself have given a visit to Whitelocke but that his want of health detained
him in his lodging. Whitelocke told the secretary that he was very sorry for his lord's indisposition
of health, and wished his good recovery; that he was heartily glad of the news which gave him
occasion to send to his lord to congratulate with him, and that he would take an opportunity
to visit him in person when it might be without prejudice to his Excellence's health.

Berkman came to Whitelocke to give him an account of a message wherein he had employed Berkman
to the Marshal Wrangel, to desire him, in Whitelocke's name, that the ship appointed to transport
him might fall down from Stockholm to the Dollars, for Whitelocke to come on board her there,
which would save him a hundred miles by sea from Stockholm thither, there being a nearer way
by a third-part from Stockholm to the Dollars for boats to pass. Berkman said he found Wrangel
very civil, and ready to do what Whitelocke should desire of him for his accommodation, and
that he had ordered the ship forthwith to fall down to the Dollars; for which Whitelocke desired
Monsieur Berkman to return his thanks to the Marshal.

The Ricks-Admiral sent to Whitelocke, expressing much civility and readiness to serve him,
and desired to know if one ship would be sufficient for his transportation; that, if he pleased,
there should be more provided for him. Whitelocke returned thanks, and that he hoped he should
not have occasion to put them to the trouble of more ships for his transportation than that
already ordered for him.

[SN: Whitelocke invited to the ceremony of abdication.]

The master of the ceremonies came to Whitelocke, by the Queen's command, to know if he and
his company pleased to see the meeting of the Ricksdag; that he had provided a place for that
purpose, where they might be unknown and unseen, and yet see all the ceremony and hear all
the harangues; that if Whitelocke would see it, the master would call him at eight o'clock
in the morning and wait upon him to the place; but he said that the Danish Ambassador had some
thoughts of being there also, and if he came first to the place he would take the uppermost
seat. Whitelocke then desired the master to call him early enough that he might be there first,
because he should hardly permit the Danish Ambassador to sit above him. The master said he
would be sure to call Whitelocke early enough, but he believed that the Danish Ambassador would
not be there because of his ill health.

The master told Whitelocke that Monsieur Bloome had informed him that some of Whitelocke's
gentlemen took exceptions to the presents sent them by the Queen. He protested, upon his soul
and his honour, that he had no hand in the disposing of these presents, but that all was done
by the officers of the Chamber of Accounts, and that the Queen did not meddle with it; but
when he showed her a catalogue of the officers of Whitelocke's house, she marked them how she
would have the presents bestowed; that how the matter might be altered afterwards he was wholly
ignorant, and that he had order, under the hands of the officers, to make the distribution
as he had done; and he hoped none of the gentlemen would be offended with him, who had done
nothing but as he was ordered by those over him. Whitelocke told him that, in so great a family
as his was, it would be difficult to please every one; that these presents were the Queen's
favours, which she might distribute as she pleased, and every one ought to be contented therewith;
that some of his company had discoursed hereof more than belonged to them, but that he would
take order in it himself. They had also this further discourse:--

Whitelocke. Do you expect the arrival of the Prince here on Friday next?

Mast. Cer. The Queen is not assured of his arrival that day, but she will go out on horseback,
accompanied with all her nobility, to meet him.

Wh. Will it be expected that I go out likewise to meet him?

Mast. Cer. That cannot be, because it will be after your last audience, and when you have taken
your leave of the Queen, so that you cannot then appear in public nor in any public action,
because it will be to present yourself before those of whom you had taken your leave before.

Wh. But after my last audience I may in private see the Queen?

Mast. Cer. Yes, for that is but a particular visit; and so you may visit any of your friends
after your last audience.

Wh. I intend likewise to salute the Prince after my last audience.

Mast. Cer. You may do it, because it will be but a particular visit.

Wh. I hope his Royal Highness will treat me with the same civility and respect as he useth
to any other ambassador.

Mast. Cer. That he will infallibly do. Monsieur Chanut, the French Ambassador, when he was
in this Court, did always give the right hand to the Prince after the proposal had been made
of declaring him Prince-heritier of the crown, though the Ricksdag had not then confirmed it.
But Chanut made difficulty of it at the Prince's lodging, because he was not the son of a king,
yet afterwards he did it both there and elsewhere.

Wh. There is more reason for me now to do it, because the proposal is to be made of investing
him with the Crown. What was the manner of the Prince's reception of Chanut, where did he meet
Chanut at his coming, and how far did he go with him at his taking leave?

Mast. Cer. The Prince received Chanut at the door of the chamber where he had his audience;
and when the Ambassador went away, the Prince brought him to the same place and no further;
and I believe he will give the same respect to your Excellence, and as much to you as to any
public minister.

Wh. I can desire no more.

May 10, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke attends a wedding at Court.]

Lagerfeldt came to Whitelocke and acquainted him that there was a special article to be agreed
upon touching the business of Guinea, which the Queen and the Chancellor were willing might
proceed for the despatch of Whitelocke, and that Grave Eric would have come to him about it,
but that he was ill and had taken physic. He told Whitelocke that the Queen said he might have
his last audience that day if he pleased; but if he would be present at the solemnity of the
nuptials which were this evening to be celebrated at Court between the Baron Horne and the
Lady Sparre, and if he desired to see the assembling of the Ricksdag tomorrow, then it would
be requisite to defer his audience till Friday, because when he had taken his leave of the
Queen it would not be proper for him afterwards to appear in public. Whitelocke said he had
rather be dismissed than to be present at any solemnities; that her Majesty had taken him captive
by her noble presents, so that it was not fit for him to come abroad in public. He asked Lagerfeldt
if the Prince would be here on Friday next; if so, then it would not be convenient to have
his audience put off to that day. Lagerfeldt said he doubted that the Prince would not be here
so soon.

An officer on horseback, accompanied with several other horsemen, with four kettle-drums and
eight or ten trumpets beating and sounding before them, made proclamation in several parts
of the town that all persons who were summoned to appear at the Ricksdag should give their
attendance at the place appointed in the Queen's castle of Upsal tomorrow by eight o'clock
in the morning, upon pain of half-a-dollar mulcted for every default.

The master of the ceremonies came to Whitelocke from the Queen, and acquainted him to the same
effect as Lagerfeldt had done, touching his last audience. The master also, by the Queen's
command, invited Whitelocke to the wedding at Court this night; and if he pleased to see the
manner of the assembling of the Ricksdag, that he had order to take the care of it, and that
it would be no hindrance to his going away, because the Prince did not come hither till Tuesday
next. Whitelocke said he was sorry that the Prince would come no sooner to this place, but
since it was the pleasure of the Queen that he should wait upon her this evening, he would
obey her commands; and as to the time of his audience, he submitted to her pleasure.

The Ricks-Admiral sent again to Whitelocke, to know if he would have any more ships provided
for his transportation. Whitelocke returned his thanks, and that he intended not to take any
of his horses with him, and therefore should not need any more ships than were already ordered.

Studely, one of Whitelocke's servants, returned to him from Stockholm with an account that
the ship appointed for his transportation was not yet ready, which retarded his voyage to his
trouble.

Between ten and eleven o'clock at night the master of the ceremonies came to Whitelocke's house,
with one of the Queen's coaches, to bring him to the wedding at Court. He desired Whitelocke's
two sons to go into that coach, who excused themselves that they had not been in that coach
formerly. The master said that when one went to an audience there were certain formalities
to be observed, but going to a wedding was another thing; that now the Queen had sent her coach
for Whitelocke as her guest, and it was proper for his sons to go with him. Whitelocke wished
them to observe the direction of the master, who governed in these things.

They went to the bridegroom's house, where were many of his friends; his uncle the Ricks-Admiral,
Marshal Wrangel, and other senators and noblemen. As soon as Whitelocke alighted out of the
coach, the bridegroom's brother was there to receive him and bid him welcome; near the door
the bridegroom met him, and gave him thanks for the favour in honouring his wedding with his
presence. Whitelocke said he was very ready to testify his respects to the nobility of this
country, and particularly to himself, and took it for an honour to be invited into such company.

Whitelocke was instructed by the master of the ceremonies, that by the custom of this country
the bridegroom takes place of the King, and the bride of the Queen, during the solemnities
of the wedding; accordingly Whitelocke gave the right hand to the bridegroom.

After a little discourse they took their coaches;--first the gentlemen, then the Lords, then
the Senators, then the Ricks-Admiral and Senator Bundt, who, being next of kin, was to give
the bride in marriage; after Bundt went Whitelocke, and after him the bridegroom, who had precedence
in the Queen's coach, which went last, and Whitelocke next before it, and the other coaches
in their order; the bridegroom's coach last of all, as the best place. The like order they
observed in their going in the castle. At the head of the stairs the master of the ceremonies
met them, and brought them to the presence-chamber, where the Queen was with the bride and
a great company of gallant ladies. The bridegroom kissed her Majesty's hand, and then the bride's
hand; the rest of the company did the like. Between the Queen and Whitelocke passed a little
discourse.

Whitelocke. Madam, I give you humble thanks for your invitation of me to these solemnities.

Queen. It is an honour to us that such an Ambassador will be present at our ceremonies.

Wh. I likewise return my most humble thanks to your Majesty for your many favours, and the
noble presents you have been pleased to bestow on me and on my company.

Qu. Sir, you mock me; I am troubled I could not do according to that respect which I bear you.
This is only a custom of our country to persons of your condition, and I hope you will take
it in good part.

Wh. It is more suitable to your Majesty's bounty than to anything I can call desert in me,
who have a most grateful sense and acceptance of your Majesty's favours.

[SN: Ceremony of the marriage.]

The bride and bridegroom were both clothed in white tabby, his suit laced with a very broad
gold and silver lace. The bride had on her head a coronet set full of diamonds, with a diamond
collar about her neck and shoulders, a diamond girdle of the same fashion, and a rich diamond
jewel at her breast, which were all of them of great value, and by some reported to be the
Queen's jewels, lent by her to the bride for that time.

They went all to the great hall; first the noblemen, then the senators, then the bridegroom
between Bundt and Whitelocke, then the bride between two Graves, then the Queen and her Guards.
Then the Queen presently took her chair of state; at her right-hand at a little distance sat
the bride against her; at the Queen's left-hand sat the bridegroom, next to him Whitelocke,
and then Bundt. After they were all sat, Bundt rose up and went towards the Queen, and spake
in Swedish with a loud voice to this effect, as it was interpreted to Whitelocke:--That Baron
Horne, a gentleman there present, of an ancient and noble family, desired to have in marriage
a lady who was servant to her Majesty, of the ancient and noble family of the Sparres; then
he spake much of the pedigrees and in the praise of both the families; after that he addressed
himself to the bride and bridegroom, giving them good counsel as to the condition which they
were entering into, and their demeanour to one another. Then some friends led the bridegroom
to a place in the midst of the hall purposely railed in, and then they fetched the bride thither
also and placed her by the bridegroom; then a grave churchman, one of the Queen's chaplains,
turning himself to the Queen, pronounced the words of marriage after a form in a book which
he read, and being interpreted to Whitelocke, he found it the same in effect with the words
of marriage in the English Liturgy. The ceremony of joining them in marriage being ended, two
Graves with torches came to the bridegroom and bride and led them around; two other Lords with
torches followed after them, many ladies two by two. The bride being brought to her seat by
the bridegroom, he then took the Queen by the hand and they walked between the torches; then
the bride came and took Whitelocke by the hand and they walked after the Queen. Whitelocke
brought the bride again to her place, and being instructed that he was to take the Queen and
march the round with her also, Whitelocke did it, and all this was a solemn walking to the
sound of drums and trumpets. After which, every one returned to their places, and then they
set to dancing of the brawls; and the Queen came to Whitelocke to take him out to dance with
her, who excused himself.

[SN: Whitelocke dances with the Queen.]

Whitelocke. Madam, I am fearful that I shall dishonour your Majesty, as well as shame myself,
by dancing with you.

Queen. I will try whether you can dance.

Wh. I assure your Majesty I cannot in any measure be worthy to have you by the hand.

Qu. I esteem you worthy, and therefore make choice of you to dance with me.

Wh. I shall not so much undervalue your Majesty's judgement as not to obey you herein, and
I wish I could remember as much of this as when I was a young man.

After they had done dancing, and Whitelocke had waited upon the Queen to her chair of state,
she said to him--

Qu. Par Dieu! these Hollanders are lying fellows.

Wh. I wonder how the Hollanders should come into your mind upon such an occasion as this is,
who are not usually thought upon in such solemnities, nor much acquainted with them.

Qu. I will tell you all. The Hollanders reported to me a great while since that all the noblesse
of England were of the King's party, and none but mechanics of the Parliament party, and not
a gentleman among them; now I thought to try you, and to shame you if you could not dance;
but I see that you are a gentleman and have been bred a gentleman, and that makes me say the
Hollanders are lying fellows, to report that there was not a gentleman of the Parliament's
party, when I see by you chiefly, and by many of your company, that you are gentlemen.

Wh. Truly, Madam, in this they told a great untruth to your Majesty, as I believe they have
done in several other particulars. I do confess that the greatest part of our nobility and
gentry were of the King's party, but many of them likewise were of the Parliament's party;
and I, who am sent to wait upon your Majesty, can, without vanity, derive to myself an ancient
pedigree of a gentleman. They would not have given the honour to any but a gentleman to kiss
your Majesty's hand, and you are pleased to do your servant right, and his company, by acknowledging
that our superiors have commanded gentlemen to wait on you.

Qu. I assure you that I esteem it the greater honour done to me, and you are the more welcome
to me because you are a gentleman; and had I not known and found you to be so, your business
would not have been so well despatched as it is. I see you have all the qualities of a gentleman,
and I believe that you were excellent in your music and dancing in your younger days.

Wh. I was bred up in the qualities of a gentleman, and in my youth was accounted not inferior
to others in the practice of them; but it is so long since I used this of dancing, especially
after we learned to march, that had it not been to obey your Majesty, I should hardly have
been drawn to discover my deficiencies.

Qu. You have discovered nothing but what tends to your honour and to my contentment; and I
take it as a favour that you were willing to lay aside your gravity and play the courtier upon
my request, which I see you can do so well when you please.

After the dancing ended, there was brought into the hall a sumptuous banquet, the Hof-Marshal
with his silver staff ushering it, and after that distributed. The Queen and all the company
went back in the same order to the presence-chamber, and there the Queen bid the bride and
bridegroom good-night, and so all went to their lodgings, divers of the nobles waiting on the
bride to her chamber.

The Queen told Whitelocke that she believed the Prince would be here on Tuesday next, and that
Whitelocke should have his audience on Friday next. Whitelocke took his coach, after it had
waited nine hours at the castle.

May 11, 1654.

[SN: The abdication of Queen Christina.]

Early in the morning the master of the ceremonies came to accompany Whitelocke to the castle,
to see the manner of the assembly of the Ricksdag, and brought him and his company to the castle
to an upper room or gallery, where he sat privately, not taken notice of by any, yet had the
full view of the great hall where the Ricksdag met, and heard what was said. The Danish Ambassador
did forbear to come thither, as was supposed, because of Whitelocke being there. The French
Resident sat by Whitelocke, and conversed with him.

The great hall, two stories high, was prepared for the Assembly. An outer chamber was hung
with cloth of Arras; in the antechamber to that were guards of the Queen's partisans; in the
court was a company of musketeers. The great hall was hung with those hangings which were before
in Whitelocke's lodgings, with some others added, and was very handsome. On each side of the
hall, from the walls towards the middle of the room, forms were placed, covered with red cloth,
for seats for the Members, and were all alike without distinction, and reached upwards. Three
parts of the length of the hall, in the midst between the seats, was a space or lane broad
enough for three to walk abreast together. At the upper end of the hall, on a foot-pace three
steps high, covered with foot-carpets, stood the chair of state, all of massy silver, a rich
cushion in it, and a canopy of crimson velvet richly embroidered over it. On the left side
of the chair of state were placed five ordinary chairs of crimson velvet, without arms, for
the five Ricks-officers; and on the same side below them, and on the other side from the foot-pace
down to the forms, in a semicircular form, were stools of crimson velvet for the Ricks-Senators.

About nine o'clock there entered at the lower end of the great hall a plain, lusty man in his
boor's habit, with a staff in his hand, followed by about eighty boors, Members of this Council,
who had chosen the first man for their Marshal, or Speaker. These marched up in the open place
between the forms to the midst of them, and then the Marshal and his company sat down on the
forms on the right of the State, from the midst downwards to the lower end of the hall, and
put on their hats. A little while after them entered at the same door a man in a civil habit
of a citizen, with a staff in his hand, followed by about a hundred and twenty citizens, deputies
of the cities and boroughs, who had chosen him to be their Marshal. They all took their places
upon the forms over-against the boors in the lower end of the hall, and were covered. Not long
after, at the same door, entered a proper gentleman richly habited, a staff in his hand, who
was Marshal of the Nobility, followed by near two hundred lords and gentlemen, Members of the
Ricksdag, chief of their respective families, many of them rich in clothes, of civil deportment.
They took their seats uppermost on the right of the State, and whilst they walked up to their
forms the citizens and boors stood up uncovered; and when the nobility sat and put on their
hats, the citizens and boors did so likewise. A little after, at the same door, entered the
Archbishop of Upsal with a staff in his hand, who by his place is Marshal of the Clergy. He
was followed by five or six other bishops and all the superintendents, and about sixty Ministers,
Deputies, or Proctors of the Clergy. While they walked up to their places all the rest of the
Members stood up uncovered; and when they sat down on the uppermost forms on the left side
of the State, and put on their hats and caps, the rest of the Members did the like; these were
grave men, in their long cassocks and canonical habit, and most with long beards.

All the Members being thus sat, about a quarter of an hour after entered the Captain, followed
by divers of the Queen's Guard, with partisans. After them came many gentlemen of the Queen's
servants, uncovered, with swords by their sides and well clad, two and two together. After
them came the Ricks-Senators in their order, the puisne first. After them the Ricks-officers,
all bare. After them came the Queen, and kept off her hat in the hall, some of the officers
of the Court and pages after her. In this order they went up in the open place in the midst
of the forms, all the Members standing up uncovered. The Queen's company made a lane for her
to pass through, and she went up to her chair and sat down in it; and all the company, except
the members of the Council, went out of the hall, and all the doors were shut; the Members
sat in their places uncovered.

After the Queen had sat a little, she rose, and beckoned to the Chancellor to come to her,
who came with great ceremony and respect; and after a little speaking together he returned
to his place, and the Queen sat down again a little time; then rising up with mettle, she came
forward to the utmost part of the foot-pace, and with a good grace and confidence spake to
the Assembly, as it was interpreted to Whitelocke, to this effect:--

[SN: The Queen's speech.]

    "The occasion, my friends, wherefore you are called together to this
    Diet will in some sort appear strange to you; for being so unusual,
    and as it were unheard of, it cannot be understood without great
    astonishment. But, Gentlemen, when you shall a little reflect upon
    what hath passed some years since, you will then perceive that it is
    no new thing, but long since premeditated, and by me wished and
    intended.

    "It is sufficiently known to you what hath formerly passed as to the
    succession of my most dear cousin to this kingdom; and I esteem
    myself very happy that all things at present are in such a posture
    that thereupon I may bring my purpose to effect, which is, to offer
    and to give into the hands of my most dear cousin our most dear
    country and the royal seat, with the crown, the sceptre, and the
    government. I need not repeat this subject to you; it sufficeth
    that all may be done for the good of the country and the prosperity
    and security of my most dear cousin, to whom you have formerly given
    this right, and have found him capable to govern you and this
    kingdom, which he deserves by his great spirits and rare qualities,
    joined with his heroic actions, witnessed by divers encounters.

    "And since there is nothing wanting but time to put in execution the
    succession of my most dear cousin to the government of this kingdom,
    which depends only upon myself,--and of my purpose nothing remains
    but to make you parties, which is the only occasion of my calling
    you together, and which I shall more at large declare unto you by my
    proposal,--I doubt not but you will consent thereunto, whereby you
    will testify at this time, as you have done at all times before,
    your faithfulness and obedience to me.

    "Also I give you thanks that, with so much duty, you are come to
    this Diet, and that with so much affection and loyalty you have
    demeaned yourselves towards me and our most dear country during my
    government, so that I have received much content by your deportment;
    and if in these ten years of my administration I have merited
    anything from you, it shall be this only which I desire of you, that
    you will consent to my resolution, since you may assure yourselves
    that none can dissuade me from my purpose.

    "You may be pleased also to take in good part what hath passed
    during the time of my government, and to be assured that herein
    also, as well as in all other things, my intention hath been always
    to serve our most dear country. There remains nothing but my wishes
    that all may work to the glory of God, to the advancement of the
    Christian Church, and to the good and prosperity of our most dear
    country and of all her inhabitants."

[SN: The Archbishop's speech.]

After the Queen had spoken she sat down again, and after a little pause the Archbishop of Upsal
went out of his place into the open passage, and making his obeisance to the Queen, he, as
Marshal of the Clergy and in their name, made an oration to her Majesty, which was somewhat
long; but the effect thereof was interpreted to Whitelocke to be an acknowledgment of the happy
reign of her Majesty, whereby her subjects had enjoyed all good, peace, and justice and liberty,
and whatsoever were the products of a blessed government. He then recited the great affections
of this people to the King her father, and to her Majesty his only child; their duty and obedience
to her in all her commands; that no prince could be more happy than her Majesty was in the
affections and duty of her subjects, nor could any people be more contented in the rule of
their sovereign than her people were; he therefore used all arguments and humble entreaties
to her Majesty to desist from her intention of resigning the government, and to continue to
sway the sceptre of this kingdom, wherein he did not doubt but that the blessing of God would
be with her as it had been, and that it would be to His honour and to the good of this kingdom
if her Majesty would hearken to the humble desires of the clergy in this particular. Then he
acknowledged the virtues and admirable abilities of the Prince, whose succession would come
in due time; that, her Majesty reigning at present with so much satisfaction both to this Church
and State, he humbly desired, in the name of the clergy, that she would be pleased, though
to her own trouble, yet for her subjects' good, to continue still to be Queen over them. After
he had ended his speech, making three congees, he went up to the Queen and kissed her hand,
and with three more congees returned to his place.

Then the Marshal of the Nobility, going forth into the open place between the forms, made his
oration in the name of the nobility, much to the same purpose as the Archbishop had done, and,
after his oration ended, with the like ceremony kissed her Majesty's hand, and returned to
his place. Then the like was done by the Marshal of the Burgesses, and all to the same effect.

[SN: The Boor's speech.]

In the last place stepped forth the Marshal of the Boors, a plain country fellow, in his clouted
shoon, and all other habits answerable, as all the rest of his company were accoutred. This
boor, without any congees or ceremony at all, spake to her Majesty, and was interpreted to
Whitelocke to be after this phrase:--

    "O Lord God, Madam, what do you mean to do? It troubles us to hear
    you speak of forsaking those that love you so well as we do. Can you
    be better than you are? You are Queen of all these countries, and if
    you leave this large kingdom, where will you get such another? If
    you should do it (as I hope you won't for all this), both you and we
    shall have cause, when it is too late, to be sorry for it. Therefore
    my fellows and I pray you to think better on't, and to keep your
    crown on your head, then you will keep your own honour and our
    peace; but if you lay it down, in my conscience you will endanger
    all. Continue in your gears, good Madam, and be the fore-horse as
    long as you live, and we will help you the best we can to bear your
    burden.

    "Your father was an honest gentleman and a good king, and very
    stirring in the world; we obeyed him and loved him as long as he
    lived; and you are his own child, and have governed us very well,
    and we love you with all our hearts; and the Prince is an honest
    gentleman, and when his time comes we shall be ready to do our
    duties to him as we do to you; but as long as you live we are not
    willing to part with you, and therefore I pray, Madam, do not part
    with us."

When the boor had ended his speech, he waddled up to the Queen without any ceremony, took her
by the hand and shook it heartily, and kissed it two or three times; then turning his back
to her, he pulled out of his pocket a foul handkerchief and wiped the tears from his eyes,
and in the same posture as he came up he returned back to his own place again.

When the orations were all ended, one of the Queen's secretaries, by her command, read unto
the Assembly a paper, which Whitelocke procured to be given to him in a copy, and translated
into English.

[SN: The Queen's declaration to the Diet.]

    The Proposition of her Majesty of Sweden to the Estates assembled
    at Upsal the 11th of May, in the year 1654.

    "Since for certain reasons her Majesty found it good and necessary
    to assemble the Estates of the Kingdom at this time, and that they
    have given testimony of their obedience in their coming together,
    her Majesty hath great cause to rejoice that the good God hath
    preserved our country from all apparent harms, and principally from
    the contagious sickness of the plague, which spread itself in divers
    places the last autumn, but at present is ceased, so that we may
    meet together in all safety. Her Majesty rejoiceth in the good
    health of her faithful subjects; and this obligeth us not only to
    return humble thanks to our good God, but the more to supplicate Him
    for the future to avert his fatherly chastisements from us.

    "Also her Majesty understands with great joy, that the scarcity and
    dearth in the late years is now changed into fruitfulness and
    abundance, so that the last year there was not only very great
    abundance of all things which the earth produceth, but further,
    thanks be to God, we have cause, according to appearances, to hope
    this year will be no less fruitful; the which great blessing of God
    to this country clearly shows us the great obligations which we have
    to Him.

    "Also her Majesty calls to mind, that which she graciously mentions
    to her faithful subjects, how the country, within the limits
    thereof, is at present in a good and peaceable condition, and so
    hath been kept by Divine Providence, and the faithful care of her
    Majesty, in times of danger; and when war, and the imminent perils
    accompanying the same roundabout us, had the sway, yet we always
    continued in quiet without taking part in others' quarrels, and for
    this end hath always endeavoured to entertain a sincere friendship
    and good correspondence with her neighbours and allies.

    "And as to the neighbourhood of Denmark, her Majesty hath nothing to
    fear, since she hath given no occasion in anything but of sincere
    friendship and firm peace.

    "In like manner, with all possible care, by her Commissioners, hath
    composed the differences touching the limits between her and the
    Great Duke of Muscovy; and although the said Duke hath signified to
    her Majesty by divers envoys that he would justify the expedition of
    war newly made by him against the Polanders, with all the reasons
    thereof, yet since that is a business which can no way involve her
    Majesty and the Crown of Sweden, there is no cause to fear it;
    provided their actions be watched, and{7} that, by little and
    little, preparation be made, if there shall be cause to apply some
    remedies.

    "With the King and Crown of Poland is continued the amnesty for
    twenty-six years, formerly accorded; and although her Majesty
    wisheth that this amnesty had been converted into a perpetual
    peace,--and for this end she hath caused pains to be taken twice at
    Lübeck, by the mediators and her Commissioners, and although they
    are not yet agreed,--nevertheless her Majesty understands so much on
    the part of Poland that they are not disaffected to the renewing of
    the treaties for a longer time, so that her Majesty hath no cause
    but to promise herself at length a favourable success therein.

    "With the Emperor and Roman Empire her Majesty, since the peace
    executed in Germany, hath continued and maintained good amity and
    correspondence; and for this end she hath her ambassadors there,
    who have their places in the present Diet for the principality of
    Bremen, Verden, and Pomerland, among the other members of the empire
    who do there maintain and observe the interests of her Majesty; and
    for the conclusion of the peace of Germany her Majesty hath
    resolved, by a great embassy, to accept the possession and
    investiture, from the Emperor, of the conquered countries.

    "Also her Majesty hath a good correspondence and friendship with
    France and Spain by fit means and a good alliance.

    "But particularly her Majesty rejoiceth that the perilous war made
    in the ocean between the powerful Commonwealths of England and the
    United Provinces (by which we have received very great damage in our
    trade throughout, as it appeareth) is appeased and ended; and that,
    since, her Majesty hath made an alliance with the Commonwealth of
    England for the security of navigation and commerce, so that the
    faithful subjects of her Majesty may thereby hope to have great
    advantage and profit.

    "In this posture and state of affairs, her Majesty thinks it fit to
    prosecute her intention, which she hath conceived some years since,
    and to put the same in execution, that is, to give up the kingdom of
    Sweden and her sceptre to his Royal Highness, the most high, most
    illustrious Prince Charles Gustavus, by the grace of God designed
    hereditary Prince of the kingdom of Sweden, Count Palatine of the
    Rhine in Bavaria, Prince of Jülich, Cleves, and Bergen; and this is
    the only business which her Majesty hath to propose to her faithful
    subjects at this time.

    "Her Majesty also hath this gracious confidence in all the Estates
    here now assembled, that when they shall consider with what
    dexterity, pains, and travail her Majesty for ten years hath managed
    the affairs of this kingdom, and with such good fortune that all the
    counsels and intentions of her Majesty have been followed with such
    happy success, that the State, with great honour and reputation,
    hath escaped many difficulties of war, and yet enjoys such quiet,
    that they cannot judge or conclude that her Majesty would now make
    any alteration were it not for the good and safety of this nation.

    "The Estates, which have been formerly assembled, know very well how
    earnestly her Majesty pressed that the kingdom and government might
    be provided of a successor, thereby to avoid and cut off the sudden
    accidents which happen when a government is uncertain; for which
    reason the Estates in that point did agree and think good heretofore
    that his Highness should be chosen and made hereditary Prince and
    successor to the crown. All this her Majesty did propose and urge
    till it was brought to the effect which that time produced.

    "And to the end that her Majesty, during her life, may have the
    pleasure to see the happy effect of this design, and that the entire
    government may be rendered into the hands of his Royal Highness,
    therefore her Majesty hath resolved to quit the crown and the
    privileges of it, and to put them into the hands of his Royal
    Highness.

    "And although this resolution of her Majesty may seem strange and
    unexpected to the Estates of the kingdom, nevertheless, according to
    her gracious confidence, she believes that they will consent to her
    quiet in retiring herself from so heavy a burden, by their
    contributing an assent to the proposed alteration.

    "Her Majesty likewise assures herself (as the Estates by their
    former acts have always testified) of the esteem which they have of
    the person and of the rare virtues and well-known qualities of his
    Royal Highness; and that they will find that he will employ them to
    a prudent government and to their great advantage, and that at
    length they will not be deceived by this change, or any ways
    prejudiced: for which end her Majesty promiseth and offereth to
    contribute all her advice and counsel and endeavour,--chiefly that
    his Royal Highness, before his entry into the government, may assure
    the Estates and effectually do that which the Kings of Sweden upon
    the like occasions have used to do, and are by the laws and customs
    obliged unto.

    "And on the other part, that the Estates and all the subjects of
    Sweden be obliged to render unto his Royal Highness that respect,
    obedience, and all those rights which appertain to a King, and which
    they are obliged to perform.

    "And as her Majesty hath considered and resolved upon the means
    whereby her Majesty may enjoy a yearly pension to be settled upon
    her during her life, and having communicated her purpose therein to
    his Royal Highness the successor to the crown, so she graciously
    hopeth that her faithful subjects and the Estates will be content
    therewith, humbly receiving and consenting to what her Majesty hath
    graciously disposed.

    "Her Majesty graciously requires all the Estates of the kingdom that
    they would, as soon as may be, consider this business, to the end
    that the resolution taken by her Majesty may in a short time be
    brought unto effect.

    "Her Majesty most graciously thanks all her faithful subjects for
    the obedience, honour, and respect which every one of them hath
    faithfully testified to her Majesty during the time of her
    government; so that her Majesty hath received full contentment by
    their most humble demeanour, which hereafter, upon all occasions,
    she will acknowledge with all gratitude.

    "Her Majesty also hopeth that her most faithful subjects will be
    satisfied, and give a good construction of the faithful care which
    her Majesty hath employed for all in general and their happiness,
    and chiefly for the gracious affection which she hath testified
    towards every one in particular.

    "Her Majesty wisheth that the most high and most powerful God would
    conserve and protect our dear country, with all the inhabitants
    thereof and all the subjects, from all harm; and to conclude, that
    the estates of the kingdom, as well in general as in particular, may
    continue and increase from day to day, and may for ever flourish."

After this proposition was read, the Queen's servants were called in, and she went out of the
hall, attended by them and the Ricks-Senators in the same way and manner as she came in; and
after she was gone, first the Archbishop of Upsal and the clergy following him; second, the
Marshal and Nobility; third, the Marshal and Burgesses; fourth, the Marshal and Boors, went
out of the hall in the same order as they first came in; and when they were all gone, Whitelocke
returned to his lodging.

[SN: The solemnities of the marriage resumed.]

About eleven o'clock in the evening, the master of the ceremonies came to bring Whitelocke
to the remainder of the solemnities of the marriage. Whitelocke, in no good condition to go
abroad, having sat up the last night, yet rather than discontent the Queen and the nobility,
who had sent for him, he went with the master in the Queen's coach to the bridegroom's lodging
in the castle, who met him in the outer chamber and brought him into another room where were
many senators and lords; they all took their coach, and went in the same order as the day before
to the Queen, where the bride and ladies were expecting them.

They came all to the great hall, where the Queen and the company took their places, and the
drums beating and trumpets sounding. A gentleman entered the hall carrying a spear or pike
covered with taffeta of the bridegroom's colours, all but the head, which was silver, worth
about twenty crowns; he stood by the bride, holding the spear in the middle, both ends of it
about breast-high, and the bridegroom was brought and placed by his bride. Then Senator Bundt
made a solemn speech to the Queen, which (according to the interpretation made to Whitelocke)
was to thank her Majesty for the favour which she did to the bride and bridegroom in permitting
the nuptials to be in her Court; and he acquainted the Queen, and published to the company,
what dowry the bridegroom had given that morning to his bride, with two thousand ducats for
her provision; and that twelve of the nobility, of the alliance and friends to them both, were
witnesses thereunto, and were to take care that the money should be disposed to the use of
the wife and children, in case she survived her husband.

Then a gentleman read aloud the names of the twelve witnesses, who, as they were called one
after another, making their honours to the Queen, went and laid their right hands on the spear;
and then was published the dowry and augmentation thus by these twelve witnesses. After this
the spear was laid down at the feet of the bride, and all, making their solemn reverences to
the Queen, took again their places. Then the same gentleman that laid down the spear, took
it up again and threw it out of the window into the great court; where a multitude of people
stood expecting it, and scrambled for the head of it, and for the taffeta, which they tore
in pieces and wore in their hats as the bride's favours.

After this ceremony ended, the bridegroom came and took the bride by the hand, and they marched
after the torches to the sound of the drums and trumpets; after that the bridegroom took the
Queen by the hand, and the bride came and took the English Ambassador by the hand, and other
noblemen took their several ladies, and they marched two and two amidst the torches and to
the same loud music as they had done the night before. After this the noblemen and ladies went
to dance French dances and country dances; but Whitelocke having watched the night before,
and not being well, he privately withdrew himself from the company and retired to his house,
wondering that the Queen, after so serious a work as she had been at in the morning, could
be so pleased with this evening's ceremonies.

May 12, 1654.

[SN: Despatches from England.]

About one o'clock the last night, Whitelocke, coming from the solemnities of the Court, received
two packets of letters from England. He had the more cause to remember the time, because then,
although midnight, he could perfectly read his letters without any candle or other light than
that of the heavens, which in this season of the year scarce leaves any night at all, but so
as one may well read all the night long with the help of twilight.

The letters from Thurloe of the first date acquainted Whitelocke that now he had sent duplicates
of the last instructions by a ship going to Sweden. In Thurloe's second letters, dated 13th
of April, he mentions the instructions sent formerly to Whitelocke, and acquaints him again
with the effect of them, and the Protector's order, by which he leaves it to Whitelocke to
return home when he shall judge it fit; and that if he should stay the ceremonies of the coronation
of the new King, it would occasion great delay. And he writes further:--

    "But in truth we cannot believe, notwithstanding all that is said,
    that her Majesty will quit her crown, being so well qualified in
    all respects to govern as she is, and seems to be very well accepted
    of her people."

Then he again mentions the signing of the peace with the Dutch, and that the Protector had
appointed Commissioners to treat with the French, Spanish, and Portugal Ambassadors, but had
not yet declared himself to any of his neighbours.

    "That the business in Scotland was well; that the Protector had
    taken away Colonel Rich's commission, whereof the officers of his
    regiment were glad; that many congratulatory petitions to his
    Highness came from divers counties, one from Bucks; that the
    Protector proceeded to reformation of the law and ministry, and I
    hope he will merit as well in that as in the military affairs. I
    return your Excellence my humble thanks for your acceptance of my
    endeavours to serve you; I can say they come from an honest heart,
    which very really embraceth every opportunity wherein I may manifest
    myself

                  "Your Excellence's faithful humble servant,
                                                    "JO. THURLOE.
    "Whitehall, 13th April, 1654."

Whitelocke received several letters in these packets from Mr. Cokaine; one, dated the 2nd of
April, saith thus:--

    "You will have leave from his Highness to take your first
    opportunity to come away, and I hope it will not be without bringing
    your business to a happy and an honourable issue, which is the
    constant subject of our requests to the Lord for you, and I doubt
    not but we shall have a comfortable answer. In the meantime I think,
    as I have hinted to your Excellence in former letters, it will not
    be amiss if you draw good store of bills upon us, though but pro
    formâ, that we may get as much money for you as we can before your
    return, and that you may have a sufficient overplus to pay all
    servants' wages off, which I believe will amount to a considerable
    sum; and upon this peace I hope it will be no hard matter to get
    your bills paid, especially if your Excellence please withal to
    write to my Lord Protector and Mr. Thurloe and some of the Council
    about it. I could wish that you would make what haste you can home,
    for I am informed by a special hand that there is great labouring to
    make a Chancellor whilst you are absent, and to take that
    opportunity to put you by, whom I believe they doubt to be too much
    a Christian and an Englishman to trust in their service; but I hope
    God will give you a heart to submit to His will, and to prize a good
    conscience above all the world, which will indeed stand us in stead
    when all outward things cannot in the least administer to us.

                  "Your Excellence's most humble servant,
                                                   "GEO. COKAINE.
    "April 2nd."

In another letter from Mr. Cokaine he saith:--

    "Mr. Thurloe was pleased to acquaint me that it was his Highness and
    the Council's pleasure to make some alteration in the Chancery; that
    it was determined that your Lordship and Sir Thomas Widdrington and
    my Lord Lisle should have the custody of the Great Seal, and I
    believe an Act to that purpose will pass within few hours; but I
    perceive this business was not done without some tugging; but my
    Lord Protector and John Thurloe are true to you, and now I am out of
    all fears that any affront should be offered you in your absence.
    Mr. Mackworth deserves a letter from you; but nothing, I pray, of
    this business. Indeed Mr. Thurloe hath played his part gallantly and
    like a true friend, for which I shall love him as long as I live."

In other letters from Mr. Cokaine in this packet, dated 14th April, he saith:--

    "Your old servant Abel is much courted by his Highness to be his
    Falconer-in-Chief; but he will not accept it except your Excellence
    had been here to give him your explicit leave to serve his Highness,
    and told me, without stuttering, he would not serve the greatest
    prince in the world except your Excellence were present, to make the
    bargain that he might wait upon you with a cast of hawks at the
    beginning of September every year into Bedfordshire. It is pity that
    gallantry should hurt any. Certainly it is a noble profession that
    inspires him with such a spirit.

    "My Lord Protector this week hath expressed great respect to your
    Excellence upon the death of the Clerk of the Peace of Bucks. Some
    of the justices came up and moved his Highness to put one into his
    place, who thereupon asked who was Custos Rotulorum. They
    answered, the Lord Ambassador Whitelocke. He thereupon replied that
    the place should not be disposed of till his return. They urged it
    again with many reasons; but he gave them the same answer, only with
    this addition, that he was to return sooner than perhaps they were
    aware of."

By this packet Whitelocke received letters from Mr. Selden, which were thus:--

    "For his Excellence the Lord Whitelocke, Lord Ambassador from the
    State of England to her Majesty of Sweden.

    "My Lord,

    "Your Excellence's last of the 3rd of February brought me so
    unexpressible a plenty of the utmost of such happiness as consists
    in true reputation and honour, as that nothing with me will equal or
    come near it. First, that her most excellent Majesty, a Prince so
    unparalleled and incomparable and so justly acknowledged with the
    height of true admiration by all that either have or love arts or
    other goodness, should vouchsafe to descend to the mention of my
    mean name and the inquiry of my being and condition with such most
    gracious expressions. Next, that your Excellence, whose favours have
    been so continually multiplied on me, should be the person of whom
    such inquiry was made. All the danger is, that your noble affection
    rendered me far above myself. However, it necessitates me to become
    a fervent suitor to your Excellence, that if it shall fall out that
    her Majesty and you have again leisure and will to speak of any such
    trifle as I am, you will be pleased to represent to her Majesty my
    most humble thanks, and my heart full of devotion to her, of which I
    too shall study to give, if I can, some other humble testimony. God
    send her most excellent Majesty always her heart's desires, and the
    most royal amplitude of all happiness, and your Lordship a good
    despatch and safe and timely return.

                  "My Lord, your Excellence's most
                                    "obliged and humble servant,
                                                     "JO. SELDEN.
    "Whitefriars, March 2nd, 1653."

Whitelocke had also in this packet letters from his old friends Mr. Hall, Mr. Eltonhead, the
Lord Commissioner Lisle, his brothers Wilson and Carleton, Mr. Peters, Sir Joseph Holland,
and divers others; also letters from Hamburg, from Mr. Bradshaw, the Protector's Resident there,
with some intercepted letters from the King's party, as Sir Edward Hyde and several others.

[SN: His audience of leave-taking.]

This day being appointed for Whitelocke's last audience, he was habited in a plain suit of
very fine English cloth of musk-colour, the buttons of gold, enamelled, and in each button
a ruby, and rich points and ribbons of gold; his gentlemen were in their richest clothes; his
pages and lacqueys, above twenty, in their liveries. In the afternoon two of the Ricks-Senators,
with the master of the ceremonies, came with two of the Queen's coaches to Whitelocke's house,
to bring him to his audience. He received them with the usual ceremony, and after they had
sat a little while in his bedchamber, one of the Senators said that by the Queen's command
they were come to him to accompany him to his audience which he had desired this day, and that
her Majesty was ready to receive him. Whitelocke answered, that he was always desirous to wait
upon her Majesty, and not the less now because it was in order to return to his own country.
They made no long compliments, but went down and took their coaches.

The noblemen's coaches sent thither to accompany him went first, then followed his two coaches,
and last the Queen's coaches. In the last of them sat the two Senators in the fore-end, Whitelocke
in the back-end, and the master in the boot; the gentlemen in the several coaches, the pages
and lacqueys walking and riding behind the coaches. At the bridge of the castle was a guard
of musketeers more than formerly, of about two companies, with their officers; they made a
lane from the bridge to the end of the Court. As soon as Whitelocke was alighted out of the
coach, the Ricks-Hofmeister with his silver staff met him at the stairs' foot, very many of
the Queen's servants and courtiers with him very gallant. Whitelocke's gentlemen went first,
two and two up the stairs; after them the Queen's servants, then the master of the ceremonies,
then the Hof-Marshal, then the two Senators and Whitelocke between them, followed by his sons,
his chaplains, physician, secretaries, and steward, and after them his pages and lacqueys.
In this order they mounted the stairs, and through the great chamber to the guard-chamber,
where the Queen's partisans stood in their rich coats, with the arms of Sweden embroidered
with gold, their swords by their sides, and rich halberds gilded in their hands; they stood
in a fixed posture, more like images than men. When they came to the audience-chamber, there
was scarce room for any of Whitelocke's gentlemen to come in; but by the civility of the Queen's
servants room was made for them, and they made a lane from the door of the chamber to the upper
end near the Queen, who was upon a foot-pace covered with carpets, and a rich canopy over her
head. Her habit was black silk stuff for her coats, and over them a black velvet jippo, such
as men use to wear; she had upon her breast the jewel of the Order of the Knights of Amaranta;
her hair hung loose as it used to do, and her hat was after the fashion of men. A great number
of senators and of civil and military officers and courtiers,--many more than ordinarily did
appear at any audience,--stood all bare about her, and a few ladies were behind her. She stood
upon the carpets before the state with her hat on; and when Whitelocke came first into the
room, and pulled off his hat, the Queen presently pulled off her hat; and when Whitelocke made
his honours, she answered him, though at that distance, with a short curtsey. After his three
obeisances, being come up to the Queen, he kissed her hand; then the Queen put on her hat,
and Whitelocke{8} put on his hat, and after a little pause, with high silence and solemnity
in all the company, Whitelocke took off his hat, and the Queen took off her hat likewise, and
all the time of his speaking both of them were uncovered. Whitelocke, having made his ceremonies,
spake to the Queen thus:--

[SN: Whitelocke's farewell speech.]

    "Madam,

    "I confess that the time of my absence from my relations and
    concernments in my own country would have seemed very tedious, had
    I not been in the public service and honoured with admittance into
    your Majesty's presence, whose favours, answerable to your greatness
    though above my merit, have been enlarged towards me during the
    whole time of my residence under the just and safe protection of
    your Majesty; the which,--with the civilities of those most
    excellent persons with whom I treated, and of those who have been
    pleased to honour me with their acquaintance in your Court,--I shall
    not fail to acknowledge with all respect.

    "But, Madam, to your Majesty I shall not presume to return any other
    acknowledgment than by the thanks of my Lord the Protector, who is
    able to judge of the affection shown to him, and to the Commonwealth
    whereof he is the head, by the honour done unto their servant.

    "Madam, it is your great judgement in the public interest, and your
    desire to advance the good of your own State and that of your
    neighbours, and the particular respect that you bear to my master,
    whereby the business trusted to my care by his Highness is brought
    to such an issue as I hope will be a solid foundation of great and
    mutual prosperity to both these nations.

    "I have nothing to add on my part, but to entreat that my failings
    and errors, not wilfully committed, may be excused; to take my leave
    of your Majesty, and to assure you that there is no person who
    honours you more than I do, and who shall be more ready to lay hold
    on any opportunity whereby I may endeavour, to the utmost of my
    power, to contribute to the happiness and prosperity of your royal
    Majesty and of your people."

As it was done at Whitelocke's first audience, so he now ordered it, that Monsieur De la Marche,
one of his chaplains, did, at the end of every sentence, as Whitelocke spake, interpret the
same to the Queen in French. During all the time of his speaking to the Queen she looked him
wistly in the face and came up very near unto him, as she had done at his first audience,--perhaps
to have daunted him, as she had done others, but he was not daunted; and when he had made an
end of speaking, after a little pause the Queen answered him in the Swedish language, which
was then interpreted in Latin to Whitelocke, to this effect:--

[SN: The Queen's reply.]

    "My Lord Ambassador,

    "It may well be that your stay in this place, where you have been so
    ill accommodated, and your absence from your near relations and
    native country, hath been tedious to you; but I can assure you that
    your residence in my Court hath been a contentment to myself and to
    those who have had the honour to converse with you in this place;
    and it would have been a blemish to me and to all under my
    government if in this time anything of injury or danger had fallen
    out to your person or to any of your people. I hope I may say that
    there hath been no such thing offered to you, and I am glad of it.

    "I do not know that your judgement hath deceived you in anything but
    this, that you have too great a value of my understanding of public
    affairs. It hath been your prudent management of the business
    committed to your trust by the Protector, and my particular respects
    to him and to your Commonwealth, with the good inclinations of the
    people of this country towards you, and the general interests of the
    Protestant party, which have brought your business to effect, and
    which, I hope, will occasion much good and happiness to these
    nations and to all the Evangelical party. And truly, Sir, your
    demeanour on all occasions requires from us this testimony, that we
    have found much honour and great abilities to be in you; and I
    should be very unwilling to part with so good company, were it not
    in order to your own satisfaction for your return to England.

    "I know no errors committed by you here, but desire your excuse of
    the want of those expressions of our respect which this place would
    not afford. The thanks are due to you for your patience, and for the
    affection which you have testified to me and to this nation, from
    whom you may depend upon a firm friendship and amity, with a true
    respect to the Protector and Commonwealth of England, and an
    honourable esteem of yourself in particular, to whom we wish a safe
    and prosperous return to your own country."

After the Queen had done speaking, Whitelocke had some private discourse of compliment with
her in French, to give her Majesty thanks for her noble treatment of him and many favours to
him; then, according to the usage of this Court, he delivered to Mr. Lagerfeldt, standing by,
a copy of his speech, in English, signed by him with his hand, and another copy of his speech
in Latin, not signed by him, to be presented to the Queen. Then Whitelocke took his leave,
and kissed her Majesty's hand, who gave him the adieu with great respect and civility. He was
conducted back to his coach with the same ceremony as he was brought to his audience; and the
same two senators, with the master of the ceremonies, returned with him to his house, and after
usual compliments passed between them, they returned to the Court.

The trouble of the day was not yet ended; but after Whitelocke had come from the Court, Lagerfeldt
brought to him the articles touching Guinea which were agreed upon and signed and sealed by
the Queen's Commissioners, as the other part of them was by Whitelocke.[240]

After the great toil of this busy day, a yet greater toil must be undergone by Whitelocke to
make his despatches for England. By his letters to Thurloe he again acquainted the Council
with the good conclusion of his treaty, and with his taking leave of the Queen in his last
audience; and sent him copies of the speeches, and gave an account of the business of Guinea,
with all material passages since his last letters, and his resolution and way of return home.
He also answered the letters of every one of his friends, which were very many; but that to
his wife, as he was afterwards informed, caused much trouble and passion, that by this date
of the letter, 12th May, she perceived that he was not removed from Upsal in his journey to
return homewards.

May 13, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke takes leave of his friends.]

Whitelocke began his visits and compliments to take his leave of his friends in this Court;
and herein he was to be very exact, and not to omit any one who had given him the honour of
former visits. He, to be the less subject to mistakes, set down in writing the names of those
whom he was to visit, which made a long catalogue; but he must get through it, as part of the
business of an ambassador. And this day he began by visiting the French and Holland Residents,
and the Grave Leonhough, whose discourses were concerning the peace between England and the
Dutch, the English strong fleet at sea, of the Queen's resignation, and other general themes
not necessary to be repeated.

[SN: The Sound Dues.]

Woolfeldt gave a visit to Whitelocke and discoursed on the same subjects, but more particularly
of the interest of England and the payment of toll to the King of Denmark at the Sound, wherein
Whitelocke had good information from him, and such as, if it had been hearkened unto, would
have been of great advantage to the Protector and Commonwealth of England. So great an interest
Whitelocke had gained in the affection and friendship of this gentleman, that he would not
conceal from him anything that he knew, who knew more than any other that Whitelocke met with
concerning the Sound, the King of Denmark, the Court and courtiers here, or whatsoever related
to Whitelocke's business and to England.

May 14, 1654.

This Lord's Day Sir George Fleetwood did Whitelocke the favour to bear him company at his house,
and told him that the Queen and her Lords were pleased with his deportment at his last audience,
and with his speech then made, which they commended, but is here omitted. He and others also
acquainted Whitelocke that the Queen took great pleasure at his carriage at the solemnity of
the nuptials at Court, and that he would dance with them; and both the Queen and her courtiers
said that the English Ambassador knew how to lay aside the gravity of an ambassador when he
pleased, and could play the courtier with as good a grace as any one that ever they saw, with
much to the like effect.

May 15, 1654.

[SN: A private audience of the Queen.]

Whitelocke visited Marshal Wrangel and General Wittenberg, and went from thence to the castle
to visit Grave Tott, who told him that the Queen had altered her purpose of sending him into
England, and would do him the honour to retain him with her, but that yet he hoped in a short
time to see England. Whitelocke said he should be glad to meet him, and to do him service there.
They discoursed of the Queen's residence in Pomerland, or some other place near this country,
and of the discommodities and inconveniences which would arise thereby. Whitelocke told him
that if the Queen had leisure, that he should be glad to wait on her; and Tott went presently
to know her pleasure, and promised to bring word to Whitelocke if he might see the Queen, and
did it at the Lady Jane Ruthven's lodging, whither Whitelocke was gone to take his leave of
that lady; whence he brought Whitelocke to the traverse of the wardrobe, where her Majesty
came to him and conducted him into her bedchamber, where they thus discoursed:--

Whitelocke. I humbly thank your Majesty for admitting me to be present at the meeting of the
Ricksdag.

Queen. How did you like the manner and proceedings of it when you were there?

Wh. It was with the greatest gravity and solemnity that I ever saw in any public assembly,
and well becoming persons of their quality and interest.

Qu. There be among them very considerable persons, and wise men.

Wh. Such an assembly requires such men, and their carriage showed them to be such; but, Madam,
I expected that your Chancellor, after he spake with your Majesty, should, according to the
course in our Parliaments, have declared, by your direction, the causes of the Council's being
summoned.

Qu. It belongs to the office of the Chancellor with us to do it; and when I called him to me,
it was to desire him to do it.

Wh. How then came it to pass that he did it not, when his place and your Majesty required it?

Qu. He desired to be excused, and gave me this reason, that he had taken an oath to my father
to use his utmost endeavour to keep the crown on my head, and that the cause of my calling
this Diet was to have their consents for me to quit the Crown; that if he should make this
proposition to them, it would be contrary to the oath which he had taken to my father, and
therefore he could not do it.

Wh. Did not your Majesty expect this answer?

Qu. Not at all, but was wholly surprised by it; and when the Ricksdag were met, my Chancellor
thus excusing himself, there was nobody appointed by me to declare to them the cause of their
meeting; but rather than the Assembly should be put off, and nothing done, I plucked up my
spirits the best I could, and spake to them on the sudden as you heard, although much to my
disadvantage.

Wh. Indeed, Madam, you were much surprised; and I cannot but wonder that you should have no
intimation given you beforehand of your Chancellor's resolution; but your Majesty will pardon
me if I believe it proved no disadvantage to you, when I had the honour to see and hear with
how excellent a grace and how prince-like your Majesty, in so great an assembly and on a sudden,
delivered your mind and purpose.

Qu. You are apt to make the best construction of it; you see I did adventure upon it, remembering
that they were my subjects, and I their Queen.

Wh. Madam, you spake and acted like yourself, and were highly complimented by the several Marshals,
but above all the rest by the honest boor.

Qu. Was you so taken with his clownery?

Wh. It seemed to me as pure and clear natural eloquence, without any forced strain, as could
be expressed.

Qu. Indeed there was little else but what was natural, and by a well-meaning man, who has understanding
enough in his country way.

Wh. Whosoever shall consider his matter more than his form will find that the man understands
his business; and the garment or phrase wherewith he clothed his matter, though it was rustic,
yet the variety and plain elegancy and reason could not but affect his auditors.

Qu. I think he spake from his heart.

Wh. I believe he did, and acted so too, especially when he wiped his eyes.

Qu. He showed his affection to me in that posture more than greater men did in their spheres.

Wh. Madam, we must look upon all men to work according to their present interest; and so I
suppose do the great men here as well as elsewhere.

Qu. Here I have had experience enough of such actings; I shall try what they do in other places,
and content myself, however I shall find it.

Wh. Your Majesty will not expect to find much difference in the humours of men, as to seeking
themselves, and neglecting those from whom they have received favours.

Qu. It will be no otherwise than what I am armed to bear and not to regard; but your particular
respects I shall always remember with gratefulness.

Wh. Your Majesty shall ever find me your faithful servant. Do you intend, Madam, to go from
hence to Pomerland?

Qu. My intentions are to go presently, after my resignation, to the Spa; but wheresoever I
am, you have a true friend of me.

Wh. There is no person alive more cordially your Majesty's servant than I am.

Qu. I do believe it, or else I should not have communicated to you such things as I have done.

Wh. Your Majesty hath therein expressed much confidence in me, which I hope shall never deceive
you, however my want of abilities may not answer your Majesty's favours to me.

Qu. I have no doubt of your faithfulness, and you have sufficiently manifested your abilities.
Give me leave to trouble you with the company of a gentleman, my servant, whom I purpose to
send over with you to England, to take care for those things which I desire to have from thence.

Wh. He shall be very welcome to me and my company, and I shall give him my best assistance
for your Majesty's service.

Qu. I shall thank you for it, and command him to obey your directions.

Wh. Madam, if you please to accept a set of black English horses for your coach, I shall take
the boldness to send them to your stables; and pray your Majesty that the Master of your Horse
may furnish me for my journey to Stockholm.

Qu. I do thankfully accept your kindness, and all mine are at your service.

Wh. I have interrupted your Majesty too long. I desired the favour of this opportunity to present
my most humble thanks to your Majesty for all your noble favours to me and my company.

Qu. I entreat your excuse for the meanness of my presents. I could not do therein what I desired,
nor after your merit.

Wh. Madam, there is nothing of my merit to be alleged; but your Majesty hath testified much
honour to the Protector and Commonwealth whom I serve.

Qu. England is a noble country, and your master is a gallant man. I desire you to assure him,
on my part, of all affection and respect towards him.

Wh. Your Majesty may be confident of the like from his Highness; and your humble servant will
heartily pray for your Majesty's prosperity, wherever you are.

Qu. I wish you a happy voyage and return to your own country.

After he came from the Queen, Whitelocke met with the Baron Steinberg, Master of her Horse,
whom he acquainted with what he had moved to her Majesty, and he was very forward to accommodate
Whitelocke.

[SN: Discourse with Grave Eric on the customs of Swedish nuptials.]

From hence he went and visited Grave Eric Oxenstiern, who discoursed with him about the solemnity
of the nuptials at Court, and asked him how he liked it.

Wh. They were very noble; but I pray, my noble brother, instruct me what the meaning was of
the dowry given by the bridegroom to the bride the next morning; and what do you call that dowry?

Gr. Eric. By the ancient custom of this country, the next morning after the wedding-night the
husband bestows upon his wife a gift of money according to his estate, to show how he is pleased
with the cohabitation, and to make some provision, in case of his death before her, for the
wife, and children which he shall have by her; and this we call a morgen-gaven--a morning's gift.

Wh. The same word morgen-gaven is in the old terms of our English laws, and expounded to signify
a second dowry, and hath much affinity with this of yours and in that of your twelve witnesses
who testified the contract of marriage and the morgen-gaven; to which our trials by twelve
men, whom we call juries because they are sworn, are somewhat like, and they are so many witnesses
as well as judges of the fact.

Gr. Eric. I believe your customs and ours had the same original.

Wh. I find much resemblance between them and yours. What do you call the twelve that laid their
hands on the spear?

Gr. Eric. We call them the twelve witnesses (les douze témoins).

Wh. What do you call the spear or pike which the gentleman held?

Gr. Eric. We call it weppun.

Wh. We have the same word, weapon, for all manner of arms and warlike instruments. What do
you call the laying of their hands upon the spear?

Gr. Eric. We call it tack,--weppun-tack, to touch the spear.

Wh. We have also the word tack, for touching; and we have, in the northern parts of England,
a particular precinct or territory which we call a Wapentake, and a territorial court of justice
there which we call a Wapentake Court; and a very learned gentleman from whom I received letters
in my last packet, Selden, derives the name of Wapentake from weapon and tack; and saith they
used to come to that court with their weapons, and to touch one another's weapons, from whence
came the appellation of Wapentake.

Gr. Eric. Tacitus observes that at the public assemblies and councils of the Germans, they
used to meet with their weapons, and when anything was said that pleased them they would touch
one another's spears or weapons, and thereby make a noise, to testify their consent and approbation.

Wh. Your ceremony of laying down the spear at the feet of the bride puts me in mind of another
passage in Tacitus, 'De Moribus Germanorum;' that when a man was married, he used to bring
his arms and lay them at the feet of his bride, to signify that he would not take them up nor
go forth to war, being newly married, without the leave of his wife, to whom he had now given
the command of himself and of his arms.

Gr. Eric. Our customs and those of the ancient Germans have much resemblance; but I never heard
so good observations upon the ceremonies of a wedding as your Excellence hath made.

Wh. I am delighted with these antiquities; but your Excellence shows your opinion to be that
of a brother.

From Grave Eric, Whitelocke went to visit the Senator Schütt, and Lynde, who lodged in one
house, and met him at the door; and this day he made seven visits, besides his attendance upon
the Queen, hastening to get over these matters of compliment and ceremony, that he might be
upon his journey to Stockholm.

May 16, 1654.

[SN: Whitelocke entertains a party of ladies.]

Whitelocke visited General Douglas, who had been to visit him before, and now showed great
respect unto him, and gave him many thanks for the English horse which Whitelocke had bestowed
on him. After this, Whitelocke visited the Ricks-Admiral and the Senators Rosenhau and Bundt.

In the afternoon he visited Woolfeldt, who brought Whitelocke into the room where his lady
and other ladies of great quality were with her. Whitelocke imagined some design to be herein,
because it was a thing so unusual to bring gentlemen and strangers into the company of their
ladies; and it fell out to be so, for Whitelocke, discoursing with the Lady Woolfeldt, who
spake perfect French, she complained that she knew not where to have a place to see the entry
of the Prince into Upsal. Whitelocke knowing his house to be conveniently situate for that
purpose, and understanding the lady's complaint, he, to free her from the danger of not seeing
that solemnity, offered to her and to the rest of the ladies in her company, to command his
house, which if they pleased to honour with their presence to see the entry of the Prince,
he should take it as a great favour from their Excellencies; and the ladies readily accepted
of his offer.

They presently came to Whitelocke's house. With the Lady Woolfeldt was the Countess John Oxenstiern,
the Countess Eric Oxenstiern, the Countess Tott, the Baroness Gildenstiern, and seven or eight
other ladies of great quality. Before the Prince came into the town, Whitelocke caused a collation
to be set on the table for the ladies, all after the English fashion, creams, tarts, butter,
cheese, neats' tongues, potted venison, apples, pears, sweetmeats, and excellent wine. They
ate heartily, and seemed to be much pleased with it and with the Ambassador's discourse, who
strove to be cheerful with the ladies, and found it not unacceptable to them.

[SN: The entry of the Prince.]

The Prince's entry and reception into Upsal this evening was thus:--The day before, by the
Queen's command, notice was given to all the senators, the nobility, gentry, and persons of
quality about the Court and in town, to come in their best equipage on horseback, at one o'clock
this afternoon to the castle, to attend the Queen on her going out to meet the Prince. They
accordingly resorted to the Court, a very great number, and attended the Queen forth in this
order, all passing and returning by Whitelocke's window. First, Major-General Wrangel marched
in the head of four troops of horse of Upland, proper men and well armed, their horses not
tall but strong; every horseman carried ready in his hand one of his pistols, and his sword
by his side, and most of them were well habited. Then marched Colonel Bengt Horne in the head
of the gentlemen and servants of the senators and other volunteers, marching three and three
abreast. After these rode about six of the Queen's kettle-drums and twelve trumpets. Then came
Mr. Eric Flemming, Governor of Copperberg, Marshal of the Nobility, followed by the heads of
the families of the nobles in the same order as they are matriculated in the Ricksdag. They
were generally very rich in clothes and well horsed, lords and gentlemen of principal note
and consideration in their country, and members of the Ricksdag; they also rode three and three
abreast. After them rode Mr. Gabriel Gabrielson, Marshal of the Court, and was followed by
all the senators then in town, being about thirty, riding two and two abreast, grave in their
habits for the most part, and well horsed. Then came the Ricks-Stallmaster and the Hof-Stallmaster--that
is, the Master of the Horse of the Kingdom, and the Master of the Horse of the Court--riding
bareheaded. After them came the Queen, gallantly mounted, habited in her usual fashion in grey
stuff, her hat on her head, her pistols at her saddle-bow, and twenty-four of the Gardes-du-Corps
about her person. After the Queen followed the Great Chamberlain, Grave Jacob de la Gardie,
and Grave Tott, Captain of the Guards, both bareheaded. After them the Grave Donae, Gustavus
Oxenstiern, and Gustavus Jean Banier, riding bareheaded. Then rode all the gentlemen of the
Queen's chamber, then the pages of her chamber. After them, in the last place, marched Colonel
Line, in the head of four companies of the Guards, well armed, and indifferently well habited.

In this order they marched about half a league out of town, to the place appointed to meet
the Prince, who was there attending. When they came thither, Major-General Wrangel marched
to the left, leaving sufficient room that the Guards might pass to the right hand, the volunteers
and Queen's servants likewise turned to the left hand, and the Marshal of the Nobility to the
right, with the Hof-Marshals; and all this train kept excellent order and discipline, as did
the Prince's train, which was also very great.

The Prince was alighted from his horse before the Queen came very near to him. When the Queen
alighted, all the senators likewise alighted from their horses, but the nobility did not alight
from horseback. After his Royal Highness had kissed the Queen's hand, she discoursed a little
with him, he being bareheaded all the time, and showing great respect to her as to his Queen.
Then the Queen mounted again on horseback, the Prince waiting on her. The troops marched back
to the town in the same order as they came forth, with great addition to their numbers. The
Prince's gentlemen and servants, who were a great number, fell into the troop where those of
the Queen were, betwixt her gentlemen and the senators' gentlemen,--his pages after the Queen's.
Himself rode after the Queen, and sometimes she would call him (as she did in the street) to
speak with him, and then he rode even with her, but all the way bareheaded whilst he rode by
the Queen and she talked with him.

The Prince was in a plain grey cloth suit of a light colour, mounted upon a very brave grey
horse, with pistols at his saddle and his sword by his side. The Queen's lacqueys were in rich
yellow liveries; the Prince's lacqueys in blue liveries, near twenty, walking by them. There
were many led horses of the Queen's and of the Prince's, and seven or eight sumpter-horses
of the Prince's; the sumpter-clothes all of blue velvet, with the Prince's arms embroidered
on them, and rich silver fringe about them; the grooms and sumpter-men in the same livery,
about twenty of them.

In this equipage they marched through the streets of Upsal, multitudes of people being spectators
of their entry in the ways and windows. When they came to the Castle court, the nobility and
volunteers alighted, and walked two and two before the Queen up into the great hall and to
the antechamber; and the Queen being come into her withdrawing-room, after some little discourse
there with the Prince and compliments passed, he went to the lodgings prepared for him, with
not a few waiting on him who was the rising sun.

Whitelocke had spoken to the master of the ceremonies touching the saluting of the Prince and
the manner of his reception, whereof he wished to know somewhat beforehand, to govern himself
accordingly, and to avoid any indignity or dishonour to be put upon the Protector and Commonwealth
by his person. The master having spoken to the Prince about it, brought word now to Whitelocke,
that when he moved his Royal Highness touching Whitelocke's reception, the Prince said that
the English Ambassador should have no cause to complain of any want of respect in his reception.
The more to manifest this, about ten o'clock this evening, the Prince sent one of the gentlemen
of his bedchamber, who came attended with three lacqueys, and spake to Whitelocke in French,
that the Prince, his master, commanded him to salute Whitelocke in his name, and to inform
him of the Prince's arrival in this place, and that it was a great satisfaction to him to hope
that he should have the contentment to see the English Ambassador, and to entertain him before
his departure from Sweden.

Whitelocke desired that his thanks might be returned to his Royal Highness for this honour,
and that he hoped to obtain from him the favour to give him leave to salute him and to kiss
his hand; that to do this on the part of the Protector, his master, was at present the only
occasion of Whitelocke's continuance in this place; and for this end he had moved the master
of the ceremonies to know the pleasure of his Royal Highness, and to inform Whitelocke what
time might be convenient to wait upon the Prince. The gentleman replied, that Whitelocke's
company would be very acceptable to the Prince his master, and he doubted not but an account
would be given thereof to Whitelocke to his full contentment.

Whitelocke had sent this day to Grave John Oxenstiern, to know what time he might give him
a visit; and the Grave returned a proud answer, that it would not yet be convenient.

May 17, 1654.

The Resident of Holland came to visit Whitelocke near dinner-time, which gave him occasion
to invite his stay; and he and Sir G. Fleetwood, Mr. Bloome, Colonel Hambleton, Monsieur Lyllicrone,
and two Dutch gentlemen, did Whitelocke the favour to be at his table. Whitelocke gave the
Resident the respect of the upper end of the table, as he had formerly done to the French and
Spanish Residents; and the Dutch gentleman was well pleased with it, and with the English entertainment.

[SN: Whitelocke's audience of the Prince.]

Whitelocke, having received so great a respect from the Prince, did again desire the master
of the ceremonies to know what time might suit with the Prince's leisure to give Whitelocke
leave to wait on him. This afternoon the master came to Whitelocke, and informed him that the
Prince had appointed four o'clock this afternoon to give Whitelocke audience, and the master
said that he would come with the Queen's coaches to bring Whitelocke to the castle when it
was time; and accordingly he came between five and six o'clock this evening. Whitelocke and
his company went with the master to the castle, and as soon as he was alighted out of his coach,
he was received by the Marshal and gentlemen of the Prince, a great number of them, at the
foot of the stairs; some of them were very richly habited. They walked first up the stairs,
and those of Whitelocke's train followed them; the master of the ceremonies was on Whitelocke's
left hand. When they came to the guard-chamber, the Prince in person came thither to receive
Whitelocke at the door thereof, the same place where the Captain of the Queen's Guard used
to meet and receive Whitelocke, who was a little surprised, not expecting such a high favour
as to be met by the Prince so far from the room of audience.

The Prince was plain, in his habit of black silk, accompanied by a great number of the senators,
officers, and nobility, which caused Whitelocke to know him, and with due respect to salute
him, as he did Whitelocke; and after a few compliments between them, the Prince desired Whitelocke
to advance, who excused himself, but the Prince pressed it; the contest was almost half an
hour who should go first, till the master of the ceremonies, by command of the Prince, whispered
to Whitelocke to give way to the pleasure of the Prince, who was resolved to give Whitelocke
the precedence, thereby to testify the great respect and honour which he had for the Protector,
and for Whitelocke his servant. Thereupon Whitelocke said to the Prince, that since he understood
it to be the pleasure of his Royal Highness, he would obey his commands; and so they went on
together, the Prince giving Whitelocke the right hand; and there was no occasion (by reason
of the largeness of the doors) for one to go before the other.

In the third room from the place where the Prince met Whitelocke was the audience chamber;
there were set two rich chairs upon foot-carpets one against the other under a canopy of state;
here was also much ceremony between the Prince and Whitelocke, who should take the right-hand
chair; but the Prince would have Whitelocke to sit there; and the room was full of senators,
officers, noblemen, courtiers, and others of quality.

