A
                            HISTORICAL SURVEY
                                  OF THE
                  CUSTOMS, HABITS, & PRESENT STATE
                                    OF
                               The Gypsies;
                           DESIGNED TO DEVELOPE
                   The Origin of this Singular People,
                              AND TO PROMOTE
                  The Amelioration of their Condition.

                                * * * * *

                             BY JOHN HOYLAND,
        Author of an Epitome of the History of the World, &c.

                      [Picture: Decorative divider]

                                  York:
                   PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR; AND SOLD BY
                         WM. ALEXANDER, YORK:

         DARTON, HARVEY, & CO.; W. PHILLIPS; AND W. DARTON, JUN.
                                 LONDON.

                                * * * * *

                                  1816.

                                * * * * *

                       Entered at Stationers’ Hall.

                                * * * * *

                                * * * * *

Printed by HARGROVE, GAWTHORP, & COBB,
      Herald-Office, York.

INTRODUCTION.

The author of the following Survey, has frequently had opportunity of observing the very destitute
and abject condition of the Gypsey race, in the counties of Northampton, Bedford, and Herts.
The impressions received from viewing a state so derogatory to human nature, induced him to
make numerous inquiries, in order to ascertain if necessity compelled their continuance, under
circumstances so deplorable as their condition exhibited.

Not meeting with satisfactory intelligence on application to various individuals, to whose
observation Gypsies are frequently presented, the author was excited to an examination of history,
for the developement of a case involved in so much obscurity; and aggravated by circumstances
so repugnant to the mild and genial influences of the Christian Religion.

He must not however omit to state, that in Northamptonshire, William Allen, who is in the profession
of the law, at Higham Ferrers, and Steward to Earl Fitzwilliam, very warmly interested himself
on the subject.  He said it afforded him much pleasure to find, that some attention was excited
to the condition of the Gypsies, and that he should be glad to co-operate, as far as was in
his power, in any measures likely to conduce to the reformation of this greatly neglected class
of British subjects.

He volunteered his services to find out the nearest Gypsey rendezvous, and soon procured information
of an encampment which the writer visited. An account of the visit will appear in the following
sheets.  The first assurance that the Gypsies really had a language peculiar to themselves,
which the author received, was from this intelligent and obliging professor of the law, who
had heard children, as well as adults among them, speak it with great fluency.

He also observed, that the situation of this people daily became increasingly deplorable, in
consequence of the establishment of associations for the prosecution of felons; and that the
fear of apprehension as vagrants, and the progressive inclosures near towns and villages, had
a tendency to drive them to a greater distance from the habitations of man.  And he was fully
of opinion, as these houseless wanderers were expelled from Township after Township, without
any provision being made for their refuge, that it was high time their case should obtain the
consideration of the public.

Of the historic authorities whence the author has derived information and interesting observation,
he has to place in the foremost rank, the Dissertation of the learned H. M. G. Grellmann, translated
a few years since, by the late M. Raper, Esq.  F.R.S. & A.S.  He has, however, to acknowledge
himself indebted to various other intelligent authors, whose writings will be noticed in the
course of the work.

Another source of information, and which relates especially to the present state of the Gypsies
in Great Britain, has been opened through inquiries instituted in most parts of the nation,
by the author, aided by several obliging and able coadjutors.  The results of these inquiries,
it scarcely need be added, will be presented to the reader in their proper places.

The author has much regretted, that scarcely any of the splendid histories of Counties in England,
and even those in which the Gypsies abound, have in the least noticed that part of the population
which so strongly claims our attention.  By bringing their situation into view, the historian
might not merely have served the cause of humanity; he would have advanced the interest of
the state, by promoting an object of so much public utility, as the improvement of the whole
Gypsey race cannot fail to prove.

A comparative view of their customs and habits, and how far they appear coincident in different
countries, may afford a criterion by which to judge if they have all had one origin.  By thus
tracing them to that source, we may possibly discover the occasion of their peculiarities;
and if the means hitherto employed to counteract them, have proved unsuccessful, we may be
prepared to consider of others, better adapted to correct the errors of their education.

Conceiving that any scheme for ameliorating the condition of the Gypsies, would not only be
premature, but might prove highly injudicious, before obtaining a knowledge of their history,
the author has endeavoured to collect, from the most authentic European authorities to which
he could have access, a general view of this people, in the different parts of the world to
which they have resorted; and from these and the other sources of information, he has subjoined
accounts of their state in Great Britain, and of the suggestions offered by other individuals
for their improvement; concluding the subject with a review of the whole, and proposing a plan
to be set on foot for accomplishing this desirable object.

CONTENTS.

                              SECTION I.

Various Appellations of them—Their arrival in Europe        page 9

                             SECTION II.

Accounts of the Gypsies in various Countries               page 17

                             SECTION III.

The Habits, Occupations, and Polity of the              page 37 Continental Gypsies

                             SECTION IV.

Political Regulations on the Continent respecting           page 61 Gypsies

                              SECTION V.

The Gypsies in Great Britain                               page 75

                             SECTION VI.

The present State of the Gypsies in Scotland               page 91

                             SECTION VII.

On the Origin of the Gypsies                              page 112

                            SECTION VIII.

Comparative view of the Gypsey, Hindostanie, and       page 131 Turkish languages

                             SECTION IX.

Present State of the Gypsies in England                   page 151

                              SECTION X.

Present State of the Gypsies in and about London          page 175

                             SECTION XI.

Sentiments of various persons on the moral condition of    page 191 the Gypsies

                             SECTION XII.

Review of the Subject, and Suggestions for               page 221 ameliorating the condition
of the Gypsies in the British Empire

SECTION I.

Various appellations of them—Their arrival in Europe.

                                * * * * *

The different appellations by which the People whom we denominate Gypsies, have been distinguished,
appear generally to have had reference to the countries, from which it was supposed they had
emigrated.

Grellmann states, that the French, having the first accounts of them from Bohemia, gave them
the name of Bohémiens, Bohemians.  That the Dutch apprehending they came from Egypt, called
them Heydens, Heathens.  In Denmark, Sweden, and in some parts of Germany, Tartars were thought
of. The Moors and Arabians, perceiving the propensity the Gypsies had to thieving, adopted
the name Charami, Robbers, for them.

In Hungary, they were formerly called Pharaohites, (Pharaoh Nepek) Pharaoh’s people; and the
vulgar in Transylvania continue that name for them.  The idea of the English appears to be
similar, in denominating them Gypsies, Egyptians; as is, that of the Portuguese and Spaniards,
in calling them Gitanos.  But the name Zigeuners, obtained the most extensive adoption, and
apparently not without cause; for the word Zigeuner, signifies to wander up and down—for which
reason, it is said, our German ancestors denominated every strolling vagrant Zichegan.

The Gypsies are called not only in all Germany, Italy, and Hungary Tziganys; but frequently
in Transylvania, Wallachia and Moldavia, Cyganis.  But the Turks, and other Eastern nations
name them, Tschingenes.

The origin of this people has been a subject of inquiry for more than three hundred years.
Many persons have been anxious to discover “who these guests were, that, unknown and uninvited,
came into Europe in the fifteenth century, and have chosen ever since to continue in this quarter
of the globe.”

Continental writers state, that it is incredible how numerous the hordes of this people are,
and how widely dispersed over the face of the earth. They wander about in Asia, the inferior
of Africa, and have established themselves in most of the countries of Europe.  Grellmann is
of opinion, that America is the only part of the world, in which they are not known. Though
no mention appears to be made of them by Authors who have written on that quarter of the globe;
yet no doubt remains, of their having been in Europe nearly four hundred years.

Wilhelm Dilick in his HESZISCHEN Chronik, scit 229, beyn Jahr 1414, informs us they arrived
the same year in the Hessian territories; but no mention of them appears in the public prints
till three years afterward. Mention is made of their being in Germany as early as the year
1417; when they appeared in the vicinity of the North sea.  Fabricius, in Annalibb Misn, says,
they were driven from Meissen in 1416, but Calvisius corrects this date by changing it to 1418.

Sir Thomas Browne in his “Vulgar Errors,” page 287, says, “their first appearance was in Germany,
since the year 1400; nor were they observed before in other parts of Europe, as is deducible
from Munster, Genebrard, Krantzius and Ortelius.”

In Germany they spread so rapidly, that in 1418, their names were recorded in the annual publications
of various parts of the country. They travelled in hordes, each having his leader, sometimes
called Count, others had the title of Dukes, or Lords of Lesser Egypt.

In 1418 they were found in Switzerland, and in the country of the Grisons; and in 1422 they
made their appearance in Italy.  The Bologna Chronicle states, that the hordes which arrived
in that city, on the 18th of July, 1422, consisted of about one hundred men, the name of whose
leader, or Duke as they termed him, was Andreas.  They travelled from Bologna to Forli, intending
to pay the Pope a visit at Rome.

Their appearance in France bears the date of 1427, when the French say, they straggled about
Paris, having arrived on the 17th day of August in that year.

German Historians are agreed, that when the Gypsies first made their appearance in Europe,
they chose to be considered as Pilgrims; and that their profession met with the more ready
belief, as it coincided with the infatuation of the times.  The learned Grellmann states, that
several old writings mention the credulity, with which people cherished the idea, that they
were real pilgrims and holy persons; that it not only procured for them toleration, but safe-conducts
in many places.

Munster declares, that they carried about with them passports and seals from the Emperor Sigismund,
and other Princes; by means of which, they had free passage through different countries and
cities; and that he had himself seen, an attested copy of such a letter to the possession of
some Gypsies at Eberbach.

Krantz, Stumpf, Guler, and Laurentius Palmirenus, all agree in this statement..  The Gypsies
at Bologna also shewed an instrument from Sigismund; but he appears to have granted this to
them, not as Emperor, and in Germany; but in Hungary, and as King of Hungary.  A pass of Uladislaus
II. might also be quoted, which the Gypsies obtained chiefly on account of their supposed sanctity
and pilgrimage.  In Transylvania, it is asserted they received letters of protection from the
House of Bathory.

Webner says, that the Gypsies in France quoted ancient privileges, granted to them by the former
Kings of that country.

Crusius, Wurstisen, and Guler, mention papal permissions for wandering unmolested through all
Christian countries, as long as the term of their pilgrimage lasted; which they asserted was
seven years.  But at the expiration of that term, they represented that their return home was
prevented by soldiers stationed to intercept them.

The impression their pretensions had made on the people among whom they came, did not entirely
subside during half a century; but afterward, “the Gypsies being watched with a more jealous
eye, it appeared but too clearly, that, instead of holy pilgrims, they were the mere refuse
of humanity, who, often, under pretexts of safe-conducts, committed all manner of excesses.”

Their impositions being detected, it is probable some of them were reduced to the necessity
of having recourse to legitimate means of subsistence, for within thirty years afterward, we
have accounts of Gypsies in Hungary being employed in the working of iron.  This occupation,
appears from old writings, to have been a favourite one with them.  Bellonius also takes notice
of its being so; and there is a record of the Hungarian King Uladislaus, in the year 1496,
cited by the Abbé Pray in his Annals; and by Friedwalsky in his Mineralogy, wherein it is ordered,
“That every officer and subject, of whatever rank and condition, do allow to Thomas Polgar,
leader of twenty-five tents of wandering Gypsies, free residence every where, and on no account
to molest him, or his people; because they had prepared military stores for the Bishop Sigismund
at Fünfkirchen.”

                                                                GRELLMANN.

SECTION II.

Accounts of the Gypsies in various countries.

                                * * * * *

To propose means for improving the condition of Gypsies, before we have informed ourselves
of their real state, and what has been done for them, would be as injudicious, as for a Physician
to prescribe for a patient, without being acquainted with the nature or extent of his disease,
and the means attempted for his cure.  To form a just opinion, on the case of the Gypsies,
it appears necessary to ascertain their general habits, and their mode of life.

From Pasquier’s Recherches de la France, B. IV. C. 9, is selected the following account of
the Gypsies in that country: “On August 17th, 1427, came to Paris, twelve Penitents, Penanciers,
as they called themselves, viz: a Duke, an Earl, and ten men, all on horse-back, and calling
themselves good christians.  They were of Lower Egypt, and gave out, that not long before,
the Christians had subdued their country, and obliged them to embrace christianity, on pain
of being put to death.  Those who were baptized, were great Lords in their own country; and
had a King and Queen there.  Some time after their conversion, the Saracens over-ran their
country, and obliged them to renounce christianity.

“When the Emperor of Germany, the King of Poland, and other Christian Princes, heard of this;
they fell upon them, and obliged the whole of them, both great and small, to quit their country,
and go to the Pope at Rome; who enjoined them seven years’ penance, to wander over the world,
without lying in a bed.  They had been wandering five years when they came to Paris; first
the principal people, and soon after the commonalty, about 100, or 120, reduced from 1000,
or 1200, when they came from home; the rest being dead, with their King and Queen.  They were
lodged by the police, out of the city, at Chapel St. Denis

“Nearly all of them had their ears bored, and one or two silver rings in each, which they said
were esteemed ornaments in their country.  The men were black, their hair curled; the women
remarkably black, all their faces scarred, deployez, their hair black, their only clothes a
large old shaggy garment, flossoye, tied over the shoulders with a cloth or cord, sash, lien,
and under it a poor petticoat, roquet.  In short, they were the poorest miserable creatures
that had ever been seen in France; and notwithstanding their poverty, there were among them
women, who by looking into people’s hands told their fortunes.  And what was worse, they picked
people’s pockets of their money; and got it into their own, through telling these things by
art, magic, &c.

“But though this was the common report, I spoke to them several times, yet I never lost a farthing
by them; or ever saw them look into people’s hands.  But the Bishop of Paris, hearing of it,
went to them with a Friar Preacher, named Le petit Jacobin, who, by the Bishop’s order, preached
a sermon excommunicating all the men and women who pretended to believe these things; and had
believed in them, and shown their hands; and it was agreed that they should go away, and they
departed for Pontoise, in September.

“This was copied from an old book in the form of a journal, drawn up by a doctor of divinity
in Paris, which fell into the hands of Pasquier; who remarks upon it, that however the story
of a penance savours of a trick, these people wandered up and down France, under the eye, and
with the knowledge of the magistrates, for 100, or 120 years.  At length, in 1661, an edict
was issued, commanding all officers of justice, to turn out of the kingdom, in the space of
two months, under pain of the gallies, and corporal punishment, all men, women and children,
who assumed the name of Bohémiens, or Egyptians.”

Dufresne, in his Glossary V. Ægyptiaci, confirms Pasquier’s character of them in these words:
“Ægyptiaci, Gallicé Egyptiens, Bohémiens, vagi homines, harioli, et fatidici, qui hac et illac
errantes, ex manu inspectione futura prœsagire se fingunt; ut de marsupiis incautorum nummos
corrogent;” which may be thus translated, “Egyptians called by the French Egyptiens, Bohémiens,
vagabonds, soothsayers and fortune-tellers, who, wandering up and down, pretend to foretel
future events from the inspection of the hand, for the purpose of obtaining money from persons
not careful of their purses, &c.”

Grellmann speaks of Gypsies “being numerous in Lorraine and Alsatia, before the French Revolution,
but especially in the forests of Lorraine. They increased in this district, in consequence
of their having been assiduously looked after in the dominions of the late Duke Deux-Fonts,
and driven from thence; whither his successor would not suffer them to return.  He adds, that
an order of the provincial council, held at Tarragona, in 1591, subjected them to the magistrates,
as people “quos vix constat esse Christianos, nisi ex eorum relatione, cum tamen sint mendaces,
fures, deceptores, et aliis sceleribus multi eorum assueti;” in English, “who are scarcely
allowed to be Christians, except from their own account of themselves, seeing they are liars,
thieves, cheats, and many of them accustomed to other kinds of wickedness.”

Twiss, in his Travels p. 179, gives the following account of them in Spain: “They are very
numerous about, and in, Murcia, Cordova, Codis, and Ronda.  The race of these vagabonds is
found in every part of Europe. The French call them Bohémiens, the Italians Zingari, the Germans
Ziegeuners, the Dutch Heydenen, Pagans, the Portuguese Siganos, and the Spaniards Gitanos,
in Latin, Cingari.

“Their language, which is peculiar to themselves, is every where so similar, that they are
undoubtedly all derived from the same source. They began to appear in Europe in the 15th century,
and are probably a mixture of Egyptians and Ethiopians.  The men are all thieves, and the women
libertines.  They follow no certain trade, and have no fixed religion.  They do not enter into
the order of society, wherein they are only tolerated.  It is supposed there are upwards of
forty thousand of them in Spain; great numbers of them are innkeepers in the villages, and
small towns; and they are every where fortune-tellers.

“In Spain, they are not allowed to possess any lands, nor even to serve as soldiers.  They
marry among themselves, stroll in troops, about the country, and bury their dead under water.
Their ignorance prevents their employing themselves in any thing, but in providing for the
immediate wants of nature; beyond which even their roguishness does not extend; and, only endeavouring
to save themselves the trouble of labour, they are contented if they can procure food by showing
feats of dexterity; and only pilfer to supply themselves with the trifles they want; so that
they never render themselves liable to any severer chastisement, than that of whipping, for
having stolen chickens, linen, &c.  Most of the men have a smattering of physic and surgery,
and are skilful in tricks performed by slight of hand.”

“The foregoing account is partly extracted from Le Voyageur François, Vol. XVI.; but the assertion
that they are all so abandoned, as that author says, is too general.  I have lodged many times
in their houses, and never missed the most trifling things, though I have left my knives, forks,
candlesticks, spoons, and linen at their mercy.”

Swinburne states, that “they swarm more in the province of Granada, than in any other part
of the realm.  This singular sect have kept themselves separate from the rest of mankind ever
since their first appearance which has been recorded in history.

“Their origin remains a problem not to be satisfactorily solved; and I doubt whether the Gitanos
themselves, have any secret tradition that might lead to a discovery of what they really were
in the beginning, or from what country they came.  The received opinion sets them down as Egyptians,
and makes them out to be the descendants of those vagabond votaries of Isis, who appear to
have exercised, in ancient Rome, pretty much the same profession as that followed by the present
Gypsies, viz: fortune-telling, strolling up and down, and pilfering.

“Few of them employed themselves in works of husbandry, or handicrafts; indeed the Spaniards
would not work with them.  Except a small part of them who follow the trades of blacksmiths,
and vintners, most of them are makers of iron rings, and other little trifles, rather to prevent
their being laid hold of as vagrants, than really as a means of subsistence. Several of them
travel about as carriers and pedlars.

“Though they conform to the Roman Catholic mode of worship, they are looked upon in the light
of unbelievers; but I never could meet with any body that pretended to say what their private
faith and religion may be. All the Gypsies I have conversed with, assured me of their sound
Catholicism; and I have seen the medal of Nuestra Senora del Carmel sewed on the sleeves of
several of their women.

“They seldom venture on any crimes that may endanger their lives; petty larceny is the utmost
extent of their roguishness.

“The men are tall, well built, and swarthy, with a bad scowling eye, and a kind of favorite
lock of hair left to grow down before their ears, which rather increases the gloominess of
their features; their women are nimble and supple jointed; when young they are generally handsome,
with fine black eyes.  Their ears and necks are loaded with trinkets and baubles, and most
of them wear a large patch on each temple.”

Of the Italian Gypsies, the same traveller in his journey through Calabria, p. 304, gives the
following account: “The landlord of the inn at Mirti, earnestly recommended to the servants
to leave nothing out of doors, as there was an encampment of Zingari, or Gypsies, who would
lay their hands upon any part of the baggage, that was not watched with the strictest attention.
His caution led me to an inquiry into the state of this strange tribe of vagrants, of whom
I had seen great numbers in Spain.  The result of this account, combined with those I had received
from others, is as follows:

“The Gypsies of Calabria do not contract alliances with any other class of inhabitants; but
marry among themselves.

“It is not possible to say where they reside, as they have no fixed habitations; and consequently
possess neither house nor land, but pitch their tents wherever they think proper to make any
stay.  They support life by the profits of handicrafts; but more by swapping asses and horses.

“They generally work in iron, and make trivets, knitting needles, bodkins, and such trifles.
Their dress is extremely shabby; they shave their chins, but indulge a great length of hair,
which they seldom disturb with either comb or scissars.

“As to their religion, it is a secret which they keep locked up in their own breasts.  They
seem to have no great veneration for the Virgin Mary, but are supposed to believe in Christ.
All the proof we have of their belief, depends upon appearances, and an occasional conforming
to the ceremonies of the Roman Catholic religion, in marriages, burials, &c.; but if the priests
start any difficulties, they manage the matter without their interference, and perform the
functions according to their own ceremonies, which in many points resemble those of the heathens.

“At their weddings they carry torches, and have paranymphs to give the bride away, with many
other unusual rites.

“It is in reality, almost absurd to talk of the religion of a set of people, whose moral characters
are so depraved, as to make it evident they believe in nothing capable of being a check to
their passions.  They are usually accounted pilferers, cheats, faithless, and abandoned to
dissoluteness.

“They tell fortunes, and play juggling tricks, just as they do in all other countries where
they are to be found.  In 1560, they were banished the kingdom as thieves, cheats, and spies
for the Turks.  In 1569 and 1685, the order was resumed, but not being enforced, had little effect.

“A Gypsey being brought to trial for a larceny, declared, that his law allowed him to take
as much from others, every day, as sufficed for his maintenance.

“These people make use of two languages, one Calabrian, with a foreign accent and pronunciation;
the other a peculiar one of their own, which in sound, seems to have great affinity to the
Oriental tongues; and is spoken when they have secrets to impart to each other.  They sleep
like dogs in a kennel, men, women, and children huddled together.”

The learned Grellmann states, that “Gypsies were universally to be found in Italy; insomuch,
that even Sicily and Sardinia were not free from them.

“But they were the most numerous in the dominions of the church; probably because there was
the worst police, with much superstition.  By the former they were left undisturbed; and the
latter enticed them to deceive the ignorant, as it afforded them an opportunity of obtaining
a plentiful contribution, by their fortune-telling and enchanted amulets.

“There was a general law throughout Italy, that no Gypsey should remain more than two nights,
in any one place.  By this regulation, it is true, no place retained its guest long; but no
sooner was one gone, than another came in his room.  It was a continual circle, and quite as
convenient to them, as a perfect toleration would have been.  Italy rather suffered, than benefited,
by this law; as, by keeping those people in constant motion, they would do more mischief there,
than in places where they were permitted to remain stationary.”

It appears from the Dissertation of Grellmann, that he had examined with great care and attention,
the continental authorities on the subject of Gypsies.  He asserts, that “In Poland and Lithuania,
as well as in Courland, there is an amazing number of Gypsies.

“That they are to be found in Denmark and Sweden, is certain, but how numerous they are in
those countries we cannot pronounce, and therefore proceed to the south east of Europe.

“The countries in this part seem to be the general rendezvous of the Gypsies; their number
amounts in Hungary, according to a probable statement, to upwards of 50,000.

“Cantemir says, the Gypsies are dispersed all over Moldavia, where every Baron has several
families of them subject to him.

“In Wallachia and the Sclavonian mountains, they are quite as numerous. Bessarabia, all Tartary,
Bulgaria, Greece, and Romania, swarm with them; even in Constantinople they are innumerable.
In Romania, a large tract of Mount Hæmus, which they inhabit, has acquired from them the name
Tschenghe Valkan, the Gypsey mountain.  This district extends from the city Aydos, quite to
Phillipopolis, and contains more Gypsies than any other province in the Turkish empire.”

Our countryman Edward Daniel Clark, in his travels in Russia, Tartary, &c. so lately as the
year 1800, states, “that after the ceremony of the resurrection at Moscow, a party of Gypsies
were performing the national dance, called Barina; others were telling fortunes, according
to their universal practice, or begging for presents of oranges or ice.

“This extraordinary people, found in all parts of Europe, were originally one of the Castes
of India, driven out of their territory, and distinguished among Indian tribes, by a name which
signifies thieves. They have a similar appellation among the Fins, and with the same signification.

“They preserve every where the same features, manners, and customs, and what is more remarkable,
almost always the same mode of dress.  The extraordinary resemblance of the female Gypsies
to the women of India, was remarked by the British officers and men, in Egypt, when General
Baird arrived with his army to join Lord Hutchinson.  The Sea-poys had many of their women
with them, who were exactly like our Gypsies.

“In their dress, they lavish all their finery upon their heads.  Their costume in Russia is
very different to that of the natives.  The Russians hold them in great contempt; never speaking
of them without abuse; and feel themselves contaminated by their touch, unless it be to have
their fortunes told.  Formerly they were more scattered over Russia, and paid no tribute; but
now they are collected, and all belong to one nobleman, to whom they pay a certain tribute,
and work among the number of his slaves.”

P. 209, he writes: “At Woronetz, the Gypsey tribe are very prevalent, and a mixed race, resulting
from their intermarriage with the Russians.”

Dr. Clarke observes, Chap. 18, p. 440, 441 of his Travels, between Kertchy and Caffa, in the
Crimea: “In the villages we found parties of Tzigankies or Gypsies, encamped as we see them
in England, but having their tents stationed between their waggons, in which they move about
the country.

“Poultry, cats, dogs, and horses, were feeding all round them, seeming like members of the
same family.  The Gypsies are much encouraged by the Tartars, who allow them to encamp in the
midst of their villages, where they exercise the several functions of smiths, musicians, and
astrologers.  Many of them are wealthy, possessing fine horses, and plenty of other cattle;
but their way of life, whether rich or poor, is always the same.  As we entered their tents
they arose, and cast a sheep’s hide over their bodies.  The filth and stench of these people
were abominable.”

In the second, part of his Travels, p. 644, he writes respecting the Gypsies: “We found this
people in Nauplia, under the name they bear in Moldavia, of Tchinganes.  How they came thither
no one knew; but the march of their ancestors, from the North of India to Europe, so lately
as the beginning of the 15th century, will account for their not being found further towards
the South; and this is now so well ascertained, that no one would expect to meet a Gypsey,
upon any of the southern shores of the Mediterranean.

“To have found them in the Peloponnesus is rather remarkable, considering that their whole
tribe at first did not exceed half a million.”

In the travels, written by Bell, of Antermony, Vol. 2, p. 157, he states: “During my stay at
Tobolski, I was informed that a large troop of Gypsies had been lately at that place, to the
number of sixty or upwards.  The Russians call these vagabonds, Tziggany.  Their sorry baggage
was carried upon horses and asses.  The Vice-Governor sent for the chief of this gang, and
demanded whither they were going.  They answered to China. He stopped their progress and sent
them back.”

“Bishop Pococke met with these people, still further to the Eastward.  He says, the Chingani,
who are spread all over the world, are in great abundance in the North of Syria, and pass for
Mahometans.  They live under tents, and sometimes in grots under ground.

“They make a coarse sort of tapestry, or carpet work, for hangings of saddles and other uses;
and when they are not far from towns, deal much in cattle, and have a much better character
than their relations in Hungary, and the Gypsies in England; who are thought by some to have
been originally of the same tribe.

“These and the Turcomen, with regard to offence, are under the Pasha and Cadi; though they
have a sheik to every encampment, and several great ones over them: but with regard to taxes,
they are immediately under the Grand Seignior; whose tribute is collected yearly, by an officer
over each of these people; one being called the Turcoman-Agasi, an officer of great credit,
and the other the Chingani-Agasi, who go round the Turkish dominions to collect the taxes from
these people.”  Travels, Vol. 2, Part 1, p. 207, 208.

Grellmann says: “Independently of the number of Gypsies in Egypt, and some parts of Asia, could
we obtain an exact estimate of them in the countries of Europe, the immense number would probably
greatly exceed what we have any idea of.  At a moderate calculation, without being extravagant,
they might be reckoned at between seven and eight hundred thousand.

“What a serious matter of consideration, when we reflect that the greatest part of these people,
are idlers, cheats, and thieves!

“What a field does this open for the contemplation of Governments!”

SECTION III.

The Habits, Occupations, and Polity of Continental Gypsies.

                                * * * * *

The first of them that came to Europe, appeared ragged and miserable, unless we allow their
leaders to have been an exception.  In like manner their descendants have continued for hundreds
of years, and still remain. This is particularly remarkable in the countries about the mouth
of the Danube, which abound with Gypsies; namely Transylvania, Hungary, and Turkey, in Europe;
where they dress even more negligently than in other parts.

It is a fact that these people enjoy a good state of health more uninterruptedly, and perfectly,
than persons of the most regular habits, and who pay the greatest attention to themselves.
Neither wet nor dry weather, heat nor cold, let the extremes follow each other ever so quickly,
seem to have any effect upon them.  Any prevailing sickness, or epidemical disorder, sooner
penetrates into ten habitations of civilized people, than finds its way into a Gypsey’s tent.

Though they are fond of a great degree of heat, and to lie so near the fire, as to be in danger
of burning, yet they can bear to travel in the severest cold, bareheaded, with no other covering
than some old rags carelessly thrown over them.

The causes of these bodily qualities, or at least some of them, evidently arise from their
education, and hardy manner of life.

The pitiless mother takes her three months old child on her back, and wanders about, in fair
and foul weather, in heat or cold; there it sits winter and summer, in a linen rug, with its
head over her shoulder. Gypsey women never use a cradle, nor even possess such a piece of furniture.
The child sleeps in their arms, or on the ground.  When a boy attains three years of age, his
lot becomes still harder.  Whilst an infant, and his age reckoned by weeks and months, he was
wrapt in rags, but now deprived of these, he is equally with his parents, exposed to the rigour
of the elements, for want of covering; he is now put to trial how far his legs will carry him;
and must be content to travel about with, at most, no other defence for his feet than thin socks.

Thus he acquires a robust constitution by hardships and misery; but though the children of
Gypsies do not partake of what the refinements of art and of tenderness would account advantages,
writers are unanimous in stating, they are good-looking, well-shaped, lively, clever, and have
fine eyes.  The Gypsies, in common with uncivilized people, entertain unbounded love for their
children.  This is a source of inexcusable neglect: Gypsey children never feel the rod, they
fly into the most violent passions, and at the same time hear nothing from their parents but
flattering and coaxing.  In return they act with ingratitude, as is commonly the consequence
of such education.

Gypsies would long ago have been divested of their swarthy complexions, had they discontinued
their filthy mode of living.

Experience shows that their dark colour, which is continued from generation to generation,
is more the effect of education, and manner of life, than of descent.  Among those who serve
in the Imperial army, where they have learned to pay attention to order and cleanliness, there
are many to be found, whose extraction is not at all discernible in their colour; though they
had, probably, remained to the age of twelve or fourteen years under the care of their filthy
parents.

A Gypsey considers a covering for the head as useless, and if he does not obtain socks, which
the female Gypsies in Moldavia and Wallachia knit with wooden needles for the feet, he winds
rags about them, which are laid aside in summer.  He is not better furnished with linen, as
the women neither spin, sew, nor wash.  But this inattention is not from indifference about
dress; on the contrary, they are particularly fond of clothes, which have been worn by people
of distinction.  The following, which appeared in the Imperial Gazette, is very much to the
purpose: “Notwithstanding these people are so wretched, that they have nothing but rags to
cover them, which do not at all fit, and are scarcely sufficient to hide their nakedness; yet
they betray their foolish taste, and vain ostentation, whenever they have in opportunity.”
The women are as fond of dress as the men, and equally expose themselves to the ridicule of
the considerate and reflecting part of mankind.

They are remarkable not only in hanging their ragged clothes about them instead of garments,
according to the Eastern custom; but their whole arrangement is singular.  Several of their
leaders have horses, asses, or mules with them, on which they load their tents and effects,
with their whole family also.  They have likewise dogs in their train, with which Krantz asserts
they are used illegally, to destroy game; but probably the dogs are not kept so much for that
purpose, as to take fowls and geese.

One strange peculiarity in the ideas of Gypsies we have hitherto forborn to mention, but, disgusting
as the task of recording it way be, it is so well authenticated, as to have excited the notice
of the Hungarian Legislature; and as it will be found to have some reference to the origin
of this singular race of human beings, it must not be withheld from public view.  The greatest
luxury to them is, when they can procure a roast of cattle that have died of any distemper:
to eat their fill of such a meal, is to them the height of epicurism.  When any person censures
their taste, or shows surprise at it, they say: “The flesh of a beast which God kills, must
be better than that of one killed by the hand of man.”  They therefore embrace every opportunity
of obtaining such dainties.

They are particularly fond of animals that have died by fire; therefore, whenever a conflagration
has happened, the next day, the Gypsies from every neighbouring quarter assemble, and draw
the suffocated, half-consumed beasts out of the ashes; men, women, and children, in troops,
joyfully carrying the flesh home to their dwellings.

The Gypsies in Hungary, who have settled habitations, are very partial to gold and silver plate,
particularly silver cups, which is a disposition they have in common with the wandering tribes.
They let slip no opportunity of acquiring something of this kind; and will even starve themselves
to procure it.  Though they seem little anxious to heap up riches for their children, yet these
frequently inherit a treasure of this sort; and are obliged in their turn to preserve it as
a sacred inheritance.  This inclination to deprive themselves of necessaries that they may
possess a superfluity, as well as many others of their customs, is curious, yet appears to
be ancient; and it was probably inherent in them when they were first seen by Europeans.

Historians assert, that of all the different people who have migrated into foreign countries,
a single instance is not to be found, which accords with that of the Gypsies.  The religious
rites and observances of the Jews were calculated to prevent their imbibing the customs and
habits of other nations.  But it is universally admitted, that Gypsies did not bring any particular
religion with them from their native country, by which they could be distinguished among other
people; being as inconstant and unsettled respecting religion, as they are to place of residence.

Indeed it is asserted, that no Gypsey has any idea of submission to any fixed profession of
faith; that patents suffering their children to grow up as themselves, without education or
instruction, they acquire little knowledge either of morality or justice; that few of them
wilt attend to any discourse on religion, but they hear it with indifference, if not with impatience
and repugnance.  Despising all remonstrance; they endeavour to live without the least solicitude
concerning a future state of being.

The Turks are so fully convinced of the little religious sincerity possessed by Gypsies, that
although a Jew, by becoming a Mahometan, is freed from the payment of the Charadsch, the Gypsies
are not; at least in the neighbourhood of Constantinople, they are compelled to pay the poll-tax,
even though their ancestors for centuries had been Mahometans, or though they should actually
have been a pilgrimage to Mecca.  The privilege of wearing a white turban, is the only advantage
their conversion gives them, over unbelieving Jews and Gypsies.

Among warlike nations, many instances have occurred, in which the people subdued, being more
enlightened than their conquerors, the latter have adopted the manners of the former.  After
the conquest of Greece, the Romans assumed the manners of the Greeks; and the Turks in like
manner assumed those of the Gauls.  The Mancheans vanquished the Chinese, but Chinese customs
prevailed over those of the Mancheans.

                                                              Grellmann.

Our countryman Dr. Clarke, page 4, of part the second of his Travels in Greece, says: “There
is every reason to believe that the Turks themselves, at the conquest of Constantinople, adopted
many of the customs, and embraced many of the refinements of a people they had subdued.

“Their former habits had been those of nomad tribes, their dwellings were principally tents,
and the camp, rather than the city, distinguished their abode.”

But Grellmann observes, Gypsies who have not established themselves by force in any country,
nor obtained toleration from any Government, remain unchanged.  Though they behold fixed dwellings
on every side of them, with settled inhabitants, they nevertheless, proceed in their own way,
and continue, for the most part, unsocial, houseless wanderers.

To their excessive indolence and aversion to industry, may be attributed the poverty and want
which are generally their lots.  They dislike every kind of employment which requires application;
and had rather suffer hunger and nakedness, than provide against these privations, on the conditions
of labour.  They therefore practise music and palmistry, which allows them many idle hours;
or addict themselves to vicious habits and unlawful courses.  Though no one of them marries
a person who is not of Gypsey extraction, there is not any people among whom marriage is contracted
with less consideration, or accomplished with less solemnity.

Some Gypsies, who are stationary, have regular habitations, according to their situation in
life.  To this class belong those who keep public-houses in Spain; and others in Transylvania
and Hungary, who follow some regular business; which latter have their own miserable huts near
Hermanstadt, Cronstadt, Beatritz, Grosswaradein, Debrezin, Eperies, Karchan, and other places.
But by far the greater number of these people, lead a very different kind of life; ignorant
of the comforts attending a fixed place of residence, they rove from one district to another
in hordes; having no habitation, but tents, holes in the rocks, or caves: the former shade
them in summer, the latter screen them in winter.

Many of these people, particularly in Germany and Spain, do not even carry tents with them,
but shelter themselves from the heat of the sun, in forests shaded by the rocks, or behind
hedges.  They are very partial to willows, under which they erect their sleeping places at
the close of the evening.  Some live in their tents, in their language called Tschater, during
both summer and winter; which latter indeed the Gypsies generally prefer.

In Hungary, those who have discontinued their rambling way of life, and built houses for themselves,
seldom let a spring pass without taking advantage of the first settled weather, to set up a
tent for their summer residence.  Under this, each enjoys himself with his family, nor thinks
of his house till winter returns, and the frost and snow drive him back to it.

The wandering Gypsey in Hungary and Transylvania, endeavours to procure a horse; in Turkey,
an ass serves to carry his wife and a couple of children, with his tent.  When he arrives at
a place he likes, near a village, or a city, he unpacks, pitches his tent, ties his animal
to a stake to graze, and remains some weeks there: or if he do not find his station convenient,
he breaks up in a day or two, loads his beast, and looks out for a more agreeable situation.
His furniture seldom consists of more than an earthen pot, an iron pan, a spoon, a jug and
a knife; with sometimes the addition of a dish.  These serve for the whole family.

Working in iron is the most usual occupation of the Gypsies.  In Hungary, this profession is
so common, that there is a proverb: “So many Gypsies so many smiths.”

The same may be said of those in Transylvania, Wallachia, Moldavia, and all Turkey in Europe;
at least such workers in fire are very numerous in all those countries.  But the Gypsies of
our time, are not willing to work heavy works; they seldom go beyond a pair of light horse
shoes.  In general, they confine themselves to small articles, such as rings and nails; they
mend old pots and kettles; make knives, seals, and needles; and sometimes they work in tin
and brass.  Their materials, tools, and apparatus, are of a very inferior kind.  The anvil
is a stone; the other implements are a pair of hand bellows, a hammer, a pair of pincers, a
vice, and a file.  These ape the tools which a Nomadic Gypsey takes with him in his perambulations.

Whenever he is disposed to work, he is at no loss for fuel: on his arrival at a station where
he proposes to remain a few days, he takes his beast, loads him with wood, builds a small kiln,
and prepares his own coal.  In favourable weather, his work is carried on in the open air;
when it is stormy, he retires under his tent.  He does not stand, but sits down on the ground
cross-legged to his work; which position is rendered necessary, not only by custom, but by
the quality of his tools. The wife sits by to work the bellows, in which operation she is assisted
by the elder children.  The Gypsies are generally praised for their dexterity and quickness,
notwithstanding the bad tools they have to work with.

Another branch of commerce much followed by Gypsies, is horse-dealing, to which they have been
attached from the earliest period of their history. In those parts of Hungary, where the climate
is so mild, that horses may lie out all the year, the Gypsies avail themselves of this circumstance
to breed, as well as to deal in horses; by which they sometimes not only procure a competency,
but grew rich.  Instances have been known on the Continent, of gypsies keeping from fifty to
seventy horses each; and those the best bred horses of the country; some of which they let
out for hire, others they exchange or sell.  But this description of Gypsey horse-dealers is
not numerous; the greater number of them deal in inferior kinds.

In addition to the two professions before-mentioned, commonly followed by the men, some of
them employ themselves as carpenters and turners; the former making watering troughs and chests;
the latter turn, trenchers and dishes; make sieves, spoons, and other trifling articles, which
they hawk about.  Many of them, as well as the smiths, find constant employment in the houses
of the better sort of people; for whom they work the year round.  They are not paid in money,
but beside other advantages find a certain subsistence.

Those who are not thus circumstanced, do not wait at home for customers, but with their implements
in a sack thrown over their shoulders, seek business in the cities and villages.  When any
one calls, they throw down the bundle, and prepare the apparatus for work, before the door
of their employer.

The Gypsies have a fixed dislike to agriculture; and had rather suffer hunger, or any privation,
than follow the plough.  Since the year 1768, the Empress Theresa has commanded that the Hungarian,
and Transylvanian Gypsies should be instructed in husbandry; but these orders have been very
little regarded.  At this time there are so few of them farmers in those parts, that they are
undeserving of notice.  In Spain and other European countries, it would be difficult to find
one who had ever made a furrow in his life.

Respecting fortune-telling, with which the female Gypsies impose on people’s credulity in every
district and corner of Europe, the origin, of the imposition is not to be attributed to them:
the cheat was known and practised in Europe before their arrival; being deeply rooted in the
ignorance of the middle age.  The science of divination here was said to be already brought
to a greater degree of perfection than among them. Rules were invented to tell lies from the
inspection of the hand, in which the poor Gypsies were accounted mere bunglers.  They in the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries were esteemed supernumeraries; there being men of great
learning, who not only read lectures in Colleges on the art of chiromancy; but wrote many books,
vilifying these people, and endeavouring to spoil their market.  But these wise men are no
more; their knowledge is deposited in the dead archives of literature; and probably had there
been no Gypsies, with them would have died the belief in chiromancy, as is the case with respect
to astrology, necromancy, oneirocritica, and the other offspring of imbecile fancy.

We must not omit to mention the occupation of gold-washing, by which thousands of Gypsies,
of both sexes, in the Banat, Transylvania, Wallachia, and Moldavia, procure a livelihood in
summer; who, in winter, make trays and troughs, which they sell in an honest way.

It is not permitted for every one, without exception, to be a gold-washer; such only can follow
the employment as have permission from the office of Mons, where a College was established
by the Empress Theresa, in 1748.  In the seventh article of instructions granted, the Gypsies
were allowed the privilege of washing for gold, for which each person pays a tribute to Government.

The gold-washers in Transylvania and the Banat, pay four guilders annually in gold dust.  The
tribute collected in Wallachia and Moldavia does not go into the public treasury, but belongs
to the Princesses for pin-money.

The consort of the Wallachian Hospodar, Stephen Rakowitza, in the year 1764, received from
her Rudars, being two hundred and forty in number, twelve hundred and fifty-four drachms. 
The gold-washers in the Banat and Transylvania, dispose of their shares at the Royal Redemption-Office,
in Zalatuya.  The earnings of these people vary with time, and at different places; during
heavy rains and floods they are usually most successful. The Transylvanian rivers yield the
most gold.  It is said, all the rivers and brooks which the rain forms, produce gold; of these
the river Aranyasch is the richest; insomuch, that Historians have compared it to the Tagus
and Pactolus.

                                                              Grellmann.

In Travels through the Banat of Temeswar, Transylvania, and Hungary, in the year 1770, described
in a series of letters to Professor Ferber, on the mines and mountains of these different countries,
by Baron Inigo Born, Counsellor of the Royal Mines, in Bohemia, page 76, is the following account:

“Observations on the Gold-washings, in the Banat, by Counsellor Koezian. Translated by R. E. Ruspe.

“After the several natural advantages of the Temeswar Banat, some of its rivers are known to
yield gold dust; I could not neglect the object when I travelled in these parts.

“The gold-washing in the Banat, is properly the business of the Gypsies, Zigeuner, and left,
as it were, to this poor people, as an exclusive trade.  This laid me under the necessity of
applying to them for instruction.

“The river Nera, in Almash, carries gold dust; and seemed to me the fittest for my purpose;
accordingly I caused some Gypsies, reputed to be skilful, to make a washing, near a village
called Boshowitz; and I saw with pleasure, that with much dexterity, and in a few minutes time,
they cleared in the trough, the value of some groshes of gold: they showed me likewise among
their gold dust, some pieces of remarkable bigness.”

It has been stated, that when Gypsies first arrived in Europe, they had leaders and chiefs
to conduct their various tribes in their migrations.

Grellmann says, this was necessary, not only to facilitate their progress through different
countries and quarters of the globe; but to unite their force, if necessary, and thereby enable
them to make a more formidable resistance when opposed; and likewise, to carry any plan they
might have formed, more regularly into effect.

We accordingly find in old books, mention made of Knights, Counts, Dukes, and Kings, among
this people.  Crucius cites a Duke, Michael; Muratorio, a Duke, Andreas: and Arentinus records
a King, Zindelo: not to speak of inscriptions on monuments erected in different places to the
memories of Duke, Panuel; Count, Johannis; and a Knight, Petrus, in the fifteenth century.

But no comment is necessary to show how improperly these appellations were applied.  Though
the Gypsey chiefs might be gratified with such titles; and their descendants probably esteemed
them persons of rank, it was merely a ridiculous imitation of what they had seen, and perhaps
admired, among civilized people.  Nevertheless, the custom of having leaders and chiefs over
them, prevails to this time, at least in Hungary and Transylvania; probably it may also still
exist in Turkey, and other countries, where these people live together in great numbers.

Their chiefs, or waywodes, were formerly of two degrees in Hungary.  Each petty tribe had its
own leader, beside which, there were four superior waywodes, of their own caste, on both sides
the Danube and Teisse; whose residences were at Raab, Lewentz, Szathmar, and Kaschan; and to
these the smaller waywodes were accountable.  But now, only one superior waywode is appointed
in all Transylvania, who has authority over the gold-washers in those parts.  The Gypsies,
however, still continue the custom among themselves, of choosing certain persons, whom they
make heads over them, and call by the exalted Sclavonian title of waywode.

It would appear extraordinary, that any well-regulated state should allow these people a distinct
establishment in the heart of the country; did not the Hungarian writers assign as a reason,
that in the commotions and troubles occasioned by the Turkish wars, in former centuries, they
were, by means of their waywode, more easily summoned when occasion required, and rendered
useful to the community.

In Transylvania, the magistrates do interfere with regard to the person whom this or that horde
hath elected chief, and impose an obligation on him; but it is only that he should be careful
to prevent his subjects from absconding, when the time arrives for them to discharge their
annual tribute at the Land Regent’s chamber.  He has no right to interfere in disputes or quarrels
which the Gypsies have among themselves, or with other people, further than to give notice
of them to the regular courts of the district, where they happen to be.

                                                                Grellmann.

SECTION IV.

Political Regulations on the Continent, respecting Gypsies.

                                * * * * *

To the ignorance and superstition of the middle age, must be attributed the powerful ascendency
which the Gypsies obtained over the minds of men. In addition to the chiromantic deception,
practised by the women, they followed also the profession of exorcism; and were greatly in
request during the prevalence of a belief in witchcraft.

They were employed to cure bewitched cattle, and to loosen the spells of enchantment; for which
they had nostrums of various kinds, consisting of roots and amulets, made of unfermented dough,
marked with strong figures, and dried in the sun.

For a long time little attention was paid to them, but at last the evil became enormous, and
complaints against them were so loud, that Governments were constrained to take official notice
of them.  Exemplary punishments were judged necessary; and, at length, the most cruel and barbarous
kinds were resorted to.  What a blot upon the history of those times, are the dreadful tortures
of quartering alive, and breaking upon the wheel!  These means being insufficient to prevent
the perpetration of crimes; it was thought expedient to banish the Gypsies.

German waiters say, that King Ferdinand of Spain, who esteemed it a good work to expatriate
useful and profitable subjects—Jews, and even Moorish families—could much less be guilty of
an impropriety in laying hands on the mischievous progeny of Gypsies.  The edict for their
extermination, was published in the year 1492.  But instead of passing the boundaries, they
only slunk into hiding-places, and shortly after appeared in as great numbers as before.

The Emperor Charles V. persecuted them afresh; as did Philip II. also. Since that time they
have nestled in again, and have been also threatened with another storm, but it has blown over
without taking effect.

In France, Francis I. passed an edict for their expulsion; and at the Assembly of the States
of Orleans, in 1561, all Governors of cities received orders to drive them away with fire and
sword.  Nevertheless, in process of time, they had collected again, and increased to such a
degree, that, in 1612, a new order came out for their extermination.

In the year 1572, they were compelled to retire from the territories of Milan and Parma; and
at a period somewhat earlier, they were chased beyond the Venetian jurisdiction.  They were
not allowed the privilege of remaining unmolested in Denmark, as the code of Danish law specifies:
“The Tartars, Gypsies, who wander about every where, doing great damage to the people, by their
lies, thefts, and witchcraft, shall be taken into custody by every magistrate.”

Sweden was not more favourable, having attacked them at three different times: A very sharp
order for their expulsion came out in 1662.  The Diet of 1723 published a second, and that
of 1727, repeated the foregoing with additional severity.

They were excluded from the Netherlands under pain of death, partly by Charles the Vth, and
afterwards by the United States, in 1582.  But the greatest number of sentences of exile, have
been pronounced against them in Germany.

Several Princes were however so little attentive to these orders of the empire, that instead
of endeavouring to drive out the Gypsies, they on the other hand, furnished them with passports
and safe-conducts; but by far the greater number exerted themselves to the utmost, to clear
their states of them.

Perhaps there is not any civilized state, Hungary and Transylvania excepted, where this remedy
has not been tried; but in the first place it had very little effect, and that little was only
temporary.  Even if every civilized nation had driven out the Gypsies at the same time, Europe
could not have been entirely cleared of them, so long as they preserved an asylum in Turkey.
Now as experience evinces there is no country in which a constant, equal attention, is paid
to the execution of the laws, they would, in more, or less time, have again insinuated themselves
into the neighbouring countries; from these into others; and have recommenced where they left off.

But a general extermination never did take place.  The law for banishing them passed in one
state before it was thought of in the next, or when a like order had long become obsolete,
and sunk into oblivion.  These guests were therefore merely compelled to shift their quarters
to an adjoining state, where they remained till the Government, there, began to clear them
away, upon which the fugitives either retired back whence they came, or went on progressively
to a third place, thus making a continual revolution.

Secondly, this remedy was premature: endeavouring to exterminate, was the same as if a surgeon
should proceed directly to the amputation of a diseased limb, because it created inconvenience
to the rest of the body. Whereas the first inquiry ought to be, whether the disorder is of
such a nature as not to be removed, but by entire separation.  This is a desperate course,
and should only be adopted, when no other can be efficacious.

It is to be regretted that, not until the reign of the Empress Theresa, does there appear to
have been any plan laid down for the gaining over these poor ignorant people to virtue, and
to the state.  Historians represent that the wise dispositions she enjoined respecting the
Gypsies in Hungary, were intrusted to people inadequate to the task.

What was done, in her time, for the improvement of their condition, may be seen by the following
article extracted from the Anzeigen aus den Kayserl, Königl Erbländern, or Intelligence from
the Hereditary Imperial Royal Dominions.

“Since the year 1768, several decrees regarding these people have been published in the country,
Hungary, and the strictest orders despatched to the several districts, in consequence.  It
was intended to extirpate the very name and language of these folks out of the country.  They
were no longer to be called Gypsies, but New Boors, Uj Magyar; not to converse any longer with
each other in their own language, but in that of any of the countries in which they had chosen
to reside.

“Some months were to be allowed, after which they were to quit their Gypsey manner of life,
and settle like the other inhabitants, in cities and villages; to build decent houses and follow
some reputable business. They were to procure Boors’ clothing; to commit themselves to the
protection of some territorial superior, and live regularly.”

Nevertheless, though these regulations were calculated for the good of these people, and the
state, the greater part were not in the smallest degree benefited by them.  In the year 1773,
these orders were not only repeated, but made more rigid; and as even this measure would not
answer the end, it was then thought necessary to proceed to extremity with them.

Wherefore it was ordered, that no Gypsey should have permission to marry, who could not prove
himself in condition to support a wife and children; that from such Gypsies who had families,
the children should be taken away by force; removed from their parents, relations, and intercourse
with the Gypsey race.  A beginning was made in some places; and where they would not comply
voluntarily, they were compelled to submit to the decree.  Those Boors who were willing to
receive and bring up these children, were paid eighteen guilders yearly from Government.

On the 24th of April, 1774, between five and six o’clock in the morning, the children of the
Gypsies which had been growing up from December of the foregoing year, were again removed from
Fahlendorf, in Schütt, and Hideghid, for the purpose of being put under the same course of
discipline as the others.  Among the children taken away on this occasion, was a girl fourteen
years old, who was forced to be carried off in her bridal state.  She tore her hair for grief
and rage, and was quite beside herself with agitation: but she recovered a composed state of
mind; and, in 1776, in Fasching, obtained permission to accomplish her marriage.

So far our intelligence is quoted from the Gazettes, by which we may see how prudently every
thing was concerted.

But it must be observed, although the publisher of this information endeavours to conceal it,
how little these salutary regulations were put in force; there were scarcely two places in
the kingdom where even an endeavour was made to give them proper effect.  This supineness must
have been unknown to the Emperor Joseph, or he would certainly again have enforced these regulations,
to all chiefs and governors, at the same time that he gave orders for their being observed
in Transylvania.

The tenor of the decree just mentioned, which was published in the year 1782, was consonant
with the intention of Theresa, with regard to the Hungarian Gypsies; namely, that those also
in Transylvania should become better men, and more useful inhabitants.  For the accomplishment
of this end, it prohibits their wandering about, and living under tents; requires that they
become settled, and put themselves under some territorial chief.  In order to strike immediately
at the root of the evil, necessary and minute directions are given for the improvement of their
religious ideas and opinions; and, by correcting their vicious habits, for rendering them good
citizens.

First, with respect to religion, they must

1.  Not only be taught the principles of religion themselves, but early send their children
to school.

2.  Prevent as much as possible, their children running about naked in the roads and streets,
thereby giving offence and disgust to other people.

3.  In their dwellings, not permit their children to sleep promiscuously by each other, without
distinction of sex.

4.  Diligently attend at church, particularly on Sundays and holidays, to give proof of their
Christian disposition.

5.  Put themselves under the guidance of spiritual teachers, and conduct themselves conformably
to the rules laid down by them.

Secondly, with regard to their temporal conduct, and better mode of living, they are bound

1.  To conform to the custom of the country, in diet, dress, and language: consequently to
abstain from feeding on cattle which have died of distempers; not to go about in such unseemly
dresses; and to discontinue the use of their own particular language.

2.  Not to appear any more in large cloaks; which are chiefly useful to hide things that have
been stolen.

3.  No Gypsey, except he be a gold-washer, shall keep a horse.

4.  Also the gold-washers must refrain from all kinds of bartering at the annual fairs.

5.  The magistrates of every place must be very attentive that no Gypsey waste his time in
idleness; but at those seasons, when they have no employment, either for themselves or any
landholder, to recommend them to some other person, with whom they shall be compelled to work
for hire.

6.  They are to be kept particularly to agriculture; therefore

7.  It is to be observed, where possible, that every territorial Lord, who takes any Gypsies
under his jurisdiction, do allot them a certain piece of ground to cultivate.

8.  Whoever is remiss in his husbandry, shall be liable to corporal punishment.

9.  They shall be permitted to amuse themselves with music, or other things, only when there
is no field work for them to do.

Such were the regulations adopted by the Emperor Joseph II. for the purpose of civilizing,
and rendering good and profitable subjects, upwards of eighty thousand of miserable wretches,
ignorant of God and of virtue.

                                                              Grellmann.

SECTION V.

The Gypsies in Great Britain.

                                * * * * *

The traits of character and the habits of the Gypsies on the Continent of Europe, exhibited
in this work, are sufficient for an examination, in what degree these people correspond with
those under the same denomination in England.

The earliest account which the writer of this section has been able to collect from British
History, was printed in the year 1612; when a quarto work, by S. R. was published, to detect
and expose the art of juggling and legerdemain; in which is the following description of the
Gypsies.  The character they assumed, was the best adapted to establish their reputation, for
the arts and deception they intended to practise in England.  The fame of Egypt in astrology,
magic, and soothsaying, was universal; and they could not have devised a more artful expedient,
than the profession of this knowledge, to procure for them a welcome reception by the great
mass of the people.

From the abstract of the Act of 27th, Henry VIII, we may infer, that the Gypsies were so much
in request, as to induce some of our countrymen to import them from the Continent, or at least
to encourage their migration to this Island.  The importation of these people must have been
prevalent from some cause, to require parliamentary interference, and even a fine to prevent
it, of such an amount as £40; which according to the relative value of money, would, at the
present time, be equal to a large sum.

During the same reign, we find that a number of Gypsies were reshipped at the public expense,
and sent to France.

In the Book of Receipts and Payments, of the 35th of Henry VIII. are the following entries.
5s. The severe statute of 5th Eliz. c. 20 is repealed by 23d Geo. III. c. 51—and Gypsies are
now only punishable under the Vagrant Act, which declares, “that all persons pretending to
be Gypsies, or wandering in the habit, and form of Egyptians, shall be deemed rogues, and vagabonds.”—17th
Geo. II. c. 5.

In Scotland, these people seemed for a time to enjoy some share of indulgence; for a writ in
favour of John Faw, Lord and Earl of Upper Egypt, was issued by Mary, Queen of Scots, 1553;
and in 1554, he obtained a pardon for the murder of Numan Small.

In 1579, however all the legislative provisions respecting vagrants, beggars, &c. in Scotland,
were reduced into one law, by the following very comprehensive statute: “Forameikle as there
is sindrie loyabil Acts of Parliament, maid be our soveraine Lord’s maist nobil progenitours,
for the stanching of maisterful and idle beggars, away putting of Sornares, and provision for
the pure: bearing that nane sall be thoiled to beg, nouther to burgh, nor to land, betwixt
14 and 70 zeires.

James’ subjects are commanded to aid in apprehending them, and in assisting Faw and his adherents
to return home.

From all these circumstances, it appears that this John Faw, or two persons of the same name
and distinction, succeeding each other, staid a long time in Scotland; and from him this kind
of strolling people might receive the name of Faw Gang, which they still retain, as appears
by Burn’s Justice.

But the Scottish laws, after this time, were not less severe than those of Queen Elizabeth.

SECTION VI.

The present State of the Gypsies in Scotland.

                                * * * * *

The energy and perseverance by which North Britons are distinguished, will be evinced throughout
the pages of this section.  A friend of the author, having been requested to make application
at the Advocates’ and the University Libraries, in the city of Edinburgh, for extracts from
some foreign publications, was also desired to transmit with them what information could be
obtained respecting the Gypsies in Scotland.

With a promptitude and zeal which characterises genuine philanthropy, a circular, containing
four queries, was dispatched to the Sheriff of every county in that nation; soliciting through
the medium of an official organ, all the intelligence which could be obtained on the subject.
In consequence, returns have been made from nearly the whole of the shires, either by the Sheriff,
or his substitute; generally addressed to George Miller, jun. Edinburgh; who has been a most
effective coadjutor on this occasion.

From thirteen counties, the reports are, “No Gypsies resident in them;” some others give account
of their only passing through at times.

William Frazer Tytler, Sheriff of Invernessshire, writes as follows: “The undertaking in which
you are engaged, for the civilization of so lost a portion of mankind, merits every support.
Its effects may be more generally and extensively useful in England, where those unfortunate
people are extremely numerous.  In Scotland, their number is comparatively small, and particularly
in the county of Inverness.”

Alexander Moor, Sheriff Depute, of Aberdeenshire, states: “There are not any Gypsies who have
a permanent residence in that Sheriffalty.  Some of them are supposed to be connected with
Gypsies in the southern part of the island.”

John Blair, Sheriff Substitute for the County of Bute, writes: “I have to inform that the people
generally known by the description of Gypsies, are not in use to come hither, unless abject,
itinerant tinkers and braziers, generally from Ireland, may be accounted such.  A few of them
often visit us, and take up their abode for a time in different parts of the country, where
people can be prevailed upon to give them the accommodation of an out-house or hut.”

They are understood to be illiterate, neither they, nor their children, who are often numerous,
being able to read.  They also sell crockery, deal in old rags, in eggs, in salt, in tobacco
and such trifles; and manufacture horn into spoons, I believe most of those who come through
Selkirkshire, reside, during winter, in the villages of Sterncliff and Spittal, in Northumberland,
and in that of Kirk Yetholm, Roxburghshire.

“Mr. Smith, the respectable Baillie {94} of Kelso, can give the most complete information concerning
those who reside at Kirk Yetholm. Formerly, I believe, they were much more desperate in their
conduct than at present.  But some of the most atrocious families have been extirpated, I allude
particularly to the Winters, a Northumberland clan, who I fancy are all buried by this time.

“Mr. Reddell, Justice of Peace for Roxburghshire, with my assistance and concurrence, cleared
this country of the last of them, about eight or nine years ago.  They were thorough desperadoes,
of the worst class of vagabonds.  Those who now travel through this country, give offence chiefly
by poaching, and small thefts.  They are divided into clans, the principal names being Faa,
Baillie, Young, Ruthven, and Gordon.

“All of them are perfectly ignorant of religion, nor do their children receive any education.
They marry and cohabit amongst each other, and are held in a sort of horror by the common people.

“I do not conceive them to be the proper Oriental Egyptian race, at least they are much intermingled
with our own national out-laws and vagabonds. They are said to keep up a communication with
each other through Scotland, and to have some internal government and regulation as to the
districts which each family travels.

“I cannot help again referring to Mr. Smith of Kelso, a gentleman who can give the most accurate
information respecting the habits of those itinerants, as their winter-quarters of Yetholm,
are upon an estate of which he has long had the management.”

It is very satisfactory to have received from an authority so respectably as that of William
Smith, the Baillie of Kelso, above referred to, answers to the four queries of the circular;
accompanied by his own interesting and appropriate illustrations, from which extracts are made
as follow, dated November, 1815.

“A considerable time having elapsed, since I had an opportunity, or occasion to attend to the
situation of the colony of Gypsies in our neighbourhood, I was obliged to delay my answer to
your inquiries, until I could obtain more information respecting their present numbers.

“The great bar to the benevolent intentions of improving their situation will be, the impossibility
to convince them that there either is, or can be, a mode of life preferable, or even equal
to their own.

“A strong spirit of independence, or what they would distinguish by the name of liberty, runs
through the whole tribe.  It is no doubt a very licentious liberty, but entirely to their taste.

“When avowedly trusted, even in money transactions, they never deceived me, nor forfeited their
promise.  I am sorry to say, however, that when checked in their licentious appropriations,
&c. they are very much addicted both to threaten and to execute revenge.

“Having so far premised with respect to their general conduct and character, I shall proceed
to answer, as far as I am able, the four queries subjoined to the circular which you sent me,
and then subjoin, in notes, some instances of their conduct in particular cases, which may
perhaps elucidate their general disposition and character.”

“Query 1st.  What number of Gypsies in the County?

“A.  I know of none except the colony of Yetholm, and one family who lately removed from that
place to Kelso.  Yetholm consists of two towns, or large villages, called Town Yetholm, and
Kirk Yetholm.  The first is in the estate of Mr. Wauchope, of Niddry; the latter in that of
the Marquis of Tweedale.  The number of the Gypsey colony at present in Kirk Yetholm, amounts
to at least 109 men, women, and children; and perhaps two or three may have escaped notice.
They marry early in life, in general have many children, and their number seems to be increasing.

“Query 2d.  In what do the men and women mostly employ themselves?

“B.  I have know the colony between forty and fifty years.  At my first remembrance of them,
they were called the Tinklers, (Tinkers) of Yetholm, from the males being chiefly then employed
in mending pots, and other culinary utensils, especially in their peregrinations through the
hilly and less populous parts of the country.

“Sometimes they were called Horners, from their occupation in making and selling horn spoons,
called Cutties.  Now their common appellation is that of Muggers, or, what pleases them better,
Potters.  They purchase, at a cheap rate, the cast or faulty articles, at the different manufactories
of earthenware, which they carry for sale all over the country; consisting of groups of six,
ten, and sometimes twelve or fourteen persons, male and female, young and old, provided with
a horse and cart to transport the pottery; besides shelties and asses to carry the youngest
of the children, and such baggage as they find necessary.

“In the country, they sleep in barns, and byres, or other out-houses: and when they cannot
find that accommodation, they take the canvas covering from the pottery cart, and squat below
it like a covey of partridges in the snow.

“A few of the colony also employ themselves occasionally in making beesoms, foot-bosses, &c.
from heath, broom, and bent, and sell them at Kelso, and the neighbouring towns.  After all,
their employment can be considered little better than an apology for idleness and vagrancy.

“They are in general great adepts in hunting, shooting, and fishing; in which last they use
the net and spear, as well as the rod; and often supply themselves with a hearty meal by their
dexterity.  They have no notion of being limited in their field sports, either to time, place,
or mode of destruction.

“I do not see that the women are any otherwise employed, than attending the young children;
and assisting to sell the pottery when carried through the country.”

“Query 3rd.  Have they any settled abode in winter, and where?

“C.  Their residence, with the exception of a single family, who some years ago came to Kelso,
is at Kirk Yetholm, and chiefly confined to one row of houses, or street of that town, which
goes by the name of Tinkler Row.  Most of them have leases of their possessions, granted for
a term of nineteen times nineteen years, for payment of a small sum yearly; something of the
nature of a quit rent.  There is no tradition in the neighbourhood concerning the time when
the Gypsies first took up their residence at that place, nor whence they came.

“Most of their leases, I believe were granted by the family of the Bennets of Grubet; the last
of whom was Sir David Bennet, who died about sixty years ago.  The late Mr. Nesbit of Dirleton,
then succeeded to the estate, comprehending the Baronies of Kirk Yetholm, and Grubet.  He died
about the year 1783, and not long after, the property was acquired by the late Lord Tweedale’s
trustees.

“During the latter part of the life of the late Mr. Nesbit, he was less frequently at his estate
in Roxburghshire than formerly.  He was a great favourite of the Gypsies, and was in use to
call them his body guards, and often gave them money, &c.

“On the other hand, both the late and present Mr. Wauchope were of opinion, that the example
of these people had a bad effect upon the morals and industry of the neighbourhood; and seeing
no prospect of their removal, and as little of their reformation, considered it as a duty to
the public, to prevent the evil increasing; and never would consent to any of the colony taking
up their residence in Town Yetholm.

“They mostly remain at home during winter, but as soon as the weather becomes tolerably mild
in spring, most of them, men, women, and children, set out on their peregrination over the
country, and live in a state of vagrancy, until again driven into their habitations by the
approach of winter.

“Seeming to pride themselves as a separate tribe, they very seldom intermarry out of the colony;
and in rare instances where that happens, the Gypsey, whether male or female, by influence
and example, always induces the stranger husband or wife to adopt the manners of the colony,
so that no improvement is ever obtained in that way.  The progeny of such alliances have almost
universally the tawny complexion, and fine black eyes of the Gypsey parent, whether father
or mother.

“So strongly remarkable is the Gypsey cast of countenance, that even a description of them
to a stranger, who has had no opportunity of formerly seeing them, will enable him to know
them wherever he meets with them. Some individuals, but very rarely, separate from the colony
altogether; and when they do so early in life, and go to a distance such as London, or even
Edinburgh, their acquaintances in the country get favourable accounts of them.  A few betake
themselves to regular and constant employments at home, but soon tire, and return to their
old way of life.

“When any of them, especially a leader, or man of influence dies, they have full meetings,
not only of the colony, but of the Gypsies from a distance, and those meetings, or Late Wakes,
are by no means conducted with sobriety or decency.”

“Query 4th.  Are any of their children taught to read, and what proportion of them?  With any
anecdotes respecting their customs and conduct.

“D.  Education being obtained at a cheaper rate, the Gypsies in general, give their male children
as good a one, as is bestowed on those of the labouring people and farm servants in the neighbourhood;
such as reading, writing, and the first principles of arithmetic.  They all apply to the clergyman
of the parish for baptism to their children, and a strong superstitious notion universally
prevails with them, that it is unlucky to have an unchristened child long in the house.  Only
a very few ever attend divine service, and those as seldom as they can, just to prevent being
refused as sponsors at their children’s baptism.

“They are in general, active and lively, particularly when engaged in field sports; or in such
temporary pursuits as are agreeable to their habits and dispositions; but are destitute of
the perseverance necessary for a settled occupation, or even for finishing what a moderate
degree of continued labour, would enable them to accomplish in a few weeks.”

NOTES

By WM. SMITH, intended to elucidate his answers to the Queries A and B, on their licentious
liberty.

“I remember that about 45 years ago, being then apprentice to a writer, who was in use to receive
the rents as well as the small duties of Kirk Yetholm, he sent me there with a list of names,
and a statement of what was due; recommending me to apply to the landlord of the public-house,
in the village, for any information or assistance which I might need.

 “After waiting a long time, and receiving payment from most of the
feuers, or rentallers, I observed to him that none of the persons of the
names of Faa, Young, Blythe, Fleckie, &c. who, stood at the bottom of the
list for small sums, had come to meet me, according to the notice given
by the Baron Officer; and proposed sending to inform them that they were
detaining me, and to request their immediate attendance.

“The landlord, with a grave face, inquired whether my master had desired me to ask money from
those men.  I said, not particularly; but they stood on the list.  “So, I see,” said the landlord,
“but had your master been here himself, he did not dare to ask money from them, either as rent,
or feu duty.—He knows that it is as good as if it were in his pocket. They will pay when their
own time comes, but do not like to pay at a set time with the rest of the Barony; and still
less to be craved.”

“I accordingly returned without their money, and reported progress.  I found that the landlord
was right; my master said with a smile, that it was unnecessary to send to them, after the
previous notice from the Baron Officer; it was enough if I had received the money, if offered.—Their
rent and feu duty was brought to the office in a few weeks.  I need scarcely add, those persons
all belonged to the tribe.

“Another instance of their licentious, independent spirit, occurs to me. The family of Niddry
always gave a decent, annual remuneration to a Baron Baillie, for the purpose of keeping good
order within their Barony of Town Yetholm.  The person whom I remember first in possession
of that office, was an old man called Doctor Walker, from his being also the village surgeon;
and from him I had the following anecdote:—

“Between Yetholm and the border farms in Northumberland, there were formerly, as in most border
situations, some uncultivated lands called the Plea lands, or Debateable lands, the pasturage
of which was generally eaten up by the Sorners and vagabonds on both sides of the marches.

“Many years ago, Lord Tankerville and some other of the English borderers, made their request
to Sir David Bennet, and the late Mr. Wauchope of Niddry, that they would accompany them at
a riding of the Plea lands, who readily complied with their request.  They were induced to
this, as they understood that the Gypsies had taken offence, on the supposition that they might
be circumscribed in the pasture for their shelties and asses, which they had held a long time,
partly by stealth, and partly by violence.

“Both threats and entreaties were employed to keep them away; and, at last, Sir David obtained
a promise from some of the heads of the gang, that none of them should show their faces on
the occasion.

“They, however, got upon the hills at a little distance, whence they could see every thing
that passed.  At first they were very quiet.  But when they saw the English Court Book Spread
out on a cushion before the clerk, and apparently taken in a line of direction, interfering
with what they considered to be their privileged ground, it was with great difficulty that
the most moderate of them, could restrain the rest from running down, and taking vengeance,
even in sight of their own Lord of the Manor.

“They only abstained for a short time, and no sooner had Sir David, and the other gentleman
taken leave of each other in the most polite and friendly manner, as border chiefs are wont
to do, since border feuds ceased, and had departed to a sufficient distance, than the clan,
armed with bludgeons, pitch-forks, and such other hostile weapons as they could find, rushed
down in a body; and before the chiefs on either side had reached their home, there was neither
English tenant, horse, cow, nor sheep left upon the premises.

“Notes on Answers C and D.

“Peculiar cast of GYPSEY FEATURES, every where distinguishable, &c.

“When first I knew any thing about the colony, old Will Faa was king, or leader, and had held
the sovereignty for many years.

“Meeting at Kelso with Mr. Walter Scott, whose discriminating habits and just observations
I had occasion to know from his youth, and at the same time seeing one of my Yetholm friends
in the horse market, I merely said to Mr. Scott, “Try to get before that man with the long
drab coat, look at him on your return, and tell me whether you ever saw him, and what you think
of him.”  He was so good as to indulge me; and rejoining me said without hesitation, “I never
saw the man that I know of; but he is one of the Gypsies of Yetholm, that you told me of several
years ago.”  I need scarcely say that he was perfectly correct.

“The descendants of Faa, now take the name of Fall, from the Messrs. Falls, of Dunbar, who,
they pride themselves in saying, are of the same stock and lineage.  When old Will Faa was
upwards of eighty years of age, he called on me at Kelso, in his way to Edinburgh, telling
that he was going to see the Laird, the late Mr. Nesbit, of Dirleton, as he understood that
he was very unwell, and himself being now old, and not so stout as he had been, he wished to
see him once more before he died.

“The old man set out by the nearest road, which was by no means his common practice.  Next
market-day, same of the farmers informed me, that they had been in Edinburgh, and seen Will
Faa upon the bridge; (the south bridge was not then built;) that he was tossing about his old
brown hat, and huzzaing with great vociferation, that he had seen the Laird before he died.
Indeed Will himself had no time to lose, for having set his face homewards by the way of the
sea coast, to vary his route, as is the general custom of the gang, he only got the length
of Coldingham, when he was taken ill, and died.

“His death being notified to his friends at Yetholm, they and their acquaintance at Berwick,
Spittal, Horncliff, &c. met to pay the last honours to their old leader.  His obsequies were
continued three successive days and nights, and afterwards repeated at Yetholm, whither he
was brought for interment.  I cannot say that the funeral rites were celebrated with decency
and sobriety, for that was by no means the case. This happened in the year 1783, or 1784, and
the late Mr. Nesbit did not long survive.”

William Dymock, W. S. Edinburgh, distinguished in the profession of the law, by his sound judgment
and strict integrity, having had the perusal of the preceding report from William Smith, gives
the following testimony concerning that account: “Baillie Smith’s report is quite graphical,
correct truth, and correctly expressed.—It is useful as showing, that the parties of Tinklers
are great detachments from one colony.”

With this, accords Sir John Sinclair’s observation in his Statistical Account of Scotland,
Vol. II. p. 124, when describing the village of Eaglesham, he remarks: “There is no magistrate
nearer than four miles, and the place is oppressed with gangs of Gypsies, commonly called Tinklers,
or sturdy beggars.”

Before receiving the very interesting report from William Smith, the author of this Survey
was entirely at a loss to determine what was become of the descendants of John Faw, who styled
himself Lord and Earl of Little Egypt; and with a numerous retinue entered Scotland in the
reign of Queen Mary, as stated in Section the 5th.—His complaint of his men refusing to return
home with him, might be only a feint, invented to cover his design of continuing in the country;
for there does not appear to be any traces in history of the banishment of Faw-gang, or of
their quitting Scotland.—But in the above cited report, we find at the head of the Tinklers
a Will Faa, in whose name there is only a variation of one letter from that of his distinguished
predecessor; and that in reference to this origin, he asserts the Falls of Dunbar to be of
the same stock and lineage.

SECTION VII.

On the origin of the Gypsies

                                * * * * *

Various are the conjectures which have been indulged, and the coincidences which have been
sought for, in order to obtain a solution of the query, What race of people are the Gypsies?

Whoever is disposed to refer to Continental writers, may see more than thirty different opinions
started on this subject, founded on no better authority than some similarity of appellation,
garb, complexion, or unsettled way of life.

They were sometimes Torlaques, Kalendars, or Faquirs.  The Torlaques are Mahometan Monks, who
under the pretence of holiness, are guilty of the most flagrant excesses.  Bajazet the 2d,
banished them from the Turkish empire in 1494.  The Kalendars wander about in heathen countries,
as the Gypsies do among Christians.  The Faquirs are religious fanatics; and rove about in
heathen and mahometan countries, like the most atrocious robbers.  Anquetil says, the Faquirs
in India go a pilgrimage to Jagrenat; they plunder such villages and cities as lie in their
way; they form considerable bodies about a mile from Jagrenat, where they choose themselves
a leader, to whom they pay all the attention due to a general.

With regard to strolling and thieving, the Faquirs and Gypsies agree exactly.  Thomasius, Griselini,
and the English geographer Salmon, imagined that when Sultan Selim conquered Egypt in 1517,
several of the natives refusing to submit to the Turkish yoke, revolted under one Zinganeus.

But we have already adverted to authentic documents for the proof, that they were in Germany,
Italy, and France, near a century before the conquest of Egypt by Selim.

Yet the belief that Gypsies were of Egyptian origin is parallel with their existence in Europe.
It arose from the report circulated by the first of them, that they were pilgrims from Egypt;
and this statement was not only adopted by the common people, but here, and there, obtained
credit among men of learning.  Grellmann observes, that had this opinion not been received
at a time when almost every thing was taken upon trust, with little examination; had it not
been propagated by the first Gypsies, and then obtained a sanction, it would have been impossible
for it to have gained such general acceptation, or to have maintained itself to the present
times.  Till the 17th century, the Egyptian descent of the Gypsies rested entirely on tradition.
Afterwards, Aventin, Krantz, and Miinster openly contradict it.

Aventin relates that they wished it to be thought they came from that country, but that, in
his time, nothing was known concerning them, but what came from their own mouths; those who
accounted them Egyptians, rested their belief entirely on the veracity of their informants.

This is collected with greater certainty from Krantz and Miinster, for they declare expressly,
that every thing which could be discovered by any other means than their own assertions, contradicted,
rather than confirmed their Egyptian descent.  But it is not merely that their Egyptian descent
is entirely destitute of proof, the most circumstantial evidence can be adduced against it.

Their language differs entirely from the Coptic, and their customs, as Ahasuerus Fritsch has
remarked, are diametrically opposite to the Egyptian; but what is, if possible, of greater
weight, they wander about in Egypt, like strangers, and there, as in other countries, form
a distinct people.

The testimony of Bellonius is full and decisive on the point.  He states; “No part of the world,
I believe, is free from those banditti, wandering about in troops; whom we, by mistake, call
Gypsies, and Bohemians.  When we were at Cairo, and the villages bordering on the Nile, we
found troops of these strolling thieves sitting under palm-trees; and they are esteemed foreigners
in Egypt.”

Aventin expressly makes Turkey their original place of rendezvous; and this furnishes a reason
for the south east parts of Europe being the most crowded with them.  If all that came to Europe
passed by this route, it accounts for a greater number remaining in those countries, than in
others to which they would have a much longer travel; and before their arrival at which, their
hordes might be much divided.

It is a just assertion, that one of the most infallible methods of determining the origin of
a people, would be the discovery of a country in which their language is that of the natives.
It is a fact incontrovertibly established, that besides the Gypsies speaking the language of
the country in which they live, they have a general one of their own, in which they converse
with each other.

Not knowing any speech correspondent with the Gypsies, some have been ready to pronounce it
a mere jargon; not considering how extravagant a surmise it would be, that a people rude, uncivilized,
and separated hundreds of miles from each other, have invented a language.  Others who are
better informed on the subject, allow that the language brought into Europe with the Gypsies,
was really vernacular, of some country; but suppose it is so disguised and corrupted, partly
by design, and partly by adventitious events, through length of time, and the continued wandering
of these people, that it must be considered a new language, and now used by the Gypsies only.

That it is the dialect of some particular part of the globe, though no longer pure, as in the
country whence it originated, is an opinion which has obtained the greatest concurrence among
the learned.  Grellmann says, had a German listened a whole day to a Gypsey conversation, he
would not have comprehended a single expression.  It must doubtless appear extraordinary, that
the language of a people who had lived for centuries in Europe, should have remained so much
a secret: but it was not easy to gain information from the Gypsies concerning it.  Acquainted,
by tradition, with the deception their predecessors practised on coming into Europe, they are
suspicious; and fearing an explanation might be dangerous to themselves, they are not disposed
to be communicative.—But how was it possible for the learned of former centuries, to be competent
to the investigation, who had not the aids which now so copiously occur to the historical etymologist?

Many dialects have been discovered, and our knowledge of others greatly increased, within the
last fifty or sixty years.  During that time, not only the literary treasures of the furthest
north have been opened to us, but we have become acquainted with many of the oriental languages;
and even eastern idioms are becoming familiar to us.  We need not therefore be surprised, that
before this period, the most learned were unable to point out the country in which the Gypsey
language was spoken.  The Gypsies have no writing peculiar to themselves, in which to give
a specimen of the construction of their dialect.

Writing and reading are attainments not to be expected from nomadic tribes.  Sciences, and
the refined arts, are never to be looked for among a people whose manner of living, and education,
are so irregular.

The first were appointed by Brama to seek after knowledge, to give instructions, and to take
care of religion.

Of this very caste it will appear, by the following comparison, our Gypsies are composed. 
We have seen that the Gypsies are in the highest degree filthy and disgusting; and with regard
to character, depraved and fraudulent to excess, and these are the qualities of the Suders.

All this is precisely the case with the Pariars.  Such is likewise a constant custom with the
Pariars in India.

That the Gypsies, and natives of Hindostan, resemble each other in complexion, and shape is
undeniable.  How exactly does this accord with the description of the Gypsey smith!

We have seen that Gypsies always choose their place of residence near some village, or city,
very seldom within them; even though there may not be any order to prevent it, as is the case
in Moldavia, Wallachia, and all parts of Turkey.  Even the more improved Gypsies in Transylvania,
who have long since discontinued the wandering mode of life, and might, with permission from
government, reside within the cities, rather choose to build their huts in some bye place,
without their limits.  This custom appears to be derived from their original Suder education;
it being usual all over India, for the Sunders to have their huts without the villages of the
other castes, and in retired places near their cities.

With respect to religion, it has appeared that the greater part of the Gypsies live without
any profession of it; Tollius says, worse than heathens.  The more wonderful it is, that a
whole people should be so indifferent and void of religion, the more weight it carries with
it, to confirm their Indian origin, when all this is found to be literally true of the Suders.

In relation to the emigration of the Gypsies, no cause can be assigned for their leaving their
native country, so probable, as the war of Timur Beg, in India.  The date of their arrival
marks it very plainly.  It was in the years 1408, and 1409, that this Conqueror ravaged India
for the purpose of disseminating the Mahometan religion.  Not only every one who made any resistance
was destroyed, and such as fell into the enemies’ hands, though quite defenceless, were made
slaves; but in a short time those very slaves, to the number of one hundred thousand, were
put to death.  In consequence of the universal panic which took place, those, who could quit
the country, might well be supposed to consult their safety by flight.

If any of the higher castes did withdraw themselves on account of the troubles it is probable,
they retired southward to people of their own sort, the Mahrattas.  To mix at all with the
Suders, would have been degrading their high characters, which they consider worse than death;
it was therefore morally impossible for them to have united with the Suders in a retreat. 
Moreover, by putting themselves into the power of the Suders, with whom they live in a state
of discord and inveteracy, they might have incurred as much danger as from the common enemy.

Before presenting a vocabulary of Gypsey words, it may be observed, that though the Hindostanie
language is fundamentally the same, all over Hindostan; yet, like other languages, it has different
dialects in the various provinces.  The eastern dialect, spokes about the Ganges, has different
names for some things; and inflections of some words different to the western ones spoken about
the Indus: There is, besides, a third, varying from both these, viz: the Surat dialect, which
has a number of Malabar, and other words mixed with it.  To this must be added, that in the
Hindostan, as well as in every other language, there are often several names for the same thing.

The particular dialect bearing the closest affinity to the Gypsey language, as will appear
hereafter, is the western; and perhaps more especially that of Surat.  With respect to the
construction and inflections of the two languages, they are evidently the same.  In that of
Hindostan, every word ending in j is feminine, all the rest masculine; the Gypsey is the same.
That makes the inflections entirely by the article, adding it at the end of the word.  The
Gypsey language proceeds exactly in the same manner

                                                              Grellmann.

SECTION VIII.

Comparative view of the Gypsey, Hindostanie, and Turkish languages.

                                * * * * *

The following collection is extracted from Grellmann’s Vocabulary.

     Gypsey.         Hindostanie.

Grellmann has given examples of the declension of nouns, pronouns, and adjectives, as well
as the conjugation of verbs in both languages; but the grammatical arrangement of them does
not come within the design of this work.  The foregoing list of words is a selection of those
that are most similar: but in Grellmann’s extensive vocabulary, he says, it will appear on
the average, that every third Gypsey word, is likewise Hindostanie.

It must be observed, that the words above recited, have been learned from the Gypsies within
a few years, consequently at a time when they had been nearly four complete centuries away
from Hindostan, their native country; and among people who spoke languages totally different;
in which also the Gypsies conversed.

Under the constant and so long continued influx of these languages, their own must necessarily
have suffered some alteration; more especially as they are a people entirely ignorant, either
of writing or literature.

It does not appear that there is so much Persian in the Gypsey language, as has been generally
imagined; and even what there is of it, they may have brought with them from their native country,
as many Persian words are current in Hindostan.  We ought rather to wonder the number of Hindostanie
words in the Gypsey language, is so considerable, than to require it should be greater, to
furnish sufficient proof of the Hindostanie language being the Gypsies’ mother tongue.

Since the laborious researches of Grellmann, extended intercourse with India, has furnished
unquestionable evidence in support of his deductions.

“It has long been surmised, that the vagrant tribes of people called in this country Gypsies,
and on parts of the Continent of Europe, Cingari, Zingari, and Chingali, were of eastern origin.
The former name has been supposed a corruption of Egyptian, and some learned men have judged
it not improbable that their language might be traced to the Coptic.

“In the course of researches which I have had occasion to pursue on the subject of language,
I have observed that Ludolfus, in his history of Ethiopia, makes mention incidentally of the
Cingari, vel Errones Nubiani, and gives a specimen of words which he had collected from these
people on his travels, with a view of determining their origin.  He discusses the opinions
of various writers concerning them; but forms no precise sentiment of his own, concluding his
observations with these words: “Eadem vocabula, cum maximam partem reperiam apud Vulcanium
à centum fere annis traditam, non fictitia existimo, ut Megiferus putat nec corrupta ex aliis
linguis, neque Egyptiaca, sive Coptica.”—In English, thus: “Since I find according to Vulcanius,
that most of these words have been continued traditionally for a period of nearly 100 years,
I do not consider them fictitious, as Megiferus supposes, nor corrupted from other languages,
either the Egyptian or Coptic.”

“I was surprised to find many of the words familiar to my eye; and I pointed out to Sir Joseph
Banks, in the latter end of the year 1783, their evident correspondence with terms in the Hindostanie,
or as it is vulgarly termed in India, the Moors’ language.

“This similitude appeared to me so extraordinary, that I was inclined to suspect an error in
the publication, which might have arisen from a confusion of obscure vocabularies in the author’s
possession.  The circumstance, however, determined me to pay farther attention to the subject,
and to examine, in the first place, whether the language spoken by the Gypsey tribes in England,
and by those in the remoter parts of the continent of Europe was one, and the same; and then
to ascertain, whether this actually bore the affinity which so forcibly struck me in Ludolfus,
to any of the languages on the Continent of India.

“Through the obliging assistance of Sir Joseph Banks, who has spared no pains to promote this
investigation, I procured an opportunity of obtaining a list of words from our Gypsies, which
I can depend upon as genuine, and tolerably accurate in respect to the pronunciation, from
their being corroborated also by words taken down, separately, by Sir Joseph, and by Dr. Blagden.

“Mr. Matra did me the favour to transmit for me, a list of words to Turkey; and from his ingenious
friend B. Pisani, I received a complete and satisfactory translation of them, together with
some information, respecting the manners of the Chingiares, in the Turkish dominions, which,
however, does not come within the design of this paper, as I mean to confine myself in the
present communication, simply to the question of similarity of language; which, if established,
I should esteem a matter of no little curiosity; presuming it to be perfectly new to the world.

“Of this similarity, the learned members of the Society will be enabled to form their judgment
from the annexed paper, exhibiting a comparison of a few of the words procured from the different
quarters before mentioned, with the Hindostanie terms, from the best published, and parole
authorities.  It may not be unworthy of remark, that the general appellation of these people
in the eastern part of Europe, is very nearly connected with that of the inhabitants of Ceylon,
in the East-Indies, who are equally termed.  Lingalese and Chingalese; though at the same time
it must be acknowledged, that the language of this Island has much less correspondence with
that of the Gypsies, than many others of the Indian dialects.

“His Grace, the Archbishop of York, with his usual discernment, suggested to me, the probability
that the Zingara here spoken of, may have derived their name, and perhaps their origin from
the people called Langari, or Langarians, who are found in the north-west parts of the Peninsula
of Hindostan, and infest the coasts of Guzerat and Sindy with their piratical depredations.

“The maritime turn of this numerous race of people, with their roving and enterprising disposition,
may warrant the idea of occasional emigration in their boats, by the coarse of the Red Sea.

“Notwithstanding the resemblance to the Hindostanie, is the predominant feature in the Gypsey
dialect, yet there are words interspersed, which evidently coincide with other languages. 
Besides the Mahratta, and Bengalese, which I have marked in the comparative specimen, it is
not a little singular that the terms for the numerals seven, eight, and nine, are purely Greek:
although the first five, and that for ten, are indisputably Indian.  It is also a curious observation,
that although the Indian term for seven is saath, yet that for a week, or seven days; is the
Eftan of the latter.

“One word only among those I have examined, bears a resemblance to the Coptic, which is rom,
the same with romi, a man.

“In comparisons of this nature, a due allowance must be made, not only for the various modes
of spelling adopted by different persons, and different nations, but also for the dissimilar
manner in which the same individual sound, strikes the organs of the hearers; of which some
pointed instances may be given.

In the 386th page of the 7th Vol. of Archæologia, is the comparative view of the English Gypsey,
Turkish Gypsey, and Hindostanie dialects; a specimen of which will be presented in this section.

In page 387 of the same volume, are collections on the Zingara, or Gypsey language, by Jacob
Bryant, Esq. transmitted to G. Salusbury Brereton, Esq. in a letter from Doctor Douglas, read
1785: This learned traveller, when in Hungary, had taken from the mouths of Gypsies, specimens
of their language, which occupy seven pages.  It is remarkable, that of seventeen words obtained
and enumerated in the letters of Coxe, the learned traveller, fourteen appear to resemble most
exactly those of the same signification, collected by Jacob Bryant

                                                           John Douglas.

COMPARISON OF THE GYPSEY, TURKISH, AND HINDOSTANIE LANGUAGES.

English.     English           Turkish         Cingari vel     Hindostanie.
               Gypsey.           Gypsey.         Errones
                                                   Nubiani.

One            Aick               Yeck                              Aick, ek, Yek

Two            Dooce              Duy                               Du, Dow

Three          Trin               Trin                              Trin

Four           Staur, Shtar       Shtiar                            Chaur

Five           Panji              Panch                             Paunch

Six            Shove              Shove                             Chaye

Seven          Heftan             Efta                              Saath

Eight                             Okto                              Aoth Aut

Nine           Henya              Enia                              Noh Nu

Ten            Desh               Desh                              Dus, Doshe
                                                                    (Bengalese)

Man            Raye, gazo         Ram Manush       Manusch          Manoosha,
                                                                    (Bengalese)

Woman          Raunee gougee      Romee                             Rendee, Raunee

Head           Bold-uroo shero    Shero            Schiero          Seer, Sirr

Eyes           Yackau, yock       Yack             Jaka             Okhyo
                                                                    (Bengalese)

Nose           Bol-nak            Nack             Nak              Nauck

Hair           Ballau, bolow      Bal              Bal              Baul, Bal

Teeth          Danau              Dan                               Daunt, Dant
                                                                    (Bengalese)

Ear            Kanaue                              Can              Kaun

Day            Dewas, Devas       Deeves                            Deendeewas
                                                                    (Mahratta)

Night          Rautee             Rateee                            Raut, roat

White          Pauno              Parnee                            Paandra
                                                                    (Mahratta)

Sheep          Baukro                              Bakro            Bhare

Hog            Baulo              Balo             Palo

Fish           Matcho             Muteho                            Matchee,
                                                                    Mutchee

Bind           Cheriko            Chiriiklo                         Chereah

House          Kair                                Ker              Ghurr

Gold           Soona-kai                                            Sonna

Silver         Roop                                                 Roopau

Brand, in his observations on Popular Antiquities, Vol. II. page 432, observes: “The Gypsies,
as it should seem from some striking proofs derived from their language, were originally from
Hindostan, where they are supposed to have been of the lowest class of Indians, named Pariars,
or as they are called in Hindostan, Suders.  They are thought to have emigrated about A.D.
1408, or 1409, when Timur Beg ravaged India for the purpose of spreading the Mahometan religion.
On this occasion so many were made slaves, and put to death, that a universal panic took place,
and a very great number of terrified inhabitants endeavoured to save themselves by flight.

“As every part to the north and east was beset by the enemy, it is most probable that the country
below Multan, to the mouth of the Indus, was the first asylum and rendezvous of the fugitive
Suders.  This is called the country of Zinganen.  Here they were safe, and remained so till
Timur’s return from the victory of the Ganges.  Then it was that they entirely quitted the
country, and probably with them a considerable number of the natives, which will explain the
meaning of their original name.”

In the seventh Vol. of the Asiatic Researches, page 470, Captain David Richardson says of the
Panchperee, or Budee’a Nuts: “’Tis probable there will be found in their manners, a stronger
similitude to the Gypsies of Europe, than in those of any other which may come under review.
They have no particular system of religion, adopting with indifference that of the village
near to which they happen to be encamped.  In the upper provinces of Hindostan, the little
encampments of these people are frequently very regular and neat, being there formed of the
Sirkee entirely.  Each apartment, though not much larger than a mastiff’s kennel, has its own
particular enclosure, or court-yard; generally erected in such a manner, as to become a species
of circumvallation to the whole portable hamlet.

“One cannot help wondering where so many men, women, and children, and other domestic animals
manage to sleep; or shelter themselves from the storms which sometimes assail these itinerant
people.  The men are remarkably athletic and active, and also nimble and adroit, in every kind
of slight of hand.  Many of the subdivisions of this class of men, pay little, or no attention
to cleanliness, or any restrictions in diet; eating dead jackalls, bullocks, horses, or any
kind of food procurable.

“The women do not attend the men during their juggling exploits, but have a peculiar department
allotted to themselves; which consists of the practice of physic, cupping, palmistry, curing
disorders of the teeth, and marking the skin of the Hindoo women, an operation termed Godna.
They have two languages peculiar to themselves; one intended for the use only of the craftsman,
the other general among men, women, and children.

“The Hindostanie is the basis of both; the first is general, being a mere transposition or
change of syllables; and the second apparently, a systematic conversion of a few letters; but
which will be best elucidated by the following specimen, which contains twenty-two words.”

After which, he says: “I find these people in Colebrook’s arrangement of the Hindoo Classes,
mentioned in the sixth class, under the head of Nata, Bazeegurs; and in Sir William Jones’s
translation of the Ordinances of Menu, Munoo, Chapter 10.

“I shall now subjoin a short parallel between the Gypsies of Europe, and the people I have
described.  Both the Gypsies and the Nuts are generally a wandering race of beings, seldom
having a fixed habitation. They have each a language peculiar to themselves.  That of the Gypsies
is undoubtedly a species of Hindostanie; as well as that of the Nuts.  In Europe, it answers
all the purposes of concealment.

“The Gypsies have their King, the Nuts their Nardar Boutoh; they are equally formed into companies,
and their peculiar employments are exactly similar; dancing, singing, music, palmistry, &c.
They are both considered as thieves; at least that division of the Nuts, whose manners come
nearest the Gypsies.—In matters of religion they appear equally indifferent, and as to food,
we have seen that neither the Gypsies nor the Budee’a Nuts are very choice.

“Though, in the Encyclopædia Britannica, Grellmann’s Theory is thought slightly of, the similarity
of language being deemed but inconclusive evidence; yet in this instance, and even in opposition
to such authority, I will venture to consider it, as forming a basis of the most substantial
kind.  It is not the accidental coincidence of a few words, but the whole vocabulary he produces,
differs not so much from the common Hindostanie, as provincial dialects of the same country
do from each other.

“Grellmann, from a want of knowledge in the Hindostanie; as to its provincial dialects, lost
many opportunities of producing the proper word in comparison with the Gypsey one.

“The following list of words was taken from the Annual Register of 1784, or 1785, with a few
I have now subjoined from Grellmann.—In some of the instances where he has failed of producing
the corresponding Hindostanie word, the supply of them will, I hope, prove the language of
the Gypsies, and that of Hindostan to be the same, or very intimately connected with each other.

    Gypsey.        Hindostanie.              English.

Bebee               Beebe              Aunt, a respectful feminine
                                       termination from baba,
                                       Father.

Pawnee              Paniee             Brook, Drink, Water

Cauliban            Kalaburn           Black

Davies, Devus       Dewus              Day

Rattie              Rat                Dark night

Can                 Kan                The Ear

Dad                 Dada               Father

Mutchee             Muchee             Fish

Bootsee             Buholsee           Great

Gur                 Ghur               House

Shing               Seen               Horn

Tuttoo              Tutta              Heat

Riah                Raye               Lord

Rriena              Ra, enee           Lady

Dai                 Da’ee              Mother

Mass                Mas                Meat or food

Nack                Nak                Nose

Bouropanee          Bura-panee         Ocean, wave

Loon                Loon               Salt

Rook                Rook, h            A Tree

Tschar              Char               A Thief

Mul                 Mool               Wine

Captain Richardson continues the list through four pages.

SECTION IX.

Present state the Gypsies in England.

                                * * * * *

It has been already stated, in the Introduction to this work, that the author visited an encampment
of Gypsies.  It consisted of five tents, situated near Rushden, within two miles of the pleasant
town of Higham Ferrers.  He did not reconnoitre the camp till about mid-day, having been informed
that by this time, it was probable, the able-bodied persons of both sexes would be drawn off
to a feast and a fair, in different situations, not very distant.  It proved so; there were
only two women, three children, and an infant remaining in the tents; which were the residence
of several branches of the numerous families of Smith, and Loversedge, names well known in
the county of Northampton.

The head of the former, has been many years a dealer in asses, or donkies; and is reputed to
be possessed of some property.  His wife, more than eighty years of age, was seated at the
entrance of one of the tents, weaving a cabbage net.  The other woman, who was middle aged,
was nursing an infant; and the eldest of the children, about twelve years of age, was making
preparation for washing; a pan was suspended from three poles, under which she had kindled
a fire, to boil water.  The very tattered and squalid appearance of this poor girl was truly
affecting.

On conversing with the old woman, she said she had forty grand-children; some gone to the feast,
others to the fair; and she signified, that both men and women were musical performers.

On being asked whether any of them had learned to read, she shook her head, and, with apparent
regret, acknowledged they had not.  This indication of concern excited an idea, that some impression
had been made on the minds even of Gypsies, of the disadvantages their children were under.

Considering how generally education had been extended, to the lowest description of every other
class of British subjects; how many schools had been opened in villages, as well as in the
different towns of the kingdom, it was not improbable, that information of movements so extraordinary,
might have reached the ears, if not impressed the minds of these neglected fellow-creatures.
The activity which had been subsequently displayed in the distribution of the Scriptures, and
the zeal excited among the most ignorant to receive them, might also come to their knowledge.

Resuming conversation with the female head of the Smith family, she said they endured great
hardships in winter, having no shelter but their tents, in the worst of weather.

She was then asked, if they did not experience great difficulty in obtaining the means of subsistence,
during the inclement seasons; and whether they were not, at times, reduced to the necessity
of taking up with any kind of sustenance, even if it consisted of animals they might find dead
upon the road.

To this she immediately replied: “Those that have died by the hand of God, are better than
those that have died by the hand of man.”

This reply, corresponding so exactly with that of the Continental Gypsies, presents a remarkable
trait of their mutual descent from the Suder caste.  He now thinks it probable, that others,
who were unacquainted with this singular idea of the Gypsies, respecting animal food, may have
imagined they were guilty of many more thefts for subsistence, than is really the case.

In the further progress of his inquiries, the writer has met with various instances in which
confidence reposed in Gypsies, has not been disappointed.—He will mention a remarkable one
at Feringbury, near Coggeshall, in Essex, on a farm which had been occupied by three generations
of the family of Corders; during which time, not the least loss had been sustained, by accommodating
Gypsies with lodgings in their barns and out-houses during inclement weather; but, on the contrary,
the family have considered them a protection to their property.

After the success of an experiment like the above, it would be superfluous to ask, if it is
not sounder policy to excite the good, than the bad dispositions of human nature.

Must not the torrent of invective and abuse, almost universally poured upon this people, tend
to disaffect and indispose them to civil association!  Despised and ill-treated as they often
are, have they not reason to imagine the hand of every man to be against them?  Who then can
wonder at their eluding, as much as possible, the inquiries of strangers!

Looking at their condition among the various inhabitants of Europe, dignified with the Christian
name, the writer has often been reminded of the universality of the Gospel call, as illustrated
in the parable of the great supper.  After the invitation had been given throughout the streets
and lanes of the cities, the command to the servants was: “Go out into the highways and hedges,
and compel them to come in.”  Here is a description that may have been intended specially to
apply to this people, so exactly and even literally adapted to their condition, in all countries,
is the language: “Go ye into the highways and hedges.”  And the distinction in their case is
rendered still more remarkable by the very pressing injunction, “Compel them to come in.”

Does it not admit of the inference, that as outcasts of society, being under greater disadvantages
than the other incited classes, their situation requited a more powerful stimulus to be applied?

The account of the sufferings of Gypsies in winter, having been confirmed by many concurring
testimonies, from the inhabitants of Northamptonshire, the following Circular was sent into
most of the Counties of England, with a view to ascertain their state in other parts of the nation.

CIRCULAR.

When it is considered how much the exertions of the wise, the philanthropic, and the good,
in all parts of the nation, have been directed to advancing the morals and religious instruction
of the lower orders of the community, it appears almost incredible that one description of
British subjects, and of all others the most abject and depraved, should have been either entirely
overlooked or neglected.  The Gypsies, to whom this applies, are a people which, more than
any other, it might have been considered the interest of society to reclaim, because of the
depredations they commit upon it.

The efforts of the good, and of the great, have not been confined to meliorating the condition
of the inhabitants of this country only, they have been directed to the alleviation of human
misery in various other nations, and even to the augmentation of funds for civilizing the natives
of distant regions of the globe.  Can we manifest our solicitude for the improvement of our
fellow-creatures separated from us thousands of miles, whose faces we never saw, and conclude
that numbers of persons in our own country, whose situation is more desperate, have not a peculiar
claim on our consideration?

To reclaim the Indians of North America from their wild and roving course of life, associations
have been formed to give them instructions in agriculture, and to supply them with implements
of husbandry; plans of education adapted to their untutored state have been arranged, and persons
qualified to carry them into effect, in the establishment of schools, have gone to their assistance.

Do the numerous Gypsey tribes of England possess any of these advantages?

In the summer of 1814, when the writer of this circular, visited a number of Gypsey tents in
Northamptonshire, as already stated, a woman about 80 years of age, who had forty grand-children,
acknowledged, that not one of them had been taught to read.  In this land of Christian benevolence,
can we pronounce a certain proportion of its inhabitants to be wretchedly depraved, and even
a wicked set of people; advertise them as rogues and vagabonds, and offer a reward for their
apprehension, without devising any means of remedying the defects of their habits, or holding
out encouragement to reformation, in any of them who are disposed to relinquish their vicious
courses?

The associations formed and forming in different parts of the nation for the prosecution of
felons, render the condition of Gypsies every day more and more deplorable, by their being
hunted like beasts of prey from township to township.

The last winter but one, a company of these houseless wanderers were dug out of the snow in
Ditchford Lane, near Irchester, Northamptonshire, when it appeared one woman had been lying
in, and that an old man was dying.

If those who have been zealous in driving them from their accustomed haunts, were to place
themselves, if but ideally in their situation, can we believe, that instead of augmenting their
sufferings, they would not be disposed to commiserate their case, and even attend to the precept
of the Christian Legislator: “Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so
to them?”  It is worse than useless and unavailing to harrass them from place to place, when
no retreat or shelter is provided for their refuge.

With a view to ascertain more fully the extent in which this may be necessary, the friends
of humanity, to whom this Circular may be addressed, are requested to co-operate with others
of their friends in different parts of each county, for procuring answers from the best informed
of the Gypsies, and others, to the subsequent questions.  And should there be any person in
their neighbourhood, who after being brought up among the Gypsies, hath quitted them for a
more settled course of life, information from such is particularly desirable.  Answers are
requested in the course of the summer: to be sent to John Hoyland, Springfield, Sheffield.

                                * * * * *

QUESTIONS.

1.  From whence is it said the Gypsies first came?

2.  How many is it supposed there are in England?

3.  What is your circuit in summer?

4.  How many Gypsey families are supposed to be in it?

5.  What are the names of them?

6.  Have they any meetings with those of other circuits?

7.  And for what purpose?

8.  What number of Gypsies are there computed to be in the county?

9.  What proportion of their number follow business, and what kind?

10.  What do they bring their children up to?

11.  What do the women employ themselves in?

12.  From how many generations can they trace their descent?

13.  Have they kept to one part of the country, or removed to distant parts?

14.  How long have they lived in this part?

15.  Have they any speech of their own, different to that used by other people?

16.  What do they call it?  Can any one write it?

17.  Is there any writing of it to be seen any where?

18.  Have they any rules of conduct which are general to their community?

19.  What religion do they mostly profess?

20.  Do they marry, and in what manner?

21.  How do they teach their children religion?

22.  Do any of them learn to read?

23.  Who teaches them?

24.  Have they any houses to go to in winter?

25.  What proportion of them, is it supposed, live out of doors in winter, as in summer?

5th Month, 16th, 1815.

THE REPORTS

Received from the Counties of England, are comprised in the following general Answers to the
Queries of the Circular.

1.  All Gypsies suppose the first of them came from Egypt.

2.  They cannot form any idea of the number in England.

3.  The Gypsies of Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire, parts of Buckinghamshire, Cambridge, and Huntingdonshire,
are continually making revolutions within the range of those counties.

4.  They are either ignorant of the number of Gypsies in the counties through which they travel,
or unwilling to disclose their knowledge.

5.  In various counties, the attention has not been competent to procuring data for any estimate
of families, or individuals.

9.  More than half their number follow no business; others are dealers in horses and asses;
farriers, smiths, tinkers, braziers, grinders of cutlery, basket-makers, chair-bottomers, and
musicians.

12.  Too indolent to have acquired accounts of genealogy, and perhaps indisposed to it by the
irregularity of their habits.

13.  In most counties there are particular situations to which they are partial.  In Berkshire
is a marsh, near Newbury, much frequented by them; and Dr. Clarke states, that in Cambridgeshire,
their principal rendezvous is near the western villages.

14.  It cannot be ascertained, whether from their first coming into the nation, attachment
to particular places has prevailed.

15, 16, & 17.  When among strangers, they elude inquiries respecting their peculiar language,
calling it gibberish.  Don’t know of any person that can write it, or of any written specimen
of it.

18.  Their habits and customs in all places are peculiar.  Instances of their attending any
place for warship are very rare.

20.  They marry for the most part by pledging to each other, without any ceremony.  A few exceptions
have occurred when money was plentiful.

24 & 25.  Some go into lodgings in London, Cambridge, &c. during winter; but it is calculated
three-fourths of them live out of doors in winter, as in summer.

Most of the answers are confirmed by Riley Smith, who, during many years, was accounted the
chief of the Gypsies in Northamptonshire.  He being much in request by some of the principal
inhabitants of that county, as a musician, had the address to marry the cook out of one of
their families, and afterward obtained a farm near Bedford; but being unsuccessful in agriculture,
he returned to his former occupation.  John Forster and William Carrington, respectable merchants
of Biggleswade, and neighbours to Riley Smith, procured answers from him to all the queries
in the Circular; but they cannot be made the basis of any calculation of the number of Gypsies
in the nation.  They take their children along with them on travel, and, like the Gypsies,
regret that they are without education.

It has already appeared in Baillie Smith’s report, that the Gypsies in Scotland, of late years,
have had recourse to a similar occupation in the sale of earthenware, which, as they mostly
attend fairs, is a mode of life remarkably adapted to their inclination.

Some pains have been taken among the potteries in Staffordshire, to procure information of
the number of families of this description, which annually apply to purchase the refuse of
their wares; but no return has been made.

The application to the Sheriffs of Scotland, procured from the counties prompt and decisive
reports; and it is not probable that any measure, short of an order to the constables of every
township, to take an account on the same day, throughout England, would be sufficient for ascertaining
Gypsey population.

For this purpose a patrole might be necessary, on one and the same day, in each township, particularly
in lanes and situations shaded in summer. If notice of the requisition were to be communicated
to constables, a few days before, with directions not to disclose the object, further than
the necessary provision for it required; it is probable, that a sufficiently correct estimate
might be formed, of the aggregate number in the nation.

Such an account might extend also to the itinerant potters, and the number of their children:
or if the potters take out a Hawker’s and Pedlar’s licence, a return of their numbers might
be obtained from the proper office.  There is reason to think that many of these dealers have
acquired property, who, nevertheless take lodgings for the winter, instead of renting houses;
whereby they, equally with Gypsies, evade all contributions to the service of the State, and
parochial assessments.

On this subject, the writer is reminded of what has often occurred to him, when inspecting
a low description of lodging-houses in the populous town of Sheffield, of which he is an inhabitant.
Finding it difficult to obtain from the keepers of such houses, sufficient information respecting
their guests; he has thought, that obliging all who lodge itinerants to take out a licence,
would, by rendering them amenable to just authority, obviate this difficulty; and put it in
the power of those respectable inhabitants, who wish the regulation of these receptacles, to
exercise just discrimination, without infringing upon the liberty of the subject. He has reason
to believe, if this were effected, it would operate as a considerable check on vagrancy, and
save much trouble to magistrates.

SECTION X.

Present state of the Gypsies in and about London.

                                * * * * *

In the autumn of 1815, the author made a journey to London, in order to obtain information
respecting the Gypsies in its vicinity.

With a view to reconnoitre an encampment of Gypsies, the author accepted a seat in the carriage
of a friend, who drove him to Hainault forest. This, according to historians, was of vast extent
in the times of the ancient Britons, reaching to the Thames; and so late as the reign of Henry
the 2d, it covered the northern vicinity of the city.

On this forest, about two miles from the village of Chigwell, Essex, and ten from London, stands
the far-famed oak, at which is held Fairlop Fair, that great annual resort of the Gypsies.

According to an account of it printed for Hogg, Paternoster-row, the trunk or main stem of
this tree has been sixty-six feet, and some of the branches twelve feet, in circumference.
The age of this prodigy of the forest cannot be ascertained with any degree of precision. 
The oak viewed by the present King, in Oxfordshire, and some years ago felled in the domains
of one of the Colleges, though only twenty-five feet in girth, is said to have been six hundred
years old.  Fairlop oak having been nearly thrice as large, is supposed to be at least twice
that age.

Phillips employed by the King, applied a patent mixture to stop the progress of its decay,
but, last autumn, when seen by the describer, its naked gigantic trunk and arms, retaining
not the least symptom of animation, presented a ghastly spectacle of the ravages of time, as
contrasted with the rich verdure of the surrounding scenery.

The circumstances which gave rise to the establishment of a fair, on this spot of ground, are
somewhat singular.

Daniel Day, an engine, pump, and block-maker, of Wapping, having a small estate in the vicinity
of this oak, was in the habit of annually resorting to it about a fortnight after midsummer,
to receive his rents, when he provided a dinner under the tree, and invited several of his
friends to it.  The novelty of the scene exciting the attention of the neighbouring inhabitants,
attendance on that occasion increased until about the year 1725, when booths being erected
round the stupendous oak, the scene assumed the appearance of a regular fair.  It has continued
to be held there, and it is said now attracts a great number of attendants.

As this fair does not appear to be a mart for horses or cattle, there is reason to fear, it
is kept up more for revelry and excess, than for any useful purpose.  The ground has been cleared
to some extent about the oak, which stands at the head of a circular lawn, surrounded by pailing,
to protect it from the ravages of the unthinking part of the multitude, who assemble there.
It is said to have been the practice of the Gypsies, to kindle fires against the trunk, by
which the bulk has been diminished, and perhaps the vegetation injured.

On the side of the forest, near to Dagenham, Essex, was the encampment of Gypsies, of which
the author’s friend was in quest.  The construction of their tents, is well known to be wooden
hoops fastened into the ground, and covered with an awning of blankets or canvas, which resembles
the tilt of a waggon; the end is closed from the wind by a curtain.  This gang was called by
the name of Corrie.  It consisted of an old man, his wife, a niece, and their son and daughter
with ten children; said to be all from Staffordshire.  The men were scissars’ grinders and tinkers.

Questions being asked them respecting their condition, a young woman made some observations
upon them to an older woman, in their own peculiar speech.  This was the first time the writer
had an opportunity of ascertaining, what the language of Gypsies in England really was.  With
the knowledge only of Grellmann’s vocabulary, he pointed out what the young woman had expressed;
upon which they immediately exclaimed, the gentleman understands what we say; and they gave
way to immoderate transports of joy, saying, they would tell him any thing he wished to know
of them.

On being asked what gold was in their language, they replied without hesitation, sonnaka, and
immediately added, silver was roop. Even if used by this people at all, the introduction of
this cant, as the genuine language of the community of Gypsies, is a gross imposition on the
public.

One of the women said, the education of their children was to be desired, but their travelling
from place to place was against it.—A young man among them said, there were a hundred of their
people in Staffordshire. This gang was intelligent as well as communicative, and gave proof
of more civility than is commonly attributed to Gypsies.

The author also visited Norwood, which was formerly a principal rendezvous of the Gypsies.
This village, near Croydon, in Surry, is situated on a fine hill, and is a wildly rural spot;
but having been considerably inclosed of late years, it is not now much frequented by the Gypsies.

John Westover, deputy of James Furnell, constable of Norwood, stated, that about two months
before, the Gypsies in that neighbourhood had been apprehended as vagrants, and sent in three
coaches to prison.  This account was confirmed by Edward Morris, the landlord at the Gypsey
house. It did not appear that these Gypsies were committed for depredations on property, but
merely on the vagrant act.

Gypsies being routed, as it is termed, in this manner, from various parts of the south, may
probably have occasioned their appearing in greater numbers in the northern parts of the nation.
The writer of this section being at Scarborough, in the bathing season of 1815, had intelligence
of there being, at the same time, an encampment of Gypsies at Boroughbridge, another at Knaresborough,
and a third at Pocklington, in the east-riding of Yorkshire.

On returning from Scarborough, he was told by an acquaintance at Tadcaster, that a gang of
about twenty Gypsies, were just gone from the neighbourhood, after telling fortunes to most
of the people in the town. The same summer, a numerous horde had been driven from the township
of Rotherham; and there had been two encampments in the neighbourhood of Sheffield.

The winter before the last, severe as it was, a gang of about fifty or sixty, lay upon Bramley
Moor, three miles from Chesterfield.  This information was received from Joseph Storrs of Chesterfield,
who has been an assiduous coadjutor.  From the same authority, the writer learns, that a number
of Gypsies usually came to Duckmanton, near Chesterfield, at the feast, who appear to be in
pretty good reputation in their transactions. Also that there is a party of Gypsies who frequent
Socombe-lane, near Shirbrook, which is two miles east of Pleasley.  They are called Bosswell’s
gang, consisting of twelve, and sometimes more, who mostly come once a year, and sometimes
continue there for most of it.  A woman among them is about 90 years old.  They support a good
character; and one of them who bought a pony, had credit for it, and paid honestly on his return.

After obtaining information at Norwood, of the winter-quarters in London, to which Gypsies
resorted; the author had an interview with branches of several families of them, collected
at the house of his friend William Corder, Grocer, in Broad-street, Giles’s.  And in justice
to them, he must observe, that however considerably the fear of apprehension as vagrants, may
dispose them, when on travel and among strangers, to elude their inquiries, no disposition
to do so, appears in the company of persons to whom they are known, and in whom they can repose
confidence.

Being accustomed to lay out their money at the shop of this grocer, he said they would be very
ready to attend upon his invitation; and accordingly, a number of them soon made their appearance.
They said there were about twenty of the name of Lovell, who lodged in Bowles’s yard, in the
neighbourhood.  These acknowledged themselves Gypsies, and many of them had the features, as
well as the complexion of Asiatics.

Their account is, that they come into lodgings at Michaelmas, and continue till April, then
they set out on travel, and go into Norfolk, &c.

That some time ago, some of them had embraced an offer to educate their children at St. Patrick’s
charity school, which had been established by the chaplain to the Portuguese ambassador; but
some dissatisfaction arising in consequence of the religion of the conductors of that Institution,
they had removed their children to the school for the Irish, taught by Partak Ivery, No. 5,
George-street.

Uriah Lovell, the head of one of the families, made a very decent appearance; three of his
children have been four winters at school, and learned to read and write; their father having
paid sixpence per week, for each of them.—Partak was sent for, and came to the house of William
Corder, where he confirmed the above account, saying there had been six Gypsey children at
his school, and that when placed among others, they were reducible to order.

These Gypsies, like those upon Hainault forest, appeared to be greatly delighted at meeting
with a person, acquainted, as they thought, with their language, and were remarkably free in
speaking it.

James Corder, son of William Corder, obtained the following account of some of the lodgers
in Westminster, and in the Borough, &c.

      Names.                Family.            Occupation and
                                                     Residence.

John Lovell,           wife and 6 children,     Chair-bottomer,
                                                Tunbridge-street.

James Lovell,          do. 6 do.                Tinker, Church-lane.

Joseph Lovell,         do. 3 do.                Chair-bottomer,
                                                New-street.

Thomas Lovell,         do. 2 do.                Chair bottomer,
                                                Banbridge-street.

William Lovell,        do. 1 do.                Knife-grinder,
                                                Church-street.

Lussha Cooper,         wife and 10 children,    Rat-catcher,
                                                Tottenham-court-road.

Corrie Lovell,         do. 5 do.                Knife-grinder,
                                                Bolton-street.

Uriah Lovell,          do. 6 do.                Chair-bottomer,
                                                Bolton-street.

Thomas Lovell,         do. 7 do.                Knife-grinder,
                                                Paddington.

Solomon Lovell,        do. 4 do.                Chair-bottomer,
                                                New-street.

Solomon Jones,         do. 2 do.                Basket-maker and
                                                Wire-worker,
                                                Battle-bridge.

Men and Women,         22—52 Children.

John Lee,              wife and 9 children,     Chair-bottomer,
                                                Tothil-fields.

Richard Taylor,        do. 3 do.                Wire-worker,
                                                New-street.

Betsey Lovell,         widow,                   Supported by her son
                                                Joseph Lovell.

Joseph Lovell,         wife 1 do.               Bellows-mender,
                                                Shore-ditch.

Diana Lee,             widow 1 do.              Sells Earthenware,
                                                Shore-ditch.

Mansfield Lee,         wife 0 do.               Tinker and Grinder,
                                                Shore-ditch.

Zachariah Lee,         do. 0 do.                Fiddler—Travels the
                                                Country.

Thomas Smith,          do. 5 do.                Chair-bottomer,
                                                Lisson-green,
                                                Paddington.

Thomas Porter,         do. 3 do.                Works at the Canal,
                                                Paddington.

Charlotte Allen,       widow 7 do.              Sells Earthenware,
                                                Kent-street, Borough.

James Cole,            wife 4 do.               Lamplighter and
                                                Grinder, Kent-street,
                                                Borough.

Edward Martin,         do. 2 do.                Sells Fruit in the
                                                Street, Kent-street,
                                                Borough.

Samuel Martin,         do. 6 do.                Journeyman Saddler,
                                                White-street.

John Sinfield,         do. 0 do.                Sells Fish in the
                                                Streets,
                                                White-street.

John Taylor,           do. 3 do.                Ditto.  Ditto.

Men and Women,         25—44 Children.

There has not been any information obtained concerning who winter in Bull’s Court, Kingsland
Road, or in Cooper’s Gardens.

The older Gypsey children assist their parents in their trades; a few of the younger go to
school during winter.  Most of those who have children, are desirous of their receiving an
education; though but few have the means of procuring it.

They complain of the scarcity of work; and in some instances appear to be distressed for want
of it; the more so, as their ideas of independence prevent their applying to parishes for assistance.—It
is much to their credit, that so few instances occur of their begging in London.  In the minutes
of evidence before the Committee of the House of Commons, on mendicity, there is only one example
of a Gypsey girl begging in the streets.

Some of the women go in a morning to principal houses in the squares, before the heads of the
families have risen, and tell fortunes to the servants, from whom they obtain sixpence or a
shilling each.

A few of the Gypsies continue all the year in London, excepting their attendance of fairs in
the vicinity.  Others, when work is scarce, go out twenty or thirty miles round the metropolis,
carrying their implements with them on asses; and support themselves by the employment they
obtain in the towns and villages through which they pass; and assist sometimes in hay-making,
and plucking hops, in the counties of Kent, Surry, and Sussex.

Among those who have winter-quarters in London, there are a few that take circuits of great
extent.  Some of them mentioned going through Herts into Suffolk, then crossing Bedfordshire
and Buckinghamshire to Herefordshire, Monmouthshire, Bristol, &c.  Others spoke of being at
Yarmouth, Portsmouth, South Wales, Wiltshire, &c.

There is reason to think, the greatest part of the Island is traversed in different directions,
by hordes of Gypsies.

For the purpose of comparing the language of English Gypsies with that of the Continental,
exhibited in Section VIII, the following list of words was sent to James Corder, Broadstreet,
Bloomsbury.  He obtained from the Gypsies in his neighbourhood, the translation affixed to them.

    English.          Gypsey.

One                  Yake

Two                  Duèe

Three                Trin

Four                 Stor

Five                 Pan

Ten                  Dyche

Head                 Charro

Eyes                 Yock

Nose                 Nack

Bread                Mor

Bread & butter       Kil-môr

Beer                 Limbar

Hair                 Bâlo.

Cold day             Shil-dewes

Hot day              Tal-dewes

Ear                  Kau

Day                  Dewes

Night                Raut

White                Parnau

Sheep                Bolko

Hog                  Borlo

Fish                 Marcho

House                Kare

Gold                 Sonnekar

Silver               Rupe

Dog                  Jukou

Horse                Grarre

When it is known that Gypsies are unacquainted with letters, and that James Corder, who took
from the mouths of those in the parish called St. Giles, the preceding Gypsey words, did not
know of Grellmann’s vocabulary, the coincidence appears very remarkable; but it is still more
so with the Turkish Gypsey specimen by Jacob Bryant, exhibited also in the 8th Section.  Robert
Forster of Tottenham, who has been a coadjutor in this work, transmitted the following collection
of words obtained from Gypsies in his neighbourhood.

   Gypsey.          English.

Parnee            Water

Jewcal            Dog

Maurau            Bread

Kil-maurau        Bread & butter

Lavenar           Beer

Shill-deues       Cold day

Taldu             Hot day

Moila             Ass

Gur               Horse

In the conversation a clergyman had with the Bosswell gang, as published in the Christian Guardian
for 1812 and 1813, they told him Chum, was the sun; Chuu, the moon; Kalmàro, bread and butter;
and Livina, drink.  The first two of those words almost exactly accord with Grellmann’s vocabulary,
and the latter as nearly with Robert Forster’s and James Corder’s collection from Gypsies in
and about London.

From the comparative views which have been taken of Gypsey expressions in various countries,
there is reason to conclude that wherever they have been scattered on the face of the earth,
they have spoken and transmitted the same language to their descendants.  That it should have
been preserved by them, when among people of other tongues, throughout centuries, for no purpose
that we are acquainted with, but that of concealment, is indeed astonishing.

SECTION XI.

Sentiments of various persons on the moral condition of the Gypsies

                                * * * * *

After the extensive survey which has now been taken of the customs and habits of this people,
in the various countries they inhabit, the reader will be prepared for the conclusions of Grellmann,
that Gypsies are indeed a singular phenomenon in Europe.  And remarkable it is, that the combined
influence of time, climate, and example, have not effected any material alteration in their
state.  For the space of three or four hundred years, they have gone wandering about as pilgrims
and strangers; they are found in eastern, as well as in western countries; as well among the
rude, as the civilized; among indolent and active people; yet they remain in all places, as
to customs and habits, what their fathers were.

It is asserted, there are two causes to which this coincidence is to be attributed; one is
the country where they originate, with their consequent train of thinking; the other arises
out of the circumstances which have hitherto attended their situation.  Their peculiar notions
and customs, leave no doubt of their being of eastern origin.  In oriental countries, attachment
to habit is so strong, that what has been once current among them, be it ever so pernicious
or ridiculous, is persevered in; any affection which has once predominated, retains its dominion
for ages.

Mahomet knowing that the weak side of the Arabians was their veneration for every thing handed
down from their forefathers, gave his new profession the colouring of antiquity, and affirmed
it to be the religion of Abraham.  The Jesuits in China, availed themselves of similar means,
by referring to Confucius, in aid of their doctrines, and thus they obtained admission for
their religion among the Chinese.  In the eastern nations, no change is adopted merely because
it is an improvement.  The Chinese are acquainted with the use of glass, yet their mirrors
are always made of metal; and their windows of shells.—Mechanical watches have been for ages
used in the court of Pekin, but the bulk of the nation depend upon the action of fire and water;
the former, by the gradual burning of a match composed of sweet smelling powder, the latter
by water, somewhat resembling our large hour-glasses.

If we consider the circumstances under which the Gypsies have existed, we shall want nothing
more to make us comprehend, why they have remained to the present time, what they were at their
first arrival in Europe. Separating themselves as much as possible from all association, but
with those of their own tribe, they avoid every means which might give a new turn to their
ideas, or in the least degree contribute to eradicate deep-rooted prejudice.—Unused to reflect,
and fettered by habit, they arrived in our quarter of the globe; and it does not appear that
any measures have been enjoined for instructing or reforming them, except those of the Empress
Theresa, which were never put in execution.

The most extreme punishments failing to effect a change in the habits of Gypsies, they were
subjected in almost all countries to banishment.  They had been accustomed in their own country,
to live remote from cities and towns; now they became more invariably inhabitants of forests,
and penetrated deeper into deserts; as, in consequence of the search which was made after them,
or, at least, threatened to be made, they judged themselves more secure in seclusion and concealment,
than they would have been, in frequenting places of established abode, and having free intercourse
with the neighbouring, inhabitants.  Thus they became, in a greater degree, outcasts from civilized
society; and divested of the most, and perhaps the only, probable means, of inducing a change
in their manner.

Being always either persecuted, or left to themselves, no other could be expected, than that
they must ever remain in all places the same.  The character of people being formed by the
instruction they receive in their early years, can it be thought surprising, that Gypsies who
are idlers, should be also abandoned and thievish?  Is it to be expected that men should become
diligent, who have been educated in laziness?  Who can have a general idea of fair dealing,
that has never been taught the distinction between good and evil, virtue and vice?  Perhaps
it is reserved for our age, in which so much has been attempted for the benefit of mankind,
to humanize a people, who, for centuries, have wandered in error and neglect; and it may be
hoped, that while we are endeavouring to ameliorate the condition of our African brethren,
the civilization of Gypsies, who form so large a portion of humanity, will not be overlooked.

It cannot be denied, that considering the multitude of them, their reform must be a subject
of very serious consideration to many states.  The period in which banishments were generally
pronounced on this people, were too unphilosophical for any preferable mode of punishment to
be suggested; but it may be expected from a better informed age, that better maxims will be
adopted.  We send apostles to the east and west, to the most distant parts of the whole earth;
and even into the very country whence the Gypsies emigrated, to instruct the people who know
not God. Is it not inconsistent for men to be solicitous for the welfare of their fellow-creatures
in distant regions, and to throw off, and leave to chance, those who, equally wretched, have
brought their errors home to us?  If it be a good work to teach religion and virtue to such
as are ignorant of their Creator, why not begin with those nearest to us?—Especially as neglect
in this particular, is attended with detriment to the society of which we are members.

The Gypsies have been long enough among civilized people to prove, that they will not be allured
by the mere example of others, to free themselves from the fetters of old customs and vices.
To accomplish that end, more effectual means are requisite.

It would be vain to hope for any considerable progress in the improvement of those who are
grown up.  Their reformation would be a difficult task, as the attempts made by the Empress
Theresa evinced:—you must begin with children, and not meddle with the old stock, on whom no
efforts will have effect.

Expelling the Gypsies entirely, was not merely a premature step, it was a wasteful one.  This
is indisputable, so long as the state maxim holds good, that a numerous population is advantageous.

Care being taken to enlighten their understandings, and amend their hearts, they might become
useful citizens; for observe them at whatever employment you may, there always appear sparks
of genius.  It is well known, and no writer omits to remark, what artful devices they have
recourse to, in perpetrating any cheat or robbery: but this is not the only particular in which
they show capacity.  The following extract is from a Hungarian author, who was an attentive
observer of these people.

    “The Gypsies have a fertile imagination in their way, and are quick
    and ready at expedients; so that in many serious, doubtful cases,
    they soon recollect how to act, in order to extricate themselves.  We
    cannot indeed help wondering, when we attend to, and consider the
    skill they display in preparing and bringing their works to
    perfection; which is the more necessary from the scarcity of proper
    tools and apparatus.  They are very acute and cunning in cheating, or
    thieving; and when called to account for any fraud or robbery,
    fruitful in invention, and persuasive in their arguments to defend
    themselves.”

                                                              Grellmann.

                                * * * * *

The recommendation of Grellmann, p. 197, to begin the work of reform with children, appears
judicious; but the events of the present day justify the expectation, that benevolent exertions
would not prove fruitless, should they afterwards be extended even to the “old stock.”

Before the Circular introduced is the 10th Section was distributed, the author did not know
of the correspondence on the subject of Gypsies, which had appeared in the interesting pages
of the Christian Observer. But he should now consider it an injustice to those benevolent individuals,
who had taken the lead in this work of Christian charity, not to give full consideration to
the ideas they have suggested.

In Vol. VII. p. 91 of that periodical publication, is the following letter.

                  To the Editor of the Christian Observer.  The great Shepherd of Israel despises not
    these unhappy wanderers from his fold; and I am persuaded, that
    neither you, nor those who read and prize your work, will be
    insensible to the force of His benign example.

    May the Divine Spirit suggest means, by which this wretched race may
    be reclaimed from their vagrancy, and be made acquainted with that
    Saviour, whom to know is life eternal!

                                                          Yours, &c.  NIL.

                                * * * * *

               To the Editor of the Christian Observer. {201}

    It gave me pleasure to observe in one of the numbers of your
    miscellany, a letter on a subject that has frequently engaged my
    serious attention: I mean the state of the Gypsies.  Surely, Sir, there is an awful responsibility
    attached to this neglect!  If we look back into the history of the
    Christian church, from the earliest ages, we shall find that the
    introduction of the gospel amongst any people, has generally been
    effected by means of Missionaries; and so numerous are the Gypsies,
    and so desultory in their habits of life, that it might well occupy
    the time of more than one zealous individual, to go amongst them, and
    by plain, simple, affectionate conversation and exhortation, when
    practicable, instruct them in the knowledge of their Redeemer.

    Nor in this favoured land, where there are so many who zealously
    embrace the doctrines of Christianity, would there, I trust, be
    wanting both one, or more persons, who would devote themselves to
    this truly apostolic work; and benevolent individuals who would open
    their hearts and their purses, for the support and encouragement of
    such an undertaking.  This labour of love would doubtless prove less
    arduous, than the attempts which have been made to establish missions
    among the American Indians; the natives of the South-Seas; or the
    inhabitants of Southern Africa.

    The dread of the magistracy in this country, would prove a protection
    from personal injury, while the painful relinquishment of friends and
    country would not be required.  I will also beg leave to mention
    another suggestion: I have understood that, in different parts of the
    kingdom, the neighbouring clergy meet at stated times, for the
    purpose of conversing on the important duties of their pastoral
    office.  At such times, would it not be well to take into
    consideration, the perishing condition of so large a part of the
    community, as that, which forms the subject of this letter?  Some
    plan might probably be thus devised, which, through the blessing of
    the Lord, would prove effectual for the salvation of this out-cast,
    and hitherto neglected people.

    I would also take the liberty of recommending the cause of these
    unhappy partners of our kind, to the humanity of our dissenting
    brethren; and most earnestly solicit Christians of all denominations,
    to unite in prayer to the God of all grace, that he would prosper
    every attempt which may be made, to communicate to them the knowledge
    of His will.

                                                   I am, &c.  FRATERNICUS.

                                * * * * *

               To the Editor of the Christian Observer. {205}

    The insertion of the letter of “Fraternicus,” on the moral and
    religious state of the Gypsies, in a late number of your work,
    (August, p. 496) implies, I presume, an approbation of its contents.
    It is a subject that cannot fail to interest the feelings of a real
    Christian.

    The writer of this, has it in his power to contribute some pecuniary
    aid towards such a truly Christian undertaking, and would most gladly
    afford it.  If any way can be devised
    through the medium of your work, to set about this labour of love,
    twenty pounds per annum shall be regularly contributed by the writer
    of this; and you are at liberty to make whatever use you can of this
    offer.  If any good, which I pray God it may, should arise from the
    present communication, the name of the writer, who is a constant
    reader of the Christian Observer, shall be made known, when thought
    necessary by the conductor.

                                                                        H.

                                * * * * *

               To the Editor of the Christian Observer. {206}

    I am much pleased with the interest which your two correspondents,
    Fraternicus, and H. appear to take, in the spiritual and eternal
    condition of that ignorant and degraded class of human beings, the
    Gypsies.

    I wish much to see appropriate and active measures adopted,
    immediately to put into execution the benevolent suggestions of your
    worthy and sensible correspondents.  I cannot do a great deal in a
    pecuniary point of view, but in counsel and influence I could do
    more.

    I feel no hesitation in inviting your correspondents to a meeting on
    the subject, with a view to the formation of some plan, and the
    consequent commencement of active exertions.  One of the first
    objects to be aimed at, is the introduction of cleanliness and
    decorum.—Another object to be attended to, is, the teaching of them,
    especially the young, to read; and then the supplying of them with
    testaments and religious tracts.

    There are many of the latter which would be both entertaining and
    useful to them; but the most direct means to do them good is, by
    frequent intercourse with them, and plain and familiar conversation,
    prudently conducted.  And if any thing be done, it must be undertaken
    in a patient and persevering spirit.  The persons to be employed in this work of faith and
    labour of love, must not only be men of prudence and discretion, but
    men of information, and possessing clear and cool heads, and warm
    hearts.

    I have no doubt, but that in these times of active benevolence and
    zeal, when a good plan is laid, and funds provided, instruments will
    be found, who with love in their hearts, will go seek those wandering
    sheep in the wilderness, for whom no man hath yet cared.

    Many good hints, Mr. Editor, are often fruitless for want of
    immediate attention; and many a good work long talked of is not only
    suspended, but never begun, for want of some one to put forth the
    hand and begin.  I for one, say to your two correspondents, “let us
    arise and build; let us begin; there is no fear of progress and
    help.”

                                                   I remain, &c.  MINIMUS.

                                * * * * *

               To the Editor of the Christian Observer. {208}

                                                          June 13, 1809.

    I was afraid the Gypsies had been quite forgotten; and therefore it
    gives me real pleasure to see, by your last number, for May 1809,
    that another correspondent has taken up their cause.  If the subject
    was once fairly before the public, I am persuaded it would interest
    the feelings of many amongst us; and should good arise from it, which
    with God’s help and blessing, could not fail to be the case, we might
    confidently look forward to a daily increasing fund for its support.  I perfectly agree with
    your correspondent, that no time should be lost in devising some
    plan, which may give consistency and effect to this work of faith,
    and labour of love.  In this short and uncertain life, no
    opportunities of usefulness should be neglected.  It is a call which
    may never again be repeated.  I am ready and desirous, to give
    Minimus the proposed meeting; and the time and place might be
    appointed through the medium of the Christian Observer.

    I must however premise, that the writer of this is a very humble
    individual in all respects, both in abilities, and in influence.  My
    habits are very retired, and at present, my time is occupied in
    attending to the ministerial duties of a populous village.  I shall
    most gladly adhere to my first proposal, and might be induced to do
    more, if need required.  Amen.

                                                                 Yours, H.

                                * * * * *

    To the Editor of the Christian Observer. {211}

    As I am not in the constant habit of seeing your publication, it is
    only lately, in meeting with your number for February last, at the
    house of a friend, that I was aware that the spiritual state of the
    Gypsies, had excited interest in the breasts of some of your readers.

    They are a race who have long excited interest in mine; so much, that
    in the year 1801, I had written a letter upon the subject to the
    society for bettering the condition, and increasing the comforts of
    the poor; but I thought on further reflection, that any attempts to
    civilize a race of beings so degraded, and held in so much contempt,
    would be considered so very visionary, that I gave up the idea and
    did not send it.  A greater lapse of time, farther observation, and
    the suggestions of your correspondents, induce me to trouble you with
    the few following remarks; recollecting that in literary attempts and
    works of beneficence, it is the same as in pecuniary subscriptions;
    that great effects are not always produced from the stores of an
    opulent individual, but from the willing contributions of the many.

    It does not appear to me, that a few, or even many Missionaries,
    according to the suggestion of Fraternicus, Vol. vii. p. 496, would
    answer the purpose of imparting religious knowledge to the Gypsies;
    since on account of their wandering mode of life, and from their not
    travelling in any numbers together, it would be difficult to form
    congregations.  What the number of Gypsies, and of those who lead
    vagrant lives, like them, may be in this kingdom, I cannot even form
    a conjecture; and Mr. Colquhoun, I think does not mention them in his
    treatise on the Police of the Metropolis.  Neither am I acquainted
    with their numbers and modes of life at Norwood, {212} which I
    understand is the chief residence of them; what I have to say,
    therefore, is only from observations made upon those who frequent
    this neighbourhood, and from others seen occasionally when I have
    been travelling.

    The suggestions of Minimus, Vol. viii. p. 286, appear to me to be the
    most practicable: and I hope that there are many Gypsies who would be
    inclined to profit by any judicious and kind exertions made on their
    behalf.  There are already several families of them within my
    knowledge, who reside in houses during the winter, and travel about
    only in the summer.  Their means of subsistence are tinkering, and
    fiddling at feasts and fairs; by which some, I believe, make a good
    deal of money, which helps them out in the winter, when there is less
    work and less dancing.

    A young man with a large family, whom I have long observed near this
    place, in my walks, about six years ago, when many inclosures took
    place in this neighbourhood, and he found it less convenient to be
    out in the fields, or rather that the farmers were less willing to
    let him encamp upon their grounds, took a small house, with a garden
    annexed to it, in the suburbs of this town, and has since lived here
    constantly in the winter, but travels in the summer.  He is now about
    38 years of age.  He married when 20, and has 8 children, all of whom
    have been baptized in the several parishes where they were born.  He
    is a very civil man, and is much respected where he is known; having
    a good character for honesty.

    He attends church constantly on a Sunday; and though he has not any
    regular notion of the peculiar doctrines of Christianity, he has some
    very good general ideas of religion and morality.  He is no swearer;
    and he would consider it wicked in his wife to attempt to tell
    fortunes.

    He is frequently employed to fiddle, at the houses of respectable
    farmers and trades-people at Christmas.  His other occupation is
    tinkering; and he is ingenious at mending fiddles, and making cases,
    &c.

    Neither he, nor his wife, can read; and none of his children have
    been hitherto sent to school.  His third boy, who is about 9 years
    old, he has, at my suggestion, promised to send to the new school
    which has been established here on Dr. Bell’s and Mr. Lancaster’s
    plan: he accepted the offer with great thankfulness.  The boy is to
    come into the school at Michaelmas, when the family return from their
    summer’s travelling.  The father would be very glad to have all his
    children brought up to any other mode of life; and even to embrace
    some other himself; but he finds a difficulty in it.

    He himself, from not having been brought up to work in husbandry,
    could not go through the labour of it; and few, if any persons, would
    be willing to employ his children, on account of the bad character
    which his race bears; and from the censure and ridicule which might
    attach to taking them, where they might be willing to do it from
    motives of benevolence.

    There is another family of Gypsies resident in this place in the
    winter, the father of which was formerly a musician in the guards.
    He has a boy now in the school.

    These circumstances lead me to think, that were encouragement given
    to them, the Gypsies would be inclined to live in towns and villages
    like other people; and would in another generation or two become
    civilized, and with the pains which are now taken to educate the
    poor, and to diffuse the Scriptures and the knowledge of Jesus
    Christ, would become a part of the regular fold: while in the mean
    time, from personal intercourse with their pastors, and from
    attending public worship, the spiritual condition of the present
    generation would be materially improved.

    All Gypsies must have some parish to which they belong; and if these
    parishes were to provide habitations for them, and to hold out
    encouragement to them to come and settle, and were to bear for the
    present with any ways which might be different from those of the
    regular inhabitants, affording them work as tinkers, &c. and
    providing education and work for their children; and for the present,
    even bearing with their travelling in the summer; this now almost
    unprofitable race of beings might be reclaimed to society.  Many of
    them are accustomed, in the seasons, to undertake hay and harvest
    work.  These, I think, with proper encouragement, might be induced to
    get their living by husbandry work throughout the year.

    Should these suggestions lead to any farther discussion upon the
    subject, or to adopting any measures to promote the desired object;
    it would give me sincere pleasure to lend my assistance, either
    pecuniary or personal.

                                                     I am, Sir, &c.  J. P.

    Cambridge, April 28, 1810.

    P.S.  I recollect having heard that the benevolent Jonas Hanway took
    a Gypsey for his servant, but I know not on what authority this was
    said.

                                * * * * *

               To the Editor of the Christian Observer. {217}

    The candid acknowledgment of your benevolent correspondent, in the
    Christian Observer for February last, that his attention had been
    first drawn to the state of the Gypsies by the letter of Fraternicus,
    was matter of unfeigned satisfaction to me; and as it is probable
    there may be no want of inclination in the Christian world, to extend
    relief effectually to them, permit me to solicit a place in your
    pages, for a thought which has occurred to me in my meditations on
    the subjects.

    It appears from a letter in your number for May, that they are not
    totally destitute of a desire for the benefit of instruction.
    Information might easily be obtained, as to what part of England they
    are to be found in the greatest numbers; and if a free school could
    be instituted, and the means of instruction provided for those of
    their children who were willing to attend, at least in the winter
    season; might it not be a means of conveying useful knowledge to
    them?

    By degrees, they might be brought to attend divine worship regularly;
    and if in the parish of a pious clergyman, he would probably embrace
    the opportunity of teaching them, more particularly, the way of
    salvation.  Much, however, might be done by a pious schoolmaster, and
    a schoolmistress, by whom the girls might be instructed in different
    kinds of work, knitting, sewing, &c.; and if any of the parents
    should evince a desire for instruction, they could be admitted at
    different hours in the day.  It would be an interesting inquiry, what
    becomes of orphans among them, and whether there is not a possibility
    of at least rescuing them from their present state of ignorance and
    misery.  That He may
    grant it, from whom every good thought proceeds, is the fervent
    prayer of

                                                              FRATERNICUS.

SECTION XII.

Review of the Subject, and Suggestions for ameliorating the condition of the Gypsies in the
British Empire.

                                * * * * *

Since the commencement of the present year, 1816, a friend {221} of the author has informed
him, that about three weeks before, he was in company with an English and a Persian gentleman,
who had lately come from Persia, through Russia; the latter well understood the languages of
both countries, and spoke them fluently.  He had travelled with the Persian Ambassador; and
said that he had met with many hordes of Gypsies in Persia; had many times conversed with them;
and was surprised to find their language was the true Hindostanie.  He did not then know of
Grellmann’s work.  He further stated, that the Gypsies in Russia were, in language and manners,
the same, and exactly corresponded with the Gypsies of this country.  Their name in Persia
signified Black Eyes.

From whatever part of the world we derive intelligence of this people, it tends to corroborate
the opinion, that they have all had one peculiar origin.  How little has it occupied the contemplation
of Britons, that there existed among them, subjects of such great curiosity as the poor and
despised Gypsies!

The statute of Henry VIII. imposing a fine of forty pounds upon the importation of a Gypsey,
induces the belief they were much in request in England at that period.  The attention which
their low performances attracted in those times, will not perhaps excite surprise, when we
see the encouragement given in our day, to their idly disposed countrymen, termed, Indian Jugglers.
It is remarkable, that the earliest account of Gypsies in Great Britain, is in a work published
to expose and detect the “Art of Juggling,” &c.

The first of this people who came into Europe, must have been persons of discernment and discrimination,
to have adapted their deceptions so exactly to the genius and habits of the different people
they visited, as to ensure success in all countries.

The stratagem to which they had recourse on entering France, evinces consummate artifice of
plan, and not a little adroitness and dexterity in the execution.  The specious appearance
of submission to papal authority, in the penance of wandering seven years without lying in
a bed, combined three distinct objects.  They could not have devised an expedient more likely
to recommend them to the favor of Ecclesiastics; or better concerted for taking advantage of
the superstitious credulity of the people, and, at the same time, for securing to themselves
the gratification of their own nomadic propensities.  So complete was the deception they practised,
that we find they wandered up and down in France, under the eye of magistracy, not for seven
only, but for more than a hundred years, without molestation.

In 1561, the edict of the States of Orleans directed their expulsion by fire and sword; yet
in 1612, they had increased to such a degree, that there was another order for their total
extermination.  Notwithstanding this severity, in 1671 they were again spread over the kingdom,
as appears in the letters of the Marchioness de Sévigné to her friends, and the Countess Grignan,
in nine volumes, translated from the last Paris edition: “Bohemians travel up and down the
Provinces of France, and get their living by dancing, showing postures, and telling fortunes;
but chiefly by pilfering, &c.”

It is remarkable, that in all countries, they professed to be Egyptians; but the representation
is not only refuted by Bellonius, but by later writers, who assert, that the “few who are to
be found in Egypt, wander about as strangers there, and form a distinct people.”

As historians admit that the greatest numbers of them are to be found in Turkey, and south
of Constantinople, there is reason to apprehend they had a passage through that country.  If
many of them did not visit Egypt previously to their arrival in Europe, they probably wished
to avail themselves of the reputation the Egyptians had acquired in occult sciences, that they
might practise with greater success, the arts to which they had been previously accustomed,
and the practice of which is common in various parts of Asia.  In other respects the habits
of Egypt were very dissimilar to theirs.

We find by the reports on the first question put by the Circular, mentioned in Section IX.
that “all Gypsies in this country suppose the first of them came from Egypt;” and this idea
is confirmed by many circumstances that have been brought into view in the course of this work.
In addition it may be observed, that before the discovery of the passage to India, by the Cape
of Good Hope, all the productions of the east, that were distributed in Europe, came to Egyptian
ports.  Hence we have many concurring testimonies, which render it highly probable, if not
evidently clear, that the first Gypsey tribes who came into England, and other parts of Europe,
migrated from hordes of that people who had previously found their way into Egypt.

The evidence appears equally strong, that they were not natives of Egypt; but as the Egyptians
were in great repute for the practice of the occult sciences, common to them and to the Suder
caste; we cannot be surprized to find these crafty itinerants, should avail themselves of such
an opportunity, as coming out of that country, to profess themselves Egyptians.

Continental writers exhibit a strange assemblage of crude, and incongruous ideas on the subject
of Gypsey extraction.  So numerous are the opinions diffusely stated, that Grellmann must have
exercised much patient investigation, to deduce from them the rational and satisfactory conclusions
which his Dissertation presents.

Our countryman Swinborne, in describing the Gypsies in Calabria, is the first to remark that
their peculiar language bears great affinity to the oriental tongues; and that many of their
customs resemble those of the heathens.  But European ignorance of the habits and speech of
Asiatics may be accounted for, whilst the rich productions of India continued to be brought
to Egyptian ports, and to be conveyed thence by the Lombard merchants, to be distributed over
Europe

The Cingari, Zigeuners, or Gypsies, had been in Germany nearly a century, before the Portuguese
discovered the passage to India by the Cape of Good Hope.  The stimulus which this discovery
gave to improvements in the art of navigation, soon opened immediate intercourse with the eastern
world.  Vast are the establishments, which have been subsequently effected, in that quarter
of the globe by naval powers, and extraordinary have been, of late years, the exertions for
the acquisition of oriental languages; yet so numerous are they in those widely extended regions,
that European knowledge of Asiatic etymology, is yet but in a state of infancy.

The case of the Gypsies is singular; for it may fairly be questioned, whether it has a parallel
in the history of the world.  Dispersed over the face of the earth, without any organization
of their different hordes; and all concert between them entirely precluded by separations of
hundreds of miles from each other, in different parts of the globe, and by their incapacity
for literary communication; they have, however, whilst speaking the languages of the respective
countries they inhabit, preserved in all places one peculiar to themselves, and have transmitted
it through a lapse of centuries to their descendants, almost unimpaired.

Increased acquaintance with oriental customs and tongues, has, at length, discovered the near
coincidence they have with the language of the Gypsies, and has developed an origin of this
people, of which those of the present age were, till now, entirely ignorant.  It will appear
extraordinary, that these people should have been able, by oral means alone, and under all
disadvantages, to retain their language, and yet not to have handed down with it, any tradition
that might lead to a discovery of who they were, or whence they came.  But the knowledge recently
acquired, of their very abject condition in the country from which they emigrated, offers a
reason why the first comers might be anxious to conceal their pedigree, the meanness of which
would have but ill accorded with the titles of rank assumed by some of their leaders.

The regulations proposed by the Empress Theresa, and the Emperor Joseph II. could they have
been carried into effect, would doubtless have improved the state of the Gypsies.  But an order
for children to be torn away from their parents, was so far from being dictated by the study
of human nature, that it did violence to the tenderest sensibilities, and set at nought the
kindest emotions.  Its tendency was to produce in the minds of Gypsies, disaffection to the
state, and to indispose others from aiding in the execution of the edict.  The advantages to
be derived by Governments from a liberal toleration, being not then so well understood as in
succeeding times, they were not duly regarded.

Those potentates considering Zigeuners of Egyptian origin, might reasonably conceive agriculture
well adapted to their genius and inclination; but it was a pursuit, which, more than any other,
they disapproved.

All other Governments appear to have been misled, in like manner, by the deception which the
first Gypsies practised; for had they been apprized of this people’s descent, and of the almost
unalterable pertinacity of an Indian caste, they would have been sensible that an attempt to
change their habits by force, was a measure the least likely to be attended with success.

The Circular introduced in the ninth Section of this work, notices Gypsies being hunted like
beasts of prey, from township to township in England; and it has been ascertained, that in
some places they are routed, as it is termed, by order of magistrates, whenever they appear,
and sent to prison on the vagrant act, without so much as a charge of depredation upon property.
“This is to make their persons, an object of persecution, instead of the protection of our laws.”

For the credit of our country it may be hoped, that instances of this sort, respecting Gypsies,
are not very numerous; seeing all writers concur in stating, every attempt by coercive means
to alter the peculiar habits of this people, have had a tendency to alienate them still more
from civil associations, and directly to defeat the end proposed.  It is time therefore that
a better and a more enlightened policy should be adopted in Europe, towards a race of human
beings, under so many hereditary disadvantages as are the helpless, the rude, the uninstructed
Gypsies.

In the decision on the vagrant case, in Crabbe’s “Hall of Justice,” {231a} and in the treatment
of Gypsies on Knoland-Green, {231b} a temper is displayed so truly Christian, and so different
from what is just alluded to, that in consulting the best feelings of human nature, it adds
dignity to magistracy.

Sir Frederick Morton Eden, in his first volume on the State of the Poor, p. 306, refers to
an Act passed in 1741, respecting that class of the poor, who are considered by the Legislature
as the outcasts of society, namely rogues, vagabonds, &c.; and he remarks: “From perusing the
catalogue of actions which denominate a man, a disorderly person, a vagabond, or incorrigible
rogue, the reader may perhaps incline to think that many of the offences specified in this
Act, and in subsequent statutes, on the same subject, are of a very dubious nature, and that
it must require nice legal acumen, to distinguish whether a person incurs any, and what, penalty,
under the vagrant laws.”

In support of this opinion, and of the indefinite and unjustifiable latitude of those statutes,
a late decision at Maidstone, in the action of Robins, v. Boyce, affords a striking demonstration.

If the statutes do not admit of any construction in favor of Gypsies, but enjoin rigorous treatment
of them, merely for wandering, it may become a question whether the peculiar circumstances
of their case, might not constitute an exception to the general rule.

However wholesome and salutary vagrant Acts may be, to deter persons from quitting their parishes
in order to levy contributions, by practising impositions in places where they are not known,
it is obvious that Gypsies, having no parochial settlements, cannot come under that description.
Excepting a temporary residence of some of them in winter, their home is a whole county, and
the majority of them are too independent to apply to any parish for assistance.

Here is a trait in their character, which, were it grafted on the stock of half the paupers
in the kingdom, would be a national advantage.

It ought to procure some indulgence for the Gypsies, that their wandering mode of life does
not originate in any contumacious opposition to judicial order; but in a scrupulous regard
to the Institutions of their ancestors.  For the advantages we possess, shall we return injury
to our fellow-men!  If after being fully introduced into a situation to taste the comforts
of social order, and to acquire a knowledge of mechanical professions, which would render them
useful and respectable, any of them, despising these privileges, should indulge wandering dispositions,
they might then deserve all the punishment which under the vagrant Acts, can be indicted.

It is worthy of remark, that in the evidence respecting mendicity in London, adduced last year
before the Committee of the House of Commons, there is only a single instance in the parish
called St. Giles, that noted rendezvous of Gypsies, of one of their tribe, a girl, begging
in the streets.

Is it not high time the people of England were undeceived, respecting the motives to Gypsey
perseverance in their singular line of conduct.  Their invincible attachment to the traditions
they have received, is almost proof, in itself, of Grellmann’s assertion, that they are the
descendants of an Indian caste; in whose estimation inviolable adherence to the customs of
their order, constitutes the highest perfection of character.

When any remark is made to them on their strange mode of conduct, they are ready to reply:
“The inhabitants of cieled houses follow the customs of their predecessors; What more do we?
Are they creatures of habit?  So are we.”

After this account, is it surprising that the violent means pursued against them in all countries,
have been ineffectual to abolish their peculiarities?

Their humane and intelligent biographer, Grellmann, styles them a “singular phenomenon in Europe;”
and it may justly be observed of such of them as inhabit countries accounted the most enlightened,
that the contrast which their destitute state presents to the numerous advantages of civilized
life, and to the refinements of polished society, is truly astonishing.  If there possibly
can be a single Briton who is a skeptic to the benefits of education, let him only take a view
of the intellectual degradation and disgusting condition of the Gypsies.  But if Britons have
made greater advancement in civilization than some other nations, the Gypsies here are left
at a greater distance, and furnish the more occasion for their condition being improved.

It does not appear that the Pariars, or Suders, from whom it is believed these swarthy itinerants
of our age are descended, were farther advanced in the knowledge of moral obligations, than
were the Spartan people; who, however celebrated for some of their Institutions, accounted
the successful perpetration of thefts to be honourable.

The Gypsies at Kirk Yetholm, as stated by Baillie Smith, in this part of their conduct, are
an exact counterpart of the Spartans.  To a people of Greece, the foremost of their time in
legislative arrangements, who had cultivated so little sense of the turpitude of injustice,
surely a much more criminal neglect may be imputed, than to the ignorant, untutored race we
have been surveying!

Malcolm, in his Anecdotes of the manners and customs of London, p. 350, says of the English
Gypsies: “Despised, and neglected, they naturally became plunderers and thieves to obtain a
subsistence.”  But when he afterward states, that “They increased rapidly, and at length were
found in all parts of the country,” we may be disposed to think that British fastidiousness
was not less ingenious than that of the Spaniards, who considered themselves contaminated by
a touch of the Gypsies, unless it were to have their fortunes told.  Venality and deception
meeting with so much encouragement, those propensities of the human heart would be generated
and fostered, which at length produced flagrant impositions, and the greatest enormities.

The dominion of superstition was at its zenith, in what are termed the middle ages: so absolute
and uncontrolled was its influence, that because of reputed skill in exorcism and witchcraft,
the deluded Germans reposed implicit confidence in persons so ignorant as the Gypsies.

The Committee of the British and Foreign School Society, in their Report for 1815, express
their conviction of the advantages of education, in correcting evils, which at once disgrace
society, and deprive it of many, who might be its most useful and active members; and then,
they exclaim: “Surely we may hope the day is not far distant, when Statesmen and Legislators
of all countries, will open their eyes to the awfully important truth; and beholding in a sound
and moral education, the grand secret of national strength, will co-operate for the prevention,
rather than the punishment of crimes!”

It was not until near the conclusion of the last year, and after the author had inspected some
of the Gypsey families who winter in London, that he was apprized of the correspondence in
the Christian Observer, which forms part of the preceding Section.  The position with which
it commences, is worthy of all acceptation, as applied to beings formed for immortality: “The
Divine Spirit of Christianity deems no object, however unworthy and insignificant, beneath
her notice.  On their behalf, appeals to the public have been subsequently made, as we have
seen in Section IX, through the medium of the Northampton Mercury of 1814, by two correspondents;
one under the designation of “A Friend to Religion;” the other, that of “Junius.”

Communications from a county which has long been a noted rendezvous of Gypsies, may be considered
the result of observations actually made on their state.  The first of these appeals is introduced
in the following manner: “Various are the religious and moral Institutions in this country;
humanity and benevolence have risen to an unprecedented height. Not only for our country, are
the exertions of the good and great employed, but at this time the greatest efforts are making
on behalf of the distressed Germans.  The hand of charity is open not only to the alleviation
of present misery, but such an Institution as the Bible Society, is calculated to excite thousands
to seek for future happiness.  Yet amidst all, one set of people seems to be entirely excluded
from participating in any of those blessings; I mean Gypsies, who are accounted rogues and
vagabonds.  When we consider that they, equally with ourselves, are bought with a price, much
remains to be done for them.  These people, however wretched and depraved, certainly demand
attention; their being overlooked with indifference, is really much to be regretted.

“Instead of being subjects of commiseration, they are advertised as rogues and vagabonds; and
a reward offered for their apprehension.  But no asylum is offered them, nothing is held out
to encourage a reformation in any that might be disposed to abandon their accustomed vices.”
The same writer, in a subsequent letter, dated September 8, respecting these houseless wanderers,
remarks: “I was representing the deplorable state they are in, to a person of my acquaintance;
and his reply was: They were a set of worthless and undeserving wretches; and he believed they
would rather live as they do, than otherwise; with many other such like inconsiderate ideas;
resulting, I believe, from a prejudiced mind, and from not properly considering their situation;
and I fear these sentiments are too prevalent.”

It will readily be admitted, that they are generally prevalent: and how should it be otherwise,
so long as the great mass of the population of England continues to be uninformed of the motives
inducing the strange conduct of Gypsies, who consider themselves under the strongest of all
obligations, strictly to observe the Institution of their ancestors.  Had Britons been apprized
of the origin of this people, and the peculiar circumstances of their case, the national character
would not have been stained, by the abuse and mal-treatment which Gypsies have received.

It is very satisfactory to find by the before recited correspondence, an inhabitant of the
county in which the Gypsies are so numerous, advocating their cause, by a public exposure of
the mistaken ideas which have so long prevailed respecting them.

From the length of time they have continued to reside in Britain, they have ceased to become
subjects of much curiosity or conversation.  And as they endeavour to avoid populous districts,
persons in large towns, who are occupied in trade, seem little aware that in the county they
inhabit, there may be hordes of these wanderers, traversing the thinly inhabited parts of it,
in various directions, as was the case in Yorkshire during the last summer. (1815.)

When the amelioration of the condition of this people is mentioned to persons of the above
description, so little informed are they on the subject, that it is many times treated as if
the existence of Gypsies was questioned; at others, as if affording any help to them, was visionary,
and even ludicrous.

Some places formerly frequented by Gypsey gangs, having been much deserted by them of late
years, does not authorize any calculation upon a decrease of their numbers in the nation.

In the vicinity of the metropolis, Gypsies have been excluded by inclosures from various situations
to which they had been accustomed to resort.  But there is some reason to apprehend they have
become more numerous, in several other parts of the Island.  Baillie Smith of Kelso, is of
opinion, they increase in Scotland, and it is by no means certain that they do not in England.

Any idea that routing them will lessen their numbers, may be as fallacious, and injudicious,
as were banishments from the German States, which, without diminishing Gypsey population, had
the injurious effect of alienating them still more from civil associations.

Junius, the other correspondent of the Northampton Mercury, in his Address of October 29, writes:
“I trust the time is not distant, when much will be accomplished, as it respects the civilization
of the people whose cause we plead.  In the meantime, I would humbly hope all those harsh and
degrading measures, of publicly in the papers, and upon placards by the sides of roads, ordering
their apprehension and commitment to prison, will be suspended, until some asylum is offered;
and should nothing be attempted by the Legislature, for reclaiming them from their present
mode of life, surely much may be done by the exertions of individuals!”

Many of the observations in the Christian Observer, and in the Northampton Mercury, are striking
and pertinent, as they relate to the present state of the Gypsies in England; and the philanthropy
they inculcate is honourable to the national character.  Had these benevolent individuals been
acquainted with the history of the people, whose cause they plead, they would, doubtless, have
suggested plans adapted to their peculiar case.  For want of this knowledge, it is not surprising
that occupations in husbandry should take the lead in propositions for employing them.  The
last mentioned writer, from a desire to render essential service to this people, suggests,
that the Legislature should fix upon five or six stations in different parts of the kingdom,
on which villages should be erected, in order that they might be employed in farming.

It will have been obvious in the survey which has been taken, and it has been already remarked,
that of all occupations, agriculture is the least adapted to their genius and inclination.

It has appeared in Section IX, that Riley Smith, a chief of the Northamptonshire Gypsies, after
marrying the cook out of a gentleman’s family, and obtaining a farm, quitted it, to resume
musical performances.

Conformity to agricultural employments, could not be effected in Gypsies, by the most rigorous
measures to which the Empress Theresa, and the Emperor Joseph II. resorted.—Much less could
it be expected that persons, who, all their lives, have accustomed themselves to be in the
open air, or others who have lived three parts of the year in this manner, should be induced,
in open weather, to brook the restraint of houses.

Those who have houses at Kirk Yetholm, quit them in spring: men, women, and children, set out
on their peregrinations over the country, and live in a state of vagrancy, until driven back
to their habitations by the approach of winter; and it appears, in all countries to which the
Gypsies have had access, that a similar course is pursued by them.

In a dialogue between a Curate and some Gypsies, as published in the Christian Guardian, of
March, 1812, is the following question and answer:

Curate.  “Could you not by degrees bring yourselves to a more settled mode of life?

Gypsey.  I would not tell you a story, Sir; I really think I could not, having been brought
up to it from a child.”

Upon this conversation, the Curate makes the following remark: “In order to do good among the
Gypsies, we must conciliate their esteem, and gain their confidence.”

The plain and simple reply to the Curate, will put out of question the erection of villages,
or the making of establishments for adults among them.  In mechanical operations, to which
the Gypsies are most inclined, British artisans might be as averse to unite with them, as they
were with the Jews.  The Spaniards, it has appeared, are unwilling to be associated with Gypsies
in any kind of occupation.  Moreover, the competition of manufacturers in England, during the
last fifty years, has effected by artificial means, so much saving of manual labour, and so
much improvement in the division of it, that the rude operations of Gypsies, would be a subject
of ridicule and contempt.  There are thousands of other people in the nation, who, more than
half their time, live out of doors in like manner. Were they all obliged to take out licences,
this measure might operate in some degree as a check upon them; at least it would be a tacit
acknowledgment of a controlling power, and might admit of some regulation of their conduct.
At present, numbers of them resemble a lawless banditti, and may not inaptly be termed, Imperium
in imperio.

It appears by J. P.’s letter from Cambridge, that six years ago, he had engaged a Gypsey boy
to be sent to a school on the Belleian and Lancasterian plan.  At that time, the system had
been but little appropriated in the country to the instruction of girls; and the application
of it to boys only, would have been doing the work by halves. But the time seems now to have
arrived, when the minds of Gypsies have generally received an impression in favor of the education,
both of their sons and daughters, as has been manifest in various parts of this Survey; and
that some of those who lodge in London, have been themselves at the expense of sending their
children to school.  But if all of them could be thus taught, three months in a year, would
not their running wild the other nine, under the influence of dissolute and unrestrained example,
be likely to defeat every purpose of instruction.

Were they to be educated during the whole of the year, it is obvious that some establishment
would be necessary for their maintenance and clothing. The author of this Survey is not aware
of any Institutions so much adapted to their case, as the charity schools for boys and girls,
which are common to every part of the kingdom.  It is not probable that Gypsey population would
furnish more than two boys, and two girls, for each of these schools.  Their being placed among
a much greater number of children, and those of settled, and in some degree of civilized habits,
would greatly facilitate the training of Gypsies to salutary discipline and subordination;
and the associations it provided for them out of school hours, being under the superintendence
of a regular family, would, in an especial manner, be favorable to their domestication.

Charity schools, by admitting children so early as at six years of age, and continuing them
to fourteen, seem particularly suited to the case of Gypsies, in supplying all that is requisite
until the boys are at an age to go out apprentices, and the girls to service in families.

Gypsies being the children of a whole county, if not of the nation at large, perhaps the expense
of their maintenance might, without inconsistency, be defrayed out of county rates, which would
prevent its being burdensome to any particular district.  By a process so simple and easy,
expensive establishments on the account of Gypsies, might be entirely avoided.  And many parents
among them, express a willingness to part with their children, for education, provided they
were cared for in other respects.

After several centuries, a degree of solicitude being at length apparent in the Gypsies, for
the improvement of their children, the time has arrived when some effectual benefit may be
communicated to them.

The distribution proposed, would admit of these itinerants seeing their children once in the
year.  But to extirpate Gypsey habits, education alone would not be sufficient.  Yet as there
is no reason to think this people are less susceptible than others, of gainful considerations,
a fund might be provided, out of which, twenty pounds should be paid with each boy, on his
apprenticeship to some handicraft business, in lieu of finding him with clothes during the
term.  And in consideration of its being faithfully served, five pounds might be allowed to
find the young man with tools for his trade, or otherwise setting him forward in the world.
This would excite an interest in civil associations and order, which are necessary for the
successful prosecution of trade; and probably, an encouragement like this, would have a greater
effect in giving a new direction to Gypsey pursuits, than any coercive or restrictive measures
which could be devised.  And who would not wish to contribute to the means of rescuing from
ignorance and vice, such a portion of the population of their country!  Who would not be desirous
of emulating in some degree, that best kind of patriotism, by which the correspondent H. of
the Christian Observer, is so remarkably distinguished!

This would be an example worthy of a great nation; and is it not probable, that the prospect
of so much preferment, would induce Gypsey parents, to promote to the utmost of their power,
a disposition in their children to obtain it?  Cooper, a Gypsey at Chingford Green, said, “It
is a pity they should be as ignorant as their fathers.”  This may be considered as the language
of “help us,” accompanied with this acknowledgment, “for we are unable to help ourselves;”
and certainly there is but too much reason to conclude it is strictly true, respecting the
instruction of this forlorn and destitute race.

According to the enumeration of Gypsey lodgers, given in Section X, their families average
5½ in number.  This exceeds by one half, what is reported to be the average of England in general.
If we take Gypsey population at 18,000, their children will be 12,000.  Supposing two-thirds
of these to be under twelve years of age, there would be 8,000 to educate.  Reckoning half
that number to be girls, 4,000 boys would be to be apprenticed after leaving school.  And if
these, after their apprenticeship, married Gypsey girls, who had been brought up to service
in families, twenty thousand useful subjects might be calculated upon as gained to the State
in the first generation.

Should the efforts of individuals, require assistance from the State, to render their plans
effectual; surely they may depend on the co-operation of a British legislature, to promote
the cause in which they would embark!  On this point may be adduced the judicious observation
of Grellmann: “If the Gypsey knows not how to make use of the faculties with which nature has
intrusted him, let the State teach him, and keep him in leading strings till the end is attained.
This recommencement of operations, directed to the important object for which Governments have
been instituted,—the good of the people,—encourages the hope, that the most neglected and destitute
of all persons in this country, whose cause we have been pleading, will not be suffered to
remain much longer unnoticed and disregarded.

When at length the veil that has obscured them is once drawn aside, can British benevolence
withhold its exertions, to elevate the moral tone of this degraded eastern race, and to call
forth the dignity of the human character, in exchange for the strange torpor and vileness in
which this people are involved.  Here an occasion presents for the display of a temper truly
Christian, and for the erection of a standard to surrounding kingdoms, in which also these
outcasts of society are dispersed, of that philanthropy and sound policy which are worthy of
a great nation.

Such an experiment, though on a limited scale, may furnish various data for judging what may
be effected for their countrymen, the countless myriads of British subjects, inhabiting the
vast regions of Hindostan.

Alexander Fraser Tytler, late Assistant Judge in the twenty-four Pergunnahs, Bengal Establishment,
in his highly important work, entitled, “Considerations on the present Political State of India,”
after pointing out the depravity which prevails to an extraordinary degree among the population
of India, states in the 313th page of the first volume, that “Poverty, or according to the
definition of writers on Police, Indigence may be said to be the nurse of almost all crimes.
To find out the causes of poverty, and to attempt their removal, must therefore be the chief
object of a good police.”

It has been remarked, that this author drew his conclusions, not only from what he understood
of human nature in general, but from what he daily saw before him, in the circumstances and
actions of the people whose crimes he was called upon to punish.  And he reasons upon the subject
in the following manner: “Great poverty among the lower orders in every country, has an immediate
effect in multiplying the number of petty thieves; and where the bounds of the moral principle
have been once over-stepped, however trivial the first offence, the step is easy from petty
theft to the greater crimes of burglary and robbery.”

May Britons in their conduct towards the Gypsies, be actuated by a policy so liberal, as to
induce the rising generation among this neglected class, to attach themselves to civil society,
and to enter into situations designed to inculcate habits of industry, and prepare them to
become useful members of the community.

The successful experiments lately made by the British and Foreign School Society, upon persons
addicted to every species of depravity, leave no doubt of the practicability of ameliorating
the condition of Gypsies.  It is with pleasure that on this subject the following statement
of facts is introduced, respecting two schools established in the neighbourhood of the metropolis.
One of them at Kingsland, a situation which has been termed, “A focus where the most abandoned
characters constantly assembled for every species of brutal and licentious disorder.”  The
other is at Bowyer-lane, near Camberwell, a district inhabited by persons of the worst description;
among whom the police officers have been accustomed to look for the various kinds of offenders,
who have infested the Borough of Southwark.

We are informed by the Committee of that School, that “in the district embraced by their Society,
the consequences of ignorance were evident to the most superficial observer.  Parents and children,
appeared alike regardless of morality and virtue; the former indulging in profligacy, and the
latter exhibiting its lamentable effects.

“Did the friends of universal education require a fresh illustration, they would find it in
the scene we are now contemplating; and they would confidently invite those who still entertain
a doubt on the subject, to a more close and rigid examination of that scene, satisfied with
the effect upon every candid and unprejudiced mind.  For, assuredly, “men do not gather grapes
of thorns, nor figs of thistles:” and when morality, decency, and order, are gradually occupying
the abodes of licentiousness, misery, and guilt, the change must be attributed to some operating
cause, and that cause must be derived from the Source of all Good.

“The principles of decorum, of propriety, and of virtue, are instilled into the youthful mind;
and by a powerful reaction, they reach the heart of the parent; the moral atmosphere extends—its
benefits are felt and appreciated—the Bible takes its proper place in the habitations of poverty;
and thus in its simple, natural, and certain course, the germ of instruction yields the happy
fruit of moral reformation.”

If as Grellmann computes, there are not fewer than 700,000 of these people in Europe, who do
not either plough, or sow, or the greater part of them contribute in any manner to the improvement
of the country, or the support of the State, what a subject is this, for the contemplation
of Governments!  Let it but be cleared of weeds, and sown with good seed, and the judicious
cultivator may calculate upon a crop to compensate his toil.

Greater proof of confidence, as to money transactions, not being misplaced in Gypsies need
not be given, than in the testimony of the landlord at Kirk Yetholm, to William Smith, that
his master knew he was as sure of their money, as if he had it in his pocket.

In Dr. Clarke’s Travels, published in the present year, Part the 2nd of Section 3rd, page 592,
are the following observations respecting the Gypsies of Hungary: “The Wallachian Gypsies are
not an idle race.  They might rather be described as a laborious people; and the greater part
of them honestly endeavour to earn a livelihood.  It is this part of them who work as gold-washers.”

In page 637, the Doctor remarks: “The Wallachians of the Bannat, bear a very bad character,
and perhaps many of the offences attributed to Gypsies, may be due to this people, who are
the least civilized, and the most ferocious of all the inhabitants of Hungary.” {262}

Could grateful sensibility of favors received, and of personal attachment, be more strikingly
evinced than in the promptitude of Will Faa, who when he was eighty years of age, on hearing
of his landlord being unwell, undertook, at the hazard of his life, a journey of a hundred
miles, to see him before he died?

The attention of Gypsies to the aged and infirm of their fraternity, is not less exhibited
in the case of Ann Day, whose age is inserted in a work on human longevity, published at Salisbury
in 1799.  She was aged 108, and had not slept in a bed during seventy years.  She was well
known in the counties of Bedford and Herts, and having been a long time blind, she always rode
upon an ass, attended by two or three of the tribe.  A friend of the author, a farmer near
Baldock, who had frequently given food and straw for the old woman, says of the attendants
she had, her comfort and support seemed to be their chief concern.  He considers her longevity
a proof of the kindness she received.  Her interment, which was at Arsley, near Henlow, was
attended by her son and daughter, the one 82, the other 85 years of age, each having great
grand-children.

It must have been a satisfaction to every one interested in the improvement of human nature,
to observe the number of advocates who have come forward, within the last ten years, in this
country, to plead the cause of this despised and abused people.

In bringing their case before the public, the author has aimed at discharging what he thought
incumbent upon him to undertake on their behalf.  He trusts that persons much more competent
than himself, will be induced to give effect to whatever measures may be thought best adapted
to promote the temporal, as well as spiritual benefit of this people; and that as H, the correspondent
of the Christian Observer, remarks: “amidst the great light that prevails, the reproach may
be wiped away from our country, of so many of its children walking in darkness, and in the
shadow of death.”

Can a nation, whose diffusive philanthropy extends to the civilization of a quarter of the
globe, and to the evangelization of the whole world, be regardless of any of the children of
her own bosom, or suffer the pious, truly patriotic solicitude of her King, for the instruction
of the meanest of his subjects to remain unaccomplished.

Many persons appear zealous to send Missionaries to convert heathens in the most distant parts
of the world; when, as a late writer {264} observes, “the greatest, perhaps of all heathens,
are at home, entirely neglected.”

Peace and tranquillity are favorable to the improvement of the internal condition of a country;
and can Britain more unequivocally testify her gratitude for the signal favors conferred upon
her, than in promoting that object for which rational beings were formed—the glory of God,
and the happiness of his creatures.

In relation to the uncultivated race we have been surveying, may a guarded and religious education
prove to them, as the voice crying in the wilderness: “Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make
straight in the desert an highway for our God.”  The subsequent declaration, without doubt,
is descriptive of what should be effected under the gospel dispensation: “The crooked shall
be made straight, and the rough places plain: And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed,
and all flesh shall see it together; for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.”—Isaiah, Chap.
xl. v. 3, 4, 6.

                                  FINIS.

                                * * * * *

                  Printed by HARGROVE, GAWTHORP, & COBB.
                           Herald-Office, York.

                                * * * * *

PUBLISHED BY WILLIAM ALEXANDER, YORK

I.  An epitome of the history of the world, by JOHN          1 2 0 HOYLAND, Author of A HISTORICAL
SURVEY, &c.—The Epitome takes a comprehensive view of the Creation, of the Antediluvians, and
of the universal Deluge, united with a Biographical Portraiture of the Patriarchs, and an examination
of their respective characters and conduct.  The historical department takes a survey of the
peopling of the world, of the origin and subversion of nations, and exhibits the fulfilment
of prophecies contained in the old Testament; particularly as they relate to the Jews; evincing
the connexion of Divine dispensations, during 4000 years; 2nd edit. much improved, 2 vols.
8vo. fine paper, ext. bds.

Ditto, in 2 vols. 12mo, half bound, for the            13 0 use of Schools.

II.  “A DESCRIPTION of the RETREAT near YORK,” for           12 0 persons afflicted with disorders
of the mind, among the Society of Friends; giving a historical narrative of the rise and progress
of the Institution; a description of the moral and medical treatment practised in it, and many
other interesting particulars; with three 4to plates, descriptive of the buildings, by S. TUKE,
4to. fine paper, extra bds.

III.  PRACTICAL HINTS on the Construction and Economy             2 0 of PAUPER LUNATIC ASYLUMS;
including Instructions to the Architects who offered plans for the Wakefield Asylum, and a
sketch of the most approved design, by S. TUKE

IV.  DUTIES OF RELIGION AND MORALITY, as inculcated in            2 6 the Holy Scriptures;
adapted to the perusal of persons of every religious denomination, by H. TUKE, pot 8vo, sheep
lettered, or 12mo, boards, each

Ditto, pot 8vo, stitched                                   2 0

Ditto, 12mo, boards, fine paper                            3 6

  A good allowance made to purchasers of one dozen copies or more of
                              this work.

V.  IMPORTANCE OF RELIGION.  In this small tract the             15 0 advantages and necessity
of a religious life are forcibly impressed, in a manner adapted to the understandings of every
capacity; and worthy the attention and perusal of all, 18mo, stitched, com. 2s. per doz.; 12s.
per 100; fine 3d. each; per doz. 2s. 6d.; per 100

Ditto, royal 12mo. 6d.;—per doz. 5s.;—per         1 10 0 100

                      [Picture: Decorative divider]

Footnotes:

{82}  In the 31st page of Sir Frederick Morton Eden’s Appendix to the State of the Poor, it
appears that in 1426, a hay horse, for the Prior (we may suppose of prime quality) cost £1
6s. 8d. and a colt 4s. 6d.  And in the year 1448, page 34, the hay of one acre was estimated at 5s.

{89}  Weirde, is derived from the Anglo-Saxon “wird;” i.e., fatum, or deafinie, and is used
in this sense, in Hollinshed.

{94}  Ballie is a material designation in Scotland, agreeing in rank with that of Alderman
in England.

{201}  Vol. vii. p. 496, 497.

{205}  Vol. vii. p. 712.

{206}  Vol. viii. p. 286.

{208}  Vol. ix. p. 82, 83.

{211}  Vol. ix. p. 278, 279, 280.

{212}  Since writing the above, a friend has informed me that Norwood is now inclosed, and
has ceased to be a rendezvous of Gypsies.

{217}  Vol. ix. p. 554, 555.

{221}  Frederick Smith, of Croydon, Surry.

{231a}  Vide Crabbe’s Poems.

{231b}  See No. 104, Sunday School Tracts.

{248}  The benevolent Jonas Hanway took a Gypsey boy into his family, for the purpose of making
an experiment, but the result has not come to the knowledge of the author.

{262}  At page 691, is a Vignette of Gypsies washing gold in Hungary.

{264}  Samuel Tuke, Author of a Description of the Retreat, &c.

