"What would happen," inquired Linda, "if everything did NOT go smoothly? Katy, do you think
the roof would blow straight up if I had MY way about something, just for a change?"

"No, I think the roof would stay right where it belongs," said Katy with a chuckle, "but I
do think its staying there would not be because Miss Eileen wanted it to."

"Well," said Linda deliberately, "we won't waste any time on thinking We are going to have
some positive knowledge on the subject pretty immediately. I don't feel equal to starting any
domestic santana today, but the forces are gathering and the blow is coming soon. To that I
have firmly made up my mind."

"It's not the least mite I'm blaming you, honey," said Katy.

"Ye've got to be such a big girl that it's only fair things in this house should go a good
deal different."

"Is Marian to be here?" asked Linda as she stood beside the stove peering into pans and kettles.

"Miss Eileen didn't say," replied Katy.

Linda's eyes reddened suddenly. She slammed down a lid with vicious emphasis.

"That is another deal Eileen's engineered," she said, "that is just about as wrong as anything
possibly can be. What makes me the maddest about it is that John Gilman will let Eileen take
him by the nose and lead him around like a ringed calf. Where is his common sense? Where is
his perception? Where is his honor?"

"Now wait, dearie," said Katy soothingly, "wait. John Gilman is a mighty fine man. Ye know
how your father loved him and trusted him and gave him charge of all his business affairs.
Ye mustn't go so far as to be insinuating that he is lacking in honor."

"No," said Linda, "that was not fair. I don't in the least know that he ever ASKED Marian to
marry him; but I do know that as long as he was a struggling, threadbare young lawyer Marian
was welcome to him, and they had grand times together. The minute he won the big Bailey suit
and came into public notice and his practice increased until he was independent, that minute
Eileen began to take notice, and it looks to me now as if she very nearly had him."

"And so far as I can see," said Katy, "Miss Marian is taking it without a struggle. She is
not lifting a finger or making a move to win him back."

"Of course she isn't!" said Linda indignantly. "If she thought he preferred some other girl
to her, she would merely say: 'If John has discovered that he likes Eileen the better, why,
that is all right; but there wouldn't be anything to prevent seeing Eileen take John from hurting
like the deuce. Did you ever lose a man you loved, Katy?"

"That I did not!" said Katy emphatically. "We didn't do any four or five years' philanderin'
to see if a man 'could make good' when I was a youngster. When a girl and her laddie stood
up to each other and looked each other straight in the eye and had the great understanding,
there weren't no question of whether he could do for her what her father and mither had been
doing, nor of how much he had to earn before they would be able to begin life together. They
just caught hands and hot-footed it to the praste and told him to read the banns the next Sunday,
and when the law allowed they was man and wife and taking what life had for them the way it
came, and together. All this philanderin' that young folks do nowadays is just pure nonsense,
and waste of time."

"Sure!" laughed Linda. "When my brave comes along with his blanket I'll just step under, and
then if anybody tries to take my man I'll have the right to go on the warpath and have a scalping
party that would be some satisfaction to the soul."

Then they served the dinner, and when the guests had left the dining room, Katy closed the
doors, and brought on the delicacies she had hidden for Linda and patted and cajoled her while
she ate like any healthy, hungry young creature.

CHAPTER II. Cotyledon of Multiflores Canyon

"'Ave, atque vale!' Cotyledon!"

Linda slid down the side of the canyon with the deftness of the expert. At the first available
crevice she thrust in her Alpine stick, and bracing herself, gained a footing. Then she turned
and by use of her fingers and toes worked her way back to the plan, she had passed. She was
familiar with many members of she family, but such a fine specimen she seldom had found and
she could not recall having seen it in all of her botanies. Opposite the plant she worked out
a footing, drove her stick deep at the base of a rock to brace herself, and from the knapsack
on her back took a sketchbook and pencil and began rapidly copying the thick fleshy leaves
of the flattened rosette, sitting securely at the edge of a rock. She worked swiftly and with
breathless interest. When she had finished the flower she began sketching in the moss-covered
face of the boulder against which it grew, and other bits of vegetation near.

"I think, Coty," she said, "it is very probable that I can come a few simoleons with you. You
are becoming better looking ever minute."

For a touch of color she margined one side of her drawing with a little spray of Pentstemon
whose bright tubular flower the canyon knew as "hummingbird's dinner horn." That gave, her
the idea of introducing a touch of living interest, so bearing down upon the flowers from the
upper right-hand corner of her drawing she deftly sketched in a ruby-throated hummingbird,
and across the bottom of the sheet the lace of a few leaves of fern. Then she returned the
drawing and pencil to her knapsack, and making sure of her footing, worked her way forward.
With her long slender fingers she began teasing the plant loose from the rock and the surrounding
soil. The roots penetrated deeper than she had supposed and in her interest she forgot her
precarious footing and pulled hard. The plant gave way unexpectedly, and losing her balance,
Linda plunged down the side of the canyon catching wildly at shrubs and bushes and bruising
herself severely on stones, finally landing in a sitting posture on the road that traversed
the canyon.

She was not seriously hurt, but she did not present a picturesque figure as she sprawled in
the road, her booted feet thrust straight before her, one of her long black braids caught on
a bush at her back, her blouse pulled above her breeches, the contents of her knapsack decorating
the canyon side and the road around her; but high in one hand, without break or blemish, she
triumphantly held aloft the rare Cotyledon. She shrugged her shoulders, wiggled her toes, and
moved her arms to assure herself that no bones were broken; then she glanced at her drawings
and the fruits of her day's collecting scattered on the roadside around her. She was in the
act of rising when a motor car containing two young men shot around a curve of the canyon,
swerved to avoid running over her, and stopped as abruptly as possible.

"It's a girl!" cried the driver, and both men sprang to the road and hurried to Linda's assistance.
Her dark cheeks were red with mortification, but she managed to recover her feet and tuck in
her blouse before they reached her.

"We heard you coming down," said the elder of the young men, "and we thought you might be a
bear. Are you sure you're not hurt?"

Linda stood before them, a lithe slender figure, vivid with youth and vitality.

"I am able to stand," she said, "so of course I haven't broken any bones. I think I am fairly
well battered, but you will please to observe that there isn't a scratch on Cotyledon, and
I brought her down--at least I think it's she--from the edge of that boulder away up there.
Isn't she a beauty? Only notice the delicate frosty 'bloom' on her leaves!"

"I should prefer," said the younger of the men, "to know whether you have any broken bones."

