THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 10, No. 288.] SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Return of a Victorious Armament to a Greek City.

SPIRIT OF "THE ANNUALS" FOR 1828.

Our readers have annually anticipated a high treat from this splendid intellectual banquet,
served up by some of the master[1] spirits of the age.

    [1] We hope this epithet will not be considered ungallant--for, to
        say the truth, the ladies have contributed the best poetical
        portion of the feast. This display of female talent has
        increased in brilliancy year after year: and the Lords should
        look to it.

We doubt whether the comparison is refined enough for the fair authoresses; but our fancy has
led us to class their contributions to the present feast as follow:--

Hock--Champagne, (Still and Sparkling.)

L.E.L. Hood.

Bucellas.

Miss Mitford. Bernard Barton.

Lacrymae Christi.

Mrs. Hemans. Watts. Delta.

Port.

Coleridge. Southey.

Claret.

Montgomery,

with a due proportion of vin ordinaire. This comparison may be pleasant enough as after-dinner
chat, but we fear our readers will think it like cooks circulating the Bills of Fare on the
morning of Lord Mayor's Day; and lest we should incur their displeasure, we shall proceed with
our select course: but we are mere disposers.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LITERARY SOUVENIR.

In literary talent, as well as in graphic beauty, this elegant volume stands first; and from
it we have selected the subject of the above engraving, accompanied by the following

ANCIENT SONG OF VICTORY.

BY MRS. HEMANS.

BYRON.

  Lo! they come, they come!
    Garlands for every shrine!
  Strike lyres to greet them home;
    Bring roses, pour ye wine!

  Swell, swell the Dorian flute
    Thro' the blue, triumphal sky!
  Let the Cittern's tone salute
    The Sons of Victory!

  With the offering of bright blood,
    They have ransomed earth and tomb,
  Vineyard, and field, and flood;--
    Lo! they come, they come!

  Mark ye the flashing oars,
    And the spears that light the deep!
  How the festal sunshine pours
    Where the lords of battle sweep!

  Each hath brought back his shield,--
    Maid, greet thy lover home!
  Mother, from that proud field,
    Lo! thy son is come!

  Who murmured of the dead?
    Hush, boding voice! we know
  That many a shining head
    Lies in its glory low.

  Breathe not those names to-day!
    They shall have their praise ere long,
  And a power all hearts to sway
    In ever-burning song.

  But now shed flowers, pour wine,
    To hail the conquerors home!
  Bring wreaths for every shrine--
    Lo! they come, they come!

The original engraving is by Edward Goodall, from a painting by William Linton, Esq. It is
altogether a rich and glorious composition, at this moment too, glowing with more than pictorial
interest; and the carmen triumphale of the poetess is a worthy accompaniment. Among the other
engravings the frontispiece and opposite page of this work are extremely rich and beautiful:
Psyche borne by the Zephyrs to the Island of Pleasure, is full of languishing beauty; Medora,
painted by Pickersgill and engraved by Rolls, is a delightfully placid moonlight scene; the
Declaration, easy and graceful: there are, however, in our opinion, two decided failures in
the volume, which, for the credit of the artists, had better been omitted. Our present notices
of the literary department must be confined to the following selection:

THE CITY OF THE DEMONS.

By William Maginn, Esq.

