There was the savoury odour of the baking cake from the fire, and the fumes of the steeping
tea filled the room, and already gave a sense of refreshing to the weary work-people.

The rags were taken from the windows, and square bits of paper were pinned over the openings;
and the floor was neat and clean, and the beautiful green boughs hung upon the walls, and the
children sat, with clean hands and faces, awaiting the return of father and mother.

They looked so bright and happy that the weary couple quite forgot their fatigue, and chatted
merrily over their pleasant meal, praising the children for their thoughtful work, and saying
they didn't believe there was a more beautiful home in the world than theirs.

Altogether, it was a very happy evening.  Maddie and Lolly made their father and mother sit
down quietly while they cleared off the table, and washed the dishes, and swept the crumbs
away; and then they all had a cozy little time, talking of new hopes and plans.  For the change
was so comfortable that it put life and spirits into every soul; and the father said he would
get some glass and putty and mend the windows; and the mother would make some white curtains,
and the children would get evergreen and form it into wreaths to loop them up.  Oh, it takes
so little to make a cheerful, happy home!  It is only the idle and vicious that need be really
miserable.  If God does not always give us plenty of money, he furnishes us with so many rich
things in this world of his, that we may adorn even a lowly and barren place until it shall
appear richer than the gayest palace.  Maddie and Lolly found this out through Alice; and every
day they hunted the woods for mosses and flowers, and their father made little shelves to put
them on, and formed many a pretty seat of twisted branches of trees; so that by-and-by their
cottage was one of the prettiest places anywhere around, and attracted the notice of everybody
that passed it.

Miss Mason came very often, now that she had found them out; and she not only prevailed on
the parents to send their children to Sunday-school, but they themselves went regularly to
church, and tried to serve the great and holy God who had put it into the hearts of their children
to make their earthly place of abode something akin to the better home.

So soon as they began to feel the presence of the heavenly King, all the despondency and gloom
vanished, and, even though poor and hard-working, they were happy in the possession of such
riches as nothing but the love and favour of our heavenly Father can give.

CHAPTER IX.

It was not very long after the children learned to look away from earth to the blest abode
beyond the skies, when Lolly began to droop and grow weak and listless; and, although her parents
and Maddie thought it was but a trifling illness, she herself felt that her Father was about
to call her home.  She was not afraid to die; and, when she grew so languid that her little
feet lost the power to take her to the Sunday-school, Miss Mason and Alice and the kind minister
came often to talk to her of her approaching joy.

There was one beautiful little story that the minister used to tell her over and over again,
she liked it so much.  I do not know whether he made it, or whether he got it from some book;
but I want to tell it to you, for I like it as well as Lolly did.  It is this:--"There was
a bright, beautiful butterfly that was about to die.  She had laid her eggs on a cabbage-leaf
in the garden; and, as she thought of her children, she said to a caterpillar that was crawling
upon the leaf, 'I am going to die.  I feel my strength fast failing, and I want you to take
care of my little ones.'

"The caterpillar promised, and the butterfly folded her wings and breathed her last.

"Then the caterpillar did not know what to do.  She wanted some instruction with regard to
her charge: so she thought she would ask a lark, that went soaring up into the blue sky.  At
first the lark was silent, and plumed his wings and went up--up--up, as if to gather wisdom
for his answer; and then he came, singing, down and said,--

"'I'll tell you something about your charge; but you won't believe me. These young butterflies
that you look for will become caterpillars.'

"'Poh! poh!' said the old caterpillar.  'I don't believe a word of it.'

"'No; I told you you wouldn't.  And what do you suppose they will live upon?' said the lark.

"'Why, the dew and the sweet honey from the flowers, to be sure,' replied the caterpillar.
'That is what all butterflies live on.'

"'They won't, indeed,' said the lark.  'They will eat cabbage-leaves.' And he went soaring
away again into the clear heavens.

"Presently, back he came and said to the caterpillar,--

"'I'll tell you something stranger still about yourself.  You'll be a beautiful butterfly.'

"The caterpillar laughed at the idea; but, as she turned around and saw the eggs upon the leaf
all hatched into little crawling caterpillars, she was forced to believe what the lark had
said concerning herself; and she went about as happy as could be, telling everybody what a
glorious change would come to her after she had folded herself in her close chrysalis."

The minister told Lolly that this caterpillar in the chrysalis was like us worms of the dust
when lying in the narrow grave enshrouded in our death-robes; and that, like as the caterpillar
bursts his darksome bonds and soars away upon butterfly pinions, so shall we come forth from
the tomb on the resurrection day, and with angel-wings mount upward to the world of light and
peace.  Then he read a few verses to her from that beautiful account of the rising from the
dead, in the fifteenth chapter of the First Epistle to the Corinthians.

Lolly would lie upon her sick-bed and fasten her earnest eyes upon him as he read and as he
spoke so sweetly to her of the other life; and then she would look away through the open window
to the heavens above, and seem to see the face of her Father, who was drawing her slowly to
himself.