    "Elia requests the Editor to inform W.K. that in his article on
    Oxford, under the initials G.D., it is his ambition to make more
    familiar to the public, a character, which, for integrity and
    single-heartedness, he has long been accustomed to rank among the
    best patterns of his species. That, if he has failed in the end
    which he proposed, it was an error of judgment merely. That, if
    in pursuance of his purpose, he has drawn forth some personal
    peculiarities of his friend into notice, it was only from the
    conviction that the public, in living subjects especially, do not
    endure pure panegyric. That the anecdotes, which he produced,
    were no more than he conceived necessary to awaken attention to
    character, and were meant solely to illustrate it. That it is an
    entire mistake to suppose, that he undertook the character to
    set off his own wit or ingenuity. That, he conceives, a candid
    interpreter might find something intended, beyond a heartless
    jest. That G.D., however, having thought it necessary to disclaim
    the anecdote respecting Dr. ----, it becomes him, who never for
    a moment can doubt the veracity of his friend, to account for
    it from an imperfect remembrance of some story he heard long
    ago, and which, happening to tally with his argument, he set
    too hastily to the account of G.D. That, from G.D.'s strong
    affirmations and proofs to the contrary, he is bound to believe
    it belongs to no part of G.D.'s biography. That the transaction,
    supposing it true, must have taken place more than forty years
    ago. That, in consequence, it is not likely to 'meet the eye of
    many who might be justly offended.'

    "Finally, that what he has said of the Booksellers, referred to a
    period of many years, in which he has had the happiness of G.D.'s
    acquaintance; and can have nothing to do with any present or
    prospective engagements of G.D., with those gentlemen, to the
    nature of which he professes himself an entire stranger."

The result of the protest was that Lamb omitted the passage objected to when he collected Elia
in 1823. It might well be restored now; but I have preferred to print everything in the body
of this edition as Lamb arranged it for press.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 14. CHRIST'S HOSPITAL FIVE AND THIRTY YEARS AGO.

London Magazine, November, 1820.

This essay, which is based upon the "Recollections of Christ's Hospital" in Vol. I., is a curious
blend of Lamb's own experiences at school with those of Coleridge. Both boys entered at the
same time--on July 17, 1782: Coleridge was then nearly ten, Lamb was seven and a half. Coleridge
was "clothed" on July 18 and went to Hertford for a while; Lamb was clothed on October 9. Lamb
left the school in November, 1789, Coleridge in September, 1791.

The school which Lamb knew is now no more. The boys are now all in new buildings in the midst
of green fields near Horsham, many miles from Lamb's city and its roar.

Page 14, line 15. The worthy sub-treasurer. Randal Norris (see note to "A Death-Bed"). I have
not been able to discover the cause of his influence.

Page 14, lines 18, 19. Crug ... piggins. Crug is still current slang. In the school museum
one of these piggins is preserved.

Page 14, line 25. Three banyan days. Three vegetarian days.
Coleridge complains (in a letter to Poole) that he was never
sufficiently fed except on Wednesdays. Our appetites were damped, never satisfied; and we had
    no vegetables.

Page 14, line 8 from foot. Caro equina. Horseflesh. Mr. Pearce's chapter on food at the school
in his excellent Annals of Christ's Hospital is very interesting, and records great changes.
Rotten-roasted or rare, i.e., over-roasted or under-done.

Page 15, line 3. The good old relative. Aunt Hetty, or more properly, Sarah Lamb. Compare the
"Lines written on the Day of my Aunt's Funeral," Vol. IV.:--

  I have not forgot
  How thou didst love thy Charles, when he was yet
  A prating schoolboy: I have not forgot
  The busy joy on that important day,
  When, childlike, the poor wanderer was content
  To leave the bosom of parental love,
  His childhood's play-place, and his early home,
  For the rude fosterings of a stranger's hand,
  Hard, uncouth tasks, and schoolboys' scanty fare.
  How did thine eyes peruse him round and round
  And hardly knew him in his yellow coats,
  Red leathern belt, and gown of russet blue.

Page 15, line 13. I was a poor friendless boy. Here Lamb speaks as Coleridge, who came all
the way from Ottery St. Mary, in Devonshire (not Calne, in Wiltshire), and had no London friends.
In John Woodvil Lamb borrowed St. Mary Ottery again (see Vol. IV.). Coleridge has recorded
how unhappy he was in his early days at school.

Page 15, line 12 from foot. Whole-day-leaves. In this connection the following passage from
Trollope's History of Christ's Hospital, 1834, is interesting:--

Those days, on which leave is given to be absent from the Hospital during the whole day, are
called whole-day leaves.... A ticket is a small oval medal attached to the button-hole, without
which, except on leaves, no boy is allowed to pass the gates. Subjoined is a list of the holidays,
which have been hitherto kept at Christ's Hospital; but it is in contemplation to abridge them
materially. Of the policy of such a measure great doubts may fairly be entertained, inasmuch
as the vacations are so short as to give sufficient respite neither to master nor scholar;
and these occasional breaks, in the arduous duties of the former more especially, enable him
to repair the exhausted energies of body and mind by necessary relaxation. If those days, which
are marked with an asterisk, fall on a Sunday, they are kept on the Monday following; and likewise
the state holidays.

HOLIDAYS KEPT AT CHRIST'S HOSPITAL

Jan.  25. St. Paul's conversion.
     *30. King Charles's martyrdom.
Feb.   2. Candlemas Day.
      24. St. Matthias.
          Shrove Tuesday.
          Ash Wednesday.
March 25. Lady Day.
April 23. St. George.
      25. St. Mark.
May    1. St. Philip and St. James.
     *29. Restoration of King
            Charles II.
          Ascension Day.
          Whit Monday.
          Whit Tuesday.
June  11. St. Barnabas.
      24. St. John Baptist.
      29. St. Peter.
July  25. St. James.
          Thursday after St.
            James. (Nurses' Holiday.)
Aug.  24. St. Bartholomew.
Sept. *2. London burnt.
     *21. St. Matthew.
      29. St. Michael.
Oct.  18. St. Luke.
     *23. King Edward VI. born.
      28. St. Simon and St. Jude.
Nov.   1. All Saints.
      *5. Gunpowder Plot.
      *9. Lord Mayor's Day.
     *17. Queen Elizabeth's birthday.
      30. St. Andrew.
Dec.  21. St. Thomas.

Also the birthdays of the King and Queen, and the Prince and Princess of Wales: and the King's
accession, proclamation, and coronation.

In addition to the generous allowance of holidays above given the boys had every alternate
Wednesday for a whole day; eleven days at Easter, four weeks in the summer, and fifteen days
at Christmas. In 1837 the holiday system was remodelled. Compare Lamb's other remarks on his
whole-day rambles in "Recollections of Christ's Hospital" (Vol. I.) and in the essays in the
present volume entitled "Amicus Redivivus" and "Newspapers."

Page 16, line 14. The Tower. Blue-coat boys still have this right of free entrance to the Tower;
but the lions are no more. They were transferred to the Zoological Gardens in 1831.

Page 16, line 16. L.'s governor. Meaning Samuel Salt, M.P.; but it was actually his friend
Mr. Timothy Yeats who signed Lamb's paper. More accurately, Lamb's father lived under Salt's roof.

Page 16, line 7 from foot. H----. According to Lamb's Key this was Hodges; but in the British
Museum copy of Elia, first edition, some one has written Huggins. It is immaterial. Nevis and
St. Kitt's (St. Christopher's) are islands in the British West Indies. Tobin would be James
Webbe Tobin, of Nevis, who died in 1814, the brother of the playwright John Tobin, author of
"The Honeymoon."

Page 17, line 2. A young ass. The general opinion at Christ's Hospital is that Lamb invented
this incident; and yet it has the air of being true.

Page 17, line 18. L.'s admired Perry. John Perry, steward from 1761 to 1785, mentioned in Lamb's
earlier essay.

Page 17, foot. Gags. Still current slang.

Page 17, foot. ----. No name in the Key. The quotation is an adaptation of:--

  It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh
  Which some did die to look on.

  "Antony and Cleopatra," Act I., Scene 4, lines 67-68.

It is perhaps worth remarking that in David Copperfield Dickens has a school incident of a
similar character.

Page 18, line 14 from foot. Mr. Hathaway. Matthias Hathaway, steward from 1790 to 1813.

Page 19, line 8. I was a hypochondriac lad. Here Lamb drops the Coleridge mask and speaks as
himself.

Page 20, line 15. Bamber Gascoigne, and Peter Aubert. Bamber Gascoigne, M.P. (1725-1791), of
Bifrons, in Essex. Of Peter Aubert I can find nothing, except that the assistant secretary
of the East India Company at the time Lamb wrote this essay was Peter Auber, afterwards full
secretary. His name here may be a joke.

Page 20, line 6 from foot. Matthew Field. The Rev. Matthew Feilde, also vicar of Ugley and
curate of Berden. For the Rev. James Boyer see below.

Page 21, line 18. "Peter Wilkins," etc. The Adventures of Peter Wilkins, by Robert Paltock,
1751, is still read; but The Voyages and Adventures of Captain Robert Boyle, 1736, has had
its day. It was a blend of unconvincing travel and some rather free narrative: a piece of sheer
hackwork to meet a certain market. See Lamb's sonnet to Stothard, Vol. IV. The Fortunate Blue-Coat
Boy I have not seen. Canon Ainger describes it as a rather foolish romance, showing how a Blue-coat
boy marries a rich lady of rank. The sub-title is "Memoirs of the Life and Happy Adventures
of Mr. Benjamin Templeman; formerly a Scholar in Christ's Hospital. By an Orphanotropian," 1770.

Page 22, footnote. I have not discovered a copy of Matthew Feilde's play.

Page 23, line 17 from foot. Squinting W----. Not identifiable.

Page 23, line 7 from foot. Coleridge, in his literary life.

In Table Talk Coleridge tells another story of Boyer.

Leigh Hunt in his autobiography also has reminiscences of Boyer and Feilde.

James Boyer or Bowyer was born in 1736, was admitted to the school in 1744, and passed to Balliol.
He resigned his Upper Grammar Mastership in 1799, and probably retired to the rectory of Gainscolne
to which he had been appointed by the school committee six years earlier. They also gave him
£500 and a staff.

Page 23, line 6 from foot. Author of the Country Spectator. Thomas Fanshaw Middleton (1769-1822),
afterwards Bishop of Calcutta, who was at school with Lamb and Coleridge. In the little statuette
group which is called the Coleridge Memorial, subscribed for in 1872, on the centenary of Coleridge's
birth, and held in rotation by the ward in which most prizes have been gained in the year,
Middleton is the tallest figure. It is reproduced in my large edition. The story which it celebrates
is to the effect that Middleton found Coleridge reading Virgil in the playground and asked
him if he were learning a lesson. Coleridge replied that he was "reading for pleasure," an
answer which Middleton reported to Boyer, and which led to Boyer taking special notice of him.
The Country Spectator was a magazine conducted by Middleton in 1792-1793.

Page 23, line 3 from foot. C----. Coleridge again.

Page 24, line 4. Lancelot Pepys Stevens. Rightly spelled Stephens, afterwards Under Grammar
Master at the school.

Page 24, line 6. Dr. T----e. Arthur William Trollope (1768-1827), who succeeded Boyer as Upper
Grammar Master. He resigned in 1826.

Page 24, line 21. Th----. Sir Edward Thornton (1766-1852), diplomatist, who was sent as Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Lower Saxony, to Sweden, to Denmark and other
courts, afterwards becoming minister to Portugal.

Page 24, line 23. Middleton. See note above. The treatise was The Doctrine of the Greek Article
as applied to the Criticism and the Illustration of the New Testament, 1808. It was directed
chiefly against Granville Sharpe. Middleton was the first Bishop of Calcutta.

Page 24, line 8 from foot. Richards. This was George Richards (1767-1837). His poem on "Aboriginal
Britons," which won a prize given in 1791 by Earl Harcourt, is mentioned favourably in Byron's
English Bards and Scotch Reviewers. Richards became vicar of St. Martin's-in-the-Fields and
a Governor of Christ's Hospital. He founded a gold medal for Latin hexameters.

Page 24, foot. S---- ... M----. According to the Key "Scott, died in Bedlam," and "Maunde,
dismiss'd school."

Page 24, foot. "Finding some of Edward's race." From Prior's Carmen Seculare for 1700:--

  Finding some of Stuart's race
  Unhappy, pass their annals by.

Lamb alters Stuart to Edward because Edward VI. founded Christ's Hospital.

Page 25, line 12. C.V. Le G----. Charles Valentine Le Grice (1773-1858), whom we meet also
in the essay on "Grace Before Meat."

Page 25, line 20. Allen. Robert Allen, whom we meet again in the essay on "Newspapers." After
a varied and not fortunate career he died of apoplexy in 1805.

Page 25, line 8 from foot. The junior Le G----. Samuel Le Grice became a soldier and died in
the West Indies.

Page 25, line 8 from foot. F----. Joseph Favell, afterwards Captain, who had a commission from
the Duke of York--as had Sam Le Grice--and was killed in the Peninsula, at Salamanca, 1812.
Lamb states in the essay on "Poor Relations," where Favell figures as "W.," that he met his
death at St. Sebastian. Both Sam Le Grice and Favell were to have accompanied Coleridge and
Southey to the Susquehanna as Pantisocrats.

Page 26, line 1. Fr----. Frederick William Franklin, master of the Hertford branch of the school
from 1801 to 1827. He died in 1836.

Page 26, line 2. Marmaduke T----. Marmaduke Thompson, to whom Lamb dedicated Rosamund Gray in 1798.

Page 26, line 3. Catalogue of Grecians. Lamb was at Christ's Hospital from 1782 to 1789, and
his list is not quite complete. He himself never was a Grecian; that is to say, one of the
picked scholars on the grammar side of the school, two of whom were sent up to Cambridge with
a hospital exhibition every year, on the understanding that they should take orders. Lamb was
one of the Deputy-Grecians from whom the Grecians were chosen, but his stammer standing in
his way and a Church career being out of the question, he never became a full Grecian.

Lamb's memory is preserved at Christ's Hospital by a medal which is given for the best English
essays. It was first struck in 1875, the centenary of his birth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 26. THE TWO RACES OF MEN.

London Magazine, December, 1820.

Probably the germ of the essay is to be found in this passage, as Lamb never forgot his thoughts.

Page 26, line 17 of essay. Brinsley. Richard Brinsley Sheridan, the dramatist and a great spendthrift.
He died in 1816. Lamb knew him slightly.

Page 26, line 9 from foot. Beyond Tooke. That is, beyond the philological theories of The Diversions
of Purley by John Home Tooke (1736-1812).

Page 27, line 22. Ralph Bigod. John Fenwick, an unlucky friend of the Lambs, an anticipatory
Micawber, of whom we know too little, and seem likely to find out little more. Lamb mentions
him again in the essay on "Chimney Sweepers," and in that on "Newspapers," in his capacity
as editor of The Albion, for which Lamb wrote its extinguishing epigram in the summer of 1801.
There are references to the Fenwicks in Mary Lamb's letters to Sarah Stoddart and in Lamb's
letters; but nothing very informing. After financial embarrassments in England they emigrated
to America.

Page 29, line 12. Comberbatch. Coleridge, who had enlisted as a young man in the 15th Light
Dragoons as Silas Titus Comberback.

Page 29, line 16. Bloomsbury. Lamb was then in rooms at 20 Great Russell Street (now Russell
Street), Covent Garden, which is not in Bloomsbury.

Page 29, line 27. Should he go on acting.

Allsop tells us that Lamb once said of Coleridge: "He sets his mark upon whatever he reads;
it is henceforth sacred. His spirit seems to have breathed upon it; and, if not for its author,
yet for his sake, we admire it."

Page 30, line 1. John Buncle. Most of Lamb's books are in America; Lamb's copy of John Buncle,
with an introductory note written in by Coleridge, was sold, with other books from his library,
in New York in 1848. The Life of John Buncle, Esq., a book highly praised by Hazlitt, was by
Thomas Amory (1691?-1788), published, Part I. in 1756 and Part II. in 1766. A condensed reprint
was issued in 1823 entitled The Spirit of Buncle, in which, Mr. W.C. Hazlitt suggests, Lamb
may have had a hand with William Hazlitt.

Page 30, line 19. Spiteful K. James Kenney (1780-1849), the dramatist, then resident at Versailles,
where Lamb and his sister visited him in 1822. He married Louisa Mercier, daughter of Louis
Sebastian Mercier, the French critic, and widow of Lamb's earlier friend, Thomas Holcroft.
One of their two sons was named Charles Lamb Kenney (1821-1881). Lamb recovered Margaret of
Newcastle's Letters (folio, 1664), which is among the books in America, as is also the Fulke
Greville (small folio, 1633).

Page 31, line 4. S.T.C.... annotations. Lamb's copy of Daniel's Poetical Works, two volumes,
1718, and of Browne's Enquiries into Vulgar and Common Errors, folio, 1658, both with marginalia
by himself and Coleridge, are in existence, but I cannot say where: probably in America. Lamb's
copy of Beaumont and Fletcher, with Coleridge's notes (see "Old China"), is, however, safe
in the British Museum. His Fulke Greville, as I have said, is in America, but I fancy it has
nothing of Coleridge in it, nor has his Burton--quarto, 1621--which still exists.

Coleridge's notes in the Beaumont and Fletcher folio are not numerous, but usually ample and
seriously critical. At the foot of a page of the "Siege of Corinth," on which he had written
two notes (one, "O flat! flat! flat! Sole! Flounder! Place! all stinking! stinkingly flat!"),
he added:--

    N.B.--I shall not be long here, Charles!--I gone, you will not
    mind my having spoiled a book in order to leave a Relic.

    S.T.C.

    Octr. 1811.

Underneath the initials S.T.C. are the initials W.W. which suggest that Wordsworth was present.

The Museum also has Lamb's Milton, with annotations by himself and Coleridge.

In the Descriptive Catalogue of the Library of Charles Lamb, privately issued by the New York
Dibdin Club in 1897, is a list of five of Lamb's books now in America containing valuable and
unpublished marginalia by Coleridge: The Life of John Buncle, Donne's Poems ("I shall die soon,
my dear Charles Lamb, and then you will not be vexed that I have scribbled your book. S.T.C.,
2d May, 1811"), Reynolds' God's Revenge against ... Murder, 1651 ("O what a beautiful concordia
discordantium is an unthinking good man's soul!"), The History of Philip de Commines in English,
and Petwin's Letters Concerning the Mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 31. NEW YEAR'S EVE.

London Magazine, January, 1821.

The melancholy pessimism of this essay led to some remonstrance from robuster readers of the
London Magazine. In addition to the letter from "A Father" referred to below, the essay produced,
seven months later, in the August number of the London Magazine, a long poetical "Epistle to
Elia," signed "Olen," in which very simply and touchingly Lamb was reminded that the grave
is not the end, was asked to consider the promises of the Christian faith, and finally was
offered a glimpse of some of the friends he would meet in heaven--among them Ulysses, Shakespeare
and Alice W----n. Taylor, the publisher and editor of the magazine, sent Lamb a copy. He replied,
acknowledging the kindness of the author, and adding:--"Poor Elia ... does not pretend to so
very clear revelations of a future state of being as 'Olen' seems gifted with. He stumbles
about dark mountains at best; but he knows at least how to be thankful for this life, and is
too thankful, indeed, for certain relationships lent him here, not to tremble for a possible
resumption of the gift. He is too apt to express himself lightly, and cannot be sorry for the
present occasion, as it has called forth a reproof so Christian-like."

Lamb thought the poet to be James Montgomery, but it was in reality Charles Abraham Elton.
The poem was reprinted in a volume entitled Boyhood and other Poems, in 1835.

It is conceivable that Lamb was reasoned with privately upon the sentiments expressed in this
essay; and perhaps we may take the following sonnet which he contributed over his own name
to, the London Magazine for April, 1821, as a kind of defiant postscript thereto, a further
challenge to those who reproached him for his remarks concerning death, and who suggested that
he did not really mean them:--

  They talk of time, and of time's galling yoke,
  That like a millstone on man's mind doth press,
  Which only works and business can redress:
  Of divine Leisure such foul lies are spoke,
  Wounding her fair gifts with calumnious stroke.
  But might I, fed with silent meditation,
  Assoiled live from that fiend Occupation--
  Improbus labor, which my spirits hath broke--
  I'd drink of time's rich cup, and never surfeit--
  Fling in more days than went to make the gem
  That crowned the white top of Methusalem--
  Yea on my weak neck take, and never forfeit,
  Like Atlas bearing up the dainty sky,
  The heaven-sweet burthen of eternity.

It was also probably the present essay which led to Lamb's difference with Southey and the
famous letter of remonstrance. Southey accused Elia of wanting "a sounder religious feeling,"
and Lamb suggests in his reply that "New Year's Eve" was the chief offender. See Vol. I. for
Lamb's amplification of one of its passages.

It may be interesting here to quote Coleridge's description of Lamb as "one hovering between
heaven and earth, neither hoping much nor fearing anything."

Page 31, line 10 from foot. Bells. The music of bells seems always to have exerted fascination
over Lamb. See the reference in the story of the "First Going to Church," in Mrs. Leicester's
School, Vol. III.; in his poem "Sabbath Bells," Vol. IV.; and his "John Woodvil," Vol. IV.

Page 31, foot. "I saw the skirts of the departing Year." From Coleridge's "Ode to the Departing
Year," as printed in 1796 and 1797. Lamb was greatly taken by this line. Afterwards Coleridge
altered "skirts" to "train."

Page 32, line 21. Seven.... years. See note to "Dream-Children." Alice W--n is identified with
Ann Simmons, who lived near Blakesware when Lamb was a youth, and of whom he wrote his love
sonnets. According to the Key the name is "feigned."

Page 32, line 25. Old Dorrell. See the poem "Going or Gone," Vol. IV. There seems really to
have been such an enemy of the Lamb fortunes. He was one of the witnesses to the will of John
Lamb, the father--William Dorrell.

Page 33, line 5. Small-pox at five. There is no other evidence than this casual mention that
Lamb ever suffered from this complaint. Possibly he did not. He went to Christ's Hospital at
the age of seven.

Page 33, line 13. From what have I not fallen. Lamb had had this idea many years before.

Page 33, line 27. Phantom cloud of Elia. The speculations in the paragraph that ends with these
words were fantastical at any rate to one reader, who, under the signature "A Father," contributed
to the March number of the London Magazine a eulogy of paternity, in which Elia was reasoned
with and rebuked. "Ah! Elia! hadst thou possessed 'offspring of thine own to dally with,' thou
wouldst never have made the melancholy avowal that thou hast 'almost ceased to hope!'" Lamb
did not reply.

Page 33, line 7 from foot. Not childhood alone ... The passage between these words and "freezing
days of December" was taken by Charles Lloyd, Lamb's early friend, as the motto of a poem,
in his Poems, 1823, entitled "Stanzas on the Difficulty with which, in Youth, we Bring Home
to our Habitual Consciousness the Idea of Death."

Page 34, line 15 from foot. Midnight darlings. Leigh Hunt records, in his essay "My Books,"
that he once saw Lamb kiss an old folio--Chapman's Homer.

Page 34, line 8 from foot. "Sweet assurance of a look." A favourite quotation of Lamb's (here
adapted) from Matthew Roydon's elegy on Sir Philip Sidney:--

  A sweet attractive kind of grace,
  A full assurance given by looks.

A portion of the poem is quoted in the Elia essay on "Some Sonnets of Sir Philip Sidney."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 37. MRS. BATTLE'S OPINIONS ON WHIST.

London Magazine, February, 1821.

Mrs. Battle was probably, in real life, to a large extent Sarah Burney, the wife of Rear-Admiral
James Burney, Lamb's friend, and the centre of the whist-playing set to which he belonged.
The theory that Lamb's grandmother, Mrs. Field, was the original Mrs. Battle, does not, I think,
commend itself, although that lady may have lent a trait or two. It has possibly arisen from
the relation of the passage in the essay on Blakesware, where Mrs. Battle is said to have died
in the haunted room, to that in "Dream-Children," where Lamb says that Mrs. Field occupied
this room.

The fact that Mrs. Battle and Mrs. Burney were both Sarahs is a small piece of evidence towards
their fusion, but there is something more conclusive in the correspondence. Writing in March,
1830, concerning the old whist days, to William Ayrton, one of the old whist-playing company,
and the neighbour of the Burneys in Little James Street, Pimlico, Lamb makes use of an elision
which, I think, may be taken as more than support of the theory that Mrs. Battle and Mrs. Burney
were largely the same--practically proof. "Your letter, which was only not so pleasant as your
appearance would have been, has revived some old images; Phillips (not the Colonel), with his
few hairs bristling up at the charge of a revoke, which he declares impossible; the old Captain's
significant nod over the right shoulder (was it not?); Mrs. B----'s determined questioning
of the score, after the game was absolutely gone to the d----l." Lamb, I think, would have
written out Mrs. Burney in full had he not wished to suggest Mrs. Battle too.

This conjecture is borne out by the testimony of the late Mrs. Lefroy, in her youth a friend
of the Burneys and the Lambs, who told Canon Ainger that though Mrs. Battle had many differing
points she was undoubtedly Mrs. Burney. But of course there are the usual cross-trails--the
reference to the pictures at Sandham; to Walter Plumer; to the legacy to Lamb; and so forth.
Perhaps among the Blakesware portraits was one which Lamb chose as Mrs. Battle's presentment;
perhaps Mrs. Field had told him of an ancient dame who had certain of Mrs. Battle's characteristics,
and he superimposed Mrs. Burney upon this foundation.

For further particulars concerning the Burney whist parties see the notes to the "Letter to
Southey," Vol. I.

Admiral Burney (1750-1821), a son of Dr. Burney, the historian of music, and friend of Johnson
and Reynolds, was the brother of Fanny Burney, afterwards Madame d'Arblay. See also "The Wedding,"
page 275 of this volume, for another glimpse of Lamb's old friend. Admiral Burney wrote An
Essay on the Game of Whist, which was published in 1821. As he lived until November, 1821,
he probably read the present essay. Writing to Wordsworth, March 20, 1822, Lamb says: "There's
Capt. Burney gone!--what fun has whist now; what matters it what you lead, if you can no longer
fancy him looking over you?"

Page 37, line 1 of essay. "A clean hearth." To this, in the London Magazine, Lamb put the footnote:--

"This was before the introduction of rugs, reader. You must remember the intolerable crash
of the unswept cinder, betwixt your foot and the marble."

Page 37, line 8 of essay. Win one game, and lose another. To this, in the London Magazine,
Lamb put the note:--

    "As if a sportsman should tell you he liked to kill a fox one day,
    and lose him the next."

Page 38, line 26. Mr. Bowles. The Rev. William Lisle Bowles (1762-1850), whose sonnets had
so influenced Coleridge's early poetical career. His edition of Pope was published in 1806.
I have tried in vain to discover if Mr. Bowles' MS. and notes for this edition are still in
existence. If so, they might contain Lamb's contribution. But it is rather more likely, I fear,
that Lamb invented the story. The game of ombre is in Canto III. of The Rape of the Lock.

The only writing on cards which we know Lamb to have done, apart from this essay, is the elementary
rules of whist which he made out for Mrs. Badams quite late in his life as a kind of introduction
to the reading of Admiral Burney's treatise. This letter is in America and has never been printed
except privately; nor, if its owner can help it, will it.

Page 40, line 26. Old Walter Plumer. See the essay on "The South-Sea House."

Page 42, line 18 from foot. Bad passions. Here came in the London Magazine, in parenthesis,
"(dropping for a while the speaking mask of old Sarah Battle)."

Page 43, line 2. Bridget Elia. This is Lamb's first reference in the essays to Mary Lamb under
this name. See "Mackery End" and "Old China."

A little essay on card playing in the Every-Day Book, the authorship of which is unknown, but
which may be Hone's, ends with the following pleasant passage:--

    Cousin Bridget and the gentle Elia seem beings of that age wherein
    lived Pamela, whom, with "old Sarah Battle," we may imagine
    entering their room, and sitting down with them to a square
    game. Yet Bridget and Elia live in our own times: she, full of
    kindness to all, and of soothings to Elia especially;--he, no less
    kind and consoling to Bridget, in all simplicity holding converse
    with the world, and, ever and anon, giving us scenes that Metzu
    and De Foe would admire, and portraits that Deuner and Hogarth
    would rise from their graves to paint.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 43. A CHAPTER ON EARS.

London Magazine, March, 1821.

Lamb was not so utterly without ear as he states. Crabb Robinson in his diary records more
than once that Lamb hummed tunes, and Barron Field, in the memoir of Lamb contributed by him
to the Annual Biography and Obituary for 1836, mentions his love for certain beautiful airs,
among them Kent's "O that I had wings like a dove" (mentioned in this essay), and Handel's
"From mighty kings." Lamb says that it was Braham who awakened a love of music in him. Compare
Lamb's lines to Clara Novello, Vol. IV., page 101, and also Mary Lamb's postscript to his "Free
Thoughts on Eminent Composers," same volume.

Page 43, foot. I was never ... in the pillory. This sentence led to an amusing article in the
London Magazine for the next month, April, 1821, entitled "The Confessions of H.F.V.H. Delamore,
Esq.," unmistakably, I think, by Lamb, which will be found in Vol. I. of this edition, wherein
Lamb confesses to a brief sojourn in the stocks at Barnet for brawling on Sunday, an incident
for the broad truth of which we have the testimony of his friend Brook Pulham.

Page 44, lines 6 and 7. "Water parted from the sea," "In Infancy." Songs by Arne in "Artaxerxes,"
Lamb's "First Play" (see page 113).

Page 44, line 11. Mrs. S----. The Key gives "Mrs. Spinkes." We meet a Will Weatherall in "Distant
Correspondents," page 120; but I have not been able to discover more concerning either.

Page 44, line 17. Alice W----n. See note to "Dream Children."

Page 44, line 26. My friend A. Probably William Ayrton (1777-1818), the musical critic, one
of the Burneys' whist-playing set, and a friend and correspondent of Lamb's. See the musical
rhyming letter to him from Lamb, May 17, 1817.

Page 47, line 5. My friend, Nov----. Vincent Novello (1781-1861), the organist, the father
of Mrs. Cowden Clarke, and a great friend of Lamb.

Page 47, footnote. Another friend of Vincent Novello's uses the same couplet (from Watt's Divine
Songs for Children, Song XXVIII., "For the Lord's Day, Evening") in the description of glees
by the old cricketers at the Bat and Ball on Broad Halfpenny Down, near Hambledon--I refer
to John Nyren, author of The Young Cricketer's Tutor, 1833. There is no evidence that Lamb
and Nyren ever met, but one feels that they ought to have done so, in Novello's hospitable rooms.

Page 48, line 3. Lutheran beer. Edmund Ollier, the son of Charles Ollier, the publisher of
Lamb's Works, 1818, in his reminiscences of Lamb, prefixed to one edition of Elia, tells this
story: "Once at a musical party at Leigh Hunt's, being oppressed with what to him was nothing
but a prolonged noise ... he said--'If one only had a pot of porter, one might get through
this.' It was procured for him and he weathered the Mozartian storm."

In the London Magazine this essay had the following postscript:--

    "P.S.--A writer, whose real name, it seems, is Boldero, but who
    has been entertaining the town for the last twelve months, with
    some very pleasant lucubrations, under the assumed signature of
    Leigh Hunt[1], in his Indicator, of the 31st January last, has
    thought fit to insinuate, that I Elia do not write the little
    sketches which bear my signature, in this Magazine; but that the
    true author of them is a Mr. L----b. Observe the critical period
    at which he has chosen to impute the calumny!--on the very
    eve of the publication of our last number--affording no scope
    for explanation for a full month--during which time, I must
    needs lie writhing and tossing, under the cruel imputation of
    nonentity.--Good heavens! that a plain man must not be allowed
    to be--

    "They call this an age of personality: but surely this spirit of
    anti-personality (if I may so express it) is something worse.

    "Take away my moral reputation: I may live to discredit that
    calumny.

    "Injure my literary fame,--I may write that up again--

    "But when a gentleman is robbed of his identity, where is he?

    "Other murderers stab but at our existence, a frail and perishing
    trifle at the best. But here is an assassin who aims at our very
    essence; who not only forbids us to be any longer, but to have
    been at all. Let our ancestors look to it--

    "Is the parish register nothing? Is the house in Princes-street,
    Cavendish-square, where we saw the light six-and-forty years
    ago, nothing? Were our progenitors from stately Genoa, where we
    flourished four centuries back, before the barbarous name of
    Boldero[2] was known to a European mouth, nothing? Was the goodly
    scion of our name, transplanted into England, in the reign of the
    seventh Henry, nothing? Are the archives of the steel yard, in
    succeeding reigns (if haply they survive the fury of our envious
    enemies) showing that we flourished in prime repute, as merchants,
    down to the period of the commonwealth, nothing?

      "Why then the world, and all that's in't is nothing--
      The covering sky is nothing, Bohemia is nothing.--

    "I am ashamed that this trifling writer should have power to move
    me so."

Leigh Hunt, in The Indicator, January 31 and February 7, 1821, had reprinted from The Examiner
a review of Lamb's Works, with a few prefatory remarks in which it was stated: "We believe
we are taking no greater liberty with him [Charles Lamb] than our motives will warrant, when
we add that he sometimes writes in the London Magazine under the signature of Elia."

In The Indicator of March 7, 1821, Leigh Hunt replied to Elia. Leigh Hunt was no match for
Lamb in this kind of raillery, and the first portion of the reply is rather cumbersome. At
the end, however, he says: "There was, by the bye, a family of the name of Elia who came from
Italy,--Jews; which may account for this boast about Genoa. See also in his last article in
the London Magazine [the essay on "Ears"] some remarkable fancies of conscience in reference
to the Papal religion. They further corroborate what we have heard; viz. that the family were
obliged to fly from Genoa for saying that the Pope was the author of Rabelais; and that Elia
is not an anagram, as some have thought it, but the Judaico-Christian name of the writer before
us, whose surname, we find, is not Lamb, but Lomb;--Elia Lomb! What a name! He told a friend
of ours so in company, and would have palmed himself upon him for a Scotchman, but that his
countenance betrayed him."

It is amusing to note that Maginn, writing the text to accompany the Maclise portrait of Lamb
in Fraser's Magazine in 1835, gravely states that Lamb's name was really Lomb, and that he
was of Jewish extraction.

The subject of Lamb's birth reopened a little while later. In the "Lion's Head," which was
the title of the pages given to correspondence in the London Magazine, in the number for November,
1821, was the following short article from Lamb's pen:--

    "ELIA TO HIS CORRESPONDENTS.--A Correspondent, who writes himself
    Peter Ball, or Bell,--for his hand-writing is as ragged as his
    manners--admonishes me of the old saying, that some people (under
    a courteous periphrasis I slur his less ceremonious epithet) had
    need have good memories. In my 'Old Benchers of the Inner Temple,'
    I have delivered myself, and truly, a Templar born. Bell clamours
    upon this, and thinketh that he hath caught a fox. It seems that
    in a former paper, retorting upon a weekly scribbler who had
    called my good identity in question, (see P.S. to my 'Chapter on
    Ears,') I profess myself a native of some spot near Cavendish
    Square, deducing my remoter origin from Italy. But who does not
    see, except this tinkling cymbal, that in that idle fiction
    of Genoese ancestry I was answering a fool according to his
    folly--that Elia there expresseth himself ironically, as to an
    approved slanderer, who hath no right to the truth, and can be
    no fit recipient of it? Such a one it is usual to leave to his
    delusions; or, leading him from error still to contradictory
    error, to plunge him (as we say) deeper in the mire, and give
    him line till he suspend himself. No understanding reader could
    be imposed upon by such obvious rhodomontade to suspect me
    for an alien, or believe me other than English.--To a second
    Correspondent, who signs himself 'a Wiltshire man,' and claims me
    for a countryman upon the strength of an equivocal phrase in my
    'Christ's Hospital,' a more mannerly reply is due. Passing over
    the Genoese fable, which Bell makes such a ring about, he nicely
    detects a more subtle discrepancy, which Bell was too obtuse to
    strike upon. Referring to the passage (in page 484 of our second
    volume[3]), I must confess, that the term 'native town,' applied
    to Calne, primâ facie seems to bear out the construction which
    my friendly Correspondent is willing to put upon it. The context
    too, I am afraid, a little favours it. But where the words of
    an author, taken literally, compared with some other passage
    in his writings, admitted to be authentic, involve a palpable
    contradiction, it hath been the custom of the ingenuous
    commentator to smooth the difficulty by the supposition, that
    in the one case an allegorical or tropical sense was chiefly
    intended. So by the word 'native,' I may be supposed to mean a
    town where I might have been born; or where it might be desirable
    that I should have been born, as being situate in wholesome air,
    upon a dry chalky soil, in which I delight; or a town, with the
    inhabitants of which I passed some weeks, a summer or two ago,
    so agreeably, that they and it became in a manner native to me.
    Without some such latitude of interpretation in the present case,
    I see not how we can avoid falling into a gross error in physics,
    as to conceive that a gentleman may be born in two places, from
    which all modern and ancient testimony is alike abhorrent. Bacchus
    cometh the nearest to it, whom I remember Ovid to have honoured
    with the epithet 'Twice born.'[4] But not to mention that he is so
    called (we conceive) in reference to the places whence rather
    than the places where he was delivered,--for by either birth
    he may probably be challenged for a Theban--in a strict way of
    speaking, he was a filius femoris by no means in the same sense
    as he had been before a filius alvi, for that latter was but
    a secondary and tralatitious way of being born, and he but a
    denizen of the second house of his geniture. Thus much by way of
    explanation was thought due to the courteous 'Wiltshire man.'--To
    'Indagator,' 'Investigator,' 'Incertus,' and the rest of the pack,
    that are so importunate about the true localities of his birth--as
    if, forsooth, Elia were presently about to be passed to his
    parish--to all such churchwarden critics he answereth, that, any
    explanation here given notwithstanding, he hath not so fixed his
    nativity (like a rusty vane) to one dull spot, but that, if he
    seeth occasion, or the argument shall demand it, he will be born
    again, in future papers, in whatever place, and at whatever
    period, shall seem good unto him.

    "Modò me Thebis--modò Athenis.

    "ELIA."

[Footnote 1: "Clearly a fictitious appellation; for if we admit the latter of these names to
be in a manner English, what is Leigh? Christian nomenclature knows no such."]

[Footnote 2: "It is clearly of transatlantic origin."]

[Footnote 3: See page 15 of this volume.]

[Footnote 4:
  "Imperfectus adhuc infans genetricis ab alvo
  Eripitur, patrioque tener (si credere dignum est)
  Insuitur femori--
  Tutaque bis geniti sunt incunabula Bacchi.

  "Metamorph. lib. iii., 310."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 48. ALL FOOLS' DAY.

London Magazine, April, 1821.

Page 49, line 1. Empedocles. Lamb appended this footnote in the London Magazine:--

  He who, to be deem'd
  A god, leap'd fondly into Etna's flames.

Paradise Lost, III., lines 470-471 [should be 469-470].

Page 49, line 5. Cleombrotus. Lamb's London Magazine footnote:--

  He who, to enjoy
  Plato's Elysium, leap'd into the sea.

Paradise Lost, III., lines 471-472.

Page 49, line 8. Plasterers at Babel. Lamb's London Magazine note:--

  The builders next of Babel on the plain
  Of Sennaar.

Paradise Lost, III., lines 466-467.

Page 49, line 10. My right hand. Lamb, it is probably unnecessary to remind the reader, stammered
too.

Page 49, line 13 from foot. Duns, Duns Scotus (1265?-1308?), metaphysician, author of De modis
significandi sive Grammatica Speculativa and other philosophic works. Known as Doctor Subtilis.
There was nothing of Duns in the London Magazine; the sentence ran: "Mr. Hazlitt, I cannot
indulge you in your definitions." This was at a time when Lamb and Hazlitt were not on good terms.

Page 49, last line. Honest R----. Lamb's Key gives "Ramsay, London Library, Ludgate Street;
now extinct." I have tried in vain to find out more about Ramsay. The London Library was established
at 5 Ludgate Street in 1785. Later, the books were lodged at Charles Taylor's house in Hatton
Garden, and were finally removed to the present London Institute in Finsbury Circus.

Page 50, line 6. Good Granville S----. Lamb's Key gives Granville Sharp. This was the eccentric
Granville Sharp, the Quaker abolitionist (1735-1813).

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 51. A QUAKER'S MEETING.

London Magazine, April, 1821.

Lamb's connection with Quakers was somewhat intimate throughout his life. In early days he
was friendly with the Birmingham Lloyds--Charles, Robert and Priscilla, of the younger generation,
and their father, Charles Lloyd, the banker and translator of Horace and Homer (see Charles
Lamb and the Lloyds, 1898); and later with Bernard Barton, the Quaker poet of Woodbridge. Also
he had loved from afar Hester Savory, the subject of his poem "Hester" (see Vol. IV.).

Both Forster and Hood tell us that Lamb in outward appearance resembled a Quaker.

Page 52, line 13. The uncommunicating muteness of fishes. Lamb had in mind this thought on
the silence of fishes when he was at work on John Woodvil. Simon remarks, in the exquisite
passage (Vol. IV.) in reply to the question, "What is it you love?"

       The fish in th' other element
  That knows no touch of eloquence.

Page 53, second quotation. "How reverend ..." An adaptation of Congreve's description of York
Minster in "The Mourning Bride" (Mary Lamb's "first play"), Act I., Scene 1:--

  How reverend is the face of this tall pile ...
  Looking tranquillity!

Page 53, middle. Fox and Dewesbury. George Fox (1624-1691) founded the Society of Friends.
William Dewesbury was one of Fox's first colleagues, and a famous preacher. William Penn (1644-1718),
the founder of Pennsylvania, was the most illustrious of the early converts to Quakerism. Lamb
refers to him again, before his judges, in the essay on "Imperfect Sympathies," page 73. George
Fox's Journal was lent to Lamb by a friend of Bernard Barton's in 1823. On returning it, Lamb
remarked (February 17, 1823):--"I have quoted G.F. in my 'Quaker's Meeting' as having said
he was 'lifted up in spirit' (which I felt at the time to be not a Quaker phrase),' and the
Judge and Jury were as dead men under his feet.' I find no such words in his Journal, and I
did not get them from Sewell, and the latter sentence I am sure I did not mean to invent. I
must have put some other Quaker's words into his mouth."

Sewel was a Dutchman--William Sewel (1654-1720). James Naylor (1617-1660) was one of the early
Quaker martyrs--"my favourite" Lamb calls him in a letter. John Woolman (1720-1772) was an
American Friend. Modern editions are obtainable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 56. THE OLD AND THE NEW SCHOOLMASTER.

London Magazine, May, 1821.

Page 56, line 9. Ortelius ... Arrowsmith. Abraham Ortellius (1527-1598), the Dutch geographer
and the author of Theatrum Orbis Terræ, 1570. Aaron Arrowsmith (1750-1823) was a well-known
cartographer at the beginning of the nineteenth century. Lamb would perhaps have known something
of his Atlas of Southern India, a very useful work at the East India House.

Page 56, line 13. A very dear friend. Barren Field (see the essay on "Distant Correspondents").

Page 56, line 10 from foot. My friend M. Thomas Manning (1772-1840), the mathematician and
traveller, and Lamb's correspondent.

Page 56, last line. "On Devon's leafy shores." From Wordsworth's Excursion, III.

Page 57, line 16. Daily jaunts. Though Lamb was then (1821) living at 20 Great Russell Street,
Covent Garden, he rented rooms at 14 Kingsland Row, Dalston, in which to take holidays and
do his literary work undisturbed. At that time Dalston, which adjoins Shackleton, was the country
and Kingsland Green an open space opposite Lamb's lodging.

Page 58, line 23. The North Pole Expedition. Sir John Ross made an expedition in 1818, and
Sir William Edward Parry in 1819, and again in 1821-1823 with Lyon. The panorama was possibly
at Burford's Panorama in the Strand, afterwards moved to Leicester Square.

Page 60, line 17. Tractate on Education. Milton's Tractate on Education, addressed to his friend,
Samuel Hartlib, was published in 1644. The quotation above is from that work. This paragraph
of Lamb's essay was afterwards humorously expanded in his "Letter to an Old Gentleman whose
Education has been Neglected" (see Vol. I.).

Page 60, last line. Mr. Bartley's Orrery. George Bartley (1782?-1858), the comedian, lectured
on astronomy and poetry at the Lyceum during Lent at this time. An orrery is a working model
of the solar system. The Panopticon was, I assume, a forerunner of the famous Panopticon in
Leicester Square.

Page 61, line 8. "Plaything for an hour." A quotation, from Charles and Mary Lamb's Poetry
for Children--"Parental Recollections":--

  A child's a plaything for an hour.

Page 63, end of essay. "Can I reproach her for it." After these words, in the London Magazine,
came:--

    "These kind of complaints are not often drawn from me. I am aware
    that I am a fortunate, I mean a prosperous man. My feelings
    prevent me from transcribing any further."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 63. VALENTINE'S DAY.

This essay first appeared in The Examiner, February 14 and 15, 1819, and again in The Indicator,
February 14, 1821. Signed ***

Page 64, line 18. Twopenny postman. Hone computed, in his Every-Day Book, Vol. I., 1825, that
"two hundred thousand letters beyond the usual daily average annually pass through the two-penny
post-office in London on Valentine's Day." The Bishop's vogue is now (1911) almost over.

Page 65, line 15 from foot. E.B. Lamb's Key gives "Edward Burney, half brother of Miss Burney."
This was Edward Francis Burney (1760-1848), who illustrated many old authors, among them Richardson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 66. IMPERFECT SYMPATHIES.

London Magazine, August, 1821, where the title ran: "Jews, Quakers, Scotchmen, and other Imperfect
Sympathies."

Page 69, line 18 from foot. A print ... after Leonardo. The Virgin of the Rocks. See Vol. IV.
for Lamb's and his sister's verses on this picture. Crabb Robinson's MS. diary tells us that
the Scotchman was one Smith, a friend of Godwin. His exact reply to Lamb's remark about "my
beauty" was: "Why, sir, from all I have heard of you, as well as from what I have myself seen,
I certainly entertain a very high opinion of your abilities, but I confess that I have not
formed any opinion concerning your personal pretensions."

Page 70, line 10. The poetry of Burns. "Burns was the god of my idolatry," Lamb wrote to Coleridge
in 1796. Coleridge's lines on Burns, "To a Friend who had declared his intention of writing
no more poetry," were addressed to Lamb. Barry Cornwall records seeing Lamb kiss his copy of
the poet.

Page 70, line 17. You can admire him. In the London Magazine Lamb added:--

    "I have a great mind to give up Burns. There is certainly
    a bragging spirit of generosity, a swaggering assertion of
    independence, and all that, in his writings."

Page 70, line 18. Smollett. Tobias George Smollett (1721-1771), the novelist, came of a Dumbartonshire
family. Rory was Roderick Random's schoolboy name. His companion was Strap. See Roderick Random,
Chapter XIII., for the passage in question. Smollett continued the History of England of David
Hume (1711-1776), also a Scotchman, and one of the authors whom Lamb could not read (see "Detached
Thoughts on Books and Reading," page 196).

Lamb's criticism of Scotchmen did not pass without comment. The pleasantest remark made upon
it was that of Christopher North (John Wilson) some dozen years later (after he had met Lamb),
in a Blackwood paper entitled "Twaddle on Tweedside"

Coleridge was much pleased by this little reference to his friend. He described it as "very
sweet indeed" (see his Table Talk, May 14, 1833).

Page 70, line 14 from foot. Hugh of Lincoln. Hugh was a small Lincoln boy who, tradition states,
was tortured to death by the Jews. His dead body being touched by a blind woman, she received
sight.

Many years earlier Lamb had spoken of the Jew in English society with equal frankness (see
his note to the "Jew of Malta" in the Dramatic Specimens).

Page 71, line 18. B----. John Braham, née Abraham (1774?-1856), the great tenor. In this essay
Lamb refers to Braham's singing in Handel's oratorio "Israel in Egypt." Concerning Braham's
abandonment of the Jewish faith see Lamb's sarcastic essay "The Religion of Actors," Vol. I.,
page 338.

Page 73, line 17 from foot. I was travelling. Lamb did not really take part in this story.
It was told him by Sir Anthony Carlisle (1768-1840), the surgeon, as he confessed to his Quaker
friend, Bernard Barton (March 11, 1823), who seemed to miss its point. Lamb described Carlisle
as "the best story-teller I ever heard."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 74. WITCHES, AND OTHER NIGHT-FEARS.

London Magazine, October, 1821.

Compare with this essay Maria Howe's story of "The Witch Aunt," in Mrs. Leicester's School
(see Vol. III.), which Lamb had written thirteen years earlier.

Page 75, line 12 from foot. History of the Bible, by Stackhouse. Thomas Stackhouse (1677-1752)
was rector of Boldon, in Durham; his New History of the Holy Bible from the Beginning of the
World to the Establishment of Christianity--the work in question--was published in 1737.

Page 75, line 6 from foot. The Witch raising up Samuel. This paragraph was the third place
in which Lamb recorded his terror of this picture of the Witch of Endor in Stackhouse's Bible,
but the first occasion in which he took it to himself. In one draft of John Woodvil (see Vol.

Then again, in Mrs. Leicester's School, in the story of Maria Howe, called "The Witch Aunt,"
one of the three stories in that book which Lamb wrote, Stackhouse's Bible is found once more.
In my large edition I give a reproduction of the terrible picture. Page 77, foot. Dear little
T.H. This was the unlucky passage which gave Southey his chief text in his criticism of Elia
as a book wanting "a sounder religious feeling," and which led to Lamb's expostulatory "Letter"
(see Vol. I.). Southey commented thus:--

    This poor child, instead of being trained up in the way in which
    he should go, had been bred in the ways of modern philosophy; he
    had systematically been prevented from knowing anything of that
    Saviour who said, "Suffer little children to come unto Me, and
    forbid them not; for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven;" care had
    been taken that he should not pray to God, nor lie down at night
    in reliance upon His good Providence!

T.H. was Thornton Hunt, Leigh Hunt's eldest son and Lamb's "favourite child" (see verses to
him in Vol. IV.).

Page 79, line 18 from foot. Barry Cornwall. Bryan Waller Procter (1787-1874), Lamb's friend.
The reference is to "A Dream," a poem in Barry Cornwall's Dramatic Scenes, 1819, which Lamb
greatly admired. See his sonnet to the poet in Vol. IV., where it is mentioned again.

Page 80, last paragraph of essay. In the original MS. of this essay (now in the Dyce and Forster
collection at South Kensington) the last paragraph ran thus:--

    "When I awoke I came to a determination to write prose all the
    rest of my life; and with submission to some of our young writers,
    who are yet diffident of their powers, and balancing perhaps
    between verse and prose, they might not do unwisely to decide the
    preference by the texture of their natural dreams. If these are
    prosaic, they may depend upon it they have not much to expect in
    a creative way from their artificial ones. What dreams must not
    Spenser have had!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 80. MY RELATIONS.

London Magazine, June, 1821.

Page 80, beginning. At that point of life. Lamb was forty-six on February 10, 1821.

Page 80, line 12 of essay. I had an aunt. Aunt Hetty, who died in 1797 (see the essay on "Christ's
Hospital").

Page 81, line 6. The chapel in Essex-street. The headquarters of "that heresy," Unitarianism.
Lamb was at first a Unitarian, but afterwards dropped away from all sects.

Page 81, line 23. Brother, or sister, I never had any--to know them. Lamb is writing strictly
as the imagined Elia, Elia being Lamb in mind rather than Lamb in fact. It amused him to present
his brother John and his sister Mary as his cousins James and Bridget Elia. We have here an
excellent example of his whimsical blending of truth and invention: brothers and sisters he
denies, yet admits one sister, Elizabeth, who died in both their infancies. Lamb had in reality
two sisters named Elizabeth, the former of whom he never knew. She was born in 1762. The second
Elizabeth, his parents' fifth child, was born in 1768, seven years before Charles. Altogether
the Lambs had seven children, of whom only John (born 1763), Mary Anne (born 1764) and Charles
(born 1775) grew up. Again Lamb confesses to several cousins in Hertfordshire, and to two others.
The two others were fictitious, but it was true that he had Hertfordshire relations (see the
essay "Mackery End, in Hertfordshire").

John Lamb's character is perhaps sufficiently described in this essay and in "Dream-Children."
He was a well-to-do official in the South-Sea House, succeeding John Tipp as accountant. Crabb
Robinson found him too bluff and noisy to be bearable; and he once knocked Hazlitt down in
a dispute about painting. He died on October 26, 1821, to his brother's great grief, leaving
Charles everything. He married late in life a Mrs. Dowden. Probably she had her own money and
needed none of her second husband's. Hence the peculiarity of the will. Mrs. John Lamb died
in 1826.

The poem "The Beggar-Man," in Poetry for Children, 1809 (see Vol. III.), was also from John
Lamb's pen.

Page 85, asterisks. Society for the Relief of--Distrest Sailors, says Lamb's Key.

Page 86, last line of essay. "Through the green plains of pleasant Hertfordshire." This line
occurs in a sonnet of Lamb's written many years before the essay (see Vol. IV.). Probably,
however, Lamb did not invent it, for (the late W.J. Craig pointed out) in Leland's Itinerary,
which Lamb must have known, if only on account of the antiquary's remarks on Hertfordshire,
is quoted a poem by William Vallans (fl. 1578-1590), "The Tale of the Two Swans," containing
the line--

  The fruitful fields of pleasant Hertfordshire--

which one can easily understand would have lingered in Lamb's mind very graciously.

In the London Magazine the essay ended with the words, "Till then, Farewell."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 86. MACKERY END, IN HERTFORDSHIRE.

London Magazine, July, 1821. Reprinted in Elia, 1823, as written, save for the omission of
italics from many passages.

Bridget Elia, who is met also in "Mrs. Battle," in "My Relations," and in "Old China," was,
of course, Mary Lamb.

Page 86, line 11 from foot. She must have a story. Thomas Westwood, in his reminiscences of
the Lambs in later years, printed in Notes and Queries, speaks of Mary Lamb's passion for novel-reading
in the Enfield days, when he was a boy.

Page 87, line 6. Margaret Newcastle. Lamb's devotion to this lady is expressed again in the
essay on "The Two Races of Men," in the essay on Beggars, and in "Detached Thoughts on Books
and Reading."

Page 87, line 8. Free-thinkers ... William Godwin, perhaps alone among Lamb's friends, quite
answers to the description of leader of novel philosophies and systems; but there had been
also Thomas Holcroft and John Thelwall among the Lambs' acquaintance. And Hazlitt and Leigh
Hunt would come within this description.

Page 87, foot. Good old English reading. The reference is to Samuel Salt's library in the Temple
(see note to "The Old Benchers of the Inner Temple").

Page 88, line 14. Mackery End. The farmhouse still stands, although new front rooms have been
added. At the end of the present hall, one passes through what was in Lamb's time the front
door, and thereafter the house is exactly as it used to be save that its south windows have
been filled in. By kind invitation of Mr. Dolphin Smith, the farmer, who had been there over
forty years, I spent in 1902 some time in the same parlour in which the Lambs had been entertained.
Harpenden, on the north-west, has grown immensely since Lamb's day, and the houses at the Folly,
between Wheathampstead and the Cherry Trees, are new; but Mackery End, or Mackrye End as the
farmer's waggons have it, remains unencroached upon. Near by is the fine old mansion which
is Mackery End house proper; Lamb's Mackery End was the farm.

Lamb's first visit there must have been when he was a very little boy--somewhere about 1780.
Probably we may see recollections of it in Mary Lamb's story "The Farmhouse" in Mrs. Leicester's
School (see Vol. III. of this edition).

Page 88, line 18. A great-aunt. Mary Field, Lamb's grandmother, was Mary Bruton, whose sister
married, as he says, a Gladman, and was the great-aunt mentioned. The present occupier of the
farm is neither Gladman nor Bruton; but both names are still to be found in the county. A Miss
Sarah Bruton, a direct descendant of Lamb's great-aunt, was living at Wheathampstead in 1902.
She had on her walls two charming oval portraits of ancestresses, possibly--for she was uncertain
as to their identity--two of the handsome sisters whom Lamb extols.

"This is a fragment of a blank verse poem which I once meditated, but got no further."

Page 89, verse. "But thou, that didst appear so fair ..." From Wordsworth's "Yarrow Visited,"
Stanza 6. Writing to Wordsworth in 1815, Lamb said of this stanza that he thought "no lovelier"
could be found in "the wide world of poetry." From a letter to Taylor, of the London Magazine,
belonging to the summer of 1821, we gather that the proof-reader had altered the last word
of the third line to "air" to make it rhyme to "fair." Lamb says: "Day is the right reading,
and I implore you to restore it."

Page 90, line 4. B.F. Barron Field (see note to "Distant Correspondents"), then living in Sydney,
where he composed, and had printed for private circulation in 1819, a volume of poems reviewed
by Lamb (see Vol. I.), in 1819, one of which was entitled "The Kangaroo." It was the first
book printed in Australia. Field edited Heywood for the old Shakespeare Society. Although a
Field, he was no kinsman of Lamb's.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 90. MODERN GALLANTRY.

London Magazine, November, 1822.

De Quincey writes in "London Reminiscences" concerning the present essay:--

    Among the prominent characteristics of Lamb, I know not how it is
    that I have omitted to notice the peculiar emphasis and depth of
    his courtesy. This quality was in him a really chivalrous feeling,
    springing from his heart, and cherished with the sanctity of a
    duty. He says somewhere in speaking of himself[?] under the mask
    of a third person, whose character he is describing, that, in
    passing a servant girl, even at a street-crossing, he used to take
    off his hat. Now, the spirit of Lamb's gallantry would have
    prompted some such expression of homage, though the customs of
    the country would not allow it to be literally fulfilled, for
    the very reason that would prompt it--viz., in order to pay
    respect--since the girl would, in such a case, suppose a man
    laughing at her. But the instinct of his heart was to think
    highly of female nature, and to pay a real homage (not the hollow
    demonstration of outward honour which a Frenchman calls his
    "homage," and which is really a mask for contempt) to the sacred
    idea of pure and virtuous womanhood.

Page 90, line 2 of essay. Upon the point of gallantry. Here, in the London Magazine, came the
words:--

    "as upon a thing altogether unknown to the old classic ages.
    This has been defined to consist in a certain obsequiousness, or
    deferential respect, paid to females, as females."

Page 92, line 3. Joseph Paice. Joseph Paice was, as Lamb pointed out to Barton in a letter
in January, 1830, a real person, and all that Lamb records. According to Miss Anne Manning's
Family Pictures, 1860, Joseph Paice, who was a friend of Thomas Coventry, took Lamb into his
office at 27 Bread Street Hill somewhere in 1789 or 1790 to learn book-keeping and business
habits. He passed thence to the South-Sea House and thence to the East India House. Miss Manning
(who was the author of Flemish Interiors) helps to fill out Lamb's sketch into a full-length
portrait. She tells us that Mr. Paice's life was one long series of gentle altruisms and the
truest Christianities.

    Charles Lamb speaks of his holding an umbrella over a
    market-woman's fruit-basket, lest her store should be spoilt by a
    sudden shower; and his uncovering his head to a servant-girl who
    was requesting him to direct her on her way. These traits are
    quite in keeping with many that can still be authenticated:--his
    carrying presents of game himself, for instance, to humble
    friends, who might ill have spared a shilling to a servant; and
    his offering a seat in his hackney-coach to some poor, forlorn,
    draggled beings, who were picking their way along on a rainy
    day. Sometimes these chance guests have proved such uncongenial
    companions, that the kind old man has himself faced the bad
    weather rather than prolong the acquaintance, paying the
    hackney-coachman for setting down the stranger at the end of his
    fare. At lottery times, he used to be troubled with begging visits
    from certain improvident hangers-on, who had risked their all in
    buying shares of an unlucky number. About the time the numbers
    were being drawn, there would be a ring at the gate-bell, perhaps
    at dinner time. His spectacles would be elevated, an anxious
    expression would steal over his face, as he half raised himself
    from his seat, to obtain a glance at the intruder--"Ah, I thought
    so, I expected as much," he would gently say. "I expected I should
    soon have a visit from poor Mrs. ---- or Mrs. ----. Will you
    excuse me, my dear madam," (to my grandmother) "for a moment,
    while I just tell her it is quite out of my power to help her?"
    counting silver into his hand all the time. Then, a parley would
    ensue at the hall-door--complainant telling her tale in a doleful
    voice: "My good woman, I really cannot," etc.; and at last the
    hall-door would be shut. "Well, sir," my grandmother used to say,
    as Mr. Paice returned to his seat, "I do not think you have sent
    Mrs. ---- away quite penniless." "Merely enough for a joint of
    meat, my good madam--just a trifle to buy her a joint of meat."

Family Pictures should be consulted by any one who would know more of this gentleman and of
Susan Winstanly.

Page 92, line 5. Edwards. Thomas Edwards (1699-1757), author of Canons of Criticism, 1748.
The sonnet in question, which was modelled on that addressed by Milton to Cyriack Skinner,
was addressed to Paice, as the author's nephew, bidding him carry on the family line. Paice,
however, as Lamb tells us, did not marry.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 94. THE OLD BENCHERS OF THE INNER TEMPLE.

London Magazine, September, 1821.

Lamb's connection with the Temple was fairly continuous until 1817, when he was thirty-eight.
He was born at No. 2 Crown Office Row in 1775, and he did not leave it, except for visits to
Hertfordshire, until 1782, when he entered Christ's Hospital. There he remained, save for holidays,
until 1789, returning then to Crown Office Row for the brief period between leaving school
and the death of Samuel Salt, under whose roof the Lambs dwelt, in February, 1792. The 7 Little
Queen Street, the 45 and 36 Chapel Street, Pentonville, and the first 34 Southampton Buildings
(with Gutch) periods, followed; but in 1801 Lamb and his sister were back in the Temple again,
at 16 Mitre Court Buildings, since rebuilt. They moved from there, after a brief return to
34 Southampton Buildings, to 4 Inner Temple Lane (since rebuilt and now called Johnson's Buildings)
in 1809, where they remained until the move to 20 Great Russell Street in 1817. With each change
after that (except for another and briefer sojourn in Southampton Buildings in 1830), Lamb's
home became less urban. His last link with the Temple may be said to have snapped with the
death of Randal Morris, sub-treasurer of the Inner Temple, in 1827 (see "A Death-Bed"), although
now and then he slept at Crabb Robinson's chambers.

The Worshipful Masters of the Bench of the Hon. Society of the Inner Temple--to give the Benchers
their full title--have the government of the Inner Temple in their hands.

Page 97, line 12 from foot, J----ll. Joseph Jekyll, great-nephew of Joseph Jekyll, Master of
the Rolls, well known as a wit and diner-out. He became a Bencher in 1795, and was made a Master
in Chancery in 1815, through the influence of the Prince Regent. Under his direction the hall
of the Inner Temple and the Temple Church were restored, and he compiled a little book entitled
Facts and Observations relating to the Temple Church and the Monuments contained in it, 1811.
He became a K.C. in 1805, and died in 1837, aged eighty-five. Jekyll was a friend of George
Dyer, and was interested in Lamb's other friends, the Norrises. & letter from him, thanking
Lamb for a copy of the Last Essays of Elia, is printed in Mr. W.C. Hazlitt's The Lambs. He
had another link of a kind with Lamb in being M.P. for "sweet Calne in Wiltshire." Jekyll's
chambers were at 6 King's Bench Walk. On the same staircase lived for a while George Colman
the Younger.

Page 97, line 9 from foot. Thomas Coventry. Thomas Coventry became a Bencher in 1766. He was
the nephew of William, fifth Earl of Coventry, and resided at North Cray Place, near Bexley,
in Kent, and in Serjeant's Inn, where he died in 1797, in his eighty-fifth year. He is buried
in the Temple Church. Coventry was a sub-governor of the South-Sea House, and it was he who
presented Lamb's friend, James White, to Christ's Hospital. He was M.P. for Bridport from 1754
to 1780. As an illustration of Coventry's larger benefactions it may be remarked that he presented
£10,000 worth of South Sea stock to Christ's Hospital in 1782.

Page 98, line 9. Samuel Salt. Samuel Salt was the son of the Rev. John Salt, of Audley, in
Staffordshire; and he married a daughter of Lord Coventry, thus being connected with Thomas
Coventry by marriage. He was M.P. for Liskeard for some years, and a governor of the South-Sea
House. Samuel Salt, who became a Bencher in 1782, rented at No. 2 Crown Office Row two sets
of chambers, in one of which the Lamb family dwelt. John Lamb, Lamb's father, who is described
as a scrivener in Charles's Christ's Hospital application form, was Salt's right-hand man,
not only in business, but privately, while Mrs. Lamb acted as housekeeper and possibly as cook.
Samuel Salt played the part of tutelary genius to John Lamb's two sons. It was he who arranged
for Charles to be nominated for Christ's Hospital (by Timothy Yeats); probably he was instrumental
also in getting him into the East India House; and in all likelihood it was he who paved the
way for the younger John Lamb's position in the South-Sea House. It was also Samuel Salt who
gave to Charles and Mary the freedom of his library (see the reference in the essay on "Mackery
End"): a privilege which, to ourselves, is the most important of all. Salt died in February,
1792, and is buried in the vault of the Temple Church. He left to John Lamb £500 in South Sea
stock and a small annual sum, and to Elizabeth Lamb £200 in money; but with his death the prosperity
of the family ceased.

Page 98, line 21. Lovel. See below.

Page 98, line 9 from foot. Miss Blandy. Mary Blandy was the daughter of Francis Blandy, a lawyer
at Henley-on-Thames. The statement that she was to inherit £10,000 induced an officer in the
marines, named Cranstoun, a son of Lord Cranstoun, to woo her, although he already had a wife
living. Her father proving hostile, Cranstoun supplied her with arsenic to bring about his
removal. Mr. Blandy died on August 14, 1751. Mary Blandy was arrested, and hanged on April
6 in the next year, after a trial which caused immense excitement. The defence was that Miss
Blandy was ignorant of the nature of the powder, and thought it a means of persuading her father
to her point of view. In this belief the father, who knew he was being tampered with, also
shared. Cranstoun avoided the law, but died in the same year. Lamb had made use of Salt's faux
pas, many years earlier, in "Mr. H." (see Vol. IV.).

Page 99, line 13. His eye lacked lustre. At these words, in the London Magazine, came this
passage:--

    "Lady Mary Wortley Montague was an exception to her sex: she says,
    in one of her letters, 'I wonder what the women see in S. I do not
    think him by any means handsome. To me he appears an extraordinary
    dull fellow, and to want common sense. Yet the fools are all
    sighing for him.'"

I have not found the passage.

Page 99, line 14. Susan P----. This is Susannah Peirson, sister of the Peter Peirson to whom
we shall come directly. Samuel Salt left her a choice of books in his library, together with
a money legacy and a silver inkstand, hoping that reading and reflection would make her life
"more comfortable." B----d Row would be Bedford Row.

Page 99, line 12 from foot, F., the counsel. I cannot be sure who this was. The Law Directory
of that day does not help.

Page 99, foot. Elwes. John Elwes, the miser (1714-1789), whose Life was published in 1790 after
running through The World--the work of Topham, that paper's editor, who is mentioned in Lamb's
essay on "Newspapers."

Page 100, line 15. Lovel. Lovel was the name by which Lamb refers to his father, John Lamb.
We know nothing of him in his prime beyond what is told in this essay, but after the great
tragedy, there are in the Letters glimpses of him as a broken, querulous old man. He died in
1799. Of John Lamb's early days all our information is contained in this essay, in his own
Poetical Pieces, where he describes his life as a footman, and in the essay on "Poor Relations,"
where his boyish memories of Lincoln are mentioned. Of his verses it was perhaps too much (though
prettily filial) to say they were "next to Swift and Prior;" but they have much good humour
and spirit. John Lamb's poems were printed in a thin quarto under the title Poetical Pieces
on Several Occasions. The dedication was to "The Forty-Nine Members of the Friendly Society
for the Benefit of their Widows, of whom I have the honour of making the Number Fifty," and
in the dedicatory epistle it is stated that the Society was in some degree the cause of Number
Fifty's commencing author, on account of its approving and printing certain lines which were
spoken by him at an annual meeting it the Devil Tavern. The first two poetical pieces are apologues
on marriage and the happiness that it should bring, the characters being drawn from bird life.
Then follow verses written for the meetings of the Society, and miscellaneous compositions.
Of these the description of a lady's footman's daily life, from within, has a good deal of
sprightliness, and displays quite a little mastery of the mock-heroic couplet. The last poem
is a long rhymed version of the story of Joseph. With this exception, for which Lamb's character-sketch
does not quite prepare us, it is very natural to think of the author as Lovel. One of the pieces,
a familiar letter to a doctor, begins thus:--

  My good friend,
  For favours to my son and wife,
  I shall love you whilst I've life,
  Your clysters, potions, help'd to save,
  Our infant lambkin from the grave.

The infant lambkin was probably John Lamb, but of course it might have been Charles. The expression,
however, proves that punning ran in the family. Lamb's library contained his father's copy
of Hudibras.

Lamb's phrase, descriptive of his father's decline, is taken with a variation from his own
poems--from the "Lines written on the Day of my Aunt's Funeral" (Blank Verse, 1798):--

  One parent yet is left,--a wretched thing,
  A sad survivor of his buried wife
  A palsy-smitten, childish, old, old man,
  A semblance most forlorn of what he was--
  A merry cheerful man.

Page 100, line 17. "Flapper." This is probably an allusion to the flappers in Gulliver's Travels--the
servants who, in Laputa, carried bladders with which every now and then they flapped the mouths
and ears of their employers, to recall them to themselves and disperse their meditations.

Page 100, line 9 from foot. Better was not concerned. At these words, in the London Magazine,
came:--

"He pleaded the cause of a delinquent in the treasury of the Temple so effectually with S.
the then treasurer--that the man was allowed to keep his place. L. had the offer to succeed
him. It had been a lucrative promotion. But L. chose to forego the advantage, because the man
had a wife and family."

Page 101, line 10. Bayes. Mr. Bayes is the author and stage manager in Buckingham's "Rehearsal."
This phrase is not in the play and must have been John Lamb's own, in reference to Garrick.

Page 101, line 23. Peter Pierson. Peter Peirson (as his name was rightly spelled) was the son
of Peter Peirson of the parish of St. Andrew's, Holborn, who lived probably in Bedford Row.
He became a Bencher in 1800, died in 1808, and is buried in the Temple Church. When Charles
Lamb entered the East India House in April, 1792, Peter Peirson and his brother, John Lamb,
were his sureties.

Page 101, line 11 from foot. Our great philanthropist. Probably John Howard, whom, as we have
seen in the essay on "Christ's Hospital," Lamb did not love. He was of singular sallowness.

Page 101, line 9 from foot. Daines Barrington. Daines Barrington (1727-1800), the correspondent
of Gilbert White, many of whose letters in The Natural History of Selborne are addressed to
him. Indeed it was Barrington who inspired that work:--a circumstance which must atone for
his exterminatory raid on the Temple sparrows. His Chambers were at 5 King's Bench Walk. Barrington
became a Bencher in 1777 and died in 1800. He is buried in the Temple Church. His Episcopal
brother was Shute Barrington (1734-1826), Bishop successively of Llandaff, Salisbury and Durham.

Page 102, line 1. Old Barton. Thomas Barton, who became a Bencher in 1775 and died in 1791.
His chambers were in King's Bench Walk. He is buried in the vault of the Temple Church.

Page 102, line 6. Read. John Reade, who became a Bencher in 1792 and died in 1804. His rooms
were in Mitre Court Buildings.

Page 102, line 6. Twopenny. Richard, Twopenny was not a Bencher, but merely a resident in the
Temple. He was strikingly thin. Twopenny was stockbroker to the Bank of England, and died in 1809.

Page 102, line 8. Wharry. John Wharry, who became a Bencher in 1801, died in 1812, and was
buried in the Temple Church.

Page 102, line 22. Jackson. This was Richard Jackson, some time M.P. for New Romney, to whom
Johnson, Boswell tells us, refused the epithet "Omniscient" as blasphemous, changing it to
"all knowing." He was made a Bencher in 1770 and died in 1787.

Page 102, foot. Mingay. James Mingay, who was made a Bencher in 1785, died in 1812. He was
M.P. for Thetford and senior King's Counsel. He was also Recorder of Aldborough, Crabbe's town.
He lived at 4 King's Bench Walk.

Page 103, line 1. Baron Maseres. This was Francis Maseres (1731-1824), mathematician, reformer
and Cursiter Baron of the Exchequer. He lived at 5 King's Bench Walk, and at Reigate, and wore
a three-cornered hat and ruffles to the end.

Baron Maseres, who was made a Bencher in 1774, died in 1824.

Page 104, line 13. Hookers and Seldens. Richard Hooker (1554?-1600), the "judicious," was Master
of the Temple. John Selden (1584-1654), the jurist, who lived in Paper Buildings and practised
law in the Temple, was buried in the Temple Church with much pomp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 104. GRACE BEFORE MEAT.

London Magazine, November, 1821.

This was the essay, Lamb suggested, which Southey may have had in mind when in an article in
the Quarterly Review he condemned Elia as wanting "a sounder religious feeling." In his "Letter
to Southey" (Vol. I.), which contained Lamb's protest against Southey's strictures, he wrote:--"I
am at a loss what particular essay you had in view (if my poor ramblings amount to that appellation)
when you were in such a hurry to thrust in your objection, like bad news, foremost.--Perhaps
the Paper on 'Saying Graces' was the obnoxious feature. I have endeavoured there to rescue
a voluntary duty--good in place, but never, as I remember, literally commanded--from the charge
of an undecent formality. Rightly taken, sir, that paper was not against graces, but want of
grace; not against the ceremony, but the carelessness and slovenliness so often observed in
the performance of it."

Page 108, line 12 from foot. C----. Coleridge; but Lamb may really have said it.

Page 108, foot. The author of the Rambler. Veal pie with prunes in it was perhaps Dr. Johnson's
favourite dish.

Page 109, line 10. Dagon. The fish god worshipped by the Philistines. See Judges xvi. 23 and
I Samuel v. for the full significance of Lamb's reference.

Page 110, line 16. C.V.L. Charles Valentine le Grice. Later in life, in 1798, Le Grice himself
became a clergyman.

Page 110, line 19. Our old form at school. The Christ's Hospital graces in Lamb's day were
worded thus:--

    GRACE BEFORE MEAT

    Give us thankful hearts, O Lord God, for the Table which thou hast
    spread for us. Bless thy good Creatures to our use, and us to thy
    service, for Jesus Christ his sake. Amen.

    GRACE AFTER MEAT

    Blessed Lord, we yield thee hearty praise and thanksgiving for our
    Founders and Benefactors, by whose Charitable Benevolence thou
    hast refreshed our Bodies at this time. So season and refresh our
    Souls with thy Heavenly Spirit, that we may live to thy Honour and
    Glory. Protect thy Church, the King, and all the Royal Family. And
    preserve us in peace and truth through Christ our Saviour. Amen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 110. MY FIRST PLAY.

London Magazine, December, 1821.

Lamb had already sketched out this essay in the "Table Talk" in Leigh Hunt's Examiner, December
9, 1813, under the title "Playhouse Memoranda" (see Vol. I.). Leigh Hunt reprinted it in The
Indicator, December 13, 1820.

Page 111, line 1. Garrick's Drury. Garrick's Drury Lane was condemned in 1791, and superseded
in 1794 by the new theatre, the burning of which in 1809 led to the Rejected Addresses. It
has recently come to light that Lamb was among the competitors who sent in to the management
the real addresses. The present Drury Lane Theatre dates from 1812.

Page 111, line 11. My godfather F. Lamb's godfather was Francis Fielde. The British Directory
for 1793 gives him as Francis Field, oilman, 62 High Holborn. Whether or no he played the part
in Sheridan's matrimonial comedy that is attributed to him, I do not know (Moore makes the
friend a Mr. Ewart); but it does not sound like an invented story. Richard Brinsley Sheridan
carried Miss Linley, the oratorio singer, from Bath and the persecutions of Major Mathews,
in March, 1772, and placed her in France. They were married near Calais, and married again
in England in April, 1773. Sheridan became manager of Drury Lane, in succession to Garrick,
in 1776, the first performance under his control being on September 21. Lamb is supposed to
have had some personal acquaintance with Sheridan. Mary Lamb speaks of him as helping the Sheridans,
father and son, with a pantomime; but of the work we know nothing definite. I do not consider
the play printed in part in the late Charles Kent's edition of Lamb, on the authority of P.G.
Patmore, either to be by Lamb or to correspond to Mary Lamb's description.

Page 118, line 8. His testamentary beneficence. Lamb was not joking. Writing to The Athenæum,
January 5, 1901, Mr. Thomas Greg says:--

    Three-quarters of a century after it passed out of Lamb's
    possession I am happy to tell the world--or that small portion of
    it to whom any fact about his life is precious--exactly where and
    what this landed property is. By indentures of lease and release
    dated March 23 and 24, 1779, George Merchant and Thomas Wyman, two
    yeomen of Braughing in the county of Hertford, conveyed to Francis
    Fielde, of the parish of St. Andrew's, Holborn, in the county
    of Middlesex, oilman, for the consideration of £20., all that
    messuage or tenement, with the orchard, gardens, yards, barns,
    edifices, and buildings, and all and singular the appurtenances
    therewithal used or occupied, situate, lying, and being at West
    Mill Green in the parish of Buntingford West Mill in the said
    county of Hertford, etc. On March 5, 1804, Francis Fielde, of New
    Cavendish Street, Esq., made his will, and, with the exception of
    two, annuities to female relatives, left all his residuary estate,
    real and personal, to his wife Sarah Fielde.

    This will was proved on November 5, 1809. By indentures of lease
    and release dated August 20 and 21, 1812, Sarah Fielde conveyed
    the said property to Charles Lamb, of Inner Temple Lane,
    gentleman. By an indenture of feoffment dated February 15, 1815,
    made between the said Charles Lamb of the first part, the said
    Sarah Fielde of the second part, and Thomas Greg the younger,
    of Broad Street Buildings, London, Esq., the said property was
    conveyed to the said Thomas Greg the younger for £50.

The said Thomas Greg the younger died in 1839, and left the said property to his nephew, Robert
Philips Greg, now of Coles Park, West Mill, in the same county; and the said Robert Philips
Greg in 1884 conveyed it to his nephew, Thomas Tylston Greg, of 15 Clifford's Inn, London,
in whose possession it now is in substantially the same condition as it was in 1815.

The evidence that the Charles Lamb who conveyed the property in 1815 is Elia himself is overwhelming.

1. The essay itself gives the locality correctly: it is about two and a half miles from Puckeridge.

2. The plot of land contains as near as possible three-quarters of an acre, with an old thatched
cottage and small barn standing upon it. The barn, specially mentioned in all the deeds, is
a most unusual adjunct of so small a cottage. The property, the deeds of which go back to 1708,
appears to have been isolated and held by small men, and consists of a long narrow tongue of
land jutting into the property now of the Savile family (Earls of Mexborough), but formerly
of the Earls of Hardwicke.

3. The witness to Charles Lamb's signature on the deed of 1815 is William Hazlitt, of 19, York
Street, Westminster.

4. Lamb was living in Inner Temple Lane in 1815, and did not leave the Temple till 1817.

5. The essay was printed in the London Magazine for December, 1821, six years after "the estate
has passed into more prudent hands."

6.

It is certainly not the fact that Lamb acquired the property, as he states, by the will of
his godfather, for it was conveyed to him some three years after the latter's death by Mrs.
Fielde. But strict accuracy of fact in Lamb's 'Essays' we neither look for nor desire. In all
probability Mrs. Fielde conveyed him the property in accordance with an expressed wish of her
husband in his lifetime. Reading also between the lines of the essay, it is interesting to
notice that Francis Fielde, the Holborn oilman of 1779, in 1809 has become Francis Fielde,
Esq., of New Cavendish Street. In the letter quoted above Lamb speaks of his purchaser as "Mr.
Grig Junr.," more, I am inclined to think, from his desire to have his little joke than from
mere inaccuracy, for he must have known the correct name of his purchaser. But Mr. Greg, Jun.,
was only just twenty-one when he bought the property, and the expression "as merry as a grig"
running in Lamb's mind might have proved irresistible to him. Lastly, the property is now called,
and has been so far back as I can trace, "Button Snap." No such name is found in any of the
title-deeds, and it was impossible before to understand whence it arose. Now it is not: Lamb
must have so christened his little property in jest, and the name has stuck.

THOMAS GREG.

Page 113, line 1. The maternal lap. With the exception of a brief mention on page 33--"the
gentle posture of maternal tenderness"--this is Lamb's only reference to his mother in all
the essays--probably from the wish not to wound his sister, who would naturally read all he
wrote; although we are told by Talfourd that she spoke of her mother with composure. But it
is possible to be more sensitive for others than they are for themselves.

Page 113, line 3. The play was Artaxerxes. The opera, by Thomas Augustine Arne (1710-1778),
produced in 1762, founded on Metastasio's "Artaserse." The date of the performance was in all
probability December 1, 1780, although Lamb suggests that it was later; for that was the only
occasion in 1780-81-82 on which "Artaxerxes" was followed by "Harlequin's Invasion," a pantomime
dating from 1759, the work of Garrick. It shows Harlequin invading the territory of Shakespeare;
Harlequin is defeated and Shakespeare restored.

Page 113, line 20. The Lady of the Manor. Here Lamb's memory, I fancy, betrayed him. This play
(a comic opera by William Kenrick) was not performed at Drury Lane or Covent Garden in the
period mentioned. Lamb's pen probably meant to write "The Lord of the Manor," General Burgoyne's
opera, with music by William Jackson, of Exeter, which was produced in 1780. It was frequently
followed in the bill by "Robinson Crusoe," but never by "Lun's Ghost," whereas Wycherley's
"Way of the World" was followed by "Lun's Ghost" at Drury Lane on January 9, 1782. We may therefore
assume that Lamb's second visit to the theatre was to see "The Lord of the Manor," followed
by "Robinson Crusoe," some time in 1781, and his third to see "The Way of the World," followed
by "Lun's Ghost" on January 9, 1782. "Lun's Ghost" was produced on January 3, 1782. Lun was
the name under which John Rich (1682?-1761), the pantomimist and theatrical manager, had played
in pantomime.

Page 113, last line. Round Church ... of the Templars. This allusion to the Temple Church and
its Gothic heads was used before by Lamb in his story "First Going to Church" in Mrs. Leicester's
School (see Vol. III.). In that volume Mary Lamb had told the story of what we may take to
be her first play (see "Visit to the Cousins"), the piece being Congreve's "Mourning Bride."

Page 114, line 1. The season 1781-2. Lamb was six on February 10, 1781. He says, in his "Play-house
Memoranda," of the same occasion, "Oh when shall I forget first seeing a play, at the age of
five or six?"

Page 114, line 3. At school. Lamb was at Christ's Hospital from 1782 to 1789.

Page 114, end. Mrs. Siddons in "Isabella." Mrs. Siddons first played this part at Drury Lane
on October 10, 1782. The play was "Isabella," a version by Garrick of Southerne's "Fatal Marriage."
Mrs. Siddons also appeared frequently as Isabella in "Measure for Measure;" but Lamb clearly
says "in" Isabella, meaning the play. Lamb's sonnet, in which he collaborated with Coleridge,
on Mrs. Siddons, which was printed in the Morning Chronicle in December, 1794 (see Vol. IV.),
was written when he was nineteen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 115. DREAM-CHILDREN.

London Magazine, January, 1822.

John Lamb died on October 26, 1821, leaving all his property to his brother. Charles was greatly
upset by his loss. Writing to Wordsworth in March, 1822, he said: "We are pretty well save
colds and rheumatics, and a certain deadness to every thing, which I think I may date from
poor John's Loss.... Deaths over-set one, and put one out long after the recent grief." (His
friend Captain Burney died in the same month.) Lamb probably began "Dream-Children,"--in some
ways, I think, his most perfect prose work--almost immediately upon his brother's death. The
essay "My Relations" may be taken in connection with this as completing the picture of John
Lamb. His lameness was caused by the fall of a stone in 1796, but I doubt if the leg were really
amputated.

The description in this essay of Blakesware, the seat of the Plumers, is supplemented by the
essay entitled "Blakesmoor in H----shire." Except that Lamb substitutes Norfolk for the nearer
county, the description is accurate; it is even true that there is a legend in the Plumer family
concerning the mysterious death of two children and the loss of the baronetcy thereby--Sir
Walter Plumer, who died in the seventeenth century, being the last to hold the title. In his
poem "The Grandame" (see Vol. IV.), Lamb refers to Mrs. Field's garrulous tongue and her joy
in recounting the oft-told tale; and it may be to his early associations with the old story
that his great affection for Morton's play, "The Children in the Wood," which he so often commended--particularly
with Miss Kelly in the caste--was due. The actual legend of the children in the wood belongs,
however, to Norfolk.

William Plumer's newer and more fashionable mansion was at Gilston, which is not in the adjoining
county, but also in Hertfordshire, near Harlow, only a few miles distant from Blakesware. Mrs.
Field died of cancer in the breast in August, 1792, and was buried in Widford churchyard, hard
by Blakesware.

According to Lamb's Key the name Alice W----n was "feigned." If by Alice W----n Lamb, as has
been suggested, means Ann Simmons, of Blenheims, near Blakesware, he was romancing when he
said that he had courted her for seven long years, although the same statement is made in the
essay on "New Year's Eve." We know that in 1796 he abandoned all ideas of marriage. This was
1796. Therefore, as he was born in 1775, he must have begun the wooing of Alice W----n when
he was fourteen in order to complete the seven long years of courtship. My own feeling, as
I have stated in the notes to the love sonnets in Vol. IV., is that Lamb was never a very serious
wooer, and that Alice W----n was more an abstraction around which now and then to group tender
imaginings of what might have been than any tangible figure.

A proof that Ann Simmons and Alice W----n are one has been found in the circumstance that Miss
Simmons did marry a Mr. Bartrum, or Bartram, mentioned by Lamb in this essay as being the father
of Alice's real children. Bartrum was a pawnbroker in Princes Street, Coventry Street. Mr.
W.C. Hazlitt says that Hazlitt had seen Lamb wandering up and down before the shop trying to
get a glimpse of his old friend.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 118. DISTANT CORRESPONDENTS.

London Magazine, March, 1822.

The germ of this essay will be found in a letter to Barron Field, to whom the essay is addressed,
of August 31, 1817. Barron Field was a son of Henry Field, apothecary to Christ's Hospital.
His brother, Francis John Field, through whom Lamb probably came to know Barron, was a clerk
in the India House.

Barron Field was associated with Lamb on Leigh Hunt's Reflector in 1810-1812. He also was dramatic
critic for The Times for a while. In 1816 he was appointed judge of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales, where he remained until 1824. For other information see the note, in Vol. I.,
to his First-Fruits of Australian Poetry, reviewed by Lamb. In the same number of the London
Magazine which included the present essay was Field's account of his outward voyage to New
South Wales.

Page 119, line 24. Our mutual friend P. Not identifiable: probably no one in particular. The
Bench would be the King's Bench Prison. A little later one of Lamb's friends, William Hone,
was confined there for three years.

Page 121, line 8. The late Lord C. This was Thomas Pitt, second Baron Camelford (1775-1804),
who after a quarrelsome life, first in the navy and afterwards as a man about town, was killed
in a duel at Kensington, just where Melbury Road now is. The spot chosen by him for his grave
was on the borders of the Lake of Lampierre, near three trees; but there is a doubt if his
body ever rested there, for it lay for years in the crypt of St. Anne's, Soho. Its ultimate
fate was the subject of a story by Charles Reade.

Page 123, line 11. Bleach. Illegitimacy, according to some old authors, wears out in the third
generation, enabling a natural son's descendant to resume the ancient coat-of-arms. Lamb refers
to this sanction.

Page 123, line 20. Hare-court. The Lambs lived at 4 Inner Temple Lane (now rebuilt as Johnson's
Buildings) from 1809 to 1817. Writing to Coleridge in June, 1809, Lamb says:--"The rooms are
delicious, and the best look backwards into Hare Court, where there is a pump always going.
Hare Court trees come in at the window, so that it's like living in a garden."

Barron Field was entered on the books of the Inner Temple in 1809 and was called to the Bar
in 1814.

Page 123, last paragraph. Sally W----r. Lamb's Key gives "Sally Winter;" but as to who she
was we have no knowledge.

Page 123, end. J.W. James White. See next essay.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 124. THE PRAISE OF CHIMNEY-SWEEPERS.

London Magazine, May, 1822, where it has a sub-title, "A May-Day Effusion."

This was not Lamb's only literary association with chimney-sweepers. In Vol. I. of this edition
will be found the description of a sweep in the country which there is good reason to believe
is Lamb's work. Again, in 1824, James Montgomery, the poet, edited a book--The Chimney-Sweepers'
Friend and Climbing Boys' Album--with the benevolent purpose of interesting people in the hardships
of the climbing boys' life and producing legislation to alleviate it. The first half of the
book is practical: reports of committees, and so forth; the second is sentimental; verses by
Bernard Barton, William Lisle Bowles, and many others; short stories of kidnapped children
forced to the horrid business; and kindred themes. Among the "favourite poets of the day" to
whom Montgomery applied were Scott, Wordsworth, Rogers, Moore, Joanna Baillie and Lamb. Lamb
replied by copying out (with the alteration of Toddy for Dacre) "The Chimney-Sweeper" from
Blake's Songs of Innocence, described by Montgomery as "a very rare and curious little work."
In that poem it will be remembered the little sweep cries "weep, weep, weep." Lamb compares
the cry more prettily to the "peep, peep" of the sparrow.

Page 125, line 6. Shop ... Mr. Thomas Read's Saloop Coffee House was at No. 102 Fleet Street.
The following lines were painted on a board in Read's establishment:--

  Come, all degrees now passing by,
  My charming liquor taste and try;
  To Lockyer come, and drink your fill;
  Mount Pleasant has no kind of ill.
  The fumes of wine, punch, drams and beer,
  It will expell; your spirits cheer;
  From drowsiness your spirits free.
  Sweet as a rose your breath will be,
  Come taste and try, and speak your mind;
  Such rare ingredients here are joined,
  Mount Pleasant pleases all mankind.

Page 127, line 12 from foot. The young Montagu. Edward Wortley Montagu (1713-1776), the traveller,
ran away from Westminster School more than once, becoming, among other things, a chimney-sweeper.

Page 127, line 9 from foot. Arundel Castle. The Sussex seat of the Dukes of Norfolk. The "late
duke" was Charles Howard, eleventh duke, who died in 1815, and who spent enormous sums of money
on curiosities. I can find no record of the story of the sweep. Perhaps Lamb invented it, or
applied it to Arundel.

Page 128, line 14 from foot. Jem White. James White (1775-1820), who was at Christ's Hospital
with Lamb, and who wrote Falstaff's Letters, 1796, in his company (see Vol. I.). "There never
was his like," Lamb told another old schoolfellow, Valentine Le Grice, in 1833; "we shall never
see such days as those in which he flourished." See the essay "On Some of the Old Actors,"
for an anecdote of White.

Page 128, line 8 from foot. The fair of St. Bartholomew. Held on September 3 at Smithfield,
until 1855. George Daniel, in his recollections of Lamb, records a visit they paid together
to the Fair. Lamb took Wordsworth through its noisy mazes in 1802.

Page 129, line 14. Bigod. John Fenwick (see note to "The Two Races of Men").

Leigh Hunt, in The Examiner for May 5, 1822, quoted some of the best sentences of this essay.
On May 12 a correspondent (L.E.) wrote a very agreeable letter supporting Lamb's plea for generosity
to sweeps and remarking thus upon Lamb himself:--

    I read the modicum on "Chimney-Sweepers," which your last paper
    contained, with pleasure. It appears to be the production of that
    sort of mind which you justly denominate "gifted;" but which is
    greatly undervalued by the majority of men, because they have no
    sympathies in common with it. Many who might partially appreciate
    such a spirit, do nevertheless object to it, from the snap-dragon
    nature of its coruscations, which shine themselves, but shew every
    thing around them to disadvantage. Your deep philosophers also,
    and all the laborious professors of the art of sinking, may
    elevate their nasal projections, and demand "cui bono"? For my
    part I prefer a little enjoyment to a great deal of philosophy. It
    is these gifted minds that enliven our habitations, and contribute
    so largely to those every-day delights, which constitute, after
    all, the chief part of mortal happiness. Such minds are ever
    active--their light, like the vestal lamp, is ever burning--and in
    my opinion the man who refines the common intercourse of life, and
    wreaths the altars of our household gods with flowers, is more
    deserving of respect and gratitude than all the sages who waste
    their lives in elaborate speculations, which tend to nothing, and
    which we cannot comprehend--nor they neither.

On June 2, however, "J.C.H." intervened to correct what he considered the "dangerous spirit"
of Lamb's essay, which said so little of the hardships of the sweeps, but rather suggested
that they were a happy class. J.C.H. then put the case of the unhappy sweep with some eloquence,
urging upon all householders the claims of the mechanical sweeping machine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 130. A COMPLAINT OF THE DECAY OF BEGGARS IN THE METROPOLIS.

London Magazine, June, 1822.

The origin of this essay was the activity at that time of the Society for the Suppression of
Mendicity, founded in 1818, of which a Mr. W.H. Bodkin was the Hon. Secretary. The Society's
motto was "Benefacta male collocata, malefacta existima;" and it attempted much the same work
now performed by the Charity Organisation Society. Perhaps the delight expressed in its annual
reports in the exposure of impostors was a shade too hearty--at any rate one can see therein
cause sufficient for Lamb's counter-blast. Lamb was not the only critic of Mr. Bodkin's zeal.
Hood, in the Odes and Addresses, published in 1825, included a remonstrance to Mr. Bodkin.

The Society's activity led to a special commission of the House of Commons in 1821 to inquire
into the laws relating to vagrants, concerning which Lamb speaks, the clergyman alluded to
being Dr. Henry Butts Owen, of Highgate. The result of the commission was an additional stringency,
brought about by Mr. George Chetwynd's bill.

It was this essay, says Hood, which led to his acquaintance with Charles Lamb. After its appearance
in the London Magazine, of which Hood was then sub-editor, he wrote Lamb a letter on coarse
paper purporting to come from a grateful beggar; Lamb did not admit the discovery of the perpetrator
of the joke, but soon afterwards Lamb called on Hood when he was ill, and a friendship followed
to which we owe Hood's charming recollections of Lamb--among the best that were written of
him by any one.

Page 131, line 14. The Blind Beggar. The reference is to the ballad of "The Beggar's Daughter
of Bednall Green." The version in the Percy Reliques relates the adventures of Henry, Earl
of Leicester, the son of Simon de Montfort, who was blinded at the battle of Evesham and left
for dead, and thereafter begged his way with his pretty Bessee. In the London Magazine Lamb
had written "Earl of Flanders," which he altered to "Earl of Cornwall" in Elia. The ballad
says Earl of Leicester.

Page 131, line 28. Dear Margaret Newcastle. One of Lamb's recurring themes of praise (see "The
Two Races of Men," "Mackery End in Hertfordshire," and "Detached Thoughts on Books and Reading").
"Romancical," according to the New English Dictionary, is Lamb's own word. This is the only
reference given for it.

Page 133, line 7. Spital sermons. On Monday of Easter week it was the custom for the Christ's
Hospital boys to walk in procession to the Royal Exchange, and on Tuesday to the Mansion House;
on each occasion returning with the Lord Mayor to hear a special sermon--a spital sermon, as
it was called--and an anthem. The sermon is now preached only on Easter Tuesday.

Page 133, line 24. Overseers of St. L----. Lamb's Key states that both the overseers and the
mild rector were inventions. In the London Magazine the rector's parish is "P----."

Page 133, line 27. Vincent Bourne. See Lamb's essay on Vincent Bourne, Vol. I. This poem was
translated by Lamb himself, and was first published in The Indicator for May 3, 1820. See Vol.
IV. for Lamb's other translations from Bourne.

Page 135, line 2. A well-known figure. This beggar I take to be Samuel Horsey. He is stated
to have been known as the King of the Beggars, and a very prominent figure in London. His mutilation
is ascribed to the falling of a piece of timber in Bow Lane, Cheapside, some nineteen years
before; but it may have been, as Lamb says, in the Gordon Riots of 1780.

There is the figure of Horsey on his little carriage, with several other of the more notable
beggars of the day plying their calling, in an etching of old houses at the corner of Chancery
Lane and Fleet Street, made by J.T. Smith in 1789 for his Ancient Topography of London, 1815.
I give it in my large edition.

Page 137, end of essay. Feigned or not. In the London Magazine the essay did not end here.
It continued thus:--

    "'Pray God your honour relieve me,' said a poor beadswoman to my
    friend L---- one day; 'I have seen better days.' 'So have I, my
    good woman,' retorted he, looking up at the welkin which was just
    then threatening a storm--and the jest (he will have it) was as
    good to the beggar as a tester.

    "It was at all events kinder than consigning her to the stocks, or
    the parish beadle--

    "But L. has a way of viewing things in rather a paradoxical light
    on some occasions.

    "ELIA.

    "P.S.--My friend Hume (not MP.) has a curious manuscript in his
    possession, the original draught of the celebrated 'Beggar's
    Petition' (who cannot say by heart the 'Beggar's Petition?') as it
    was written by some school usher (as I remember) with corrections
    interlined from the pen of Oliver Goldsmith. As a specimen of the
    doctor's improvement, I recollect one most judicious alteration--

      "A pamper'd menial drove me from the door.

    "It stood originally--

      "A livery servant drove me, &c.

    "Here is an instance of poetical or artificial language properly
    substituted for the phrase of common conversation; against
    Wordsworth.

    "I think I must get H. to send it to the LONDON, as a corollary to
    the foregoing."

The foregoing passage needs some commentary. Lamb's friend L---- was Lamb himself. He tells
the story to Manning in the letter of January 2,1810.--Lamb's friend Hume was Joseph Hume of
the victualling office, Somerset House, to whom letters from Lamb will be found in Mr. W.C.
Hazlitt's Lamb and Hazlitt, 1900.

In the reference to Wordsworth Lamb pokes fun at the statement, in his friend's preface to
the second edition of Lyrical Ballads, that the purpose of that book was to relate or describe
incidents and situations from common life as far as possible in a selection of language really
used by men.

Lamb's P.S. concerning the "Beggar's Petition" was followed in the London Magazine by this N.B.:--

    "N.B. I am glad to see JANUS veering about to the old quarter. I
    feared he had been rust-bound.

    "C. being asked why he did not like Gold's 'London' as well as
    ours--it was in poor S.'s time--replied--

      "--Because there is no WEATHERCOCK
      And that's the reason why."

The explanation of this note is that "Janus Weathercock"--one of the pseudonyms of Thomas Griffiths
Wainewright--after a long absence from its pages, had sent to the previous month's London Magazine,
May, 1822, an amusing letter of criticism of that periodical, commenting on some of its regular
contributors. Therein he said: "Clap Elia on the back for such a series of good behaviour."--Who
C. is cannot be said; possibly Lamb, as a joke, intends Coleridge to be indicated; but poor
S. would be John Scott, the first editor of the London Magazine, who was killed in a duel.
C.'s reply consisted of the last lines of Wordsworth's "Anecdote for Fathers; or, Falsehood
Corrected." Accurately they run:--

  At Kelve there was no weather-cock
  And that's the reason why.

The hero of this poem was a son of Lamb's friend Basil Montagu.

Gold's London Magazine was a contemporary of the better known London magazine of the same name.
In Vol. III. appeared an article entitled "The Literary Ovation," describing an imaginary dinner-party
given by Messrs. Baldwin, Cradock & Joy in February, 1821, at which Lamb was supposed to be
present and to sing a song by Webster, one of his old dramatists. Mr. Bertram Dobell conjectures
that Wainewright may have written this squib.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 137. A DISSERTATION UPON ROAST PIG.

London Magazine, September, 1822.

There has been some discussion as to the origin of the central idea of this essay. A resemblance
is found in a passage in The Turkish Spy, where, after describing the annual burnt-offering
of a bull by the Athenians, The Spy continues:--

    In process of time a certain priest, in the midst of his bloody
    sacrifice, taking up a piece of the broiled flesh which had fallen
    from the altar on the ground, and burning his fingers therewith,
    suddenly clapt them to his mouth to mitigate the pain. But, when
    he had once tasted the sweetness of the fat, not only longed for
    more of it, but gave a piece to his assistant; and he to others;
    who, all pleased with the new-found dainties, fell to eating of
    flesh greedily. And hence this species of gluttony was taught to
    other mortals.

"Este," a contributor to Notes and Queries, June 21, 1884, wrote:--

    A quarto volume of forty-six pages, once in "Charles Lamb's
    library" (according to a pencilled note in the volume) is before
    me, entitled: Gli Elogi del Porco, Capitoli Berneschi di Tigrinto
    Bistonio P.A., E. Accademico Ducale de' Dissonanti di Modena.
    In Modena per gli Eredi di Bartolmeo Soliani Stampatori Ducali
    MDCCLXI. Con Licenza de' Superiori, [wherein] some former owner
    of the volume has copied out Lamb's prose with many exact verbal
    resemblances from the poem.

It has also been suggested that Porphyry's tract on Abstinence from Animal Food, translated
by William Taylor, bears a likeness to the passage. Taylor's translation, however, was not
published till 1823, some time after Lamb's essay.

These parallels merely go to show that the idea was a commonplace; at the same time it is not
Lamb, but Manning, who told him the story, that must declare its origin. Not only in the essay,
but in a letter to Barton in March, 1823, does Lamb express his indebtedness to his traveller
friend. Allsop, indeed, in his Letters of Coleridge, claims to give the Chinese story which
Manning lent to Lamb and which produced the "Dissertation." It runs thus:--

    A child, in the early ages, was left alone by its mother in a
    house in which was a pig. A fire took place; the child escaped,
    the pig was burned. The child scratched and pottered among the
    ashes for its pig, which at last it found. All the provisions
    being burnt, the child was very hungry, and not yet having any
    artificial aids, such as golden ewers and damask napkins, began to
    lick or suck its fingers to free them from the ashes. A piece of
    fat adhered to one of his thumbs, which, being very savoury alike
    in taste and odour, he rightly judged to belong to the pig. Liking
    it much, he took it to his mother, just then appearing, who also
    tasted it, and both agreed that it was better than fruit or
    vegetables.

    They rebuilt the house, and the woman, after the fashion of good
    wives, who, says the chronicle, are now very scarce, put a pig
    into it, and was about to set it on fire, when an old man, one
    whom observation and reflection had made a philosopher, suggested
    that a pile of wood would do as well. (This must have been the
    father of economists.) The next pig was killed before it was
    roasted, and thus

      "From low beginnings,
      We date our winnings."

Manning, by the way, contributed articles on Chinese jests to the New Monthly Magazine in 1826.

A preliminary sketch of the second portion of this essay will be found in the letter to Coleridge
dated March 9, 1822. See also the letters to Mr. and Mrs. Bruton, January 6, 1823, to Mrs.
Collier, November 2, 1824, and to H. Dodwell, October 7, 1827, all in acknowledgment of pigs
sent to Lamb probably from an impulse found in this essay.

Later, Lamb abandoned the extreme position here taken. In the little essay entitled "Thoughts
on Presents of Game," 1833 (see Vol. I.), he says: "Time was, when Elia ... preferred to all
a roasted pig. But he disclaims all such green-sickness appetites in future."

Page 141, verse. "Ere sin could blight ..." From Coleridge's "Epitaph on an Infant."

Page 142, line 7 from foot. My good old aunt. Probably Aunt Hetty. See the essay on "Christ's
Hospital," for another story of her. The phrase, "Over London Bridge," unless an invention,
suggests that before this aunt went to live with the Lambs--probably not until they left the
Temple in 1792--she was living on the Surrey side. But it was possibly an Elian mystification.
Lamb had another aunt, but of her we know nothing.

Page 143, line 11 from foot. St. Omer's. The French Jesuit College. Lamb, it is unnecessary
to say, was never there.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 144. A BACHELOR'S COMPLAINT OF THE BEHAVIOUR OF MARRIED PEOPLE.

This is, by many years, the earliest of these essays. It was printed first in The Reflector,
No. IV., in 1811 or 1812. When Lamb brought his Works together, in 1818, he omitted it. In
September, 1822, it appeared in the London Magazine as one of the reprints of Lamb's earlier
writings, of which the "Confessions of a Drunkard" (see Vol. I.)was the first. In that number
also appeared the "Dissertation upon Roast Pig," thereby offering the reader an opportunity
of comparing Lamb's style in 1811 with his riper and richer style of 1822.

Page 147, line 6. "Love me, love my dog." See "Popular Fallacies," page 302, for an expansion
of this paragraph.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 150. ON SOME OF THE OLD ACTORS.

In February, 1822, Lamb began a series of three articles in the London Magazine on "The Old
Actors." The second was printed in April and the third in October of the same year. Afterwards,
in reprinting them in Elia, he rearranged them into the essays, "On Some of the Old Actors,"
"On the Artificial Comedy of the Last Century," and "On the Acting of Munden," omitting a considerable
portion altogether. The essay in its original tripart form will be found in the Appendix to
this volume.

In one of his theatrical notices in The Examiner (see Vol. I.) Lamb remarks, "Defunct merit
comes out upon us strangely," and certain critics believe that he praised some of the old actors
beyond their deserts. But no one can regret any such excesses.

Page 150, beginning. Twelfth Night. When recalling early playgoing days in "Old China," Lamb
refers again to this play--Viola in Illyria.

Page 150, foot. Whitfield, Packer, Benson, Burton, Phillimore and Barrymore. Whitfield, who
made his London début as Trueman in "George Barnwell" about 1776, was a useful man at Covent
Garden and Drury Lane.--John Hayman Packer (1730-1806), known in Lamb's time for his old men.
He acted at Drury Lane until 1805.--Benson, who married a sister of Mrs. Stephen Kemble, wrote
one or two plays, and was a good substitute in emergencies. He committed suicide during brain
fever in 1796.--Burton was a creditable utility actor at Covent Garden and Drury Lane.--Phillimore
filled small parts at Drury Lane.--Barrymore was of higher quality, a favourite character actor
both at Drury Lane and the Haymarket.

Page 151, line 6. Mrs. Jordan. Mrs. Jordan, born in 1762, ceased to act in England in 1814
and died in 1816. Nell was her famous part, in Coffey's "The Devil to Pay." Miss Hoyden is
in Vanbrugh's "Relapse." Lamb is referring to Viola in Act I., Scene 5, and Act II., Scene
4, of "Twelfth Night."

Page 151, line 8 from foot. Mrs. Powel. Mrs. Powel, previously known as Mrs. Farmer, and afterwards
Mrs. Renaud, was at Drury Lane from 1788 to 1811. She ended her London career in 1816 and died
in 1829.

Page 152, line 8. Of all the actors. The London Magazine article began at this point. Robert
Bensley (1738?-1817?) was at Drury Lane from 1775 to 1796, when he retired (alternating it
with the Haymarket). G.H. Boaden and George Colman both bear out Lamb's eulogy of Bensley as
Malvolio; but otherwise he is not the subject of much praise.

Page 152, line 15. Venetian incendiary. Pierre in Otway's "Venice Preserved." Lamb appended
the passage in a footnote in the London Magazine.

Page 153, line 12. Baddeley ... Parsons ... John Kemble. Robert Baddeley (1733-1794), the husband
of Mrs. Baddeley, and the original Moses in the "School for Scandal." William Parsons (1736-1795),
the original Crabtree in the "School for Scandal," and a favourite actor of Lamb's. John Philip
Kemble (1757-1823), who managed Drury Lane from 1788 to 1801.

Page 153, line 11 from foot. Of birth and feeling. In the London Magazine a footnote came here
(see page 316).

Page 153, line 6 from foot. Length of service. In the London Magazine a footnote came here
(see page 316).

Page 154, line 24. House of misrule. A long passage came here in the London Magazine (see page
317).

Page 154, line 8 from foot. Hero of La Mancha. Compare a similar analysis of Don Quixote's
character on page 264.

Page 155, line 23. Dodd. James William Dodd (1740?-1796).

Page 155, line 24. Lovegrove. William Lovegrove (1778-1816), famous in old comedy parts and
as Peter Fidget in "The Boarding House."

Page 155, foot. The gardens of Gray's Inn. These gardens are said to have been laid out under
the supervision of Bacon, who retained his chambers in the Inn until his death. As Dodd died
in 1796 and Lamb wrote in 1822, it would be fully twenty-six years and perhaps more since Lamb
met him.

Page 156, lines 26-29. Foppington, etc. Foppington in Vanbrugh's "Relapse," Tattle in Congreve's
"Love for Love," Backbite in Sheridan's "School for Scandal," Acres in "The Rivals" by the
same author, and Fribble in Garrick's "Miss in her Teens."

Page 157, line 13. If few can remember. The praise of Suett that follows is interpolated here
from the third part of Lamb's original essay (see page 332). Richard Suett, who had been a
Westminster chorister (not St. Paul's), left the stage in June, 1805, and died in July.

Page 157, footnote, Jem White. See note above.

Page 158, line 22. His friend Mathews. Charles Mathews (1776-1835), whom Lamb knew.

Page 159, line 1. Jack Bannister. John Bannister retired from the stage in 1815. He died in 1836.

Page 159, line 7. Children in the Wood. Morton's play, of which Lamb was so fond. It is mentioned
again in "Barbara S----" and "Old China."

Page 159, line 19. The elder Palmer. The first part of the essay is here resumed again. The
elder Palmer was John Palmer, who died on the stage, in 1798, when playing in "The Stranger."
Lamb's remarks tend to confuse him with Gentleman Palmer, who died before Lamb was born. Robert
Palmer, John's brother, died about 1805.

Page 159, line 22. Moody. John Moody (1727?-1812), famous as Teague in "The Committee."

Page 159, lines 31 to 36. The Duke's Servant, etc. The Duke's servant in Garrick's "High Life
below Stairs," Captain Absolute in Sheridan's "Rivals," Dick Amlet in Vanbrugh's "Confederacy."

Page 160, line 1. Young Wilding ... Joseph Surface. In Foote's "Liar" and Sheridan's "School
for Scandal."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 161. ON THE ARTIFICIAL COMEDY OF THE LAST CENTURY.

See note to the essay "On Some of the Old Actors."

See also "A Vision of Horns" (Vol. I.) for, as it seems to me, a whimsical extension to the
point of absurdity of the theory expressed in this essay--a theory which Lord Macaulay, in
his review of Leigh Hunt's edition of the Dramatic Works of Wycherley, Congreve, etc., in 1840,
opposed with characteristic vigour.

Hartley Coleridge, in a letter to Edward Moxon concerning Leigh Hunt's edition of Wycherley
and Congreve, happily remarked: "Nothing more or better can be said in defence of these writers
than what Lamb has said in his delightful essay ... which is, after all, rather an apology
for the audiences who applauded and himself who delighted in their plays, than for the plays
themselves.... But Lamb always took things by the better handle."

Page 163, line 16. The Fainalls, etc. Fainall in Congreve's "Way of the World," Mirabel in
Farquhar's "Inconstant," Dorimant in Etheredge's "Man of Mode," and Lady Touchstone in Congreve's
"Double Dealer."

Page 163, line 12 from foot. Angelica. In "Love for Love."

Page 164, line 26, etc. Sir Simon, etc. All these characters are in Wycherley's "Love in a Wood."

Page 166, line 21. King. Thomas King (1730-1805), at one time manager of Drury Lane, the original
Sir Peter Teazle, on May 8, 1777, the first night of the "School for Scandal," and the most
famous actor in the part until he retired in 1802.

Page 167, line 14. Miss Pope. Jane Pope (1742-1818), the original Mrs. Candour, left the stage
in 1808.

Page 167, line 15 from foot. Manager's comedy. Sheridan was manager of Drury Lane when the
"School for Scandal" was produced.

Page 167, same line. Miss Farren ... Mrs. Abingdon. Elizabeth Farren, afterwards Countess of
Derby, played Lady Teazle for the last time in 1797. Mrs. Abingdon had retired from Drury Lane
in 1782.

Page 167, line 10 from foot. Smith. "Gentleman" Smith took his farewell of the stage, as Charles
Surface, in 1788.

Page 168, end of essay. Fashionable tragedy. See page 328, line 21, for the continuation of
this essay in the London Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 168. ON THE ACTING OF MUNDEN.

See note to the essay "On Some of the Old Actors" above. Lamb lifted this essay into the London
Magazine from The Examiner, where it had appeared on November 7 and 8, 1819, with slight changes.

Page 168, title. Munden. Joseph Shepherd Munden (1758-1832) acted at Covent Garden practically
continuously from 1790 to 1811. He moved to Drury Lane in 1813, and remained there till the
end. His farewell performance was on May 31, 1824. We know Lamb to have met Munden from Raymond's
Memoirs of Elliston.

Page 168, line 2 of essay. Cockletop. In O'Keeffe's farce "Modern Antiques." This farce is
no longer played, although a skilful hand might, I think, make it attractive to our audiences.
Barry Cornwall in his memoir of Lamb has a passage concerning Munden as Cockletop, which helps
to support Lamb's praise. Support is not necessary, but useful; it is one of the misfortunes
of the actor's calling that he can live only in the praise of his critics.

Page 169, line 16. Edwin. This would probably be John Edwin the Elder (1749-1790). But John
Edwin the Younger (1768-1805) might have been meant. He was well known in Nipperkin, one of
Munden's parts.

Page 169, line 21. Farley...Knight...Liston. Charles Farley (1771-1859), mainly known as the
deviser of Covent Garden pantomimes; Edward Knight (1774-1826), an eccentric little comedian;
John Listen (1776?-1846), whose mock biography Lamb wrote (see Vol. I.).

Page 169, line 7 from foot. Sir Christopher Curry...Old Dornton. Sir Christopher in "Inkle
and Yarico," by the younger Colman; Old Dornton in Holcroft's "Road to Ruin."

Page 170, line 6. The Cobbler of Preston. A play, founded on "The Taming of the Shrew," by
Charles Johnson, written in 1716.

THE LAST ESSAYS OF ELIA

Page 171. PREFACE.

London Magazine, January, 1823, where it was entitled "A Character
of the late Elia. By a Friend." Signed Phil-Elia. Lamb did not reprint
it for ten years, and then with certain omissions. He just
    lived long enough (it was what he wished) to see his papers
    collected into a volume. The pages of the LONDON MAGAZINE will
    henceforth know him no more.

    "Exactly at twelve last night his queer spirit departed, and
    the bells of Saint Bride's rang him out with the old year. The
    mournful vibrations were caught in the dining-room of his friends
    T. and H.; and the company, assembled there to welcome in another
    First of January, checked their carousals in mid-mirth and were
    silent. Janus wept. The gentle P----r, in a whisper, signified his
    intention of devoting an Elegy; and Allan C----, nobly forgetful
    of his countrymen's wrongs, vowed a Memoir to his manes, full
    and friendly as a Tale of Lyddal-cross."

Elia had just been published when this paper appeared, and it was probably Lamb's serious intention
to stop the series. He was, however, prevailed to continue. T. and H. were Taylor & Hessey,
the owners of the London Magazine. Janus was Janus Weathercock, Thomas Griffiths Wainewright;
P----r was Bryan Waller Procter, or Barry Cornwall, who afterwards wrote Lamb's life, and Allan
C---- was Allan Cunningham, who called himself "Nalla" in the London Magazine. "The Twelve
Tales of Lyddal Cross" ran serially in the magazine in 1822.

Page 171, line 9 from foot. A former Essay. In the London Magazine "his third essay," referring
to "Christ's Hospital Five and Thirty Years Ago."

Page 172, line 7. My late friend. The opening sentences of this paragraph seem to have been
deliberately modelled, as indeed is the whole essay, upon Sterne's character of Yorick in Tristram
Shandy, Vol. I., Chapter XI.

Page 172, line 12 from foot. It was hit or miss with him.

Page 174, line 3. Some of his writings. In the London Magazine the essay did not end here.
It continued:--

    "He left property behind him. Of course, the little that is left
    (chiefly in India bonds) devolves upon his cousin Bridget. A few
    critical dissertations were found in his escritoire, which have
    been handed over to the Editor of this Magazine, in which it is
    to be hoped they will shortly appear, retaining his accustomed
    signature.

    "He has himself not obscurely hinted that his employment lay in a
    public office. The gentlemen in the Export department of the East
    India House will forgive me, if I acknowledge the readiness with
    which they assisted me in the retrieval of his few manuscripts.
    They pointed out in a most obliging manner the desk at which he
    had been planted for forty years; showed me ponderous tomes of
    figures, in his own remarkably neat hand, which, more properly
    than his few printed tracts, might be called his 'Works.' They
    seemed affectionate to his memory, and universally commended his
    expertness in book-keeping. It seems he was the inventor of some
    ledger, which should combine the precision and certainty of the
    Italian double entry (I think they called it) with the brevity
    and facility of some newer German system--but I am not able to
    appreciate the worth of the discovery. I have often heard him
    express a warm regard for his associates in office, and how
    fortunate he considered himself in having his lot thrown
    in amongst them. There is more sense, more discourse, more
    shrewdness, and even talent, among these clerks (he would say)
    than in twice the number of authors by profession that I have
    conversed with. He would brighten up sometimes upon the 'old
    days of the India House,' when he consorted with Woodroffe, and
    Wissett, and Peter Corbet (a descendant and worthy representative,
    bating the point of sanctity, of old facetious Bishop Corbet), and
    Hoole who translated Tasso, and Bartlemy Brown whose father (God
    assoil him therefore) modernised Walton--and sly warm-hearted old
    Jack Cole (King Cole they called him in those days), and Campe,
    and Fombelle--and a world of choice spirits, more than I can
    remember to name, who associated in those days with Jack Burrell
    (the bon vivant of the South Sea House), and little Eyton (said
    to be a facsimile of Pope--he was a miniature of a gentleman)
    that was cashier under him, and Dan Voight of the Custom House
    that left the famous library.

    "Well, Elia is gone--for aught I know, to be reunited with
    them--and these poor traces of his pen are all we have to show for
    it. How little survives of the wordiest authors! Of all they said
    or did in their lifetime, a few glittering words only! His Essays
    found some favourers, as they appeared separately; they shuffled
    their way in the crowd well enough singly; how they will read,
    now they are brought together, is a question for the publishers,
    who have thus ventured to draw out into one piece his 'weaved-up
    follies.'

    "PHIL-ELIA."

This passage calls for some remark. Cousin Bridget was, of course, Mary Lamb.--Lamb repeated
the joke about his Works in his "Autobiography" (see Vol. I.) and in "The Superannuated Man."--Some
record of certain of the old clerks mentioned by Lamb still remains; but I can find nothing
of the others. Whether or not Peter Corbet really derived from the Bishop we do not know, but
the facetious Bishop Corbet was Richard Corbet (1582-1635), Bishop of Oxford and Norwich, whose
conviviality was famous and who wrote the "Fairies' Farewell." John Hoole (1727-1803), who
translated Tasso and wrote the life of Scott of Amwell and a number of other works, was principal
auditor at the end of his time at the India House. He retired about 1785, when Lamb was ten
years old. Writing to Coleridge on January 5, 1797, Lamb speaks of Hoole as "the great boast
and ornament of the India House," and says that he found Tasso, in Hoole's translation, "more
vapid than smallest small beer sun-vinegared." The moderniser of Walton would be Moses Browne
(1704-1787), whose edition of The Complete Angler, 1750, was undertaken at the suggestion of
Dr. Johnson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 174. BLAKESMOOR IN H----SHIRE

London Magazine, September, 1824.

With this essay Lamb made his reappearance in the magazine, after eight months' absence.

By Blakesmoor Lamb meant Blakesware, the manor-house near Widford, in Hertfordshire, where
his grandmother, Mary Field, had been housekeeper for many years. Compare the essay "Dream-Children."

Blakesware, which was built by Sir Francis Leventhorpe about 1640, became the property of the
Plumers in 1683, being then purchased by John Plumer, of New Windsor, who died in 1718. It
descended to William Plumer, M.P. for Yarmouth, in the Isle of Wight, and afterwards for Hertfordshire,
who died in 1767, and was presumably Mrs. Field's first employer. His widow and the younger
children remained at Blakesware until Mrs. Plumer's death in 1778, but the eldest son, William
Plumer, moved at once to Gilston, a few miles east of Blakesware, a mansion which for a long
time was confused with Blakesware by commentators on Lamb. This William Plumer, who was M.P.
for Lewes, for Hertfordshire, and finally for Higham Ferrers, and a governor of Christ's Hospital,
kept up Blakesware after his mother's death in 1778 (when Lamb was three) exactly as before,
but it remained empty save for Mrs. Field and the servants under her. Mrs. Field became thus
practically mistress of it, as Lamb says in "Dream-Children." Hence the increased happiness
of her grandchildren when they visited her. Mrs. Field died in 1792, when Lamb was seventeen.
William Plumer died in 1822, aged eighty-six, having apparently arranged with his widow, who
continued at Gilston, that Blakesware should be pulled down--a work of demolition which at
once was begun. This lady, née Jane Hamilton, afterwards married a Mr. Lewin, and then, in
1828, Robert Ward (1765-1846), author of Tremaine and other novels, who took the name of Plumer-Ward,
and may be read of, together with curious details of Gilston House, in P.G. Patmore's My Friends
and Acquaintances.

Nothing now remains but a few mounds, beneath which are bricks and rubble. The present house
is a quarter of a mile behind the old one, high on the hill. In Lamb's day this hillside was
known as the Wilderness, and where now is turf were formal walks with clipped yew hedges and
here and there a statue. The stream of which he speaks is the Ashe, running close by the walls
of the old house. Standing there now, among the trees which mark its site, it is easy to reconstruct
the past as described in the essay.

The Twelve Cæsars, the tapestry and other more notable possessions of Blakesware, although
moved to Gilston on the demolition of Blakesware, are there no longer, and their present destination
is a mystery. Gilston was pulled down in 1853, following upon a sale by auction, when all its
treasures were dispersed. Some, I have discovered, were bought by the enterprising tenant of
the old Rye House Inn at Broxbourne, but absolute identification of anything now seems impossible.

Blakesware is again described in Mrs. Leicester's School, in Mary Lamb's story of "The Young
Mahometan." There the Twelve Cæsars are spoken of as hanging on the wall, as if they were medallions;
but Mr. E.S. Bowlby tells me that he perfectly remembers the Twelve Cæsars at Gilston, about
1850, as busts, just as Lamb says. In "Rosamund Gray" (see Vol. I.) Lamb describes the Blakesware
wilderness. See also notes to "The Last Peach," Vol. I., to "Dream-Children" in this volume,
and to "Going or Gone," Vol. IV.

Lamb has other references to Blakesware and the irrevocability of his happiness there as a
child, in his letters. Ev'n now he is whetting one of his smallest razors to clean wipe me
out, perhaps. Well!"

Writing to Barton in August, 1824, concerning the present essay, Lamb describes it as a "futile
effort ... 'wrung from me with slow pain'."

Page 175, line 15 from foot. Mrs. Battle. There was a haunted room at Blakesware, but the suggestion
that the famous Mrs. Battle died in it was probably due to a sudden whimsical impulse. Lamb
states in "Dream-Children" that Mrs. Field occupied this room.

Page 177, line 22. The hills of Lincoln. See Lamb's sonnet "On the Family Name," Vol. IV. Lamb's
father came from Lincoln.

Page 177, line 11 from foot. Those old W----s. Lamb thus disguised the name of Plumer. He could
not have meant Wards, for Robert Ward did not marry William Plumer's widow till four years
after this essay was printed.

Page 178, line 2. My Alice. See notes to "Dream-Children."

Page 178, line 2. Mildred Elia, I take it. Alter these words, in the London Magazine, came
this passage:--

    "From her, and from my passion for her--for I first learned love
    from a picture--Bridget took the hint of those pretty whimsical
    lines, which thou mayst see, if haply thou hast never seen them,
    Reader, in the margin.[1] But my Mildred grew not old, like the
    imaginery Helen."

This ballad, written in gentle ridicule of Lamb's affection for the Blakesware portrait, and
Mary Lamb's first known poem, was printed in the John Woodvil volume, 1802, and in the Works, 1818.

  "High-born Helen, proudly telling
    Stories of thy cold disdain;
  I starve, I die, now you comply,
    And I no longer can complain. POOR RELATIONS.

London Magazine, May, 1823.

Page 179, line 10. A pound of sweet. After these words, in the London Magazine, came one more
descriptive clause--"the bore par excellence."

Page 181, line 4, Richard Amlet, Esq. In "The Confederacy" by Sir John Vanbrugh--a favourite
part of John Palmer's (see the essay "On Some of the Old Actors").

Page 181, line 16. Poor W----. In the Key Lamb identifies W---- with Favell, who "left Cambridge
because he was asham'd of his father, who was a house-painter there." Favell has already been
mentioned in the essay on "Christ's Hospital."

Page 183, line 22. At Lincoln. The Lambs, as we have seen, came from Lincolnshire. The old
feud between the Above and Below Boys seems now to have abated, but a social gulf between the
two divisions of the city remains.

Page 184, line 11 from foot. John Billet. Probably not the real name. Lamb gives the innkeeper
at Widford, in "Rosamund Gray," the name of Billet, when it was really Clemitson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 185. STAGE ILLUSION.

London Magazine, August, 1825, where it was entitled "Imperfect Dramatic Illusion."

This was, I think, Lamb's last contribution to the London, which had been growing steadily
heavier and less hospitable to gaiety. Some one, however, contributed to it from time to time
papers more or less in the Elian manner. There had been one in July, 1825, on the Widow Fairlop,
a lady akin to "The Gentle Giantess." In September, 1825, was an essay entitled "The Sorrows
of ** ***" (an ass), which might, both from style and sympathy, be almost Lamb's; but was,
I think, by another hand. And in January, 1826, there was an article on whist, with quotations
from Mrs. Battle, deliberately derived from her creator. These and other essays are printed
in Mr. Bertram Dobell's Sidelights on Charles Lamb, 1903, with interesting comments.

The present essay to some extent continues the subject treated of in "The Artificial Comedy,"
but it may be taken also as containing some of the matter of the promised continuation of the
essay "On the Tragedies of Shakspeare," which was to deal with the comic characters of that
dramatist (see Vol. I.).

Page 185, line 15 from foot. Jack Bannister. See notes to the essay on "The Old Actors." His
greatest parts were not those of cowards; but his Bob Acres was justly famous. Sir Anthony
Absolute and Tony Lumpkin were perhaps his chief triumphs. He left the stage in 1815.

Page 186, line 24. Gatty. Henry Gattie (1774-1844), famous for old-man parts, notably Monsieur
Morbleu in Moncrieffs "Monsieur Tonson." He was also the best Dr. Caius, in "The Merry Wives
of Windsor," of his time. He left the stage in 1833, and settled down as a tobacconist and
raconteur at Oxford.

Page 186, line 30. Mr. Emery. John Emery (1777-1822), the best impersonator of countrymen in
his day. Zekiel Homespun in Colman's "Heir at Law" was one of his great parts. Tyke was in
Morton's "School of Reform," produced in 1805, and no one has ever played it so well. He also
played Caliban with success.

Page 187, line 4 from foot. A very judicious actor. This actor I have not identified. Benjamin
Wrench (1778-1843) was a dashing comedian, a Wyndham of his day. In "Free and Easy" he played
Sir John Freeman.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 188. To THE SHADE OF ELLISTON.

Englishman's Magazine, August, 1831, where it formed, with the following essay, one article,
under the title "Reminiscences of Elliston."

Robert William Elliston (1774-1831), actor and manager, famous for his stage lovers, both in
comedy and tragedy. His Charles Surface was said to be unequalled, and both in Hotspur and
Hamlet he was great. His last performance was in June, 1831, a very short time before his death.

Page 189, line 7. Thin ghosts. In the London Magazine the passage ran:--

    "Thin ghosts of Figurantes (never plump on earth) admire, while
    with uplifted toe retributive you inflict vengeance incorporeal
    upon the shadowy rear of obnoxious author, just arrived:--

                   "'what seem'd his tail
      The likeness of a kingly kick had on.
          *       *       *       *       *
      "'Yet soon he heals: for spirits, that live throughout
      Vital in every part, not as frail man
      In entrails, head, or heart, liver or veins,
      Can in the liquid texture mortal wound
      Receive no more, than can the liquid air,
      All heart they live, all head, all eye.'"

Page 189, line 11 from foot. À la Foppington. In Vanbrugh's "Relapse."

In the Englishman's Magazine the article ended, after "Plaudito, et Valeto," with: "Thy friend
upon Earth, though thou did'st connive at his d----n."

The article was signed Mr. H., the point being that Elliston had played Mr. H. at Drury Lane
in Lamb's unlucky farce of that name in 1806.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 190. ELLISTONIANA.

See note at the head of "To the Shade of Elliston," above.

Page 190, line 3 of essay. My first introduction. This paragraph was a footnote in the Englishman's
Magazine. Elliston, according to the Memoirs of him by George Raymond, which have Lamb's phrase,
"Joyousest of once embodied spirits," for motto, opened a circulating library at Leamington
in the name of his sons William and Henry, and served there himself at times.

Possibly Lamb was visiting Charles Chambers at Leamington when he saw Elliston. That he did
see him there we know from Raymond's book, where an amusing occurrence is described, illustrating
Munden's frugality. It seems that Lamb, Elliston and Munden drove together to Warwick Castle.
On returning Munden stopped the carriage just outside Leamington, on the pretext that he had
to make a call on an old friend--a regular device, as Elliston explained, to avoid being present
at the inn when the hire of the carriage was paid.

Page 191, line 11. Wrench. See notes to "The Old Actors." Wrench succeeded Elliston at Bath,
and played in the same parts, and with something of the same manner.

Page 191, line 11 from foot. Appelles ... G.D. Apelles, painter to Alexander the Great, was
said to let no day pass without experimenting with his pencil. G.D. was George Dyer, whom we
first met in "Oxford in the Vacation."

Page 192, line 6. Ranger. In Hoadley's "Suspicious Husband," one of Elliston's great parts.

Page 192, line 17 from foot. Cibber. Colley Cibber (1671-1757), the actor, who was a very vain
man, created the part of Foppington in 1697--his first great success.

Page 192, last line. St. Dunstan's ... punctual giants. Old St. Dunstan Church, in Fleet Street,
had huge figures which struck the hours, and which disappeared with the church, pulled down
to make room for the present one some time before 1831. They are mentioned in Emily Barton's
story in Mrs. Leicester's School (see Vol. III.). Moxon records that Lamb shed tears when the
figures were taken away.

Page 193, line 6. Drury Lane. Drury Lane opened, under Elliston's management, on October 4,
1819, with "Wild Oats," in which he played Rover. He left the theatre, a bankrupt, in 1826.

Page 193, line 19. The ... Olympic. Lamb is wrong in his dates. Elliston's tenancy of the Olympic
preceded his reign at Drury Lane. It was to the Surrey that he retired after the Drury Lane
period, producing there Jerrold's "Black-Eyed Susan" in 1829.

Page 193, line 12 from foot. Sir A---- C----. Sir Anthony Carlisle (see note to "A Quakers'
Meeting").

Page 194, line 7. A Vestris. Madame Vestris (1797-1856), the great comédienne, who was one
of Elliston's stars at Drury Lane.

Page 195, line 6. Latinity. Elliston was buried in St. John's Church, Waterloo Road, and a
marble slab with a Latin inscription by Nicholas Torre, his son-in-law, is on the wall. Elliston
was the nephew of Dr. Elliston, Master of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, who sent him to
St. Paul's School--not, however, that founded by Colet--but to St. Paul's School, Covent Garden.
He was intended for the Church.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 195. DETACHED THOUGHTS ON BOOKS AND READING.

London Magazine, July, 1822, where, at the end, were the words, "To be continued;" but Lamb
did not return to the topic.

For some curious reason Lamb passed over this essay when collecting Elia for the press. It
was not republished till 1833, in the Last Essays.

Page 195, motto. The Relapse. The comedy by Sir John Vanbrugh. Lamb liked this quotation. He
uses it in his letter about William Wordsworth, junior, to Dorothy Wordsworth, November 25,
1819; and again in his "Reminiscence of Sir Jeffery Dunstan" (see Vol. I.).

Page 195, foot. I can read any thing which I call a book. Writing to Wordsworth in August,
1815, Lamb says: "What any man can write, surely I may read."

Page 195, last line. Pocket Books. In the London Magazine Lamb added in parenthesis "the literary
excepted," the reference being to the Literary Pocket Book which Leigh Hunt brought out annually
from 1819 to 1822.

Page 196, line 2. Hume ... Jenyns. Hume would be David Hume (1711-1776), the philosopher and
historian of England; Edward Gibbon (1737-1794), historian of Rome; William Robertson, D.D.
(1721-1793), historian of America, Charles V., Scotland and India; James Beattie (1735-1803),
author of "The Minstrel" and a number of essays, who had, however, one recommendation to Lamb,
of which Lamb may have been unaware--he loved Vincent Bourne's poems and was one of the first
to praise them; and Soame Jenyns (1704-1787), author of The Art of Dancing, and the Inquiry
into Evil which Johnson reviewed so mercilessly. It is stated in Moore's Diary, according to
Procter, that Lamb "excluded from his library Robertson, Gibbon and Hume, and made instead
a collection of the works of the heroes of The Dunciad."

Page 196, line 14. Population Essay. That was the day of population essays. Malthus's Essay
on Population, 1798, had led to a number of replies.

Page 196, line 22. My ragged veterans. Crabb Robinson recorded in his diary that Lamb had the
"finest collection of shabby books" he ever saw; "such a number of first-rate works in very
bad condition is, I think, nowhere to be found." Leigh Hunt stated in his essay on "My Books"
in The Literary Examiner, July 5, 1823, that Lamb's library had

    an handsome contempt for appearance.

It is in the same essay that Leigh Hunt mentions that he once saw Lamb kiss an old folio--Chapman's
Homer--the work he paraphrased for children under the title The Adventures of Ulysses.

Page 197, line 15. Life of the Duke of Newcastle. Lamb's copy, a folio containing also the
"Philosophical Letters," is in America.

Page 197, line 20. Sydney, Bishop Taylor, Milton... I cannot say where are Lamb's copies of
Sidney and Fuller; but the British Museum has his Milton, rich in MS. notes, a two-volume edition,
1751. The Taylor, which Lamb acquired in 1798, is the 1678 folio Sermons. I cannot say where
it now is.

Page 197, line 26. Shakspeare. Lamb's Shakespeare was not sold at the sale of his library;
only a copy of the Poems, 12mo, 1714. His annotated copy of the Poems, 1640, is in America.
There is a reference to one of Rowe's plates in the essay "My First Play." The Shakespeare
gallery engravings were the costly series of illustrations to Shakespeare commissioned by John
Boydell (1719-1804), Lord Mayor of London in 1790. The pictures were exhibited in the Shakespeare
Gallery in Pall Mall, and the engravings were published in 1802.

After the word "Shakespeare," in the London Magazine, came the sentence: "You cannot make a
pet book of an author whom everybody reads."

Page 197, line 7 from foot. Beaumont and Fletcher. See note to "The Two Races of Men" for an
account of Lamb's copy, now in the British Museum.

Page 197, line 5 from foot. No sympathy with them. After these words, in the London Magazine,
came, "nor with Mr. Gifford's Ben Jonson." This edition by Lamb's old enemy, William Gifford,
editor of the Quarterly, was published in 1816. Lamb's copy of Ben Jonson was dated 1692, folio.
It is now in America, I believe.

Page 197, foot. The reprint of the Anatomy of Melancholy. This reprint was, I think, published
in 1800, in two volumes, marked ninth edition. Lamb's copy was dated 1621, quarto. I do not
know where it now is.

Page 198, line 4. Malone. This was Edmund Malone (1741-1812), the critic and editor of Shakespeare,
who in 1793 persuaded the Vicar of Stratford-on-Avon to whitewash the coloured bust of the
poet in the chancel. A Gentleman's Magazine epigrammatist, sharing Lamb's view, wrote:--

  Stranger, to whom this monument is shown,
  Invoke the poet's curse upon Malone;
  Whose meddling zeal his barbarous taste betrays,
  And daubs his tombstone, as he mars his plays.

Lamb has been less than fair to Malone. To defend his action in the matter of the bust of Shakespeare
is impossible, except by saying that he acted in good faith and according to the fashion of
his time. But he did great service to the fame of Shakespeare and thus to English literature,
and was fearless and shrewd in his denunciation of the impostor Ireland.

Page 198, line 26. The Fairy Queen. Lamb's copy was a folio, 1617, 12, 17, 13. Against Canto
XI., Stanza 32, he has written: "Dear Venom, this is the stave I wot of. I will maintain it
against any in the book."

Page 199, line 14. Nando's. A coffee-house in Fleet Street, at the east corner of Inner Temple
Lane, and thus at one time close to Lamb's rooms.

Page 199, line 16. "The Chronicle is in hand, Sir." In the London Magazine the following paragraph
was here inserted:--

    "As in these little Diurnals I generally skip the Foreign News,
    the Debates--and the Politics--I find the Morning Herald by far
    the most entertaining of them. It is an agreeable miscellany,
    rather than a newspaper."

The Morning Herald, under Alexander Chalmers, had given more attention to social gossip than
to affairs of State; but under Thomas Wright it suddenly, about the time of Lamb's essay, became
politically serious and left aristocratic matters to the Morning Post.

Page 199, line 20. Town and Country Magazine. This magazine flourished between 1769 and 1792.

Page 199, line 26. Poor Tobin. Possibly John Tobin (1770-1804), the playwright, though I think
not. More probably the Tobin mentioned in Lamb's letter to Wordsworth about "Mr. H." in June,
1806 (two years after John Tobin's death), to whom Lamb read the manager's letter concerning
the farce. This would be James, John Tobin's brother.

Page 200, line 13. The five points. After these words came, in the London Magazine, the following
paragraph:--

    "I was once amused--there is a pleasure in affecting
    affectation--at the indignation of a crowd that was justling in
    with me at the pit-door of Covent Garden theatre, to have a sight
    of Master Betty--then at once in his dawn and his meridian--in
    Hamlet. I had been invited quite unexpectedly to join a party,
    whom I met near the door of the playhouse, and I happened to have
    in my hand a large octavo of Johnson and Steevens's Shakspeare,
    which, the time not admitting of my carrying it home, of course
    went with me to the theatre. Just in the very heat and pressure
    of the doors opening--the rush, as they term it--I deliberately
    held the volume over my head, open at the scene in which the young
    Roscius had been most cried up, and quietly read by the lamplight.
    The clamour became universal. 'The affectation of the fellow,'
    cried one. 'Look at that gentleman reading, papa,' squeaked a
    young lady, who in her admiration of the novelty almost forgot her
    fears. I read on. 'He ought to have his book knocked out of his
    hand,' exclaimed a pursy cit, whose arms were too fast pinioned to
    his side to suffer him to execute his kind intention. Still I read
    on--and, till the time came to pay my money, kept as unmoved,
    as Saint Antony at his Holy Offices, with the satyrs, apes, and
    hobgoblins, mopping, and making mouths at him, in the picture,
    while the good man sits undisturbed at the sight, as if he were
    sole tenant of the desart.--The individual rabble (I recognised
    more than one of their ugly faces) had damned a slight piece of
    mine but a few nights before, and I was determined the culprits
    should not a second time put me out of countenance." Pitt, indeed, once adjourned the House in order that his
Hamlet might be witnessed. His most cried-up scenes in "Hamlet" were
the "To be or not to be" soliloquy, and the fencing scene before the
king and his mother. The piece of Lamb's own which had been hissed
was, of course, "Mr. H.," produced on December 10, 1806; but very
likely he added this reference as a symmetrical afterthought, for he
would probably have visited Master Betty much earlier in his career,
that phenomenon's first appearance at Covent Garden being two years
before the advent of the ill-fated Hogsflesh.

Page 200, line 22. Martin B----. Martin Charles Burney, son of Admiral Burney, and a lifelong
friend of the Lambs--to whom Lamb dedicated the prose part of his Works in 1818 (see Vol. IV.).

Page 200, line 28. A quaint poetess. Mary Lamb. The poem is in Poetry for Children, 1809 (see
Vol. III. of this edition). In line 17 the word "then" has been inserted by Lamb. The punctuation
also differs from that of the Poetry for Children.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 201. THE OLD MARGATE HOY.

London Magazine, July, 1823. This, like others of Lamb's essays, was translated into French
and published in the Revue Britannique in 1833. It was prefaced by the remark: "L'auteur de
cette délicieuse esquisse est Charles Lamb, connu sous le nom d'Eliah."

Page 201, beginning. I have said so before. See "Oxford in the Vacation."

Page 201, line 5 of essay. My beloved Thames. Lamb describes a riparian holiday at and about
Richmond in a letter to Robert Lloyd in 1804.

Page 201, line 8 of essay. Worthing... There is no record of the Lambs' sojourn at Worthing
or Eastbourne. They were at Brighton in 1817, and Mary Lamb at any rate enjoyed walking on
the Downs there; in a letter to Miss Wordsworth of November 21, 1817, she described them as
little mountains, almost as good as Westmoreland scenery. They were at Hastings--at 13 Standgate
Street--in 1823 (see Lamb's letters to Bernard Barton, July 10, 1823, to Hood, August 10, 1824,
and to Dibdin, June, 1826). The only evidence that we have of Lamb knowing Worthing is his
"Mr. H.". That play turns upon the name Hogsflesh, afterwards changed to Bacon. The two chief
innkeepers at Worthing at the end of the eighteenth century and the beginning of its prosperity
were named Hogsflesh and Bacon, and there was a rhyme concerning them which was well known
(see notes to "Mr. H." in Vol. IV.).

Page 201, line 11 of essay. Many years ago. A little later Lamb says he was then fifteen. This
would make the year 1790. It was probably on this visit to Margate that Lamb conceived the
idea of his sonnet, "O, I could laugh," which Coleridge admired so much (see Vol. IV.).

Page 201, line 17 of essay. Thou old Margate Hoy. This old sailing-boat gave way to a steam-boat,
the Thames, some time after 1815. The Thames, launched in 1815, was the first true steam-boat
the river had seen. The old hoy, or lighter, was probably sloop rigged.

Page 202, foot. Our enemies. Lamb refers here to the attacks of Blackwood's Magazine on the
Cockneys, among whom he himself had been included. In the London Magazine he had written "unfledged"
for "unseasoned."

Page 206, line 14. Gebir. Gebir, by Walter Savage Landor (1775-1864), who was a fortnight older
than Lamb, and who afterwards came to know him personally, was published in 1798.

Page 206, line 16. This detestable Cinque Port. A letter from Mary Lamb to Randal Norris, concerning
this, or another, visit to Hastings, says: "We eat turbot, and we drink smuggled Hollands,
and we walk up hill and down hill all day long." Lamb, in a letter to Barton, admitted a benefit:
"I abused Hastings, but learned its value."

Page 208, line 5. Lothbury. Probably in recollection of Wordsworth's "Reverie of Poor Susan,"
which Lamb greatly liked.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 208. THE CONVALESCENT.

London Magazine, July, 1825.

We learn from the Letters that Lamb had a severe nervous breakdown in the early summer of 1825
after liberation from the India House. Indeed, his health was never sound for long together
after he became a free man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 212. SANITY OF TRUE GENIUS.

New Monthly Magazine, May, 1826, where it appeared as one of the Popular Fallacies under the
title, "That great Wit is allied to Madness;" beginning: "So far from this being true, the
greatest wits will ever be found to be the sanest writers..." and so forth. Compare the essay
"On the Tragedies of Shakespeare," Vol.

Page 213, line 14. Kent ... Flavius. Lamb was always greatly impressed by the character of
Kent (see his essay on "Hogarth," Vol. I.; his "Table Talk," Vol. I.; and his versions, in
the Tales from Shakespear, of "King Lear" and "Timon," Vol. III.).

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 215. CAPTAIN JACKSON.

London Magazine, November, 1824.

No one has yet been able to identify Captain Jackson. The suggestion has been made that Randal
Norris sat for the picture; but the circumstance that Lamb, in the first edition of the Last
Essays, included "A Death-Bed," with a differing portrait of Randal Norris therein, is, I think,
good evidence against this theory. Perhaps the captain was one of the imaginary characters
which Lamb sent out every now and then, as he told Bernard Barton (in the letter of March 20,
1826), "to exercise the ingenuity of his friends;" although his reality seems overpowering.

Apart from his own interest, the captain is noteworthy in constituting, with Ralph Bigod (see
page 27), a sketch (possibly unknown to Dickens) for Wilkins Micawber.

Page 217, line 22. Glover ... Leonidas. Richard Glover (1712-1785), the poet, author of Leonidas,
1737. I cannot find that he ever lived at Westbourne Green.

Page 218, foot. The old ballad. The old ballad "Waly, Waly." This was among the poems copied
by Lamb into Miss Isola's Extract Book.

Page 219, line 8. Tibbs, and Bobadil. Beau Tibbs in Goldsmith's "Citizen of the World," and
Bobadil in Ben Jonson's "Every Man in His Humour."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 219. THE SUPERANNUATED MAN.

London Magazine, May, 1825.

Except that Lamb has disguised his real employment, this essay is practically a record of fact.
After thirty-three years of service at the East India House he went home "for ever" on Tuesday,
March 29, 1825, with a pension of £441, or two-thirds of his regular salary, less a small annual
deduction as a provision for his sister. Lamb's letters to Wordsworth, April 6, 1825, to Barton,
the same date, and to Miss Hutchinson, a little later, all tell the story.

    "I would not serve another 7 years for seven hundred thousand
    pound."

To Miss Hutchinson Lamb said; "I would not go back to my prison for seven years longer for
£10000 a year."

In the London Magazine the essay was divided into two parts, with the two quotations now at
the head apportioned each to one part. Part II. began at "A fortnight has passed," on page
224. The essay was signed "J.D.," whose address was given as "Beaufort-terrace, Regent-street;
late of Ironmonger-court, Fenchurch-street."

Page 220, line 3. Recreation. At "recreation," in the London Magazine, came the footnote:--

    "Our ancestors, the noble old Puritans of Cromwell's day,
    could distinguish between a day of religious rest and a day of
    recreation; and while they exacted a rigorous abstinence from all
    amusements (even to the walking out of nursery maids with their
    little charges in the fields) upon the Sabbath; in the lieu of the
    superstitious observance of the Saints days, which they abrogated,
    they humanely gave to the apprentices, and poorer sort of people,
    every alternate Thursday for a day of entire sport and recreation.
    A strain of piety and policy to be commended above the profane
    mockery of the Stuarts and their Book of Sports."

Lamb had said the same thing to Barton in a letter in the spring, 1824, referring there to
"Southey's book" as his authority--this being The Book of the Church, 1824.

Page 220, line 25. Native ... Hertfordshire. This was a slight exaggeration. Lamb was London
born and bred. But Hertfordshire was his mother and grandmother's county, and all his love
of the open air was centred there (see the essay on "Mackery End").

Page 221, line 1. My health. Lamb had really been seriously unwell for some time, as the Letters
tell us.

Page 221, line 6. I was fifty. Lamb was fifty on February 10, 1825.

Page 231, line 7. I had grown to my desk. In his first letter to Barton (September 11, 1822)
Lamb wrote: "I am like you a prisoner to the desk. I have been chained to that galley thirty
years, a long shot. I have almost grown to the wood." Again, to Wordsworth: "I sit like Philomel
all day (but not singing) with my breast against this thorn of a Desk."

Page 222, line 7. Boldero, Merryweather ... Feigned names of course. It was Boldero that Lamb
once pretended was Leigh Hunt's true name. And in his fictitious biography of Liston (Vol.
I.) Liston's mother was said to have been a Miss Merryweather. In Lamb's early city days there
was a banking firm in Cornhill, called Boldero, Adey, Lushington & Boldero.

Page 222, line 12 from foot. I could walk it away.

And again, writing to Southey after the emancipation, he says (August, 1825): "Mary walks her
twelve miles a day some days, and I twenty on others. 'Tis all holiday with me now, you know."

Page 224, line 9. Ch----. John Chambers, son of the Rev. Thomas Chambers, Vicar of Radway-Edgehill,
Warwickshire, and an old Christ's Hospitaller, to whom Lamb wrote the famous letter on India
House society, printed in the Letters, Canon Ainger's edition, under December, 1818. John Chambers
lived until 1872, and had many stories of Lamb.

Page 224, line 9. Do----. Probably Henry Dodwell, to whom Lamb wrote the letters of July, 1816,
from Calne, and that of October 7, 1827, thanking him for a gift of a sucking pig. But there
seems (see the letter to Chambers above referred to) to have been also a clerk named Dowley.
It was Dodwell who annoyed Lamb by reading The Times till twelve o'clock every morning.

Page 224, line 10. Pl----. According to the late H.G. Bohn's notes on Chambers' letter, this
was W.D. Plumley.

Page 224, line 18. My "works." See note to the preface to the Last Essays of Elia. The old
India House ledgers of Lamb's day are no longer in existence, but a copy of Booth's Tables
of Interest is preserved, with some mock notices from the press on the fly-leaves in Lamb's
hand. Lamb's portrait by Meyer was bought for the India Office in 1902.

Page 224, line 12 from foot. My own master. As a matter of fact Lamb found the time rather
heavy on his hands now and then; and he took to searching for beauties in the Garrick plays
in the British Museum as a refuge. The Elgin marbles were moved there in 1816.

Page 225, line 16 from foot. And what is it all for? At these words, in the London Magazine,
came the passage:--

    "I recite those verses of Cowley, which so mightily agree with my
    constitution.

    "Or I repeat my own lines, written in my Clerk state:--

      "Who first invented work--and bound the free
      And holyday-rejoicing spirit down
      To the ever-haunting importunity
      Of business, in the green fields, and the town--
      To plough, loom, anvil, spade--and oh! most sad,
      To this dry drudgery of the desk's dead wood?
      Who but the Being unblest, alien from good,
      Sabbathless Satan! he who his unglad
      Task ever plies 'mid rotatory burnings,
      That round and round incalculably reel--
      For wrath divine hath made him like a wheel--
      In that red realm from whence are no returnings;
      Where toiling, and turmoiling, ever and aye
      He, and his thoughts, keep pensive worky-day!

    "O this divine Leisure!--Reader, if thou art furnished with the
    Old Series of the London, turn incontinently to the third volume
    (page 367), and you will see my present condition there touched in
    a 'Wish' by a daintier pen than I can pretend to. I subscribe to
    that Sonnet toto corde."

The sonnet referred to, beginning--

  They talk of time and of time's galling yoke,

will be found quoted above, in the notes to "New Year's Eve." It was, of course, by Lamb himself.
To the other sonnet he gave the title "Work" (see Vol. IV.). Cowley's lines are from "The Complaint."

Page 225, line 14 from foot. NOTHING-TO-DO. Lamb wrote to Barton in 1827: "Positively, the
best thing a man can have to do, is nothing, and next to that perhaps--good works."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 226. THE GENTEEL STYLE IN WRITING. Nothing," &c.

Page 226, beginning. My Lord Shaftesbury, Anthony Ashley Cooper, third Earl of Shaftesbury
(1671-1713), the grandson of the great statesman, and the author of the Characteristicks of
Men, Manners, Opinions and Times, 1711, and other less known works. In the essay "Detached
Thoughts on Books and Reading" Lamb says, "Shaftesbury is not too genteel for me."

Page 226, beginning. Sir William Temple. Sir William Temple (1628-1699), diplomatist and man
of letters, the patron of Swift, and the husband of the letter-writing Dorothy Osborne. His
first diplomatic mission was in 1665, to Christopher Bernard von Glialen, the prince-bishop
of Munster, who grew the northern cherries (see page 228). Afterwards he was accredited to
Brussels and the Hague, and subsequently became English Ambassador at the Hague. He was recalled
in 1670, and spent the time between then and 1674, when he returned, in adding to his garden
at Sheen, near Richmond, and in literary pursuits. He re-entered active political life in 1674,
but retired again in 1680, and moved to an estate near Farnham; which he named Moor Park, laid
out in the Dutch style, and made famous for its wall fruit. Hither Swift came, as amanuensis,
in 1689, and he was there, with intervals of absence, in 1699, when Temple died, "and with
him," Swift wrote in his Diary, "all that was good and amiable among men." He was buried in
Westminster Abbey, but his heart, by his special wish, was placed in a silver casket under
the sun-dial at Moor Park, near his favourite window seat.

Temple's essays, under the title of Miscellanea, were published in 1680 and 1692; his works,
in several volumes, between 1700 and 1709. The best-known essay is that on "Ancient and Modern
Learning," but Lamb refers also to those "On Health and Long Life," "Of the Cure of the Gout,"
"Of Gardening." The quotation on page 228 does not exactly end Temple's garden essay, as Lamb
says. Lamb has slightly altered Temple's punctuation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 230. BARBARA S----.

London Magazine, April, 1825.

This little story exhibits, perhaps better than anything that Lamb wrote, his curious gift
of blending fact and fancy, of building upon a foundation of reality a structure of whimsicality
and invention. In the late Charles Kent's edition of Lamb's works is printed a letter from
Miss Kelly, the actress, and a friend of the Lambs, in which the true story is told; for it
was she, as indeed Lamb admitted to Wordsworth in a letter in 1825, who told him the incident--"beautifully,"
he says elsewhere.

Miss Kelly wrote, in 1875:--

    I perfectly remember relating an incident of my childhood to
    Charles Lamb and his dear sister, and I have not the least doubt
    that the intense interest he seemed to take in the recital,
    induced him to adopt it as the principal feature in his beautiful
    story of "Barbara S----." Much, however, as I venerate the
    wonderful powers of Charles Lamb as a writer--grateful as I ever
    must feel to have enjoyed for so many years the friendship of
    himself and his dear sister, and proudly honoured as I am by the
    two exquisite sonnets he has given to the world as tributary to my
    humble talent, I have never been able thoroughly to appreciate the
    extraordinary skill with which he has, in the construction of his
    story, desired and contrived so to mystify and characterize
    the events, as to keep me out of sight, and render it utterly
    impossible for any one to guess at me as the original heroine....

    In the year 1799, Miss Jackson, one of my mother's daughters, by
    her first husband, was placed under the special care of dear old
    Tate Wilkinson, proprietor of the York Theatre, there to practice,
    as in due progression, what she had learned of Dramatic Art, while
    a Chorus Singer at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, coming back, as
    she did after a few years, as the wife of the late celebrated,
    inimitable Charles Mathews, to the Haymarket Theatre. In 1799,
    through the influence of my uncle, Michael Kelly, the celebrated
    singer and composer of that day, I was allowed to become a
    miniature chorister in her place....

    One Saturday, during the limited season of nine months in the
    year, Mr. Peake (dear, good old gentleman!) looking, as I remember
    he always did--anxiously perplexed--doubtless as to how he could
    best dole out the too frequently insufficient amount provided for
    the ill-paid company, silently looked me in the face, while he
    carefully folded a very dirty, ragged bank note--put it into my
    hand, patted my cheek, and with a slight pressure on my shoulder,
    hinting there was no time for our usual gossip--as good as said,
    "go, my dear," and I hurried down the long gallery, lined down
    each side with performers of all degrees, more than one of whom
    whispered as I passed--"Is it full pay, dear?" I nodded "Yes," and
    proceeded to my seat on the window of the landing-place.

    It was a great comfort in those days, to have a bank-note to
    look at; but not always easy to open one. Mine had been cut and
    repaired with a line of gum paper, about twenty times as thick as
    the note itself, threatening the total destruction of the thin
    part.

    Now observe in what small matters Fanny and Barbara were in a
    marked degree different characters. Barbara, at 11 years of age,
    was some time before she felt the different size of a guinea to a
    half guinea, held tight in her hand. I, at nine years old, was
    not so untaught, or innocent. I was a woman of the world. I took
    nothing for granted. I had a deep respect for Mr. Peake, but the
    join might have disfigured the note--destroyed its currency; and
    it was my business to see all safe. So, I carefully opened it. A
    two pound-note instead of one! The blood rushed into my face, the
    tears into my eyes, and for a moment, something like an ecstasy
    of joy passed through my mind. "Oh! what a blessing to my dear
    mother!"--"To whom?"--in an instant said my violently beating
    heart,--"My mother?" Why she would spurn me for the wish. How
    shall I ever own to her my guilty thought? I trembled violently--I
    staggered back on my way to the Treasury, but no one would let me
    pass, until I said, "But Mr. Peake has given me too much." "Too
    much, has he?" said one, and was followed by a coarse, cold,
    derisive, general laugh. Oh! how it went to my heart; but on I
    went.

    "If you please, Mr. Peake, you have given me a two--"

    "A what?"

    "A two, Sir!"

    "A two!--God bless my soul!--tut-tut-tut-tut--dear, dear,
    dear!--God bless my soul! There, dear," and without another word,
    he, in exchange, laid a one pound note on the desk; a new one,
    quite clean,--a bright, honest looking note,--mine, the one I had
    a right to,--my own,--within the limit of my poor deservings.

    Thus, my dear sir, I give (as you say you wish to have the facts
    as accurately stated as possible) the simple, absolute truth.

As a matter of fact Miss Kelly did afterwards play in Morton's "Children in the Wood," to Lamb's
great satisfaction. The incident of the roast fowl is in that play.

In Vol. I. will be found more than one eulogy of Miss Kelly's acting.

Page 231, last line. Real hot tears. In Crabb Robinson's diary Miss Kelly relates that when,
as Constance, in "King John," Mrs. Siddons (not Mrs. Porter) wept over her, her collar was
wet with Mrs. Siddons' tears. Miss Kelly, of course, was playing Arthur.

Page 232, line 7. Impediment ... pulpit. This is more true than the casual reader may suppose.
Had Lamb not had an impediment in his speech, he would have become, at Christ's Hospital, a
Grecian, and have gone to one of the universities; and the ordinary fate of a Grecian was to
take orders.

Page 232, line 13. Mr. Liston. Mrs. Cowden Clarke says that Liston the comedian and his wife
were among the visitors to the Lambs' rooms at Great Russell Street.

Page 232, line 14. Mrs. Charles Kemble, née Maria Theresa De Camp, mother of Fanny Kemble.

Page 232, line 16. Macready. The only record of any conference between Macready and Lamb is
Macready's remark in his Diary that he met Lamb at Talfourd's, and Lamb said that he wished
to draw his last breath through a pipe, and exhale it in a pun. But this was long after the
present essay was written.

Page 232, line 17. Picture Gallery ... Mr. Matthews. See note below.

Page 232, line 26. Not Diamond's. Dimond was the proprietor of the old Bath Theatre.

Page 235, first line. Mrs. Crawford. Anne Crawford (1734-1801), née Street, who was born at
Bath, married successively a Mr. Dancer, Spranger Barry the actor, and a Mr. Crawford. Her
great part was Lady Randolph in Home's "Douglas."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 235. THE TOMBS IN THE ABBEY.

London Magazine, October, 1823, where, with slight differences, it formed the concluding portion
of the "Letter of Elia to Robert Southey, Esquire," which will be found in Vol. I. The notes
in that volume should be consulted; but a little may be said here. This, the less personal
portion of the "Letter to Southey," seems to have been all that Lamb cared to retain. He admitted
afterwards, when his anger against Southey had cooled, that his "guardian angel" had been "absent"
at the time he wrote it.

The Dean of Westminster at the time was Ireland, the friend of Gifford--dean from 1815 to 1842.
Lamb's protest against the two-shilling fee was supported a year or so later than its first
appearance by Reynolds, in Odes and Addresses, 1825, in a sarcastic appeal to the Dean and
Chapter of Westminster to reduce that sum. The passage in Lamb's essay being reprinted in 1833,
suggests that the reform still tarried. The evidence, however, of J.T. Smith, in his Book for
a Rainy Day, is that it was possible in 1822 to enter Poets' Corner for sixpence. Dean Stanley,
in his Historical Memorials of Westminster Abbey, writes: "Free admission was given to the
larger part of the Abbey under Dean Ireland. Authorised guides were first appointed in 1826,
and the nave and transepts opened, and the fees lowered in 1841...."

Lamb's reference to Southey and to André's monument is characteristically mischievous. He is
reminding Southey of his early sympathy with rebels--his "Wat Tyler" and pantisocratic days.
Major John André, Sir Henry Clinton's adjutant-general, was caught returning from an interview
with an American traitor--a perfectly honourable proceeding in warfare--and was hanged by Washington
as a spy in 1780. No blame attached either to judge or victim. André's remains were reburied
in the Abbey in 1821. Lamb speaks of injury to André's figure in the monument, but the usual
thing was for the figure of Washington to be attacked. Its head has had to be renewed more
than once. Minor thefts have also been committed. According to Mrs. Gordon's Life of Dean Buckland,
one piece of vandalism at any rate was the work of an American, who returned to the dean two
heads which he had appropriated as relics.

In The Examiner for April 8, 1821, is quoted from The Traveller the following epigram, which
may not improbably be Lamb's, and which shows at any rate that his protest against entrance
fees for churches was in the air.

  ON A VISIT TO ST. PAUL'S

  What can be hop'd from Priests who, 'gainst the Poor,
  For lack of two-pence, shut the church's door;
  Who, true successors of the ancient leaven,
  Erect a turnpike on the road to Heaven?
  "Knock, and it shall be open'd," saith our LORD;
  "Knock, and pay two-pence," say the Chapter Board:
  The Showman of the booth the fee receives,
  And God's house is again a "den of thieves."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 237. AMICUS REDIVIVUS.

London Magazine, December, 1823.

A preliminary sketch of the first portion of this essay will be found in the letter from Lamb
to Sarah Hazlitt, written probably in November, 1823. In Barry Cornwall's Memoir of Lamb, Chapter
VI., there is also an account of the accident to Dyer--Procter (Barry Cornwall) having chanced
to visit the Lambs just after the event. For an account of George Dyer see notes to the essay
on "Oxford in the Vacation". In 1823 he was sixty-eight; later he became quite blind.

We have another glimpse of G.D. on that fatal day, in the reminiscences of Mr. Ogilvie, an
India House clerk with Lamb, as communicated to the Rev. Joseph H. Twichell (see Scribner's
Magazine, March, 1876):--

    At the time George Dyer was fished out of New River in front of
    Lamb's house at Islington, after he was resuscitated, Mary brought
    him a suit of Charles's clothes to put on while his own were
    drying. Inasmuch as he was a giant of a man, and Lamb undersized;
    inasmuch, moreover, as Lamb's wardrobe afforded only knee breeches
    for the nether limbs (Dyer's were colossal), the spectacle he
    presented when the clothes were on--or as much on as they could
    be--was vastly ludicrous.

Allsop, in a letter to Mr. Percy Fitzgerald, remarked, of Dyer's immersion, that Lamb had said
to him: "If he had been drowned it would have made me famous. Think of having a Crowner's quest,
and all the questions and dark suspicions of murder. People would haunt the spot and say, 'Here
died the poet of Grongar Hill.'" The poet of "Grongar Hill" was, of course, John Dyer--another
of Lamb's instances of the ambiguities arising from proper names.

Page 238, line 19. The rescue. At these words, in the London Magazine, Lamb put this footnote:--

    "The topography of my cottage, and its relation to the river,
    will explain this; as I have been at some cost to have the whole
    engraved (in time, I hope, for our next number), as well for
    the satisfaction of the reader, as to commemorate so signal a
    deliverance."

The cottage at Colebrooke Row, it should be said, stands to this day (1911); but the New River
has been covered in. There is, however, no difficulty in reproducing the situation. One descends
from the front door by a curved flight of steps, a little path from which, parallel with the
New River, takes one out into Colebrooke Row (or rather Duncan Terrace, as this part of the
Row is now called). Under the front door-steps is another door from which Dyer may possibly
have emerged; if so it would be the simplest thing for him to walk straight ahead, and find
himself in the river.

Page 240, line 22. That Abyssinian traveller. James Bruce (1730-1794), the explorer of the
sources of the Nile, was famous many years before his Travels appeared, in 1790, the year after
which Lamb left school. The New River, made in 1609-1613, has its source in the Chadwell and
Amwell springs. It was peculiarly Lamb's river: Amwell is close to Blakesware and Widford;
Lamb explored it as a boy; at Islington he lived opposite it, and rescued George Dyer from
its depths; and he retained its company both at Enfield and Edmonton.

In the essay on "Newspapers" is a passage very similar to this.

Page 240, line 32. Eternal novity. Writing to Hood in 1824 Lamb speaks of the New River as
"rather elderly by this time." Dyer, it should be remembered, was of Emmanuel College, and
the historian of Cambridge University.

Page 241, last paragraph. George Dyer contributed "all that was original" to Valpy's edition
of the classics--141 volumes. He also wrote the History of The University and Colleges of Cambridge,
including notices relating to the Founders and Eminent Men. Among the eminent men of Cambridge
are Jeremiah Markland (1693-1776), of Christ's Hospital and St. Peter's, the classical commentator;
and Thomas Gray, the poet, the sweet lyrist of Peterhouse, who died in 1771, when Dyer was
sixteen. Tyrwhitt would probably be Thomas Tyrwhitt (1730-1786), of Queen's College, Oxford,
the editor of Chaucer; but Robert Tyrwhitt (1735-1817), his brother, the Unitarian, might be
expected to take interest in Dyer also, for G.D. was, in Lamb's phrase, a "One-Goddite" too.
The mild Askew was Anthony Askew (1722-1772), doctor and classical scholar, who, being physician
to Christ's Hospital when Dyer was there, lent the boy books, and was very kind to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 242. SOME SONNETS OF SIR PHILIP SYDNEY.

London Magazine, September, 1823, where it was entitled "Nugæ Criticæ. By the Author of Elia.
No. 1. Defence of the Sonnets of Sir Philip Sidney." Signed "L." The second and last of the
"Nugæ Criticæ" series was the note on "The Tempest" (see Vol. I.).

It may be interesting here to relate that Henry Francis Gary, the translator of Dante, and
Lamb's friend, had, says his son in his memoir, lent Lamb Edward Phillips's Theatrum Poetarum
Anglicanorum, which was returned after Lamb's death by Edward Moxon, with the leaf folded down
at the account of Sir Philip Sidney. Mr. Gary thereupon wrote his "Lines to the memory of Charles
Lamb," which begin:--

  So should it be, my gentle friend;
  Thy leaf last closed at Sidney's end.
  Thou, too, like Sidney, wouldst have given
  The water, thirsting and near heaven.

Lamb has some interesting references to Sidney in the note to Beaumont and Fletcher's "Maid's
Tragedy" in the Dramatic Specimens.

Page 243, line 5. Tibullus, or the ... Author of the Schoolmistress. In the London Magazine
Lamb wrote "Catullus." Tibullus was one of the tenderest of Latin poets. William Shenstone
(1714-1763) wrote "The Schoolmistress," a favourite poem with Lamb. The "prettiest of poems"
he called it in a letter to John Clare.

Page 243, line 9. Ad Leonoram. The following translation of Milton's sonnet was made by Leigh
Hunt:--

  TO LEONORA SINGING AT ROME

  To every one (so have ye faith) is given
  A winged guardian from the ranks of heaven.
  A greater, Leonora, visits thee:
  Thy voice proclaims the present deity.
  Either the present deity we hear,
  Or he of the third heaven hath left his sphere,
  And through the bosom's pure and warbling wells,
  Breathes tenderly his smoothed oracles;
  Breathes tenderly, and so with easy rounds
  Teaches our mortal hearts to bear immortal sounds.
  If God is all, and in all nature dwells,
  In thee alone he speaks, mute ruler in all else.

The Latin in Masson's edition of Milton differs here and there from Lamb's version.

Page 243. Sonnet I. Lamb cites the sonnets from Astrophel and Stella, in his own order. That
which he calls I. is XXXI.; II., XXXIX.; III., XXIII.; IV., XXVII.; V., XLI.; VI., LIII.; VII.,
LXIV.; VIII., LXXIII.; IX., LXXIV.; X., LXXV.; XI., CIII.; XII., LXXXIV. I have left the sonnets
as Lamb copied them, but there are certain differences noted in my large edition.

Page 247, middle. Which I have ... heard objected. A criticism of Hazlitt's, in his sixth lecture
on Elizabethan literature, delivered in 1820 at the Surrey Institution, is here criticised.
Hazlitt's remarks on Sidney were uniformly slighting. "His sonnets inlaid in the Arcadia are
jejune, far-fetch'd and frigid.... [The Arcadia] is to me one of the greatest monuments of
the abuse of intellectual power upon record.... [Sidney is] a complete intellectual coxcomb,
or nearly so;" and so forth. The lectures were published in 1821. Elsewhere, however, Hazlitt
found in Sidney much to praise.

Page 248, line 3. Thin diet of dainty words. To this sentence, in the London Magazine, Lamb
put the following footnote:--

    "A profusion of verbal dainties, with a disproportionate lack of
    matter and circumstance, is I think one reason of the coldness
    with which the public has received the poetry of a nobleman now
    living; which, upon the score of exquisite diction alone, is
    entitled to something better than neglect. I will venture to copy
    one of his Sonnets in this place, which for quiet sweetness, and
    unaffected morality, has scarcely its parallel in our language.

      "TO A BIRD THAT HAUNTED THE WATERS OF LACKEN IN THE WINTER

      "By Lord Thurlow

      "O melancholy Bird, a winter's day,
      Thou standest by the margin of the pool,
      And, taught by God, dost thy whole being school
      To Patience, which all evil can allay.
      God has appointed thee the Fish thy prey;
      And given thyself a lesson to the Fool
      Unthrifty, to submit to moral rule,
      And his unthinking course by thee to weigh.
      There need not schools, nor the Professor's chair,
      Though these be good, true wisdom to impart.
      He who has not enough, for these, to spare
      Of time, or gold, may yet amend his heart,
      And teach his soul, by brooks, and rivers fair:
      Nature is always wise in every part."

This sonnet, by Edward Hovell-Thurlow, second Baron Thurlow (1781-1829), an intense devotee
of Sir Philip Sidney's muse, was a special favourite with Lamb. He copied it into his Commonplace
Book, and De Quincey has described, in his "London Reminiscences," how Lamb used to read it aloud.

Page 248, line 27. Epitaph made on him. After these words, in the London Magazine, came "by
Lord Brooke." Fulke Greville, Lord Brooke, wrote Sidney's Life, published in 1652. After Sidney's
death appeared many elegies upon him, eight of which were printed at the end of Spenser's Colin
Clout's Come Home Again, in 1595. That which Lamb quotes is by Matthew Roydon, Stanzas 15 to
18 and 26 and 27. The poem beginning "Silence augmenteth grief" is attributed to Brooke, chiefly
on Lamb's authority, in Ward's English Poets. This is one stanza:--

  He was (woe worth that word!) to each well-thinking mind
  A spotless friend, a matchless man, whose virtue ever shined,
  Declaring in his thoughts, his life and that he writ,
  Highest conceits, longest foresights, and deepest works of wit.

Sidney was only thirty-two at his death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 249. NEWSPAPERS THIRTY-FIVE YEARS AGO.

Englishman's Magazine, October, 1831, being the second paper under the heading "Peter's Net,"
of which "Recollections of a Late Royal Academician" was the first (see note, Vol. I.).

The title ran thus:--

    PETER'S NET

    BY THE AUTHOR OF "ELIA"

    No. II.--On the Total Defect of the faculty of Imagination
    observable in the works of modern British Artists.

For explanation of this title see note to the essay that follows. When reprinting the essay
in the Last Essays of Elia, 1833, Lamb altered the title to the one it now bears: the period
referred to thus seeming to be about 1798, but really 1801-1803.

Page 249, first line of essay. Dan Stuart. See below.

Page 249, line 2 of essay. The Exhibition at Somerset House. Between the years 1780 and 1838
the Royal Academy held its exhibitions at Somerset House. It then moved, first to Trafalgar
Square, in a portion of the National Gallery, and then to Burlington House, its present quarters,
in 1869. The Morning Post office is still almost opposite Somerset House, at the corner of
Wellington Street.

Page 250, line 5. A word or two of D.S. Daniel Stuart (1766-1846), one of the Perthshire Stuarts,
whose father was out in the '45, and his grandfather in the '15, began, with his brother, to
print the Morning Post in 1788. In 1795 they bought it for £600, Daniel assumed the editorship,
and in two years' time the circulation had risen from 350 to 1,000. Mackintosh (afterwards
Sir James), Stuart's brother-in-law, was on the staff; and in 1797 Coleridge began to contribute.
Coleridge's "Devil's Walk" was the most popular thing printed in Stuart's time; his political
articles also helped enormously to give the paper prestige. Stuart sold the Morning Post in
1803 for £25,000, and then turned his attention to the development of The Courier, an evening
paper, in which he also had occasional assistance from Coleridge and more regular help from
Mackintosh.

Lamb's memory served him badly in the essay. So far as I can discover, his connection with
the Morning Post, instead of ending when Stuart sold the paper, can hardly be said to have
existed until after that event. The paper changed hands in September, 1803 (two years after
the failure of The Albion), and Lamb's hand almost immediately begins to be apparent. He had,
we know, made earlier efforts to get a footing there, but had been only moderately successful.
The first specimens prepared for Stuart, in 1800, were not accepted. In the late summer of
1801 he was writing for the Morning Chronicle--a few comic letters, as I imagine--under James
Perry; but that lasted only a short time. At the end of 1801 Lamb tried the Post again. In
January and February, 1802, Stuart printed some epigrams by him on public characters, two criticisms
of G.F. Cooke, in Richard III. and Lear, and the essay "The Londoner" (see Vol. I.). Probably
there were also some paragraphs. In a letter to Rickman in January, 1802, Lamb says that he
is leaving the Post, partly on account of his difficulty in writing dramatic criticisms on
the same night as the performance.

We know nothing of Lamb's journalistic adventures between February, 1802, and October, 1803,
when the fashion of pink stockings came in, and when he was certainly back on the Post (Stuart
having sold it to establish The Courier), and had become more of a journalist than he had ever
been. I quote a number of the paragraphs which I take to be his on this rich topic; but the
specimen given in the essay is not discoverable:--

    "Oct. 8.--The fugitive and mercurial matter, of which a Lady's
    blush is made, after coursing from its natural position, the
    cheek, to the tip of the elbow, and thence diverging for a
    time to the knee, has finally settled in the legs, where, in
    the form of a pair of red hose, it combines with the posture and
    situation of the times, to put on a most warlike and martial
    appearance."

    "Nov. 2.--Bartram, who, as a traveller, was possessed of a
    very lively fancy, describes vast plains in the interior of
    America, where his horse's fetlocks for miles were dyed a
    perfect blood colour, in the juice of the wild strawberries.
    A less ardent fancy than BARTRAM'S may apply this beautiful
    phenomenon of summer, to solve the present strawberry appearance
    of the female leg this autumn in England."

    "Nov. 3.--The roseate tint, so agreeably diffused through the
    silk stockings of our females, induces the belief that the dye is
    cast for their lovers."

    "Nov. 8.--A popular superstition in the North of Germany is said
    to be the true original of the well-known sign of Mother REDCAP.
    Who knows but that late posterity, when, what is regarded by
    us now as fashion, shall have long been classed among the
    superstitious observances of an age gone by, may dignify their
    signs with the antiquated personification of a Mother RED LEGS?"

    "Nov. 9.--Curiosity is on tip-toe for the arrival of ELPHY
    BEY'S fair Circassian Ladies. The attraction of their
    naturally-placed, fine, proverbial bloom, is only wanting to
    reduce the wandering colour in the 'elbows' and 'ancles' of our
    belles, back to its native metropolis and palace, the
    'cheek.'"

    "Nov. 22.--Pink stockings beneath dark pelices are emblems
    of Sincerity and Discretion; signifying a warm heart beneath
    a cool exterior."

    "Nov. 29.--The decline of red stockings is as fatal to the wits,
    as the going out of a fashion to an overstocked jeweller: some
    of these gentry have literally for some months past fed on
    roses."

    "Dec. 21.--The fashion of red stockings, so much cried down,
    dispraised, and followed, is on the eve of departing, to be
    consigned to the family tomb of 'all the fashions,' where sleep
    in peace the ruffs and hoops, and fardingales of past
    centuries; and

      "All its beauty, all its pomp, decays
      Like Courts removing, or like ending plays."

On February 7, 1804, was printed Lamb's "Epitaph on a young Lady who Lived Neglected and Died
Obscure" (see Vol. IV.), and now and then we find a paragraph likely to be his; but, as we
know from a letter from Mary Lamb to Sarah Stoddart, he had left the Post in the early spring,
1804. I think this was the end of his journalism, until he began to write a little for The
Examiner in 1812.

For further remarks concerning Lamb's journalism see below when we come to The Albion and his
connection with it.

Page 250, line 6. Perry, of the Morning Chronicle. James Perry (1756-1821) the editor of the
Morning Chronicle--the leading Whig paper, for many years--from about 1789. Perry was a noted
talker and the friend of many brilliant men, among them Porson. Southey's letters inform us
that Lamb was contributing to the Chronicle in the summer of 1801, and I fancy I see his hand
now and then; but his identifiable contributions to the paper came much later than the period
under notice. Coleridge contributed to it a series of sonnets to eminent persons in 1794, in
one of which, addressed to Mrs. Siddons, he collaborated with Lamb (see Vol. IV.).

Page 250, line 14. The Abyssinian Pilgrim. For notes to this passage about the New River see
the essay "Amicus Redivivus."

Page 250, foot. In those days ... This paragraph began, in the Englishman's Magazine, with
the following sentence:--

    "We ourself--PETER--in whose inevitable NET already Managers and
    R.A.s lie caught and floundering--and more peradventure shall
    flounder--were, in the humble times to which we have been
    recurring, small Fishermen indeed, essaying upon minnows; angling
    for quirks, not men."

The phrase "Managers and R.A.s" refers to the papers on Elliston and George Dawe which had
preceded this essay, although the Elliston essay had not been ranged under the heading "Peter's
Net." The George Dawe paper is in Vol. I. of this edition.

Page 252, line 25. Basilian water-sponges. The Basilian order of monks were pledged to austerity;
but probably Lamb intended merely a joke upon his friend Basil Montagu's teetotalism (see note
in Vol. I. to "Confessions of a Drunkard," a paper quoted in Montagu's Some Enquiries into
the Effects of Fermented Liquors). In John Forster's copy of the Last Essays of Elia, in the
South Kensington Museum, a legacy from Elia, there is written "Basil Montagu!" against this
passage. Moreover the context runs, "we were right toping Capulets"--as opposed to the (Basil)
Montagus.

Page 253, line 23. Bob Allen. See the essay on "Christ's Hospital" and note.

Page 253, line 24. The "Oracle." This daily paper was started in the 1780's by Peter Stuart,
Daniel Stuart's brother, as a rival to The World (see below).

Page 253, line 31. Mr. Deputy Humphreys. I am disappointed to have been able to find nothing
more about this Common Council butt.

Page 254, lines 11 and 12. The "True Briton," the "Star," the "Traveller." The True Briton,
a government organ in the 1790's, which afterwards assimilated Cobbett's Porcupine. The Star
was founded by Peter Stuart, Daniel Stuart's brother, in 1788. It was the first London evening
paper to appear regularly. The Traveller, founded about 1803, still flourishes under the better-known
title of The Globe.

Page 254, lines 24-26. Este ... Topham ... Boaden. Edward Topham (1751-1820), author of the
Life of John Elwes, the miser, founded The World, a daily paper, in 1787. Parson Este, the
Rev. Charles Este, was one of his helpers. James Boaden (1762-1839), dramatist, biographer
and journalist, and editor of The Oracle for some years, wrote the Life of Mrs. Siddons, 1827.

Page 254, foot. The Albion. Lamb's memory of his connection with The Albion was at fault. His
statement is that he joined it on the sale of the Morning Post by Stuart, which occurred in
1803; but as a matter of fact his association with it was in 1801. This we know from his letters
to Manning in August of that year, quoting the epigram on Mackintosh (see below) and announcing
the paper's death. Mackintosh, says Lamb, was on the eve of departing to India to reap the
fruits of his apostasy--referring to his acceptance of the post of Recordership of Bombay offered
to him by Addington. But this was a slip of memory. Mackintosh's name had been mentioned in
connection with at least two posts before this--a judgeship in Trinidad and the office of Advocate-General
in Bengal, and Lamb's epigram may have had reference to one or the other. In the absence of
a file of The Albion, which I have been unable to find, it is impossible to give exact dates
or to reproduce any of Lamb's other contributions.

Page 255, line 6. John Fenwick. See the essay "The Two Races of Men," and note. Writing to
Manning on September 24, 1802, Lamb describes Fenwick as a ruined man hiding from his creditors.
And we meet him again as late as 1817, in a letter to Barron Field, on August 31, where his
editorship of The Statesman is mentioned. In Mary Lamb's letters to Sarah Stoddart there are
indications that Mrs. Fenwick and family were mindful of the Lambs' charitable impulses.

After "Fenwick," in the Englishman's Magazine, Lamb wrote: "Of him, under favour of the public,
something may be told hereafter." It is sad that the sudden discontinuance of the magazine
with this number for ever deprived us of further news of this man.

Page 255, line 11. Lovell. Daniel Lovell, subsequently owner and editor of The Statesman, which
was founded by John Hunt, Leigh Hunt's brother, in 1806. He had a stormy career, much chequered
by imprisonment and other punishment for freedom of speech. He died in 1818.

Page 255, line 20. Daily demands of the Stamp Office. The newspaper stamp in those days was
threepence-halfpenny, raised in 1815 to fourpence. In 1836 it was reduced to a penny, and in
1855 abolished.

Page 255, line 28. Accounted very good men now. A hit, I imagine, particularly at Southey (see
note to "The Tombs in the Abbey"). Also at Wordsworth and Mackintosh himself.

Page 256, line 3. Sir J----s M----h. Sir James Mackintosh (1765-1832), the philosopher, whose
apostasy consisted in his public recantation of the opinions in favour of the French Revolution
expressed in his Vindiciæ Gallicæ, published in 1791. In 1803 he accepted the offer of the
Recordership of Bombay.

Page 256, line 6. Lord ... Stanhope. This was Charles, third earl (1753-1816), whose sympathies
were with the French Revolution. His motion in the House of Lords against interfering with
France's internal affairs was supported by himself alone, which led to a medal being struck
in his honour with the motto, "The Minority of One, 1795;" and he was thenceforward named "Minority,"
or "Citizen," Stanhope. George Dyer, who had acted as tutor to his children, was one of Stanhope's
residuary legatees.

Page 256, line 10. It was about this time ... With this sentence Lamb brought back his essay
to its original title, and paved the way for the second part--now printed under that heading.

At the end of this paper, in the Englishman's Magazine, were the words, "To be continued."
For the further history of the essay see the notes that follow.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 256. BARRENNESS OF THE IMAGINATIVE FACULTY IN THE PRODUCTIONS OF MODERN ART.

Athenæum, January 12, 19, 26, and February 2, 1833, where it was thus entitled: "On the Total
Defects of the Quality of Imagination, observable in the Works of Modern British Artists."
By the Author of the Essays signed "Elia."

The following editorial note was prefixed to the first instalment:--"This Series of Papers
was intended for a new periodical, which has been suddenly discontinued. The distinguished
writer having kindly offered them to the ATHENÆUM, we think it advisable to perfect the Series
by this reprint; and, from the limited sale of the work in which it originally appeared, it
is not likely to have been read by one in a thousand of our subscribers."

The explanation of this passage has been made simple by the researches of the late Mr. Dykes
Campbell. Lamb intended the essay originally for the Englishman's Magazine, November number,
to follow the excursus on newspapers. But that magazine came to an end with the October number.
In the letter from Lamb to Moxon dated October 24, 1831, Lamb says, referring to Moxon's announcement
that the periodical would cease:--"Will it please, or plague, you, to say that when your Parcel
came I damned it, for my pen was warming in my hand at a ludicrous description of a Landscape
of an R.A., which I calculated upon sending you to morrow, the last day you gave me."

That was the present essay. Subsequently--at the end of 1832--Moxon started a weekly paper
entitled The Reflector, edited by John Forster, in which the printing of Lamb's essay was begun.
It lasted only a short time, and on its cessation Lamb sent the ill-fated manuscript to The
Athenæum, where it at last saw publication completed. Of The Reflector all trace seems to have
vanished, and with it possibly other writings of Lamb's.

In The Athenæum of December 22, 1832, the current Reflector (No. 2) is advertised as containing
"An Essay on Painters and Painting by Elia."

Page 256, line 1 of essay. Hogarth. Compare Lamb's criticism of Hogarth, Vol. I.

Page 256, foot. Titian's "Ariadne." This picture is now No. 35 in the National Gallery. Writing
to Wordsworth in May, 1833, it is amusing to note, Lamb says: "Inter nos the Ariadne is not
a darling with me, several incongruous things are in it, but in the composition it served me
as illustrative." The legend of Ariadne tells that after being abandoned by Theseus, whom she
loved with intense passion, she was wooed by Bacchus.

Page 258, line 2. Somerset House. See note above to the essay on "Newspapers."

Page 258, line 14. Neoteric ... Mr. ----. Probably J.M.W. Turner and his "Garden of the Hesperides,"
now in the National Gallery. It is true it was painted in 1806, but Lamb does not describe
it as a picture of the year and Turner was certainly the most notable neoteric, or innovator,
of that time.

Page 259, line 1. Of a modern artist. In The Athenæum this had been printed "of M----," meaning
John Martin (1789-1854). His "Belshazzar's Feast," which Lamb analyses below, was painted in
1821, and made him famous. It was awarded a £200 premium, and was copied on glass and exhibited
with great success as an illuminated transparency in the Strand. Lord Lytton said of Martin
that "he was more original, more self-dependent, than Raphael or Michael Angelo." Lamb had
previously expressed his opinion of Martin, in a letter to Bernard Barton, dated June 11, 1827,
in a passage which contains the germ of this essay:--"Martin's Belshazzar (the picture) I have
seen. Its architectural effect is stupendous; but the human figures, the squalling, contorted
little antics that are playing at being frightened, like children at a sham ghost who half
know it to be a mask, are detestable. Then the letters are nothing more than a transparency
lighted up, such as a Lord might order to be lit up on a sudden at a Christmas Gambol, to scare
the ladies. The type is as plain as Baskervil--they should have been dim, full of mystery,
letters to the mind rather than the eye."

Page 259, line 13. The late King. George IV., who built, when Prince of Wales, the Brighton
Pavilion. As I cannot find this incident in any memoirs of the Regency, I assume Lamb to have
invented it, after his wont, when in need of a good parallel. "Mrs. Fitz-what's-her-name" stands
of course for Mrs. Fitzherbert.

Page 259, line 33. The ingenious Mr. Farley. Charles Farley (1771-1859), who controlled the
pantomimes at Covent Garden from 1806 to 1834, and invented a number of mechanical devices
for them. He also acted, and had been the instructor of the great Grimaldi. Lamb alludes to
him in the essay on "The Acting of Munden."

Page 262, line 10. "Sun, stand thou still ..." See Joshua x. 12. Martin's picture of "Joshua
commanding the Sun to stand still" was painted in 1816. Writing to Barton, in the letter quoted
from above, Lamb says: "Just such a confus'd piece is his Joshua, fritter'd into 1000 fragments,
little armies here, little armies there--you should see only the Sun and Joshua ... for Joshua,
I was ten minutes finding him out."

Page 262, line 29. The great picture at Angerstein's. This picture is "The Resurrection of
Lazarus," by Fra Sebastiano del Piombo, with the assistance, it is conjectured, of Michael
Angelo. The picture is now No. 1 in the National Gallery, the nucleus of which collection was
once the property of John Julius Angerstein (1735-1823). Angerstein's art treasures were to
be seen until his death in his house in Pall Mall, where the Reform Club now stands.

Page 263, line 35. The Frenchmen, of whom Coleridge's friend. See the Biographia Literaria,
1847 ed., Vol. II., pp. 126-127.

Page 265, line 5. "Truly, fairest Lady ..." The passage quoted by Lamb is from Skeltoa's translation
of Don Quixote, Part II., Chapter LVIII. The first sentence runs: "Truly, fairest Lady, Actæon
was not more astonished or in suspense when on the sodaine he saw Diana," and so forth.

Page 266, line 9. "Guzman de Alfarache." The Picaresque romance by Mateo Aleman--Vida y Lechos
del picaro Guzman de Alfarache, Part I., 1599; Part II., 1605. It was translated into English
by James Mabbe in 1622 as The Rogue; or, The Life of Guzman de Alfarache. Lamb had a copy,
which is now in my possession, with Mary Lamb's name in it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 266. REJOICINGS UPON THE NEW YEAR'S COMING OF AGE.

London Magazine, January, 1823.

This paper, being printed in the same number as that which announced Elia's death, was signed
"Elia's Ghost."

Lamb returned to this vein of fancy two years or so later when (in 1825) he contributed to
his friend William Hone's Every-Day Book the petition of the Twenty-Ninth of February, a day
of which Hone had taken no account, and of the Twelfth of August, which from being kept as
the birthday of King George IV. during the time that he was Prince of Wales, was, on his accession
to the throne, disregarded in favour of April 23, St. George's Day. For these letters see Vol.
I. of this edition.

Page 271, line 15. "On the bat's back ..." From Ariel's song in "The Tempest." Lamb confesses,
in at least two of his letters, to a precisely similar plight.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 271. THE WEDDING.

London Magazine, June, 1825.

The wedding was that of Sarah Burney, daughter of Lamb's old friends, Rear-Admiral James Burney
and his wife Sarah Burney, to her cousin, John Payne, of Pall Mall, at St. Margaret's, Westminster,
in April, 1821. The clergyman was the Rev. C.P. Burney, who was not, however, vicar of St.
Mildred's in the Poultry, but of St. Paul's, Deptford, in Kent. Admiral Burney lived only six
months longer, dying in November.

Canon Ainger pointed out that when Lamb was revising this essay for its appearance in the Last
Essays of Elia, he was, like the admiral, about to lose by marriage Emma Isola, who was to
him and his sister what Miss Burney had been to her parents. She married Edward Moxon in July,
1833.

Page 274, line 8. An unseasonable disposition to levity. Writing to P.G. Patmore in 1827 Lamb
says: "I have been to a funeral, where I made a pun, to the consternation of the rest of the
mourners." I misbehaved once at a funeral."

Page 274, line 24. Miss T----s. In the London Magazine "Miss Turner's."

Page 274, line 27. Black ... the costume of an author. See note below.

Page 274, line 29. Lighter colour. Here the London Magazine had: "a pea-green coat, for instance,
like the bridegroom."

Page 274, line 34. A lucky apologue. I do not find this fable; but Lamb's father, in his volume
of poems, described in a note on page 381, has something in the same manner in his ballad "The
Sparrow's Wedding":--

  The chatt'ring Magpye undertook
  Their wedding breakfast for to cook,
  He being properly bedight
  In a cook's cloathing, black and white.

Page 275, foot. The Admiral's favourite game. Admiral Burney wrote a treatise on whist (see
notes to "Mrs. Battle's Opinions on Whist").

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 276. THE CHILD ANGEL.

London Magazine, June, 1823.

Thomas Moore's Loves of the Angels was published in 1823. Lamb used it twice for his own literary
purposes: on the present occasion, with tenderness, and again, eight years later, with some
ridicule, for his comic ballad, "Satan in Search of a Wife," 1831, was ironically dedicated
to the admirers of Moore's poem (see Vol. IV.).

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 279. A DEATH-BED.

Hone's Table Book, Vol. I., cols. 425-426, 1827. Signed "L.," and dated London, February 10,
1827. The essay is very slightly altered from a letter written by Lamb to Crabb Robinson, January
20, 1827, describing the death of Randal Morris. It was printed in the first edition only of
the Last Essays of Elia; its place being taken afterwards by the "Confessions of a Drunkard,"
an odd exchange. The essay was omitted, in deference, it is believed, to the objection of Mrs.
Norris to her reduced circumstances being made public. As the present edition adheres to the
text of the first edition, "The Death-Bed" is included in its original place as decided by
the author. The "Confessions of a Drunkard" will be found in Vol. I.

Randal Norris was for many years sub-treasurer of the Inner Temple (see postscript to the essay
on the "Old Benchers"). Writing to Wordsworth in 1830 Lamb spoke of him as "sixty years ours
and our father's friend." An attempt has been made to identify him with the Mr. Norris of Christ's
Hospital who was so kind to the Lambs after the tragedy of September, 1796. I cannot find any
trace of Randal Norris having been connected with anything but the law and the Inner Temple;
but possibly the Mr. Norris of the school was a relative.

Mrs. Randal Norris was connected with Widford, the village adjoining Blakesware, where she
had known Mary Field, Lamb's grandmother. It was thither that she and her son retired after
Randal Norris's death, to join her daughters, Miss Betsy and Miss Jane, who had a school for
girls known as Goddard House School. Lamb kept up his friendship with them to the end, and
they corresponded with Mary Lamb after his death. Mrs. Norris died in 1843, aged seventy-eight,
and was buried at Widford. The grave of Richard Norris, the son, is also there. He died in
1836. One of the daughters, Elizabeth, married Charles Tween, of Widford, and lived until 1894.
The other daughter, Jane, married Arthur Tween, his brother, and lived until 1891.

Mary Lamb was a bridesmaid at the Norris's wedding and after the ceremony accompanied the bride
and bridegroom to Richmond for the day. So one of their daughters told Canon Ainger.

Crabb Robinson seems to have exerted himself for the family, as Lamb wished. Mr. W.C. Hazlitt
says that an annuity of £80 was settled upon Mrs. Norris.

Page 279, last line. To the last he called me Jemmy. In the letter to Crabb Robinson--"To the
last he called me Charley. I have none to call me Charley now."

Page 280, line 2. That bound me to B----. In the letter to Crabb Robinson--"that bound me to
the Temple."

Page 280, line 14. Your Corporation Library. In the letter--"The Temple Library."

Page 280, line 19. He had one Song. Garrick's "Hearts of Oak."

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 281. OLD CHINA.

London Magazine, March, 1823.

This essay forms a pendant, or complement, to "Mackery End in Hertfordshire," completing the
portrait of Mary Lamb begun there. It was, with "The Wedding," Wordsworth's favourite among
the Last Essays.

Page 282, line 23. The brown suit.

Whatever Patmore's theory may be worth, it is certain that Lamb adhered to black after the change.

Page 282, line 25. Beaumont and Fletcher. See note to "Books and Reading."

Page 282, line 27. Barker's. Barker's old book-shop was at No. 20 Great Russell Street, over
which the Lambs went to live in 1817. It had then, however, become Mr. Owen's, a brazier's
(Wheatley's London Past and Present gives Barker's as 19, but a contemporary directory says
20). Great Russell Street is now Russell Street.

Page 282, line 30. From Islington. This would be when Lamb and his sister lived at 36 Chapel
Street, Pentonville, a stone's throw from the Islington boundary, in 1799-1800, after the death
of their father.

Page 283, line 11. The "Lady Blanch." See Mary Lamb's poem on this picture, Vol. IV. and note.

Page 283, line 15. Colnaghi's. Colnaghi, the printseller, then in Cockspur Street, now Pall
Mall East. After this word came in the London Magazine "(as W---- calls it)." The reference,
Mr. Rogers Rees tells me, is to Wainewright's article "C. van Vinkbooms, his Dogmas for Dilletanti,"
in the same magazine for December, 1821, where he wrote: "I advise Colnaghi and Molteno to
import a few impressions immediately of those beautiful plates from Da Vinci. The ... and Miss
Lamb's favourite, 'Lady Blanche and the Abbess,' commonly called 'Vanitas et Modestia' (Campanella,
los. ed.), for I foresee that this Dogma will occasion a considerable call for them--let them,
therefore, be ready."

Page 283, line 5 from foot. To see a play. "The Battle of Hexham" and "The Surrender of Calais"
were by George Colman the Younger; "The Children in the Wood," a favourite play of Lamb's,
especially with Miss Kelly in it, was by Thomas Morton. Mrs. Bland was Maria Theresa Bland,
née Romanzini, 1769-1838, who married Mrs. Jordan's brother. Jack Bannister we have met, in
"The Old Actors."

Page 286, line 12. The Great yew R----. This would be Nathan Meyer Rothschild (1777-1836),
the founder of the English branch of the family and the greatest financier of modern times.

       *       *       *       *       *

Page 286. POPULAR FALLACIES.

This series of little essays was printed in the New Monthly Magazine in 1826, beginning in
January. The order of publication there was not the same as that in the Last Essays of Elia;
one of the papers, "That a Deformed Person is a Lord," was not reprinted by Lamb at all (it
will be found in Vol. I. of this edition); and two others were converted into separate essays
(see "The Sanity of True Genius" and "The Genteel Style in Writing").

After Lamb's death a new series of Popular Fallacies was contributed to the New Monthly Magazine
by L.B. (Laman Blanchard) in 1835, preceded by an invocation to the spirit of Charles Lamb.

Page 286. I.--THAT A BULLY is ALWAYS A COWARD.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Page 287, line 1. Hickman. This would be Tom Hickman, the pugilist. In Hazlitt's fine account
of "The Fight," Hickman or the Gas-Man, "vapoured and swaggered too much, as if he wanted to
grin and bully his adversary out of the fight." And again, "'This is the grave digger' (would
Tom Hickman exclaim in the moments of intoxication from gin and success, showing his tremendous
right hand); 'this will send many of them to their long homes; I haven't done with them yet.'"
But he went under to Neale, of Bristol, on the great day that Hazlitt describes.

Page 287, line 2. Him of Clarissa. Mr. Hickman, in Richardson's novel Clarissa, the lover of
Miss Bayes.

Page 287. II.--THAT ILL-GOTTEN GAIN NEVER PROSPERS.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Page 287. III.--THAT A MAN MUST NOT LAUGH AT HIS OWN JEST.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Page 288, line 12. In Mandeville. In Bernard Mandeville's Fable of the Bees, a favourite book
of Lamb's. See Vol. I., note to "The Good Clerk."

Page 288. IV.--THAT SUCH A ONE SHOWS HIS BREEDING, ETC.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Page 288. V.--THAT THE POOR COPY THE VICES OF THE RICH.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Page 290. VI.--THAT ENOUGH is AS GOOD AS A FEAST.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Page 291. VII.--OF TWO DISPUTANTS, THE WARMEST IS GENERALLY IN THE WRONG.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Page 291, line 4 from foot. Little Titubus. I do not know who this was, if any more than an
abstraction; but it should be remembered that Lamb himself stammered.

Page 292. VIII.--THAT VERBAL ALLUSIONS ARE NOT WIT, ETC.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Page 292. IX.--THAT THE WORST PUNS ARE THE BEST.

New Monthly Magazine, January, 1826.

Compare the reflections on puns in the essay on "Distant Correspondents." Compare also the
review of Hood's Odes and Addresses (Vol. I.). Cary's account of a punning contest after Lamb's
own heart makes the company vie with each in puns on the names of herbs. After anise, mint
and other words had been ingeniously perverted Lamb's own turn, the last, was reached, and
it seemed impossible that anything was left for him. He hesitated. "Now then, let us have it,"
cried the others, all expectant. "Patience," he replied; "it's c-c-cumin."

Page 293, line 18. One of Swift's Miscellanies. This joke, often attributed to Lamb himself,
will be found in Ars Punica, sine flos Linguarum, The Art of Punning; or, The Flower of Languages,
by Dr. Sheridan and Swift, which will be found in Vol. XIII. of Scott's edition of Swift. Among
the directions to the punster is this:--

Rule 3. The Brazen Rule. He must have better assurance, like Brigadier C----, who said, "That,
as he was passing through a street, he made to a country fellow who had a hare swinging on
a stick over his shoulder, and, giving it a shake, asked him whether it was his own hair or
a periwig!" Whereas it is a notorious Oxford jest.

Page 294, line 8. Virgil ... broken Cremona. Swift (as Lamb explained in the original essay
in the New Monthly Magazine), seeing a lady's mantua overturning a violin (possibly a Cremona),
quoted Virgil's line: "Mantua væ miseræ nimium vicina Cremonæ!" (Eclogues, IX., 28), "Mantua,
alas! too near unhappy Cremona."

Page 294. X.--THAT HANDSOME IS THAT HANDSOME DOES.

New Monthly Magazine, March, 1826.

Whether a Mrs. Conrady existed, or was invented or adapted by Lamb to prove his point, I have
not been able to discover. But the evidence of Lamb's "reverence for the sex," to use Procter's
phrase, is against her existence. The Athenæum reviewer on February 16, 1833, says, however,
quoting the fallacy: "Here is a portrait of Mrs. Conrady. We agree with the writer that 'no
one that has looked on her can pretend to forget the lady.'" The point ought to be cleared up.

Page 296. XI.--THAT WE MUST NOT LOOK A GIFT-HORSE IN THE MOUTH.

New Monthly Magazine, April, 1826.

Page 297, line 13. Our friend Mitis. I do not identify Mitis among Lamb's many friends.

Page 297, line 11 from foot. Presentation copies. The late Mr. Thomas Westwood, the son of
the Westwoods with whom the Lambs lived at Edmonton, writing to Notes and Queries some thirty-five
years ago, gave an amusing account of Lamb pitching presentation copies out of the window into
the garden--a Barry Cornwall, a Bernard Barton, a Leigh Hunt, and so forth. Page 298, line
6. Odd presents of game. Compare the little essay on "Presents of Game," Vol. I.

Page 298. XII.--THAT HOME IS HOME THOUGH IT IS NEVER SO HOMELY.

New Monthly Magazine, March, 1826. In that place the first sentence began with the word "Two;"
the second ended with "of our assertions;" and (fourteenth line of essay) it was said of the
very poor man that he "can ask" no visitors. Lamb, in a letter, wished Wordsworth particularly
to like this fallacy and that on rising with the lark.

Page 300, line 9. It has been prettily said. By Lamb himself, or more probably by his sister,
in Poetry for Children, 1809. See "The First Tooth," Vol. III., which ends upon the line

  A child is fed with milk and praise.

Page 301, line 3. There is yet another home. Writing to Mrs. Wordsworth on February 18, 1818,
Lamb gives a painful account, very similar in part to this essay, of the homeless home to which
he was reduced by visitors. But by the time he wrote the essay, when all his day was his own,
the trouble was not acute. He tells Bernard Barton on March 20, 1826, "My tirade against visitors
was not meant particularly at you or A.K. I scarce know what I meant, for I do not just now
feel the grievance. I wanted to make an article." Compare the first of the "Lepus" papers in
Vol. I.

Page 301, line 20. It is the refreshing sleep of the day. After this sentence, in the magazine,
came this passage:--

    "O the comfort of sitting down heartily to an old folio, and
    thinking surely that the next hour or two will be your own--and
    the misery of being defeated by the useless call of somebody, who
    is come to tell you, that he is just come from hearing Mr. Irving!
    What is that to you? Let him go home, and digest what the good man
    said to him. You are at your chapel, in your oratory."

Mr. Irving was the Rev. Edward Irving (1792-1834), whom Lamb knew slightly and came greatly
to admire.

Page 302. XIII.--THAT YOU MUST LOVE ME, AND LOVE MY DOG.

New Monthly Magazine, February, 1826.

Compare "A Bachelor's Complaint." I cannot identify the particular friend whom Lamb has hidden
under asterisks; although his cousin would seem to have some likeness to one of the Bethams
mentioned in the essay "Many Friends" (Vol. I.), and in the letter to Landor of October, 1832
(usually dated April), after his visit to the Lambs.

Page 304, line 15. Honorius dismiss his vapid wife. I send out a character every now and then,
on purpose to exercise the ingenuity of my friends."

Page 304, line 11 from foot. Merry, of Delia Cruscan memory. Robert Merry (1755-1798), an affected
versifier who settled in Florence as a young man, and contributed to the Florence Miscellany.
He became a member of the Delia Cruscan Academy, and on returning to England signed his verses,
in The World, "Delia Crusca." A reply to his first effusion, "Adieu and Recall to Love," was
written by Mrs. Hannah Cowley, author of The Belle's Stratagem, and signed "Anna Matilda;"
this correspondence continued; a fashion of sentiment was thus started; and for a while Delia
Cruscan poetry was the rage. The principal Delia Cruscan poems were published in the British
Album in 1789, and the collection was popular until Gifford's Baviad (followed by his Mæviad)
appeared in 1791, and satirised its conceits so mercilessly that the school collapsed. A meeting
with Anna Matilda in the flesh and the discovery that she was twelve years his senior had,
however, put an end to Merry's enthusiasm long before Gifford's attack. Merry afterwards threw
in his lot with the French Revolution, and died in America. He married, as Lamb says, Elizabeth
Brunton, an excellent tragic actress, in 1791. But that was in England. The journey to America
came later.

The story of Merry's avoidance of the lady of his first choice is probably true. Carlo Antonio
Delpini was a famous pantomimist in his day at Drury Lane, Covent Garden and the Haymarket.
He also was stage manager at the Opera for a while, and occasionally arranged entertainments
for George IV. at Brighton. He died in 1828.

Page 305. XIV.--THAT WE SHOULD RISE WITH THE LARK.

New Monthly Magazine, February, 1826.

Compare "The Superannuated Man," to which this little essay, which, with that following, is
one of Lamb's most characteristic and perfect works, serves as a kind of postscript.

Page 308. XV.--THAT WE SHOULD LIE DOWN WITH THE LAMB.

New Monthly Magazine, February, 1826.

Page 309. XVI.--THAT A SULKY TEMPER IS A MISFORTUNE.

New Monthly Magazine, September, 1826.

This was the last of the series and Lamb's last contribution to the New Monthly Magazine.

APPENDIX

Page 315. ON SOME OF THE OLD ACTORS, ETC.

See notes to the essays "On Some of the Old Actors," "The Artificial Comedy" and "The Acting
of Munden." Two portions of these essays, not reprinted by Lamb, call for comment: the story
of the first night of "Antonio," and the account of Charles Mathews' collection of pictures.

Page 328, line 14 from foot. My friend G.'s "Antonio." William Godwin's tragedy, produced on
December 13, 1800, at Drury Lane. Lamb had written the epilogue (see Vol. IV.). Compare the
letter to Manning of December 16, 1800.

Page 329, line 28. M. wiped his cheek.

Page 329, foot. R----s the dramatist. I imagine this to be Frederic Reynolds (1764-1841), author
of "The Dramatist" and many other plays. We know Lamb to have known him later, from a mention
in a letter to J.B. Dibdin.

Page 330, foot, Brutus ... Appius. Brutus in "Julius Cæsar," or possibly in the play called
"Brutus," by John Howard Payne, Lamb's friend (produced December 3, 1818), in which Brutus
kills his son--a closer parallel. Appius was probably a slip of the pen for Virginius, who
in Sheridan Knowles' drama that bears his name kills his daughter to protect her from Appius.

Page 331, line 7. G. thenceforward. Godwin did, however, write another play, "Faulkener," for
which Lamb wrote the prologue. It was moderately successful.

Page 331, 1st line of essay. I do not know, etc. The paragraph beginning with these words is
often printed by editors of Lamb as a separate article entitled "The Old Actors." Charles Mathews'
collection of theatrical portraits is now in the Garrick Club. In his lifetime it occupied
the gallery at Ivy Lodge, Highgate (or more properly Kentish Town). A year or so before Mathews'
death in 1835, his pictures were exhibited at the Queen's Bazaar in Oxford Street, Lamb's remarks
being printed in the catalogue raisonné.

INDEX

A

Accountants, Lamb on, 3.
Actors and acting, Lamb's essays on, 150, 161, 168, 185, 188, 190, 230,
  315, 322, 331.
Actors among Lamb's friends, 232.
Adams, Parson, 49.
Agar's wish, 348.
Aguecheek, Lamb on, 155.
Ainger, Canon, his notes on Lamb, 345, 353, 361, 403, 436, 438.
Albion, The, and Lamb, 254, 429, 432.
Alice W----n, 32, 44, 116, 117, 339, 363, 389.
ALL FOOLS' DAY, 48, 367.
Allen, Bob, 25, 253, 355, 431.
Allsop, Thomas, quoting Lamb, 357.
---- and "Roast Pig," 396.
---- quotes Lamb on G.H., 425.
Almsgiving, Lamb on, 137.
Alsatia, the debtors' sanctuary, 162.
America, Lamb relics in, 344, 357, 358, 362, 412.
AMICUS REDIVIVUS, 237, 424.
Anatomy and love, 64.
Anatomy of Melancholy quoted, 46.
André, Major, 237, 424.
Anna Matilda, 443.
Antiquity, Lamb on, 11.
"Antonio," by Godwin, 328, 444.
Arcadia, The, by Sidney, 242.
Arrowsmith, Aaron, 369.
"Artaxerxes," 113, 387.
Artificial comedy, Lamb's essay on, 161, 399.
Artists, their want of imagination, 256.
Arundel Castle and the chimney-sweep legend, 127.
As when a child on some long winter's night, 388.
Athenæum, The, Lamb's contribution to, 433.
Athenian Oracle, The, 303.
Australia, Lamb on, 122.
Ayrton, William, 361, 363.

B

BACHELOR'S COMPLAINT OF THE BEHAVIOUR OF MARRIED PEOPLE, 144, 397.
Badams, Mrs., 362.
Baldwin, Cradock & Joy, 340.
Bannister, Jack, 159, 185, 399, 408.
BARBARA S----, 230, 421.
Barker's book-shop, 282, 439.
BARRENNESS OF THE IMAGINATIVE FACULTY IN THE PRODUCTIONS OF MODERN ART,
  256, 433.
Barrington, Daines, 101, 383.
Bartholomew Fair, 128, 391.
Barton, Bernard, Lamb's letters to, 341, 406, 417, 420, 435, 442.
-- Thomas, 102, 383.
Baskett prayer-book, 9.
Battle, Mrs., 37, 175, 406.
---- on whist, 37.
---- her identity, 361.
Beaumont and Fletcher, Lamb's copy, 357.
Beauty, Lamb on, 295.
"Beggar's Petition," 394.
Begging, Lamb's essay on, 130, 392.
Belisarius, 131.
"Belshazzars Feast," Martin's picture of, 259, 434.
Benchers, The Old, Lamb's essay on, 94.
Bensley, Robert, 152, 318, 398.
Betty, Master, 414.
Bigod, Ralph, Lamb's name for Fenwick, 27, 356.
Billet, John, 184.
Binding, Lamb on, 412.
Blackwood's Magazine and Scott, 340.
Blake, William, and Lamb, 391.
BLAKESMOOR IN H----SHIRE, 174, 405.
Blakesware near Widford, 115, 174, 388, 405.
Bland, Mrs., 283, 439.
Blandy, Miss, the poisoner, 98, 380.
Bodkin, W.H., 392.
Book of Sports, The, 418.
Books, Lamb on, 34, 360.
-- that are not books, 195, 411.
Booth's Tables of Interest and Lamb, 419.
Borrowing, Lamb on, 26.
Bourne, Vincent, 133, 393.
Bowles, William Lisle, 38, 362.
Boyer, James, 23, 353.
Braham, John, 71, 371.
Breeding, Lamb on, 288.
Bridget, Elia. See Elia.
Brighton and the Lambs, 415.
-- Lamb's imaginery scene there, 259.
British Museum, a careful vandal, 357.
Browne, Moses, 404.
-- Sir Thomas, 58, 66, 80.
Bruce, James, 240, 425.
Bruton, Miss Sarah, 376.
Brutons, Lamb's relations, 88, 89.
Buckland, Dean, and the American vandal, 424.
Bullies, Lamb on, 286, 440.
Buncle, The Life of, 30, 357.
Burney, Edward, 65, 370.
-- James, 361.
Burney, Martin, 200, 414.
-- Mrs., and Mrs. Battle, 361.
-- Sarah, her wedding, 271, 436.
Burns, Robert, and Lamb, 70, 370.
Burton, Robert, quoted, 46, 77.
Business! the frivolous pretence, 419.
Button Snap, Lamb's cottage, 385, 386, 387.
But who is he, with modest looks, 438.

C

Cambridge, Lamb at, 345. Camelford, Lord, 121, 390. Candle-light, Lamb on, 308. CAPTAIN JACKSON,
215, 416. Card playing, essay on, in Every-Day Book, 362. Carlisle, Sir Anthony, 193, 372,
410. Cary, H.F., his verses on Lamb, 426. -- on Lamb's puns, 441. Cave, Edward, 344. Chambers,
John, 224, 419. Chapman's Homer kissed by Lamb, 412. CHAPTER ON EARS, A, 43, 363. CHARACTER
OF THE LATE ELIA, A, 171, 402. Chess and Mrs. Battle, 42. CHILD ANGEL, THE, 276, 437. Children
and the dark, 77. Chimney-sweepers, Lamb's essay on, 124, 390. CHINA, OLD, 281, 438. -- its
first roast pork, 138. CHRIST'S HOSPITAL FIVE AND THIRTY YEARS AGO, 14, 350. ---- prayer-book,
9. ---- food in Lamb's day, 14, 350. ---- holidays in Lamb's day, 15, 351. ---- the dungeon,
19. ---- flogging, 23. ---- Grecians, 26, 355. ---- its graces, 110, 384. ---- the Coleridge
memorial, 354. ---- the Lamb medal, 355. Clapdishes, 131. "Cobbler of Preston," by Johnson,
170, 401. Cockletop, in "Modern Antiques," 168, 400. Colebrooke cottage, 425. Coleridge, Hartley,
on Lamb, 400. -- S.T., at Christ's Hospital, 15, 350, 351. -- his wit combats, 25. -- his treatment
of books, 29, 356. -- his "Ode on the Departing Year," 31, 359. -- on apple-dumplings, 108,
384. -- his "Epitaph on an Infant," 141, 397. -- on Boyer, 353. -- and the Christ's Hospital
memorial, 354. -- his military name, 356. -- Lamb's letters to, 356, 368, 396. -- his marginalia,
358. -- his notes in Beaumont and Fletcher, 357. ------ in Donne, 358. -- on Lamb, 359. --
Lamb's letter to, concerning Quakers, 368. -- and Christopher North, 371. -- his sonnets with
Lamb, 388. -- and the Morning Post, 429, 430. Colet, Dean, his Accidence, 59. Colnaghi's print
shop, 283, 439. Comberback, Coleridge's military name, 29, 356. Come, all degrees now passing
by, 391. Comedy and its licence, 161. COMPLAINT OF THE DECAY OF BEGGARS IN THE METROPOLIS,
130, 392. CONFESSIONS OF A DRUNKARD, 437. Congreve, Lamb on, 160, 162. Conrady, Mrs., 294,
441. CONVALESCENT, THE, 208, 416. Corbet, Peter, 404. Coventry, Thomas, 97, 380. Cowards and
bullies, 286. Cowley, on business, 419. Crawford, Anne, 423. Cresseid, 131. Curry, Sir Christopher,
in "Inkle and Yarico," 169, 401.

D

Da Vinci, Leonardo, and Lamb's beauty, 69, 370. Dawson, Bully, 287. Days, Lamb's fantasy upon,
266. DEATH-BED, A, 279, 437. Delia Cruscan poetry, 443. Delpini, 305, 443. Dennis, John, 292.
De Quincey on Lamb, 377. DETACHED THOUGHTS ON BOOKS AND READING, 195, 411. Dickens anticipated
by Lamb, 356, 417. Disputes, Lamb on, 291. DISSERTATION UPON ROAST PIG, 137, 395. DISTANT CORRESPONDENTS,
118, 389. Dobell, Mr. Bertram, his notes on Lamb, 342, 395, 408. Doctor, the, at Islington,
238. Dodd, James William, 155. Dodwell, Henry, 224, 419. Dornton in "The Road to Ruin," 169,
401. Dorrell, William, the Lambs' enemy, 32, 360. DREAM-CHILDREN, 115, 388. Dreams, Lamb on,
79. Drowning in dreams, 241. Drury Lane Theatre, 111, 385. Dyer, George, 11, 237, 241, 347,
348, 349, 424, 425, 433. ---- and the New River, 237, 424.

E

Early rising, Lamb on, 305. East India House, Lamb at, 219. ------ Lamb's superannuation, 219,
417. ------ Lamb's fellow clerks, 223, 224, 403, 404. Edwards, Thomas, 92, 379. Eel-soup, 374.
Elgin marbles, 225, 419. ELIA, 1823, suggested dedication, 337. -- its poor reception, 338.
-- second series. American edition, 339. Elia, F.A., 337. -- Lamb on, 8. -- his death, 171.
-- Lamb's character of, 171, 402. -- origin of name, 337. -- his birthplace, 365. -- Bridget
(Mary Lamb), 43, 362. ---- her taste in reading, 86. ---- her regrets for poverty, 282. ELLISTON,
TO THE SHADE OF, 188, 409. ELLISTONIANA, 190, 410. Elliston, R.W., Lamb's essays on, 188, 190,
409, 410. ---- at Leamington, 190. ---- his grave, 411. ---- Lamb and Munden on an excursion,
410. Elton, Sir C.A., his poem to Lamb, 358. Emery, John, 186, 409. Endor, the Witch of, 75,
372. Englishman's Magazine, 342. ---- Lamb's contributions to, 188, 190, 249. Evans, William,
3, 343. Evelyn, John, quoted, 72. Every-Day Book, essay on card-playing, 362. Examiner, The,
and Lamb's "Chimney-Sweepers," 392. ---- Lamb's contributions to, 63, 168. ---- "On a visit
to St. Paul's," 424. Example, Lamb on, 288. Excursions, the Lambs', 283.

F

Faerie Queene, Lamb's copy, 413. FALLACIES, POPULAR. See POPULAR FALLACIES. Family Pictures,
by Anne Manning, 378. Farley, Charles, 169, 259, 401, 435. "Father, A," his remonstrance with
Lamb, 360. Favell, Joseph, 25, 181, 355, 408. Feasting, Lamb on, 290. Fenwick, John, 27, 129,
255, 356, 432. Field, Barron, 90, 118, 363, 377, 389. -- Mary, 361, 405. -- Matthew, 20, 352.
Fielde, Francis, Lamb's godfather, 111, 385. Flecknoe, quoted, 51. Flogging, Lamb on, 23. Fools,
Lamb's essay on, 48, 367. Fountains, Lamb on, 96. Fox, George, 53, 368. French translation
of Lamb, 415. Fuller, Thomas, quoted, 71. Funerals and Lamb, 274, 436.

G

Gallantry, Lamb on, 90, 377. "Garden, The," by Marvell, 96. Gattie, Henry, 186, 408. Gebir
and the Tower of Babel, 49. Gebir, by Landor, 206, 415. GENTEEL STYLE IN WRITING, THE, 226,
420. Gentility, Lamb on, 176. George IV., 259, 268, 435, 436. Gladmans, Lamb's relations, 88,
89, 90. Gli Elogi del Porco, 396. Gluttony and grace, Lamb on, 105. Godwin, William, his play
"Antonio," 328, 444. -- Lamb's friend, 376. -- Lamb's letter to, 444. Gold's London Magazine,
395. GRACE BEFORE MEAT, 104, 384. Graces at Christ's Hospital, 110, 384. Gray's Inn Gardens,
155, 399. Grecians at Christ's Hospital, 26, 355. Greg, Mr. Thomas, and Lamb's property, 385.
Guildhall giants, 29. Gulliver's Travels, 382.

H

Hare Court, Lamb's rooms in, 390. "Harlequin's Invasion," 113, 387. Hastings and the Lambs,
206, 416. Hawes, Dr., 241. Hazlitt, William, on Sidney, 247, 427. ---- on Lamb in the country,
345. ---- knocked down by John Lamb, 347. ---- his interest in John Buncle, 357. ---- as Duns
Scotus, 367. ---- Lamb's letter to, 397. ---- on Lamb, 403. ---- his wedding, 436. -- W.C.,
his notes on Lamb, 357, 438. Helicon and Hippocrene confused, 37. Hertfordshire hair, 178.
-- and Lamb, 220, 418. -- Lamb's praise of, 375. He was (woe worth that word!) to each well-thinking
mind, 428. Heywood, Thomas, quoted, 67. Hickman, Tom, the prize fighter, 287, 440. High-born
Helen, round your dwelling, 407. Hodges (or Huggins), 352. Hogarth, his chimney-sweeper, 126.
Hogsflesh and Bacon, 415. Hogs Norton and the pigs, 109. Holcroft, Thomas, 376. Hone's Table
Book, Lamb's contribution to, 279. Hood, Thomas, his friendship with Lamb, 393. ---- on beggars,
393. Hooker, Richard, 104, 384. Hoole, John, 404. Horsey, Samuel, 135, 393. Huggins (or Hodges),
352. Hugh of Lincoln, 70, 371. Hume, David, 70, 371. -- Joseph, Lamb's friend, 394. Humphreys,
Mr. Deputy, 253. Hunt, Leigh, and Lamb, 360. ---- chaffed by Lamb, 364. Hunt, Leigh, replies
to Lamb, 365. ---- and Lamb's "Chimney Sweepers," 392. ---- on Lamb's books, 412. ---- his
translation of Milton, 426. -- Thornton, 77, 372. Hutchinson, Sarah, Lamb's letter to, 417.

I

I can remember when a child the maids, 372. I have not forgot how thou didst love thy Charles,
350. Illusion on the stage, 185. Imagination, its lack in the artists of Lamb's day, 256. Imitators
of Lamb, 339. IMPERFECT SYMPATHIES, 66, 370. Ino Leucothea, 79. Ireland, Dean, 423. Irving,
Edward, and Lamb, 442. Isola, Emma, 436.

J

JACKSON, CAPTAIN, 215, 416. -- "Omniscient," 102, 383. "Janus Weathercock." See Wainewright.
Jekyll, Joseph, 97, 379. John Woodvil quoted, 368, 372. Johnson, Dr. Samuel, 250, 344, 383.
Jokes to order, Lamb on, 252. Jonson, Ben, quoted, 89. Jordan, Mrs., 151, 398. Joshua, Martin's
picture of, 262, 435. Journalism and Lamb, 251.

K

Kelly, Fanny, and BARBARA S----, 421. ---- and Mrs. Siddons, 422. Kemble, John Philip, 153,
168, 327, 398. Kenney, James, 30, 357. Kent, Charles, his edition of Lamb, 421. King, Thomas,
166, 400.

L

"Lady of the Manor," 113, 387.
Lamb, Charles, on the South-Sea House, 1.
---- on accountants, 3.
---- on Elia, 8.
---- on Oxford, 10.
---- on antiquity, 11.
---- on old libraries, 11.
---- on George Dyer, 11.
---- on his school-days, 14.
---- on Coleridge's school-days, 14.
---- on Matthew Fielde, 21.
---- on James Boyer, 22.
---- on borrowers and borrowing, 26.
---- on John Fenwick, 27.
---- on Coleridge as a book borrower, 29.
---- on the Duchess of Newcastle, 30.
---- on the New Year, 31.
---- on bells, 31.
---- on his childhood, 32, 75.
---- on the joy of life, 33.
---- on death, 34.
---- on Mrs. Battle and whist, 37,
---- his want of ear, 43.
---- his piano playing, 44.
---- on oratorios, 45.
---- on Novello's evenings, 47.
---- on fools, 48.
---- on Quakers, 51, 55, 72.
---- on silence, 51.
---- on Sewel's History, 53.
---- on John Woolman, 54.
---- and the Quaker "wit," 55.
---- his reading, 56.
---- on schoolmasters, 59.
---- on Valentine's Day, 63.
---- on anatomy and love, 64.
---- on door knocks, 64.
---- on Edward Burney's valentine, 65.
---- on imperfect sympathies, 66.
---- on Scotchmen, 67.
---- on Jews, 70.
---- on Braham, 71.
---- on negroes, 71.
---- on Quakers, 72.
---- on witches, 74.
---- on his childhood, 75.
---- on children and the dark, 77.
---- on Thornton Hunt's bringing up, 77.
---- on dreams, 79.
---- on his relations, 80.
---- on Sarah Lamb, 80.
---- on John Lamb, jr., 81, 117.
---- on his sister Mary, 86.
---- his dislike of stories, 86.
---- on the Duchess of Newcastle again, 87.
---- on Mackery End, 88.
---- his Hertfordshire relations, 88.
---- on the comely Brutons, 89.
---- on gallantry, 90.
---- on Joseph Paice, 92.
---- on the Temple, 94.
---- on sun-dials, 95.
---- on fountains, 96.
---- on the old Benchers, 97.
---- on Joseph Jekyll, 97.
---- on Samuel Salt, 98, 103.
---- on Thomas Coventry, 99.
---- on his father, 99.
---- on Daines Barrington, 101.
---- on James Mingay, 102.
---- on Baron Maseres, 103.
---- on saying grace, 104.
---- on Milton, 107.
---- his godfather Field, 111.
---- as a landed proprietor, 112.
---- his first play, 112.
---- and his imaginary children, 115.
---- his grandmother, 115.
---- on Blakesware, 116.
---- on distant correspondents, 118.
---- on Lord Camelford's whim, 121.
---- on puns, 122.
---- on Australia, 122.
---- on chimney-sweepers, 124.
---- on Saloop, 125.
---- and fine teeth, 127.
---- and James White, 128.
---- on beggars, 130.
---- his translation from Bourne, 133.
Lamb, Charles, on Samuel Horsey, 135.
---- on almsgiving, 137.
---- on the origin of roast pig, 137.
---- on roast pig, 140.
---- and his plum cake, 142.
---- on married people, 144.
---- on "Twelfth Night," 150.
---- on Mrs. Jordan, 151.
---- on Mrs. Powel, 151.
---- on Bensley's Malvolio, 152.
---- on Dodd's Aguecheek, 155.
---- on Dicky Suett, 157.
---- on Jack Bannister, 159.
---- on Jack Palmer, 159, 165.
---- on the artificial comedy, 161.
---- on Wycherley and Congreve, 162.
---- on the "School for Scandal," 164.
---- on J.P. Kemble, 168.
---- on Munden's faces, 169.
---- on Elia's death, 172.
---- on family mansions, 174.
---- on Blakesware, 175.
---- on the feeling of gentility, 176.
---- on poor relations, 178.
---- on Favell's sensitiveness, 181.
---- on John Billet, 183.
---- on stage illusion, 185.
---- on Gattie's old men, 186.
---- on Emery as Tyke, 186.
---- on Elliston, 188, 190.
---- entertains Elliston, 194.
---- on reading, 195.
---- on books that are not books, 195.
---- on binding, 196.
---- on editions of the great authors, 197.
---- on the names of poets, 198.
---- on Shakespeare, 198.
---- his adventure on Primrose Hill, 199.
---- on watering-places, 201.
---- on the voyage to Margate, 21.
---- on a good liar, 202.
---- on the ocean, 205.
---- on Hastings, 206.
---- on smuggling, 207.
---- on convalescence, 208.
---- on the sanity of genius, 212.
---- on Captain Jackson, 215.
---- on his clerk-state, 219.
---- his superannuation, 221.
---- on leisure, 222.
---- on the genteel style in writing, 226.
---- on Sir William Temple, 226.
---- on Miss Kelly's reminiscence. 230.
---- on his friends among actors, 232.
---- on Westminster Abbey fees, 235.
---- on Andrews monument, 237.
---- on George Dyer's immersion, 237.
---- on the Islington doctor, 238,
---- on the New River, 240.
---- on drowning in dreams, 241.
---- on Sidney's sonnets, 242.
---- on Milton's Latin sonnet, 243.
---- on Hazlitt s opinion of Sidney, 248.
---- on James Bruce, 250.
---- on Dan Stuart, 250.
---- on the Morning Post days, 250.
---- on joking to order, 252.
---- on Bob Allen, 253.
---- on The Albion, 254.
---- and Sir James Mackintosh, 256.
---- on modern painters, 256.
---- on Titian's "Ariadne," 256.
---- on Raphael, 257.
---- on J.M.W. Turner, 258.
---- his imaginary scene at Brighton, 259.
---- on John Martin, 260.
---- on Don Quixote, 264.
---- his fantasy on the Days, 266.
---- on Miss Burney's wedding, 271.
---- on mothers and daughters, 273.
---- on his behaviour on solemn occasions, 274.
Lamb, Charles, on Admiral Burney, 275.
---- his fantasy on the child angel, 276.
---- on Randal Norris's death, 279.
---- on old china, 281.
---- his sister's regrets for poverty, 282.
---- and the folio Beaumont and Fletcher, 282.
---- and his sister's excursions, 283.
---- and his sister's playgoing, 283.
---- on bullies and cowards, 286.
---- on ill-gotten gains, 287.
---- on jokes and laughter, 287.
---- on breeding, 288.
---- on the poor and the rich, 288.
---- on sayings concerning money, 290.
---- on disputants, 291.
---- on puns, 292.
---- on Mrs. Conrady, 294.
---- on beauty, 295.
---- on presents, 296.
---- on home, 298.
---- on friendship, 302.
---- on Merry's wedding day, 304.
---- on early rising, 305.
---- on superannuation, 307.
---- on going to bed late, 308.
---- on candle-light, 308.
---- on sulky tempers, 309.
---- on Kemble in Godwin's "Antonio," 329.
---- on Mathews' collection of portraits, 331.
---- on the name Elia, 337.
---- his dedication to Elia, 337,
---- his imitators, 339.
---- his Key to Elia, 339.
---- and the London Magazine, 340.
---- on Taylor's editing, 341.
---- his post London Magazine days, 342.
---- at the South-Sea House, 342.
---- in the country, 345.
---- at Oxford, 346.
---- his sonnet on Cambridge, 346.
---- on Milton's MSS., 346.
---- his jokes with George Dyer, 347.
---- on George Dyer's career, 348, 349.