BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

    CEREBRAL HYPERÆMIA: THE RESULT OF MENTAL STRAIN
      OR EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCES. 16mo, cloth ... $1 00

    "Under the disguise of these hard words, Dr. Hammond presents a
    variety of admirable counsels, with regard to an excess of blood in
    the head, pointing out its causes, its symptoms, the mode of its
    medical treatment, and the means of its prevention."--N. Y. Tribune.

    "The work is not only of interest to the medical man, but also is
    one easily understood and to be read with profit by brain-workers of
    all classes, whether in profession, in literature or business. It
    treats of the cause of headaches, the wakefulness, the illusions or
    delusions, and feelings of tightness in the head, which so many of
    our American writers and thinkers experience, and it gives valuable
    information available by laymen as to the prevention and remedy for
    this affection, which later on leads to insanity or death."--Boston
    Traveller.

                              G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK.

                       FASTING GIRLS;

               THEIR PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY

                             BY

                  WILLIAM A. HAMMOND, M.D.

 PROFESSOR OF DISEASES OF THE MIND AND NERVOUS SYSTEM IN THE
     MEDICAL DEPARTMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF
      NEW YORK, AND IN THE UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT. ETC.

           "There is no new thing under the Sun."
                                         --Eccl. I, 9.

        "Nil spernat auris, nec tamen credat statim."
                                               --PHÆDRUS.

                          NEW YORK
                     G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS
                      182 FIFTH AVENUE
                            1879

     COPYRIGHT BY
 G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS.
        1879.

PREFACE.

In issuing this little book I have been actuated by a desire to do something towards the removal
of a lamentable degree of popular ignorance.

It seems that no proposition that can be made is so absurd or impossible but that many people,
ordinarily regarded as intelligent, will be found to accept it and to aid in its propagation.
And hence, when it is asserted that a young lady has lived for fourteen years without food
of any kind, hundreds and thousands of persons throughout the length and breadth of a civilized
land at once yield their belief to the monstrous declaration.

I have confined my remarks entirely to the question of abstinence from food. The other supernatural
gifts, the possession of which is claimed, would, if considered, have extended the limits of
this little volume beyond the bounds which were deemed expedient. At some future time I may
be tempted to discuss them. In the meantime it is well to call to mind that a proposition (see
Appendix) which I made solely in the interest of truth was disregarded, ostensibly with the
desire to avoid publicity, when in fact the daily press had for weeks been filled with reports
in detail, furnished by the friends of the young lady in question, of the marvellous powers
she was said to possess.

A portion of this essay, which bore upon the matter discussed, has been taken from another
volume by the author, published several years ago, and now out of print.

                                                   WILLIAM A. HAMMOND.

 43 WEST 54TH STREET,
  MARCH 1st, 1879.

CONTENTS

                                                   PAGE

   I  ABSTINENCE IN THE MIDDLE AGES                   1

  II  ABSTINENCE IN MODERN TIMES                      6

 III  ABSTINENCE FROM FOOD, WITH STIGMATIZATION      31

  IV  THE BROOKLYN CASE                              48

   V  THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF INANITION      59

FASTING GIRLS.

I.

ABSTINENCE IN THE MIDDLE AGES.

Among the many remarkable manifestations by which hysteria exhibits itself, for the astonishment
of the credulous and uneducated portion of the public, and--alas, that it should have to be
said,--for the delectation of an occasional weak-minded and ignorant physician, the assumption
of the ability to live without food may be assigned a prominent place. I am not aware that
this power has been claimed in its fullest development for the male of the human species. When
he is deprived of food he dies in a few days, more or less, according to his physical condition
as regards adipose tissue and strength of constitution; but if a weak emaciated girl asserts
that she is able to exist for years without eating, there are at once certificates and letters
from clergymen, professors, and even physicians, in support of the truth of her story. The
element of impossibility goes for nothing against the bare word of such a woman, and her statements
are accepted with a degree of confidence which is lamentable to witness in this era of the
world's progress.

The class of deceptions occasionally induced by hysteria, and embracing these "fasting girls,"
has been known for many years, though it is only in comparatively recent times that the instances
have been taken at their proper value. Görres[1] gives a number of examples occurring among
male and female saints and other holy persons, in which partial or total abstinence from food
was said to have existed for long periods.

Thus Liduine of Schiedam fell ill in 1395, and remained in that state till her death, thirty-three
years subsequently. During the first nineteen years she ate every day nothing but a little
piece of apple the size of a holy wafer, and drank a little water and a swallow of beer, or
sometimes a little sweet milk. Subsequently, being unable to digest beer and milk, she restricted
herself to a little wine and water, and still later she was obliged to confine herself to water
alone, which served her both as food and drink. But after nineteen years she took nothing whatever,
according to her own statement made to some friars in 1422, she averring that for eight years
nothing in the way of nourishment had passed her lips, and that for twenty years she had seen
neither the sun nor the moon, nor had touched the earth with her feet.

Saint Joseph of Copertino remained for five years without eating bread, and ten years without
drinking wine, contenting himself with dried fruits, which he mixed with various bitter herbs.
The herb which he used for Fridays had such an atrocious taste, that one of the brethren, by
simply putting his tongue to it, was seized with vomiting, and for several days thereafter
everything he ate excited nausea. He fasted for forty days seven times every year, and during
these periods ate nothing at all except on Sundays and Thursdays.

Nicolas of Flue, as soon as he embraced the monastic life, subsisted altogether on the holy
eucharist. The pious Görres in explanation of this miracle says:

"In ordinary nourishment he who eats being superior to that which is eaten, assimilates the
aliments which he takes, and communicates to them his own nature. But in the eucharist the
aliment is more powerful than he who eats. It is no longer therefore the nourishment which
is assimilated, but on the contrary, it assimilates the man, and introduces him into a superior
sphere. An entire change is produced. The supernatural life in some way or other absorbs the
natural life, and the man instead of living on earth, lives henceforth by grace and by heaven."

This is about on a par, as regards lucidity and logic, with the explanations which we are given
of the alleged case of prolonged fasting in Brooklyn.

Doubts arose in regard to Nicolas, and the bishop had him watched, but without detecting him
in fraud. Finally he ordered him to eat a piece of bread in his presence. Nicolas did as he
was commanded, but at the first mouthful he was seized with violent vomiting. The bishop inquired
of him how he thus managed to live without eating, to which the brother answered that when
he assisted at mass, and when he took the holy eucharist, he felt a degree of strength and
suppleness like that derived from the most nutritious food.

Still the doubters continued, and the inhabitants of Underwold, where Nicolas lived, appear
to have been at first very much inclined to suspect him of deceit. But they were finally converted,
for having during a whole month guarded every approach to his cabin, and having during that
time detected no one in taking food to him, they were convinced that for that time at least
he had lived without food. The sceptical reasoner of the present day would probably regard
the test as insufficient.

In 1225, Hugh, Bishop of Lincoln, having heard that there was at Leicester a nun who had taken
no nourishment for seven years, and who lived only on the eucharist, which she took every Sunday,
gave at first no faith to the story. He sent to her, however, fifteen clerks, with directions
to watch her assiduously for fifteen days, never for an instant losing sight of her. The clerks
reported to him that they had strictly obeyed his commands; that she had taken no nourishment,
and that yet she nevertheless preserved her full strength and health. Whereupon the Bishop
declared himself convinced, "as," adds Görres, "it was proper for a sensible man to do."

Among others of the holy persons who acquired the power of living on the sacramental bread,
may be mentioned St. Catharine of Sienna, Saint Rose of Lima, Saint Collete, Saint Peter of
Alcantara, and many others.

But if saints and other holy people were able, through miraculous power, to live without food,
the same ability was claimed for those who were under the influence of demons and devils. Görres[2]
states that a person possessed by a devil often loses all taste for food of any kind, and can
retain no nourishment in his body. Another symptom is a disgust which is formed for the companionship
of other persons. Thus a man was tormented by a demon, who forced him to fly into the forests,
where he hid himself from mankind. One night he quit his house, and concealed himself in a
cavern, remaining there entirely without food for sixteen days. Again he remained in the woods
twenty-four days, neither eating nor drinking during this period. Finally his children found
him, and taking him to a priest, had the devil exorcised, and he was cured.

Saint Prosper, of Aquitaine, speaks of a young girl possessed by a devil, and who went seventy
days without eating. Notwithstanding this long fast, she did not become emaciated, because
every night at twelve o'clock a bird sent by the devil took a mysterious nourishment to her.

An astonishing feature in the cases of the diabolical abstaining from food, is that, as in
the holy instances, they exhibit various manifestations of hysteria. Görres, with a charming
degree of simplicity, details these symptoms and failing, under the influence of the predominant
idea which fills him, to recognize their real character, ascribes them without hesitation to
devilish agency. Thus he says:

"The functions of the organs of nutrition are sometimes profoundly altered in the possessed,
and these alterations are manifested by violent cramps, which show the extent to which the
muscular system is affected. The hysterical lump in the throat is a frequent phenomenon in
possession. A young girl in the Valley of Calepino had all her limbs twisted and contracted,
and had in the œsophagus a sensation as if a ball was sometimes rising in her throat, and again
falling to her stomach. Her countenance was of an ashen hue, and she had a constant sense of
weight and pain in the head. All the remedies of physicians had failed, and as evidences of
possession were discovered in her, she was brought to Brignoli (a priest) who had recourse
to supernatural means, and cured her."

Strange to say, the ability to live on the eucharist, and to resist starvation by diabolical
power, died out with the middle ages, and was replaced by the "fasting girls," who still continue
to amuse us with their vagaries. To the consideration of some of the more striking instances
of more recent times the attention of the reader is invited, in the confidence that much of
interest in the study of the "History of Human Folly" will be adduced.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] La Mystique Divine, Naturelle et Diabolique. Paris, 1861. t. I., p. 194, et seq.

[2] Op. cit. t. IV., p. 446.

II.

ABSTINENCE IN MODERN TIMES.

Among the more striking cases under this head, is that of Margaret Weiss, a young girl ten
years of age, who lived at Rode, a small village near Spires, and whose history has come down
to us through various channels, but principally from Gerardus Bucoldianus,[3] who had the medical
charge of her, and who wrote a little book describing his patient. Margaret is said to have
abstained from all food and drink for three years, in the meantime growing, walking about,
laughing, and talking like other children of her age. During the first year, however, she suffered
greatly from pains in her head and abdomen, and, a common condition in hysteria--all four of
her limbs were contracted. She passed neither urine nor fæces. Margaret, though only ten years
old--hysteria develops the secretive faculties--played her part so well that, after being watched
by the priest of the parish and Dr. Bucoldianus, she was considered free from all juggling,
and was sent home to her friends by order of the King, "not," the doctor adds, "without great
admiration and princely gifts." Although fully accepting the fact of Margaret's abstinence,
Dr. Bucoldianus appears to have been somewhat staggered, for he asks very pertinently: "Whence
comes the animal heat, since she neither eats nor drinks, and why does the body grow when nothing
goes into it?"

Schenckius[4] quotes from Paulus Lentulus the "Wonderful History of the Fasting of Appolonia
Schreira, a virgin in Berne." Lentulus states that he was with this maid on three occasions,
and that, by order of the magistrate of Berne, she was taken to that city and a strict guard
kept upon her. All kinds of means were set in operation to detect imposture if any existed,
but none was discovered, and she was set at liberty as a genuine case of ability to live without
food. In the first year of her fasting she scarcely slept, and in the second year never closed
her eyes in sleep; and so she continued for a long while after.

Schenckius also advances the case of Katharine Binder, of the Palatinate, who was closely watched
by a clergyman, a statesman, and two doctors of medicine, without the detection of fraud on
her part. She was said to have taken nothing but air into her system for nine years and more,
as Lentulus reported on the authority of Fabricius. This last-named physician told Lentulus
of another case, that of a girl fourteen years old, who certainly had taken neither food nor
drink for at least three years.

"But," says Dr. Hakewel,[5] "the strangest that I have met with of this kind, is the history
of Eve Fliegen, out of Dutch translated into English, and printed at London, anno 1611, who,
being born at Meurs, is said to have taken no kind of sustenance for the space of fourteen
years together; that is, from the year of her age, twenty-two to thirty-six, and from the year
of our Lord 1597 to 1611; and this we have confirmed by the testimony of the magistrates of
the town of Meurs, as also by the minister who made trial of her in his house thirteen days
together by all the means he could devise, but could detect no imposture." Over the picture
of this maid, set in front of the Dutch copy, stand these Latin verses:

    "Meursæ hæc quam cernis decies ter, sexque peregit,
    Annos, bis septem prorsus non viscitur annis
    Nec potat, sic sola sedet, sic pallida vitam
    Ducit, et exigui se oblectat floribus horti."

Thus rendered in the English copy:

    "This maid of Meurs thirty and six years spent,
    Fourteen of which she took no nourishment;
    Thus pale and wan she sits sad and alone,
    A garden's all she loves to look upon."

Franciscus Citesius,[6] physician to the King of France and to Cardinal Richelieu, devotes
a good deal of space and attention to the case of Joan Balaam, a native of the city of Constance.
She was well grown, but of bad manners. About the eleventh year of her age she was attacked
with a fever, and among other symptoms vomited for twenty days. Then she became speechless
and so continued for twenty-four days. Then she talked, but her speech was raving and incoherent.
Finally she lost all power of motion and of sensibility in the parts below the head and could
not swallow. From thenceforth she could not be persuaded to take food. Six months afterwards
she regained the use of her limbs, but the inability to swallow remained and she acquired a
great loathing for all kinds of meat and drink. The secretions and excretions appeared to be
arrested. Nevertheless she was very industrious, employing her time in running errands, sweeping
the house, spinning, and such like. This maid continued thus fasting for the space of nearly
three years, and then by degrees took to eating and drinking again.

Before coming to more recent cases, there is one other to which I desire to refer for the reason
mainly that in it there was probably organic disease in addition to fraud and hysteria. It
is cited by Fabricius[7] and by Wanley. Anno Dom., 1595, a maid of about thirteen years was
brought out of the dukedom of Juliers to Cologne, and there in a broad street at the sign of
the White Horse exposed to the sight of as many as desired to see her. The parents of this
maid affirmed that she had lived without any kind of food or drink for the space of three whole
years; and this they confirmed by the testimony of divers persons, such as are worthy of credit.
Fabricius observed her with great care. She was of a sad and melancholy countenance; her whole
body was sufficiently fleshy except only her belly, which was compressed so as that it seemed
to cleave to her back-bone. Her liver and the rest of her bowels were perceived to be hard
by laying the hand on the belly. As for excrements, she voided none; and did so far abhor all
kinds of food, that when one, who came to see her privately, put a little sugar in her mouth
she immediately swooned away. But what was most wonderful was, that this maid walked up and
down, played with other girls, danced, and did all other things that were done by girls of
her age; neither had she any difficulty of breathing, speaking or crying out. Her parents declared
that she had been in this condition for three years.

A great many more to the same effect might be adduced, but the foregoing are sufficient to
indicate the fact that belief in the possibility of such occurrences was quite general, and
that if doubt did exist in regard to their real nature, it was not so strong as not readily
to be overcome by the tricks and devices of hysterical women.

In the following instances of more modern date the reader will perceive the view which is taken
of them by physicians of the present day, and will doubtless discover their real nature.

About sixty-five years ago, a woman of Sudbury, in Staffordshire, England, named Ann Moore,
declared that she did not eat, and a number of persons volunteered to watch her, in order to
ascertain whether or not she was speaking the truth. The watch was continued for three weeks
and then the watchers, as in other instances, reported that Ann Moore was a real case of abstinence
from food of all kinds. The Bible was always kept open on Ann's bed. Her emaciation was so
extreme that it was said her vertebral column could be felt through the abdominal walls. This
sad condition was asserted to have been caused by her washing the linen of a person affected
with ulcers. From that time she experienced a dislike for food, and even nausea at the sight
or mention of it.

As soon as the watchers reported in favor of the genuineness of Ann's pretensions her notoriety
increased, and visitors came from all parts of the country, leaving donations to the extent
of two hundred and fifty pounds in the course of two years. Doubts, however, again arose, and,
bold from the immunity she had experienced from the first investigation, Ann in an evil moment,
for the continuance of her fraud, consented to a second watching. This committee was composed
of notable persons, among them being Sir Oswald Mosley, Bart., Rev. Legh Richmond, Dr. Fox,
and his son, and many other gentlemen of the country. Two of them were always in her room night
and day. At the suggestion of Mr. Francis Fox, the bedstead, bedding, and the woman in it were
placed on a weighing machine, and thus it was ascertained that she regularly lost weight daily.
At the expiration of the ninth day of this strict watching, Dr. Fox found her evidently sinking
and told her she would soon die unless she took food. After a little prevarication, the woman
signed a written confession that she was an impostor, and had "occasionally taken sustenance
for the last six years." She also stated that during the first watch of three weeks her daughter
had contrived, when washing her face, to feed her every morning, by using towels made very
wet with gravy, milk, or strong arrowroot gruel, and had also conveyed food from mouth to mouth
in kissing her, which it is presumed she did very often.[8]

In a clinical lecture delivered at St. George's Hospital,[9] Dr. John W. Ogle calls attention
to the simulation of fasting as a manifestation of hysteria, and relates the following amusing
case:

"A girl strongly hysterical, aged twenty, in spite of all persuasion and medical treatment,
refused every kind of food, or if made to eat, soon vomited the contents of the stomach. On
November 6th, 1869, whilst the girl was apparently suffering in the same manner, the Queen
passed the hospital on her way to open Blackfriars Bridge. She arose in bed so as to look out
of the window, although up to this time declaring that every movement of her body caused intense
pain. On December 29, the following letter in the girl's handwriting, addressed to another
patient in the same ward, was picked up from the floor: 'My Dear Mrs. Evens,--I was very sorry
you should take the trouble of cutting me such a nice piece of bread and butter, yesterday.
I would of taken it but all of them saw you send it, and then they would have made enough to
have talked about. But I should be very glad if you would cut me a nice piece of crust and
put it in a piece of paper and send it, or else bring it, so that they do not see it, for they
all watch me very much, and I should like to be your friend and you to be mine. Mrs. Winslow,
(the nurse) is going to chapel. I will make it up with you when I can go as far. Do not send
it if you cannot spare it. Good bye, and God bless you.' Although she prevaricated about this
letter, she appears to have gradually improved from this time on, and one day walked out of
the hospital and left it altogether. She subsequently wrote a letter to the authorities expressing
her regret at having gone on as she did."

One of the most remarkable instances of the kind, is that of Sarah Jacob, known as the "Welsh
Fasting Girl," and whose history and tragical death excited a great deal of comment in the
medical and lay press in Great Britain a few years ago. The following account of the case is
mainly derived from Dr. Fowler's[10] interesting work.

Sarah Jacob was born May 12th, 1857. Her parents were farmers and were uneducated, simple-minded,
and ignorant persons. In her earlier years she had been healthy, was intelligent, given to
religious reading, and was said to have written poetry of her own composition. She was a very
pretty child and was, according to the testimony of the vicar, the Rev. Evan Jones, a "good girl."

About February 15th, 1867, when she was not quite ten years of age, she complained of pain
in the pit of the stomach, and one morning on getting up, she told her mother that she had
found her mouth full of bloody froth. The pain continued, and medical attendance was obtained.
Soon afterwards she had strong convulsions of an epileptiform character and then other spasms
of a clearly hysterical form, during which her body was bent in the form of a bow as in tetanus,
the head and heels only touching the bed. Then the muscular spasm ceased and she fell at full
length on the bed. For a whole month she continued in a state of unconsciousness, suffering
from frequent repetitions of severe convulsive attacks, during which time she took little food.
Mr. Davies, the surgeon, said in his evidence, that she was for a whole month, in a kind of
permanent fit, lying on her back, with rigidity of all the muscles. For some time her life
was despaired of, then her fits ceased to be convulsive and consisted of short periods of loss
of consciousness with sudden awakings. For the next two or three months (till August, 1867)
she took daily, from six, gradually decreasing to four, teacupfuls of rice and milk, or oatmeal
and milk, which according to her father's account, was cast up again immediately and blood
and froth with it. During this time the bowels were only acted on once in six or nine days.
"Up to this time," said her father, "she could move both arms and one leg, but the other leg
was rigid."

By the beginning of October, 1867, her quantity of daily food had, it was affirmed, dwindled
down to nothing but a little apple about the size of a pill, which she took from a tea-spoon.
At this time she made water about every other day; she looked very bad in the face, but was
not thin. On the tenth day of October, it was solemnly declared that she ceased to take any
food whatever, and so continued till the day of her death, December 17th, 1869, a period of
two years, two months, and one week.

"Of the veracity of the assertion in respect of the one week," says Dr. Fowler, "there is unfortunately
plenty of evidence. To the absurdity of believing in the barest possibility of twenty-six months
absolute abstinence, it is sufficient to reply that when to our knowledge, she was completely
deprived of food, the girl died! The parents most persistently impressed upon every private
as well as official visitor, both before and during the last fatal watching, that the girl
did not take food; that she could not swallow; that whenever food was mentioned to her she
became as it were, excited; that when it was offered to her she would have a fit, or the offer
would make her ill. The sworn testimony of the vicar, the Rev. Wm. Thomas, Sister Clinch, Ann
Jones, and the other nurses, is sufficiently confirmative on this point. Furthermore, the parents
went so far as to expressly forbid the mere mention of food in the girl's presence."

Towards the end of October, 1867, the case had attracted so much attention that the inhabitants
in the neighborhood first began visiting the marvellous little girl.

"In the beginning of November of the same year, the Rev. Evan Jones, B.D., the vicar of the
parish, was sent for by the parents to visit Sarah Jacob. He was at once--by the mother--told
of the girl's wonderful fasting powers; it was admitted she took water occasionally. He was
also informed of the extraordinary perversion of her natural functions (the suppression of
urine and fæcal evacuations.) He found her lying on her back in bed, which was covered with
books. There was nothing then remarkable about her dress. The girl looked weak and delicate,
though not pale, and answered only in monosyllables. 'The mother said her child was very anxious
about the state of her soul, that it had such an effect upon her mind that she could not sleep.'
I asked her myself if she had a desire to become a member of the Church of England? She said,
'Yes!' She continued to express that wish until July, 1869. At this time the reverend gentleman
did not believe in the statements relative to the girl's abstinence. 'Every time,' he says,
'that I had a conversation with her up to the end of 1868, the parents both persisted that
she lived without food, and continued their statements in January and February, 1869. I remonstrated
with them and dwelt upon the apparent impossibility of the thing. They still persisted that
it was a fact.'

"Even as late as September, 1869, the vicar reiterated his ministerial remonstrances. When,
in the beginning of the spring of 1869, he observed the fantastical changes the parents made
in the girl's daily attire, he told them about the remarks made in the papers about this dressing
and dwelt upon the impropriety of it. They replied, 'She had no other pleasure--they did not
like denying it to her.' During the following summer, finding that the girl looked more plump
in the face and that her general improvement was more conspicuous, he said, 'Sarah is evidently
improving and gaining, and you say she takes no food; you are certainly imposing on the public.'
I then dwelt on the sinfulness of continuing the fraud on the public. I said there were on
record several cases of alleged fasting, some of which had been put to the test and had been
discovered to be impositions; that those families would ever be held in execration by posterity,
and such would be the case with them whenever this imposture was found out. The mother then
assured me no imposition would be discovered in that house, because there was none."

The father and mother both said that the Lord provided for her in a most natural way, and that
it was a miracle. The father always talked about the "Doctor Mawr," meaning God Almighty; that
she was supported by that "Big Doctor."

Then soon began the custom of leaving money or other presents with the child, till at last
every one who visited her, was expected to give something. Open house was kept and pilgrims
came from near and far to see the wonderful girl who lived without food.

When money was not forthcoming, presents of clothes, finery, books, or flowers, appear to have
been substituted. Advantage was taken of these presents to bedeck the child in every variety
of smartness. At one time she had a victorine about her neck and a wreath about her hair, then
again, ornaments and a jacket on, and her hair neatly dressed with ribbons. At another time
she had a silk shawl, a victorine around her neck, a small crucifix attached to a necklace,
and little ribbons above the wrists. She had drab gloves on and her bed was nearly covered
with books.

Notwithstanding the alleged fasting, Sarah Jacob continued to improve in health.

And now comes an astounding feature of this most remarkable case. The vicar became convinced
that the instance was one of real abstinence. A little hysterical girl twelve years of age,
by her perseverance in lying, had actually succeeded in inducing an educated gentleman to accept
the truth of her statements! The following letter which was published on the 19th of February,
1869, speaks for itself:--

                              "A STRANGE CASE.

    "To the Editor of the Welshman.

    "Sir: Allow me to invite the attention of your readers to a most
    extraordinary case. Sarah Jacob, a little girl twelve years of age,
    and daughter of Mr. Evan Jacob, Lletherneuadd, in this parish, has
    not partaken of a single grain of any kind of food whatever, during
    the last sixteen months. She did occasionally swallow a few drops of
    water during the first few months of this period; but now she does
    not even do that. She still looks pretty well in the face and
    continues in the possession of all her mental faculties. She is in
    this and several other respects, a wonderful little girl.

    "Medical men persist in saying that the thing is quite impossible,
    but all the nearest neighbors, who are thoroughly acquainted with
    the circumstances of the case, entertain no doubt whatever of the
    subject, and I am myself of the same opinion.

    "Would it not be worth their while for medical men to make an
    investigation into the nature of this strange case? Mr. Evan Jacob
    would readily admit into his house any respectable person who might
    be anxious to watch it and to see for himself.

    "I may add, that Lletherneuadd is a farm-house about a mile from New
    Inn, in this parish.

                          "Yours faithfully,

                                  "THE VICAR OF LLANFIHANGEL-AR-ARTH."

The suggestions of the vicar relative to an investigation, were soon after afterwards acted
upon by certain gentlemen of the neighborhood. A public meeting was called and a committee
of watchers was appointed to be constantly in attendance in the room with Sarah Jacob, and
to observe to the best of their ability, whether or not she took any food during the investigation.
It was agreed that the watching was to continue for a fortnight.

Prior to the beginning of this watching, no precautions were taken against food being conveyed
into the room and concealed there. The parents actually debarred the watchers from touching
the child's bed. The very first element of success was therefore denied, and no wonder that
the whole affair was subsequently regarded as an absurdity. The watching consisted in two different
men taking alternate watches from eight till eight. The watching to see whether the child partook
of food, commenced on March 22d, and ended April 5th, 1869--a period of fourteen days.

During the above fortnight, one of the watchers, in turn, was always close to her bed, and
in her sight day and night, and at the time the bed was being made, which was generally every
other morning, the four persons were always present and had every article thoroughly examined.
The parents were allowed to go near the bed, as also was the little sister, six years old,
who had been Sarah's constant companion and bed-fellow.

On Wednesday, April 7th, 1869, a public meeting was held at the Eagle Inn, Llandyfeil, to hear
the statements of the parents and of the several persons who had watched the child during the
fourteen days. The parents briefly detailed the condition and symptoms of their daughter from
the commencement of her illness. At no time during the whole fourteen days did the pulse ever
reach above ninety per minute, although exceedingly changeable, as it always had been. The
following evidence was received from the watchers, and it is said that their statements were
duly verified on oath before a magistrate:--

Watcher No. 1 said: I, Evan Edward Smith, watched Sarah Jacob for two consecutive nights, (i.
e., nights 22d and 23d of March) at the request of Mr. H. H. Davies, surgeon. The parents gave
every facility to investigate the matter. I watched her with all possible care, and found nothing
to suspect that food or drink was given her by foul means. I am quite sure she had nothing
during my watch. I was dismissed on account of being suspected to doze on the second night.

Watcher No. 2. This watcher watched Sarah Jacob for a whole fortnight, and found no indications
that the child had anything to eat or drink. He was a college student, Daniel Harris Davies.

Watcher No. 3. John Jones, a shopkeeper, gave similar evidence. He was a decided sceptic before
he began watching, but after twelve days was thoroughly convinced of the fact that nothing
in the shape of nourishment was given to the poor child. He watched every movement of all the
inmates, and found nothing that would lead him to suspect that any nourishment was given to
the little girl.

Watcher No. 4. James Harris Davies, a medical student, spoke in like manner, and was perfectly
positive that nothing had been given to her during the fortnight he had watched there, with
the exception of three drops of water, once, to moisten her lips with. He was as great a sceptic
as any one before he began watching, but as he saw nothing to confirm his suspicions, he could
conscientiously say that nothing had been given her during his watch.

Watcher No. 5. Evan Davies, of Powel Castle, who only watched her for one day, gave similar
evidence, but as he was a neighbour he was dismissed for a stranger.

Watcher No. 6. Herbert Jones, watched only one day, and spoke in a similar manner, and was
dismissed on account of his credulity.

Watcher No. 7. Thomas Davies, who had been the greatest sceptic of all, was strongly convinced.
He watched Sarah Jacob twelve days, and was quite positive that nothing could have been given
her during his watch. He watched her with all possible care, and was very cautious to be in
a prominent place, where Sarah Jacob's mouth was always in sight.

Evidence, however, was given which went to show that the watching was very imperfectly performed;
that occasionally the watchers left before their time had expired; that intoxicating liquors
were taken by them to the house, and that one of them was drunk while there. It was also shown
that the father and mother had free access to the bed, while the watchers were absolutely prohibited
from examining it. It is therefore with entire justification that Dr. Fowler states that the
watching "was the greatest possible farce and mockery."

After the report of the watchers the notoriety of Sarah Jacob of course became still greater;
crowds came to visit her, and among others the Rev. Frederic Rowland Young went to see her,
and made an unsuccessful effort to cure her by laying on of hands. When Dr. Fowler visited
her, August 30th, 1869, on getting out at the nearest railway station, he was met by little
boys bearing placards with the words "Fasting Girl," and "This is the shortest way to Llethernoryadd-ucha,"
on them. In his letter to the Times, giving an account of his visit, Dr. Fowler says:--

"The first impression was most unfavorable, and to a medical man the appearances were most
suspicious. The child was lying on a bed decorated as a bride, having around her head a wreath
of flowers, from which was suspended a smart ribbon, the ends of which were joined by a small
bunch of flowers, after the present fashion of ladies' bonnet strings. Before her, at proper
reading distance, was an open Welsh book, supported by two other books on her body. The blanket
covering was clean, tidy, and perfectly smooth. Across the fire-place, which was nearly opposite
the foot of her bed, was an arrangement of shelves, well stocked with English and Welsh books,
the gifts of various visitors to the house. The child is thirteen years of age, and is undoubtedly
very pretty. Her face was plump, and her cheeks and lips of a beautiful rosy color. Her eyes
were bright and sparkling, the pupils were very dilated, in a measure explicable by the fact
of the child's head and face being shaded from the window-light by the projecting side of the
cupboard bedstead. There was that restless movement and frequent looking out at the corners
of the eyes so characteristic of simulative disease. Considering the lengthened inactivity
of the girl, her muscular development was very good, and the amount of fat layer not inconsiderable.
My friend stated that she looked even better than she did about a twelvemonth ago. There was
a slight perspiration over the surface of the body. The pulse was perfectly natural, as were
also the sounds of the lungs and heart, so far as I was enabled to make a stethoscopic examination.
Having received permission to do this, I proceeded to make the necessary derangement of dress,
when the girl went off into what the mother called a fainting fit. This consisted of nothing
but a little and momentary hysterical crying and sobbing. The color never left the lips or
cheeks. The pulse remained of the same power. Consciousness could have been but slightly diminished,
inasmuch as on my then opening the eyelids I perceived a distinct upward and other movement
of the eyeballs. Each percussion stroke of my examination, and even the pressure of the stethoscope,
produced an expression of pain, which elicited a natural sympathy from the mother, and an assertion
that a continuance of such examination would bring on further fits. On percussing the region
of the stomach, I most distinctly perceived the sound of gurgling, which we know to be caused
by the admixture of air and fluid in motion. The most positive assertion of the parents was
subsequently made that saving a fortnightly moistening of her lips with cold water, the child
had neither ate nor drank anything for the last twenty-three months. The whole region of the
belly was tympanitic, and the muscular walls of this cavity were tense and drum-like--a condition
not infrequently concomitant of a well-known class of nervous disorders. The child's intellectual
faculties and special senses were perfectly healthy. Before her illness she was very much devoted
to religious reading. This devotion has lately considerably increased. She is a member of the
Church of England, and has been confirmed."

Dr. Fowler then adds some other interesting particulars, all going to show the impossibility
of the girl's being the subject of any exhausting disease, or of even having been continuously
in bed, as her parents asserted, for nearly two years; and then says:--

"The whole case is in fact one of simulative hysteria, in a young girl having the propensity
to deceive very strongly developed. Therewith may be probably associated the power or habit
of prolonged fasting. Both patient and mother admitted the occasional occurrence of the choking
sensation called globus hystericus."

This letter excited renewed discussion in the newspapers, and a second public meeting was called
to make arrangements for a second watching. At this meeting it was decided to bring down from
Guy's Hospital, London, several trained nurses, who were to conduct the watching; and the following
resolutions were adopted, as expressing the terms under which the inquiry was to be conducted:--

1. It would be advisable, before taking any steps in the matter, to obtain a written legal
guarantee from the father of Sarah Jacob sanctioning the necessary proceedings. 2. That the
duty of the nurses shall be to watch Sarah Jacob with a view to ascertain whether she partakes
of any kind of food, and at the end of a fortnight to report upon the case before the local
committee in Carmarthenshire, and, if required, at Guy's Hospital. 3. That two nurses shall
be constantly awake and on the watch in the girl's room, night and day. 4. It would be advisable
for the nearest medical practitioner to watch the progress of the case; and it will be absolutely
necessary for him to be prepared against any serious symptoms of exhaustion, supervening on
the strict enforcement of the watching, and to act according to his judgment. 5. That the room
in which the girl sleeps shall be bared of all unnecessary furniture, and all possible places
in the room for the concealment of food shall be closed and kept under the continual scrutiny
of the watchers. 6. That if considered desirable by the local medical practitioner, or by the
nurses, the bedstead on which the girl now lies shall be replaced by a single iron one. 7.
That the bed on which the parents now sleep, in Sarah Jacob's room, shall be given up absolutely
to the nurses. 8. That the parents be not allowed to sleep in the same room as the girl; that
if they cannot at all times be prevented from approaching her, they should be previously searched
(their pockets and other recesses of clothing as well as the interior of their mouths); and
that no wetted towels or other such articles be allowed to be used about the girl by the parents,
or any other person save the nurses; that the children of the family, and in fact every other
person whatever (except the nurses), have similar restraints put upon them. 9. That the nurses
have the sole management of preparing the room, bed, and patient, prior to the commencement
of the watching. 10. That, as it is asserted the action of the bowels and bladder is entirely
suspended, special attention must be directed to these organs.

Four experienced women nurses were accordingly deputed from Guy's Hospital to take the entire
charge of Sarah Jacob, and to watch her for fourteen days. They were instructed not to prevent
her having food if she asked for it, but they were to see that she got none without their knowledge.
On the 9th of December, 1869, at 4 P.M., the room was cleared of people and the watching began.

In the first place it was ascertained that the girl had repeated evacuations of urine, and
once, at least, of fæces.

Gradually evidences of mental and physical disturbance began to appear. The watch was so closely
kept that no food or drink reached the child, and she did not ask for any.

"At 10 P.M.," to quote the language of the journal kept by the sister nurse, "she was restless
and threw her arms about. She was very cold, and the nurses put warm flannels on her. This
was the last day on which she passed urine."

Thursday, December 16, 3 A.M.--She was rolling from one side of the bed to the other. At half-past
three she wished the bed made, and they made it. She was looking very pale and anxious. Her
eyes were sunk and her nose pinched, and the cheek bones were prominent. Her arms and hands
were cold, her feet and legs were the same. Ann Jones, one of the nurses, says in her memoranda,
"She was very restless and appeared to me to be sinking. Her lips were very dry, and her mouth
seemed parched." The peculiar smell (the starvation smell) about the bed was so strong as to
make the sister nurse quite ill.

At 11 A.M., the vicar saw her and told the parents that the child was gradually failing, and
suggested to them the propriety of sending the nurses away and giving her a chance to obtain
food, but they refused, saying that there was nothing to do but what the nurses were doing,
and that they had seen her quite as weak before. The parents were urged by others to give up
the fight by sending the nurses away, but they refused on the ground that want of food had
nothing to do with the symptoms, and that she would not eat whether the nurses were there or not.

Ann Jones subsequently testified before the coroner: "Before one and two o'clock on Thursday
afternoon (Dec. 16), she kept talking to herself. I could not understand whether she was speaking
Welsh or English. Up to that time I could understand her. She pointed her fingers at some books;
I gave her one, but she took no notice of it; she was not able to read it. Both parents were
then told the girl was dying."

Repeatedly they were begged to withdraw the nurses, and again and again they refused, saying
there was no occasion--that she had often been in that way, that it was not from want of food,
etc. The girl became weaker and weaker; low, muttering delirium ensued, and on the 17th of
December, 1869, at about half-past three o'clock, P.M., the "Welsh Fasting Girl" died, actually
starved to death, in the middle of the nineteenth century and in one of the most Christian
and civilized countries of the world!

But this was not the end. Public opinion was much excited both against those who had sanctioned
and conducted what appeared to have been a senseless and cruel experiment, and against the
father and mother who had wilfully and persistently refused to allow food to be given to the
dying child. A coroner's inquest was held, and the coroner appears to have made a very satisfactory
charge to the jury after the rendition of the testimony. He said there could be no doubt of
the child having died of starvation, and that the responsibility rested with the father, who
had knowingly and designedly failed to cause his child to take food. The mother was not responsible
unless it could be shown that she had been given food for the child by the father, and had
withheld it from her. It was marvellous, he said, how the father could have made out such a
story--such a hideous mass of nonsense, as he had under oath attempted to impose on the jury.

The jury deliberated for a quarter of an hour, and then returned a verdict of "Died from starvation,
caused by negligence to induce the child to take food on the part of the father;" which constituted
manslaughter.

Evan Jacob was therefore arrested. But the Secretary of State for the Home Department took
the matter up and determined that the proceedings should go farther than the local authorities
intended. At first it was contemplated to indict the members of the General Committee for conspiracy,
but it was finally concluded to include only the medical gentlemen who had accepted the responsibility
of superintending the watching, as well as both parents of the deceased child.

The initial proceeding took place before a full bench of magistrates, and continued eight days.
The Crown and the accused had eminent counsel, and many witnesses were examined. At the conclusion
of the inquiry the presiding magistrate announced that it had been determined by the court
that no case had been made out against the physicians, who had not been shown to have undertaken
any other duty than that of advising the nurses, and that it did not appear that their advice
had been asked. As to the father and mother the court had decided to send them both for trial
for manslaughter, at the next assizes. In due time they were arraigned, they pleaded not guilty,
but after being defended by able counsel, the jury, after an absence of about half an hour,
returned with a verdict of guilty against both the prisoners, but with a recommendation of
the mother to the merciful consideration of the court, on the ground that she was under the
control of her husband. The man protested his innocence, and the woman "buried her face in
her shawl and wept bitterly."

His Lordship, in passing sentence, said: "Prisoners at the bar, you have been found guilty
of a most aggravated offence. I entirely concur with the verdict which the jury have given,
and I shall act upon the recommendation which they have presented in favor of the female prisoner,
the mother, though, I must say, that I cannot but feel that it is a greater crime in the mother
than the father, since it is more contrary to the common nature of mothers, to neglect their
children in the manner in which you have treated this unfortunate child. It is contrary to
the nature, even, of a father. But I shall act upon the recommendation of the jury, upon the
ground they have put forward, that you have been subject to the control of your husband more
than has appeared from the evidence of the case. But the offence is, as I have said, a serious
one, on this ground; that there can be no doubt that both of you have persisted in this fraudulent
deception, upon your neighbors, and upon the public, and that in order to carry out that fraudulent
deception and to preserve yourselves from detection you were willing to risk the life of that
child. The life of that child has been lost in that wicked experiment which you tried. Therefore,
the sentence that I shall inflict on you, Evan Jacob, is, that you be imprisoned and kept at
hard labor for twelve calendar months; and that upon you, Hannah Jacob, will be more lenient
in consideration of the recommendation of the jury, and it is, that you be imprisoned and kept
to hard labor for the period of six calendar months."

Thus ended one of the most remarkable and interesting histories of human folly, credulity,
and criminality which the present day has produced. Comment upon its teaching is scarcely necessary;
but the thoughtful reader will not fail to perceive how important a bearing it has upon the
whole subject of belief without full and free inquiry, and that how all the facts which science
has gathered during ages of painful labor, go for naught, even with educated persons, when
brought face to face with the false assertions of a hysterical girl, and of two ignorant and
deceitful peasants. If there is any one thing we know, it is that there can be no force without
the metamorphosis of matter of some kind. Here was a girl maintaining her weight--actually
growing--her animal heat kept at its due standard, her mind active, her heart beating, her
lungs respiring, her skin exhaling, her limbs moving whenever she wished them to move, and
all, as very many persons supposed, without the ingestion of the material by which alone such
things could be. And yet such is the tendency of the average human mind to be deceived, that
it would be perfectly possible to re-enact in the city of New York the whole tragedy of Sarah
Jacob, should ever a hysterical girl take it into head to do so; and there would not be wanting,
even from among those who might read this history, individuals who would credit any monstrous
declarations she might make. Even now in a little town in Belgium, an ecstatic girl is going
through the same performance with extraordinary additions, and books are written by learned
physicians and theologians, with the object of establishing the truth of her pretensions. To
this most remarkable instance, and one other of similar though perhaps even more remarkable
characteristic, the attention of the reader will presently be invited. But in view of these
things one is almost tempted to say with Cardinal Carafa, "Quandoquidem populus decipi vult,
decipiatur."

FOOTNOTES:

[3] "De puella quæ sine cibo et potu vitam transigit." Parisiis Ann. MDXLII.

[4] "Παρατηρήσεων sive observationum medicarum, rararum, novarum, admirabilium, et monstrosarum.
Volumen, tomis septem de toto homine institutum." Lugduni 1606, p. 306.

These cases are cited by Wanley in his "Wonders of the Little World," but I have taken care
in most instances to refer to the originals, several of which are in my library.

[5] "Wonders of the Little World." London, 1806, p. 375.

[6] Opuscula Medica. Parisiis, 1639, pp. 64, 65, 66.

[7] Observationum et curationum chirurgicarum, centuria secunda. Genevæ, 1611, p. 116.

[8] Wonderful Characters: By Henry Wilson and James Caulfield. London.

[9] British Medical Journal, July 16, 1870.

[10] A complete History of the Welsh Fasting Girl (Sarah Jacob,) with Comments thereon, and
Observations on Death from Starvation. London, 1871.

III.

ABSTINENCE FROM FOOD WITH STIGMATIZATION.

One hundred and fifty-three persons have at one time or another, according to Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre,[11]
received the stigmata; that is, been marked in a miraculous manner with the wounds received
by Christ at the crucifixion. Of these, eight, are according to the same authority now living,
and two assert that they do not eat. I propose to consider at some length the main points in
the histories of these two, Palma d'Oria and Louise Lateau, and in so doing I shall avail myself
of the works of those, who are firm believers in the miraculous interposition of God to produce
the effects, of which they are said to be the subjects. These cases are very little known in
this country. Instances of the kind are extremely rare among practical common sense nations,
like those inhabiting the British Isles, and their descendants in America. Of the whole one
hundred and fifty-three cases recorded by Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre, but one--Jane Gray--was British,
and hers is the most doubtful case in the list, for the fact rests only on the testimony of
one Thomas Bourchier, an English minor brother, who asserts that she had the stigmata in the
feet. Of the remainder, the very large majority are of Italy, and as Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre says:

"Quel pays fut jamais si fertile en miracles?"[12]

To the account of a visit made to Oria for the purpose of studying the phenomena exhibited
by Palma, made by Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre, I am indebted for the following details:

Palma, at the time of the visit in 1871, was sixty-six years old, hump-backed, thin, small,
and with light, expressive eyes. For several years she had not left the house, and was, on
account of her sufferings, scarcely able to walk. Occasionally, when she felt particularly
well, she took a few steps about the room supported by a cane. In her youth she had been very
strong and active.

At the first interview, after some conversation in the course of which Palma declared that
she had often seen Louise Lateau while in ecstasy, the doctor directed the conversation towards
the subject of hallucination. While thus engaged and seated close to Palma, he felt her strike
him gently on the arm, and at the same time saw the abbé, who had come with him, fall on his
knees. He turned toward Palma; her eyes were closed, her hands clasped, her mouth wide open,
and on her tongue he saw the host--the body of Christ. Immediately, he fell on his knees also,
and worshipped it. Palma protruded her tongue still farther, as if she wanted to give him every
opportunity of seeing that the host was really there; then she ate it, closed her mouth and
remained perfectly quiet on the sofa upon which she was reclining. It was then almost four
o'clock in the afternoon, the day was fading, the room was badly lit by a little window, high
from the floor. The miraculous host appeared to him to be as white as wax, and somewhat thick.
On account of the little light, and the short time that this extraordinary communion lasted,
he was unable to determine whether or not it was marked according to the custom of the church.

In regard to this wonderful event--that is, if it be not a fact viewed unequally--it is further
to be said that Palma disclosed to Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre, that two or three times, the holy
element, which be it remembered is believed by the great majority of Christians to be the real
body of Christ, was brought to her by the devil, and that then she refused it. Sometimes he
had the figure of an angel, but she knew him by the sign of reprobation which he wore on his
forehead--a little horn. Moreover she saw that the wicked creature hesitated, and was a little
embarrassed. She intoned the Gloria Patri, and made the sign of the cross, and he instantly
took flight and disappeared. In order to ascertain what it all meant, her confessor forbade
her to receive the miraculous communion for eight days. Hardly had that period expired when
Jesus Christ himself brought her the communion. Before giving it to her he made her recite
the Gloria Patri three times. Then he said to her, "Have I fled as the demon did? No. Therefore
reassure yourself. It is really I."

These miraculous circumstances had been going on for about two years when Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre
made his visit to Palma. Sometimes it was brought to her by Christ, as in the instance specified,
or by some saint, as St. Peter, St. Vincent de Paul, St. Francis d'Assisi, in the company of
her guardian angel, and other saints and angels. At other times it was brought by priests and
confessors of the olden time, long since dead.

An Italian bishop stated, that at the moment of the miraculous sacrament on one occasion, he
had seen the host flying through the air before entering Palma's mouth, but the doctor questioned
her attendant on this point, and she declared that she had not seen that, and she assured him
that the host was never seen by any one till it rested on Palma's tongue. The doctor inclines
to the belief that the attendant was right, but he states that nevertheless a French apostolic
missionary had asserted that he had seen the same thing.

Well, if the consecrated bread be really the body of Christ that was given for the salvation
of the world, what horrible blasphemy to state such things of it, what vileness to believe
them, what a barefaced imputation on the reason of man to spread these shocking details before
him and ask him to accept them as true of the God he worships!

After witnessing the communion, Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre was requested to withdraw into the adjoining
room, while Palma got ready for her other performances. In a few minutes he was informed that
all was in order. One of the women went in first and returning immediately, the others were
invited to enter. The stigmatization had already begun on the forehead. He saw a stream of
blood flowing from the left frontal eminence along the side of the nose. A handkerchief was
given to Palma; she held it to her nose for a moment and the hæmorrhage soon stopped. He examined
the blood and found that it did not differ in appearance, color or temperature from ordinary
blood. He then examined the handkerchief, and besides numerous rotund spots he perceived other
figures resembling hearts, with stains of blood proceeding from them, indicating the flames
of love. All this appeared to him to be very extraordinary, for though he had often seen people
bleed from the nose, he had never seen them bleed like that.

After this incident Palma continued the performances--actions de grace he calls them--her hands
clasped and her eyes closed. In the lower limbs, especially the left, there was a tremor like
a nervous trembling which was soon quieted. After a few minutes she rubbed her hands together,
made the sign of the cross and returned naturally to the conversation. He then examined her
forehead and endeavored to ascertain where the blood had come from. The skin was intact without
the least opening. She showed him above the right frontal eminence a hole in the cranium, from
which at a former period, five little pieces of bone had been discharged. The opening was entirely
covered over by the scalp, and he was surprised to find that there was no cicatrix. It was
round, the end of his index finger entered it readily, and it was just such an opening as would
have been produced by the crown of a trephine. At the time it was made, the skin opened to
allow of the exit of the pieces of bone; then it closed without leaving the trace of a scar.
It was the same with the stigmata. They closed at once without there being any marks to indicate
the place whence the blood had flowed. This hole in the skull had been caused by some particular
circumstances that no one was willing to reveal to him, but which he says are reported in the
journal of the directors of this woman, and which will soon be published. Most medical men
will come to the conclusion that it was due to caries and necrosis of the bone, of syphilitic
origin.

During another visit Palma told Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre that she had eaten nothing for seven years,
but that she was obliged to drink frequently on account of the great internal heat, which like
a fire consumed her. She then drank in his presence two carafes of water at one time, and the
doctor states that "this water became so hot in her stomach that it was vomited boiling. She
also had often ejected from her mouth oil, and another fluid of a balsamic character, in which,
on standing for some time, bodies resembling the consecrated host were formed."

The doctor then relates the following details, which I give in his own words, in further illustration
of the character of his mental organization and of the pretensions put forth by the woman,
whose word seems to have been sufficient to convince him of anything at all, no matter how
preposterous. Four years previously he had been so unfortunate as to lose by death his eldest
child:

"A year after his death, I had met a woman of great renown for piety, and who was even regarded
as a receiver of celestial communications. I had commended my poor Joseph to her. Some time
after she assured me that my son was saved, and that he was in paradise. She declared that
in a vision she had seen him near our Lord; he was happy. Various circumstances, which it is
useless to mention here, had caused me to believe in the truth of this asserted revelation.
Being in Oria, I wished to have as much certainty as possible in regard to the matter, and
as I knew that Palma was in spiritual communication with many pious souls scattered over the
earth, I said to her in the course of our conversation, 'tell me, Palma, do you know M. ----
de X----,' giving her the baptismal name of the woman in question. 'No sir,' she answered.
I then related to her my history in detail, taking care not to ask her opinion in advance,
although I felt sure that she would explain the thing to me. She listened with the utmost attention
to the superioress who translated my words, and when Mother Becaud came to say that the woman
had had a vision of my son, and that he was in paradise, Palma stretched out her arm in a solemn
manner as a sign of negative, and said to me, 'He is saved, but he is still in purgatory.'

"'Is it possible? Palma,' I cried, profoundly moved: 'Since you tell me this, you are in conscience
bound to get him out of that place of expiation as soon as possible, and I commend him immediately
to your prayers.'

"'Yes, sir,' she said, 'I will pray for him, and when I am sure of his deliverance, I will
send you word by Father de Pace.'

"The following morning at my visit I again commended my poor child to Palma, and on the following
Friday evening on taking leave of her, I asked if she had prayed that morning for my son, 'No
sir,' she answered. 'I will only do so on the day of All Saints.' 'Then,' said I to Palma,
'will you allow madame the superioress to take the answer?' 'Very willingly,' said the seeress.
On the 7th of November, I received at Nice the following letter:

    "'SIR,

    "'I have fulfilled the promise which I made to you in accordance
    with your wish to go to Palma on All Saints Day, in order to
    ascertain whether or not your wishes in regard to your son had been
    granted. That good soul assured me twice that he had gone to heaven
    that very morning, God be praised a thousand times!

    "'Thus sir, I have done what I could for your consolation.

                          "'I have the honor to be, etc.

                                               "'Sister Marie Becaud.'

"This letter was post marked at Oria, November 2d."

I should not venture to insult the intelligence of the reader with these idiotic details but
for the reasons stated, and additionally, that they carry conviction with them to thousands
of minds, honest doubtless, but which are accustomed to grovel in superstition, and falsehood,
which they are unable to test by right standards.

A phase in Palma's spiritual pathology has been alluded to cursorily, but has not yet been
considered with the fulness proper in connection with stigmatization, and that is the occurrence
of hæmorrhagic spots on various parts of her body, and which she so managed as to convey the
idea that they were symbolical of various holy things. On the back of her hand she convinced
Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre that she bled in the shape of the cross, and he gives a wood-cut representing
a cross on the dorsum of the hand, a little above the space between the first and second fingers.
This is surrounded by other rectilinear figures. On her breast and back, other figures were
obtained by placing handkerchiefs on the parts. The doctor thus procured several mementoes
of his visit, in the shape of pieces of linen stained with spots of blood somewhat resembling
hearts, with flames coming out of them, suns, roses, crosses, etc. He gives several plates
in his book representing these figures, of the reality of the miraculous formation of which
he has not the slightest doubt.

Another phenomenon has also been mentioned incidentally, and that is the intense heat which
Palma declared she felt, and which the doctor refers to as the "divine fire." He had brought
with him from Paris, a thermometer to use in determining the extraordinary temperature of this
fire. He examined her with this instrument while she felt this divine fire, but failed to find
any abnormal increase; her pulse at the time was 72. "I made this experiment," he says, "to
satisfy my scientific conscience, [God save the mark!] but I ought to say that I was ashamed
of myself for presuming to measure this divine fire by such an instrument." He is right, science
is not for him, or those like him.

On one occasion while Palma was in ecstasy, Antonietta, who was near her, laid bare her chest
a little, and cried with enthusiasm, "she is burning!" Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre approached and
smelt something like the burning of linen. The dress was opened and her chemise was found to
be burnt on the left side just over the collar bone, and immediately below this, scorched in
the shape of "a magnificent emblem representing a monstrance. The fire was invisible, but its
traces were very evident."

In a note he states that it was affirmed that Palma's temperature on similar occasions had
reached 100° centigrade, (212° Fahrenheit) a fact which he does not doubt, although his thermometer
did not show it. "That her chemise," he says, "burnt by invisible fire, which escaped the thermometer,
was more extraordinary than if the instrument had indicated a temperature of 100°."

I shall not stop now to comment further on the circumstances detailed by Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre,
and of which I have cited but a small part. I will only say at present that science and common
sense would conclude in regard to Palma d'Oria,

1st. That she had probably at a former period contracted syphilis.

2d. That she was strongly hysterical.

3d. That she was the subject of purpura hæmorrhagica.

4th. That she was a most unmitigated humbug and liar.

And now we come to the consideration of a case of stigmatization which has greatly stirred
both the theological and the scientific world of Europe--that of Louise Lateau--and here again
I shall draw largely, though by no means exclusively, from the works of the believers in the
miraculous production of the phenomena manifested.[13]

Louise Lateau was born at Bois-d'Haine, a small village in Belgium, on the 30th of January,
1850. She was reared in the utmost poverty, was chlorotic, and did not menstruate till she
was eighteen years old. She loved solitude and silence, and when not engaged in work--and she
does not appear to have labored much--she spent her time in meditation and prayer. She was
subject to paroxysms of ecstasy, during which, as many other ecstasies, she spoke very edifying
things, of charity, poverty, and the priesthood. She saw St. Ursula, St. Roch, St. Theresa,
and the Holy Virgin. Persons who saw her in these states declared that, while lying on the
bed, her whole body was raised up more than a foot high, the heels alone being in contact with
the bed.

The stigmatization ensued very soon after these seizures. On a Friday she bled from the left
side of her chest. On the following Friday this flow was renewed, and in addition, blood escaped
from the dorsal surfaces of both feet; and on the third Friday, not only did she bleed from
the side and feet, but also from the dorsal and palmar surface of both hands. Every succeeding
Friday the blood flowed from these places, and finally other points of exit were established
on the forehead and between the shoulders.

At first these bleedings only took place at night, but after two or three months they occurred
in the daytime, and were accompanied by paroxysms of ecstasy, during which she was insensible
to all external impressions, and acted the passion of Jesus and the crucifixion.

M. Warlomont, being commissioned by the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium to examine Louise
Lateau, went to her house, accompanied by several friends, and made a careful examination of
her person. At that time, Friday morning at six o'clock, the blood was flowing freely from
all the stigmata. In a few moments the sacrament would be brought to her, and then the second
act of the drama would begin. The scene that followed can be best described in M. Warlomont's
own words:

"It is a quarter-past six. 'Here comes the communion,' said M. Niels [a priest], 'kneel down.'
Louise fell on her knees on the floor, closed her eyes and crossed her hands, on which the
communion-cloth was extended. A priest, followed by several acolytes, entered; the penitent
put out her tongue, received the holy wafer, and then remained immovable in the attitude of prayer.

"We observed her with more care than seemed to have been hitherto given to her at similar periods.
Some thought that she was simply in a state of meditation, from which she would emerge in the
course of half an hour or so. But it was a mistake. Having taken the communion, the penitent
went into a special state. Her immobility was that of a statue, her eyes were closed; on raising
the eyelids the pupils were seen to be largely dilated, immovable, and apparently insensible
to light. Strong pressure made upon the parts in the vicinity of the stigmata caused no sensation
of pain, although a few moments before they were exquisitely tender. Pricking the skin gave
no evidence of the slightest sensibility. A limb, on being raised, offered no resistance, and
sank slowly back to its former position. Anæsthesia was complete, unless the cornea remained
still impressionable. The pulse had fallen from 120 to 100 pulsations. At a given moment I
raised one of the eyelids, and M. Verriest quickly touched the cornea. Louise at once seemed
to recover herself from a sound sleep, arose and walked to a chair, upon which she seated herself.
'This time,' I said, 'we have wakened her.' 'No,' said M. Niels, looking at his watch, 'it
was time for her to awake.'"

She remained conscious; the blood still continued to flow; the anæsthesia had ceased, her pulse
rose to 120, and at the end of half an hour she was herself. "Our first visit ended here. At
half-past eleven we made another. The poor child had resumed her attitude of extreme suffering,
against which she contended with all the energy that remained to her. The wounds in the hands
still continued to bleed. M. Verriest auscultated with care the lungs, heart, and great vessels,
and found the bruit de souffle, which he had detected in the morning at the apex of the heart
and over the carotids. The handle of a spoon pressed against the velum, the base of the tongue,
and the pharynx, provoked no effort at vomiting. The glasses of our spectacles, as they came
in contact with the air expired, were covered with vapor. As the patient appeared to suffer
from our presence, we went away.

"We made our third visit at two o'clock. There were still fifteen minutes before the beginning
of the ecstatic crisis, which always took place punctually at a quarter past two and ended
at about half past four. The pupils at this time were slightly contracted, the eyelids were
almost entirely closed; the eyes, looking at nothing, were veiled from our view. We tried in
vain to attract her attention; her mind was otherwise engaged, and her pains were evidently
becoming more intense. At exactly a quarter past two her eyes became fixed in a direction above
and to the right. The ecstasy had begun.

"The time had now come to introduce those who were prompted by curiosity. This could now be
done without inconvenience, for the ecstatic, for the ensuing two hours, would be lost to the
appreciation of what might be passing around her. The room crowded, could hold about ten persons,
but enough were allowed to enter to make the total twenty-five. These placed themselves in
two ranks, of which the front one kneeling, allowed the rear ones to see all that was going
on. All this was done under the direction of M. le Curé, who took every pains to give us a
good view of what was going to happen.

"Louise was seated on the edge of her chair; her body, inclined forward, seemed to wish to
follow the direction of her eyes, which did not look, but were fixed on vacancy. Her eyes were
opened to their fullest extent, of a dull, lustreless appearance, turned above and to the right,
and of an absolute immobility. A few workings of the lids were now observed and became more
frequent if the eyelids were touched. The pupils, largely dilated, showed very little sensibility
to light, and all that remained of vision was shown by slight winking when the hand was suddenly
brought close to the eyes. The whole face lacked expression. At certain moments, either spontaneously
or as a consequence of divers provocations, a light smile, to which the muscles of the face
generally did not contribute, wandered over her lips. Then the face resumed its primitive expression,
and thus she remained for the half-hour which constituted the 'first station.'

"The 'second station' was that of genuflection. It had failed at one time, but had again appeared.
The young girl fell on her knees, clasped her hands, and remained for about a quarter of an
hour in the attitude of contemplation. Then she arose and again resumed her sitting posture.

"The 'third station' began at three o'clock. Louise inclined herself a little forward, raised
her body slowly, and then extended herself at full length, face downward, on the floor. There
was neither rigidity nor extreme precipitation; nothing in fact, calculated to produce injuries.
The knees first supported her body, then it rested on these and the elbows, and finally her
face was brought in actual close contact with the tiled floor. At first the head rested on
the left arm, but very soon the patient made a quick and sudden movement, and the arms were
extended from the body in the form of a cross. At the same time the feet were brought together
so that the dorsum of the right was in contact with the sole of the left foot. This position
did not vary for an hour and a half. When the end of the crisis approached, the arms were brought
close to the sides of the body, then suddenly the poor girl rose to her knees, her face turns
to the wall, her cheeks become colored, her eyes have regained their expression, her countenance
expands, and the ecstasy is at an end."

Further particulars are given, and an apparatus was constructed and applied to Louise's hand
and arm so as to prevent any external excitation of the hæmorrhage. It was apparently shown
that there was no such interference, for the blood began to flow at the usual time on Friday.

In addition to the stigmata and the paroxysms of ecstasy, Louise declared that she did not
sleep, had eaten or drank nothing for four years, had had no fæcal evacuation for three years
and a half, and that the urine was entirely suppressed.

M. Warlomont examined the blood and products of respiration chemically, and satisfied himself
of their normal character, except that the former contained an excessive amount of white corpuscles.

When being closely interrogated, Louise admitted that, though she did not sleep, she had short
periods of forgetfulness at night. On M. Warlomont suddenly opening a cupboard in her room,
he found it to contain fruit and bread, and her chamber communicated directly with a yard at
the back of the house. It was therefore perfectly possible for her to have slept, eaten, defecated,
and urinated, without any one knowing that she did so.

The conclusions arrived at by M. Warlomont were, that the stigmatizations and ecstasies of
Louise Lateau were real and to be explained upon well-known physiological and pathological
principles, that she "worked, and dispensed heat, that she lost every Friday a certain quantity
of blood by the stigmata, that the air she expired contained the vapor of water and carbonic
acid, that her weight had not materially altered since she had come under observation. She
consumes carbon and it is not from her own body that she gets it. Where does she get it from?
Physiology answers, 'She eats.'"

Relative to the assumed abstinence in the cases of Palma d'Oria, Louise Lateau and other subjects
of ecstasy and stigmata, it is not necessary, in view of the remarks already made on this subject
in a previous chapter, to devote further consideration to it here. The conclusion arrived at
by M. Warlomont is the only one which science can tolerate. Should Louise Lateau or Palma d'Oria
ever be subjected to as close watching as was the poor little Welsh Fasting Girl, Sarah Jacob,
it will certainly terminate as badly for them as for her, unless they yield to the demands
of nature and take the food which the organism requires.

FOOTNOTES:

[11] Les Stigmatisées; Palma d'Oria, etc. 2d Edition, Paris, 1873, p. 263.

[12] Op. cit., t. ii.

[13] For the theological view of this remarkable case the reader is referred to the following
works, a part only of those written in support of her pretensions. "Louise Lateau de Bois-d'Haine,
sa vie, ses extases, ses stigmates: étude Médicale," par le Dr. Lefebvre, Louvain, 1873. "Les
stigmatisées; Louise Lateau, etc.," par le Docteur A. Imbert-Gourbeyre, Paris, 1873. "Biographie
de Louise Lateau," par H. Van Looy, Tournai, Paris and Leipzig, 1874. "Louise Lateau de Bois-d'Haine
etc.," par le Dr. A. Rohling, Paris, 1874. "Louise Lateau, ihr Wunderleben u.s.w.," Von Paul
Majunke, Berlin, 1875.

Among the treatises in which the miracle is denied, and the phenomena attributed to either
disease or fraud are; "Louise Lateau; Rapport Médical sur la stigmatisée de Bois-d'Haine, fait
à l'académie royale de médecine de Belgique," par le Dr. Warlomont, Bruxelles and Paris, 1875.
"Science et miracle, Louise Lateau, ou la stigmatisée Belge," par le Dr. Bourneville, Paris,
1875. "Les Miracles," par M. Virchow, Revue des cours scientifiques, January 23rd 1875.

IV.

THE BROOKLYN CASE.

For several years past there have been rumors more or less definite in character that a young
lady in Brooklyn was not only living without food, but was possessed of some mysterious faculty
by which she could foretell events, read communications without the aid of the eyes, and accurately
describe occurrences in distant places, through clairvoyance or whatever other name may be
applied to the influence.

Finally, in the New York Herald of October 20th, 1878, appeared an account, headed "Life without
Food. An Invalid Lady who for fourteen years has lived without nourishment." As this account
is apparently authentic, and as the statements made have never been contradicted, I do not
hesitate to quote from it. Some of the letters which have appeared in response to a proposition
I offered, and to which fuller reference will presently be made, have accused me of dragging
the young lady before the public. It will be seen, however, that her friends and physicians
are responsible for all the publicity given to the case.

Leaving out of consideration for the present the alleged marvellous endowments of this young
lady, as regards seeing without her eyes, second sight, etc., I quote from the Herald the essential
points relative to her clinical history and abstinence from food:

"In a modest, secluded house at the corner of Myrtle Avenue and Downing Street, Brooklyn, lives
an invalid lady afflicted with paralysis, with a history so remarkable and extraordinary that,
notwithstanding it is vouched for by physicians of standing, it is almost incredible. It is
claimed that for a period of nearly fourteen years she has lived absolutely without food or
nourishment of any kind. The case has been kept by the family of the patient a well guarded
secret, it having led them to a strict seclusion as the only means of protection against the
visits of the curious and incredulous.

"The name of the remarkable person is Miss Mollie Fancher. To the half dozen medical gentlemen
who have seen and attended her, her case is inexplicable. To learn the history of the strange
case a Herald reporter yesterday called on several persons familiar with the facts. The first
person seen was Dr. Ormiston, of No. 74 Hanson Place, Brooklyn, who attended her. He said:--'It
seems incredible, but from everything I can learn Mollie Fancher never eats. The elder Miss
Fancher, her aunt, who takes care of her, is a lady of the highest intelligence. She was at
one time quite wealthy, and she has at present a comfortable income. I have every reason to
believe that her statements are in every detail reliable. During a dozen visits to the sick
chamber I have never detected evidence of the patient having eaten a morsel.'"

After interviewing a lady intimate with the family, the reporter sought out Dr. Speir, the
attending physician of the patient, and thus details his experience with that gentleman:

"Dr. Speir was found in his comfortable little office, and the errand of the writer made known:--

"'Is it true, Doctor, that a patient of yours has lived for fourteen years without taking food?'

"'If you refer to Miss Fancher, yes. She became my patient in 1864. Her case is a most remarkable
one.'

"'But has she eaten nothing during all these years?'

"'I can safely say she has not.'

"'Are the family also willing to vouch for the truth of this extraordinary statement?'

"'You will find them very reticent to newspaper men and to strangers generally. I do not believe
any food--that is, solids--ever passed the woman's lips since her attack of paralysis, consequent
upon her mishap. As for an occasional teaspoonful of water or milk, I sometimes force her to
take it by using an instrument to pry open her mouth, but that is painful to her. As early
as 1865 I endeavored to sustain life in this way, for I feared that, in obedience to the universal
law of nature, she would die of gradual inanition or exhaustion, which I thought would sooner
or later ensue; but I was mistaken. The case knocks the bottom out of all existing medical
theories, and is, in a word, miraculous.'

"'Did you ever,' asked the reporter, 'make an experiment to satisfy your professional accuracy
in regard to her abstinence?'

"'Several times I have given her emetics on purpose to discover the truth; but the result always
confirmed the statement that she had taken no food. It sounds strangely, but it is so. I have
taken every precaution against deception, sometimes going into the house at eleven or twelve
o'clock at night, without being announced, but have always found her the same, and lying in
the same position occupied by her for the entire period of her invalidity. The springs of her
bedstead are actually worn out with the constant pressure. My brethren in the medical profession
at first were inclined to laugh at me, and call me a fool and spiritualist when I told them
of the long abstinence and keen mental powers of my interesting patient. But such as have been
admitted to see her are convinced. These are Dr. Ormiston, Dr. Elliott and Dr. Hutchison, some
of the best talent in the city, who have seen and believed.'"

And then the following account is given of the accident from which the young lady suffered,
and to which the remarkable phenomena she is said to exhibit are ascribed:

"The story of Miss Fancher's accident and its melancholy consequences is quite affecting. It
is collected from the various statements given by half a dozen friends of the family to the
Herald reporter. Interwoven with it is a thread of romance, a tale of early love and courtship,
of a life embittered by a cruel accident, of patient waiting, and a final release of the suitor
from his engagement to marry another.

"Mary's parents live in a sumptuous dwelling on Washington Avenue, Brooklyn, and were reported
to be wealthy. Their favorite daughter Mollie, as she was called, was sent to Prof. West's
High School in Brooklyn at an early age, and here developed many brilliant qualities of mind
and heart, which augured well for her future. At seventeen she was pretty, petite and well
cultivated. As a member of the Washington Avenue Baptist Sunday School, she met and learned
to love a classmate, named John Taylor. An engagement followed the intimacy of the Sunday School
class, and the young people looked forward with buoyant spirits to the bright life so soon
to dawn upon them.

"But fate decreed differently. While getting off a Fulton Street car one day in 1864, on her
return from school, the young lady slipped and fell backward. Her skirt caught on the step
unseen by the conductor, who started the car on its way again. The poor girl was dragged some
ten or fifteen yards before her cries were heard and the brake applied. When picked up she
was insensible and was carried, suffering intense agony from an injured spine, to her home
near by. Forty-eight hours afterward she was seized with a violent spasm which lasted for over
two days. Then came a trance, when the sufferer grew cold and rigid, with no evidence of life
beyond a warm spot under the left breast, where feeble pulsations of her heart were detected
by Dr. Speir. Only this gentleman believed she was alive, and it was due to his constant assertion
of the girl's ultimate recovery that Miss Fancher was not buried. Despite the best medical
help and the application of restoratives, no change was brought about in the patient's condition
until the tenth week, when the strange suspension of life ceased and breath was once more inhaled
and breathed forth from her lungs.

"To their dismay the doctors then found that Mollie had lost her sight and the power of deglutition,
the latter affliction rendering it impossible for her to swallow food or even articulate by
the use of tongue or lip. Previous to her trance a moderate quantity of food had been given
her each day; but since then she has not taken a mouthful of life-sustaining food. Spasms and
trances alternated with alarming frequency since Miss Fancher was first attacked. First her
limbs only became rigid and disturbed at the caprice of her strange malady; but as time passed
her whole frame writhed as if in great pain, requiring to be held by main force in order to
remain in the bed. She could swallow nothing, and lay utterly helpless until moved."

In the Sun, of November 24th, 1878, a fuller account of this young lady was given, mainly however,
in regard to her "clairvoyant," or "second-sight" power. Relative to her abstinence from food,
I quote the following conversation between the reporter and Dr. Speir.

"'Is it true that she has not partaken of food in all these thirteen years?'

"'No: I cannot say that she has not; I have not been constantly with her for thirteen years;
she may have taken food in my absence. Her friends have used every device to make her take
nourishment. Food has been forced upon her, and artificial means have been resorted to that
it might be carried to her stomach. Nevertheless, the amount in the aggregate must have been
very small in all these years.'

"'You have considered the case of such extraordinary importance as to take many physicians
to see it?'

"'I have, and it has excited very much of attention. I have letters about it from far and near,
and the medical journals have asked for information.'"

And this with Dr. Ormiston:

"Dr. Robert Ormiston, who has been one of Miss Fancher's physicians from the first, who has
seen her constantly in all the different conditions of her system, said yesterday that he was
convinced that there could be no deception. He could find no motive for it, and he did not
believe that she had attempted it. As to her not partaking of food, he had with Dr. Speir made
tests that satisfied him that she ate no more than she pretended to, and in the aggregate it
had not, in all these years, amounted to more than the amount eaten at a single meal by a healthy
man. Dr. Ormiston narrated many curious incidents of the girl's illness, and verified the facts
of her physical condition as narrated elsewhere."

In order that no injustice may be done to these gentlemen, I quote the following from the Sun
of November 26th:

"Dr. R. Fleet Speir, one of Miss Fancher's physicians, smiled last evening when the Sun reporter
asked him what he thought of Dr. Hammond's opinions on the case. 'I probably have just as high
an opinion of Dr. Hammond's opinions as Dr. Hammond has of mine,' he said. 'My opinion on the
case of Miss Fancher I have always refused to give to any one. When I first took the case,
years ago, I told the family that I would not give them an opinion on it; that I would do what
I could with it, and that I hoped to bring about a cure. I do not believe in clairvoyance or
second sight, or anything of the kind. I think I stand with the most rigid school on that subject.'

"'But do you think Miss Fancher deceives or endeavors to?'

"The Doctor smiled again. 'Now I do not want you to interview me on that. My theory has along
been to do nothing to irritate my patient; I humored her, and have endeavored in that way to
get her confidence, to get complete control of her, if possible. In that way I may get her
mind diverted, and by and by get her out of bed. I have hoped to see her cured. I do not see
what earthly good a scientific investigation would do her. On the contrary, it would harm her.
Put a relay of physicians to watch her, and she would undoubtedly do her best to beat them.
She would hold out against them, and likely as not die.'

"Dr. Robert Ormiston said that he thought that the Brooklyn physicians knew quite as much about
the case as their New York brethren, and that their opinions were of as much weight. 'It has
become a most interesting case from a medical standpoint, because during her long illness,
she has gone through all the different phases of hysteria that have heretofore been observed
in many different cases. I think I am correct in this statement.'"

From all that can be ascertained therefore, it appears that the young lady in question received
a severe injury to the spinal cord, in consequence of which she became paralyzed in the lower
extremities, in which members contractions also took place. It is probable also that the great
sympathetic nerve and brain were involved in the injury.

Confined to her bed, her bodily temperature being low, and passing a good of her time in trances
or periods of insensibility, the requirements of the system as regarded food would necessarily
be limited. But this is the most that can be said. She did breathe, her heart did beat, she
required some bodily heat, and the various other functions of her organism could not have been
maintained without the expenditure of matter of some kind. During abstinence from food the
body itself is consumed for these purposes, and there being no renovation, no supplies from
without, it loses weight with every instant of time until death finally ensues. An emaciated
person can withstand this drain less effectually than one who is stout and fat.

Again, it is said that the food taken by Miss Fancher was at once rejected. That it was all
rejected, is in the highest degree improbable; a portion remained, and this portion, small
as it was, did good service when very little was required.

Another point: that Miss Fancher was hysterical admits of no doubt. Hysteria is a disease as
much in some cases beyond the control of the patient as inflammation of the brain or any other
disease. A proclivity to simulation and deception is just as much a symptom of hysteria as
pain is of pleurisy. To say, therefore, that she simulated abstinence and deceived us to the
quantity of food she took, is no imputation on her honesty, or questioning her possession of
as high a degree of honor and trust, as can be claimed by any one. Other women naturally as
moral as she, have under the influence of hysteria perpetrated the grossest deceptions, and
they are not unfrequently manifested in the very same way that hers apparently are. Her case
is by no means an isolated one; it is not such as has never been seen before; it does not "knock
the bottom out of all existing medical theories, and is in a word miraculous," as one of the
physicians is reported to have said. On the contrary, similar ones are often met with as we
have seen, and the following which I quote from Millingen,[14] is so like it in many respects,
that the two might have been formed after a common model, as in fact they were, just as two
or more cases of pneumonia follow a well defined type.

"Another wonderful instance of the same kind is that of Janet McLeod, published by Dr. McKenzie.
She was at the time thirty-three years of age, unmarried, and from the age of fifteen had had
various attacks of epilepsy, which had produced so rigid a lock-jaw that her mouth could rarely
be forced open by any contrivance; she had lost very nearly the power of speech and deglutition,
and with this all desire to eat or drink. Her lower limbs were contracted towards her body;
she was entirely confined to her bed, and had periodical discharges of blood from the lungs,
which were chiefly thrown out by the nostrils. During a few intervals of relaxation she was
prevailed upon with great difficulty to put a few crumbs of bread comminuted in the hand, into
her mouth, together with a little water sucked from her one hand, and, in one or two instances,
a little gruel, but even in these attempts almost the whole was rejected. On two occasions
also, after a total abstinence of many months, she made signs of wishing to drink some water,
which was immediately procured for her. On the first trial the whole seemed to be returned
from the mouth, but she was greatly refreshed in having it rubbed upon the throat. On the second
occasion she drank off a pint at once, but could not be prevailed upon to drink any more, although
her father had now fixed a wedge between her teeth. With these exceptions, however, she seemed
to have passed upwards of four years without either liquids or solids of any kind, or even
an appearance of swallowing; she lay for the most part like a log of wood, with a pulse scarcely
perceptible for feebleness, but distinct and regular. Her countenance was clear and pretty
fresh; her features neither disfigured nor sunk; her bosom round and prominent, and her limbs
not emaciated. Dr. McKenzie watched her, with occasional visits, for eight or nine years, at
the close of which period she seemed to be a little improved."

This account, like that given of Miss Fancher, tells us nothing definite in regard to the fasting
abilities of the young woman. It simply, with the other, may be accepted as indicating that
hysterical women are able to go for comparatively long periods without food, and that fact
we already knew. It will be observed that it is stated that she "seemed" to go four years without
food or drink.

In regard to Miss Fancher, the evidence is a little conflicting. First we have Dr. Speir reported
as saying, in answer to a question as to her having lived fourteen years without food:

"'Yes, she became my patient in 1864. Her case is a most remarkable one.'

"'But has she eaten nothing during all these years?'

"'I can safely say she has not.'"

This in the Herald.

In which opinion all physiologists will join.

As I have said, hysterical women certainly do exhibit a marked ability to go without both food
and drink. I have had patients abstain from sometimes one, sometimes the other, and sometimes
both, for periods varying from one day to eleven, and this without much, if any, suffering,
for as soon as the suffering came they did not hesitate to signify their desire to break their
voluntary fasts. Real suffering is a condition which the hysterical woman avoids with the most
assiduous care.

FOOTNOTES:

[14] Curiosities of Medical Experience. London, 1837, Vol. I., page 269, article, Abstinence.

V.

THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF INANITION.

The opinion that food and drink are necessary to life is so generally accepted by mankind,
that few venture to dispute the dictum of Virchow relative to Louise Lateau, "Fraud or miracle."
But although it is impossible so far as we know for individuals to continue to exist for months
and years without the ingestion of nutriment into the system, it is undoubtedly true that under
certain circumstances life can be prolonged for days and weeks without any food of any kind
going into the organism.

The body is a machine constructed for the purpose of working. The kinds of work which the body
of a man or woman does are many. Every act of perception or sensation, is an act of work; so
is every thought, every emotion, every volition. The action of the heart or lungs in the circulation
and respiration, the evolution of the animal heat, the various functions of secretion and excretion,
digestion, motion, speech, etc., are all so many kinds of work. Now as regards work, it is
well known that for its due performance force is required, and it is equally well known that
for the development of force, matter that can be metamorphosed is necessary. The engine may
be perfect, the water may be in the boiler, but unless there be force in the form of heat there
will be no steam; and there will be no heat unless there be fuel in a state of combustion.

The human body differs from any other machine in the fact that it uses its fuel in great part
indirectly; only in fact after it has been assimilated and converted into tissues of various
kinds. Thus when a muscle contracts, it is the muscle itself which is consumed; when a thought
is conceived it is the brain which provides the force; when an emotion is experienced, it is
again the brain which is decomposed. The body, therefore, lives by the death of its own substance.
It is true, some kinds of food such as alcohol, tea and coffee, and perhaps some others do
not require to go farther than the blood to be burned, but these are mainly heat-producing,
and not tissue-producing substances. But whether matter be consumed directly or indirectly,
all bodily force results from its decomposition, and without this destruction of matter the
body would be absolutely incapable of a single functional action of any kind whatever, and
its temperature like that of the so-called cold-blooded animals would be that of the surrounding
medium, the atmosphere.

The quantity of food required by the system varies like the demands of other machines in accordance
with the amount of work which is to be performed. A plowman, other things being equal, consumes
more than a watchmaker; just as a locomotive burns more fuel than the little engine that runs
a sewing machine; the strong able-bodied active man, one who works his brains and muscles up
to their full power, eats more than the weak, emaciated and inactive girl, who passes all her
time in the recumbent position in bed; and the latter will, other things being equal, endure
for a longer period entire abstinence from food. A little food with such a one goes a great
way, the demands of the system are at their minimum, and hence a mouthful of bread, or a little
tea and toast taken at long intervals, suffices for the supply of all, or a great portion of
the waste of the body. With such a person there is not much intense thought, there is little
or no muscular action, the pulsations of the heart do not require to be of much force, the
respiration is feeble, digestion is at its lowest point, there are no great demands for animal
heat, and in fact if the temperature of the atmosphere of the room in which such a person lies,
be kept high, the function of calorification may be almost nothing. Still there must be some
food taken. The body, can to a certain extent, be used up in supplying the force required for
the several functions without the necessity for an immediate restoration of its tissues, but
there is a limit to this, beyond which it is certain death to go.

Chossat[15] has determined this point very accurately by many experiments performed upon doves,
pigeons, Guinea pigs, rabbits, etc. He found that as a mean result, death ensued when the body
lost four-tenths of its original weight. For instance, a body weighing one hundred pounds,
could endure the loss of forty pounds without death necessarily following. Five-tenths or one-half
appeared to be the extreme loss of weight in inanition which the body could endure without
death resulting.

In addition to the loss of weight the temperature fell rapidly, the action of the heart was
lessened, the number and depth of the respirations was diminished, and the excretions gradually
became smaller in amount.

Experiments such as those of Chossat on the lower animals, cannot of course be instituted on
the human subject, nevertheless nature sometimes performs experiments for us which are not
without valuable results; and accidents of various kinds, have also given us important data.

On the 19th of March, 1755, twenty-two persons living in the Alpine village of Bergemoletto,
in Piedmont, were buried in their houses by an avalanche or whirlwind of snow. The space covered
was about two hundred and seventy feet in length, sixty in breadth, and the snow was over forty-two
feet in depth. Notwithstanding all the efforts made by the survivors it was impossible to extricate
the buried persons till the 18th of April following. All were dead except three women, who,
having found some hay, fed a goat with it, and thus obtained from this animal a pint of milk
daily, on which they had managed to sustain life for a month.[16]

In Belgium in the year 1683, four colliers were confined in a coal pit for twenty-four days
without anything to eat. On the twenty-fifth day they were taken out. In all that time they
had lived on nothing but a little water, which flowed from the walls of the prison in which
they were immured.[17]

A case is mentioned by Foderé[18] on the authority of M. Chaussier, in which some workmen were
taken out alive after having been confined for fourteen days in a cold damp vault. When released
at the end of the time mentioned, their pulses were slow and weak, their animal heat greatly
reduced, and respiration barely perceptible. Foderé ascribes their long existence without either
food or drink, to the fact that the atmosphere of the vault was exceedingly humid, and that
the moisture was absorbed into their bodies, taking the place of water ingested into the stomach.

In another case reported by Dr. Straus,[19] a man sixty-five years of age, was extracted alive
from a coal mine, in which he had been imprisoned for twenty-three days. During the first ten
days he had a little dirty water, but for the last thirteen days nothing whatever. When taken
out he was in a condition of great weakness and emaciation and died after three days, notwithstanding
all efforts made to preserve his life.

Cases of prolonged abstinence often occur among the insane, who, under the influence of delusions,
or in order to destroy their lives refuse all food. Dr. Willan relates the case of a young
man, who, through delusions, refused all food but a little orange juice, and who lived for
sixty days on this alone.

Of course such persons, if under the observation of a physician, could be fed forcibly, but
through the ignorance of friends or relatives it not unfrequently happens that medical aid
is not invoked in time, and serious symptoms, or even death itself, may result. The time at
which this last termination ensues varies according to the kind of insanity with which the
patient is affected. A general paralytic deprived of all food dies sooner than a healthy person.
An insane person suffering from acute mania also resists inanition badly, but one the subject
of melancholia often endures the total deprivation of aliment for a long time. Esquirol[20]
cites the case of a melancholic who did not succumb till after eighteen days of complete abstinence,
and Desbarreaux-Bernard another in which life was prolonged for sixty-one days, but in this
case a little broth was taken once. Desportes[21] refers to the case of a woman subject to
melancholia who continued to exist during two months of abstinence, during which she took nothing
into the stomach but a little water.

It would be easy to go on and quote other instances occurring among prisoners, shipwrecked
persons, those suffering from diseases which prevented food entering the stomach, others lost
in deserts, forests, etc., in which life has been prolonged for considerable periods. Such
cases are, however, quite exceptional. An interesting instance occurring under one of these
heads may, however, be cited as an example.

M. Lépine[22] reports the case of a young girl nineteen years of age who swallowed a quantity
of sulphuric acid. As a consequence a stricture of the œsophagus was produced. Three months
after the act, liquids alone passed into the stomach; emaciation was extreme and the countenance
pallid. Four months subsequently, that is, seven months after swallowing the acid, the obliteration
of the œsophagus was complete, and nothing whatever could be swallowed. The patient lived for
sixteen days after all food or drink was prevented reaching the stomach. During the last days
of her starvation she complained only of thirst and not of hunger. The prostration was extreme
and the temperature greatly lessened. A tendency to sleep was present, and there was a subdued
delirium. On the last day of life there was more excitement; the conjunctivæ were red, the
pulse thread-like, and the skin cold. It is not stated whether or not attempts were made to
feed this patient by injections into the rectum of nutritious substances, or by the use of
baths containing such matters in solution. It may, however, safely be taken for granted that
efforts of these kinds were made, and if so, the unusually long period during which life was
sustained is explained.

In all the cases in which life was extraordinarily prolonged there was either not a total deprivation
of food and drink, or there was a state of muscular inaction present particularly favorable
to retardation of the destructive changes in the body which abstinence produces. It may be
asserted that in ordinary cases absolute deprivation of food and drink cannot be endured by
a healthy adult longer than ten days, and death generally ensues before the end of the eighth
day. It is said that women sustain abstinence better than men. Young persons and the aged certainly
resist with less power than those of the middle period of life. Dante was aware of this fact
when he made the children of Ugolino die before their father, the youngest first, the oldest last.

Even though there be a total deprivation of what may strictly be called food, some of the cases
already cited show that if water be taken life is preserved for a much longer period than would
otherwise be the case. Thus a negro woman, according to Dr. J. W. Francis,[23] believing herself
to be bewitched, abstained from food for three weeks, but during this period took two small
cups of water, to which a very little wine had been added.

In a case reported by Dr. McNaughton[24] a longer resistance was maintained.

"The subject of this case was a young man, aged twenty-seven, who for three years immediately
preceding his death almost constantly kept his room, apparently engaged in meditation, a Bible
his only companion. At the latter end of May, 1829, his appetite began to fail; he ate very
little, and on the 2d of July he declined eating altogether. For the first six weeks of his
fast he went regularly to the well, washed himself, and took a bowl full of water with him
into the house. With this he occasionally washed his mouth and drank a little; the quantity
taken during the twenty-four hours did not exceed a pint. On one occasion he went three days
without taking water, but on the fourth morning he was observed to go to the well and drink
copiously and greedily. For the first six weeks he walked out every day, and sometimes spent
the greater part of the day in the woods. He retained his strength until a short time before
his death. During the first three weeks he emaciated rapidly; afterwards he did not seem to
waste so sensibly. Prof. Willoughby visited him a few days before he died. He found the skin
very cold, the respiration feeble and slow, but otherwise natural; but the effluvia from the
breath, and perhaps the skin, were extremely offensive. During the greater part of the latter
week of his life the parents say there was a considerable discharge of foul reddish matter
from the lungs. To this perhaps the offensive smell referred to may be chiefly attributed.
The pulse was regular, but slow and feeble, and the arteries extremely contracted. The radial
artery, for example, could be distinctly felt like a small, hard thread, communicating almost
a wiry feel.

"The alvine evacuations were rare; it is believed that he passed several weeks without any,
but the secretion of urine seemed more regular. He died after fasting fifty-three days. On
dissection the stomach was found loose and flabby. The gall bladder was distended with a dark,
muddy-looking bile. The mesentery, stomach and intestines were excessively thin and transparent.
There was no fat in the omentum."

In cases of complete abstinence, the phenomena--to several of which attention has already been
called--are very striking. The respiration becomes slow until just before death, when, as Chossat
observes, there is often a quickening of the respiratory movements. The exhaled breath has
a peculiarly sickening and fetid odor. The pulse loses in force and frequency.

The blood becomes reduced in quantity to such an extent sometimes that, as observed by Collard
and Martigny,[25] incisions may be made in various parts of the bodies of animals suffering
from inanition without there being any hæmorrhage.

The animal temperature falls, according to Chossat, 8° per day until the day of death, when
it reaches 14°; and at the moment life departs, the loss suddenly becomes 30°.

All the secretions are diminished in quantity. This is especially shown as regards the saliva
and urine. Even open sores cease to secrete pus.

At first there is pain, the seat of which is referred to the stomach, and which pain in the
beginning, being simply a feeling of emptiness, rapidly assumes a gnawing or tearing character.
But before long this fades away and it does not appear that in the middle and final stages
of inanition there is any suffering which can be called a pain, or which can be fixed in any
definite part of the body.

The mental faculties are profoundly affected. A high state of delirium supervenes, and there
are often hallucinations. These sometimes relate to food, which appears to the sufferer to
be spread out before him in the most seducing manner. All nobility of character disappears,
and selfishness and brutality govern. Finally the delirium becomes low and muttering, the bodily
weakness becomes excessive, walking, or even standing, is impossible, the sufferer loses all
sensation, and death ensues.

But probably no part of the subject is of more interest than that which relates to the association
of inanition with hysteria. As is well known by physicians, the existence of this latter condition
enables many to bear partial, or even complete deprivation of food longer and with less apparent
suffering than would be possible with individuals in good health.

That Miss Fancher is subject to hysteria is very evident from a consideration of the clinical
history of her case, and hence it is to be expected that she can endure long fasts without
much inconvenience. It is just possible that she might, by remaining quietly in bed in a state
of partial or complete trance--a hysterical condition in which the waste of the tissues is
greatly reduced--exist for a month without either food or drink, and therefore the proposition
which I made to her friends contains no exacting condition. Subsequent statements, as we have
seen, modify this fourteen years' claim very materially, and really leave it in doubt whether
there was any abstinence at all.

But I think it may safely be believed that Miss Fancher has indulged in frequent long fasts.
Hysteria is very frequently marked, not only by the ability to endure lengthened periods of
abstinence, but by the abolition of all desire for food, to such an extent that the sight or
even idea of aliment of any kind excites loathing and disgust. M. Lasègue,[26] in a very interesting
memoir, has discussed this part of the subject with great precision, and has shown that though
such patients take very little food they do take some, and that eventually they experience
all the symptoms of inanition. He has never seen death result from the abstinence, for as soon
as the condition becomes decidedly unpleasant the patient resumes gradually her normal alimentation.

In a case recently under my care, a young lady twenty-three years of age became hysterical
in consequence of domestic troubles, and losing all desire for food, took nothing daily but
a single cup of chocolate. She persevered in this restricted diet for twenty-nine days, although
during the last eight or ten she gave decided evidences of starvation. She became emaciated,
her temperature fell, especially in the extremities, her breath was offensive, her menstruation
ceased, and there was such a marked sense of discomfort that she began to crave food, not,
as she said, because her appetite had returned, but because she was afraid she would die. Still
she resisted till, on the thirtieth day, she begged for a little beef tea, and from that moment
her appetite returned to her, and by the end of another week, she was eating her ordinary quantity
and variety of food.

Now, in this case, though the amount of nutriment taken daily was small, it was of such a character
as to be well able to sustain life. The half pint of chocolate contained milk and sugar, besides
the highly nutritious chocolate, with its carbonaceous and nitrogenous matters, and yet a month
was the extreme limit of endurance.

That a state of inanition exists in Miss Fancher is not to be doubted. The extreme emaciation,
the reduced bodily temperature, the contracted stomach and intestines, the great bodily weakness,
all show that she is not sufficiently nourished. In her case there is apparently not only an
absence of appetite but a positive disgust for food; and another symptom often present in inanition--vomiting
when nutriment is taken into the stomach--appears also to be a prominent feature. It is probable
that there is likewise a notable diminution in the amount of urine excreted, as this is a common
accompaniment of hysterical manifestations such as hers. In some instances the function appears
to be almost entirely arrested, as was the fact in a case described by M. Charcot,[27] and
in two which have come under my own observation.

There is nothing remarkable in the admitted fact that Miss Fancher eats very little. We have
seen how existence can be kept up on greatly reduced quantities of food, and under circumstances
such as those governing her case, for periods which would be impossible in healthy persons.
No one yet under any conditions, whether of hysteria or trance or assumed miraculous interference,
has, to the satisfaction of competent and disinterested investigators, lived even two months
without the ingestion of any food whatever. As to going nearly fourteen years in a state of
abstinence--a statement in her behalf which many persons believe to be true--I can only say
that all the teachings of science and of experience are against the claim. No one who had the
most superficial idea of what knowledge is and how facts can be proven, would for a moment
accept such a preposterous story, no matter by whom asserted.

The whole subject is one which is to be examined into and determined like any other matter,
and yet, when a proposition is made to investigate by skilled observers the remarkable claim
put forward, it is met with abuse and misrepresentation, as if these people thought that all
they had to do was to make an assertion of a phenomenon which, according to what we know of
nature, is absurd and impossible, to have it at once accepted by those who know, by painful
experience, how doubtful all things are till they are proven, and how difficult it is to get
satisfactory evidence of the most simple event in physiology or pathology. No one doubts the
abstract possibility of a human being living without food, for, bearing in mind the discoveries
that are constantly being made, nothing can be regarded as absolutely impossible outside the
domain of mathematics. Two and two cannot make six, neither can two distinct bodies occupy
the same space at the same time, nor the square of the hypothenuse be otherwise than equal
to the sum of the squares of the other two sides of a right-angled triangle.

Our knowledge of natural science is, however, founded on experience. Looking at a bear, for
instance, for the first time, and with no knowledge of its habits and capacities we would not
be apt to believe that the animal could go into retirement at the beginning of winter and remain
till spring in a condition of semi-existence and without food. But experience teaches us that
the bear when it begins to hibernate is fat; that during hibernation it is in a perfectly quiescent
state; that when it emerges into active life again it is emaciated, and that during the whole
period of retirement it has taken nothing into its stomach. We then know by observing that
all bears go through the same process, that it is a law of their organism to do so, and that
their reduced functional actions are maintained by the consumption of the fat with which in
the beginning their bodies were loaded. Even here, then, there is no exception to the law that
there is no force without the decomposition of matter. Now, it is just possible that by some
hitherto unknown or unrecognized condition of the system a man or woman may obtain the force
necessary to carry on life for fourteen years without getting it through food taken into the
stomach. But a possibility and a fact are two very different things, and the admitted possibility
has not yet been shown to be a fact. It is easier--to use the argument of Hume--for the mind
to accept the view that there is deception or error somewhere, than to believe that a woman,
contrary to all human experience, should live fourteen years without food. Turtles, we know,
will live for months while entirely deprived of nutriment. Many others of the cold-blooded
animals will do the same thing. It is their nature to do so, and we have experience of the
fact, but it is not the nature of women, so far as we know, and therefore we refuse to accept
as true the stories which are told of their powers in this direction. And our knowledge is
based not only on our daily experience of the wants of their systems and the examples of starvation
which have come to our knowledge, but also upon the fact that in the many cases of alleged
long abstinence from food that have been investigated, error or deception has been discovered.
Therefore, when it is said that Miss Fancher lives without food, and has so done for fourteen
years, we simply say, "give us the proofs." Of course the proofs are not given.

How far Miss Fancher is responsible for the assertions that have been made in regard to her
long-continued abstinence I do not know. A tendency to deception is a notable phenomenon of
hysteria, and if she has led those about her to accept the view that she has existed without
food for years, the circumstance would be in no way remarkable. Other hysterical women have
deceived in the same or in still more astonishing ways. Or it may be that the amount of food
taken being very small, carelessness or want of exactness has led to the expression that she
lived upon "absolutely nothing," just as we hear the words used every day by those who have
little or no appetite, but who nevertheless do eat something. Again, a love for the marvellous
is so deeply rooted in the average human mind that it willingly, and to a certain extent unconsciously,
adds to any statement of a remarkable circumstance, till the latter grows, whilst being repeated,
to fabulous dimensions.

But however this may be, whatever the explanation, it is quite certain that if Miss Fancher
has lived fourteen years without food, or even fourteen months, or weeks, she is a unique psychological
or pathological individual, whose case is worthy of all the consideration which can be given
to it, not by superstitious or credulous or ignorant persons, but by those who, trained in
the proper methods of scientific research, would know how to get the whole truth of her case,
and nothing but the truth. It is to be regretted, therefore, that the proposition contained
in the annexed letter (Appendix) was not accepted, and that we are forced to place Miss Fancher's
case among the others which have proved to be fallacious, till such time as it may suit her
and her friends to allow of such an examination.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] Recherches expérimentales sur l'inanition. Paris, 1843, p. 20.

[16] Universal Magazine, Vol. XXXVI, p. 250.

[17] Abridged Philosophical Transaction, Vol. III, p. 111.

[18] Traité de médecine légale et d'hygiène publique. Paris, 1813. t. II, p. 285.

[19] Medical Gazette, Vol. XVII, p. 389.

[20] Des maladies mentales. Paris, 1838, p. 203.

[21] Du refus de manger chez les aliénés. Thèse de Paris 1864, p.

[22] Nouveau dictionnaire de médecine et de chirurgie pratiques. Paris, 1874. t. XVIII., Art.
Inanition, p. 503.

[23] New York Medical and Surgical Journal, Vol. II, p. 31.

[24] Quoted from Trans. of the Albany Institute by Dr. Lee in Copland's Dictionary of Medicine.
Vol. I, p. 31.

[25] Recherches expérimentales sur les effets de l'abstinence. Journal de Physiologie de Magendie,
t. VIII, p. 150.

[26] De l'anorexie hystérique. Archives générales de médecine, April 1875.

[27] Leçons sur les maladies du système nerveux, t. I., 2d edition. Paris, 1876, p. 178.

APPENDIX.

The following letter embraces the proposition made to Miss Fancher, to which allusion is made
in the text:

    TO THE EDITOR OF THE HERALD:--

    I have read the letter of Professor Henry M. Parkhurst, published in
    a recent issue of the HERALD, relative to the "mind reading" or
    clairvoyance of Miss Mollie Fancher, of Brooklyn, and it does not
    satisfy me that the young lady in question possesses any such power.
    It would have been very easy for her to have opened the envelope
    without disturbing the seal and to have read the contents. Now,
    there has been a great deal of talk about Miss Fancher's case. I
    have received just fifty-seven letters asking me to investigate it,
    and the press has reiterated the invitation over and over again. I
    have stated very explicitly that I regard the whole matter as a
    humbug of the most decided kind, but I have never asserted the
    impossibility of the young lady's alleged performances. On the
    contrary, I hold nothing to be absolutely impossible outside the
    domain of mathematics. But possibilities and realities are very
    different things, and I certainly will not accept as true any such
    phenomena as those asserted to have been associated with Miss
    Fancher unless they are proven.

    I have already declared my readiness to investigate Miss Fancher,
    and, a few days since, in the Sun, proposed a test which will be
    perfectly satisfactory to me and many others who, at present, are in
    accordance with me in my estimation of this young lady. Permit me
    now to state it definitely, specifically, and once for all. I will
    place a certified check for a sum of money exceeding $1,000 inside
    of a single paper envelope. I will lay the package on a table in the
    room in which she is. If she chooses she may take it in her hands
    and place it in contact with any part of her body. I will allow her
    half an hour to describe the check. If she reads it--number, date,
    on whom drawn, amount, signature, etc.--accurately, she may have the
    check as her own property, or I will give the amount expressed in
    the check, in her name to any charitable institution she may
    designate, or otherwise dispose of it in accordance with her
    wishes.

    The only conditions I exact are these:--

    First--That the experiment be conducted in my presence and in that
    of two other physicians, members of the New York Neurological
    Society, whom I will bring with me as witness simply, and who will
    not interfere in any way with the test.

    Second--That the envelope shall at no time pass out of our sight.

    If Miss Fancher succeeds in this test I will admit that heretofore
    in my denunciations of such performances as hers I have been in
    error, and that there is a force in nature which ought to be
    investigated. I will pay the money not only without chagrin, but
    with great satisfaction, and will consider that I have received full
    value.

    If she fails, as I am quite sure she will, I shall not hesitate to
    continue to denounce her as an imposition in this as well as in her
    assumed abstinence from food.

    A word further in regard to this last matter. I know something about
    "fasting girls" and their frauds, not excepting the sad case of poor
    little Sarah Jacob. But I will make this additional proposition:--If
    Miss Fancher will allow herself to be watched, day and night, for
    one month, by relays of members of the New York Neurological
    Society, I will give her $1,000 if at the end of that month she has
    not in the meantime taken food voluntarily or as a forced measure to
    save her from dying of starvation, the danger of this last
    contingency to be judged of by her family physician, Dr. Speir.
    These offers to remain open for acceptance till twelve o'clock M.,
    December 31st. If not taken up by that time, let us hear no more in
    support of Miss Fancher's mind reading or clairvoyance, or living
    for a dozen or more years without food.

                                              WILLIAM A. HAMMOND, M.D.

    43 West Fifty-Fourth Street, New York, Dec. 12th, 1878.

    Hyphenation and punctuation have been standardised. 4, 'Παςατηςήσεων' amended to Παρατηρήσεων
      p. 7, fn. 4, added rararum: 'medicarum, rararum, novarum'
      p. 7, fn. 4, 'monstrasarum' amended to monstrosarum
      p. 8, '1567' amended to 1597
      p. 9, fn. 7, 'chirurgicæ' amended to chirurgicarum
      p. 15, 'Anne Jones' amended to Ann Jones
      p. 16, 'fœcal' amended to fæcal
      p. 26, 'fœces' amended to fæces
      p. 31, 'Cardinal Carrafa' amended to Cardinal Carafa
      p. 40, 'Farenheit' amended to Fahrenheit
      p. 41, fn. 13, 'Rapport Médicale' amended to Rapport Médical
      p. 41, fn. 13, added de: 'médecine de Belgique'
      p. 44, 'ecstacy' amended to ecstasy
      p. 44, added of: 'direction of M. le Curé'
      p. 46, 'fecal' amended to fæcal
      p. 47, 'stigmatisations' amended to stigmatizations
      p. 48, 'fortell' amended to foretell
      p. 48, 'marvelous' amended to marvellous
      p. 58, 'is' amended to it: 'that it is stated'
      p. 58, 'Dr. Spier' amended to Dr. Speir
      p. 60, 'assimulated' amended to assimilated
      p. 60, 'alchohol' amended to alcohol
      p. 62, 'Bergemolletta' amended to Bergemoletto
      p. 62, 'breath' amended to breadth
      p. 62, 'Belguim' amended to Belgium
      p. 63, fn. 18, 'médicine' amended to médecine
      p. 64, 'palid' amended to pallid
      p. 64, fn. 22, 'Nouvreau' amended to Nouveau
      p. 64, fn. 22, 'médicine' amended to médecine
      p. 67, 'messentery' amended to mesentery
      p. 67, 'their' amended to there
      p. 67, 'hemorrhage' amended to hæmorrhage
      p. 68, 'Chosset' amended to Chossat
      p. 69, fn. 26, 'médicine' amended to médecine
      p. 71, 'her's' amended to hers
      p. 71, 'injestion' amended to ingestion
      p. 76, 'Sarah Jacobs' amended to Sarah Jacob
      p. 76, 'Dr. Spier' amended to Dr. Speir

    The page reference in fn. 21 (p. 64) was omitted in the original text.

