But the truer answer to the inquiry how language arose, is this: God gave man language, just
as He gave him reason, and just because He gave him reason; for what is man's word but his
reason, coming forth that it may behold itself? They are indeed so essentially one and the
same that the Greek language has one word for them both. He gave it to him, because he could
not be man, that is, a social being, without it. Yet this must not be taken to affirm that
man started at the first furnished with a full-formed vocabulary of words, and as it were with
his first dictionary and first grammar ready-made to his hands. He did not thus begin the world
with names, but with the power of naming: for man is not a mere speaking machine; God did not
teach him words, as one of us teaches a parrot, from without; but gave him a capacity, and
then evoked the capacity which He gave. Here, as in everything else that concerns the primitive
constitution, the great original institutes, of humanity, our best and truest lights are to
be gotten from the study of the first three chapters of Genesis; and you will observe that
there it is not God who imposed the first names on the creatures, but Adam-- Adam, however,
at the direct suggestion of his Creator. 19). Here we have the clearest intimation of the origin,
at once divine and human, of speech; while yet neither is so brought forward as to exclude
or obscure the other.

And so far we may concede a limited amount of right to those who have held a progressive acquisition,
on man's part, of the power of embodying thought in words. I believe that we should conceive
the actual case most truly, if we conceived this power of naming things and expressing their
relations, as one laid up in the depths of man's being, one of the divine capabilities with
which he was created: but one (and in this differing from those which have produced in various
people various arts of life) which could not remain dormant in him, for man could be only man
through its exercise; which therefore did rapidly bud and blossom out from within him at every
solicitation from the world without and from his fellow-man; as each object to be named appeared
before his eyes, each relation of things to one another arose before his mind. It was not merely
the possible, but the necessary, emanation of the spirit with which he had been endowed. Man
makes his own language, but he makes it as the bee makes its cells, as the bird its nest; he
cannot do otherwise. [Footnote: Renan has much of interest on this matter, both in his work
De l'Origine du Langage, and in his Hist. des Langues Semitiques. I quote from the latter,
p. 445: Sans doute les langues, comme tout ce qui est organise, sont sujettes a la loi du developpement
graduel. En soutenant que le langage primitif possedait les elements necessaires a son integrite,
nous sommes loin de dire que les mecanismes d'un age plus avance y fussent arrives a leur pleine
existence. Tout y etait, mais confusement et sans distinction. Le temps seul et les progres
de l'esprit humain pouvaient operer un discernement dans cette obscure synthese, et assigner
a chaque element son role special. La vie, en un mot, n'etait ici, comme partout, qu'a la condition
de l'evolution du germe primitif, de la distribution des roles et de la separation des organes.
Mais ces organes eux-memes furent determines des le premier jour, et depuis l'acte generateur
qui le fit etre, le langage ne s'est enrichi d'aucune fonction vraiment nouvelle. Un germe
est pose, renfermant en puissance tout ce que l'etre sera un jour; le germe se developpe, les
formes se constituent dans leurs proportions regulieres, ce qui etait en puissance devient
en acte; mais rien ne se cree, rien ne s'ajoute: telle est la loi commune des etres soumis
aux conditions de la vie. Telle fut aussi la loi du langage.]

How this latent power evolved itself first, how this spontaneous generation of language came
to pass, is a mystery; even as every act of creation is of necessity such; and as a mystery
all the deepest inquirers into the subject are content to leave it. Yet we may perhaps a little
help ourselves to the realizing of what the process was, and what it was not, if we liken it
to the growth of a tree springing out of, and unfolding itself from, a root, and according
to a necessary law--that root being the divine capacity of language with which man was created,
that law being the law of highest reason with which he was endowed: if we liken it to this
rather than to the rearing of a house, which a man should slowly and painfully fashion for
himself with dead timbers combined after his own fancy and caprice; and which little by little
improved in shape, material, and size, being first but a log house, answering his barest needs,
and only after centuries of toil and pain growing for his sons' sons into a stately palace
for pleasure and delight.

Were it otherwise, were the savage the primitive man, we should then find savage tribes, furnished
scantily enough, it might be, with the elements of speech, yet at the same time with its fruitful
beginnings, its vigorous and healthful germs. But what does their language on close inspection
prove? In every case what they are themselves, the remnant and ruin of a better and a nobler
past. Fearful indeed is the impress of degradation which is stamped on the language of the
savage, more fearful perhaps even than that which is stamped upon his form. When wholly letting
go the truth, when long and greatly sinning against light and conscience, a people has thus
gone the downward way, has been scattered off by some violent catastrophe from those regions
of the world which are the seats of advance and progress, and driven to its remote isles and
further corners, then as one nobler thought, one spiritual idea after another has perished
from it, the words also that expressed these have perished too. As one habit of civilization
has been let go after another, the words which those habits demanded have dropped as well,
first out of use, and then out of memory and thus after a while have been wholly lost.

Moffat, in his Missionary Labours and Scenes in South Africa, gives us a very remarkable example
of the disappearing of one of the most significant words from the language of a tribe sinking
ever deeper in savagery; and with the disappearing of the word, of course, the disappearing
as well of the great spiritual fact and truth whereof that word was at once the vehicle and
the guardian. The Bechuanas, a Caffre tribe, employed formerly the word 'Morimo,' to designate
'Him that is above' or 'Him that is in heaven' and attached to the word the notion of a supreme
Divine Being. This word, with the spiritual idea corresponding to it, Moffat found to have
vanished from the language of the present generation, although here and there he could meet
with an old man, scarcely one or two in a thousand, who remembered in his youth to have heard
speak of 'Morimo'; and this word, once so deeply significant, only survived now in the spells
and charms of the so- called rainmakers and sorcerers, who misused it to designate a fabulous
ghost, of whom they told the absurdest and most contradictory things.

