Davane accordingly went on shore in the boat which had brought the provisions, dressed in a
red robe, so as to look as dignified as possible, and presented himself at the palace.  After
some conversation with the King, satisfied that his intentions were honest, he thanked his
Majesty for the refreshments he had sent, and said the Captain-Major, accepting his invitation,
would enter when the pilots thought fit.

Several persons of distinction came on board, among them the principal priest of the mosque,
who was honourably received: preserves in a silver vase, and water with a napkin, being presented
to him.  The pilots having taken in the ships and anchored them in a secure place, they were
decked out with flags.  The crews then fired a salute with all their artillery, so that the
very city shook.  Several of the larger guns being discharged to seaward, the shots went skimming
and ricochetting over the water, causing great amusement to the people collected on the beach,
while the trumpets sounded and the men cheered.

When the priest was about to be sent on shore he informed the Captain-Major that he had been
directed to remain there as a hostage until all arrangements were completed.  On this the Captain-Major
assured him that he required no hostages, as he was convinced of the good intentions of the King.

Soon after this the old Moor Dias, who had been captured in the zambuk, presented himself to
the King, and entreated that he would make interest to have himself, his wife, and crew restored
to liberty, observing that none of his property had been touched, nor had any harm been done
them. The King accordingly sent a message to Vasco da Gama, who immediately directed Davane
to take a boat and tow the zambuk, with the old Moor and all his property, to the city, and
present them to the King.

When Captain Dias and the others heard this, they exclaimed, raising their hands to heaven,
"May God reward you and all your company, and restore you to your country in health and safety!"

By this and other judicious measures, Vasco da Gama secured the friendship of the King.  Nicolas
Coelho was also sent on shore, richly dressed, accompanied by Davane, to pay a visit of ceremony
to the King, who was highly pleased at seeing him, and bade him sit on the same carpet on which
he himself was seated, a stool inlaid with ivory and worked with gold being placed for him.

The sagacious Coelho did not fail to impress the King with the great power and dignity of the
sovereign of Portugal, whom he represented as the chief Christian monarch of the world.  After
the interview, Coelho was carried on board the Saint Raphael in the King's barge of state,
richly adorned and gilt.  The King also presented him with some fine coloured cloths, and with
a ring having a blue stone set in it.

Everything the ships required was purchased on shore, and paid for with silver testoons, which
went for double their worth.  The honest Coelho's visit having been so successful, it was arranged
that the King should have an interview with the two chief Captains.  The day being fixed, they
dressed themselves in their most splendid costumes, all the men they took with them being likewise
handsomely clothed.

Each Captain went in his boat, seated on a chair covered with crimson velvet, with a carpet
underneath, the sides of the boats being covered with rugs, on which the men sat.  The boat,
adorned with several flags, had also two swivel guns, and two cannoneers ready to discharge them.

A salute being fired as they left the ships, they proceeded side by side to the shore, where
the King was waiting for them with his attendants, the people crowding the walls, the houses,
and beach.

The King then came on board Vasco da Gama's boat, where a carpet had been spread and a chair
placed for him to sit upon.  The usual complimentary speeches having been exchanged, the Captains
falling on their knees tried to kiss his hand, when the King made them rise, on which the crews
of the boats shouted "Welcome, the Lord be praised!" The trumpets sounded and the great guns
saluted as had been arranged. On hearing the trumpets the King seemed highly delighted.

The King having landed, the two brothers returned to their ships, and gave an account to Nicolas
Coelho of what had passed.

The next day Vasco da Gama paid a visit to the King at his palace, where his Majesty made him
sit down on a silk dais, and the same sort of compliments passed as before.

The chief drawback to the satisfaction of the voyagers was that, although furnished with a
variety of provisions, they were unable to obtain flour, which was not produced in the country.

The King, that they might not be cheated, sent a crier over the city, ordering that nobody
was to sell anything to the Portuguese for more than it was worth, and that, should the law
be infringed, he would burn down the culprit's house.

The King now expressed his wish to visit the ships, and the Captain-Major having fixed a day,
they were cleaned and ornamented with flags; the quarter-decks were covered with figured stuffs
from Flanders, and carpets and rugs, lances with the points burnished, and naked swords and
other weapons, with splendid breast-plates, on which were engraved the arms of the Captains,
were hung up; while in the cabin was a sideboard covered with plate, all the attendants being
splendidly dressed.

The Captain-Major, going on shore, received the King, who was accompanied to the ship by numberless
boats, with flags flying, kettledrums and other musical instruments being played; but when
the trumpets of the Portuguese sounded, all kept silence that they might be heard.  The great
guns of the ships fired salutes and the people shouted as the King, mounting the ladder, came
on board, where the Captains, supporting him in their arms, with great courtesy placed him
in a chair on the quarter-deck.

The King having sat some time, was conducted into the cabin, where a handsome table was spread
with napkins, conserves, confectionery and preserved almonds which had been brought in glass
bottles, oranges and cases of marmalade.

The King and his courtiers appeared to have been more pleased with the olives than anything
else.  They were presented with wine in gilt vessels, which they refused, but they drank water
from silver cups and gilt glasses.

After the King had finished eating, Vasco da Gama took a richly gilt and chased hand-basin
and ewer to match, and was about to pour water on the King's hands; but to this, out of courtesy,
his Majesty would not consent.  He, however, allowed one of his people to pour out the water,
when he washed his hands and mouth, and dried them on a napkin embroidered with gold.

The Captain-Major then ordered the water to be emptied, and put the basin and ewer in their
cases, and requested the King to accept them, saying that, as they had been employed in his
service, it would be improper to allow anybody else to make use of them.

At this the King was highly pleased, declaring that no sovereign in India possessed such things.
On returning to the shore, the King would not allow the Captains to leave their boats as he
took leave of them. Vasco da Gama also sent the chair in which the King had sat as a present,
greatly to his delight.

Thus was a firm friendship secured between the explorers and the natives, so that the former
could go on shore without the slightest fear of receiving ill treatment.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

VOYAGE OF VASCO DA GAMA, CONTINUED--A.D. 1498.

Vessels fitted with tanks--Native pilots agree to guide them to India-- Their advanced knowledge
of navigation--Another column erected--A convict lad left with the King--Farewells--Ships sail--Mortality--Coast
of India seen--Anchor off Capocate--Dark-skinned naked natives appear-- Da Gama's politic treatment
of natives--A Nair comes from the King of Calecut--Da Gama fabricates a story to account for
his visit--The Moorish traders plot to destroy the Portuguese--A Castilian comes on board--Warns
da Gama of the Moors' plot--Nicolas Coelho sent on shore with rich presents for the King--Tired
by delays--Coelho received by the King--Arrangements made for trading--Merchandise landed--Damaged
spices offered in return--Received by the Portuguese--The Castilian warns da Gama not to venture
on shore without hostages--Hostages sent off--Vasco da Gama visits the King of Calecut--Magnificent
presents sent by the King.

The time for continuing the voyage having arrived, being the 15th of July, 1498, the King assisted
his new friends in making all preparations for their departure.  He sent on board two experienced
pilots, the Mozambique pilot also agreeing to go with them.  They had constructed tanks at
the bottom of the ships, sewn together with coir thread and covered with pitch in such a way
that they were more watertight than casks.  Each ship had four of these tanks placed at the
foot of the mainmast, containing thirty pipes of water.

Their pilots possessed nautical instruments greatly differing from their own, but equally useful;
indeed, they were not much inferior in skill to the Portuguese navigators.  To each of the
pilots, in the presence of the King, Vasco da Gama gave fifty cruzadados to leave with their
wives, with which the King was greatly pleased, and still more so when the Captain-Major judiciously
presented him, in a handkerchief, with ten golden Portugueses.  The King assured Vasco da Gama
that the broker Davane would act honestly, and that as he was now fairly acquainted with the
Portuguese language, he would be of the greatest benefit.  He warned his friends, however,
to be on their guard against the people of Calecut, who were noted for their want of faith,
advising them not to trust themselves on shore without safe hostages.  Like a true friend,
he gave them much more faithful counsel.  He had also prepared a banquet, at which they were
sumptuously entertained, and he sent boats laden with food to the ships sufficient for both crews.

The last duty Vasco da Gama had to perform was to set up one of the marble pillars which he
had brought.  The King, on hearing of his intention, requested that it might be placed within
the palace, but Vasco da Gama explained that the object was to let it be visible to all who
entered the port, and it was accordingly placed on the summit of a hill near the city.  It
was similar to that they had erected at the mouth of the River of Mercy.  The King sent stonemasons
to assist in erecting it.  When it was placed the crews of the ships landed and offered up
prayers, when the trumpets sounded and a salute was fired from the ships.

The Captain-Major now presented the King with a convict ship-boy, saying he was left in order,
should any Portuguese ships come to the country, that he might be able to describe the benefits
and gifts the King had bestowed on his countrymen.  Vasco da Gama requested also, should the
boy wish to go to any other place, that he might be permitted to do so, as no one without a
willing heart could serve well.  The same day the pilots went on board the ships, one accompanying
Paulo da Gama, and the other, as also the Mozambique pilot, Vasco da Gama.

The men had cabins given them in which to live and stow their property. Lastly the King sent
off boats laden with biscuits, rice, butter, cocoa-nuts, powdered sugar in sacks, sheep salted
whole and others alive, and fowls and vegetables in great abundance.  He also accompanied the
boats alongside the ships, showing by unmistakable signs his regret at parting with them, and
saying very affectionate things while he bade them farewell.  As they hoisted in the boats
the trumpets sounded, and the crews shouted "Lord God have mercy upon us!  Farewell!"

With a fair wind the next morning, the trumpets sounding and the ships dressed in flags, the
anchors were weighed, the sails hoisted, and the crews praising God for the favours shown them,
they stood out to sea. The hardships they had endured and sickness had already carried off
many of the seamen of both ships.  Of the six priests four had died.  Scurvy, although the
name was unknown, had broken out during the lengthened period they had been at sea, without
the power of obtaining fresh provisions, which could alone have cured the complaint.

After sailing on for twenty-two days, land was espied, as the pilots had told them it would
be; and a lofty mountain, off which they came, was, they were informed, in the kingdom of Cananor.
The name of the mountain was Delielly, or The Rat, so named on account of the number of rats
frequenting the region, which prevented it being inhabited.  On nearing the land, they sailed
along it until they came in sight of a large city of thatched houses, in a bay called Cananor.

As a reward for the services they had rendered in carrying the ships safely across the Indian
Ocean, each pilot received a robe of red cloth and ten testoons.

Standing along the coast, the ships passed close to the town of Cananor, which, being a mean
place, greatly disappointed Vasco da Gama, as he supposed that it was Calecut; but the pilots
set him right, and conducted him twelve leagues farther on, when the anchors were dropped off
the town of Capocate, two leagues from the large city of Celecut, situated in a bay.  As they
gazed towards the shore, they could see a number of dark, nearly naked people, their only garments
being cloths half-way down their thighs, who came flocking to the beach.  A council was held
on board Paulo da Gama's ship, when Davane advised that no one should venture on shore without
hostages.  He stated that the King of Calecut was the most powerful sovereign on the coast
of India, and that he was very vain and very rich on account of the trade of his city.

In a short time a number of fishing-boats came off, and, being called alongside by the Moorish
pilot, the fishermen willingly sold their fish.

Vasco da Gama told the pilots to repeat to the fishermen the story he had invented: that he
had separated from a large fleet of Portuguese ships of which he was in search, and that he
had hoped to find them at this port.  He would allow no one on board to trade except the pilots,
who were ordered to give whatever the fishermen demanded.

Among other boats one loaded with wood came alongside, but as the ships had abundance it was
not purchased.  There were six men in the boat, and knowing that they would be disappointed
at not finding a market for their wood, to their great surprise, as also to that of Davane,
Vasco da Gama ordered that a vintin should be given to each of them; so that, when they returned
on shore, they did not fail to praise the strangers.

The Captain-Major had resolved not to land until he had received permission from the King to
do so, but three days passed and no messenger came off.  Davane was therefore directed to go
on shore, with a request to the ruler of the country that he would allow the Portuguese to
visit him.  Just as he was about to set off a large boat came to the ship, bringing an officer
of the King, called a Nair.  His only garment was a white cloth, covering his body from the
middle to half-way down his legs.  He carried a light round shield and a short sword with an
iron hilt.  Addressing the Captain-Major, who was pointed out to him, he stated that he came
to ascertain who the new-comers were, and what they required in the port.

Vasco da Gama replied that he was the servant of the greatest Christian king in the world,
who had sent a fleet of fifty ships out to these seas to obtain cargoes of pepper and drugs,
in exchange for the rich merchandise of gold and silver which they had brought, and that the
Portuguese were anxious to establish a lasting peace with the King and people of the country
at which they had arrived.  He then stated that he himself was the ambassador who had been
empowered to arrange the terms of the treaty his sovereign desired to make with the Zamorin
of Calecut. To impress the natives with an idea of the power of the King of Portugal, and to
prevent them from venturing on any hostile proceedings, for fear of the consequences, he added
that he had been separated from the rest of his fleet for a couple of years, during which he
had had visited Melinda, with whose King he had formed a lasting treaty of peace and friendship.
He now requested the Zamorin to conclude one of the same character between their two nations;
and, this being done, he would ask permission to land and carry on a trade with his people.

Soon after the Nair had gone back to the shore, a boat laden with fowls, figs (fresh and dry),
and cocoa-nuts, came off.  They were accepted out of courtesy, but the Captain-Major sent word
that he could neither buy nor sell anything until the treaty was concluded.  He stated, moreover,
that he could not go on shore until the King had sent hostages for his safety.

Now, as was afterwards ascertained, a large number of wealthy Moors resided in Calecut, who
had got the entire trade of the country into their hands.  They were Mohammedans, and by means
of their wealth had won over a large number of the common people to their faith.

They, on hearing of the arrival of the Portuguese, at once became jealous lest the new-comers
should take the trade from them, and therefore resolved by every artful means to defeat their
object, by representing to the King that they were spies, come to gain information about the
land and to possess themselves of it.  For this purpose the Moors had won over the chief ministers
of the King to favour their designs, though the liberality exhibited by the Portuguese had
at the first gained his good-will.

Before going on shore himself, the Captain-Major sent Davane, accompanied by Joab da Nunez,
one of the convicts,--a Christian and a man of talent, who could speak Arabic and Hebrew, and
also understood the Moorish language, although he could not speak it,--that he might go to
the city and ascertain the way of transacting business; he was ordered to buy only provisions,
while he listened to what was said without speaking himself.

On reaching the shore the two were so mobbed that they had great difficulty in making their
way, until an officer appeared, who took them under his charge, and compelled the people to
move aside so that they could pass through the streets.  The officer invited them to his house,
and on their way they encountered a man clothed as a Moor, but who addressed them in Castilian,
and requested them to come to his house, which they obtained permission from the officer to
do.  The seeming Moor gave them a brief outline of his history.  He was, he said, a native
of Seville, but that when a boy he was made a prisoner, and after having served many masters,
had obtained his freedom.  Although he had all the time, he averred, pretended to be a Moor,
he was still at heart a Christian.  On hearing the account he gave of himself, Joab Nunez invited
him off to see the Captain-Major, and the next day he made his appearance on board.  He then
acknowledged that his object had at first been to betray the Portuguese, but on entering the
cabin his heart had been changed, and his great desire was now to serve them.  He warned them
of the treachery intended them by the Moors, and offered to go on shore to obtain all the information
he could, so as to give it to them.

At a council held soon after by the three Captains, Paulo and Nicolas Coelho entreated Vasco
da Gama not to go on shore, as he would hazard his life; but he replied that he had resolved
to do so in the service of the King; that his life he did not value, and that should he be
killed, they must make the best of their way back to Portugal with the account of their important
discovery.

He consented, however, before he went himself, to send Nicolas Coelho to obtain an audience
of the King, and to ascertain his feelings towards the Portuguese.  Accordingly he got ready
the presents intended for his Majesty, and ordered twelve of the best-looking of his men, handsomely
dressed, to accompany the brave captain.

The presents consisted of a piece of the finest scarlet cloth, one of crimson velvet, and another
of yellow satin, a chair covered with brocade and studded with silver-gilt nails, a cushion
of crimson satin with tassels of golden thread, a smaller one of red satin for the feet to
rest on, a hand-basin and ewer chased and gilt, a splendid gilt mirror, fifty scarlet caps,
and fifty sheathed knives with ivory handles gilt.

These things being arranged, were placed in napkins on the deck.  The Nair, who soon afterwards
came on board, greatly admired them, and intimated that the King was ready to receive the ambassador.

On this Nicolas Coelho, accompanied by the twelve men in rich costumes, at once went on shore,
and, surrounded by the people, proceeded to the palace.  He, however, was not received that
evening, and was compelled to take up his abode in the house of one of the natives, where he
was but meanly entertained.

During the night the Castilian came and warned him not to grow angry with these delays, as
he was thus treated in order to make him lose his temper.  Following this advice, he the next
morning pretended to be quite at his ease.

At length, when the overseer appeared, Nicolas Coelho requested that a boat might be prepared
to take him back to the ship.  Seeing that he was not to be put out of temper, the overseer
at last consented to introduce him to the King, whom he found seated in a summer-house on a
low couch covered with white cloth, one of his priests attending near him.

Coelho kept silence until the King bade him speak.  He then, Joab Nunez acting as interpreter,
delivered the message he had brought from the Captain-Major.

After hearing it, the King bade him retire, saying that the overseer of the treasury would
bring him an answer; but Nicolas replied that he could receive no answer but from the King
himself.  After he had waited for some time, the priest brought him out an agreement signed
on the dry leaf of a palm-tree, granting all the requests of the Captain-Major, the priest
swearing that it was the King's signature.

When Nicolas Coelho returned on board and gave an account of his interview with the King, Vasco
da Gama was highly pleased, and ordered flags to be hoisted, trumpets to be sounded, and salutes
to be fired.

Having appointed Digo Diaz to act as factor, and Pedro da Braga as clerk, to be assisted by
Joao Nunez, Davane, and one of the pilots from Melinda, he sent on shore for the purpose of
trading, a chest of unwrought branch coral, the same quantity of vermilion, a barrel of quicksilver,
fifty pigs of copper, twenty strings of large cut coral, and as many of amber, five Portugueses
of gold, fifty cruzados, and a hundred testoons in silver; as also a table with a green cloth,
and a pair of wooden scales.  He directed his people to accept the prices offered, and to verify
the weight of everything with the scales.  The clerk was ordered likewise to write down in
a book which he carried the particulars of all transactions.

On arriving on shore, the factor hired a large house in two compartments, one for trade and
the other for living in.

The overseer of the treasury soon made his appearance, and sending for a money-changer, weighed
all the money, and proved it with his touchstones, setting a value on each coin which the clerk
wrote down. It was found to be higher than in Portugal.  A price was then set upon each article
of merchandise separately, on which a large profit was made.

The overseer of the treasury then inquired whether they wished to begin weighing at once, and
on their replying "Yes," he ordered a large number of sacks of pepper to be brought.  These
were weighed, and sent off to the ships.

As evening approached, the overseer requested the factor to say what goods were required for
the next day, that he might have them ready. Accordingly Pedro da Braga was sent back to learn
this from the Captain-Major, and to give a report of the transactions which had been concluded.

It should have been said that two armed boats were sent from the ships, which, as they could
not on account of the surf reach the shore, were anchored outside, with guns in their bows
to protect the factory, the people being carried ashore in the light native skiffs.

Vasco da Gama having received a hint that the natives were great rogues, resolved to outwit
them by leading them to suppose the Portuguese to be so ignorant that they might easily be
cheated, and thus greatly to desire their return to the country.  He therefore directed the
factor to receive any goods offered, and to pay whatever price might be asked, and always to
appear perfectly satisfied.

The trading was carried on day after day.  Pepper, being the heaviest, was the first article
obtained.  Ginger was next purchased; but it was, in order to preserve it, covered with clay.
More than a due proportion had, however, been put on, of which the factor was aware; but according
to the orders he had received, he did not complain, but desired that it should be surrounded
by more clay, that it might keep the better, paying for it as though it was all ginger.

Cinnamon was next offered.  The factor said he would rather wait, but the overseer of the treasury
declared that as it was ready it must be received.  When it came it was found to consist of
old cinnamon of bad quality, done up in packages of sticks and mats.  The factor again pretended
not to notice the way he was cheated, but sent word to the Captain-Major, who directed him
to take even worse goods.

These were afterwards offered, much of the pepper being mouldy and unfit for use, but it was
received as if it had been in good order.  Though the King was highly pleased at thus easily
getting rid of the damaged goods in his stores, the Moorish merchants, more keen-sighted than
he was, declared, with some show of reason, that the Portuguese could not be honest traders,
but were in reality pirates, who had come to spy out the land.

According to the Oriental custom, to give the Portuguese a great idea of his importance, the
King pretended to have forgotten all about the embassy, and day after day deferred sending
a message to say that he was ready to receive it.  The ministers at length, however, bribed
by the Moorish merchants, who were anxious to get the Portuguese Admiral into their power,
and hoped to do so should he venture on shore, advised the King no longer to delay inviting
him to pay his promised visit.

On hearing this, the Castilian, disguising himself as a beggar, came to the factory, and begging
alms in Castilian, was recognised by the factor, who took him inside.

The Castilian then strongly advised that the Captain-Major should not go on shore without proper
hostages, and promised to give a sign as to which was a good one of those offered.  After this
he retired, begging as he had entered.  The factor wrote to the Captain-Major, warning him
of the treachery intended, and a message was conveyed to the King intimating that Vasco da
Gama would not come until proper hostages were delivered up.  Three nairs were accordingly
sent to the factory, one of whom the Castilian pointed out as the King's nephew, and advised
that he especially should be strictly watched.  On the arrival of the hostages on board, they
were received with due honour and conducted into one of the cabins, where a watch was set over
them.

As he was about to depart, Vasco da Gama received information that the King had gone into the
country, where he would receive him.  The hostages soon afterwards requested to be allowed
to go on shore to eat; but this Vasco da Gama would not allow, observing that as he had received
them from the King, he could only return them by the King's command.

He had, in the meantime, sent word by a messenger, that he could not present himself as an
ambassador before the King, except at his own royal palace.  At length the messenger returned,
saying that his Majesty had returned to the city, and was now ready to receive the embassy.

Upon this the Captain-Major embarked in his barge, accompanied by Davane as interpreter, taking
with him several large Indian boats, loaded with packages.

Arriving at the factory, he dressed himself in a tawny-coloured cloak coming down to his feet,
and underneath a short tunic of blue satin, with white buskins, and on his head he wore a blue
velvet cap, having a white feather in it, fastened with a jewel; a richly enamelled collar
on his shoulders, and a sash with a handsome dagger completed his costume. He had also a page
habited in red satin.  Before him went a file of men, handsomely dressed, then other men carrying
the various gifts; in front of all the chair, carried upon Davane's head, while at their head
marched trumpeters sounding their instruments, the whole being conducted by the factor, with
a cane in his hand and his cap off.

As they proceeded through a long street the crowd was so great, many among the people being
Moors, with swords and shields, that it was with difficulty the Portuguese could make their
way, until several nairs arrived and drove the rabble aside.

The factor, having entered the palace, presented each of the articles to the King, who expressed
great satisfaction, especially with the chair, on which he took his seat.

When the Captain-Major arrived, he was conducted through many courts to a building opposite
to that where the audience was to be held.  From thence he proceeded to a hall adorned with
silken stuffs of various colours, in which the King was seated on the chair just presented
to him under a white canopy, handsomely worked and covering the whole room.  He was a very
dark man, half naked, covered only from the middle to the knees by a white robe, at the end
of which was a long point, on which were threaded several gold rings set with remarkably handsome
rubies.

On his left arm he wore a bracelet, above the elbow, consisting of three rings, the centre
one studded with rich jewels, and from it hung a large glittering diamond of inestimable price.
Round his neck was a string of pearls of the size of hazel-nuts.  The string took two turns,
and reached to his middle.  Above it he wore a thin gold chain, to which was suspended a jewel
in the form of a heart, surrounded by pearls and rubies.  In the middle was an emerald of the
size of a bean.

These jewels, according to the information received from the Castilian, belonged to the ancient
treasury of the Kings of Calecut.  The long dark hair of the King was tied in a knot on the
top of his head, and round the knot he wore a string of pearls, at the end of which was a pear-shaped
pearl of large size.  To his ears were suspended golden fairings of round beads.

By the side of the King stood two pages, one holding a red shield with a border of gilt and
jewels, and a drawn sword, having a hilt ornamented with gold and pendent pearls.  The other
page held a gold cup, into which the King spat.  By the side of his chair was a priest, who
from time to time gave him a green leaf containing lime and areca, which he chewed, making
his teeth and gums red.

Vasco da Gama, in his character of ambassador, on arriving made a profound salutation, and
the King, bowing his head and extending his right hand and arm, touched the right hand of the
Captain-Major with the tips of his fingers, and bade him sit on the dais by his side.

Vasco da Gama, through his interpreter, explained who he was, and repeated the account he had
already given.  He then presented a letter which had been written as if coming from the King
of Portugal, and signed with his hand and seal.  The King, receiving it, placed it on his breast
with both hands, and then, opening it, gave it to the overseer to be translated, and assured
Vasco da Gama that he might have whatever merchandise he wished to take on board and whatever
he required for his ships, and that he might send his people on shore to amuse themselves and
to buy what they liked.  Having ordered his minister to announce this by the crier, he dismissed
Vasco da Gama, saying that he would speak to him when more at leisure another day.

The Captain-Major, highly satisfied, retired, the trumpets blowing before him until he reached
the factory, where he took up his abode for the night.  Next day the overseer brought the Captain-Major
twenty pieces of fine white stuff embroidered with gold, and twenty other pieces of stuff also
white, and ten of coloured silk; also four large loaves of benzoin and fifty bags of musk,
as well as six basins and six jars of porcelain.  The overseer said that the King sent these
things for Vasco da Gama's own use, and that when he went away he would send more for his King.
Other presents were returned, and everything appeared to go on smoothly.

Vasco da Gama was much struck by the barbaric splendour of this petty Oriental potentate, little
aware that in the far-off interior there were other sovereigns possessed of infinitely greater
wealth and power, with whom the Portuguese would have found it impossible to contend.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

VOYAGE OF VASCO DA GAMA CONCLUDED--A.D. 1498-9.

Treacherous trick to entrap Vasco da Gama--The Castilian warns him not to complain--Badly treated--Carried
from place to place a prisoner-- Sends on board for merchandise--Still kept a prisoner--Orders
his brother to set sail for Spain--Nicolas Coelho refuses to desert him--He again sends, ordering
the hostages to be set free--The King learns the treachery of the Moors and makes amends to
Vasco da Gama--The Moors threatened with vengeance--The ships sail for Cananor--The King sends
provisions and invites the captains to land--Nicolas Coelho sent with presents--The King has
a pier and pavilion built, extending into the sea--The Captains visit him in great state--Davane
leaves them--Sail and anchor in a harbour of the islands of Angediva--Native vessels--Friendly
fishermen--Plot of a pilot to destroy the Portuguese--A Jew Admiral of the King of Goa sent
to capture them--The Jew seized--Confesses--His fleet of fustas destroyed--The survivors made
slaves--The Jew turns Christian--The ships sail across the Indian Ocean--Dreadful sickness--
Mombas bombarded--A fleet of zambuks out of Pate attacks the Portuguese--Driven off--Second
visit to Melinda--Pass close round the Cape of Good Hope--Many deaths--The Sargarco Sea--Reach
the island of Tercejra--Death of Paulo da Gama--Enter the Tagus the 18th of September, 1499--Vasco
da Gama cordially received by the King, who gives him the title of Dom--Nicolas Coelho exhibits
the treasures to the Queen--Second voyage of Vasco da Gama--Anchade reaches China--Macao founded--Sequeiro
sails up the Red Sea to the country of the Emperor of Ethiopia--The supposed Prester John--The
Moluccas discovered by Abreu--Third voyage of Dom Vasco da Gama as Viceroy of India--His magnificent
state in 1524-- His death at Cochin, the same year--Buried at Vidigueira in Portugal, of which
he was Count--Succeeded by his son Dom Estevan.

The trade at the factory continued.  Drugs, cloves, and nutmegs were brought in; the cloves,
however, were mostly bits of stick, and the nutmegs were half rotten, but the factor received
them as if they were sound.

The chief minister now arrived in a richly ornamented litter, borne on men's shoulders, with
a similar one empty, having a silken canopy over it and soft cushions within, saying that he
was sent to bring the ambassador to pay another visit to the King.  Accordingly Vasco da Gama
got into the one intended for him, while eight of his men got ready to accompany him on foot
and unarmed.  Just as they were setting out, the Castilian passed, and uttered the words,--"Sufrir
y callar."

"Endure and do not complain."

The Captain-Major had expected to arrive at the country palace of the King, but instead he
found himself, as night fell, at a poor house with common straw mats on which to sit.  Boiled
rice and boiled fish were brought for supper, but he was too indignant at the way he was being
treated to eat.

The next day the journey was continued, but by some means the officer who had charge of Vasco
da Gama got him separated from five of his men. The heat was excessive; the sun beat down on
their heads with terrible force.  At last they reached a river, when they embarked in a boat,
in which the Captain-Major was conducted a considerable distance, accompanied by Joao Nunez
and two others.  Again they landed, when the Captain-Major was shut up in a house, by himself
while his men were placed in another, though both were ignorant how near they were together.
The following day they were led by narrow paths through a jungle, and at the end of it the
Captain-Major was again shut up, separated from his men.  He now became not only indignant,
but very anxious.  At last he was led out and conducted to where the Prime Minister had taken
up his quarters.  That official, who looked very much out of humour, did not even bid him sit
down, but kept him standing until Joab Nunez, who had been sent for, arrived.  He then said
that a ship had come from Mombas, by which information had been received that the Portuguese
were pirates, and that they had behaved as such at Mombas and Quiloa.  He added that the King
of Calecut was very angry, and had ordered the Portuguese ship to be captured, and the officers
and crews to be kept in prison until they confessed the truth.  He therefore advised the Captain-Major
to confess the truth to him, that he might relate to the King what he said.

Vasco da Gama, on hearing this, almost laughed.  He replied that, if taken to the King, he
would tell him the truth, and that he might go and say so.  The Prime Minister, on hearing
this, was in a great rage, and cross-questioned Joab Nunez, who replied as he had been instructed.
The minister then told Vasco da Gama that he must land all the merchandise from both ships,
and have it put into the factory, and that after that the King would fill them up with what
they required.

Vasco da Gama replied that he would obey the commands of the King, but that it would be necessary
to send a message to the ships, or otherwise the merchandise would not be delivered up.  To
this, however, the minister appeared in no way inclined to agree.

In the meantime the men who had landed with the Captain-Major, and who had been kept separated
from him, were in great alarm as to what had happened, as were also those on board the ships;
for the factor could give them no information, and serious fears were entertained that he had
been murdered.  The hostages had also made an attempt to escape, as the minister had sent them
word by the boy who brought their food to do so; but Paulo had kept too strict a watch to allow
them to get out of the cabin in which they were confined.

At length one of the men who had accompanied the Captain-Major, Joab Setabal, came on board,
in a native boat, saying that he had been sent by Vasco da Gama, to let his brother know how
treacherously he had been entrapped, and directing him to send a boat laden with merchandise
of all sorts, and also that, should he himself not appear, he was to take back the factor,
and allow nobody else to go on shore.

Paulo da Gama, mild as he generally was, became furious on hearing this, but at once sent back
the native boat laden with merchandise.  When the boat arrived at the factory, the factor sent
to the minister--who had let him know where he was, and that the Captain-Major was with him--to
say that it had arrived, but that unless Vasco da Gama was allowed to return on board, no more
would be sent.

On hearing this the Captain-Major was much annoyed, and told the minister that if he would
dispatch ten large native boats, he would agree to go off and bring them back full of goods.

When, however, he was about to embark, the minister stopped him, saying that all the Portuguese
might return to their ships with the exception of himself, the interpreter, and two others,
who must remain on shore for the present; and that when the merchandise arrived, then he would
send him on board.

The Captain-Major, clearly seeing the treachery intended by the minister, dissembling his anger,
sent word to his brother that he was convinced, even should the boats full of goods be landed,
he himself would not be given up; and he therefore charged him to send the hostages on shore,
and then to make sail and return to Portugal.  "If he himself should be killed," he added,
"nothing would be lost, but that if Paulo and the ships were destroyed, their country would
fail to reap the benefit they had obtained for her."  He also entreated Paulo to lose no time
in getting under weigh, as he was very sure that the Moors would send out their ships to attack
them.

On receiving this message, Paulo da Garna and all the crews swore that without the Captain-Major
they would not leave the port, nor would they send any more goods; while honest Nicolas Coelho
was eager to go on shore, resolving that if the Captain-Major were not set free, he would remain
with him.

The hostages were then brought out of the cabin, and Paulo da Gama asked them if they were
sent by the King to remain in case any harm should be done to the ambassador.  They acknowledged
that such was the case, and that the Portuguese might cut off their heads if they pleased.

Paulo da Gama then replied that he had no intention of depriving them of life, but that they
should be immediately sent on shore, without any stipulation, as he would trust to their honour
to exert their influence in obtaining the liberty of his brother and his companions.  He remarked
also that should any harm be done their ambassador, the inhabitants of Calecut would for ever
be considered by all nations as the most treacherous and barbarous people in the world.  He
then bestowing many handsome presents on the hostages, sent them on shore with all due honour
in one of the ship's boats.

Meantime the Moors had gone to the King, and declaring that the Portuguese were pirates, had
offered to go out in their ships and attack them.  The King, believing this falsehood, ordered
the goods in the Portuguese factory to be brought to his palace, and commanded that the Captain-Major
and his companions should at once be put to death.

His chief priest and overseer of the treasury, on hearing this order issued, and clearly foreseeing
the consequences, hurried to the king, and entreated him not to commit so atrocious an act,
observing that the Portuguese had done no harm, but had been kind and peaceable, and had presented
the richest presents ever yet offered to a sovereign in India. At this juncture the hostages
arrived, and by stating how liberally they had been treated, and how nobly they had been set
free, turned the scale in favour of the Portuguese.

The King immediately sending for Vasco da Gama, humbly begged his pardon for the way he had
been treated, declaring that much had been done without his knowledge, and that he also had
been deceived by evil counsel.  Vasco da Gama replied that the King must act according to the
dictates of his sense of honour, and that had he murdered an ambassador, the world would have
spoken very ill of his Majesty.

The King then gave Vasco da Gama several pieces of fine stuff, and a piece of silk, with several
rubies and pearls, and again asking his pardon, and saying that those who had given him bad
counsel should be punished, honourably dismissed him.

On his way to the boats Vasco da Gama met the factor, who informed him that the factory had
been robbed, no doubt by the order of the King, but he would not allow the factor to complain,
though he warned the overseer of the treasury that he would at some time come back and revenge
on the heads of the Moors the wrongs he had received.  He then embarked with all his men, and
proceeded to the ships.  The Castilian, as they were shoving off, leaped into the boat and
begged leave to accompany them. Vasco da Gama was received with unbounded joy by his brother
and the officers and crews of the ships.

He rewarded the Castilian for his services by giving him five Portugueses of gold and a piece
of cloth and several red caps, and he signed a paper to the effect that he was a sincere friend
to the Portuguese, a faithful Christian, and that all confidence might be placed in him.  With
this the Castilian returned on shore, when he told the Moors of the hatred they had produced
in the breasts of the Portuguese, who swore that they would revenge themselves on their return
to India.  He also informed the overseer of the treasury that the Portuguese, when they came
back, would be his sincere friends.  These things were related to the King, who immediately
dispatched the Castilian with one of his chief ministers again to express his regret at what
had happened, saying that if the Portuguese would come again on shore they would see the punishment
he would inflict on the persons who had injured them.

The Captain-Major replied that he should not return to the port, and that he would take upon
himself at a future time the punishment of the Moors who had behaved ill to him and his followers.

As there was a fair wind the ships set sail and ran down the coast until they came off Cananor.
The King of that country having heard all that had taken place, resolved to win the friendship
of the Portuguese.

No sooner did the ships approach than he sent off a large boat, carrying a minister, to invite
them to his country.  Following the first boat came a number of others, laden with provisions
of all sorts.  The King stated that he would fill up their ships with cargoes of the goods
they had come in search of, at more favourable prices and in better condition than those they
had obtained in Calecut.

Vasco da Gama, highly pleased, as soon as the ships came to an anchor, sent off a boat with
Nicolas Coelho, bearing valuable presents, similar to those before presented to the King of
Calecut, but no one else was allowed to land.

Nicolas Coelho was well received, and was sent back in a native boat by the King, with a message
expressing a hope that the Captain-Major would visit him.  He also brought word that the King
had ordered a wooden pier to be run out into the water, with a small pavilion at the end of it.

The next day his Majesty came with numerous attendants and took a seat in the pavilion, which
was adorned with silken stuffs, and had also within it a dais covered with silk.  As soon as
he came in sight the captains, in their most splendid costumes, accompanied by a number of
their men handsomely dressed, the boats being highly decorated, and having streamers flying
of white and red silk, and the trumpets sounding, while salutes were fired as they left the
ships, rowed for the pier.

On approaching the pavilion in which the King was seated, the two Captains, taking off their
hats, bowed profoundly, when he, stepping to the front, entreated them to come up and take
seats by his side.  He then asked which of them had been imprisoned in Calecut.  Paulo da Gama,
pointing to his brother, answered, "That is the person whom the King of Calecu: thus insulted."

The King of Cananor then told them that he had received a letter from the King of Calecut exculpating
himself, and saying that what had been done was without his sanction, and that he was determined
to inflict a severe punishment on the guilty persons.  Much further conversation took place
of a satisfactory character, when the Captains returned to their ships.

They were three days taking on board the goods and provisions with which the King of Cananor
supplied them.  Vasco da Gama here dismissed Davane, and signed a document calling on all the
captains coming from Portugal to treat him as a sincere friend, whom they were always to honour.
He gave him also a hundred cruzados and a hundred testoons, besides the payment due to him,
and goods and other presents, so that the honest broker departed highly pleased.

As the crews were lifting the anchors, two large boats came off with a further supply of fowls
and other fresh provisions.  The sails were then loosed, and the two ships commenced their
homeward voyage on the 20th of November, in the year of grace 1498.  After proceeding some
distance, finding the winds contrary, the pilots recommended that they should put back; but
as Vasco da Gama objected to this, they steered a course for the island of Angediva, which
had a good port with plenty of wood and water, where they proposed to remain until the monsoon
had commenced. The only inhabitant of the island was a hermit, who lived in a grotto, and subsisted
on what was given him by passing ships.

The people enjoyed themselves much by being able to go on shore without fear of interruption.
Several native vessels came in, not seeing them until they were round the point.  They were
of two descriptions, some having their planks sewn together with coir rope, which had keels,
and others flat bottomed, the planking being secured by nails.  Their anchors were of hard
wood, with stones fastened to the shanks, so that they might sink to the bottom.  The rudders
were fastened by ropes passed outside.  They had no tops, and only one large sail of matting.
Instead of decks they had compartments, in which the different sorts of merchandise was stowed,
the whole covered with matting of palm-leaves, which formed a sort of shelving roof so that
the water could run off it, and was of strength sufficient to enable the crew to walk on the
top. They had no pumps, but only buckets of leather.  The yards were long and tapering, two-thirds
abaft the mast and one-third before it, with only a single sheet.  The tack of the sail was
made fast to the end of a sprit almost as long as the mast, so that they could set their sails
very flat, and steer close to the wind.  When they had to tack they lowered the sail half down
the mast, and then hauled upon the heel of the yard until they brought it to the foot of the
mast, and passed it over to the other side.

The ships which came in attempted to escape, but the boats were sent after them with Moorish
pilots, who persuaded them to return, assuring them that the Portuguese were peaceable, and
wished to be their friends. The captains, therefore, brought figs, cocoa-nuts, and fowls, and
persuaded the fishermen who had before kept away to come and sell their fish while the crews
and passengers landed to wash their clothes, so that the Portuguese and the natives became
great friends.

Here the ships were refitted, and water taken in.  While thus employed, a floating object,
which looked like a large raft, was seen approaching from the main coast, covered over with
branches.  Vasco da Gama's suspicions being aroused, he inquired of the fishermen what it was.
They informed him that it in reality consisted of a number of large low boats fastened together,
and was the device of a famous pirate, Timoja by name, who hoped thus to get alongside, and
then, with his men, while the Portuguese were unprepared, attack them.

On this the Captain-Major ordered his brother and Nicolas Coelho, who was on board the same
ship, to get under weigh, and go out and meet the pirate.  They did so, firing their guns as
they approached with such effect, that the boats were seen to separate and make with all speed
towards the shore.

Thus the Portuguese were saved from the threatened danger.  Some time passed, when, their preparations
being nearly completed, a small, fast, rowing vessel, called a fusta, carrying sails as well
as oars, was seen approaching Vasco da Gama's ship, and would have been received without suspicion
had not the faithful fishermen again warned him that treachery was intended.  They said that
during the night they had observed a large number of fustas come in and conceal themselves
in the islets and bays round the island, not more than half a league off, and that it was very
evident from this that they intended mischief; that they were under the command of a Jew, who
was admiral of the fleet of Sabayo, the ruler of Goa, a large city twelve leagues off; that
the object of the Jew was to surprise the ships, hoping to find them unprepared, and carry
them into Goa, so that Sabayo might obtain their cargoes.  Soon after dawn a small fusta, with
the Jew, came close up to the ships, as if about to pass by them to some other part.  On getting
near the stern he hailed the ships in Castilian, saying, "God preserve the Christian captains
and their crews," when the rowers giving a shout, the trumpets from the ships replied.  The
Jew, getting nearer, said, "Noble captain, give me a safe conduct, that I may come on board
your ships to learn the news."  Vasco da Gama replied that he might come on board in peace,
and that they would do him honour, as they were highly pleased to see a person who could speak
their language.  On this he came up the side, when he was placed in a chair, and the question
as to who he was, and where he came from, was put to him.

The Captain-Major now ordered Nicolas Coelho, who was in the other ship, to come with a boat
full of armed men, on the side where the fusta lay, and to board and capture her crew.

Several men were stationed ready to seize the Jew, and at the same moment he and all his men
were then suddenly made prisoners.  The Jew, on finding himself bound, complained bitterly
of the way he had been treated, having trusted to the safe conduct which had been given him.
The Captain-Major replied that he was aware of the treachery that he had intended, and that
he should be flogged, and tortured by having hot fat poured on him, if he refused to confess
his evil intentions.  The Jew, finding there was no escape, acknowledged that he was worthy
of death, but entreated that the noble Captain would have pity on his white beard.

On this the Captain-Major ordered him to be unbound, and becomingly dressed.  The Jew then
informed the Admiral that when a lad he was living at Grenada, that on the capture of that
city by the Christians he had left Spain, and travelling through many lands, he had gone to
Mecca. Thence he had made his way to India, where he had taken service with Sabayo, who had
made him captain-major of his fleet; that to please his master he had undertaken to capture
the Portuguese ships.  He now repented of his design, and as a proof of his desire to obtain
the friendship of the Portuguese, he offered to deliver up all the fustas into their hands.

It was therefore arranged that the Jew should go in his own fusta, manned by Portuguese, and
that several boats should follow, with the crews well armed.  As soon as it was dark they pushed
off from the ships.  As they approached where the fustas lay, the people on board hailed to
know who was coming, when the Jew replied, "It is I.  I bring some relations with me."

On this the fusta and boats dashed on, the Captain-Major shouting his war-cry of Saint George,
while the crews, who had kept their matches concealed, shouting and firing their guns, threw
their powder-jars among the sleeping crews, who being thus alarmed, leaped into the sea, while
the fighting men, who were few in number, made but a faint resistance. They were all immediately
killed, while the fusta went about destroying the hapless wretches who were in the water. 
A number also who had taken refuge on the island were made prisoners, not one escaping.  The
boats and fusta, having thus finished the work, returned to the ships.  The Portuguese then
selected from among the captives twelve of the strongest-looking men, to work the pumps and
do other service, while the rest were killed in the presence of the fishermen, who accordingly
knew there would be none left to betray them.

The Captain-Major gave the fishermen permission to carry off the fustas; but this they declined
doing, taking only the sails and tackling for their own boats.

The Jew, seeing the punishment inflicted on the other prisoners, became dreadfully alarmed,
suspecting that he also would be put to death.  The Captain-Major, however, ordered him to
be taken below, and confined in a cabin.

The monsoon having just commenced, the pilots advised that the ships should proceed on their
voyage.  They accordingly made sail and steered westward, their great object accomplished,
across the Indian Ocean.  The wind was fair, and the sea, as before, calm; but sickness broke
out among the men, and many more died.  The first land made was near the city of Magadaxo.
The Captain-Major having had ample experience of the Moorish rulers of these coasts, bombarded
it as he sailed by.  He then proceeded, without stopping, until he came off another city called
Pate, from which eight large zambuks came out to attack him.  A few broadsides drove them away,
and he sailed on until he reached Melinda.

Owing to calms, the voyage lasted nearly four months during which, from the want of fresh provisions,
scurvy, scarcely before known, attacked the crews.  Ulcers broke out on their arms and legs,
and their gums became swollen and rotten, so that thirty men died, and others could hardly
move about.  Some of the pilots also mutinied, and wanted to put back to Calecut; but Vasco
da Gama had them placed in irons, and undertook the guidance of the ships himself.

On the shore near Melinda they found the King waiting to receive them, and standing in the
water.  The Captains leaping out of their boats, he embraced them and conducted them to his
palace, where he treated them right courteously.  He wrote a letter on gold leaf to the King
of Portugal, calling him his brother and promising to befriend his people.

Vasco da Gama, pleased with the conduct of the native pilots, begged that two of them might
be permitted to accompany him to Portugal, at which the King expressed his pleasure.  To reward
the pilots, the Captain-Major presented them with two hundred cruzados in gold, to be given
to their wives.

Several more men here died, and were buried on shore, so that the crews of the two ships were
reduced to a very small number.  Before they took their departure, the King sent a magnificent
present to the King and Queen of Portugal.  Among other articles was a broad gold neck-chain,
with precious stones and pearls, worth ten thousand cruzados; a chest richly inlaid with silver
and ivory, full of white stuffs, silks and gold thread, and a piece of ambergris set with silver,
half an ell long, and as thick as a man's wrist.

Vasco da Gama, in order to sustain the honour of the King of Portugal, presented numerous valuable
articles in return.  After taking an affectionate farewell of the King of Melinda, the native
pilots being received on board and Mass having been said, the Captain-Major ordered the anchors
to be weighed, and on the feast of San Sebastian, 1499, the ships sailed from Melinda.  They
first stood out from the land, and then made a course along it to the southward.  They sighted
Mozambique, but did not put in there, and continued their course until off Sofala, where they
encountered several severe squalls.  They escaped danger by furling all the sails, warned in
time by the native pilots.  Sometimes they were exposed to heavy seas with little or no wind,
which greatly tried the ships.

At length they came off the Cape of Good Hope, in sight of which they passed without accident.
Pressing on all sail, they stood into the Atlantic, when, seeing the Cape astern and that they
were steering towards Portugal, the seamen in their great joy embraced each other, and then,
kneeling down, offered up their praises and thanksgivings to Heaven for having thus far preserved
them.

In order to make the shortest possible course for Portugal they kept away from the land, but
as they approached the equator they suffered much delay from calms.  Paulo da Gama was also
taken very ill, and kept to his bed, when Vasco went on board his ship that he might be with
him leaving Coelho in charge of his own.

Seeing that they were approaching Portugal, the pilots who had mutinied became very uneasy,
until Vasco da Gama told them that they were forgiven, but that he should take them bound into
the presence of the King.  Even the stoutest hearted, however, might have doubted whether they
should ever reach the land, for the ships were so leaky that it was necessary to keep the pumps
constantly at work.  Frequent calms were also met with, and they passed through a vast mass
of seaweed, to which the name of Sargarco was given, from its resembling the leaf of the grape
so-called.  That part of the ocean has ever since retained the name of the Sargarco Sea.  It
is that vast collection of seaweed thrown off by the Gulf Stream, and prevented from drifting
farther south by the counter-current which sets westward towards Central America.

At length, to the great joy of the pilots, they caught sight of the north star, almost on the
same altitude as it was seen at Portugal. They thus knew that they were approaching the termination
of their voyage.  Steering north, they came to an anchor in the port of Angra, in the island
of Terceira, towards the end of August.  So battered were the ships that it was with difficulty
they could be kept afloat.  Of the two crews not sixty men survived.  Many of these also died
on reaching the shore, and among them, to the great grief of his brother, was Paulo da Gama,
who survived but one day, and was buried in the Monastery of Saint Francis.

The authorities wished to discharge the cargoes and place them on board other ships, but to
this Vasco da Gama would not consent; and having them partially repaired, he again sailed,
accompanied by several other vessels, and arrived safely in the Tagus on the 18th of September,
1499. Endeavouring to overcome the grief he felt for the loss of his brother, handsomely dressed,
his beard, not cut since he sailed, streaming over his breast, he landed to present himself
to the King, who had come down to the beach at Cascaes to welcome him.  The next day the King
received him at his palace, when he bestowed upon him the honourable title of "dom," to be
borne by him and his heirs.  They afterwards repaired to the Queen's apartments, where Nicolas
Coelho, who had charge of the presents, was summoned, and where, having kissed the hands of
the King and Queen, they exhibited the magnificent jewels and stuffs which they had brought.

Although the King promised to reward honest Coelho, it does not appear how this was done. 
The pilots, having been brought in chains before the King, as Vasco da Gama had sworn to do,
they were pardoned.  The old Jew, the Moorish pilots, and the prisoners taken in the fustas
were landed, and either from the instructions they received from the priests on board or afterwards,
all became Christians, the old Jew taking the name of Gaspar da Gama, the Captain-Major standing
as his godfather. The King also had frequent conversations with him, and so pleased was his
Majesty with what he heard that he made him many presents from his own wardrobe and horses
from his stables, and gave him the slaves who had been brought from India.  After this he was
always known as Gaspar of the Indies.

The crews were handsomely paid, and each man received a portion of the cargoes to bestow in
gifts on their families and friends, while the heirs of the deceased also received the wages
which were their due. This memorable voyage lasted, from the day Dom Vasco left Lisbon to that
of his return, exactly thirty-two months, and of the one hundred and fifty men who left Portugal
only fifty-five came back.

This voyage may be considered one of the most notable on record.  The dreaded Cape of Storms,
henceforth to be known as the Cape of Good Hope, had been doubled, a large portion of the east
coast of Africa hitherto unknown had been visited, the Indian Ocean, which no European keel
had ever before ploughed, had been traversed, and India, the great object of the voyage, had
been reached, all the difficulties and dangers to which the explorers were exposed being manfully
overcome.  More remarkable still had been the return voyage in battered ships, the scanty crews
suffering from sickness, yet their brave leaders, with indomitable perseverance and hardihood,
keeping on their course week after week and month after month over the ocean, guided by the
stars and the imperfect instruments they possessed.

Twice after this Vasco da Gama sailed for India.  His second voyage was commenced in 1502,
when he visited many places he had before discovered, and returned the next year with twelve
richly-laden ships.  Meantime the Portuguese had sent out, year after year, numerous fleets
with large bodies of men, who, by force or stratagem, took possession of many places along
the eastern coast of Africa, and on the west of that of Hindostan.  Among the most important
were Goa and Cochym and others on the coast of Ceylon.  While penetrating eastward their ships
reached the Indian Archipelazo and the far-off shores of China.

In 1505 Dom Francisco de Almeyda was sent out to India under the title of Viceroy, in command
of twenty-two ships, and in them fifteen hundred men, when he began the erection of those forts
by means of which the Portuguese ultimately established themselves in the country.

The following year Alfonso da Alburquerque and Tristan da Conha sailed with thirteen ships
and thirteen hundred men.  On their passage the latter, parting company off the Cape of Good
Hope, ran far away to the south, where he discovered the islands which still bear his name--
Tristan da Conha.  He afterwards, with part of his fleet, cruised along the Arabian shores,
while Alburquerque was employed in trading, building forts, and establishing factories on the
coasts already discovered.

Other commanders followed, and Fernando Perez da Andrade, sailing east, passed through the
Straits of Malacca, until he reached Canton, then the most celebrated sea-port on the southern
coast of China.  Thence he sent an ambassador to the Emperor of China, to settle trade and
commerce.  At first things went well; but when the next Portuguese squadron arrived, the people
on board behaved so outrageously to the Chinese that their envoy was murdered, and they were
driven out of the country.  Some years afterwards the Portuguese obtained leave to settle in
a little island opposite to Canton.  It was called Macao, and they have ever since held it,
though subject to the Emperor of China.

In 1520 Jago Lopez da Sequeiro sailed for the Red Sea, with a fleet of twenty-four ships. 
Coming to the island of Mazua, he found it forsaken by the inhabitants, who had fled over to
Arquico, a port belonging to the Emperor of Ethiopia, the far-famed Prester John, whose country
was now first discovered by sea.  At this time it was a vast monarchy, and extended along the
shores of the Red Sea above one hundred and twenty leagues.

In following years the Portuguese made some progress into the country, five hundred of them
being sent under the command of Don Christofero da Gama, to assist the Emperor against his
rebellious subjects and his enemies the Turks.

The Moluccas, five in number, named Tirnate, Tidore, Mousel, Machien, and Bacham, were discovered
by Antonio da Abreu.

In 1521 Antonio da Brito was sent from Malacca to take possession of them.  The Portuguese
were, however, ultimately driven out by the Dutch, who hold them to the present day.  In the
year 1524 Dom Vasco da Gama was again sent out as Viceroy of India, being the second person
who had held that important post.  He now possessed the title of Conde da Vidigueira and Admiral
of the Indian Seas.  He was accompanied by his two sons, Dom Estevan and Dom Paulo da Gama,
on board the Saint Catarina, with numerous officials, and everything calculated to maintain
his state, besides a guard of two hundred men with gilt pikes, clothed with his livery.  He
kept also a magnificent table, at which all his officers dined with him.  He ruled the country
with a stern and inflexible justice, which was much required, as abuses of all kinds had sprung
up; and so, although he was much feared, he was greatly respected.  Leaving Goa, he went to
Cochin, a city of considerable size, where many Portuguese had established themselves.  Here
he was shortly afterwards seized with a mortal malady, of which he died a few minutes past
midnight on the 24th of December, 1524, when he was succeeded in his vice-royalty by his son,
Dom Estevan.

His remains were sent to Portugal in 1538, and buried in a tomb at Vidigueira, from which town
he took his title.  It would have been fortunate for the honour of Portugal had all her Viceroys
of India possessed the same sense of duty as that which animated the renowned Vasco da Gama.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

VOYAGE OF FERNANDO MAGALHAENS--THE DISCOVERER OF THE STRAITS OF MAGELLAN--ROUND THE WORLD A.D.
1519-20.

Rivalry between the crowns of Castile and Portugal--Magalhaens, a Portuguese, offers his services
to the Emperor Charles the Fifth of Spain, to find a passage through America into the Pacific--Associated
with Ruy Falero--Offer accepted--The squadron, consisting of the Trinidad and four other ships,
leaves Seville the 10th of August, 1519--Long detained by calms--Enters harbour in the Brazils--Proceeds
farther south--Winter season--Enters Port Saint Julien--Visited by a gigantic native dressed
in skins--Terror at seeing himself in a mirror-- Brings off a guanaco--Two natives captured--Attempt
to take two more defeated--Natives called Patagons--Possession of the country taken for the
crown of Spain--Mutiny discovered--Ringleaders executed--One of the squadron wrecked--Squadron
sails south--Entrance to the straits discovered--Ships advance through them--The crews, alarmed,
desire to return--Two ships missing--Smoke seen--Land to south called Tierra del Fuego--One
of the ships deserts--Cape Deseado reached--The Pacific appears--Squadron steers north-west--Two
small islands seen--Fearful sufferings from hunger--The crews attacked by scurvy--The Ladrones
reached, so-called from thievish natives--Some natives killed--Island of Good Signs--Arrive
at the Philippines--Natives friendly--Anchor off the Island of Mazaqua--The Rajah Colamba--The
Admiral plants a banner with a cross, and invites the natives to worship it--Two officers dine
with the Rajah, who gets tipsy--The ships sail--The Rajah accompanies them--Reach Zebut--Tribute
demanded by the Rajah--Refused--How Magalhaens converted the Rajah and all his people to the
Romish faith.

Jealous rivalry for some time existed between the crowns of Castile and Portugal, to obtain
possession of the rich countries lately discovered by their subjects in the Eastern seas and
Pacific.  The Pope, who claimed to be the Lord Paramount of the whole world, had munificently
bestowed all the lands in the east on the crown of Portugal, and those in the west on that
of Spain.  Yet these gifts rather increased than diminished the contention existing between
the two countries.  Each was ready to undertake any enterprise which might injure the other.

Fernando De Magalhaens.

Of this ill feeling several adventurers took advantage, and if their offers of service were
not accepted at one Court, they went over to the other to seek employment.  Among them was
Fernando Magalhaens, a Portuguese gentleman of good family, who had considerable experience
in nautical affairs, having performed a voyage to India and as far as the Straits of Malacca.
He was also formed by nature for command, possessing a courage in danger which nothing could
appal, at the same time a calm and amiable temper, which won the regard of all those with whom
he was brought in contact.  His personal appearance, notwithstanding, was rather mean, as he
was short in stature, and was lame from a wound which he had received in battle with the Moors.
He had, however, a quick and ready mind, and never wanting in self-possession, was very fertile
in expedients.  The pride of the Spanish officers, and the national jealousy they felt, made
them, however, murmur sometimes against his authority.  He had eloquence to support his views,
and indomitable perseverance to carry them out.

After serving in India under the famous Albuquerque, he offered his services to Portugal to
lead an expedition to the west; but on meeting with a rebuff, he went to Spain.  Here he formed
the acquaintance of a talented astronomer, Ruy Falero, and soon afterwards they together proceeded
to Cardinal Ximenez, to propose leading an expedition westward from the Atlantic into the newly-discovered
South Sea.  Their proposals being favourably listened to by the Emperor Charles the Fifth,
were accepted, and they were furnished by his orders with five ships, manned by two hundred
and thirty-four men, having provisions for two years.  To the adventurers was granted a twentieth
part of the clear profit, and the governorship of any islands they might discover was to be
vested in them and their heirs, who were to bear the title of Adelantado.

The squadron, which was fitted out at Seville, consisted of the Trinidad, the Admiral's ship,
of which Estevan Gomez, a Portuguese, went as pilot; the Saint Vitoria, commanded by Don Luis
de Mendoza; the Saint Antonio, Don Juan de Carthagena; the Santiago, Don Juan Serrano; and
the Conception, Don Caspar de Quixada.

The Admiral Magalhaens depended chiefly on the naval skill of thirty of his Portuguese countrymen
whom he took with him, as he did likewise on that of Serrano, who had served for many years
in India, and for some time at the Moluccas, which islands they hoped to reach from the eastward,
instead of their being approached, as before, from the west.

The ships being ready, the squadron set sail on the 10th of August, 1519, and steering south,
they arrived on the 3rd of October off the Cape de Verde Islands.  Getting into the region
of calms, they were detained for the long space of seventy days without making any progress;
but at last a breeze springing up, they got to the south of the line, then steered a course
which brought them about twenty degrees south in sight of the coast of Brazil.  Putting into
harbour, they obtained an abundant supply of fruits, sugar-canes, and animals of various kinds,
differing greatly in appearance from those of Europe.  Proceeding about two and a half leagues
farther south, they again came to an anchor, at the mouth of a large fresh water river, probably
that of the Rio de la Plata, as no other of the size mentioned exists in the south of the continent.

Here, soon after they arrived, a number of persons of wild and furious aspect and prodigious
stature, making strange noises, rather resembling the bellowing of bulls than the voices of
human beings, came down to the beach.  Notwithstanding their enormous size, these people when
they ran were so nimble, that none of the Spaniards or Portuguese could overtake them.

They had not, however, much intercourse with these savages; they here, however, obtained some
pearls from oyster-shells which they fished up. Proceeding south, they in a short time came
off two islands, so thickly covered with seals and penguins that they might easily, in the
course of a few hours, have laden all their ships with them.  Fish appeared to be their only food.

Continuing south until they reached latitude 49 degrees 30 minutes, the weather becoming very
tempestuous, with a contrary wind, they put into harbour, hoping that the wind would soon change,
when they might continue their course.  In this, however, they were disappointed.  Day after
day went by, and the weather only grew worse and worse.  It was evidently the winter of that
region, though on the other side of the line it was summer.  This caused no small astonishment
to the crews. They went on shore, but finding no inhabitants, believed that they had arrived
at some desert region of the world.  The wind blew fearfully hard, with sleet and rain, and
being ill provided to meet the inclemency of the season, they preferred living on board.

One day they had landed for the sake of exercise, when, to their surprise, they saw a human
being approaching them.  His only garment was the skin of a beast roughly sewn together, covering
his whole body and limbs from head to foot.  In his hand he carried a stout bow, and his arrows,
instead of having iron heads, were tipped with sharp stones.  As he advanced he began singing
and dancing, and as he got nearer he stood for some time throwing dust upon his head.  The
Spaniards imitating him, he came close up to them without any signs of fear.  Being invited
to go on board the ships, he willingly stepped into a boat.  The Spanish chronicler declares
that so big was he, that the tallest of their number only reached up to his waist; but as no
persons of a stature so gigantic have been seen in the country since, this statement must be
doubted.  The Admiral welcomed him on board, and directed that meat and drink should be given
him, of which he willingly partook, and seemed to enjoy himself.  Various toys were shown him,
and among them was a mirror, in which, happening to see himself, he was so frightened that,
starting back, he capsized two of the crew, and did not easily recover his composure.

His dress, which was composed of several skins, was wrapped round his body from his head to
his ankles.  On his feet he wore shoes or boots of the same material as his robe, so roughly
made as to be almost round, from which circumstance the Spaniards called him Patagon, or Big-footed,
a name they applied to all the people of that country.

He was so well treated that on returning on shore he induced several of his countrymen to visit
the ships, and one of them especially behaved with so much good humour, and was so completely
at his ease, that he won the regard of the voyagers.  To show his gratitude, he brought them
off an animal, from the skin of which, he let them understand, the robe he wore was composed.
He was probably a guanaco or llama, commonly known as the Peruvian sheep.  The Admiral, wishing
to make prisoners of some of these big fellows, gave orders to his crew to secure them.  Accordingly,
while the poor savages were being amused with toys put into their hands, which they grasped
eagerly, the Spaniards put iron shackles on the legs of two of them, persuading the men that
they were fine ornaments, like the rest of the things shown them.  They appeared highly pleased
with the jingling sound they produced when struck together, until they suddenly found themselves
hampered and betrayed, on which they began bellowing like bulls, and shouting to their god--Setebos--for
assistance.  From this Shakespeare has undoubtedly taken the name of the demon Setebos, introduced
in the play of the "Tempest."  This act of treachery was not calculated to raise the Spaniards
in the opinion of the natives.  One of the prisoners remained on board the Admiral's ship,
while his companion was carried to another for safe keeping.

In spite of this they did not object to the strangers coming among them, although they kept
their women out of the way.  They were all dressed like those who came on board, in the skins
of beasts, and their hair was short or tied up by a string.  They had apparently no fixed dwellings,
but lived in huts covered with skins and supported by poles, so that they could easily be moved.
They were not seen to cook their food, but ate meat raw, with a sweet root called capar, which
name they applied to the ship's biscuit offered them.

The only remedies they were seen to use when sick was bleeding and vomiting.  The former was
performed by giving a chop with an edge tool to the part afflicted, while the latter was produced
by thrusting an arrow down the throat of the patient.

The voyagers, ignorant and superstitious themselves, declared that they saw among the savages
on shore all sorts of strange creatures of horrible forms, such as horned demons, with long
shaggy hair, throwing out fire before and behind, which especially made their appearance when
the natives were dying.

The Captain had a great wish to secure some females as companions to the men, that a race of
giants might be introduced into Europe; but though the ladies were far from attractive, their
husbands exhibited great jealousy, and would not allow them to appear.  It was resolved, therefore,
to capture two of their principal men, that they might be exchanged for women.

After a time the natives, having overcome their fears, again mixed freely with their visitors.
On one occasion a number of Spaniards had gone on shore, when two natives came among them,
upon whom they threw themselves, nine Spaniards seizing one man, while a number of others brought
his companion to the ground.  Some of the Spaniards having ropes ready, had begun to bind the
hands of one of their captives, but he struggled so violently, at the same time shouting out
for assistance, that he managed to break loose from them, and, striking out right and left,
sent them flying in all directions; then bursting away, he took to flight, the other soon afterwards
following his example.  One of the Spaniards pursuing was shot by an arrow.  The rest fired
at the fugitives, but could not hit them, for instead of running along in a straight line,
they kept leaping from side to side at a rate equal to that of a horse at full gallop.

From the name of Patagons or Patagonians, which the natives have ever since borne, their country
was called Patagonia, and that of Saint Julien was given to the port in which the squadron
had sought refuge. The Admiral now took solemn possession of the country around for the crown
of Spain, erecting on the shore a cross, the sign of sovereignty. He was sorely troubled, however,
by discovering that a mutiny had been projected by many of the crew, headed by two of the principal
officers, Don Luis Mendoza and Don Juan de Carthagena, with others of inferior rank.  Should
he put to sea, he had reason to believe that they would run off with some of the ships.  He
therefore waited in port, hoping to reduce them to obedience.  Fortunately, the greater number
of officers and men remained faithful.  The Admiral, concealing the knowledge he had obtained
of their treachery, was able at length to seize the ringleaders.

This done, having summoned a council of his principal officers, the mutineers were tried and
condemned, Mendoza to death, and Carthagena, with others less guilty, to be left in the country
among the savages. No time was lost in carrying this stern decree into execution.  A stout
gallows was erected on the shore, on which, notwithstanding his rank, Don Luis was hung, while
Don Juan de Carthagena, a priest, and others, were landed and driven among the natives, to
endure whatever fate was in store for them.

Having re-established his authority, the Admiral sent the Saint Iago on an exploring cruise,
when she discovered a river, to which the name of Santa Cruz was given, it being the anniversary,
in the Romish calendar, of the finding of the holy cross.  The vessel having advanced about
three leagues farther, a storm coming on, she was wrecked; but her crew escaped to the shore,
and after enduring great hardships they got back to the harbour of Saint Julien, where they
rejoined their companions, and were distributed among the other ships.

The bad weather and the quelling of the mutiny kept the squadron at the port of Saint Julien
for five months.  At the end of this time the Admiral set sail, and the unfortunate Patagonians
who had been entrapped were carried off, the equally unfortunate Spaniards being left on shore.
Sailing southward, the explorers at length reached the latitude of 51 degrees 40 minutes, where,
finding a convenient port, and plenty of fuel, water, and fish, they remained two months longer.
Magalhaens carefully examined every inlet and bay as he proceeded, hoping to find a passage
through the continent into the South Sea, of the existence of which passage he was fully persuaded.
He was not aware how close he had been to it in the last harbour where he had taken refuge.

On reaching latitude 52 degrees, an opening appearing in the rocky mountainous-looking coast,
the squadron sailed into it, having on one side a cape, to which the Admiral gave the name
of Cabo de los Virgines, because it was discovered on the feast of Saint Ursula and the Eleven
Thousand Virgins.  At first many supposed that it was merely a deep bay or gulf, but as the
ships proceeded on, the hopes of the Admiral that he had at length discovered the long-sought-for
channel increased.  The wind being fair, onwards they sailed, though when night came down upon
them they were compelled to anchor.

At this juncture the pilot Estevan Gomez proposed, as it was doubtful whether they could get
through, and as their provisions were running short and their ships were unseaworthy, that
they should return to Spain.  The Admiral listened to all that was said in silence, and then
declared that rather than fail in fulfilling his promise to the King of Spain, he would endure
far greater hardships than they had yet suffered, and would eat the skins on the ship's yards
and rigging; and he forbade any one, on pain of death, to speak of turning back on account
of want of provisions, or their longing for home.

Anxiously they waited for the return of day, when the light would enable them to see their
way.  Having sailed on upwards of fifty leagues, a broad channel was seen opening out before
them.  Two ships were sent to explore it, while the Admiral and others came to an anchor. 
During their absence a violent storm arose, and great fears were entertained that the ships
were lost.  For two days the Admiral waited for their re-appearance, and, at length, a cloud
of smoke being seen rising to the southward, it was supposed that it was produced from fires
kindled by those of the ship wrecked crews who had escaped.

Now, more than ever, the people believed that the voyage had ended, and were giving way to
despair, when the two ships were seen approaching under full sail, with flags flying.  As they
drew near the crew shouted with joy and fired salutes from their guns.  The captains of the
exploring vessels reported that a passage had been seen ahead, but that they deemed it wise
to return and announce their discovery.  From the circumstance of the smoke rising in the south,
to the country on which it was seen was given the name of "Tierra del Fuego," or the Land of Fire.

On this the squadron again got under weigh and sailed forward; but another passage appearing,
opening out to the south-east, the two ships which had been before sent away were again dispatched
to ascertain in what direction it led.  One of them returned, but the crew of the other, instigated
by the traitor Estevan Gomez, finding themselves away from the Admiral, rose on their captain
and officers, and, confining them below, insisted on returning homewards.  In vain the Admiral
looked out, expecting her to rejoin him.  Day after day the rest of the squadron pressed on,
their gallant commander anticipating the realisation of his long-cherished hopes.  We may picture
him, as he stood on the forecastle of the Trinidada, leading the way, eagerly looking out ahead.
How anxious he must have felt when the channel narrowed, and it became possible that some rocky
barrier might impede his progress!  Then, as he saw it again stretching out into a broad, lake-like
expanse, how he must have rejoiced, while seamen in the chains on either side kept heaving
the lead and announcing the depth of water.  On and on the explorers pushed their way under
all sail.  If they saw the natives in their tiny canoes, darting out from behind some rocky
point, they were too eager to stop and communicate with them.

Above their heads rose the lofty snow-capped mountains, their outlines reflected in the calm
waters, often producing scenes of much grandeur, though the barren and rugged rocks offered
no temptation to the voyagers to land.

A hundred leagues had been passed over, and, unless the land should extend much farther west,
according to the theory held by the Admiral, the termination of the channel must be reached.
What must have been his joy, when about ten leagues more had been made good, on the 28th of
November, 1520, as rounding a point to which he gave the name of Cape Deseado, he saw the vast
expanse of the Pacific Ocean spreading out to the westward.  From the topmast-head not a speck
of land could be seen, to denote that there was the slightest impediment to his further progress
into the great South Sea.

He had now practically demonstrated that it was possible to sail to the east by way of the
west.  To the long-sought-for straits Magalhaens ultimately gave the appellation of the Straits
of the Patagonians; but it has more properly ever since been called after his name, corrupted
by the English into Magellan.

Having waited at the entrance of the straits for the missing ship till the time appointed for
her rejoining had passed, the three remaining vessels proceeded on their voyage.  The cold
being severe, the Admiral considered it desirable to steer towards the Line, and accordingly
shaped a north-westerly course.

On the 24th of January, 1521, a small island was discovered, to which the name of Saint Pablo
was given, in memory of the hapless Patagonian, who, after being baptised, had shortly before
died.  A few days afterwards another small island was sighted, and called Tiburones, or Shark's
Island.  In this manner he proceeded for three months and twenty days, having sighted only
the two small islands already mentioned.  The crew by this time had exhausted all their provisions,
including even their bread.  The fresh water had become so bad that it could be with difficulty
swallowed, while they at length had nothing left to eat but pieces of skin and bits of feather.
In order to enable them to chew these unsavoury morsels, they were first steeped in hot water
for some days, and then cooked with any fat or grease which remained.  Owing to the impure
and scanty means of subsistence many died, and those who remained became sickly, weak, and
low spirited.  The gums of many of them grew over their teeth on both sides, so that they were
unable to masticate the pieces of skin, and were thus miserably starved to death. The sea,
however, continued smooth and the wind fair, and they were blown gently along at a good rate.
In consequence of the calmness of the water, the Admiral gave the sea over which he was sailing
the name of the Pacific Ocean, which it has ever since retained, although considered by many,
from their different experience, very inappropriate, as at certain periods severe storms prevail
there, as in other parts of the world.

In a short time nineteen men had died, and thirty were so weak that they were unable to do
duty.  After sailing on all this time, they were anxiously looking out for islands where they
could obtain fresh provisions, but, except the two barren rocks they passed, none were seen.

The needles of their compasses varied so much, and moved so irregularly, that they were often
compelled to quicken them with a touch of the loadstone.

After crossing the equator and steering west, they at length arrived, on the 6th of March,
at a cluster of three fertile inhabited islands in thirteen or fourteen degrees north latitude,
just three months and twenty days from the time of leaving the Straits.

Here they anchored.  No sooner did the natives perceive them, than they came off in their canoes,
bringing cocoa-nuts, yams, and rice.  They were well-formed men, of an olive-brown colour,
their teeth stained black and red.  Some of them wore long beards, and the hair of their heads
hung down to their waists.  They were perfectly naked, their bodies anointed with cocoa-nut
oil, some of them wearing head-dresses made from the leaves of the palm-tree.  The women appeared
to have some idea of modesty, and wore coverings of cloth made from the bark of a tree.  Their
hair was black and thick, reaching almost to the ground. They appeared to be very industrious,
and were seen employed in making nets and mats from fibre.  Their houses were built of timber,
thatched with large leaves, and divided into several apartments, the beds in which were of
palm mats piled one above another.  Their only weapons were clubs and long poles tipped with
horn.  Their canoes were formed of planks sewn together with fibre, the stem and stern alike,
and were painted either black, white, or red.  The sails, which were balanced by outriggers,
were made of broad leaves sewn together, and the rudder was formed of a broad board at the
end of a pole.

When the Spaniards went on shore, the natives received them in a friendly way, but soon showed
that they were of an especially thievish disposition, pilfering everything on which they could
lay hands, either from those who landed, or when they themselves went on board the vessels.

From this circumstance Magalhaens bestowed on the islands the name of the Ladrones, or thieves.
The voyagers, indeed, found it impossible to enjoy any quiet, either while they were ashore
or on land, as the natives stood hovering about to pick up whatever they could find.

At length they stole one of the boats from the stern of the Admiral's ship, on which, to punish
them, he landed with a party of ninety men, and marching up the country, set fire to one of
their villages, which being built of wood thatched with leaves, burnt rapidly.  He also killed
some of the natives, who, when they were wounded, drew out the arrows, and gazed at them with
astonishment, as if they had never before seen such weapons.  When the Spaniards retired, after
their cruel exploit, the natives followed them in wellnigh a hundred canoes, as if disposed
to renew the traffic; but instead of doing so, as they got near, uttering shouts and shrieks,
they threw showers of stones on board the ships, and then took rapidly to flight.

Having refreshed themselves, and finding no advantage could be gained by a longer stay at the
Ladrones, the Spaniards set sail.  They touched at a beautiful uninhabited island, where they
found springs of clear water and abundance of fruit-trees, and to this the Admiral gave the
name of the Island of Good Signs.

While the ships lay at anchor, canoes from other islands, seen in the distance, came towards
them, bringing presents of fish, cocoa-nuts, cocoa-nut wine, and other provisions.  Though
nearly naked, they were remarkably well behaved, and wore ornaments of gold, and cotton head-dresses.
Their bodies were tatooed and perfumed with aromatic oils.  They used harpoons and fishing--nets,
and had swords, lances, clubs, and shields.

When the Spaniards went on shore they found that the island was cultivated, and that spices
were grown, of which they saw considerable stores.  The whole group was at first called the
Archipelago of Saint Lazarus, but it is now known as a portion of the Philippines.  The island
where the squadron anchored was called Humuna.  The wine, it was found, was the sap of a tree,
which was drawn out by cutting off a branch, into which a large reed was fixed, and by its
means the sap, of a light amber colour, with a tart taste, dropped out, when it was considered
at once fit for drinking.

The fruit, with which many of the voyagers now first became acquainted, was described as big
as a man's head, with two rinds, the outermost being green, two fingers thick, and full of
strings and shreds.  Within this was a shell of considerable thickness and very hard, the kernel
being white and of the thickness of a finger, with a pleasant taste like that of almonds. 
In the midst was a hollow full of pure limpid water, of a very cordial and refreshing nature.
When the natives wish to make oil of it, they leave the root to steep in water until it putrifies.
They then set it over a fire, and boil it until the oil rises to the surface.

Their visitors came from the island of Zulvan, where they produced cinnamon, spices, cloves,
nutmegs, ginger, and mace, which they brought off in their canoes.  They exhibited also numerous
articles made of gold.  They had earrings of gold, and had jewels fastened with pieces of gold
to their arms, besides which they possessed daggers, knives, and lances ornamented with the
same metal.  They were broad-shouldered, well-made men, of olive colour, their naked bodies
being well greased and anointed with oil.

On the 25th of March the squadron left Humuna, and steering between numerous islands, again
brought up off the island of Mazagua.  The Admiral having on board a slave, a native of Sumatra,
took him to act as interpreter in his intercourse with the chief or Rajah of the island.

Everything was done to impress the Rajah with the power of the Europeans, and the dignity of
the King their master.  The Rajah was a fine-looking man, with long hair, of an olive complexion,
and his body perfumed with sweet oil.  He had gold rings in his ears, three on every finger,
and on his head he wore a fine silk turban, while a piece of cotton, embroidered with silk
and gold, covered his body to the knees. At his side he carried a long dagger, with a gold
handle and a scabbard of fine carved wood.  He and his Court were constantly chewing the areca-nut.

In order to impress the Rajah Colambu, as the prince was called, with the power and superiority
of Europeans, the Admiral dressed up one of his sailors in complete armour, and directed three
others to cut at him with swords, and endeavour to pierce him with their poniards.  The Rajah,
on seeing that he was unharmed, was much astonished, and remarked that one warrior so protected
might contend with a hundred foes.

"Yes," replied the Admiral, through his interpreter, "and each of my three vessels has two
hundred armed in the same manner."

The natives appeared to have no religious rites, but only lifted up their faces, their hands
joined together, towards heaven when they called upon their god Abba.

Under the idea of inducing the natives to become Christians, the Admiral landed on Easter Day,
with a banner, on which was portrayed a cross, a crown of thorns, and nails.  He told all his
men to reverence it, and informed the Rajah that it should be set up on some high mountain,
not only as a memorial of the good treatment the Christians had received, but for his own security,
since if they devoutly prayed to it, they would be protected from lightning and thunder.  Some
of the Spaniards then received the communion, and after discharging their muskets, to the great
astonishment of the savages, returned to their ships.

The Rajah promised to do as the Admiral wished, knowing no better. After this a priest, the
chronicler of the voyage, and a companion, went on shore to partake of a feast which the Rajah
had prepared, and which was served in porcelain vessels.  His manner of eating and drinking
was to take alternately a mouthful of meat and a spoonful of wine, lifting up his hands to
heaven before he helped himself, when he suddenly extended his left fist in a way which made
the priest expect that he was going to receive a buffet in the face.  Among the luxuries on
the table were candles, composed of gums, rolled up in palm-leaves.  The Rajah, who had on
the previous day attended Mass and nominally professed himself a Christian, became so tipsy
that he was unable to attend to any of the duties of the state.

On his recovery he requested that the Admiral would allow his crews to assist in gathering
in his harvest, which friendly office they performed with much satisfaction.  This done, the
ships again sailed, accompanied by the Rajah in his big canoe; but she being unable to keep
up with the squadron, he and his people were taken on board, and after passing by several other
islands, the ships arrived on the 7th of April, about noon, at Zebut, the principal port of
the Philippine Islands.

In order to impress the Rajah of this place and his people--two thousand of whom, armed with
spears and shields, were collected at the water's edge gazing at a sight so novel to them--with
the greatness and power of the Spaniards, the ships were decked with banners and a salute fired
from all the great guns, which caused no small amount of consternation among the spectators.

To allay their fears, an envoy, accompanied by the slave from Sumatra, called Enrique, to act
as interpreter, was sent on shore, who informed the Rajah that it was the custom for Spaniards
to discharge their cannon whenever they came into great ports, and that it was done in respect
to him.  The envoy also expressed the high consideration in which the King of Spain, the greatest
monarch on the earth, and his Captain-General Magalhaens, held the Rajah of Zebut, adding that
the ships had come, on their way to the Moluccas, to obtain provisions and articles of merchandise.
The Rajah, in return, bade them welcome, but said that it was customary for all ships to pay
him tribute, and that he expected the like acknowledgment from them.

This the envoy positively refused, informing him that the Captain-General was the servant of
so great a king that he never had yet, nor ever would, make an acknowledgment of the sort to
any prince in the world, and that if he would not receive them peaceably, he would soon have
his hands full of war.

The Rajah, advised by a Moor who was at his Court, and by the Rajah Mazagua, the next day was
ready rather to pay tribute himself than excite the hostility of his visitors.  However, they
did not require tribute, and only wanted liberty to trade, which was cheerfully granted.

The next day the two Rajahs of Mazagua and Zebut came on board, when, after some conferences
had been held, the Admiral persuaded them to embrace the Christian faith.  This they forthwith
did, being baptised, together with several of the ladies of their families.

The Rajah of Zebut received the name of Carlos, after the Emperor, and his son that of Fernando.
The Rajah of Mazagua was called Juan, and a Moorish Christian received the name of Christopher.

Besides the princes and their Court, five hundred persons of inferior rank were also baptised;
so that Magalhaens congratulated himself on the wonderful success of his first attempt at converting
the heathen.  He then told them that, as they had become Christians, they must do away with
their idols; and all to be found being forthwith broken to pieces, crosses were erected in
their places.  As he had previously done, the Admiral urged them to pray before the crosses
devoutly, morning and evening.

The Queen, with forty of her ladies, and her daughter, the wife of the heir apparent, was also
baptised.  The latter was young and handsome, and wore a robe of white cloth, her head being
adorned with a tiara of date-leaves.

After the ceremony Mass was performed, which the Queen attended.  She was habited in a garment
like that of her daughter, and over her head and shoulders she wore a silken veil striped with
gold.  Three young girls walked before her, each carrying one of the royal hats.

Having bowed to the altar, the Queen seated herself on a cushion of embroidered silk, when
she and her attendants were sprinkled by the Admiral with rose-water,--a scent in which the
women of the country greatly delighted.

The Admiral obtained still further credit, and gained over more proselytes, by a cure which
he was said to have effected on the brother of the Rajah of Zebut.  The Prince complaining
of illness, the Admiral assured him that if he would be baptised and break all his idols, he
would to a certainty be cured, pledging his word for the result.  The rite was performed, the
Admiral taking care to administer certain medicines for the space of five days, at the end
of which time the prince acknowledged that he was perfectly well.

Thus, in less than fourteen days after the arrival of the squadron, the whole of the inhabitants
of Zebut and the neighbouring regions had been converted to the new faith adopted by the Rajah
and his nobles, with the exception of one village of idolaters, which still stoutly held out
against it.  To convert them more readily, the Admiral with a party of men attacked the village,
which they burnt to ashes, and then erected the cross on its ruins.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

VOYAGE OF MAGALHAENS, CONTINUED--A.D. 1521-2.

The Rajahs of Zebut and Mazagua pay tribute--Magalhaens attacks the Rajah of Matan--Sad death
of the Admiral--Treachery of the Rajah of Zebut--Massacre of Spanish officers--Don Juan Serrano
cowardly deserted--Ships sail away--Reach Bohol--The Conception burnt--Touch at Mindanao and
Cagayan Sooloo--Hear of Borneo--Sufferings from hunger-- Friendly reception at Puluan--Provisions
obtained--Arrak first met with--Cross to Borneo, and anchor off a large city--The Rajah treats
the Spaniards handsomely--Wealth of the Rajah--Customs of the people-- Carvalho deposed, and
Espinosa chosen Captain, with Sebastian del Cano under him--Reach Cimbuhon--Ships careened--Curious
birds and insects-- The Moluccas reached--Anchor at Tidor--Spices obtained--The Trinidad abandoned--The
Vittoria alone leaves the Moluccas--Portuguese vessels robbed--The Cape of Good Hope rounded--Dreadful
sufferings from hunger-- Many die--Put into harbour of Santiago in the Cape de Verdes--Portuguese
discover where they have been--Attempt to capture the ship--Del Cano, now Captain, escapes--The
Vittoria arrives in the harbour of Saint Lucar, 6th of September, 1522--Del Cano rewarded with
patent of nobility--The Vittoria afterwards lost--The name of Magalhaens or Magellan justly
given to the Straits he discovered.

So submissive had the Rajahs of Mazagua and Zebut become, that they now willingly paid tribute
to the Spaniards, supplying them abundantly with provisions, and treating them with the greatest
hospitality whenever they came on shore.  The satisfaction of the Admiral was still further
increased by hearing that the Moluccas, of which he had come in search, were to be found at
no great distance to the southward.

Not far from Zebut lies the island of Matan, the Rajah of which, though willing to pay every
courtesy to the strangers, declined to acknowledge the sovereignty of the Emperor, or to pay
him tribute.

This so incensed the Admiral, that he resolved forthwith to reduce the refractory Rajah to
obedience, notwithstanding that he was warned of the power of his foe, who possessed an army
of six or seven thousand men, and although naked like the rest of the inhabitants, were furnished
with bows, arrows, darts, and javelins.

Juan Serrano and other officers implored him not to go, but he persisted in his design, laughing
at the notion that naked savages could contend with Spaniards wearing coats of mail and helmets.
The Admiral set out with fifty of his men thus caparisoned, accompanied by his ally, the Rajah
of Zebut, whose services, however, he declined, bidding him wait in his boats to witness the
fight and the certain defeat of their foes. On reaching the shore, the Admiral landed, on the
27th of April, 1521, and at once, with his muskets and crossbows, attacked the enemy, who were
drawn up to receive him.  The natives were brave fellows, and though some fell, others came
on, soon learning to despise the slight effect produced by the bolts of the crossbows and the
shots from the ill-constructed firearms of their invaders.

Perceiving that the Spaniards' heads were cased in iron, but that the lower part of their bodies
were exposed, they took aim at their legs, and many were thus severely wounded.  The Admiral,
seeing a village near at hand, and fancying that by destroying it the enemy would be overawed,
sent a part of his men to burn it down.  This they did, but being set upon by an overwhelming
force, two were killed, while the rest were compelled to retreat.

In the meantime, another body of savages attacking the Admiral and his remaining followers--now
reduced to seven or eight men--he himself was wounded in the leg by an arrow, and he was repeatedly
struck on the head by stones.  Twice his helmet was knocked off, and his temple was wounded
by a lance thrust between the bars of his visor.  At length his sword-arm was disabled, and
he could no longer defend himself.  He called on his men to retreat, and, fighting round him,
they made their way to the shore, hoping to get on board the boats, which were still at some
distance.  In vain the boats rowed in to his rescue.  He was already in deep water, when, wounded
in the leg, he fell on his face. Recovering himself, he turned several times as if imploring
the assistance of his companions; but, terror-stricken, they were endeavouring to reach the
boats, and a crowd of savages rushing on, quickly dispatched him, and dragged off his dead
body.  The Rajah of Zebut coming up--for the fight had taken place some distance from the boats--rescued
the survivors.  Of the whole party who had landed, eight were killed with their leader, and
twenty-two were wounded.  The result of the battle had an effect very disastrous to the Spaniards
on the minds of their converts, whom they at first were inclined to look upon as superior beings,
but now learned to despise.

Thus ignominiously perished, on the very eve of success, the justly celebrated mariner, Fernando
de Magalhaens, ever to be remembered as the discoverer of the passage between the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans, and who, had he lived, would have been the first circumnavigator of the
globe.  He must not be judged by the present standard.  His religion was bigotry and gross
idolatry, and his last act, for which he paid the penalty of his life, was utterly unjustifiable.

Don Juan Serrano, having become leader of the expedition, in vain endeavoured to recover the
body of the Admiral by making the most tempting offers to the Rajah of Matan, who was, however,
too highly pleased with the trophy of victory he had obtained to restore it.  It was no wonder,
also, that the new religion at once fell into contempt among the recent converts, while the
Rajah of Zebut was anxious to make friends with his rival of Matan.

Instigated by the interpreter Enrique, the Rajah of Zebut formed a plan for treacherously destroying
the Spaniards, hoping thus to get possession of their ships and the rich cargoes they contained.

Concealing his designs under the guise of friendship, he invited all the officers, and as many
of the people as could come, to a banquet which he had prepared for them.

Fancying that they should receive a valuable present of jewels, which he had expressed an intention
of sending to the Emperor, they accepted the invitation.  A party of thirty-four accordingly
landed, but as they were proceeding to the Rajah's palace, two of their number, Juan Carvalho
and Sebastian del Cano, pilots, suspecting from certain signs that something was amiss, returned
to the boats and pulled back to the ships.

Scarcely had they got on board when fearful shrieks and shouts and clashing of arms were heard,
as if men were engaged in desperate fight, and they saw several of their companions come rushing
down towards the shore.

They immediately brought the broadsides of the ships to bear on the town, and began firing
their guns in the hopes of driving back the savages.  The fugitives were quickly overtaken.
Some were struck down; others were seized, among whom was Don Juan Serrano.  He was dragged,
bound hand and foot, to the water's edge.  He shouted to his countrymen to desist from firing
and to rescue him.  The natives told him that he should be delivered up if the Spaniards would
supply them with artillery and ammunition.  This they would have done, but the cunning savages
first wished to get the guns into their hands, hoping afterwards to obtain possession of the ships.

Carvalho and the remainder of the crews suspecting this, weighed their anchors ready to put
to sea.  Serrano, on observing what they were about, threw himself on his knees, entreating
them not to leave him in the hands of the treacherous savages.  Finding, on mustering their
forces, that only eighty men now remained, and fearing that should they continue longer they
themselves would lose their lives, they refused to listen to his entreaties, and loosing the
sails, they stood away from the shore, thus leaving to a cruel fate their talented captain,
the best seaman among them, who, had he been saved, would undoubtedly have proved of the greatest
advantage to the expedition.  What ultimately became of him was never known.  Many years afterwards,
it was reported that eight Spaniards had been sold as slaves by the Rajah of Zebut to the Chinese.
The two ships, now commanded by Carvalho, proceeded on their way to the Moluccas.  On reaching
the island of Bohol, as their numbers had been greatly reduced by sickness and the loss of
men at Matan and Zebut, they shifted the guns and stores of the Conception into the two other
ships, and then burned her.

Touching at the island of Mindanao, they met with a friendly reception from the Rajah.  It
was found to abound in rice, sugar, ginger, hogs, hens, and other animals.  They next touched
at Cagayan Sooloo, where from some of the natives they heard of the large island of Borneo
existing to the west.  The inhabitants appeared to possess much gold, and they used poisoned
arrows, which they darted by the force of their breath through hollow reeds.  At their sides
they wore daggers ornamented with precious stones.  Magnificent trees were seen on shore, but
no provisions, so greatly required, could be obtained.  In consequence of this, they were so
nearly starved that many of the men proposed landing on one of the islands and establishing
themselves there for life.

On reaching Puluan, however, and finding provisions abundant, they resolved to continue their
voyage.  Besides the articles they found at Mindanao, it produced large figs, sweet potatoes,
cocoa-nuts, and sugar-canes.

The Rajah, as a token of peace, drew some blood out of his left arm, and marked his body, face,
and the top of his tongue with it.  The Spaniards, to win his regard, imitated his example.
The people went perfectly naked, and occupied themselves chiefly in cock-fighting.

The voyagers here first met with arrak, which the natives distil from rice.  Having obtained
a pilot, the Spaniards crossed over to the large island of Borneo, and on the 8th of July they
came to an anchor off a city which was said to contain twenty-five thousand houses.  They were
built within high water mark, and raised on posts.  When the tide was full, the people communicated
by boats going about from house to house.

Soon after they dropped anchor, the Rajah, who was a Moor, of considerable power, sent handsome
presents on board, and invited the Captains to visit him.

On landing, the Spaniards found two elephants, covered with silk trappings, ready to conduct
them to his palace.  In front of it a feast had been prepared, consisting of meat, fowl, and
fish, placed on the floor, round which they sat on mats.  The natives, after each mouthful,
sipped arrak from porcelain cups, and used golden spoons to eat their rice.  The feast being
over, it was announced to the Captains that the Rajah was ready for them.  On their way they
passed through a large saloon, in which were a number of courtiers, and from thence into an
anteroom, where three hundred guards, armed with poniards, were drawn up.  At the farther end
of the apartment was a curtain of brocaded silk, and on this being pulled aside, the Rajah,
a stout man of about forty, was seen seated at a table, with a little child by his side, and
chewing betel, while behind him stood his female attendants, who were supposed to be the daughters
of the chief men and to govern his household.

As the courtiers--who were naked, with the exception of a piece of ornamented cloth round their
waists--approached, they raised their hands, clasped, three times over their heads; then, lifting
up their feet one after the other, they kissed their hands before speaking.  They wore numerous
rings on their fingers, and daggers with gold hilts set with gems.  The Rajah, as the gifts
of the Spaniards were presented to him, bowed slightly, and returned others of brocade and
cloth of gold and silver.  While in his presence the explorers observed the way in which suitors
made their petitions, none being allowed to address him personally.

The suitor, having arrived at an outer chamber, presented his petition to a courtier, who repeated
it to one of higher rank, and he again passed it on to a person of still greater importance,
who then whispered it through a hollow cane fixed in the wall, reaching the inner chamber,
into the ear of the chief officer of state, by whom it was conveyed to the Rajah himself.

The Captain heard that the Rajah possessed two pearls the size of hens' eggs, and that when
placed on a polished table they kept continually moving.

The ceremony of introduction being over, and permission to trade being granted, the curtain
was again drawn aside to allow of their exit, and the Captains retired.  So great was the confidence
established that they remained in the palace during the night.  Their sleeping-apartment was
lighted by two wax candles in silver candlesticks, and two large lamps, with four lights to
each, were kept burning all night, being attended by two men to trim them.

The people were skilful in the manufacture of porcelain, of which they exported large quantities.
Their vessels were also ingeniously formed; those belonging to the Rajah had their prows carved
and richly gilt. The country produced camphor, cinnamon, sugar-cane, ginger, oranges, lemons,
melons, and many other fruits, with abundance of beasts and birds.

Having regained their ships, notwithstanding the polite treatment they had received, under
the pretence that they were about to be attacked by some junks, the Spaniards seized several
in the harbour, which they knew were richly-laden, and kidnapped a number of wealthy persons
on board them.

Leaving Borneo, the two ships proceeded to the island of Cimbuhon.  On their way the crews
insisted on deposing the pilot, Cavalho, who had never been liked, and in his stead they chose
Espinosa as Captain-General, with Sebastian del Cano under him.

Finding a commodious port, with abundance of fresh water and fuel, they hove down their ships
and caulked them.  This occupied them forty days. To obtain suitable wood for repairs, they
had to search for it in the forests, and drag it with infinite labour from among the prickly
bushes, their feet suffering greatly, as their shoes had worn out.

It was here that the priest Pigafelta found what he fancied was an animated leaf.  He was watching
a tree resembling that of a mulberry, when several leaves fell off.  The moment they were touched
they sprang away.  He kept, he says, one of these animated leaves in a dish for eight days.
They were, in reality, not leaves, but insects, which, from their resembling leaves, are enabled
to escape the attacks of other creatures; indeed, they were the well-known leaf-insect of the
mantis species.

The island abounded with cassowaries, the East Indian ostrich, and wild hogs.  They also captured
a fish with a head resembling that of a hog, having two horns and something like a saddle on
its back.  After leaving this place, they encountered a tremendous storm, when, in their alarm,
they vowed to set free a slave, in honour of their three saints, Saint Elmo, Saint Nicolas,
and Saint Clare.

Anxiously they looked for the sign of the assistance they sought, when at length, to their
joy, they observed the desired lights flickering at their mast-heads, which continued shining
for two hours, when the storm abated.  They were thus convinced that Saint Elmo, the friend
to mariners, had come to their assistance, accompanied by the other two saints.

At the next island, Sarraugan, where they touched, they seized two natives, whom they compelled
to go as their pilots to the long-sought-for Moluccas.  The Portuguese had reported that the
sea was too shallow to be navigated, but on sounding they found it upwards of fifty fathoms.
They well knew, indeed, that their rivals had an object in describing it as dangerous.

At length, on the 8th of November, at sunrise, they entered the harbour of Tidore, one of the
Moluccas.  The Mohammedan ruler of the island, Almanzor, at once came on board to welcome them,
assuring them of his affection for his brother the King of Spain, and inviting them to establish
a factory on shore.

Here the spices they sought for were given in exchange for red cloth, drinking-glasses, knives,
and axes.  The houses, like those of Borneo, were built on piles, and fenced round with cane
hedges.  Provisions of all sorts were brought off to the ships, and water, which, though it
rushed out of the mountains very hot, became perfectly cool when exposed to the air.

The Rajah of the neighbouring island of Bachian sent a present to the King of Spain,--a couple
of birds about the size of turtle-doves, with small heads, long bills, and two long feathers
at their sides, their bodies being of a tawny colour.  The Moors told them that the birds never
fly, but are blown by the wind from heaven.  They were, indeed, the first specimens they had
seen of the now well-known birds of Paradise, of which there are numerous species.  The population
generally were heathens, the Moors having gained an ascendancy in the islands only forty years
before.

When about to sail, the Trinidad was found so leaky that she was left behind, and the Vittoria
proceeded alone on her voyage, with a crew of forty-seven Europeans, thirteen Indians, and
some pilots from the Moluccas.

In her progress her captain did not scruple to rob any Portuguese or native traders he met
with, taking whatever he wanted.  They touched at various islands, where they obtained sandal-wood,
ginger, and different sorts of fruit.

Passing to the north of Java, they ran through the channel between that island and Sumatra,
taking care to avoid the Straits of Malacca, on the north shore of which the Portuguese had
a settlement.  They now steered directly for the Cape of Good Hope.  As they approached Madagascar,
in consequence of the want of provisions, a mutiny broke out, some of the men wishing to put
into Mozambique to repair the ship and obtain food; but as it was known that the Portuguese
were there also, who would perhaps make them prisoners and take possession of their ship, the
captain, supported by most of the officers, refused to listen to their complaints, and steered
a course so as to round the Cape.  By this time twenty-one men of those who had left Tidore
had died.  They passed the Cape of Good Hope on the 6th of May, 1522.  They were now suffering
greatly both from sickness and starvation, and, after two months, at length sighting the Cape
de Verde Islands, when nature being unable longer to hold out, rather than risk death from
famine, they put into the harbour of Santiago, and threw themselves on the mercy of their rivals.
To their surprise, they found that although, according to their reckoning, it was Wednesday,
the 9th of July, it was in reality Thursday, the 10th, showing that they had lost a day.  This
was in consequence of their having sailed west with the sun.  Had they gone round in the opposite
direction, they would, in the same way, have gained a day.  The Spaniards had no difficulty
in obtaining provisions, and a supply of food was got on board.

The men had been strictly enjoined not to say where they came from, but one of them, who with
twelve more had gone ashore, offered some spices in exchange for food and drink, when it was
suspected that they had visited the Moluccas.  On this the Portuguese immediately seized them;
but, by some means, Sebastian del Cano, who was now captain, observing the preparations for
attacking his vessel, ordered the cable to be cut, and, all sail being made, he carried the
Vittoria out of the harbour in safety.

He now, with his diminished crew, continued his progress to the northward.  After a farther
voyage of nearly two months, the successful commander, who was to reap the chief benefits of
the voyage, brought the Vittoria safe into the harbour of Saint Lucar on the 6th of September,
1522; the whole circumnavigation having occupied nearly three years, during which fourteen
thousand six hundred leagues of sea had been traversed.  On the 8th he took the vessel up the
river to Seville.  The eighteen survivors of the crew of sixty who sailed from the Moluccas,
landing, walked barefooted in their shirts, carrying tapers in their hands, to offer thanks
for their safe return.

Sebastian del Cano, escaping the fate which befell so many Spanish navigators, was handsomely
received and rewarded, letters patent of nobility being bestowed upon him, with a globe for
a crest, having the motto, "Primus me circum dedisti"--"You first encompassed me."

The vessel herself, after becoming the theme of poets and historians, who declared that she
deserved a shrine of gold, was ignominiously lost on her passage from Saint Domingo.

Putting aside the conduct on many occasions of the explorers, we must give due praise to the
leader of the expedition who conducted it so nearly to a successful termination.  By it was
demonstrated without doubt the spherical form of the earth.  The passage from the Atlantic
to the Pacific was discovered, with numerous hitherto unknown islands, and the way thus opened
to the several voyagers who subsequently sailed forth to explore the wide expanse of the Pacific
Ocean.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

VOYAGE OF SIR FRANCIS DRAKE ROUND THE WORLD--A.D. 1577.

Drake introduced to Queen Elizabeth--Describes his birth, education, early voyages, adventures
with Hawkins, capture of treasure, and first sight of the South Sea--Exploit and death of Oxenham--Drake's
liberality--His plan unfolded--The Queen's sanction--A squadron of five vessels equipped--Sails
on 15th of November, 1577--Puts into Mogador-- visited by Moorish chiefs--A seaman carried
off by the Moors--Small prizes taken--Drake's generosity--Touches at the Cape de Verdes--The
inhabitants fly--Expedition on shore--No provisions to be obtained--A Portugal ship taken,
and the pilot, Nuno da Silva, detained--The Portugals liberated, and a pinnace given them--Captain
Doughty's misconduct--The coast of Brazil sighted--Native alarm fires seen--A tempest--The
Christopher separates--Squadron enters Rio de la Plata-- The Christopher returns--Sails along
the coast--Another storm--Caunter lost sight of--Approach of winter--The Admiral in danger--Rescued
by Captain Thomas of the Marigold--Lands--Natives fly--Their huts visited--Mode of catching
ostriches--The squadron collected--The Elizabeth broken up--Natives appear--Friendly intercourse--The
Christopher run on shore--The Mary recovered--Squadron anchors in Port Saint Julien.

One morning, in the early part of the year 1577, Queen Elizabeth was seated in the private
audience-chamber of her palace, attended by her ladies in waiting and two or three courtiers,
who stood round in graceful attitudes, eager to catch her words, and equally ready to make
suitable replies to the remarks of her Majesty, when a page entered and announced her Vice-Chamberlain,
Sir Christopher Hatton, attended by a sea captain--Master Francis Drake--whom he craved permission
to introduce.

"Admit them," said the Queen.  "I have long desired to hear from Captain Drake's own lips an
account of his adventures."

In a brief space of time the Vice-Chamberlain entered, followed by a person who in appearance
differed much from the gaily habited courtiers in attendance on her Majesty.  He was a man
apparently between thirty and forty years of age, with the air and carriage of a seaman.  His
figure, somewhat below the middle height, was exquisitely proportioned; his chest broad, and
his head round and well formed.  Though sunburnt, his complexion was naturally fair and sanguine,
his countenance open and cheerful, his hair of a brown colour, and his beard full and carefully
trimmed.  His large and lively eyes beamed with intelligence, and his mouth was firm set, while
his whole countenance showed a quick and resolute character.

Bowing low as he entered, he was introduced in due form.  He replied in a free and unembarrassed
manner to the questions the Queen put to him.

"I have been well informed, Captain Drake, of the good service you have rendered to the Earl
of Essex with your three frigates in subduing the rebellion in Ireland; but I desire to know
more of your earlier exploits in the West Indies, and I shall be pleased to be informed of
your birth and parentage."

Exhibiting due modesty in all he said, Captain Drake replied that he had been at sea from his
boyhood.  He was the eldest among twelve sons of Master Edward Drake, Vicar of Upnor, and was
born in the year 1544 in a cottage near Tavistock, on the banks of the Tavey.  From his earliest
days, having constantly seen the royal ships anchored in the Medway, his desire had been to
follow the sea; and to gratify his wishes, when he was of an age to leave home his father placed
him with the master of a bark, in which he used to trade along the shore, and sometimes to
carry merchandise into Zealand and France.  His master dying, left him his bark as a mark of
his good-will, and when but eighteen he became purser of a vessel frequenting the ports of
Biscay.  He shortly afterwards entered a ship commanded by Master John Hawkins, engaged in
the slave trade.  Having obtained a cargo partly by the sword and partly by other means at
Sierra Leone, they were conveyed across the Atlantic to the island of Hispaniola.

Having made a voyage or two with Master Hawkins, he obtained the command of the Judith, a bark
of fifty tons, one of a squadron under the same Admiral.

The ships having taken in their cargoes of slaves as usual, Master Hawkins sailed for the Canaries
and the Spanish Main, that he might exchange his freight for silver, sugar, and other commodities
most valued at home.  On passing the town of Rio de la Hacha, Master Hawkins stormed it, because
the Governor refused to trade with him.

"Such an act was not in accordance with our will," observed the Queen. "But go on, Master Drake."

"Reaching the Gulf of Mexico, the squadron was compelled to seek shelter in the port of San
Juan del Ulloa.  At first the Spaniards believed that we were part of a fleet they were expecting,
and were in great consternation when, coming on board, they discovered their mistake.  Our
commander assured them that our sole desire was to seek shelter from stress of weather, and
procure provisions and merchandise, for which he would pay, but he deemed it prudent to detain
two persons of consequence as hostages.  His proposals were accepted.  Near us lay twelve merchant
ships, laden with two hundred thousand pounds' worth of goods; but, though we might easily
have mastered them, the Admiral, knowing that it would displease your Majesty, refrained from
doing so.

"While waiting for the answer from the Viceroy of Mexico, the expected Spanish fleet arrived
with a cargo valued at one million eight hundred thousand pounds.  We were sorely tempted,
it must be confessed, to go out and attack them, and we knew that if they were admitted our
safety would be jeopardised, as the haven is confined and the town populous.

"At length the Viceroy agreed to the terms proposed by Master Hawkins, and we in a friendly
way exchanged visits with the officers of the newly arrived fleet.  Thus lulled into security,
we did not dream of the vile treachery the Spaniards were preparing, until we observed an unusual
bustle on board their vessels, and soldiers in great numbers gathering on shore.  Master Hawkins
was at dinner in his cabin on board the Minion, when a Spaniard, Villa Nueva by name,--but
an old villain he was by nature, your Majesty will allow,--attempted to plunge a dagger, which
he had concealed in his sleeve, into the Admiral's breast.  But Master Hawkins was too quick
for him, and, having him bound, sprang on deck, where he saw the Spaniards from their admiral's
ship, which lay close to the Minion, about to board her.

"On this, shouting `God and Saint George!  Upon those traitorous villains, and rescue the Minion!'
he and his men drove back the Spaniards and set their ship on fire.

"He then made sail and stood for the mouth of the harbour, though surrounded by foes.  I, on
board my little bark, the Judith, followed his example, firing at the treacherous Spaniards,
who in their ships and boats endeavoured to overwhelm us.  They succeeded too well with the
rest of the squadron, all of which were captured and their crews butchered.  This foul deed
was done, although we had in no way offended the Spaniards.  Your Majesty will doubtless see
that we have just cause to retaliate on those wretches for their unexampled treacherous cruelties
towards your Majesty's faithful subjects.

"On my arrival in England, feeling sure that I was acting justly, I fitted out two ships, the
Dragon and Swan, with which I sailed to the Spanish Main; and in the following year I again
went out in the Swan, more to obtain information of those seas than to make reprisals, although
I captured not a few goodly barks laden with merchandise.

"In 1572 I again sailed in command of the Pacha, of seventy tons, and the Swan, of twenty-five
tons, of which my brother John, who had taken to the sea, was captain.  Reaching the coast
of America, we were joined by another bark, belonging to the Isle of Wight; and now, having
obtained the friendship of a tribe of natives, the Cimarrones, we considered ourselves sufficiently
strong to attack the town of Nombre de Dios, where we expected to obtain a rich booty; but,
disappointed in this, led by one of our dark-skinned allies, we resolved to intercept the mules
bringing treasure from Panama to the aforesaid place.  We therefore left our squadron in the
Sound of Darien, and marched overland.  Though again at first disappointed, we at length fell
in with a train of fifty mules laden with gold and silver, of which we took possession.  It
was on this journey that the chief of the Cimarrones, taking me by the hand, led me to the
top of a high tree in which steps had been cut, and where twelve men might sit with ease. 
Thence I could see, at the same time, the Atlantic, from whence we came, and that Southern
Ocean so greatly desired, on the other hand; for on both sides, the trees having been cut down,
nothing impeded our view.  On this, John Oxenham swore that, unless I should beat him from
my company, he would, by God's grace, follow me.  As I was narrating to your Majesty, we secured
the gold and part of the silver; but, as we could not carry the remainder across the mountains,
it was concealed until an opportunity might occur for our removing it.  By a sad mishap, one
of our seamen fell into the hands of the Spaniards, and when I sent a party to recover the
treasure, it had been carried off; the poor fellow, as we found, having been put to the torture
to reveal its hiding-place.  On our march back we surprised and burnt Venta Cruz, and obtained
more booty, returning to our ships just in time to escape a large body of Spaniards, who had
been assembled to attack us.

"We safely reached Plymouth on Sunday the 9th of August, 1573, when the people in the church,
hearing of our arrival, rushed out to welcome us, leaving few to hear the preacher finish his
discourse.

"Though not relating to myself, I must tell your Majesty how my faithful friend John Oxenham
sailed away forthwith, accompanied by carpenters and other artificers, determined to do that
which never man had before enterprised.  Crossing the Isthmus of Darien, he built a pinnace,
in which he embarked on the South Sea.  Having taken two prizes, he was returning with his
booty across the isthmus to his ship, when he was assailed by overwhelming numbers of the Spaniards
and made prisoner.  Of his sad fate I have gained tidings.  He was carried to Lima, and there,
according to the vile custom of those foes of the human race, cruelly tortured and put to death.
It makes the heart of a man burn within him to avenge such treatment of your Majesty's subjects."

The Queen did not reply, but she had no desire to check the ardour of the brave captain.

"Master Drake has not mentioned to your Majesty a circumstance of which I have been told,"
observed Sir Christopher Hatton.  "Before coming away, he presented his cutlass to the chief
of the Cimarrones, who had shown a great longing for it; and when in exchange the cacique gave
him four large wedges of gold, Master Drake, declining to appropriate them, threw them into
the common stock, observing he thought it just that such as bore the charge of so uncertain
a voyage on his credit, should share the utmost advantage that the voyage produced; and good
fortune deservedly attended him to the end of his enterprise."

"On what matter have you desired this interview, Captain Drake?" asked the Queen.

"It is one which, for obvious reasons, Master Drake desires should not be made public," observed
Sir Christopher Hatton.

On this her Majesty signed to her courtiers to retire out of earshot, and then ordered Drake
to speak.  He accordingly, craving her Majesty's sanction, and pointing out its importance,
and the gold and advantage which her kingdom might derive from its prosperous issue, unfolded
his design.  His ambition was, he said, to conduct a fleet of stout ships, well armed, through
the straits which the Portuguese Magalhaens had discovered more than half a century before,
into that Pacific Ocean which he had navigated from east to west, and on which John Oxenham's
bark had floated, and he himself had besought Almighty God that he too might sail in an English
ship.  He spoke not at the time of attacking the Spaniards wherever he should meet them, and
depriving them of the wealth they had procured by the death of the thousands of helpless Indians
they had enslaved, knowing that her Majesty, since she was at peace with Spain, could not openly
approve of such a proceeding.

What more was said need not be repeated; but as he took his parting farewell of the Queen,
her Majesty presented him with a sword, saying, "We do account that he which striketh at thee,
Drake, striketh at us."

With this verbal warrant, the brave Captain lost no time in making energetic preparations for
his projected voyage.  He found no lack of followers eager to share his fortunes; but, according
to the best of his judgment, he chose men of experience and tried bravery, on whom he could
depend.  He gave out that the squadron was intended for a trading voyage to Alexandria, though
neither his officers nor the ever-watchful Spaniards were deceived by those pretexts.

Five ships were procured, and, being rapidly fitted out, were supplied with all necessary stores
and munitions.  Drake himself superintended everything, down to the minutest point, so that
nothing required might be wanting.  It was to this, as well as to the interest he took in his
men, and to his superior seamanship and enterprise, that much of his success was owing.

His squadron consisted of five vessels,--the Pelican, of a hundred tons burden, in which he
himself sailed; the second being the Elizabeth, vice-admiral, burden eighty tons, Captain John
Winter; the third the Marigold, a bark of thirty tons, Captain John Thomas; the fourth the
Swan, a fly-boat of fifty tons, Captain John Chester; the fifth the Christopher, a pinnace
of fifteen tons, Captain Thomas Moon. These ships were manned with a hundred and sixty-four
able seamen, officers, and others, and among other things carried were several pinnaces, ready
framed in pieces, to be set up in smooth water as might be required.  He had a band of musicians,
his cabins were richly furnished, and the services for the table, and many utensils even belonging
to the cook room, were of silver.  All things being ready, the Admiral and his officers went
on board, and set sail from Plymouth Sound at five o'clock in the afternoon of the 15th of
November, 1577.

When off the Lizard, meeting with a heavy south-westerly gale, they were driven back, the Pelican
and Marigold having to cut away their mainmasts, to Falmouth, where they remained until the
13th of the next month, when, all their damages being repaired, they once more put to sea.

All on board were eager to know their destination.  When out of sight of land, the Admiral,
should the ships be separated, appointed Mogador as a rendezvous, and it was thus guessed that
they were not bound up the Straits of Gibraltar.

Sighting the Barbary coast on the 25th of December, the squadron entered the harbour of Mogador,
in the dominions of the King of Fez, on the 27th.  While some of the people were employed in
setting up a pinnace, several natives appeared, among whom were two Moorish chiefs, requesting
to be taken on board to the Admiral.  A boat was accordingly dispatched, and the two Moors
were brought off, an Englishman being left as a hostage.  The Moors were courteously entertained.
When wine was presented to them, they declined drinking it in public, but had no objection
to swallow a good quantity when they could do so unobserved.

On their return the hostage was restored.  The next day some men and camels came down to the
beach, apparently wishing to trade, as they exhibited various commodities.  On this a boat
from one of the ships, unknown to the Admiral, was sent to meet them, when one of the men in
her, John Fry by name, wishing to become a hostage, that he might hear them speak and observe
their manners, leapt hurriedly on shore, and ran on some way from the boat.  Before he was
aware of his danger, he was seized by the Moors, who, lifting him up on one of the camels,
set off with him at a rapid rate.  As the rest of the crew were about to land, a large number
of the natives sprang out from behind the rocks, and compelled the English seamen to retreat.
It was afterwards found that the man had been carried off by the orders of the King of Fez,
who wished to gain information regarding an expected invasion of his territory by the Portuguese.

Drake, on hearing what had occurred, landed a party of men and marched some distance into the
interior, but the Moors kept out of his way, so that he was compelled to return without gaining
information; and, supposing that Fry was lost, he ordered the squadron to put to sea.  Fry
meanwhile was kindly treated by the King of Fez, who, finding that no information could be
got from him, sent him back to the coast, where, to his grief, he found that the fleet had
sailed.  He, however, before long got home in an English merchant vessel.

Running down the African coast, they took three Spanish fishing-boats called caunters, and
shortly afterwards two caravels, when at length they caught sight of the Southern Cross.  Passing
Cape Barbas, they sighted a Spanish ship at anchor.  She was captured with only two people
on board, the rest having fled on shore.  In a harbour, three leagues within the cape, the
ships brought up, and there remained several days, obtaining fresh water and provisions, as
well as all sorts of fish in abundance.

The people here appeared to be suffering from famine, and a wretched woman, with a babe in
her arms, was brought down to the beach to be sold as a slave; but Drake indignantly refused
to purchase her, saying that he did not trade in human beings.  Other people brought leather
bags to buy water.  Drake gave them water, but declined receiving payment in return.  Having
refitted the ships and discharged all the Spanish prizes, except one caunter, in exchange for
which the Christopher was given to the owner, and one caravel, the squadron proceeded to the
Cape de Verde Islands, and put into the harbour of Saint Mary's.  Here, when the inhabitants,
who were subjects of the King of Portugal, saw them coming on shore, they fled to the mountains,
and no provisions or fresh water could be purchased.

A party, under Captain Winter and Mr Thomas Doughty, was sent on shore to try and obtain what
was required.  They saw large herds of goats; wild hens, and salt which had been gathered in
great quantities from the rocks.  The country was fertile, covered with trees and vines, bearing
delicious grapes, with which the seamen refreshed themselves.  There were many other fruit-trees,
some bearing plantains, a pleasant and wholesome fruit, others figs, with ripe fruit on them.
Sailing from Saint Mary's on the 30th of January, they the next day passed the island of Saint
Jago, beyond which lies the burning island called by the Portuguese Fogo.  To the south-west
of this island they took a Portugal ship laden with wine, linen and woollen cloths, and other
necessaries, bound for the Brazils, and having many gentlemen and merchants on board her. 
The command of this prize was given to Thomas Doughty, who was an old friend of Drake's, and
much trusted by him.

The ships passed by several towns, the people in which fired off their great guns to signify
that they were prepared for an assault.  The pilot of the Portuguese ship, Nuna da Silva, being
found to be an expert mariner, well acquainted with the coast of Brazil, was taken on board
the admiral.

Passing Fogo, the squadron brought to off the fertile island of Brava. Here the only inhabitant
to be found was a monk, who had built himself a rude dwelling; but on seeing the English landing,
he fled, leaving behind him the relics of his false worship--a cross with a crucifix, an altar
with its superior altar, and idols of wood of rude workmanship.

Here the Portugals taken near Saint Jago were dismissed; the Christopher, pinnace, being given
them in exchange for their own ship, and wine, bread, and fish for their provision, excepting
Nuna da Silva, who, when he heard that the fleet was bound for the South Sea, willingly remained
with Drake.

Only a small supply of water being taken on board, the fleet sailed from Brava on the 2nd of
February, steering a course for the Straits of Magellan.  Passing the equator on the 17th,
they sailed for sixty-three days out of sight of land.

Drake was not without his troubles: it having been found that Captain Doughty had appropriated
to his own use certain presents made by the prisoners, he was superseded by Thomas Drake, the
Admiral's brother. This disgrace appears to have rankled in Mr Doughty's heart, and caused
him to feel a bitter animosity against his former friend and commander. During this long passage
the squadron sometimes met with adverse winds and violent storms, when lightnings flashed and
terrific claps of thunder rattled above their heads; at others they were long becalmed, suffering
from the effects of the sweltering heat of the torrid zone. They were depressed, and would
have suffered greatly from the want of water, had they not been able to supply themselves,
both before and after crossing the Line, by means of the heavy showers which every day fell,
the water being collected in sails and sheets.

When in the tropics they saw, for the first time, shoals of flying-fish of the size of pilchards,
chased by bonitos and dolphins, or "dorados," as the Spaniards called them.  Also, as they
watched the flying-fish trying to escape from their foes in the water, they observed huge birds
pounce down and seize the helpless fugitives.  Cuttle-fish likewise--strange, black creatures--leapt
on board the ships in considerable numbers.  These and other novel sights did not fail to interest
them.  On the 5th of April they sighted the coast of Brazil, where the land was low, and, sounding,
they found only twelve fathoms three leagues off the shore.  Huge fires were observed, kindled
by the inhabitants.  The Portuguese had before this landed on the coast, and reduced the natives
to a miserable stage of bondage, compelling them by their cruelty to fly from the fertile parts
of the country into the more unfruitful districts.

Drake wished to go on shore, but, finding no harbour, the squadron coasted along until the
7th of April, when a terrible storm of wind from the southward rose, during which the Christopher
was separated from the rest of the fleet.  She was the caunter taken at Blanco, on which the
name of Christopher was bestowed when the vessel originally so-called was given to the prisoners.
After the squall, which lasted only three hours, the squadron continued beating to the southward,
until they got off the Rio de la Plata, up which they ran until they came to an anchor under
Cape Joy.  Drake so-called it from the satisfaction he felt at seeing the Christopher come
in two days after they had anchored, he having thoughtfully appointed it as a rendezvous, should
any of the vessels be separated.

Among the principal of his subordinate objects was to keep the fleet together, to obtain good
drinking-water and fresh provisions as often as possible.  They found the climate delicious,
and saw a number of large deer.  Considerably higher up the river they anchored near some rocks,
where they killed a large number of seals, or sea-wolves, as the Spaniards called them.  They
found their flesh wholesome and pleasant, and salted a number for their further use.

Having spent a fortnight in the River Plate, they again put to sea, when shortly afterwards
the fly-boat Swan was lost sight of.  In order to save the inconvenience of so many vessels
to look after, Drake determined to lessen their number, that the crews of those remaining might
be strengthened and have less duty to perform.  Winter was coming on, and, in order to prepare
for it, a convenient harbour was searched for.  While examining the coast, on May 8th, during
another storm, the caunter was again separated from the fleet.  The ships being much tossed
about, they stood in with the intention of coming to an anchor near a headland, off which many
rocks were observed.  Drake, who never trusted to other men when he could perform the work
himself, despising danger and toil, had a boat lowered, and rowed in himself to examine the bay.

Approaching the shore, a native was seen singing and dancing, and shaking a rattle, expecting
him to land.  Suddenly the wind still further increased, while a thick fog coming on, the Admiral
lost sight of his ships.  He immediately pulled off to try and regain them, but would very
probably have been lost in the heavy sea running, had not Captain Thomas of the Marigold, at
great risk, stood in, and having taken him on board, bravely rode out the gale.

Next morning the weather cleared, but the rest of the ships were nowhere visible; the Admiral,
therefore, landing, lighted up large signal-fires in the hopes of their being seen by the ships.
The natives had fled up the country for fear of the strangers.  The seamen found, however,
in their huts near the shore the flesh of upwards of fifty ostriches cured, as well of that
of other birds, the size of the former being equal to legs of mutton.  They discovered also
the device by which the ostriches were captured.  This consisted of the head, neck, and plumage
of the bird fixed to the end of a pole, with large feathers sticking out behind sufficient
to conceal a man's body.  With these the ostriches were stalked and driven either into some
neck of land, or against large and strong nets, with the assistance of dogs.

The dispersed ships, seeing the fires, shortly came to an anchor, excepting the Swan and the
Mary, the Portugal prize, which had parted company.  This not being a convenient place, the
squadron sailed on the 15th of May, and on the 17th anchored in a sheltered bay, where they
remained fifteen days.  Having made various necessary arrangements, the Admiral sailed northwards
to look out for the Swan, and dispatched Captain Winter in the Elizabeth for the same object.
She was fortunately soon discovered, and being brought back, was unladen and run on shore,
when she was broken up, her ironwork and planking being distributed among the ships, the latter
to be used as fuel and other purposes.

While the crews were thus employed, the natives made their appearance on the top of a hill,
leaping, dancing, and holding up their hands, and crying out in a curious fashion.  With the
exception of a skin of fur cast about their shoulders, they were naked.  Their bodies were
painted, and the chiefs wore feathers in their hair, which looked at a distance like horns.

The Admiral on this sent a boat on shore with knives, bells, beads, and other things, which
he thought would please them.  Seeing the strangers, two of the natives came rushing down at
a great rate, but stopped short when still at some distance.  On the English retiring, they,
however, advanced and took the articles which had been placed on sticks so that they could
be seen, leaving instead plumes of feathers, and bones shaped like large toothpicks.

Their confidence was soon gained, and numbers coming down, mixed freely among their visitors.
They appeared to be a mild, well-disposed people, and learned to place implicit confidence
in the Admiral, who won the affection of the chief by bestowing upon him the cap he usually
wore. The savage, as a curious mark of his affection, wounded himself with an arrow in the
leg, letting the blood stream on the ground.

These natives were well-made, good-looking, and remarkably active and swift of foot.  They
obtained from the birds and seals frequenting the shore an abundance of food, which, it appeared,
they ate raw.  They were all armed with short bows, and arrows of reed headed with flints.
The English here killed large numbers of birds, which were so tame that they perched on the
men's heads and shoulders, and in a bay near at hand they took upwards of two hundred seals
in the space of an hour.

Having repaired and provisioned the ships, on the 3rd of June they set sail, steering southward,
but anchored again in two days in a bay, where the caunter Christopher was run on shore and
her cargo removed.

Again they proceeded, after anchoring a short time, until they brought up once more in another
bay in 15 degrees 20 minutes, short only one degree off the mouth of the straits.

Here the Admiral, anxious to find the long-missing Mary, which had on board their chief store
of wine, determined to sail back again until they reached the latitude where she had been lost.
A bright look-out was kept for her, and happily, on the evening of the 19th of June, when the
squadron was within a few leagues of Port Saint Julien, the missing ship was sighted.  They
were greatly rejoiced at this; but she was found to be so much out of order, and her crew had
suffered so many privations, that the Admiral thought it well to put into that harbour, which
was to prove a place fatal to several of their number.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

VOYAGE OF SIR FRANCIS DRAKE, CONTINUED--A.D. 1578.

Squadron at Port Saint Julien--Attacked by the natives--Captain Winter, and Oliver the gunner,
killed--Doughty's conspiracy--Trial--Execution-- Squadron sails--Enters the Straits of Magellan--Name
of the Dolphin changed to the Golden Hind--Passage through the Straits--Elizabeth Island--Meets
natives--Enters the Southern Ocean--Ships driven before a northerly gale--The Marigold lost
sight of--After a month's buffeting, the two ships gain a harbour--The Hind again driven to
sea--The Elizabeth deserts her--A pinnace lately set up remains, but is finally lost--The Hind
alone regains a harbour--Sails north--Calls off Mucho Island--Boat treacherously attacked by
natives--Drake wounded--Refuses to retaliate--Reaches the mainland--Search for provisions--Meets
an Indian--Treats him kindly--His friends bring off provisions--He pilots the Hind to Valparaiso--Capture
of a richly-laden vessel, and sack of the town--Sail northward--Put into a bay--Boat's crew
attacked by Spaniards--Minjoy killed--The pinnace set up--Drake sails in her--Driven back by
foul winds--Booty obtained from an Indian asleep and from a train of llamas--Indians come off
on balsas--Two Spaniards, through fear, bring off provisions--Llamas described--Vessels at
Arica and Arequipa plundered--A vessel laden with linen captured--Callao reached-- Drake hears
of the Cacafuego--Plunders several vessels--Sails in pursuit of the Cacafuego--Pursued.

The squadron came to an anchor in Port Saint Julien on the 20th of June, and, having arranged
various matters, the next day but one the Admiral, accompanied by his brother, John Thomas,
Robert Winter, Oliver the master gunner, John Brewer, and Thomas Hood, rowed up along the shore
in search of a good place for watering.

Not far off on the shore was seen the remains of a gibbet, supposed to be that set up by Magalhaens
for the execution of one of his rebellious captains.  On landing, two huge natives, called
by that navigator Patagons, came down and appeared to be friendly, being ready to receive whatever
was offered to them.  They took especial pleasure at seeing Mr Oliver, the master gunner, shoot
with his bow, till they were joined by an ill-tempered-looking savage, who tried to draw them
away.  At this juncture a number more of big fellows, armed with bows, who had hitherto been
concealed, crept up towards the English.  While Mr Winter was also shooting with his bow, thinking
to amuse them as Mr Oliver had done, the string broke.  Not liking their gestures, the Admiral
ordered his party to retreat, covering themselves with their targets, and remembering, probably,
how Magalhaens had been slain, ordering them to break all the arrows aimed at them.

While Mr Winter was trying to repair his string, an arrow shot by one of the savages pierced
his lungs, but he did not fall.  On this the master gunner levelled his caliver--a sort of
blunderbuss--but it missed fire, and before he could shoot it off two savages, taking sure
aim at him, killed him on the spot.

Many other natives had by this time made their appearance, and were coming on with threatening
gestures, when the Admiral, taking the gunner's piece, fired it at the native who had killed
him, and as it had been loaded with bullets and small shot, it tore open his belly.  The tremendous
roars he uttered, equalling that of ten bulls together, so appalled his companions that they
took to flight.

Drake, unwilling further to injure them, allowed them to escape, and had Captain Winter, to
whom he was greatly attached, conveyed down to the boat, leaving the body of the gunner behind.
Mr Winter, however, was too severely injured to recover, and died the following day on board
his ship.  That night a boat was again sent on shore with a number of men well armed.  Here
they discovered the body of the gunner lying where he had fallen, with his coat wrapped up
to form a pillow, and an English arrow stuck in his right eye, showing, as it was conjectured,
that the natives had no wish to be on hostile terms with their visitors.  He and Mr Winter
were buried together, close to the spot where the Spanish captain was supposed to have died.

Drake was greatly grieved at the loss of his friend Winter and his gunner, but he had a still
greater anxiety on his mind from the reports he received of the conduct of one whom he had
considered his friend, Mr Thomas Doughty.  His conduct in appropriating the gifts made to him
by the Portuguese prisoners was reprehensible, but it was now found that he was plotting a
mutiny to kill the Admiral or to supersede him in the command, intending to carry off some
of the squadron, and to sail on a different venture.

So strong was the evidence brought of the nefarious designs of Doughty, that the Admiral was
compelled to summon together forty of the principal officers.  By these, he sitting as president,
Doughty was found guilty, and was condemned either to suffer death, to be left on shore among
the savages, or to be sent home as a prisoner in one of the vessels, with a full statement
of his trial, to be dealt with as her Majesty the Queen might think proper: the choice of which
punishment he would suffer was offered him.

Rather than undergo the shame of being sent home, or to endure the wretched fate which would
have been his lot among the savages--some days being allowed him to decide--he resolved, after
fully acknowledging his guilt, notwithstanding the persuasions of his friends to the contrary,
to select the first alternative offered, desiring only that he might take the communion with
the Admiral, as a token that he died at peace with him and all men.

Strange as it may seem, the sacred ordinance having been celebrated by Mr Francis Fletcher,
the preacher and pastor of the fleet, he dined at the same table as the Admiral, both appearing
cheerful and drinking to each other as if only some journey had been in contemplation.

After dinner he was led forth, and entreating those around to pray for him, he kneeled down
and bade the executioner perform his office.

The stern justice meted out on a gentlemen and an officer who had hitherto been highly esteemed,
had no doubt a great effect in deterring others who might have contemplated any mutinous proceedings.
He was taken on shore and buried where Don Luis de Mendoza was supposed to lie--in a grave
close to those of Mr Winter and the gunner.

This painful duty performed, and other matters arranged, the Mary, the Portuguese prize, being
in a leaky state, she was run on shore near the island on which, for the two months of their
stay, their tents had been pitched.

Here her planks were stripped off, and divided amongst the other three ships, which now constituted
the whole squadron, besides the pinnaces which were still on board.

Having wooded, watered, and thoroughly repaired their vessels, the explorers sailed from this
"Port Accursed," as some of the seamen called it, on the 17th of August, and again steered
southward.

On the 20th they came off the Cabo de las Virgines, as the Spaniards called the entrance to
the Magellan Straits.  About four leagues off it had the appearance of black rocks full of
grey stars, against which the sea beat like the spouting of whales.  At this cape the Admiral
ordered the ships to lower their topsails on the bunt, in homage to the Queen's Majesty; and
he here changed the name of his ship, the Pelican, to that of the Golden Hind, in compliment
to his patron Sir Christopher Hatton, whose coat of arms bore a golden hind.  A sermon being
preached by the chaplain, Master Fletcher, and prayer being offered up, the squadron entered
the straits, passing along which, with land in sight on both sides, they in a short time made
their way through a narrow channel, with a strong wind blowing astern.  They then passed through
a broad expanse.  The following night they saw a lofty island to the southward, which appeared
to burn like that of the island of Fogo.  The tides as they passed on rose and fell regularly,
the difference between high and low water being upwards of five fathoms.

On the 24th of August they came off a large and fruitful island, on which, the weather being
fine, the Admiral and some of his officers landed, taking possession of it in the name of her
Majesty, and calling it Elizabeth Island.  Some other islands close to it abounded with strange--looking
birds, somewhat in size less than a goose, and although they could not fly, ran at a great
rate.  They were in reality penguins, which abounded in those regions.  In one day they killed
no less than three thousand.  On another island they found the body of a man who had been long
dead.  From these islands onwards the passage was so crooked and narrow that they very frequently
had to come to an anchor.  They found numerous harbours and abundance of fresh water.  The
mountains here rose to a great height, their tops apparently lost in the sky, and covered with
ice and snow.  On the low grounds many fine trees were seen, with green grass and herbs, the
temperature being very similar to that of England.

The inhabitants made fires as they passed along, but did not come off to them.  As they drew
near the western entrance of the straits, the passage appeared so narrow, with so many broad
channels opening to the southward, that the Admiral doubted which to select.  He, therefore,
ordering the squadron to anchor, put off himself in a boat, and rowed forwards to survey the
passage.  Having found one of sufficient width, he turned back to rejoin the fleet.  On his
way he fell in with a canoe made of bark, and full of people.  It was of a peculiarly elegant
form, turning up both at the stem and stern in a semicircle, the workmanship being also excellent
in the extreme.  The people in it were of low stature, but of compact form, and had their faces
painted.  They were on their way to the island off which the ships lay at anchor.  A visit
was afterwards paid to them on shore.  Their dwellings were of framework, covered with the
skins of beasts.  Their food appeared to be mussels and other shell-fish.  All their houses
were of bark neatly sewn together. Their knives were formed of mussel-shells of great size,
and were so sharp that they could cut the hardest wood with them, as well as bone, out of which
they made the fizgigs they used for killing fish.

On the 6th of September, to the joy of all on board, the three ships sailed proudly into the
South Sea, having accomplished the whole passage in about a fortnight, which had occupied their
predecessors--Magalhaens, Loyasa, and Juan de Ladrilleros, who had come from the Pacific side--
several months.

The land to the south had been found to consist, not of a mainland, or even of one large island,
but of numerous islands, with broad passages between them.  In consequence of the cold weather
which now came on, the Admiral intended to sail northward, to get as soon as possible into
a warmer latitude; but, a furious north wind arising, the ships could in no way make head against
it, and were driven farther and farther south and east.

Instead of finding it the Pacific Ocean, they, from their experience, considered that it should
be called the Stormy Sea.  Day after day the tempest blew with extraordinary violence.  During
that period, on the 15th of September, an eclipse of the moon occurred, which lasted for a
considerable time, adding to the horrors of the storm.  For many days they ran on under bare
poles, being unable to face it.  On the 30th of the same month, the Marigold, commanded by
Captain John Thomas, who had rendered such service to the Admiral, and having many other of
his friends on board, was separated from her consorts.  It was hoped, however, that she might
be able to rejoin them at their place of rendezvous, about the thirtieth degree of south latitude,
on the coast of Peru.

For a whole month the two remaining ships, sorely battered by the tempest, were out of sight
of land, which at length regaining, on the night of the 7th of October, they ran into a harbour
to the southward. They had not, however, long dropped their anchors before both ships were
again driven out to sea, and that of the Admiral left an anchor behind her, but a sloop which
had been put up at the entrance of the straits soon regained the harbour.  The Elizabeth was
lost sight of, while the Golden Hind was driven far away to the southward, where she lay helplessly
tossed about by the fury of the waves.  Again, the storm abating, she made sail, and sighted
the utmost cape or headland of those islands, about the fifty-sixth degree of south latitude,
and since known as Cape Horn.

On the 28th of October the Golden Hind anchored within a creek of the same island.  Though
people were seen on shore, no communication was held with them.  On the 30th of October, with
a fair wind, Drake steered to the north-west, and then north, in order not to lose sight of
the continent.  The following day the explorers came off an island covered so thickly with
birds that they were able to obtain a plentiful supply; indeed, the whole fleet might have
been equally well furnished.

Coasting along in sight of land, they observed a lofty range of mountains, but the country
appeared barren, without water or wood, except here and there, where Spanish settlements had
been formed.  There being no possibility of obtaining information of the missing ships, they
again ran off towards an island called Mucho, on account of its large size.  Here they came
to an anchor on the 25th, and found it a fertile place, with an abundance of sheep, cattle,
Indian corn, and potatoes. The inhabitants were Indians, who had been driven off by the cruelty
of the Spaniards, and had here fortified themselves.  On ascertaining that the visitors were
English, they came with great courtesy, bringing with them various fruits and two fat sheep,
which they presented to the Admiral.  He, in return, gave them a variety of useful articles,
at which they seemed greatly pleased, and signified that they would return with further provisions.

Next day, therefore, at an early hour, the Admiral, with a number of men, repaired to the beach,
carrying articles for barter.  He first put two men ashore, with casks to obtain water at a
place which had been pointed out, but scarcely had they landed when they were treacherously
set upon and killed.  Shortly afterwards, five hundred savages, armed with bows and darts,
springing up from behind the rocks where they had been concealed, let fly a shower of arrows.
The boat being driven in by the force of the sea towards the beach, the crew had great difficulty
in pulling off.  The Admiral received two wounds, one under his right eye, and one on his head,
nearly penetrating to the bone; the rest of the party being also severely injured in different
parts of their bodies. Had they not succeeded in getting the boat off, the whole might have
been massacred.  The arrows were long reeds, with heads of stone, and their darts were of great
length, with iron or bone tips.

Serious as were the wounds, none proved mortal, and although the chief surgeon was dead, and
the other had gone off in the Elizabeth, so that they had only a lad, whose anxiety to do right
was far greater than his skill, they all in a short time recovered.  Drake, though he might
have revenged himself on the ignorant savages for their unwarrantable attack, convinced that
they were influenced from their hatred of the Spaniards, who had so cruelly ill-treated them,
refrained from retaliating.

In the afternoon the Golden Hind again set sail, Drake being anxious to fall in with the missing
ships as soon as possible, and to find some convenient harbour where fresh provisions and needed
repose for the wounded men could be obtained.

On the 30th of November the Admiral put into a bay at about the thirty-second degree of south
latitude, and forthwith sent a boat to discover what likelihood there was that the place would
afford the things they stood in need of.  After a long search, neither fresh provisions nor
water could be found; but they saw on shore huge herds of buffalo, though no signs of inhabitants.
On their return they fell in with an Indian canoe, which, with the person in it, they brought
alongside.  He was a fine-looking man, dressed in a white shirt reaching to his knees.  His
hair was long, but he had no beard; he appeared to be of a mild and amiable disposition, and
very grateful for the things the Admiral gave him.  He was a fair specimen of the gentle and
harmless people whom the Spaniards were treating so barbarously.

The native's confidence having been thoroughly won, he was sent away in the Hind's boat, accompanied
by his own canoe, that he might be landed wherever he chose.  Being put on shore, he met several
of his friends, to whom he described the kind treatment he had received, and they, accompanied
by their chief or head man, in a short time came off to the ship, bringing hens, eggs, a fat
hog, and other provisions.  The Indian gave them to understand that they could not obtain a
sufficient supply of necessaries at that place, but offered to pilot them to a harbour a short
way to the southward, where they might procure all they required.

Instead, therefore, of landing and going in chase of the buffaloes, as they had proposed doing,
they set sail under their new pilot, and in a short time came to an anchor in the harbour of
Valparaiso, not far from the town of Santiago.

None of the missing ships were here to be seen, nor could tidings be obtained of them.  They
found, however, a large ship, which, as they sailed in, welcomed them by beat of drum, supposing
that they were Spaniards.  At once, therefore, pulling on board, they rudely undeceived the
crew by clapping them all down below, with the exception of one man. He, managing to jump overboard,
swam to shore and alarmed the inhabitants, who speedily took refuge inland, carrying all they
had time to snatch up.

On examining their prize, the Grand Captain, they found that she was laden with eighteen hundred
jars of wine, upwards of twenty five thousand pesos of gold, and a crucifix of gold set with
emeralds.  Going on shore, they found a further quantity of wine, and supplied themselves with
bread and all other necessaries in great abundance of which they stood in need.  They also
plundered a church of its ornaments and relics, among which were two cruets, a silver chalice,
and an altar-cloth.  All these, according to the curious notions which governed the rovers,
were bestowed, as his share of the booty, on Master Fletcher the chaplain, who did not consider
that he was in any way bound to decline them.

Having carried off the pilot of the Grand Captain, who, being a Greek, was called Juan Greigo,
as well as the ship herself, they set sail, and, piloted by the friendly native, steered northward,
until they reached the place where they had taken him on board.  He was here, being loaded
with presents, set on shore, seeming very grateful for the way he had been treated.

As the Golden Hind sailed towards the Line, a sharp look-out was kept for the missing vessels,
while at the same time a search was made for a convenient harbour into which they could run
and refit the ship, as likewise set up one of the pinnaces.  The Admiral was anxious to do
this, as the boat was too small to carry sufficient men should they encounter any Spaniards,
and the ship was too large to put into small harbours.

As soon as the pinnace was completed, he intended to sail to the southward and examine every
creek and small bay on the way, so that should either of the missing vessels have run in for
shelter, she might be discovered.

With this object, on the 19th of December the Golden Hind entered a bay not far from the southward
of Coquimbo, then called Cyppo, and inhabited by Spaniards.  Fourteen of the seamen having
landed, they were observed by the people of the town, who speedily, to the number of three
hundred--of whom a hundred were mounted Spaniards, the others naked Indians, running like dogs
at their heels, showing the miserable condition to which they were reduced--came out to attack
them.

They were descried in time by the English seamen, who, scrambling round the rocks, gained their
boats.  One man, however, Richard Minjoy, vowing that he would not be put to flight by a hundred
despicable Spaniards, remained on the rocks, daring them to come on; but he had not long thus
stood when an arrow pierced him, and the Indians being sent to drag him up to the beach, he
was there cruelly beheaded by the Spaniards, who cut off his right hand and plucked out his
heart, then setting up the body, made the Indians shoot at it.  All this was done in the sight
of the crew.

After this exhibition of their cruel vengeance the Spaniards retired, leaving the body to be
devoured by the beasts of the field and fowls of the air; but the seamen, in spite of the risk
they ran, went on shore and buried it.

This not being the sort of place the English were in search of, nor the treatment they desired,
they speedily got under weigh, and came on the following day to a convenient harbour some distance
to the northward of Cyppo.  Here some time was spent in refitting the ship, and bringing her
into better sailing trim, as also in building the pinnace.

As soon as the latter was finished, the Admiral, with a party of picked men, set sail to proceed
to the southward; but a contrary wind springing up, he was compelled to return.  In this bay
vast quantities of fish resembling the gurnard were found, so that in two or three hours, with
only four or five hooks and lines, sometimes four hundred were taken.

Sailing on the 19th, two days afterwards they reached an island off a high cape, where they
found four Indians fishing from their canoes. These men undertook to pilot them to a place
where fresh water was to be found.

The natives fulfilled their promise, but the amount of water was very insufficient for the
requirements of the ship.  While constantly looking out for fresh water, they discovered a
Spaniard lying asleep, probably drunk, with a bag containing four thousand Spanish ducats.
Without disturbing the poor man's slumbers, they relieved him of his charge, which they carried
off.

Again landing, they met another Spaniard with an Indian boy, driving eight llamas, each laden
with two leathern bags, and in each bag was found fifty pounds weight of refined silver.  Unable
to endure the thoughts of a Spanish gentleman turning carrier, they relieved him of his charge,
themselves becoming drivers, but directing the animals towards their boats.  The entire weight
of the booty thus acquired was eight hundred pounds.

Proceeding northwards, they saw several Indian towns, the people from which came off in a curious
kind of boat, bringing various sorts of fish, wishing to exchange them for knives, beads, and
looking-glasses. Even the old men were as willing to accept such trifles as the young. They,
like the rest of their countrymen, appeared to be of a mild and agreeable disposition.

The boats, if they could be so-called, were perfect novelties to the voyagers.  They consisted
of two large inflated skins fixed side by side, with a board on the top of them, on which the
paddler sat, carrying his merchandise.  They are known as balsas.

The Hind next came off the town of Normarena, governed by two Spaniards.  Drake, wishing to
obtain further refreshments, sent on shore to invite them to traffic.  Rather from fear than
love they consented, and among other things sent off several llamas, which were in height and
length about the size of a small cow; but they must have been of great strength, for three
full-grown men and a boy were seen seated on the back of one of them, their feet not reaching
the ground.  The sheep, as they were called, had necks like camels, but their heads much resembled
those of ordinary sheep.  Their wool was exceedingly fine.  The Spaniards employed them to
carry loads of silver from the mines.  The voyagers heard that, throughout the province of
Cuzco, so rich was the soil that every hundred pounds of earth yielded twenty-five pounds of
pure silver.  This, of course, was an absurdity; but so inflamed were their minds with ideas
respecting the wealth of the country, that they were ready to believe anything told them.

From this place no harbour in which the missing vessels could have taken refuge was found,
until the Golden Hind arrived off the town of Arica, on the 7th of February.  The country around
it appeared rich and fertile; the port was frequented by vessels from Lima and other parts
of Peru, and was inhabited by Spaniards.

Here two vessels were found at anchor, the crews of which were on shore, and the voyagers visiting
them discovered upwards of forty bars of silver, each weighing about twenty pounds.  These
they carried off, and, without communicating with the people on shore, proceeded on to Ylo.
From thence, on their way to Lima, they met another bark at Arequipa, which had begun to load
with gold and silver; but, hearing of their proceedings, the crew had re-landed her cargo.

Shortly afterwards they met another vessel laden with linen, and, thinking that it might be
useful, they took her with them.  As the Admiral was now preparing for more active proceedings,
collecting the prizes, he hoisted their canvas, lashed their helms, and, the wind being off
shore, sent them sailing away across the Pacific.  Great must have been the astonishment of
the natives of some distant islands, when these tenantless barks arrived off their shores.
So rapid had been the progress of the Golden Hind, that on the 15th of February she entered
Callao, the port of Lima, before news of her being on the coast had reached those who resided
there.

They here found a fleet of thirty ships, among which the Golden Hind brought up, no one suspecting
her character.  Had they not been anxious about their missing vessels, they would have been
tempted to take possession of the unarmed merchantmen.

Before their character was discovered, they visited several of the vessels in search of information,
but they could hear nothing of their friends.  They were told, however, that on the 3rd of
February a large ship, called the Cacafuego, laden with a rich cargo of gold and silver, had
sailed for Panama, from which point all goods were carried across the isthmus to the Atlantic
shore, to be transmitted to Spain.

Having obtained all the information he required, Drake pulled round in a boat to the different
ships, on board one of which, belonging to a certain Michael Angelo, one thousand five hundred
bars of plate, besides a chest of silver royals, and silk, linen, and other things, were found.
Of these the owners were quickly relieved.  Several other ships were visited, and whatever
articles of value were found on hoard them taken, though the whole did not amount to much.
The crews being mostly on shore, no resistance was offered.

While thus employed they saw a stranger entering the port, but she got timely notice of how
the English were engaged, and, nutting about, made her escape to sea.  Not knowing, however,
the direction they intended to sail, she stood northward, and only deferred for a time falling
into the hands of her enemies, for she was soon afterwards captured.

The two largest ships were carried out of the harbour, where their mainmasts were cut away,
while the cables of the smaller vessels were chopped through, so that they might drift wherever
the tide might carry them.

These precautions were not unnecessary.  Drake at once made chase after the rich prize he had
heard of, but there was still the risk of his being overtaken.  While yet in sight of the port,
the Golden Hind lay becalmed, and from her deck two large vessels were seen standing off the
land to attack her.  The boats were lowered, and the crews pulled with might and main to keep
ahead.

Nearer and nearer their enemies approached.  The odds were fearfully against them.  The English
well knew that the Spanish ships would be crowded with men, who would, in overwhelming numbers,
should they get alongside, endeavour to crush them.  But their hearts did not fail. Cheering
each other they rowed on, resolved if overtaken to fight to the last.  Drake, however, had
no idea of risking an action, for even though he might gain the victory, his ship and many
of his people would be injured, and he would probably be compelled to abandon his undertaking.

As the voyagers watched the approaching foe, to their great joy they saw cats'-paws playing
over the ocean; then their sails were filled by a breeze, which increased to a fresh gale,
and away they flew on their desired course.

Still the Spanish ships followed, and the next morning appeared to be gaining on the Golden
Hind.  By noon, however, they were seen to haul their wind and turn back, the reason being
that the Spaniards, in their hurry to get on board, had forgotten to bring with them any provisions,
and, like other men, had no desire to fight on empty stomachs.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

VOYAGE OF SIR FRANCIS DRAKE, CONTINUED--A.D. 1579.

The Golden Hind chases the Cacafuego--Pursued by the Spaniards-- Captures several vessels--The
Line crossed--When off Cape Francisco a sail seen ahead--The Cacafuego heaves to--Is captured
and plundered-- Dismissed with a letter from Drake--The Hind puts into Cano--Other prizes taken--Sails
for Guatuico--A council interrupted, and judge and prisoners carried off--Booty obtained--The
pilot Da Silva and all prisoners set at liberty--The Hind sails northward--Bitter cold-- Driven
to the southward--Puts into the bay of San Francisco--A fort built--Natives appear--Friendly
behaviour--Strange ceremonies--Visit from the King, who makes his country over to her Majesty--Drake
horrified at the attempt of the natives to worship him--They at length take their departure--Drake's
excursion into the country--Sees deer-- Coneys--Native huts--Preparations for departure--Grief
of the natives-- The Golden Hind sails away--The country named Albion.

Onward pressed the Golden Hind, her crew eager to overtake the richly-laden Cacafuego, or the
Spitfire, as we will translate her name.  Drake considered that she was likely to touch at
other ports to take in more cargo, and, trusting to that circumstance and to her being occasionally
becalmed, he confidently hoped to overtake her before she could reach Panama and land her cargo.

The sharpest of look-outs was kept ahead, and the seamen were constantly in the fore-top straining
their eyes in expectation of catching sight of her white canvas.  Every port was narrowly scanned
on the chance of her having put in there.  When the wind fell, the crew eagerly leapt into
the boats to pull ahead.  When there was a breeze every inch of canvas the ship could carry
was spread to urge her along.  The chase would prove a rich prize, for her cargo was worth
many times more than that of all the vessels they had hitherto captured.

Drake was not aware all this time that he had enemies following astern, resolved to sink the
Golden Hind, and hang the bold rover captain and every one of his pirate crew, for such they
considered them, or, should they escape, purposing to lie in wait for them as they should attempt
to pass again to the eastward through the Straits of Magellan.

A favouring breeze filling her sails, the Golden Hind pressed on.  The ports of Paita, Saint
Helena, and Guayaquil were successively passed; but, on the principle that a bird in the hand
is worth two in the bush, they hove to some time after leaving Callao to capture a ship they
sighted on their way, the one which had before escaped.

Another they took in the port of Paita, partly laden with wine, and a third, laden with ships'
stores, besides eighty pounds weight in gold. They made quick work of it, however, for they
had just heard that a vastly superior force was on the look-out for them.

When near the Line they captured another vessel, belonging to Gabriel Alvarez.  From him, as
well as from the prisoners taken in the other ships, the information they had before received
was confirmed, that the Cacafuego was but a short distance ahead of them.  Their hopes, therefore,
rose higher than ever.  Drake, who was not less eager than his men to capture the rich argosy,
to sharpen their eyesight promised to the first that should discover her the gold chain he
wore round his neck.

It was the ist of March.  The Line was passed.  Far off, on the starboard bow, the lofty headland
of Cape Francisco was seen, though dim and indistinct.  All day long the seamen, with eager
eyes, had been looking out ahead and on either side, hoping to espy the tiny speck of white
just above the horizon.  The day was clear, the sun shone brightly down from an unclouded sky,
and the Golden Hind in hot haste sped on, her canvas spread wide on either side to catch the
breeze.  Midday was passed.  In spite of the heat every one was on deck, the eyes of most of
the ship's company, whether there or aloft, looking in the direction they were going.

Presently a shout rose from the summit of the highest mast, to which John Drake, a seaman,
had climbed--

"A sail, a sail! right ahead!"

"Should the stranger prove to be the Cacafuego, the chain of gold shall be yours, John," replied
the Admiral.

If human muscles could have urged on the Golden Hind at a greater speed than she was going,
the men would have exerted their strength until they had dropped.  They could do nothing, however,
but stand on deck or cling to the masts and shrouds, looking at the distant sail with still
more eagerness than before.

Gradually the topsails of the stranger rose above the horizon, then her courses or lower sails,
then the hull itself came into view.  As they examined her from the trucks to the water's edge,
they were more and more convinced that she was the argosy of which they had been so long in
chase.  What was their astonishment, at length, to see her clew up her sails and heave to!

"Is she so strongly armed that she can venture to stop and fight us?" was the question.

No one had anticipated that she earned guns.  Such had not been the practice of the Spaniards
in those seas, for they had been fully convinced that no enemies could venture through the
straits to wrest their ill-gotten treasures from their hands.  Hitherto they had enjoyed the
monopoly of tyrannising over the Indians, and of all the profitable commerce carried on along
the coast.  Drake had aroused them from their sleep of security.

The Golden Hind got nearer and nearer to the stranger.  John Drake felt convinced that he had
won the Admiral's chain.  Presently the ship ahead was seen to put her helm up and make all
sail, endeavouring to escape; but it was too late,--already she was within range of the guns
of the Golden Hind, which forthwith began pouring forth their shot, aimed not at her hull--that
was too precious to be injured--but at her masts and spars.  The English were rejoiced to see
the efforts made by the Spanish captain to escape, for this convinced them that his cargo was
a valuable one, or he would not have run the risk of losing his life or the lives of his men
from the iron shot which came rattling on board. Another shout, triumphant and jubilant, rose
from the deck of the Golden Hind.  The mast of the chase was shot away, and the adventurers,
soon getting up to her, made fast alongside.

She was indeed the Cacafuego.  The captors eagerly pressed on board, the Spanish captain and
his crew having no heart to oppose them.  He confessed that, when he hove to, he had taken
the Golden Hind for a Spanish ship, sent by the Viceroy with some special message for him to
convey to Panama, and great had been his astonishment when he discovered her real character.
The Admiral, setting all sail, carried his prize away from the land, out of the track of passing
vessels or of the Spanish squadron sent in chase of him, that he might at his leisure transfer
her cargo to the hold of the Golden Hind.

Unbounded was the delight of the seamen when they found that the riches she contained were
fully equal to the amount they had been led to expect.  The bowls, with which Drake was mightily
pleased, belonged to the pilot, and when the Admiral told him he must have one of them for
a punch-bowl, to show his contempt and hatred of the English, he presented the other to the
Admiral's steward.  Nearly six days were spent in unloading the ship of her precious cargo,
when she was allowed to proceed on her way to Panama; Drake having presented to the captain,
Juan de Anton, some linen and other articles, and a letter addressed to Captain Winter and
other officers of the squadron, requesting them, should they fall in with him, to give him
double the value of anything they might receive, and treat him well.

The Golden Hind then stood off the coast, to avoid any Spanish vessels that might be on the
look-out for her.  Though still searching for the missing ships, the explorers had now very
little hope of finding them.

Both officers and crew, indeed, began to pine for home, with a great desire also to carry the
enormous wealth they had obtained with them. Drake's great object was now--having repaired
and stored the ship--to go in search of a passage round the northern end of America into the
Atlantic Ocean.  That one existed he had ever believed, though he little thought of the icy
barrier which blocked it up.  His hope was that he should find it, and that then he and his
companions should speedily with joy return to their longed-for homes.

He now shaped a course for the island of Cano, off the coast of Nicaragua.  On his way he fell
in with one more Spanish ship, laden with linens, silk, and china dishes, and a falcon of finely-wrought
gold, on the breast of which was set a large emerald.  Having taken only the more valuable
portions of the cargo, the vessel was dismissed, an Indian and a pilot only being detained.

On the 16th of March they reached Cano, when they entered a fresh water river suitable for
their object.  While the Hind and the pinnace lay at anchor, about a mile from the shore, suddenly
they found the vessels quiver and shake as if they had struck a rock.  A terrible earthquake
was taking place, the effects of which were felt even at that distance from the land.

They here obtained fresh water, wood, and an abundance of fish, besides monkeys and several
animals killed on shore.  While the ship was here, the pinnace, being dispatched on active
duty, brought in a prize, laden with honey, butter, and other commodities, besides which were
letters from the King of Spain to the Governor of the Philippines, and charts, or sea cards,
as they were called.  The latter afterwards proved of considerable value to the voyagers.

The Admiral, considering it prudent, with a long voyage in prospect, to thoroughly provision
the ship, determined to put into some place where he might, either by fair means or by force,
obtain a sufficient quantity of the articles he considered necessary.  He therefore compelled
the pilot who had last been taken to steer the ship to Guatulco.  He reached that place in
safety.  As soon as they had dropped anchor, the boats were lowered and a well-armed party
hastened on shore.

Marching up to the largest building, they found a council of the principal inhabitants, who
altogether consisted only of seventeen Europeans, trying a number of Indians accused of forming
a plot to burn the place.  To the astonishment of the Spaniards, and to the no small joy probably
of the accused Indians, all were hurried on board, when the judge was compelled, upon the threat
of being carried off, to write to his fellow-townsmen, advising them to offer no resistance.

While he was thus kept as a hostage, the place was ransacked; but the only valuable booty collected
was a bushel of silver reals.  One of the party, however, Thomas Moon, observing a Spanish
gentleman running off in great fright, pursued and took from him a chain of gold and some jewels.

The rovers obtained also numerous articles of provision, clothing, stores, and suchlike, which
they much needed.  They here landed the Portuguese pilot Nuna da Silva, whom they had brought
from the Cape de Verdes, and likewise set at liberty all the other prisoners they had taken.

Having thus arranged their business on shore, on the 16th of April they set sail, standing
out into the ocean.  Obtaining a fair wind, they steered northward for one thousand four hundred
leagues, until they reached the forty-second degree of north latitude.  Here they found the
cold so intense, that many of the crew suffered greatly.  The air was biting in the extreme,
and even the ropes of the ship on which the rain fell became covered with ice.  This occurred
not only at night, but during the day, when the sun was shining.

As they sailed two degrees farther north, the seamen could scarcely keep themselves warm with
the thickest clothing they could put on.  They found it difficult also, even with double the
number of men, to work the ropes and trim the sails.  The crew, not without reason, began to
murmur, and declared that they should never be able to endure the cold. The Admiral, however,
urged them to persevere.  They were standing on when they found themselves close to a shore
trending to the westward, and, compelled by a contrary wind, they put into a bay, where they
brought up; but the anchorage appearing very insecure, they sailed out again.  The Admiral
would have continued on his course again in search of a passage, but a northerly wind springing
up, drove the Golden Hind once more to the southward.

Though it was in the height of summer, the cold continued so bitter, that many would have taken
to their beds had they not been compelled to attend to the working of the ship.  During this
time also the sky became so overcast with clouds and thick mists, that it was impossible to
take an observation.  At length they came to the conclusion that there was no passage at all
along the north shore of America, or that it was so blocked up with ice as to be impassable.
They ran in and dropped anchor in a roadstead, since called the Bay of San Francisco.

The following day the natives came down to the beach, and sent off a man in a canoe, who, as
he approached, stood up and made a long speech, using a variety of gesticulations, moving his
hands and turning his head about in all directions.  His address concluded, he turned back
and made for the shore.  In a short time he came again, and behaved exactly in the same manner;
a third time he appeared, bringing with him as a present a bunch of feathers, much like those
of a black crow, all neatly and cleverly put together, forming a sort of crown, such as was
also worn by the principal persons in attendance on the chief.  He also produced a small basket
made of rushes, filled with a herb, which the natives called tabak, from which the French take
the word tabac, and the English tobacco.  Having tied this to a pole, he placed it in the boat
alongside.

Drake would at once have recompensed him with several articles, but the only thing he would
receive was a hat, which was floated off to him.

As the ship had sprung a leak and required to be put on shore, she was carried nearer, in order
that her cargo might be landed, and that she might be repaired.

In order to guard against any attack from the natives, the Admiral decided on throwing up a
fort, in which, for security, their valuable cargo and stores might be placed, and which would
serve as a protection to themselves.

While the English were thus employed, the natives were seen coming over the brow of a hill,
at the foot of which, close to the beach, the fort was being built.  At first only a few warriors
appeared, armed with bows and arrows, then more and more came.  The seamen sprang to their
arms; Drake ordered them not to fire or to show any sign of alarm.

The savages, it appeared, however, had no hostile intentions, for they approached in a humble
fashion, as if they were inclined rather to reverence the white strangers than to attack them.
Their numbers still further increased.

It being intimated to them by signs that they must lay aside their bows and arrows, they willingly
did as they were directed.  The example of the first parties was followed by the rest.  Drake,
anxious to secure their good-will by every possible means, distributed among them various articles
of clothing, of which they stood greatly in need.  As the natives by their reverential gestures
appeared to look upon their visitors as beings of a superior order, Drake, shocked at the thoughts
of allowing himself or his men for a moment to be so worshipped, tried to make them understand
that he and his companions required clothing as much as they did, as also food and water, for
which purpose he and his companions ate and drank in their presence.  Notwithstanding this,
nothing apparently could remove the idea entertained by the Indians that the white men were
divinities.

In return for the shirts, linen, cloths, and other articles they had received, they offered
feather ornaments, net-work bags, quivers made of deer-skin, and various skins.

The costume of these people was not very elaborate.  The women wore on their shoulders the
skins of deer, with the hair upon them, in addition to which they had petticoats formed of
rushes combed out, hanging down from their waists to their knees.  They appeared to be very
obedient to their lords and masters, and did not even venture to move without asking permission.
The men wore scarcely any clothing whatever.

Having satisfied their curiosity, or whatever brought them to visit the strangers, they retired
towards some woods seen in the distance, where their dwellings were supposed to be.

Scarcely had they reached the woods, when they began weeping and crying out, the women especially
shrieking in shrill tones, the sounds, although they were three-quarters of a mile off, reaching
to the fort.

Drake wisely considered, in consequence of the experience he had had with other savages, notwithstanding
the humble way in which they had behaved, that it would be dangerous to trust them too much,
well aware, also, that any trifling event might cause a breach of the peace.

For two days none of the savages came near the voyagers, who were thus able to finish the fort
without interruption.  It was constructed of rough stones and stakes, so that with their guns
and crossbows it might easily be defended against any number of assailants.

At the end of two days a still larger number of people than before appeared in the distance,
men, women, and children, who brought with them, as they had before, feathers and bags of tabak,
as propitiatory offerings.  On reaching the top of a hill they stopped, when one of their number,
who appeared to be their chief, commenced an oration in a loud voice, which could be clearly
heard, though he was at some distance; while he used at the same time the strangest and most
violent gestures, exerting himself until he was breathless.

When he had concluded, the rest bowed their bodies, crying "Oh!" as if to give their consent
to the truth of all he had spoken.  This done, the men, leaving their bows and arrows on the
top of the hill with their women and children, approached the fort with their presents.  As
they did so, the women began shrieking in the most piteous tones, tearing their flesh with
their nails, and dashing themselves against hard stones and stumps of trees and prickly bushes
until blood streamed from their cheeks and all parts of their bodies.  Supposing that they
were performing some rite in honour of the diabolical beings they worshipped, Drake, to avert
the evil which might ensue should he calmly sanction such a proceeding, ordered his men to
fall on their knees, he himself setting the example.  There they offered up prayers to God,
that He would in His own good pleasure open the eyes of the savages, that they might in due
time be called to a knowledge of Himself and Jesus Christ, whom He hath sent to be the salvation
of the Gentiles.

While the chaplain was reading certain portions in the Bible, and the seamen were joining in
the prayers and singing psalms, the savages watched them attentively, at every pause uttering
"Oh!" as if highly pleased.

The service over, the savages approached, and their first request was that the English would
again sing them some psalms.

On further presents being offered them, they left them behind, wishing to show that they had
not come to receive such things.  Towards the end of another three days a still larger number
of people appeared: so great, indeed, was the concourse, that it seemed as if the whole population
of the country for a considerable distance must have been assembled.

From the midst of the crowd two persons were seen approaching, who from their gestures were
supposed to be heralds.  As far as could be understood, their Hioh or King was at hand, and
desired to pay the strangers a visit.

One of the heralds spoke in a low soft voice, as if to prompt his companion; the other repeated
word by word what was said in a loud and sonorous tone.  The speech lasted half an hour.  At
the end of it they requested that something might be sent to their Hioh, as a token that he
would be received as a friend.

With this request Drake willingly complied, and a suitable present was placed in the hands
of the heralds, who took their departure.

In a short time a handsome man of great stature was seen approaching, who from his plumed head-dress
and a coat of rich skins which he wore, reaching to his waist, was shown to be their King.
In front marched a fine-looking man of large size, carrying a heavy black club, to which was
suspended two feather crowns and three chains of great length, made of bone highly polished,
and a bag containing tabak.

He was accompanied by some tall warriors, who formed his body-guard, their head-dresses and
coats being very similar to those of the King. They all had their faces painted, some with
white, others black, and others of various colours, each man carrying in his hand a gift of
some sort.  Behind these came a concourse of nearly naked people, their long hair being gathered
into a bunch behind, and ornamented with plumes of feathers in various forms, some having stuck
a feather on each side on the front of their heads, which looked like horns.

Last of all came the women and children, the women carrying, hung round their necks in front,
baskets of tabak and roots which they called petah,--no doubt the potato,--and boiled fishes.
Their baskets, formed of dried grass, were neatly woven, the edges ornamented with mother-of-pearl
and shells; while on the sides were interwoven red feathers in various devices.  So fine were
these baskets that they would hold water.

As the cortege approached they struck up a loud chant, to the measured time of which they marched
forward.  As they got nearer, after a shout of welcome had been uttered by the entire concourse,
the sceptre-bearer advanced, and in a manly voice commenced an oration, prompted by a companion,
and at the conclusion, according to the rule, they all shouted "Oh!" to signify "Amen."

The King himself then, accompanied by both men and women, the children only being left behind,
with stately step came down the hill.  On reaching its foot, close to the fort, the sceptre-bearer
commenced in a slow measure a dignified dance, keeping time to a chant or song which he began;
then the King and his guards and every other person joined in the song and dance, the women
also dancing, but not singing.  In this way, dancing and singing, they advanced close up to
the fort.

So satisfied was Drake that these performances were friendly, that he allowed them freely to
enter the fort.  When the women approached with their offerings, it was seen that blood was
streaming from their bodies, their faces, and necks.

They now requested Drake to sit down, when both the King and his chief men made long orations,
and these the English understood to signify that they desired to place the country and everything
they possessed at the feet of her Majesty the Queen.  They were still further convinced of
this when the King--the rest singing a joyful song--placed the crown on the Admiral's head,
and threw the bone chains which had been brought round his neck, addressing him as "Hioh."

Drake, not considering this as any superior reverence to himself, but only such as would be
paid to the King, did not think it right to refuse the homage or the gifts thus freely offered,
hoping that in time to come it might redound to the honour and profit of his country, and that
these children of nature would willingly receive missionaries of the Gospel, and be brought
to a right knowledge of the true and ever-living God.

The natives now dispersing themselves among the English, each selected some person on whom
to bestow his present, choosing, it was observed, most willingly the youngest.  This done,
they again commenced shrieking and tearing the flesh on their faces.  In vain the officers
and men endeavoured to dissuade them from continuing such heathenish practices, by lifting
up their eyes and hands to heaven, as if pointing to the living God, whom they ought to serve.

Becoming at length more calm, the natives began to exhibit their sores and wounds, shrunk sinews,
and other complaints from which they suffered, by signs beseeching them to cure them, as if
by merely blowing upon them this could be done.  On this the young surgeon got out such lotions,
plasters, and ointments as he fancied might do them service. It was almost night before the
savages retired, but nearly every day they returned, and sometimes forgot to bring food with
them, when the Admiral ordered them to be supplied with mussels, seals, and such meat as could
be spared, with which they appeared well pleased.

Observing that their offerings were not acceptable, they refrained from bringing them, but
still came down and sat in groups, watching what was going forward.  They appeared to be people
of an especially tractable and mild nature, free from treachery.  Their only weapons were their
bows and arrows, which constituted all their wealth.  These were, however, so small and weak
that they could do but little injury with them; they employed them chiefly to shoot the fish
swimming along shore or the smaller animals of the chase.  This seemed strange, as the men
were strong, and would take up loads such as two or three Englishmen could barely lift, and
carry them without difficulty up or down hill for a mile together.  They also ran with exceeding
swiftness and for a long time.

Having got on well in the repairing and refitting of the ship, Drake and his officers made
an excursion into the interior, where they saw vast herds of fat deer, and the whole land seemed
burrowed by small animals somewhat like coneys, the heads resembling those of rats, the feet
of moles, and having tails of great length.  Under their chins and on either side was a bag,
into which they stowed their food after they had gathered it, that they might either feed their
young or themselves at their leisure.  The people ate the meat of these animals, and the skins
were considered of great value, the King's robes of state being made of them.  Several of the
native houses were entered.  The lower part consisted of a square pit dug in the earth, with
a roof; while the upper portion was formed by several poles stuck in the ground and joined
together at the top, the whole being interlaced with twigs, and this being covered with earth
was impervious to cold or rain.  The doorway was of the size and shape of the scuttle of a
ship, formed in the sloping roof, and served also to allow the escape of smoke.

A fire was placed in the centre, and the beds of the inmates were on the hard ground, covered
only with rushes and mats.  The huts being low, and without any means of ventilation except
from a single small doorway, the heat within, even though there was no fire, when a number
of persons were collected, was intense.

By the time the Admiral returned, everything was ready for continuing the voyage.  Before sailing
he put up a strong post, with a brass plate fixed to it, on which was engraved the name of
the Queen, the day and year of their arrival, and the free giving up of the province, both
by the King and the people, into her Majesty's hands, together with a sixpence, showing her
Majesty's picture and arms.  Underneath Drake's name was engraven, and further particulars.
He believed that no Spaniard had ever before set foot on the shore, not being aware that Juan
Rodriguez Cabrillo, a Portuguese by birth, had thirty-seven years previously explored the coast
by command of the Viceroy of Spain.

As the natives perceived that the English were about to take their departure, the ship being
now hauled out, with her sails ready for hoisting, they gave themselves up to unbounded grief,
so that nothing that could be said to them seemed to lighten their sorrow.  They could not
be prevented lighting a fire, supposed to be sacrificial; but when the English commenced praying
and singing psalms, they appeared to forget their fury, and came round, lifting up their hands
and eyes to heaven, as they saw them doing.  On the 23rd of July they took a sorrowful farewell
of their visitors, who, shoving off in their boats, went on board the Golden Hind.  Her crew,
as they sailed away, saw fires burning on all the surrounding heights, kindled by the natives,
evidently either to do them honour or to show their affection.

Drake bestowed on this country the name of Albion, in consequence of the whiteness of the cliffs,
which resembled those of England, and because his native land was so-called.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

VOYAGE OF SIR FRANCIS DRAKE, CONTINUED--A.D. 1579-80.

Search of passage to north-east abandoned--Passage across the Pacific--A group of islands made--Thievish
practices of the natives--Called the Carolines--The Moluccas reached--Friendly reception by
the King of Ternate--Comes off in his state barge--His magnificent jewels--The Hind sails--Careened
at an island near Celebes--Gigantic trees, fire-flies, crabs--Gets among reefs and shoals--Strikes
on a rock-- Perilous position of the ship--Gets off--A heavy gale--Runs under bare poles--Anchors
off Baratira--Natives friendly--Sails on to Java--The Rajah treats them well--The Golden Hind
sails across the Indian Ocean--Rounds the Cape of Good Hope--Touches at Sierra Leone--Enters
the Channel--Plymouth reached the 25th of September, 1580--Received by the Queen--The Queen
visits the Golden Hind--Drake knighted--His subsequent enterprises against the Spaniards--In
command of the Bonaventura attacks the Spanish Armada--His last expedition to the West Indies,
and death at sea.

After touching at some islands which lie about a day's sail to the westward of California,
where there was a large supply of seals and aquatic birds, the Golden Hind continued her course.
In consequence of the increased cold, all idea of finding a passage round the north of America,
by the consent of every officer on board, was abandoned, and a course was steered which, it
was hoped, would enable them to reach the Moluccas.

For full sixty-eight days the voyagers sailed on, their view during the whole of that period
being bounded by sky and sea.  As far as their experience went, it was to them a Pacific Ocean,
for they had smooth water and favouring breezes.  They fell in with the usual sights, flying-fish
endeavouring to escape from their foes the bonitos; huge whales showing their presence by spouting
clouds of mist into the air; while now and then a strong-winged bird passed in their sight.

Good fellowship prevailed amongst them, no words of discontent escaped from their lips.  They
had confidence in their leader, and, above all, reliance on God's good providence.  They were
men pious after a manner. The robberies they committed did not trouble their consciences, for
they considered that they had lawfully despoiled the Spaniards of their unlawfully gotten gains.
They each considered that they had performed a noble and meritorious act in thus revenging
on the heads of the tyrants the injuries inflicted on the helpless Indians, as well as of those
which they and their countrymen had received.  Even Master Fletcher, the chaplain, looked with
a complacent eye on the crucifix set with brilliants, the bowls, chalices, and other articles,
which, according to his view, having been taken from the idolatrous temples of the hated foe,
were his proper share of the spoil; and he was ready to receive as many more similar articles
as might be allotted to him.

As the sailors thought of the huge bars of silver and the chests of plate stowed away in the
hold, they prayed with all earnestness to Heaven for a successful termination to their voyage,
and resolved, like true men as they were, that nothing should be lacking on their part to accomplish
it.

At length a group of islands was seen, from which a large number of canoes came off, manned
some by four, others by fifteen men, bringing with them cocoa-nuts, fish, potatoes, and fruits.
Their canoes were formed out of one tree, but smoothly and cleverly hollowed out, having the
appearance of being skilfully burnished.  The bow and stern were of the same shape, turned
inwards in a semicircle, and highly ornamented with glistening shells.  On either side of the
canoe pieces of timber were hung out, from a yard to a yard and a half long, according to the
size of the canoes, to the ends of which was fastened a beam, the object being to keep them
from upsetting.

The ears of the natives hung down on either side of their cheeks, weighted by heavy ornaments.
Some had nails on their fingers an inch long, and their teeth were as black as pitch, caused
by rubbing them with a black pigment contained in a cane.

On first coming alongside they appeared ready to trade in an ordinary honest way, and gave
the articles they had brought off willingly for whatever they received; but others coming round
in great numbers, snatched up anything they could get hold of, and made off with it.

Drake, to show that this was not approved of, would not deal with those who had thus behaved.
They still, however, came round with the greatest impudence, and asked for more.  At length,
to warn them, he ordered a gun without shot to be fired over their heads.  On hearing the sound,
in natural alarm they leapt overboard, and dived under their canoes, when, waiting until the
ship had passed on, they got into them and made for the shore.  Others, however, in a short
time came off, one of whom had the impudence to steal a dagger from a seaman's belt.  Being
ordered to restore it, instead of so doing, he grasped at other things, and tried to make his
escape.  At length the seamen, losing patience, handling the ropes' ends and other still more
formidable weapons, drove their roguish visitors overboard, and as they sailed away, bestowed
on the group the name of the Islands of Thieves, now known as the Carolines.  Thence sailing
southward, the Hind passed several islands till she reached that of Mindanao, whence two canoes
came off; but the wind blowing strong, Drake could not wait to communicate with them.

On the 3rd of November she came in sight of the high-peaked Molucca Islands, to the east of
which lies the great island of Gilolo.  The two principal are called Ternate and Tidore.  Drake
had intended to touch at the latter, but when near the little island of Motir, belonging to
Ternate, a person of consequence, the Viceroy of the island, came off with the information
that the King had driven the Portuguese, who were enemies to him as well as to them, out of
Ternate, and that he was anxious to receive the English with due honour, and to open up a commercial
intercourse with them.  He assured Drake that if he dealt with the Portuguese, he would find
them treacherous and deceitful, and that the King of Ternate would have nothing to do with
him if he had any intercourse with them.

In consequence of this Drake resolved to run to Ternate, off which island, early the next day,
the Golden Hind came to an anchor.  The Admiral immediately sent a velvet cloak to the King,
with a message stating that he came on a friendly visit.

The Viceroy did not fail strongly to impress the King's mind with an idea of the consequence
and power of the Queen of England, and he came back carrying a signet ring, as a sign to Drake
that he would be well received, saying that the King himself, with his nobles, would soon pay
him a visit on board.

Meantime Drake sent one of his officers on shore, who was met on landing by a number of the
chief people, and by them was conducted into the presence of the King.

His Majesty blamed himself for not having at once come off to pay his promised visit, and announced
his intention of speedily making his appearance.  The ship was accordingly decked with flags,
the officers and crew were attired in their best, while the guns were got ready to fire a salute.
At length signs were perceived that the great person was coming off.

