Hip, Hip, Hurra!--During the stirring times of the Crusades, the chivalry of Europe was excited
to arms by the inflammatory appeals of the well-known Peter the Hermit. While preaching the
Crusade, this furious zealot was accustomed to exhibit a banner emblazoned with the following
letters, H.E.P., the initials of the Latin words, "Hierosolyma Est Perdita," Jerusalem is destroyed.
The people in some of the countries which he visited, not being acquainted with the Latin,
read and pronounced the inscription as if one word--HEP. The followers of the Hermit were accustomed,
whenever an unfortunate Jew appeared in the streets, to raise the cry, "Hep, hep, hurra," to
hunt him down, and flash upon the defenceless Israelite their maiden swords, before they essayed
their temper with the scimetar of the Saracen.--Tatler.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wool-gathering.--A very patriotic landlord, Squire Henry, of Straffan, county of Kildare, had
hit on an expedient to benefit the wool-growers in general, and his numerous tenantry in particular.
Knowing that market value is in the direct ratio of demand and scarcity, he annually buried
the wool shorn from his own sheep, lest it might interfere with the profitable sale of his
tenants' fleeces. But, alas! this generous system of self-sacrifice did not "work well." The
result was--though Squire Henry never suspected the existence of such turpitude in the human
heart--the ungrateful tenantry dug up by night what he buried by day, wool never rose in price,
and they never were able to pay up their arrears of rent.--Fraser's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

One day, a physician alighted from his carriage, and entering the shop of a medical bookseller,
inquired of its sleek-faced master, "whether he had a copy of Heberden's Commentaries?" "No,
sir," replied the man of letters, "but we have Caesar's Commentaries, and they are by far the
best."--Metropolitan.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mortality in the reign of William IV.--Since the accession of King William not less, we are
told, than twenty-four generals and twenty-six admirals, have found their way into Westminster
Abbey, or elsewhere. Considering that his majesty continues to receive the most friendly assurances
from all foreign powers, this attack upon the army and navy list is rather prodigious. Napoleon
himself could scarcely have made greater gaps in the United Service Club in the time. To be
sure they were not all Nelsons and Marlboroughs, or we should have marked them as they dropped
off; whereas one can hardly name, five of the fifty great warriors. --Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

Origin of Black Monday.--Black Monday--Easter Monday, in the year 1359, when hail stones killed
both men and horses in the army of our King Edward the Third, in France. He was on his march,
within two leagues of Chartres, when there happened a storm of piercing wind, that swelled
to a tempest of rain, lightning, and hail stones, so prodigious, as instantly to kill 6,000
of his horses, and 1,000 of his best troops. P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *