Though one of the most distinguished and beloved of preachers in the French language, Gaussen
was after a time suspended from the ministry, his principal offense being that instead of the
church’s catechism, a tame and rationalistic manual, almost destitute of positive faith, he
had used the Bible in giving instruction to the youth. He afterward became teacher in a theological
school, while on Sunday he continued his work as catechist, addressing the children, and instructing
them in the Scriptures. His works on prophecy also excited much interest. From the professor’s
chair, through the press, and in his favorite occupation as teacher of children, he continued
for many years to exert an extensive influence, and was instrumental in calling the attention
of many to the study of the prophecies which showed that the coming of the Lord was near.

In Scandinavia also the advent message was proclaimed, and a wide-spread interest was kindled.
Many were roused from their careless security, to confess and forsake their sins, and seek
pardon in the name of Christ. But the clergy of the state church opposed the movement, and
through their influence some who preached the message were thrown into prison. In many places
where the preachers of the Lord’s soon coming were thus silenced, God was pleased to send the
message, in a miraculous manner, through little children. As they were under age, the law of
the state could not restrain them, and they were permitted to speak unmolested.

The movement was chiefly among the lower class, and it was in the humble dwellings of the laborers
that the people assembled to hear the warning. The child-preachers themselves were mostly poor
cottagers. Some of them were not more than six or eight years of age; and while their lives
testified that they loved the Saviour, and were trying to live in obedience to God’s holy requirements,
they ordinarily manifested only the intelligence and ability usually seen in children of that
age. When standing before the people, however, it was evident that they were moved by an influence
beyond their own natural gifts. Tone and manner changed, and with solemn power they gave the
warning of the judgment, employing the very words of Scripture, “Fear God, and give glory to
Him; for the hour of His judgment is come.” They reproved the sins of the people, not only
condemning immorality and vice, but rebuking worldliness and backsliding, and warning their
hearers to make haste to flee from the wrath to come.

The people heard with trembling. The convicting Spirit of God spoke to their hearts. Many were
led to search the Scriptures with new and deeper interest, the intemperate and immoral were
reformed, others abandoned their dishonest practices, and a work was done so marked that even
ministers of the state church were forced to acknowledge that the hand of God was in the movement.

It was God’s will that the tidings of the Saviour’s coming should be given in the Scandinavian
countries; and when the voices of His servants were silenced, He put His Spirit upon the children,
that the work might be accomplished. When Jesus drew near to Jerusalem attended by the rejoicing
multitudes that, with shouts of triumph and the waving of palm branches, heralded Him as the
Son of David, the jealous Pharisees called upon Him to silence them; but Jesus answered that
all this was in fulfilment of prophecy, and if these should hold their peace, the very stones
would cry out. God’s word must be fulfilled, that the proclamation of the Saviour’s coming
should be given to all peoples, tongues, and nations.

To William Miller and his co-laborers it was given to preach the warning in America. This country
became the center of the great Advent Movement. It was here that the prophecy of the first
angel’s message had its most direct fulfilment. The writings of Miller and his associates were
carried to distant lands. Wherever missionaries had penetrated in all the world, were sent
the glad tidings of Christ’s speedy return. Far and wide spread the message of the everlasting
gospel, “Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment is come.”

The testimony of the prophecies which seemed to point to the coming of Christ in the spring
of 1844, took deep hold of the minds of the people. As the message went from State to State,
there was everywhere awakened wide-spread interest. Many were convinced that the arguments
from the prophetic periods were correct, and sacrificing their pride of opinion, they joyfully
received the truth. Some ministers laid aside their sectarian views and feelings, left their
salaries and their churches, and united in proclaiming the coming of Jesus. There were comparatively
few ministers, however, who would accept this message; therefore it was largely committed to
humble laymen. Farmers left their fields, mechanics their tools, traders their merchandise,
professional men their positions; and yet the number of workers was small in comparison with
the work to be accomplished. The condition of an ungodly church and a world lying in wickedness,
burdened the souls of the true watchmen, and they willingly endured toil, privation, and suffering,
that they might call men to repentance unto salvation. Though opposed by Satan, the work went
steadily forward, and the advent truth was accepted by many thousands.

Everywhere the searching testimony was heard, warning sinners, both worldlings and church-members,
to flee from the wrath to come. Like John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, the preachers
laid the axe at the root of the tree, and urged all to bring forth fruit meet for repentance.
Their stirring appeals were in marked contrast to the assurances of peace and safety that were
heard from popular pulpits; and wherever the message was given, it moved the people. The simple,
direct testimony of the Scriptures, set home by the power of the Holy Spirit, brought a weight
of conviction which few were able wholly to resist. Professors of religion were roused from
their false security. They saw their backslidings, their worldliness and unbelief, their pride
and selfishness. Many sought the Lord with repentance and humiliation. The affections that
had so long clung to earthly things they now fixed upon heaven. The Spirit of God rested upon
them, and with hearts softened and subdued they joined to sound the cry, “Fear God, and give
glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment is come.”

Sinners inquired with weeping, “What must I do to be saved?” Those whose lives had been marked
with dishonesty were anxious to make restitution. All who found peace in Christ longed to see
others share the blessing. The hearts of parents were turned to their children, and the hearts
of children to their parents. The barriers of pride and reserve were swept away. Heartfelt
confessions were made, and the members of the household labored for the salvation of those
who were nearest and dearest. Often was heard the sound of earnest intercession. Everywhere
were souls in deep anguish, pleading with God. Many wrestled all night in prayer for the assurance
that their own sins were pardoned, or for the conversion of their relatives or neighbors.

All classes flocked to the Adventist meetings. Rich and poor, high and low, were, from various
causes, anxious to hear for themselves the doctrine of the second advent. The Lord held the
spirit of opposition in check while His servants explained the reasons of their faith. Sometimes
the instrument was feeble; but the Spirit of God gave power to His truth. The presence of holy
angels was felt in these assemblies, and many were daily added to the believers. As the evidences
of Christ’s soon coming were repeated, vast crowds listened in breathless silence to the solemn
words. Heaven and earth seemed to approach each other. The power of God was felt upon old and
young and middle-aged. Men sought their homes with praises upon their lips, and the glad sound
rang out upon the still night air. None who attended those meetings can ever forget those scenes
of deepest interest.

The proclamation of a definite time for Christ’s coming called forth great opposition from
many of all classes, from the minister in the pulpit down to the most reckless, Heaven-daring
sinner. But God’s all-seeing eye read their hearts. They did not wish to hear of Christ’s coming
to judge the world in righteousness. They had been unfaithful servants, their works would not
bear the inspection of the heart-searching God, and they feared to meet their Lord. Like the
Jews at the time of Christ’s first advent, they were not prepared to welcome Jesus. They not
only refused to listen to the plain arguments from the Bible, but ridiculed those who were
looking for the Lord. Satan and his angels exulted, and flung the taunt in the face of Christ
and holy angels, that His professed people had so little love for Him that they did not desire
His appearing.

“No man knoweth the day nor the hour,” was the argument most often brought forward by rejecters
of the advent faith. The scripture is, “Of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels
of heaven, but My Father only.”(610) A clear and harmonious explanation of this text was given
by those who were looking for the Lord, and the wrong use made of it by their opponents was
clearly shown. The words were spoken by Christ in that memorable conversation with His disciples
upon Olivet, after He had for the last time departed from the temple. The disciples had asked
the question, “What shall be the sign of Thy coming, and of the end of the world?” Jesus gave
them signs, and said, “When ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the
doors.”(611) One saying of the Saviour must not be made to destroy another. Though no man knoweth
the day nor the hour of His coming, we are instructed and required to know when it is near.
We are further taught that to disregard His warning, and refuse or neglect to know when His
advent is near, will be as fatal for us as it was for those who lived in the days of Noah not
to know when the flood was coming. And the parable in the same chapter, contrasting the faithful
and the unfaithful servant, and giving the doom of him who said in his heart, “My Lord delayeth
His coming,” shows in what light Christ will regard and reward those whom He finds watching,
and teaching His coming, and those denying it. Ye are all the children of light, and the children
of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness.”(614)

Thus it was shown that Scripture gives no warrant for men to remain in ignorance concerning
the nearness of Christ’s coming. But those who desired only an excuse to reject the truth closed
their ears to this explanation; and the words, “No man knoweth the day nor the hour,” continued
to be echoed by the bold scoffer, and even by the professed minister of Christ. As the people
were roused, and began to inquire the way of salvation, religious teachers stepped in between
them and the truth, seeking to quiet their fears by falsely interpreting the word of God. Unfaithful
watchmen united in the work of the great deceiver, crying, Peace, peace, when God had not spoken
peace. Like the Pharisees in Christ’s day, many refused to enter the kingdom of heaven themselves,
and those who were entering in, they hindered. The blood of these souls will be required at
their hand.

The most humble and devoted in the churches were usually the first to receive the message.
Those who studied the Bible for themselves could not but see the unscriptural character of
the popular views of prophecy; and wherever the people were not controlled by the influence
of the clergy, wherever they would search the word of God for themselves, the advent doctrine
needed only to be compared with the Scriptures to establish its divine authority.

Many were persecuted by their unbelieving brethren. In order to retain their position in the
church, some consented to be silent in regard to their hope; but others felt that loyalty to
God forbade them thus to hide the truths which He had committed to their trust. Not a few were
cut off from the fellowship of the church for no other reason than expressing their belief
in the coming of Christ. When there was a general rejection of the message by the churches,
angels turned away in sadness. But there were many who had not yet been tested in regard to
the advent truth. Many were misled by husbands, wives, parents, or children, and were made
to believe it a sin even to listen to such heresies as were taught by the Adventists. Angels
were bidden to keep faithful watch over these souls; for another light was yet to shine upon
them from the throne of God.

With unspeakable desire those who had received the message watched for the coming of their
Saviour. The time when they expected to meet Him was at hand. They approached this hour with
a calm solemnity. They rested in sweet communion with God, an earnest of the peace that was
to be theirs in the bright hereafter. None who experienced this hope and trust can forget those
precious hours of waiting. For some weeks preceding the time, worldly business was for the
most part laid aside. The sincere believers carefully examined every thought and emotion of
their hearts as if upon their death-beds and in a few hours to close their eyes upon earthly
scenes. There was no making of “ascension robes;”(616) but all felt the need of internal evidence
that they were prepared to meet the Saviour; their white robes were purity of soul,—characters
cleansed from sin by the atoning blood of Christ. Would that there was still with the professed
people of God the same spirit of heart-searching, the same earnest, determined faith. Had they
continued thus to humble themselves before the Lord, and press their petitions at the mercy-seat,
they would be in possession of a far richer experience than they now have. There is too little
prayer, too little real conviction of sin, and the lack of living faith leaves many destitute
of the grace so richly provided by our Redeemer.

God designed to prove His people. His hand covered a mistake in the reckoning of the prophetic
periods. Adventists did not discover the error, nor was it discovered by the most learned of
their opponents. The latter said: “Your reckoning of the prophetic periods is correct. Some
great event is about to take place; but it is not what Mr. Miller predicts; it is the conversion
of the world, and not the second advent of Christ.”(617)

The time of expectation passed, and Christ did not appear for the deliverance of His people.
Those who with sincere faith and love had looked for their Saviour, experienced a bitter disappointment.
Yet the purposes of God were being accomplished: He was testing the hearts of those who professed
to be waiting for His appearing. There were among them many who had been actuated by no higher
motive than fear. Their profession of faith had not affected their hearts or their lives. When
the expected event failed to take place, these persons declared that they were not disappointed;
they had never believed that Christ would come. They were among the first to ridicule the sorrow
of the true believers.

But Jesus and all the heavenly host looked with love and sympathy upon the tried and faithful
yet disappointed ones. Could the veil separating the visible from the invisible world have
been swept back, angels would have been seen drawing near to these steadfast souls, and shielding
them from the shafts of Satan.

21. A WARNING REJECTED.

In preaching the doctrine of the second advent, William Miller and his associates had labored
with the sole purpose of arousing men to a preparation for the judgment. They had sought to
awaken professors of religion to the true hope of the church, and to their need of a deeper
Christian experience; and they labored also to awaken the unconverted to the duty of immediate
repentance and conversion to God. “They made no attempt to convert men to a sect or party in
religion. Hence they labored among all parties and sects, without interfering with their organization
or discipline.”(618)

“In all my labors,” said Miller, “I never had the desire or thought to establish any separate
interest from that of existing denominations, or to benefit one at the expense of another.
I thought to benefit all. Supposing that all Christians would rejoice in the prospect of Christ’s
coming, and that those who could not see as I did would not love any the less those who should
embrace this doctrine, I did not conceive there would ever be any necessity for separate meetings.
My whole object was a desire to convert souls to God, to notify the world of a coming judgment,
and to induce my fellow-men to make that preparation of heart which will enable them to meet
their God in peace. The great majority of those who were converted under my labors united with
the various existing churches.”(619)

As his work tended to build up the churches, it was for a time regarded with favor. But as
ministers and religious leaders decided against the advent doctrine, and desired to suppress
all agitation of the subject, they not only opposed it from the pulpit, but denied their members
the privilege of attending preaching upon the second advent, or even of speaking of their hope
in the social meetings of the church. Thus the believers found themselves in a position of
great trial and perplexity. They loved their churches, and were loath to separate from them;
but as they saw the testimony of God’s word suppressed, and their right to investigate the
prophecies denied, they felt that loyalty to God forbade them to submit. Those who sought to
shut out the testimony of God’s word, they could not regard as constituting the church of Christ,
“the pillar and ground of the truth.” Hence they felt themselves justified in separating from
their former connection. In the summer of 1844 about fifty thousand withdrew from the churches.

About this time a marked change was apparent in most of the churches throughout the United
States. There had been for many years a gradual but steadily increasing conformity to worldly
practices and customs, and a corresponding decline in real spiritual life; but in that year
there were evidences of a sudden and marked declension in nearly all the churches of the land.
While none seemed able to suggest the cause, the fact itself was widely noted and commented
upon, by both the press and the pulpit.

At a meeting of the presbytery of Philadelphia, Mr. Barnes, author of a commentary widely used,
and pastor of one of the leading churches in that city, “stated that he had been in the ministry
for twenty years, and never, till the last communion, had he administered the ordinance without
receiving more or less into the church. But now there are no awakenings, no conversions, not
much apparent growth in grace in professors, and none come to his study to converse about the
salvation of their souls. With the increase of business, and the brightening prospects of commerce
and manufacture, there is an increase of worldly-mindedness. Thus it is with all the denominations.”(620)

