PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 103.

September 3, 1892.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOT GOING AWAY FOR THE HOLIDAYS.

Cookson Gaze, Q.C. Because MARIA votes Eastbourne vulgar, and the girls (sorry now I sent them
to that finishing-school at Clapham) laugh so consumedly whenever I open my mouth to address
a native if we go to Trouville or Dinard.

C. Jumper. Because the Governor thinks three days in the year enough for anybody.

Eastend Dr. Because that fiver will just give little SALLY the breath of sea-air she wants,
and she'll never make a good cure unless she has it.

Reg. Rake. Because wife says she shall certainly accompany me.

Barmaid. Because I've just been ill for a fortnight from overwork, and the Company say they
can't give any more leave.

Eastend Clergyman (of any church.) Because there are hundreds who want it more than I do, and
I must help them to get a change first.

Major Hornblower. Because MACCRACSHOTT (the only man who has asked me) was in the smoking-room
the night I was fool enough to tell that Snipe and Rhinoceros Story of PEYTON's in the first
person.

Quiverful. Because there's another pair.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH ON AN OLD CRICKETER'S TOMBSTONE.--"Out at 70."

       *       *       *       *       *

MUSICAL NOTES.

Popping a Question.--The Daily News, in its last week's "Music and Musicians," informs us that
"Mr. CHAPPELL has now definitely decided that the season of Monday Popular Concerts shall this
year commence on a Tuesday." Sure then it must be Mister O'CHAPPELL, the CHAPPELL by the hill-side,
who arranges to have his first "Monday Pop" on a Tuesday? If he be going out shooting on his
own native heath, his name O'CHAPPELL, then there's no reason why he shouldn't have his first
pop on a Tuesday, only it couldn't be his Monday Pop, could it now? Or if he drinks Mr. P.'s
health in Pommery '80 (grand vin!), or let's say Poppery '80, he could do so on a Tuesday,
only it would no longer be the "Monday Pop." That's all. Sure 'tis mighty confusing and upsets
the week entirely. If Tuesday is to have all the Pop, what's to become of Monday? For further
particulars inquire at the Pop-shop, Bond Street.

The next great Musical Event is at the Gloucester Festival--it is Dr. HUBERT PARRY "on the
Job." This, though the work of a thoroughly English Composer, may yet be considered as an "Article
de Parry."

       *       *       *       *       *

"MARS IN OPPOSITION."--"Mother says I mustn't."

       *       *       *       *       *

THIS PICTURE AND THAT.

(EXTRACTS FROM THE DIARY OF A LOVER OF THE BEAUTIFUL.)

First Extract.--Really an excellent notion to buy an estate, instead of picking up what Mr.
RUDYARD KIPLING calls a "smeared thing." Got one, too, pretty cheap. Twenty miles from a railway
station, but so much the better. RUSKIN hates railway stations, and so do I. Never can make
them look picturesque. The Agent tells me my place is famous for its sunsets; also good moonlight
effects on occasions. Pretty village, too, in the background. Altogether, most satisfactory.
After all, Nature is much better than Art.

Second Extract.--Dullerton-on-the-Slush is a charming spot, but it has its drawbacks. Pretty,
but damp. Fog interferes a good deal with the sunsets, and hides the moon at the wrong moment.
Village deliciously out of repair. But tenants unreasonable. Offered to put up some red brick
roofs for them, which would have looked charming, but they insist upon having slates. Wish
they would consent to having a few cows in the fields, but they say they prefer pigstyes. Have
consulted a builder and a gardener, and they think that they could "run up" a stye between
them, and cover it over with shrubs. Tenants object. They say the pigs would not like it, and
might eat the shrubs with fatal results. All this annoying, but still the view from my dining-room
window charming. It reminds me not a little of CONSTABLE, LINNELL, not to say Old CROME.

Third Extract.--Further troubles. Tenants are really very disagreeable, and they have no feeling
for Art. They have cut down a lot of ornamental trees, and they won't grow the right sort of
crops,--I mean from a picturesque point of view. As agriculturists they may be all right, but
that's not my point. I did not buy the estate to try how "roots" would thrive. Then they will
burn weeds, and hang out clothes to dry--clothes without any regard to contrast of colour.
Eyesores meet me everywhere. I am really not sure whether I acted wisely in trusting to a House-agent
instead of a Picture-dealer. "Pictures by Nature" are not as reliable as they should be.

Fourth Extract.--This is really too bad! A perambulating Circus has pitched its tent on the
Village Green! When I say tent, I make a mistake; it is a beastly ugly iron thing, that looks
simply hideous, and from the durable stoutness of its construction, it evidently is going to
be a fixture for some time. My tenants support the Circus people, and my Agent tells me, that
if I interfere, my life will be made a burden to me. It appears my tenants are "a very unruly
lot when they are irritated." Pleasant!

Fifth Extract.--The Circus won't go. And now I find I can't get any of my rents. My agent tells
me, that my tenants never would settle with their last landlord. Besides, they expect me to
pay for the damage done to their dwellings by the floods. They say it was my fault, because
I would put up a bank and plantation in my back garden. Only light in the general gloom is,
the prospect my Agent holds out to me of getting rid of the property for me to another lover
of the picturesque. Scarcely fair; but after all, or rather before all, must take care of Number
One.

Last Extract.--Hurray! Sold my estate to another fellow. However, on looking over my accounts,
I fancy I should have found it cheaper if, in the first instance, I had bought a chromo lithograph!

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH.--An Alpining Traveller sends us, on the "Bär" Hotel lately destroyed at Grindelwald,
the following adapted and reversified quotation:--

  "Good-bye to the Bär--
  And it's moaning" we are!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SONGS OUT OF SEASON.

NO. I.--DISORGANISED.

  Still in London now you'll find me,
    Still detained against my will;
  And I wish, distinctly, mind me,
    To accentuate the "still;"
  It's a sort of consolation,
    As I sit, and fume, and frown,
  That the greatest botheration
    Of my life is out of town.

  He who used to grind "She Wore a
    Wreath of Roses" every day,
  And "Selections from Dinorah,"
    And--"Ta-ra-ra-Boom-de-ay."
  With his execrable smiling,
    And exasperating din,
  Must, I needs infer, be riling
    Some one else with grind and grin.

  He who seemed, in fact, delighted,
    And a kiss--the fiend!--would blow,
  When I got a bit excited,
    And exclaimed "Al Diavolo!"
  Who, with unabashed assurance,
    Only beamed the more, and kissed,
  If, incensed beyond endurance,
    In his face I shook my fist.

  He has earned his little outing,
    This excruciating cove,
  And his instrument is flouting
    Bath, or Scarborough, or Hove.
  For the moment I can get a
    Peaceful interim, and free--
  But he cherishes vendetta,
    This Italian count, to me.

  Yes! Perhaps, indeed, 'twere kinder,
    Had he ne'er relaxed his track;
  He'll return, that grinning grinder,
    Reinvigorated, back!
  Then, as I remarked before, a
    Spell of doom for me remains,
  With "Selections from Dinorah,"
    And his other worse refrains.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHY I DON'T GO OUT OF TOWN, FOR THE AUTUMN?--Because I've been pretty well everywhere, but
always quite well in London.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GERMAN WATERS.

  A promenade with tongues alive
    That every phrase of OLLENDORFF use;
  And "Luther's Hymn" at half-past five
    To drag you from the arms of Morpheus;
  Fat Germans in their awful "Fracks,"
    Pale Frenchmen, too, a bit décolletés,
  And dapper Britons with attacks
    Of livers and digestions faulty.

  A garden fair with "Quellen" foul--
    Ach, Himmel! How they taste those "Quellen"!
  Then rolls and coffee, next a prowl
    Among the shops with JANE or ELLEN;
  The mid-day meal at table d'hôte,
    All windows closed--a climate hellish!--
  With dishes too crackjaw to quote,
    And sometimes difficult to relish.

  An afternoon of drowsy drives--
    How these poor foreigners love driving
  To places where, when one arrives,
    There's nought for which it's worth arriving!--
  A "Belvedere"--like Primrose Hill,
     A "Gartenhaus," tobacco-scented;
  Yet there they smoke, and moon, and swill,
    Quite adipose, and self-contented.

  A "Kursaal," very large, and fine;
    A Theatre, small, and shabby-splendid;
  More beer, more music, ditto wine
    (This latter can be much commended).
  The Military (each salutes!)
    With HANNCHEN on their arm or MARIE;
  I wonder where they get those boots--
    I mean, of course, the Military.

  Lawn-Tennis and an "English Club,"
    Frequented now by Lords and Princes,
  Where every snobling likes to rub
    His elbows with a Peer, who winces;
  The tittle-tattle of the cliques,
    Some half-proposals for our daughters--
  Such is the life that makes for weeks
    A fortune--for the German Waters!

       *       *       *       *       *

CHOOSING HIS WORDS.

(MADE IN GERMANY.)

According to the Hochliche Zeitung, His Imperial Majesty said that although the sky was apparently
cloudless, the atmosphere might be charged with electricity. He knew what that electricity
denoted. There were thunderbolts in the clouds and thunderbolts on earth. Those on earth meant
war and invasion. He warned those who threatened the Fatherland, that there were a million
of swords ready to spring forth from a million of scabbards. It was well enough to be neighbourly
when those who lived in your vicinity were benevolently inclined. But when they showed a disposition
to be offensive, then it was necessary to sharpen your swords and keep your power dry. They
had already conquered France, and were not afraid of Russia. Besides, the Army contained young
soldiers who would be the better for a real campaign. He himself had no objection to visiting
Paris and St. Petersburg, as a German Emperor should--at the head of a German Army. Still he
might again remark, it was splendid weather, he saw nothing but blue sky.

According to the Nichtgeboren Zeitung, His Imperial Majesty said that, although the sky was
apparently cloudless, he recognised dangers a-head. He was willing to put himself forward as
the Leader of the toilers. It was their duty to secure the best possible constitution, and
then to force that constitution upon all neighbouring people, if needs be, at the point of
the bayonet. He was not an alarmist, and said exactly what he meant. He had no wish to beat
about the bush. War was the Hand-servant of Peace, and the sooner that servant came back the
better. He did not wish to threaten, but he told Russia and France that Germany was ready to
begin, when and where they chose to meet him. But he might again remark it was splendid weather,
and he saw nothing but blue sky.

Authorised Version (all others declared to be misleading and inaccurate).--His Imperial Majesty
merely observed that it was a fine day.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON BOARD A YACHT.--The conversation at lunch-time had turned on recent publications. A learned
Theban from Oxford inquired of the Skipper, if he had seen the "Rig-Veda." "What sort of Rig's
that?" asked the Skipper, a bit puzzled. But the Oxonian wisely declined a rigmarole explanation,
and told him that all further inquiries must be made to Professor MAX MÜLLER.

       *       *       *       *       *

FEELING THEIR WAY.

(A STUDY IN THE ART OF GENTEEL CONVERSATION.)

    SCENE--The Drawing-room of a Margate Hotel. Time--evening.
    Mrs. ARDLEIGH (of Balham), and Mrs. ALLBUTT (of
    Brondesbury), are discovered in the midst of a conversation,
    in which each is anxious both to impress the other, and
    ascertain how far she is a person to be cultivated. At
    present, they have not got beyond the discovery of a common
    bond in Cookery.

Mrs. Allbutt. You have the yolks of two eggs, I must tell you; squeeze the juice of half a
lemon into it, and, when you boil the butter in the pan, make a paste of it with dry flour.

Mrs. Ardleigh. It sounds delicious--but you never can trust a Cook to carry out instructions
exactly.

Mrs. All. I never do. Whenever I want to have anything specially nice for my husband, I make
a point of seeing to it myself. He appreciates it. Now some men, if you cook for them, never
notice whether it's you or the Cook. My husband does.

Mrs. Ard. I wonder how you find time to do it. I'm sure I should never--

Mrs. All. Oh, it takes time, of course--but what does that matter when you've nothing to do?
Did I mention just a small pinch of Cayenne pepper?--because that's a great improvement!

Mrs. Ard. I tell you what I like Cayenne pepper with, better than anything--and that's eggs.

Mrs. All. (with elegant languor). I hardly ever eat an egg. Oysters, now, I'm very fond of--fried,
that is.

Mrs. Ard. They're very nice done in the real shells. Or on scollops. We have silver--or rather--(with
a magnanimous impulse to tone down her splendour), silver-plated ones.

Mrs. All. How funny--so have we! (Both women feel an increase of liking for one another.) I
like them cooked in milk, too.

    [The first barrier being satisfactorily passed, they proceed,
    as usual, to the subject of ailments.

Mrs. Ard. My doctor does do me good, I must say--he never lets me get ill. He just sees your
liver's all right, and then he feeds you up.

Mrs. All. That's like my doctor; he always tells me, if he didn't keep on constantly building
me up, I should go all to pieces in no time. That's how I come to be here. I always run down
at the end of every Season.

Mrs. Ard. (feeling that Mrs. ALLBUTT can't be "anybody very particular" after all). What--to
Margate? Fancy! Don't you find you get tired of it? I should.

Mrs. All. (with dignity). I didn't say I always went to Margate. On the contrary I have never
been here before, and shouldn't be here now, if my doctor hadn't told me it was my only chance.

Mrs. Ard. (reassured). I only came down here on my little girl's account. One of those nasty
croopy coughs, you know, and hoops with it. But she's almost well already. I will say it's
a wonderful air. Still, the worst of Margate is, one isn't likely to meet a soul one knows!

Mrs. All. Well, that's the charm of it--to me. One has enough of that during the Season.

Mrs. Ard. (recognising the superiority of this view). Indeed one has. What a whirl it has been
to be sure!

Mrs. All. The Season? Why, I never remember one with so little doing. Most of the best houses
closed--hardly a single really smart party--one or two weddings--and that's positively all!

Mrs. Ard. (slightly crushed, in spite of a conviction that--socially speaking--Balham has been
rather more brilliant than usual this year.) Yes, that's very true. I suppose the Elections
have put a stop to most things?

