Meanwhile, the princess Budour abode in the Ebony Islands, whilst the folk would point to her
and say, 'Yonder is King Armanous's son-in-law;' and every night she lay with Heyat en Nufous,
to whom she made moan of her longing for her husband Kemerezzeman, weeping and describing to
her his beauty and grace and yearning to enjoy him, though but in a dream.  And bytimes she
would repeat these verses:

God knows that, since my severance from thee, full sore I've
     wept, So sore that needs my eyes must run for very tears in
     debt.
"Have patience," quoth my censurer, "and thou shalt win them
     yet," And I, "O thou that blamest me, whence should I
     patience get?"

All this time, Kemerezzeman abode with the gardener, weeping and repeating verses night and
day, bewailing the seasons of enjoyment and the nights of delight, whilst the gardener comforted
him with the assurance that the ship would set sail for the land of the Muslims at the end
of the year.  One day, he saw the folk crowding together and wondered at this; but the gardener
came in to him and said, 'O my son, give over work for to-day neither water the trees; for
it is a festival day, on which the folk visit one another.  So rest and only keep thine eye
on the garden, whilst I go look after the ship for thee; for yet but a little while and I send
thee to the land of the Muslims.'  So saying, he went out, leaving Kemerezzeman alone in the
garden, who fell to musing upon his condition, till his courage gave way and the tears streamed
from his eyes.  He wept till he swooned away, and when he recovered, he rose and walked about
the garden pondering what fate had done with him and bewailing his long estrangement from those
he loved.  As he went thus, absorbed in melancholy thought, his foot stumbled and he fell on
his face, striking his forehead against the stump of a tree.  The blow cut it open and his
blood ran down and blent with his tears.  He rose and wiping away the blood, dried his tears
and bound his forehead with a piece of rag; then continued his melancholy walk about the garden.
Presently, he saw two birds quarrelling on a tree, and one of them smote the other on the neck
with its beak and cut off its head, with which it flew away, whilst the slain bird's body fell
to the ground before Kemerezzeman.  As it lay, two great birds flew down and alighting, one
at the head and the other at the tail of the dead bird, drooped their wings over it and bowing
their heads towards it, wept; and when Kemerezzeman saw them thus bewail their mate, he called
to mind his wife  and father and wept also.  Then he saw them dig a grave and bury the dead
bird; after which they flew away, but presently returned with the murderer and alighting on
the grave, stamped on him till they killed him.  Then they rent his belly and tearing out his
entrails, poured the blood on the grave.  Moreover, they stripped off his skin and tearing
his flesh in pieces, scattered it hither and thither.  All this while Kemerezzeman was watching
them and wondering; but presently, chancing to look at the dead bird's crop, he saw therein
something gleaming.  So he opened it and found the talisman that had been the cause of his
separation from his wife.  At this sight, he fell down in a swoon for joy; and when he revived,
he said, 'Praised be God!  This is a good omen and a presage of reunion with my beloved.' 
Then he examined the jewel and passed it over his eyes; after which he bound it to his arm,
rejoicing in coming good, and walked about, awaiting the gardener's return, till nightfall;
when, as he came not, he lay down and slept in his wonted place.  At daybreak he rose and girding
himself with a cord of palm-fibre, took hoe and basket and went out to his work in the garden.
Presently, he came to a carob-tree and struck the hoe into its roots.  The blow resounded [as
if it had fallen on metal]; so he cleared away the earth and discovered a trap-door of brass.
He raised the trap and found a winding stair, which he descended and came to an ancient vault
of the time of Aad and Themoud,[FN#49]  hewn out of the rock.  Round the vault stood many brazen
vessels of the bigness of a great oil-jar, into one of which he put his hand and found it full
of red and shining gold; whereupon he said to himself, 'Verily, the days of weariness are past
and joy and solace are come!'  Then he returned to the garden and replacing the trap-door,
busied himself in tending the trees till nightfall, when the gardener came back and said to
him, 'O my son, rejoice in a speedy return to thy native land, for the merchants are ready
for the voyage and in three days' time the ship will set sail for the City of Ebony, which
is the first of the cities of the Muslims; and thence thou must travel by land six months'
journey till thou come to the Islands of Khalidan, the dominions of King Shehriman.' At this
Kemerezzeman rejoiced and repeated the following verses:

Forsake not a lover unused aversion from thee, Nor punish the
     guiltless with rigour and cruelty.
Another, when absence was long, had forgotten thee And changed
     from his faith and his case; not so with me.

Then he kissed the gardener's hand, saying, 'O my father, even as thou hast brought me glad
tidings, so I also have great good news for thee,' and told him of his discovery in the garden;
whereat the gardener rejoiced and said, 'O my son, fourscore years have I dwelt in this garden
and have never chanced on aught; whilst thou, who hast not sojourned with me a year, hast discovered
this thing; wherefore it is God's gift to thee, for the cesser of thine ill fortune, and will
aid thee to rejoin thy folk and foregather with her thou lovest.'  'Not so,' answered Kemerezzeman,
'it must be shared between us.'  Then he carried him to the underground chamber and showed
him the gold, which was in twenty jars.  So he took ten and the gardener ten, and the latter
said to him, 'O my son, fill thyself jars with the olives that grow in the garden, for they
are not found but in our land and are sought after; the merchants carry them to all parts and
they are called Asafiri[FN#50] olives.  Lay the gold in the jars and cover it with olives:
then stop them and cover them and take them with thee in the ship.'  So Kemerezzeman took fifty
jars and laying in each somewhat of the gold, filled it up with olives. At the bottom of one
of the jars he laid the talisman, then stopped and covered the jars and sat down to talk with
the gardener, making sure of speedy reunion with his own people and saying in himself, 'When
I come to the Ebony Islands, I will journey thence to my father's country and enquire for my
beloved Budour.  I wonder whether she turned back to her own land or journeyed on to my father's
country or whether there befell her any accident by the way.'  And he repeated the following
verses:

Love in my breast they lit and passed away forthright: Far
     distant is the land that holds my soul's delight.
Far, far from me the camp and those that dwell therein; No
     visitation-place again shall us unite.
They made mine eyes run down with tears of love laid waste; My
     lids for lack of them brim over day and night.

Then he told the gardener what he had seen pass between the birds, whereat he wondered; and
they both lay down and slept till the morning.  The gardener awoke sick and abode thus two
days; but on the third day, his sickness increased on him, till they despaired of his life
and Kemerezzeman grieved sore for him. Meanwhile, the captain and sailors came and enquired
for the gardener.  Kemerezzeman told them that he was sick, and they said, 'Where is the young
man that is minded to go with us to the Ebony Islands?'  'He is your servant,' answered the
prince and bade them carry the jars of olives to the ship.  So they transported them to the
ship, saying, 'Make haste, for the wind is fair;' and he answered, 'I hear and obey.'  Then
he carried his victual on board and returning, to bid the gardener farewell, found him in the
agonies of death.  So he sat down at his head and closed his eyes, and his soul departed his
body; whereupon he laid him out and committed him to the earth to the mercy of God the Most
High.  Then he went down to the port, to embark, but found that the ship had already weighed
anchor and set sail; nor did she cease to cleave the waters, till she disappeared from his
sight.  So he returned to the garden, sorrowful and heavy-hearted, and sitting down, threw
dust on his head and buffeted his face.  Then he rented the garden of its owner and hired a
man to help him tend the trees.  Moreover, he went down to the underground chamber and bringing
up the rest of the gold, stowed it in other fifty jars, which he filled up with olives. Then
he enquired of the ship and was told that it sailed but once a year; at which his affliction
redoubled and he mourned sore for that which had befallen him, above all for the loss of the
princess Budour's talisman, and spent his nights and days weeping and repeating verses.

Meanwhile, the ship sailed with a favouring wind, till it reached the Ebony Islands.  As fate
would have it, the princess Budour was sitting at a window overlooking the sea and saw the
ship cast anchor in the port.  At this sight, her heart throbbed and she mounted and riding
down to the port, with her officers, halted by the ship, whilst the sailors broke out the cargo
and transported the goods to the storehouses; after which she called the captain and asked
what he had with him.  'O King,' answered he, 'I have with me drugs and cosmetics and powders
and ointments and plasters and rich stuffs and Yemen rugs and other costly merchandise, not
to be borne of mule or camel, and all manner essences and spices and perfumes, civet and ambergris
and camphor and Sumatra aloes-wood, and tamarinds and Asafiri olives to boot, such as are rare
to find in this country.'  When she heard talk of Asafiri olives, her heart yearned for them
and she said to the captain, 'How much olives hast thou?'  'Fifty jars full,' answered he.
'Their owner is not with us, but the King shall take what he will of them.'  Quoth she, 'Bring
them ashore, that I may see them.'  So he called to the sailors, who brought her the fifty
jars; and she opened one and looking at the olives, said to the captain, 'I will take the whole
fifty and pay you their value, whatever it may be.'  'By Allah, O my lord,' answered he, 'they
have no value in our country and the fifty jars may be worth some hundred dirhems; but their
owner tarried behind us, and he is a poor man.'  'And what are they worth here?' asked she.
'A thousand dirhems,' replied he.  'I will take them at that price,' quoth she and bade carry
the fifty jars to the palace.  When it was night, she called for a jar of olives and opened
it, there being none present but herself and the princess Heyat en Nufous.  Then, taking a
dish, she turned into it the contents of the jar, when behold there fell out into the dish
with the olives a heap of red gold and she said to Heyat en Nufous, 'This is nought but gold!'
So she sent for the rest of the jars and found each one full of gold and scarce enough olives
in the whole fifty to fill one jar.  Moreover, she sought among the gold and found the talisman,
which she took and examined and knew for that which Kemerezzeman had taken from off the riband
of her trousers; whereupon she cried out for joy and fell down in a swoon.  When she revived,
she said in herself, 'Verily, this talisman was the cause of my separation from my beloved
Kemerezzeman; but now it is an omen of good.'  Then she showed it to Heyat en Nufous and said
to her, 'This was the cause of separation and now, please God, it shall be the cause of reunion.'
As soon as it was day, she seated herself on her throne and sent for the captain, who came
and kissed the ground before her.  Quoth she, 'Where didst thou leave the owner of these olives?'
'O King of the age,' answered he, 'we left him in the land of the Magians and he is a gardener
there.'  'Except thou bring him to me,' said she, 'thou knowest not the harm that awaits thee
and thy ship.'  Then she bade seal up the merchants' storehouses and said to them, 'The owner
of these olives is my debtor; and an ye bring him not to me, I will without fail put you all
to death and confiscate your goods.'  So they all went to the captain and promised him the
hire of the ship, if he would go and return a second time, saying, 'Deliver us from this masterful
tyrant.'  Accordingly, the captain set sail and God decreed him a prosperous voyage, till he
came to the city of the Magians, and landing by night, went up to the garden.  Now the night
was long upon Kemerezzeman, and he sat, bethinking him of his beloved and weeping over what
had befallen him and repeating the following verses:

Full many a night I've passed, whose stars their course did stay,
     A night that seemed of those that will not pass away,
That was, as 'twere, for length the Resurrection-morn, To him
     that watched therein and waited for the day!

At this moment, the captain knocked at the garden-gate, and Kemerezzeman opened and went out
to him, whereupon the sailors seized him and carrying him on board the ship, weighed anchor
forthright.  They sailed on without ceasing days and nights, whilst Kemerezzeman knew not why
they dealt thus with him; but when he questioned them, they replied, 'Thou hast offended against
the lord of the Ebony Islands, the son-in-law of King Armanous, and hast stolen his good, unhappy
wretch that thou art!'  'By Allah,' said he, 'I know not the country nor was I ever there in
all my life!'  However, they fared on with him, till they made the Ebony Islands and landing,
carried him up to the princess Budour, who knew him at sight and said, 'Leave him with the
eunuchs, that they may take him to the bath.'  Then she relieved the merchant of the embargo
and gave the captain a dress of honour and ten thousand dinars; after which, she went in that
night to the princess Heyat en Nufous and told her what had passed, saying, 'Keep thou my counsel,
till I accomplish my purpose and do a thing that shall be recorded and told to kings and commoners
after us.'  Meanwhile, they carried Kemerezzeman to the bath and clad him in a royal habit,
so that, when he came forth, he resembled a willow-wand or a star whose aspect put to shame
both sun and moon, and his life returned to him.  Then he went in to the princess Budour, who,
when she saw him, schooled her heart to patience, till she should have accomplished her purpose,
and bestowed on him slaves and servants, black and white, and camels and mules.  Moreover,
she gave him a treasury of money and advanced him from dignity to dignity, till she made him
treasurer and committed to his charge all the treasures of the state; nor did she leave day
by day to increase his allowances and afford him fresh marks of her favour.  As for Kemerezzeman,
he was at a loss for the reason of all the honour and favour she showed him and gave gifts
and largesse out of the abundance of the wealth he owed to her munificence, devoting himself
in particular to the service of King Armanous, so that he and all the Amirs and people, great
and small, loved him and were wont to swear by his life.  Nevertheless, he ceased not to marvel
at the favour shown him by Budour and said in himself, 'By Allah, there must be a reason for
this affection!  Peradventure, this king favours me thus excessively with some ill purpose
and needs must I therefore crave leave of him to depart his realm.'  So he went in to Budour
and said to her, 'O King, thou hast overwhelmed me with favours, but it will fulfil the measure
of thy bounties if thou wilt take from me all thou hast given and let me depart.' She smiled
and said, 'What makes thee seek to depart and plunge into new perils, whenas thou art in the
enjoyment of the greatest favour and prosperity?'  'O King,' answered Kemerezzeman, 'this favour,
if there be no reason for it, is indeed a wonder of wonders, more by token that thou hast advanced
me to dignities such as befit graybeards, albeit I am but a child.'  'The reason is,' answered
she, 'that I love thee for thine exceeding grace and thy surpassing beauty; and so thou wilt
but grant me my desire of thee, I will advance thee yet further in honour and favour and largesse
and make thee Vizier, for all thy tender age, even as the folk made me Sultan and I no older
than thou; so that nowadays there is nothing strange in the headship of children, and gifted
of God was he who said:

Our time is, meseems, of the lineage of Lot; It craves the
     advancement of younglings, God wot.'

When Kemerezzeman heard this, he was confounded and his cheeks flushed till they seemed on
fire; and he said, 'I reck not of favours that involve the commission of sin; I will live poor
in wealth but rich in virtue and honour.'  Quoth she, 'I am not the dupe of thy scruples, arising
from prudery and coquetry: and God bless him who says:

I mentioned to him the pact of fruition, and he, "How long with
     vexatious discourse wilt thou set upon me?"
I showed him a dinar and straightway he sang out and said, "O
     whither shall one from Fate irresistible flee!"

'O King,' replied Kemerezzeman, 'I have not the wont of these doings, nor have I strength,
who am but of tender years, to bear these heavy burdens, for which elder than I have proved
unable.' She smiled and rejoined, 'Indeed, it is wonderful how error springs from the disorder
of the wit.  Since thou art but a boy, why standest thou in fear of sin or the doing of forbidden
things, seeing that thou art not yet come to years of discretion and the offences of a child
incur neither punishment nor reproof? Verily, thou committest thyself to an argument advanced
but for the sake of contention, and it behoves thee to bow to the ordinance of fruition, which
has been given against thee. Wherefore, henceforward, give over denial and coyness, for the
commandment of God is a foreordained decree:[FN#51] indeed, I have more reason than thou to
fear falling into error; and well-inspired was he who said:

My pintle is big and the little one said unto me, "Tilt boldly
     therewith at my inwards and quit thee thy need."
Quoth I, "'Tis unlawful;" but he, "It is lawful with me;" So to
     it I fell, supporting myself by his rede.'

When Kemerezzeman heard these words, the light in his eyes became darkness and he said, 'O
King, thou hast in thy palace women and female slaves, that have not their like in this age:
may not these suffice thee without me?  Do thy will with them and leave me.'  'Thou speakest
truth,' answered she; 'but it is not with them that one who loves thee can heal himself of
torment and fever; for when tastes and inclinations are corrupted, they hearken to other than
good counsel.  So leave arguing and hear what the poet says:

Seest not the fruits of the market, how of two kinds they be?
     Some are for figs,[FN#52] but more for the fruit of the
     sycamore-tree.[FN#53]

And what another says:

Full many an one, whose ankle-rings are dumb, her girdle sounds;
     So this one is content and that a tale of need must tell.
Thou'dst have me, foolwise, in her charms forget thee. God
     forfend I, that a true believer am, should turn an infidel!
No, by a whisker that makes mock of all her curls, I swear, Nor
     maid nor strumpet from thy side shall me by guile compel!

And a third:

O pearl of loveliness, to love thee is my faith; Yea, and my
     choice of all the faiths that have been aye.
Women I have forsworn, indeed, for thy sweet sake, So that the
     folk avouch I'm grown a monk to-day

And a fourth:

Compare not a wench with a boy and to the spy, Who says to thee,
     "This is wrong," pay thou no heed.
'Twixt a woman whose feet one's lips kiss and a smooth-faced
     fawn, Who kisses the earth, the diff'rence is great indeed.

And a fifth:

My soul be thy ransom!  Indeed, I've chosen thee out with intent,
     Because thou layest no eggs and dost not menstruate.
For, an I inclined to foregather with harlots, upon my faith, The
     wide, wide world for the brats I should get would prove too
     strait.

And a sixth:

Quoth she to me,--and sore enraged for wounded pride was she, For
     she in sooth had bidden me to that which might not be,--
"An if thou swive me not forthright, as one should swive his
     wife, If thou be made a cuckold straight, reproach it not to
     me.
Meseems thy yard is made of wax, for very flaccidness; For, when
     I rub it with my hand, it softens instantly."

And a seventh:

Quoth she (for I to lie with her would not consent), "O fool,
     that followest on thy folly to the extent,
If thou reject my kaze for Kibleh[FN#54] to thy yard, We'll show
     thee one wherewith thou shalt be sure content."

And an eighth:

She proffered me a tender kaze; But I, "I will not swive,"
     replied.
She drew back, saying, "From the truth Needs must he turn who's
     turned aside;[FN#55]
And swiving frontwise in our day Is all abandoned and decried;"
Then turned and showed me, as it were A lump of silver, her
     backside.
"Well done, O mistress mine!  No more Am I in pain for thee," I
     cried,
"Whose poke of all God's openings[FN#56] Is sure the amplest and
     most wide!"

And a ninth:

Men crave forgiveness with uplifted hands; But women pray with
     lifted legs, I trow.[FN#57]
Out on it for a pious piece of work! God shall exalt it to the
     deeps below.[FN#58]

When Kemerezzeman heard these verses and was certified that there was no escaping compliance
with her will, he said, 'O King, if thou must needs have it so, swear to me that thou wilt
use me thus but once, though it avail not to stay thy debauched appetite; and that thou wilt
never again require me of this to the end of time; so it may be God will purge me of the sin.'
'I promise thee that,' replied she, 'hoping that God of His favour will relent towards us and
blot out our mortal sins; for the compass of the Divine forgiveness is not indeed so strait,
but it may altogether embrace us and absolve us of the excess of our transgressions and bring
us to the light of righteousness out of the darkness of error.  As most excellent well saith
the poet:

The folk imagine of us twain an evil thing, I ween, And with
     their hearts and souls, indeed, they do persist therein.
Come, let us justify their thought and free them thus from guilt,
     This once, 'gainst us; and then will we repent us of our
     sin.'

Then she swore to him a solemn oath, by Him whose existence is unconditioned, that this thing
should befall betwixt them but once and never again for all time, and vowed to him that the
desire of him was driving her to death and perdition.  So he went with her, on this condition,
to her privy closet, that she might quench the fire of her passion, saying, 'There is no power
and no virtue save in God the Most High, the Supreme!  This is the ordinance of the All-powerful,
the All-wise!'  And did off his trousers, in the utmost confusion, with the tears running from
his eyes for stress of affright; whereat she smiled and carrying him on to a couch, said to
him, 'After this night, thou shalt see nought that will displease thee.'  Then she turned to
him, kissing and clipping him and twining leg with leg, and said to him, 'Put thy hand, between
my thighs, to that thou wottest of, so haply it may be won to stand up after prostration.'
He wept and said, 'I am not good at aught of this.'  But she said, 'As I live, an thou do as
I bid thee, it shall profit thee!'  So he put out his hand, with a heart on fire for confusion,
and found her thighs fresher than cream and softer than silk.  The touching of them pleasured
him and he moved his hand hither and thither, till he came to a dome abounding in benedictions
and movements and said in himself, 'Belike this king is a hermaphrodite, nor male nor female.'
So he said to her, 'O King, I cannot find that thou hast any manly gear, even as other men;
what then moved thee to do thus?'  When the princess heard this, she laughed till she fell
backward, and said, 'O my beloved, how quickly thou hast forgotten the nights we have lain
together!'  Then she made herself known to him and he knew her for his wife, the Lady Budour,
daughter of King Ghaiour.  So he embraced her and she embraced him and they kissed each other;
then they lay down on the bed of delight, repeating the words of the poet:

Whenas the softness of a shape did bid him to my arms, That, as
     it were a trailing vine with twinings did him ply
And on the hardness of his heart its very softness shed, He
     yielded, though at first he feigned reluctance to comply,
And came, provided with a stock of caution safe and sure, Fearing
     lest, when he did appear, the railers should him spy.
His waist of buttocks maketh moan, that lay upon his feet A very
     camel's load, what time he would a-walking hie.
Girt with his glances' trenchant swords and cuirassed with the
     mail Of his bright locks, as 'twere the dusk new fallen from
     the sky,
His fragrance brought me from afar the news of his approach, And
     forth, as bird let out from cage, to meet my love fled I.
I laid my cheek within his way, beneath his sandal-soles, And lo,
     their dust's collyrium healed the ailment of mine eye!
With an embrace I hoisted up the flag of loves new linked And
     loosed the knot of my delight, that made as 'twould deny.
Then let I call high festival, and gladness, all unmixed With any
     thought of troublousness, came flocking in reply.
The full moon handselled with the stars the teeth, like grains of
     pearl, That on the laughing face of wine now dance, now
     stirless lie.
So in the niche of their delight I gave me up to joys, The
     veriest sinner would repent if he their like might try.
The morning-glories of his face be pledge I'll ne'er, in him,
     Forget the writ that biddeth us One only glorify![FN#59]

Then they told one another all that had befallen them since their separation, after which he
began to upbraid her, saying, 'What moved thee to deal with me as thou hast done this night?'
'Do not reproach me,' replied she; 'for I did this but by way of jest and for increase of pleasure
and gladness.'  When it was morning and the day arose with its light and shone, she sent to
King Armanous and acquainted him with the truth of the case and that she was wife to Kemerezzeman.
Moreover, she told him their story and the manner of their separation and how his daughter
Heyat en Nufous was yet a maid.  He marvelled greatly at their story and bade record it in
letters of gold.  Then he turned to Kemerezzeman and said, 'O king's son, art thou minded to
marry my daughter and become my son-in-law?'  'I must consult the princess Budour,' answered
he; 'for I owe her favour without stint.'  So he took counsel with her and she said, 'This
is well seen; marry her and I will be her handmaid, for I am her debtor for kindness and favour
and good offices, more by token that we are here in her place and that the king her father
has loaded us with benefits.'  When he saw that she inclined to this and was not jealous of
Heyat en Nufous, he agreed with her thereupon and told King Armanous what she had said, whereat
he rejoiced greatly. Then he went out and seating himself in his chair of estate, assembled
all the Viziers and Amirs and chamberlains and grandees, to whom he related the whole story
and acquainted them with his desire to marry his daughter to Kemerezzeman and make him king
in the stead of the princess Budour.  Whereupon said they all, 'Since he is the husband of
the princess Budour, who hath been our Sultan till now, whilst we deemed her King Armanous's
son-in-law, we are all content to have him to Sultan over us and will be his servants, nor
will we swerve from his allegiance.'  At this Armanous rejoiced and summoning Cadis and witnesses
and the chief officers of state, let draw up the contract of marriage between Kemerezzeman
and his daughter, the princess Heyat en Nufous.  Then he held high festival, giving sumptuous
banquets and bestowing costly dresses of honour upon the Amirs and captains; moreover, he gave
alms to the poor and needy and freed the prisoners.  All the folk rejoiced in the coming of
Kemerezzeman to the throne, wishing him abiding glory and prosperity and happiness and renown,
and as soon as he became king, he remitted the customs-dues and released all that remained
in prison.  Thus he abode a long while, ordering himself worthily towards his subjects, and
lived with his wives in peace and happiness and content, lying the night with each of them
in turn.  And indeed all his troubles and afflictions were blotted out from him and he forgot
his father King Shehriman and his former estate of honour and worship with him.

After awhile, God the Most High blessed him with two sons, as they were two shining moons,
the elder, whose name was prince Amjed, by Queen Budour, and the younger, whose name was prince
Asaad and who was comelier than his brother, by Queen Heyat en Nufous.  They were reared in
splendour and delight and were instructed in penmanship and science and the arts of government
and horsemanship and other polite arts and accomplishments, till they attained the extreme
of perfection and the utmost limit of beauty and grace, and both men and women were ravished
by their charms.  They grew up together, till they reached the age of seventeen, and loved
one another so dear that they were never apart, eating and drinking together and sleeping in
one bed; and all the people envied them their beauty and concord.  When they came to man's
estate and were endowed with every perfection, their father was wont, as often as he went on
a journey, to make them sit in his stead by turns in the place of judgment, and each did justice
among the folk one day at a time.  Now, as unalterable fate and foreordained destiny would
have it, Queen Budour fell in love with Asaad, son of Queen Heyat en Nufous, and the latter
became enamoured of Amjed; and each of them used to sport and play with the other's son, kissing
him and straining him to her bosom, whilst each thought that the other's behaviour arose but
from motherly affection.  On this wise, passion got the mastery of the two women's hearts and
they became madly enamoured of the two youths, so that when the other's son came in to either
of them, she would press him to her bosom and long for him never to be parted from her; till,
at last, when waiting grew tedious to them and they found no way to enjoyment, they refused
meat and drink and forewent the solace of sleep.  Presently, the King went out to hunt, bidding
his sons sit to do justice in his stead, each one day in turn, according to their wont.  So
prince Amjed sat on the throne the first day, ordering and forbidding, appointing and deposing,
giving and denying; and Queen Heyat en Nufous took a scroll and wrote to him the following
letter, suing for his favour and discovering to him her passion, in fine, altogether putting
off the mask and giving him to know that she desired to enjoy him.  'From the wretched lover,
the sorrowful severed one, whose youth is wasted in the love of thee and whose torment for
thee is prolonged.  Were I to recount to thee the extent of my affliction and what I suffer
for sadness, the passion that is in my breast and all that I endure for weeping and groaning
and the rending of my sorrowful heart, my unremitting cares and my ceaseless griefs and all
my suffering for severance and sadness and the ardour of desire, no letter could contain it
nor calculation compass it. Indeed, earth and heaven are straitened upon me, and I have no
hope and no trust but in thee.  I am come nigh upon death and suffer the horrors of dissolution;
burning is sore upon me, and the pangs of separation and estrangement.  Were I to set out the
yearnings that possess me, no scrolls would suffice thereto: and of the excess of my affliction
and wasting away, I have made the following verses:

Were I to set down all I feel of heart-consuming dole And all the
     transport and unease that harbour in my soul,
Nor ink nor pen in all the world thereafter would remain, Nor
     aught from east to west were left of paper or of scroll.'

Then she folded up the silken tresses of her hair, whose cost swallowed up treasures, in the
letter, and wrapping it in a piece of rich silk, scented with musk and ambergris, laid it in
a handkerchief; after which she gave it to an eunuch and bade him carry it to prince Amjed.
The eunuch took it, knowing not what the future hid for him, (for He who knoweth the hidden
things ordereth events according to His will,) and going in to the prince, kissed the earth
before him and gave him the letter.  He opened it and reading it, was ware that his father's
wife was in intent an adulteress and a traitress to her husband; whereat he was exceeding wroth
and railed at women and their works, saying, 'May God curse women, the traitresses, that lack
reason and religion!'  Then he drew his sword and said to the eunuch, 'Out on thee, thou wicked
slave!  Dost thou carry adulterous messages for thy lord's wife?  By Allah, there is no good
in thee, O black of hue and heart, O foul of face and nature!'  So saying, he smote him on
the neck and severed his head from his body; then, folding the letter in the handkerchief,
he thrust it into his pocket and went in to his own mother and told her what had passed, reviling
and reproaching her and saying, 'Each one of you is worse than the other; and by God the Great,
did I not fear to transgress against the rights of my father and my brother Asaad, I would
assuredly go in to her and cut off her head, even as I cut off that of her eunuch!'  Then he
went out in a great rage; and when the news reached Queen Heyat en Nufous of what he had done
with her messenger, she reviled him and cursed him and plotted perfidy against him.  He passed
the night, sick with anger and disgust and concern, nor was meat nor drink nor sleep sweet
to him.  Next morning, prince Asaad went out in his turn to rule the folk in his father's stead
and sat in the audience-chamber, judging and administering justice, appointing and deposing,
ordering and forbidding, giving and bestowing, till near the time of afternoon-prayer, when
Queen Budour sent for a crafty old woman and discovering to her what was in her heart, wrote
a letter to prince Asaad, complaining of the excess of her love and longing for him, as follows:
'From her who perisheth for passion and love-longing to the goodliest of mankind in form and
nature, him who is conceited of his own loveliness and glories in his amorous grace, who turneth
away from those that seek to enjoy him and refuseth to show favour unto the lowly and the self-abasing,
him who is cruel and disdainful; from the despairing lover to prince Asaad, lord of surpassing
beauty and excelling grace, of the moon-bright face and the flower-white brow and dazzling
splendour.  This is my letter to him whose love consumes my body and rends my skin and my bones.
Know that my patience fails me and I am at a loss what to do: longing and wakefulness weary
me and sleep and patience deny themselves to me; but mourning and watching stick fast to me
and desire and passion torment me, and the extremes of languor and sickness. Yet may my life
be thy ransom, though it be thy pleasure to slay her who loveth thee, and may God prolong thy
life and preserve thee from every ill!'  After this, she wrote the following verses:

Fate hath so ordered it that I must needs thy lover be, O thou
     whose charms shine as the moon, when at the full is she!
All beauty and all eloquence thou dost in thee contain And over
     all the world of men thou'rt bright and brave to see.
That thou my torturer shouldst be, I am indeed content, So but
     thou wilt one glance bestow, as almous-deed, on me.
Happy, thrice happy is her lot who dieth for thy love! No good is
     there in any one that doth not cherish thee.

And these also:

To thee, O Asaad, of the pangs of passion I complain; Have pity
     on a slave of love, that burns for longing pain.
How long, I wonder, shall the hands of passion sport with me And
     love and dole and sleeplessness consume me, heart and brain?
Whiles do I plain me of a sea within my heart and whiles Of
     flaming; surely, this is strange, O thou my wish and bane!
Give o'er thy railing, censor mine, and set thyself to flee From
     love that maketh eyes for aye with burning tears to rain.
How oft, for absence and desire, I cry, "Alas, my grief!" But all
     my crying and lament in this my case are vain.
Thou hast with rigours made me sick, that passed my power to
     bear: Thou'rt the physician; do thou me with what befits
     assain.
O thou my censurer, forbear to chide me for my case, Lest, of
     Love's cruel malady, perdition thee attain.

Then she scented the letter with odoriferous musk and winding it in the tresses of her hair,
which were of Irak silk, with tassels of oblong emeralds, set with pearls and jewels, delivered
it to the old woman, bidding her carry it to prince Asaad.  She undertook the errand, to pleasure
her, and going in straightway to the prince, found him in his closet and delivered him the
letter; after which she stood waiting for the answer.  When Asaad had read the letter and knew
its purport, he wrapped it up again in the tresses and put it in his pocket, cursing false
women; then, for he was beyond measure wroth, he sprang up and drawing his sword, smote the
old woman on the neck and cut off her head. Then he went in to his mother, Queen Heyat en Nufous,
whom he found lying on her bed, sick for that which had betided her with prince Amjed, and
railed at her and cursed her; after which he left her and betook himself to his brother, to
whom he related what had befallen him with Queen Budour, adding, 'By Allah, O my brother, but
that I feared to grieve thee, I had gone in to her forthright and smitten her head off her
shoulders!'  'By Allah, O my brother,' replied Amjed, 'the like of what hath befallen thee
befell me also yesterday with thy mother Queen Heyat en Nufous.' And he told him what had passed,
adding, 'By Allah, O my brother, nought but respect for thee withheld me from going in to her
and dealing with her even as I dealt with the eunuch!'  They passed the rest of the night in
trouble and affliction, conversing and cursing false women, and agreed to keep the matter secret,
lest their father should hear of it and kill the two women.

On the morrow, the King returned with his suite from hunting and sat awhile in his chair of
estate; after which he dismissed the Amirs and went up to his harem, where he found his two
wives lying on the bed, exceeding sick.  Now they had made a plot against the two princes and
concerted to do away their lives, for that they had exposed themselves before them and feared
to be at their mercy.  When Kemerezzeman saw them on this wise, he said to them, 'What ails
you?'  Whereupon they rose and kissing his hands, answered, perverting the case and saying,
'Know, O King, that thy sons, who have been reared in thy bounty, have played thee false and
outraged thee in the persons of thy wives.'  When he heard this, the light in his eyes became
darkness and his reason fled for the excess of his rage; then said he to them, 'Expound this
thing to me.'  'O King of the age,' answered Budour, 'know that these many days past thy son
Asaad has been wont to send me letters and messages to solicit me to lewdness, and I still
forbade him from this, but he would not be forbidden. When thou wentest forth to hunt, he rushed
in on me, drunk and with a drawn sword in his hand, and smiting my eunuch, slew him. Then he
mounted on my breast, still holding the sword, and I feared lest he should slay me even as
he had slain my eunuch, if I gainsaid him; so he took his will of me by force; and now an thou
do me not justice on him, O King, I will slay myself with my own hand, for I reck not of life
in the world after this foul deed.'  Queen Heyat en Nufous, choking with tears, told him a
like story respecting prince Amjed, after which she fell a- weeping and wailing and said, 'Except
thou avenge me on him, I will tell my father, King Armanous.'  Then they both wept sore before
King Kemerezzeman, who, when he saw their tears and heard their words, concluded that their
story was true and waxing beyond measure wroth, went out, thinking to fall upon his two sons
and put them to death.  On his way he met his father-in-law King Armanous, who hearing of his
return from the chase, had come to salute him and seeing him with the naked sword in his hand
and the blood dripping from his nostrils, for excess of rage, enquired what ailed him.  Kemerezzeman
told him what his sons Amjed and Asaad had done and added, 'I am now going in to them, to slay
them on the foulest wise and make of them the most shameful of examples.'  'O my son,' said
King Armanous, (and indeed he too was wroth with them,) 'thou dost well, and may God not bless
them nor any sons that offend thus against their father's honour!  But, O my son, the proverb
says, "Whoso looks not to the issues, Fortune is no friend to him."  In any case, they are
thy sons, and it befits not that thou put them to death with thine own hand, lest thou drink
of their agony and after repent of having slain them, whenas repentance will avail thee nothing.
Rather do thou send one of thine officers with them into the desert and let him kill them there,
out of thy sight, for, as says the adage, "When the eye sees not, the heart grieves not."'
Kemerezzeman saw his father-in-law's words to be just, so he sheathed his sword and turning
back, sat down upon his throne and called his treasurer, a very old man, versed in affairs
and in the shifts of fortune, to whom he said, 'Go in to my sons Amjed and Asaad; bind fast
their hands behind them and lay them in two chests and set them on a mule.  Then take horse
and carry them into the mid-desert, where do thou put them to death and fill two vials with
their blood and bring them to me in haste.' 'I hear and obey,' answered the treasurer and went
out forthright to do his bidding.  On his way, he met the princes coming out of the palace-vestibule,
for they had donned their richest clothes and were on their way to salute their father and
give him joy of his safe return from the chase.  When he saw them, he laid hands on them, saying,
'O my sons, know that I am but a slave commanded and that your father hath laid a commandment
on me: will ye obey his commandment?'  'Yes,' answered they; whereupon he bound their hands
and laying them in the chests, set the latter on the back of a mule, with which he left the
city and rode into the open country, till near midday, when he halted in a waste and desert
spot and dismounting, set down the two chests.  He opened them and took out Amjed and Asaad;
whom when he saw, he wept sore for their beauty and grace; then drawing his sword, he said
to them, 'O my lords, indeed it irks me to deal so foully by you; but I am to be excused in
this, being but a slave commanded, for that your father King Kemerezzeman hath bidden me strike
off your heads.' 'O Amir,' answered they, 'do the King's bidding, for we submit with patience
to that which God (to whom be ascribed might and majesty) hath decreed to us; and thou art
quit of our blood.' Then they embraced and bade each other farewell, and Asaad said to the
treasurer, 'God on thee, O uncle, spare me the sight of my brother's agony and make me not
drink of his anguish, but kill me first, that it may be the easier for me.'  Amjed said the
like and entreated the treasurer to kill him before Asaad, saying, 'My brother is younger than
I; so make me not taste of his anguish.' And they both wept sore, whilst the treasurer wept
for their weeping, and they said to each other, 'All this comes of the malice of those traitresses,
our mothers; and this is the reward of our forbearance towards them.  But there is no power
and no virtue but in God the Most High, the Supreme!  Verily, we are His and unto Him we return.'
And Asaad embraced his brother, sobbing and repeating the following verses:

O Thou to whom the sad complain, to whom the fearful flee, Thou
     that art evermore prepared for all that is to be,
Lord, there is left me no resource but at Thy door to knock; Yea,
     at whose portal shall I knock, if Thou be deaf to me?
O Thou, the treasures of whose grace are in the one word "Be," Be
     favourable, I beseech, for all good is with Thee!

When Amjed heard his brother's weeping, he wept also and pressed him to his bosom, repeating
the following verses:

O Thou, whose bounties unto me are more than one, I trow, Whose
     favours lavished on my head are countless as the sand,
No blow of all the blows of fate has ever fall'n on me, But I
     have found Thee ready still to take me by the hand.

Then said he to the treasurer, 'I conjure thee by the One God the Omnipotent King and Protector,
kill me before my brother Asaad and allay the fire of my heart!'  But Asaad wept and exclaimed,
'Not so: I will die first;' whereupon said Amjed, 'It were best that we embrace each other,
so the sword may fall upon us and kill us both at one stroke.'  So they embraced, face to face,
and clipped each other straitly, whilst the treasurer bound them fast with cords, weeping the
while.  Then he drew his sword and said to them, 'By Allah, O my lords, it is indeed hard to
me to kill you!  But have ye no last wishes or injunctions that I may fulfil or message that
I may carry?'  'We have no wish,' replied Amjed, 'and my only injunction to thee is that thou
set my brother undermost, that the blow may fall on me first; and when thou hast slain us and
returnest to the King and he asks thee, "What said they before their death?" do thou answer,
"Thy sons salute thee and say to thee, 'Thou knewest not if we were innocent or guilty, yet
hast thou put us to death and hast not certified thyself of our guilt nor looked into our case.'"

'We desire of thee nought but this,' continued Amjed, 'except that thou have patience with
us, whilst I repeat other two lines to my brother.'  Then he wept sore and recited the following
verses:

Examples many, thou and I, We have in kings of days gone by,
How many, alack, have trod this road, Of great and small and low
     and high!

At this the treasurer wept, till his beard was wet, whilst Asaad's eyes filled with tears and
he in turn repeated these verses:

Fate, when the thing itself is past, afflicteth with the trace,
     And weeping is not, of a truth, for body or form or
     face.[FN#60]
What ails the nights?[FN#61] May God blot out our error from the
     nights And may the hand of change bewray and bring them to
     disgrace!
They wreaked their malice to the full on Ibn ez Zubeir[FN#62]
     erst, And on the House and Sacred Stone[FN#63] his safeguard
     did embrace.
Would God, since Kharijeh[FN#64] they took for Amrou's sacrifice,
     They'd ransomed Ali with whome'er they would of all our
     race!

Then, with cheeks stained with thick-coming tears, he recited these also:

The days and nights are fashioned for treachery and despite; Yea,
     they are full of perfidy and knavish craft and sleight.
The mirage is their lustre of teeth, and to their eyes The horror
     of all darkness the kohl that keeps them bright.
My crime against them (hateful their nature is!) is but The
     sword's crime, when the sworder sets on into the fight.

Then he sobbed and said:

O thou that seeketh the worthless world, give ear to me and know
     The very net of ruin it is and quarry of dole and woe;
A stead, whom it maketh laugh to-day, to-morrow it maketh weep:
     Out on it then for a dwelling-place, since it is even so!
Its raids and its onsets are never done, nor can its bondsman win
     To free himself from its iron clutch by dint of stress and
     throe.
How many an one in its vanities hath gloried and taken pride,
     Till froward and arrogant thus he grew and did all bounds
     o'ergo!
Then did she[FN#65] turn him the buckler's back and give him to
     drink therein Full measure and set her to take her wreak of
     the favours she did show.
For know that her blows fall sudden and swift and unawares,
     though long The time of forbearance be and halt the coming
     of fate and slow.
So look to thyself, lest life in the world pass idle and
     profitless by, And see that thou fail not of taking thought
     to the end of all below.
Cast loose from the chains of the love and the wish of the world
     and thou shalt find Guidance and help unto righteousness and
     peace of heart, I trow.

When he had made an end of these verses, he clipped his brother in his arms, till they seemed
as it were one body, and the treasurer, raising his sword, was about to strike them, when,
behold, his horse took fright at the wind of his upraised hand and breaking its tether, fled
into the desert.  Now the horse was worth a thousand dinars and on his back was a splendid
saddle, worth much money: so the treasurer threw down his sword, in great concern, and ran
after him, to catch him.  The horse galloped on, snorting and neighing and pawing the earth
in his fright, till he raised a cloud of dust, and presently coming to a wood, fled into the
midst of it, whither the treasurer followed him.  Now there was in this wood a terrible lion,
foul of face, with eyes that cast forth sparks; his look was grim and his aspect struck terror
into men's souls.  He heard the noise made by the horse and came out to see what was to do.
Presently the treasurer turned and saw the lion making towards him; but found no way of escape,
nor had he his sword with him.  So he said in himself, 'There is no power and no virtue but
in God the Most High, the Supreme!  This stress is come upon me because of Amjed and Asaad;
and indeed this journey was unblest from the first!' Meanwhile Amjed and Asaad were grievously
oppressed by the heat and grew sore athirst, so that their tongues hung out and they cried
for succour; but none came to their relief and they said, 'Would God we were dead and at peace
from this torment!  But we know not whither the treasurer's horse hath fled, that he has gone
and left us bound.  If he would but come back and kill us, it were easier to us than to suffer
this torture.'  'O my brother,' said Asaad, 'be patient and the relief of God (blessed and
exalted be He) will surely come to us; for the horse ran not away save of His favour towards
us, and nought irks us but this thirst.'  So saying, he stretched himself and strained right
and left, till he burst his bonds; then he unbound his brother and taking up the Amir's sword,
said, 'By Allah, we will not go hence, till we know what is come of him!'  So they followed
the track, till it led them to the wood and they said to one another, 'Of a surety, the horse
and the treasurer have not overgone this wood.'  Quoth Asaad, 'Stay thou here, whilst I enter
the wood and search it.'  'I will not let thee go in alone,' answered Amjed. 'We will both
go in; so if we escape, we shall escape together, and if we perish, we shall perish together.'
So they entered both and found the lion standing over the treasurer, who lay like a sparrow
in his grip, calling upon God for help and lifting his hands to heaven.  When Amjed saw this,
he took the sword and running to the lion, smote him between the eyes and laid him dead on
the ground.  The Amir arose, marvelling at this, and seeing Amjed and Asaad his lord's sons,
standing there, cast himself at their feet and exclaimed, 'By Allah, O my lords, it were foul
wrong in me to put you to death!  May the man never be who would kill you!  Indeed, I will
ransom you with my life.'  Then he rose and embracing them, enquired how they had loosed their
bonds and come thither, whereupon they told him how the bonds of one of them had fallen loose
and he had unbound the other, that they might quit their intent, and how they had followed
his track till they came upon him.  He thanked them for their deed and went with them forth
of the wood, where they said to him, 'O uncle, do our father's bidding.'  'God forbid,' answered
he, 'that I should draw near to you with hurt!  I mean to take your clothes and clothe you
with mine; then will I fill two vials with the lion's blood and go back to the King and tell
him I have put you to death.  But as for you, fare ye forth into the lands, for God's earth
is wide; and know, O my lords, that it irks me to part from you.'  At this, they all fell a-weeping;
then the two youths put off their clothes and the treasurer covered them with his own. Moreover,
he filled two vials with the lion's blood and making two parcels of the princes' clothes, set
them before him on his horse's back.  Then he took leave of them and making his way back to
the city, went in to King Kemerezzeman and kissed the earth before him.  The King saw him pale
and troubled and deeming this came of the slaughter of the two princes (though in truth it
came of his adventure with the lion) rejoiced and said to him, 'Hast thou done the business?'
'Yes, O our lord,' answered the treasurer and gave him the two parcels of clothes and the two
vials of blood.  Then he bethought himself of the perfidy of women and the calamities brought
about by them, and opening the two parcels fell to turning over his sons' clothes and weeping.
Presently, he found in the pocket of his son Asaad's clothes a letter in Queen Budour's hand,
enclosing the tresses of her hair, and reading it, knew that the prince had been falsely accused.
Then he searched Amjed's clothes and found in his pocket a letter in the handwriting of Queen
Heyat en Nufous, enclosing the tresses of her hair; so he opened and read it and knew that
Amjed also had been wronged; whereupon he beat hand upon hand and exclaimed, 'There is no power
and no virtue but in God!  I have slain my sons unjustly.'  And he buffeted his face, crying
out, 'Alas, my sons!  Alas, my long grief!'  Then he bade build two tombs in one house, which
he styled 'House of Lamentations,' and let grave thereon his sons' names; and he threw himself
on Amjed's tomb, weeping and groaning and lamenting, and repeated these verses:

O moon, that hast set beneath the earth for aye, For whose loss
     weep the shining stars of the sky,
O wand, after whom no more shall the flexile grace Of the
     willow-like bending shape enchant the eye,
My sight I've bereft of thee, of my jealousy, And ne'er shall I
     see thee again, till I come to die.
I'm drowned in the sea of my tears, for sheer unrest; Indeed, for
     sleepless sorrow in hell am I.

Then he threw himself on Asaad's tomb and recited the following verses, whilst the tears poured
from his eyes:

Fain had I shared with thee, dear heart, in death and ill; But
     God, that ordereth all, willed other than my will.
All that I see, my dole makes black, whilst from my eyes All
     black I've blotted out with weeping all my fill.[FN#66]
I weep and never stint; mine eyes run never dry; My entrails
     ulcered are and blood and tears distil.
Sore, sore it irketh me to see thee in a place[FN#67] Where
     slaves and kings alike foregather, will or nill.

Then he forsook his friends and intimates, and denying himself to his women and his family,
shut himself up in the House of Lamentations, where he passed his time in weeping for his sons.

Meanwhile, Amjed and Asaad fared on into the desert a whole month's journey, eating of the
fruits of the earth and drinking of the rain-pools, till their travel brought them to a mountain
of black stone, where the road divided in two, one skirting the foot of the mountain and the
other leading to its summit.  They took the former way, for fear of thirst, and followed it
five days, but saw no end to it and were overcome with weariness, being unused to walking in
mountains or elsewhere.  At last, despairing of coming to the end of the road, they retraced
their steps and taking the other, that led over the mountain, followed it all that day, till
nightfall, when Asaad, weary with much travel, said to Amjed, 'O my brother, I can go no farther,
for I am exceeding weak.'  'Courage,' replied Amjed; 'may be God will send us relief.'  So
they walked on part of the night, till the darkness closed in upon them, when Asaad became
beyond measure weary and saying, 'O my brother, I am worn out and spent with walking,' threw
himself on the ground and wept.  Amjed took him in his arms and fared on with him, halting
bytimes to rest, till break of day, when they came to the mountain-top and found there a stream
of running water and by it a pomegranate-tree and a prayer-niche.  They could hardly believe
their eyes, but, sitting down by the spring, drank of its water and ate of the fruit of the
tree; after which they lay down and slept till sunrise, when they washed in the spring and
eating of the pomegranates, slept again till the time of afternoon-prayer.  Then they thought
to continue their journey, but Asaad could not walk, for his feet were swollen.  So they abode
there three days, till they were rested, after which they set out again and fared on over the
mountain days and nights, well-nigh perished for thirst, till they came in sight of a city
afar off, at which they rejoiced and made towards it.  When they drew near it, they thanked
God the Most High and Amjed said to Asaad, 'O my brother, sit here, whilst I go to yonder city
and see what and whose it is and where we are in God's wide world, that we may know through
what lands we have passed in crossing this mountain, whose skirts if we had followed, we had
not reached this city in a whole year: so praised be God for safety!'  'By Allah,' replied
Asaad, 'none shall go but myself, and may I be thy ransom!  If thou leave me, I shall imagine
a thousand things and suffer tortures of anxiety on thine account, for I cannot brook thine
absence from me.'  'Go then,' rejoined Amjed, 'and do not tarry.'  So Asaad took money and
leaving his brother awaiting him, descended the mountain and fared on, till he entered the
city.  As he passed through the streets, he met an old man, with a beard that flowed down upon
his breast and was parted in twain; he bore a walking-staff in his hand and was richly clad,
with a great red turban on his head.  When Asaad saw him, he wondered at his mien and habit;
nevertheless, he went up to him and saluting him, enquired the way to the market.  The old
man smiled in his face and said, 'O my son, meseems thou art a stranger?'  'Yes,' answered
Asaad; 'I am a stranger.'  'O my son,' rejoined the other, 'verily, thou gladdenest our country
with thy presence and makest thine own land desolate by reason of thine absence.  What wantest
thou of the market?'  'O uncle,' replied Asaad, 'I have an elder brother, with whom I have
journeyed these three months, for we come from a far country.  When we sighted this city, I
left my brother in the mountain and came hither, purposing to buy food and what else and return
therewith to him, that we might feed thereon.'  'Rejoice in all good, O my son!' said the old
man.  'Know that to-day I give a marriage-feast, to which I have bidden many guests, and I
have made ready great plenty of the best and most delicious meats that the heart can desire.
So, if thou wilt come home with me, I will give thee freely all thou lackest, without price.
Moreover, I will teach thee the ways of the city; and praised be God, O my son, that thou hast
fallen in with me and none other!'  'As thou wilt,' answered Asaad; 'but make haste, for my
brother awaits me and his whole heart is with me.'  So the old man took Asaad by the hand,
smiling in his face and saying, 'Glory be to Him who hath delivered thee from the people of
this city!'  Then he carried him to a narrow lane and entering a spacious house, brought him
into a saloon, wherein were forty old men, seated in a circle about a lighted fire, to which
they were doing worship and prostrating themselves.  When Asaad saw this he was confounded
and his flesh quaked, though he knew not what they were; and the old man said to them, 'O elders
of the fire, how blessed is this day!'  Then he cried out, saying, 'Ho, Ghezban!' Whereupon
there came out to him a tall black slave of forbidding aspect, grim-visaged and flat-nosed.
The old man made a sign to him, and he bound Asaad straitly; after which the old man said to
him, 'Bear him to the dungeon under the earth and bid my slave-girl Kewam torture him day and
night and give him a cake of bread to eat morning and evening, against the time come of the
voyage to the Blue Sea and the Mountain of Fire, when we will slaughter him on the mountain
as a sacrifice.'  So the black carried him out at another door and raising a flag in the floor,
discovered a flight of twenty steps leading to a chamber under the earth, into which he descended
with him and laying his feet in irons, committed him to the slave-girl and went away. Meanwhile,
the old men said to one another, 'When the day of the Festival of the Fire comes, we will sacrifice
him on the mountain, as a propitiatory offering to the Fire.'  Presently the damsel went down
to him and beat him grievously, till the blood streamed from his sides and he fainted away;
after which she set at his head a cake of bread and a cruse of brackish water and went away
and left him.  In the middle of the night, he revived and found himself bound and sore with
beating: so he wept bitterly and recalling his former estate of ease and honour and lordship
and dominion, groaned and lamented and repeated the following verses:

Halt by the ruins of the house and question of our fate Nor think
     we sojourn in the land, as in our first estate.
Fortune, the sunderer, hath wrought the severance of our loves;
     Yet doth our enemies' despite against us nought abate.
A filthy cockatrice is set to torture me with whips, Whose breast
     against me is fulfilled with rancour and with hate.
But haply God shall yet reknit our severed loves again And turn
     our enemies from us with vengeance stern and strait.

Then he put out his hand and finding the bread and water at his head, ate enough to keep life
in him and drank a little water, but could get no sleep for the swarms of bugs and lice.  As
soon as it was day, the slave-girl came down to him and changed his clothes, which were drenched
with blood and stuck to him, so that his skin came off with the shirt; wherefore he shrieked
aloud and cried, 'Alas!' and said, 'O my God, if this be Thy pleasure, increase it upon me!
O Lord, verily Thou art not unmindful of him that oppresses me: do Thou then avenge me upon
him!'  And he groaned and repeated the following verses:

Lord, I submit myself to that Thou dost decree, Contented to
     endure, if but it pleasure Thee;
To suffer at Thy will with patience nor complain, Though I be
     cast to burn on coals of tamarisk-tree.[FN#68]
Mine enemies oppress and torture me; but Thou With benefits
     belike shall 'quite and comfort me.
Far be 't from Thee to let th' oppressor go unscathed; Thou art
     my hope and stay, O Lord of Destiny!

And what another says:

Avert thy face from thought-taking and care And trust to fate to
     order thine affair;
For many a weary and a troublous thing Is, in its issue,
     solaceful and fair.
That which was strait is oftentimes made wide And straitened
     that, which easy was whilere.
God orders all, according to His will; Gainsay Him not in what He
     doth prepare,
But trust in happy fortune near at hand, Wherein thou shalt
     forget the woes that were.

Then the slave-girl beat him till he fainted away and throwing him a cake of bread and a cruse
of brackish water, went away and left him sad and lonely, bound in chains of iron, with the
blood streaming from his sides  and far from those he loved.  So he called to mind his brother
and his former high estate and repeated the following verses, shedding floods of tears the while:

How long wilt thou wage war on me, O Fate, and bear away My
     brethren from me?  Hold thy hand and spare awhile, I pray!
Is it not time, O thou whose heart is as the rock, that thou My
     long estrangement and my dole shouldst pity and allay?
Ill hast thou wrought to those I love and made my foes exult With
     all that thou hast wreaked on me of ruin and dismay.
Yea, for the pains he sees me brook of exile and desire And
     loneliness, my foeman's heart is solaceful and gay.
Thou'rt not content with what is fallen on me of bitter dole, Of
     loss of friends and swollen eyes, affliction and affray.
But I must lie and rot, to boot, in prison strait and dour, Where
     nought but gnawing of my hands I have for help and stay,
And tears that shower in torrents down, as from the rain-charged
     clouds, And fire of yearning, never quenched, that rages
     night and day,
And memory and longing pain and melancholy thought And sobs and
     sighs and groans and cries of "Woe!" and "Wellaway!"
Passion and soul-destroying grief I suffer, and unto Desire, that
     knoweth not relent nor end, am fallen a prey.
No kindly soul is found to have compassion on my case And with
     his visits and his grace my misery allay.
Lives there a true and tender friend, who doth compassionate My
     sickness and my long unrest, that unto him I may
Make moan of all that I endure for dole and drearihead And of my
     sleepless eyes, oppressed of wakefulness alway?
My night in torments is prolonged; I burn, without reprieve, In
     flames of heart-consuming care that rage in me for aye.
The bug and flea do drink my blood, even as one drinks of wine,
     Poured by the hand of damask-lipped and slender-waisted may.
The body of me, amongst the lice, is as an orphan's good, That in
     an unjust Cadi's hands doth dwindle and decay.
My dwelling-place is in a tomb, three scanty cubits wide, Wherein
     in shackles and in bonds I languish night and day.
My tears my wine are and my chains my music: my dessert Woeworthy
     thought and cares the bed whereon myself I lay.

Meanwhile his brother abode, awaiting him, till mid-day, but he returned not: whereupon Amjed's
heart fluttered and the tears welled from his eyes.  The pangs of severance were sore upon
him and he wept sore, exclaiming, 'Alas, my brother!  Alas, my companion!  Alas, my grief!
I fear me we are separated!'  Then he descended the mountain, with the tears running down his
cheeks, and entering the city, made for the market.  He asked the folk the name of the city
and of its people, and they said, 'This is called the City of the Magians, and its people serve
the Fire, not the Omnipotent King.'  Then he enquired of the City of Ebony and they answered,
'It is a year's journey thither by land and six months' by sea: it was governed erst by a King
called Armanous, but he took to son-in-law a prince called Kemerezzeman, distinguished for
justice and loyalty, munificence and benevolence, and made him king in his stead.'  When Amjed
heard tell of his father, he groaned and wept and lamented and knew not whither to go.  However,
he bought food and carried it with him, till he came to a retired spot, where he sat down,
thinking to eat: but, recalling his brother, he fell a-weeping and ate but a morsel to stay
his stomach, and that against his will.  Then he rose and walked about the city, seeking news
of his brother, till he saw a Muslim, a tailor, sitting in his shop; so he sat down by him
and told him his story; whereupon quoth the tailor, 'If he have fallen into the hands of any
of the Magians, thou shalt hardly see him again: yet it may be God will reunite you. But thou,
O my brother,' added he, 'wilt thou lodge with me?' 'Yes,' answered Amjed, and the tailor rejoiced
at this.  So Amjed abode with him many days, what while the tailor comforted him and exhorted
him to patience and taught him his craft, till he became expert.  One day, he went forth to
the sea-shore and washed his clothes; after which he entered the bath and put on clean raiment.
Then he walked about the streets, to divert himself, and presently fell in with a woman of
surpassing beauty and symmetry, unequalled for grace and loveliness.  When she saw him, she
raised her face-veil and winked to him and ogled him, reciting the following verses:

Afar, I saw thee coming and cast mine eyes down straight, As if,
     loveling slender, thou wert the very sun.
Indeed, thou art the fairest of all beholden; yea, Even than
     thyself thou'rt fairer, since yesterday was done.
Were beauty but allotted, to every one his due, One-fifth of it
     were Joseph's or but a part of one,
And all the rest were surely thine own and only thine; May all
     men be thy ransom, yea, every mother's son!

When he heard this, his heart inclined to her and the  hands of love sported with him: so he
winked to her in  answer and repeated the following verses:

Over the rose of the cheek, the thorns of the eyelashes rise; So
     who shall adventure himself to gather the flowery prize?
Lift not your hands to the rose, for long have the lashes waged
     war And poured on us battle, because we lifted to it-ward
     our eyes.
Tell her the tyrant who plays and yet is temptation itself,
     (Though still more seductive she'd be, if she dealt but in
     loyaller wise),
I see that, for beauty like thine, exposure's the surest of
     guards, For the veiling thy face but augments its seductions
     and adds to our sighs;
Like the sun, on whose visage undimmed the eye still refuses to
     look, And yet we may gaze at our ease, when the thinnest of
     clouds o'er it lies.
The honey's protected, forsooth, by the sting of the bees of the
     hive: So question the guards of the camp why they stay us in
     this our emprise.
If my slaughter be what they desire, let them put off their
     rancours and stand From between us and leave her to deal
     with me and my life at her guise;
For, I wot, not so deadly are they, when they set on a foe with
     their swords, As the eyes of the fair with the mole, when
     her glances upon us she plies.

At this she sighed deeply and signing to him again, repeated the following verses:

'Tis thou that hast trodden the road of aversion and coyness; not
     I Vouchsafe me the promised delight, for the time of
     fulfilment draws nigh.
O thou that mak'st morning to dawn with the lustre and light of
     thy brows And eke, with thy brow-locks unloosed, the night
     to sink down from the sky,
Thou hast, with an idol's aspect, seduced me and made me thy
     slave And hast stirred me up troubles galore in many a
     season past by.
And yet it is just that my heart with the ardour of passion
     should burn, For the fire is their due who adore aught other
     than God the Most High.
Thou sellest the like of myself for nothing, yea, free, without
     price; If needs thou must sell, and no help, take a price,
     then, of those that would buy.

When he heard this, he said to her, 'Wilt thou come to my lodging or shall I go with thee to
thine?'  At this, she hung her head bashfully and repeated the words of the Most High, 'Men
shall have precedence over women, for that God hath preferred these over those.'[FN#69] By
this, Amjed understood that she wished to go with him and felt himself bounden to find a place
wherein to receive her, but was ashamed to carry her to the house of his host, the tailor.
So he walked on and she followed him from street to street, till she was tired and said to
him, 'O my lord, where is thy house?'  'But a little way before us,' answered he. Then he turned
aside into a handsome street, followed by the young lady, and walked on, till he came to the
end, when he found it had no issue and exclaimed, 'There is no power and no virtue but in God
the Most High, the Supreme!'  Then, raising his eyes, he saw, at the upper end of the street,
a great door, with two stone benches; but it was locked.  So he sat down on one of the benches
and the lady on the other; and she said to him, 'O my lord, wherefore waitest thou?'  He bowed
his head awhile, then raised it and answered, 'I am waiting for my servant, who has the key:
for I bade him make me ready meat and drink and flowers for the wine-service against my return
from the bath.'  But he said in himself, 'Belike she will grow tired of waiting and go about
her business, leaving me here, when I will go my own way.' However, when she was weary of waiting,
she said, 'O my lord, thy servant tarries long; and here are we waiting in the street.' And
she took a stone and went up to the lock.  'Be not in haste,' said Amjed; 'but have patience
till the servant comes.'  However, she hearkened not to him, but smote the lock with the stone
and broke it in half, whereupon the door opened.  Quoth he, 'What possessed thee to do this?'
'Pooh, pooh, my lord!' answered she. 'What matters it?  Is not the house thine?'  'Yes,' said
he; 'but there was no need to break the lock.'  Then she entered, leaving Amjed confounded
and knowing not what to do for fear of the people of the house; but she said to him, 'Why dost
thou not enter, O light of mine eyes and darling of my heart?'  'I hear and obey,' answered
he; 'but my servant tarries long upon me and I know not if he have done aught of what I bade
him or not.'  So saying, he entered, sore in fear of the people of the house, and found himself
in a handsome saloon, full of buffets and niches and settles, furnished with stuffs of silk
and brocade.  It had four raised recesses, each facing other, and in the midst was a fountain
of costly fashion, on whose margin stood a covered tray (of meats), with a leather table-cloth
hanging up and dishes set with jewels, full of fruits and sweet-scented flowers.  Hard by stood
drinking vessels and a candlestick with a candle therein. The place was full of precious stuffs,
and therein were chests and stools set, on each of which latter lay a parcel of clothes and
a purse full of gold and silver.  The floor was paved with marble and the house bore witness
in every part to its owner's fortune.  When Amjed saw all this, he was confounded and said
in himself, 'I am a lost man!  Verily, we are God's and to God we return!'  As for the lady,
she was transported at what she saw and said to him, 'By Allah, O my lord, thy servant has
not failed of his duty; for see, he has swept the place and cooked the meat and set on the
fruit; and indeed I come at the best of times.' But he paid no heed to her, his heart being
taken up with fear of the people of the house; and she said, 'Fie, O my lord, O my heart! 
What ails thee to stand thus?'  Then she sighed and giving him a kiss, that sounded like the
cracking of a walnut, said, 'O my lord, and thou have bidden other than me, I will gird my
middle and serve her and thee.'  Amjed laughed from an angerful heart and sat down, panting
and saying in himself, 'Alack, how I shall smart for it, when the owner of the house returns!'
She seated herself by him and fell to jesting and laughing, whilst he sat careful and frowning,
thinking a thousand thoughts and saying in himself, 'The master of the house will surely come
and what shall I say to him?  He will assuredly kill me without mercy.'  Presently, she rose
and tucking up her sleeves, took a table, on which she laid the cloth and the tray of food;
then set it before Amjed and began to eat, saying, 'Eat, O my lord.'  So he came forward and
ate; but the food was not pleasant to him and he ceased not to look towards the door, till
the lady had eaten her fill, when she took away the meats and setting on the dessert, fell
to eating of the dried fruits.  Then she brought the wine-service and opening the jar, filled
a cup and gave it to Amjed, who took it, saying in himself, 'Alas! what will become of me,
when the master of the house comes and sees me!'  Presently, as he sat, with the cup in his
hand and his eyes fixed on the vestibule, in came the master of the house, who was one of the
chief men of the city, being Master of the Horse to the King.  He had fitted up this house
for his privy pleasures, that he might make merry therein and be private with whom he would,
and had that day bidden one whom he loved and had made this entertainment for him.  When, therefore,
this man (whose name was Behadir and who was a kindly, liberal and open- handed man) came thither
and found the door open and the lock broken, he entered softly and putting in his head at the
door of the saloon, saw Amjed and the lady sitting, with the dish of fruit and the wine-jar
before them.  Amjed at that moment had the cup in his hand and his face turned to the door;
and when his eyes met Behadir's, he turned pale and trembled in every nerve. Behadir, seeing
his trouble, signed to him, with his finger on his lips, as who should say, 'Be silent and
come hither to me.' So he set down the cup and rose, whereupon quoth the lady, 'Whither away?'
He shook his head and signing to her that he wished to make water, went out into the corridor,
barefoot.  When he saw Behadir, he knew him for the master of the house; so he hastened to
him and kissing his hands, said to him, 'God on thee, O my lord, before thou do me any hurt,
hear what I have to say.' Then he told him who he was and what caused him leave his native
land and royal state, and how he had not entered his house of his free will, but that it was
the lady who had broken the lock and done all this.  When Behadir heard his story and knew
that he was a king's son, he inclined to him and taking compassion on him, said to him, 'O
Amjed, hearken to me and do what I bid thee, and I will ensure thee safety from that thou fearest;
but, if thou cross me, I will kill thee.'  'Command me as thou wilt,' answered Amjed.  'I will
not gainsay thee in aught, for I am the freedman of thy bounty.'  'Then go back forthright
into the saloon,' rejoined Behadir, 'and sit down in thy place and take thine ease. I will
presently come in to thee, and when thou seest me (now my name is Behadir) do thou revile me
and rail at me, saying, "Why hast thou tarried till now?"  And accept no excuse from me, but
rise and beat me; and if thou spare me, I will do away thy life. Enter now and make merry and
whatsoever thou seekest of me, I will bring thee forthwith.  So pass the night as thou wilt
and on the morrow go thy way.  This in honour of thy strangerhood, for I love strangers and
hold myself bounden to do them honour.'  So Amjed kissed his hand and returning to the saloon,
with his face clad in its native white and red, said to the lady, 'O my mistress, the place
is gladdened by thy presence, and this is indeed a blessed night.'  'Verily,' said she, 'this
is a wonderful change in thee, that thou now welcomest me so cordially!'  'By Allah, O my lady,'
answered he, 'methought my servant Behadir had robbed me of some necklaces of jewels, worth
ten thousand dinars each; however, when I went out but now, in concern for this, I sought for
them and found them in their place.  I know not why the knave tarries thus, and needs must
I punish him for it.'  She was satisfied with his answer, and they drank and sported and made
merry, till near upon sundown, when Behadir came in to them, having changed his clothes and
girt his middle and put on shoes, such as are worn of servants.  He saluted and kissed the
earth, then clasped his hands behind him and stood, with his head hanging down, as one who
confesses to a fault.  Amjed looked at him with angry eyes and said, 'Why hast thou tarried
till now, O most pestilent of slaves?'  'O my lord,' answered Behadir, 'I was busy washing
my clothes and knew not of thy being here; for thou hadst appointed me for nightfall and not
for the daytime.'  But Amjed cried out at him, saying, 'Thou liest, O vilest of slaves!  By
Allah, I must beat thee!'  So he rose and laying Behadir on the ground, took a stick and beat
him gingerly: but the lady sprang up and snatching the stick from his hand, laid on to Behadir
so lustily, that the tears ran from his eyes and he ground his teeth together and called out
for succour; whilst Amjed cried out to the lady to hold her hand and she answered, 'Let me
stay my anger on him;' till at last he snatched the stick from her hand and pushed her away.
Behadir arose and wiping away his tears, waited upon them awhile; after which he swept the
hall and lighted the lamps; but, as often as he went in and out, the lady railed at him and
cursed him, till Amjed was wroth with her and said, 'For God's sake, leave my servant; he is
not used to this.'  Then they sat eating and drinking, whilst Behadir waited upon them, till
midnight, when the latter, weary with service and beating, fell asleep in the midst of the
hall and snored and snorted; whereupon the lady, who was heated with wine, said to Amjed, 'Arise,
take the sword that hangs yonder and cut off this slave's head, or I will be the death of thee.'
'What possesses thee to kill my slave?' asked Amjed; and she answered, 'Our delight will not
be fulfilled but by his death. If thou wilt not kill him, I will do it myself.'  'For God's
sake,' cried Amjed, 'do not this thing!'  'It must be,' replied she and taking down the sword,
drew it and made at Behadir to kill him; but Amjed said in himself, 'This man hath entreated
us courteously and sheltered us and done us kindness and made himself my servant: and shall
we requite him by killing him? This shall never be.  Then he said to the lady, 'If my slave
must be killed, better I should do it than thou.'  So saying, he took the sword from her and
raising his hand, smote her on the neck and made her head fly from her body.  It fell upon
Behadir, who awoke and sitting up, saw Amjed standing by him, with the bloodstained sword in
his hand, and the damsel lying dead.  He enquired what had passed, and Amjed told him what
she had said, adding, 'Nothing would serve her but she must kill thee; and this is her reward.'
Behadir rose and kissing the prince's hand, said to him, 'Would God thou hadst spared her!
But now there is nothing for it but to rid us of her forthright, before the day break.'  So
saying, he wrapped the body in a mantle and laying it in a basket, said to Amjed, 'Thou art
a stranger here and knowest no one: so sit thou here and await my return.  If I come back,
I will assuredly do thee great good service and use my endeavour to have news of thy brother;
but if I return not by sunrise, know that all is over with me; in which case the house and
all it contains are thine, and peace be on thee.'  Then he shouldered the basket and going
forth, made for the sea, thinking to throw it therein: but as he drew near the shore, he turned
and found himself surrounded by the chief of the police and his officers. They knew him and
wondered and opened the basket, in which they found the slain woman.  So they seized him and
laid him in irons till the morning, when they carried him and the basket to the King and acquainted
the latter with the case.  The King was sore enraged and said to Behadir, 'Out on thee!  This
is not the first time thou hast slain folk and cast them into the sea and taken their goods.
How many murders hast thou done ere this?'  Behadir hung his head, and the King cried out at
him, saying, 'Woe to thee!  Who killed this young lady?'  'O my lord,' answered Behadir, 'I
killed her, and there is no power and no virtue but in God the Most High, the Supreme!'  At
this the King's anger redoubled and he commanded to hang him.  So the hangman and the chief
of the police went down with him, by the King's commandment, and paraded him through the streets
and markets of the town, whilst a crier forewent them, bidding all the folk to the execution
of Behadir, the King's Master of the Horse.

Meanwhile, Amjed awaited his host's return till the day broke and the sun rose, and when he
saw that he came not, he exclaimed, 'There is no power and no virtue but in God the Most High,
the Supreme!  I wonder what is come of him?'  As he sat musing, he heard the crier proclaiming
aloud Behadir's sentence and bidding the people to his hanging at midday; whereat he wept and
exclaimed, 'Verily, we are God's and to Him we return!  He means to sacrifice himself unjustly
for my sake, when it was I killed her.  By Allah, this shall never be!'  Then he went out and
shutting the door after him, hurried through the streets, till he overtook Behadir, when he
accosted the chief of the police and said to him, 'O my lord, put not Behadir to death, for
he is innocent.  By Allah, none killed her but I.'  When the Master of the Police heard this,
he took them both and carrying them before the King, told him what Amjed had said; whereupon
he looked at the prince and said to him, 'Didst thou kill the young lady?' 'Yes,' answered
he, and the King said, 'Tell me why thou killedst her, and speak the truth.'  'O King,' replied
Amjed, 'indeed, it is a rare event and a strange matter that hath befallen me: were it graven
with needles on the corners of the eye, it would serve as a lesson to whoso can profit by admonition.'
Then he told him his whole story and all that had befallen him and his brother, first and last;
whereat the King wondered greatly and said to him, 'O youth, I know thee now to be excusable.
Wilt thou be my Vizier?'  'I hear and obey,' answered Amjed; whereupon the King bestowed magnificent
dresses of honour on him and Behadir and gave him a handsome house, with servants and officers
and all things needful, appointing him stipends and allowances and bidding him make search
for his brother Asaad.  So Amjed sat down in the seat of office and governed and did justice
and invested and deposed and gave and took.  Moreover, he sent out a crier to cry his brother
throughout the city, and he made proclamation in the streets and markets many days, but heard
no news of Asaad nor happened on any trace of him.

Meanwhile, the Magians ceased not to torture Asaad, night and day, for a whole year's space,
till the day of their festival drew near, when the old man (whose name was Behram) made ready
for the voyage and fitted out a ship for himself.  When all was ready, he laid Asaad in a chest
and locking it, transported it to the ship.  As fate would have it, Amjed was at that very
time standing looking upon the sea; and when he saw the men carrying the chest and other gear
on board the ship, his heart throbbed and he called to his servants to bring him his horse.
Then, mounting with a company of his officers, he rode down to the port and halted before the
Magian's ship, which he commanded his men to search.  So they boarded the vessel and searched
it in every part, but found nothing and returned and told Amjed, who mounted again and rode
back to his palace, with a troubled mind.  As he entered, he cast his eyes on the wall and
saw written thereon the following verses, which when he read, he called to mind his brother
and wept:

Beloved ones, for all you're absent from my sight, Yet in my
     heart and thought you have your sojourn still.
You leave me here to pine and languish for desire; You rob mine
     eyes of sleep and sleep yourselves your fill.

Meanwhile, Behram embarked and shouted to his crew to make sail in all haste.  So they loosed
the sails and departing, fared on without ceasing many days and nights; and every other day,
Behram took out Asaad and gave him a little bread and water, till they drew near the Mountain
of Fire, when there came out on them a contrary wind and the sea rose against them, so that
they were driven out of their course into strange waters and came in sight of a city builded
upon the shore, with a citadel whose windows overlooked the sea.  Now the ruler of this city
was a queen called Merjaneh, and the captain said to Behram, 'O my lord, we have strayed from
our course and come to the island of Queen Merjaneh, who is a devout Muslim; and if she know
that we are Magians, she will take our ship and slay us to the last man.  Yet needs must we
put in here to rest [and refit].'  Quoth Behram, 'Let us clothe this Muslim we have with us
in a slave's habit and carry him ashore with us, so that, when the queen sees him, she will
think and say,  "This is a slave."  As for me, I will tell her that I am a dealer in white
slaves and that I had with me many, but have sold all but this one, whom I have retained to
keep my accounts, for he can read and write.'  And the captain said, 'This device should serve
well.'  Presently they reached the city and slackening sail, cast anchor; when, behold, Queen
Merjaneh came down to them, attended by her guards, and halting before the ship, called out
to the captain, who landed and kissed the earth before her.  Quoth she, 'What is the lading
of thy ship and whom hast thou with thee?'  'O queen of the age,' answered he, 'I have with
me a merchant who deals in slaves.'  And she said, 'Bring him to me;' whereupon Behram came
ashore to her, followed by Asaad in a slave's habit, and kissed the earth before her.  'What
is thy condition?' asked the queen; and Behram answered, 'I am a slave-dealer.'  Then she looked
at Asaad and taking him for a slave, said to him, 'What is thy name?'  Quoth he, 'Dost thou
ask my present or my former name?'  'Hast thou then two names?' asked she, and he answered
(and indeed his voice was choked with tears), 'Yes; my name aforetime was Asaad,[FN#70] but
now it is Muterr.'[FN#71] Her heart inclined to him and she said, 'Canst thou write?'  'Yes,'
answered he; and she gave him inkhorn and pen and paper and said to him, 'Write somewhat, that
I may see it.'  So he wrote the following verses:

Harkye, O thou that judgest, what can a mortal do, When fate, in
     all conditions, doth him to death ensue?
It casts him in the ocean, bound hand and foot, and says, "Beware
     lest with the water you wet yourself, look you!"

When she read this, she had compassion upon him and said to Behram, 'Sell me this slave.' 
'O my lady,' answered he, 'I cannot sell him, for he is the only slave I have left.'  Quoth
she, 'I must have him of thee, either by purchase or as a gift.' But Behram said, 'I will neither
sell him nor give him.'  Whereat she was wroth and taking Asaad by the hand, carried him up
to the palace and sent to Behram, saying, 'Except thou set sail and depart our city this very
night, I will seize all thy goods and break up thy ship.'  When the message reached the Magian,
he was sore troubled and said, 'Verily, this voyage is every way unfortunate.'  Then he made
ready and took all he needed and awaited the coming of the night, to resume his voyage, saying
to the sailors, 'Provide yourselves and fill the waterskins, that we may set sail at the last
of the night.'  So the sailors did their occasions and awaited the coming of the night.

To return to Queen Merjaneh.  When she had brought Asaad into the palace, she opened the windows
overlooking the sea and bade her handmaids bring food.  Accordingly, they set food before Asaad
and herself, and they ate, after which the queen called for wine and fell to drinking with
him.  Now God (may He be exalted and glorified!) filled her heart with love for Asaad and she
plied him with wine, till his reason fled and presently he rose and left the hall, to do an
occasion.  Seeing a door open, he went out and walked on, till he came to a vast garden full
of all manner fruits and flowers and sitting down under a tree, did his occasion.  Then he
went up to a fountain in the garden and made the ablution and washed his hands and face, after
which he would have risen to go away; but the air smote him and he fell back, with his clothes
undone, and slept, and night overcame him thus.

Meanwhile, Behram, the night being come, cried out to the sailors to spread sail and depart.
'We hear and obey,' answered they; 'but give us time to fill our water-skins.'  Then they landed
with their water-skins and coasting the palace, found nothing but walls: so they climbed over
into the garden and followed the track of feet, that led them to the fountain, where they found
Asaad lying on his back, asleep.  They knew him and taking him up, climbed the wall again with
him, after they had filled their skins, and carried him back in haste to Behram, to whom said
they, 'Beat thy drums and sound thy pipes; for we have found thy prisoner, whom Queen Merjaneh
took from thee by force, and have brought him back to thee.'  And they threw Asaad down before
him. When Behram saw him, his heart leapt for joy and his breast dilated with gladness.  Then
he bestowed largesse on the sailors and bade them weigh anchor in haste.  So they set sail
forthright, intending for the Mountain of Fire, and stayed not their course till the morning.

As for Queen Merjaneh, she abode awhile, awaiting Asaad's return; and when she saw that he
came not, she rose and sought him, but found no trace of him.  Then she bade her women light
flambeaux and search for him, whilst she herself went forth and seeing the garden-door open,
knew that he had gone thither.  So she went out and finding his slippers lying by the fountain,
searched the garden in every part, but found no sign of him.  Nevertheless, she gave not over
the search till morning, when she enquired for the Magian's ship and was told that it had set
sail in the first watch of the night; wherefore she knew that they had taken Asaad with them
and this was grievous to her and she was angry.  So she bade equip ten great ships forthwith
and arming herself, embarked in one of them, with her guards and women and troops, richly accoutred
and armed for war.  They spread the sails and she said to the captain, 'If you overtake the
Magian's ship, ye shall have of me dresses of honour and largesse; but if ye let it escape,
I will kill you all.'  Whereat fear and great hope fell upon the seamen, and they sailed three
days and nights, till, on the fourth day, they sighted Behram's ship.  Ere ended day, they
came up with it and surrounded it on all sides, even as Behram had taken Asaad forth of the
chest and was beating and torturing him, whilst the prince cried out for succour and relief,
but found neither helper nor deliverer; and indeed he was sorely tormented with much beating.
Presently Behram chanced to look up and seeing himself encompassed by the queen's ships, as
the white of the eye encompasses the black, gave himself up for lost and groaned and said to
Asaad, 'Out on thee, O Asaad!  This is all thy doing; but, by Allah, I will kill thee ere I
die myself.' Then he bade the sailors throw him overboard; so they took him by the hands and
feet and cast him into the sea and he sank.  But God (may He be exalted and glorified!) willed
that his life should be saved and that his last day should be deferred; so He caused him to
rise again and he struck out with his hands and feet, till the Almighty gave him ease and relief
and the waves bore him far from the Magian's ship and threw him ashore.  He landed, scarce
crediting his escape, and putting off his clothes, wrung them and spread them out to dry, whilst
he sat, naked and weeping over his misfortunes and desolate and forlorn condition and repeating
the following verses:

My fortitude fails me for travail and pain; My patience is spent,
     my endeavour in vain;
My sinews are sundered; O Lord of all lords, To whom but his Lord
     shall the wretched complain?

Then, rising, he donned his clothes and set out at a venture, knowing not whither he went.
He fared on day and night, eating of the herbs of the earth and the fruits of the trees and
drinking of the streams, till he came in sight of a city; whereupon he rejoiced and hurried
on; but before he reached it, the night overtook him and the gates were shut.  Now, as chance
would have it, this was the very city in which he had been a prisoner and to whose king his
brother Amjed was vizier. When he saw the gate was shut, he turned back and made for the burial-ground,
where finding a tomb without a door, he entered and lay down and fell asleep, with his face
in his sleeve.

Meanwhile, Queen Merjaneh, coming up with Behram's ship, questioned him of Asaad; but he swore
to her that he was not with him and that he knew nothing of him.  She searched the ship, but
found no trace of Asaad, so took Behram and carrying him back to her castle, would have put
him to death; but he ransomed himself from her with all his good and his ship and she released
him and his men.  They went forth from her, hardly believing in their escape, and fared on
ten days' journey, till they came to their own city and found the gate shut, it being eventide.
So they made for the burial-ground, thinking to lie the night there, and going round about
the tombs, as fate would have it, saw that, in which Asaad lay, open; whereat Behram marvelled
and said,' I must look into this tomb.'  Then he entered and found Asaad lying asleep, with
his head on his sleeve; so he raised his head and looking in his face, knew him for him on
whose account he had lost his goods and his ship, and said, 'Art thou yet alive?' Then he bound
him and gagged him, without further parley, and carried him to his house, where he clapped
heavy shackles on his feet and lowered him into the underground dungeon aforesaid, affected
to the tormenting of Muslims, bidding a daughter of his, by name Bustan, torture him night
and day, till the next year, when they would again visit the Mountain of Fire and offer him
up as a sacrifice there.  Then he beat him grievously and locking the dungeon door upon him,
gave the keys to his daughter.  By and by, she opened the door and went down to beat him, but
finding him a comely sweet-faced youth, with arched brows and melting black eyes, fell in love
with him and said to him, 'What is thy name?'  'My name is Assad,'[FN#72] answered he.  'Mayst
thou indeed be happy,' exclaimed she, 'and happy be thy days!  Thou deservest not torture and
blows, and I see thou hast been unjustly entreated.'  And she comforted him with kind words
and loosed his bonds.  Then she questioned him of the faith of Islam, and he told her that
it was the true and orthodox faith and that our lord Mohammed had approved himself by surpassing
miracles and manifest signs and that the [worship of] fire was not profitable, but harmful;
and he went on to expound to her the tenets of Islam, till she was persuaded and the love of
the True Faith entered her heart.  Then (for God the Most High had filled her with love of
Asaad), she made profession of the faith and became of the people of felicity.  After this,
she brought him meat and drink and talked with him and they prayed together: moreover, she
made him chicken-broths and fed him therewith, till he regained strength and his sickness left
him and he was restored to health. One day, as she stood at the door of the house, she heard
the crier proclaiming aloud and saying, 'Whoso hath with him a handsome young man, whose favour
is thus and thus, and bringeth him forth, shall have all he seeketh of wealth; but if any have
him and discover it not, he shall be hanged over his own door and his goods shall be confiscated
and his blood go for nought.'  Now Asaad had acquainted her with his whole history: so, when
she heard the crier, she knew that it was he who was sought for and going down to him, told
him the news.  Then she went forth with him to the palace of the Vizier, whom when Asaad saw,
he exclaimed, 'By Allah, this is my brother Amjed!'  And threw himself upon him; whereupon
Amjed also knew him and they embraced each other and lay awhile insensible, whilst the Vizier's
officers stood round them.  When they came to themselves, Amjed took his brother and carried
him to the Sultan, to whom he related the whole story, and the Sultan charged him to plunder
Behram's house and take himself.  So Amjed despatched thither a company of men, who sacked
the house and took Behram and brought his daughter to the Vizier, who received her with all
honour, for Asaad had told his brother all the torments he had suffered and the kindness that
she had done him.  Moreover, Amjed, in his turn, related to Asaad all that had passed between
the lady and himself and how he had escaped hanging and become Vizier; and they made moan,
each to the other, of the anguish they had suffered for separation.  Then the Sultan sent for
Behram and bade strike off his head; but he said, 'O most mighty King, art thou indeed resolved
to put me to death?'  'Yes,' replied the King, 'except thou save thyself by becoming a Muslim.'
And Behram said, 'O King, have patience with me a little.'  Then he bowed his head awhile and
presently raising it again, made profession of the faith and avowed himself a Muslim at the
hands of the Sultan.  They all rejoiced at his conversion and Amjed and Asaad told him all
that had befallen them, whereat he wondered and said, 'O my lords, make ready for the journey
and I will depart with you and carry you back to your father's court in a ship.'  At this they
rejoiced and wept sore; but he said, 'O my lords, weep not for your departure, for ye shall
be re-united [with those you love], even as were Nimeh and Num.'  'And what befell Nimeh and
Num?' asked they.  'It is told,' replied Behram, '(but God alone is all-knowing), that

Story of Nimeh Ben Er Rebya and Num His Slave-girl

There lived once in the city of Cufa a man called Er Rebya ben Hatim, who was one of the chief
men of the town, rich in goods and prosperous, and God had vouchsafed him a son, whom he named
Nimet Allah.[FN#73] One day, being in the slave-dealers' mart, he saw a female slave exposed
for sale, with a little girl of wonderful beauty and grace in her hand.  So he beckoned to
the broker and said to him, "What is the price of this woman and her child?"  "Fifty dinars,"
answered he.  "Write the contract of sale," said Er Rebya, "and take the money and give it
to her owner."  Then he gave the broker the price and his brokerage and taking the woman and
her child, carried them to his house.  When his wife saw the slave, she said to her husband
(who was the son of her father's brother), "O my cousin, what is this damsel?" Quoth he, "I
bought her for the sake of the little one on her arm, for know that, when she grows up, there
will not be her like for beauty, either in the land of the Arabs or elsewhere."  "It was well
seen of thee," answered his wife.  Then said she to the woman, "What is thy name?"  "O my lady,"
replied she, "my name is Taufic."  "And what is thy daughter's name?" asked she. "Saad,"[FN#74]
answered the slave.  "Thou sayst sooth," rejoined her mistress.  "Thou art indeed happy, and
happy is he who hath bought thee."  Then said she to her husband, "O my cousin, what wilt thou
call her?"  "What thou choosest," answered he.  "Then let us call her Num,"[FN#75] quoth she,
and he said, "Good."  The little Num was reared with Er Rebya's son Nimeh in one cradle and
each grew up handsomer than the other.  They were wont to call each other brother and sister,
till they came to the age of ten, when Er Rebya said to Nimeh, "O my son, Num is not thy sister,
but thy slave.  I bought her in thy name, whilst thou wast yet in the cradle; so call her no
more 'sister' from this day forth." "If that be so," quoth Nimeh, "I will take her to wife."
Then he went to his mother and told her of this, and she said to him, "O my son, she is thy
handmaid."  So he went in to Num and loved her and two years passed over them, whilst Num grew
up, nor was there in all Cufa a fairer or sweeter or more graceful girl than she. She learnt
the Koran and all manner of knowledge and excelled in music and singing and playing upon all
kinds of instruments, so that she surpassed all the folk of her time.  One day, as she sat
with her husband in the wine-chamber, she took the lute and tuning it, sang the following verses:

Since thou'rt my lord, by whose good grace I live in fair estate,
     A sword wherewith I smite in twain the neck of adverse fate,
No need is mine to have recourse to Amr[FN#76] or to Zeid,[FN#77]
     Nor any but thyself, an if the ways on me grow strait.

Nimeh was charmed with these verses and said to her, "I conjure thee, by my life, O Num, sing
to us with the tambourine and other instruments!"  So she sang the following verses to a lively
air:

By him whose hand possesses the reins of my affair, On passion's
     score, I swear it, my enviers I'll dare.
Yea, I will vex my censors and thee alone obey And sleep and ease
     and solace, for thy sweet sake, forswear
And dig midmost my entrails, to hold the love of thee, A grave,
     of which not even my heart shall be aware.

And Nimeh exclaimed, "Gifted of God art thou, O Num!"

But whilst they led thus the most delightsome life, El Hejjaj, [FN#78] [the governor of Cufa,
heard of Num and] said in himself, "Needs must I make shift to take this girl Num and send
her to the Commander of the Faithful Abdulmelik ben Merwan, for he hath not in his palace her
like for beauty and sweet singing." Then, calling an old woman, one of his body-servants, he
said to her, "Go to Er Rebya's house and foregather with the girl Num and cast about to steal
her away, for her like is not to be found on the face of the earth."  She promised to do his
bidding; so next morning she donned clothes of wool[FN#79] and threw round her neck a rosary
of thousands of beads; then, taking in her hand a staff and water-bottle of Yemen make, went
forth, exclaiming, "Glory be to God!  Praised be God!  There is no god but God!  God is most
great!  There is no power and no virtue but in God the Most High, the Supreme!"  Nor did she
leave making devout ejaculations, whilst her heart was full of craft and fraud, till she came
to Nimeh's house, at the hour of noonday-prayer, and knocked at the door.  The doorkeeper opened
and said to her, "What dost thou want?"  Quoth she, "I am a poor pious woman, whom the time
of noonday-prayer hath overtaken, and I would fain pray in this blessed place."  "O old woman,"
answered the porter, "this is no mosque nor oratory, but the house of Nimeh ben er Rebya."
"I know there is neither mosque nor oratory like the house of Nimeh ben er Rebya," rejoined
she.  "I am a chamberwoman of the palace of the Commander of the Faithful and am come out upon
a pilgrimage of devotion."  But the porter replied, "Thou canst not enter;" and many words
passed between them, till at last she caught hold of him, saying, "Shall the like of me, who
have free access to the houses of Amirs and grandees, be denied admission to the house of Nimeh
ben er Rebya?"  Presently, out came Nimeh and hearing their dispute, laughed and bade the old
woman enter.  So she followed him into the presence of Num, whom she saluted after the goodliest
fashion; and when she looked on her, she was confounded at her exceeding beauty and said to
her, "O my lady, I commend thee to the safeguard of God, who made thee and thy lord to accord
in beauty and grace!"  Then she stood up in the prayer-niche and betook herself to inclination
and prostration and prayer, till the day departed and the night came with the darkness, when
Num said to her, "O my mother, rest thy feet awhile."  "O my lady," answered the old woman,
"whoso seeketh the world to come must weary himself in this world, and whoso wearieth not himself
in this world shall not attain the dwellings of the just in the world to come."  Then Num brought
her food and said to her, "O my mother, eat of my victual and pray that God may relent towards
me and have mercy on me."  But she replied, "O my lady, I am fasting.  As for thee, thou art
but a girl and it befits thee to eat and drink and make merry.  May God be indulgent to thee!
Quoth the Most High, '(None shall be saved) except those that repent and believe and work the
works of righteousness.'"[FN#80] Num sat awhile, conversing with the old woman, and presently
said to Nimeh, "O my lord, conjure this old woman to sojourn with us awhile, for piety is imprinted
on her face."  Quoth he, "Set apart for her a chamber, where she may do her devotions, and
let none go in to her: peradventure God (glorified and exalted be He!) shall prosper us by
the blessing of her presence and part us not."  The old woman passed the night in prayer and
recitation,[FN#81] till daybreak, when she went in to Nimeh and Num and giving them good morning,
said to them, "I pray God to have you in His holy keeping!"  "Whither away, O my mother?" said
Num.  "My lord hath bidden me set apart for thee a chamber, where thou mayst retire for thy
devotions."  "God give him long life," replied the old woman, "and continue His favour to you
both!  I would have you charge the doorkeeper not to stay my coming in to you, and (God willing)
I will go the round of the Holy Places and pray for you at the end of my devotions every day
and night."  Then she went out (whilst Num wept for parting with her, knowing not the purpose
of her coming) and returned to El Hejjaj, who said to her, "What news?"  She answered, "I have
seen the girl, and indeed never bore woman of her day a lovelier than she."  And El Hejjaj
said to her, "So thou do my bidding, thou shalt have of me abundant good."  Quoth she, "I ask
of thee a month's time."  And he replied, "It is well."  Then she fell to paying frequent visits
to Nimeh and Num, who redoubled in honour and kindness to her, and she used to go in to them
morning and evening, and all in the house welcomed her, till, one day, being alone with Num,
she said to her, "By Allah, O my lady, when I go to the Holy Places, I will pray for thee;
but I should love thee to go thither with me, that thou mightest look on the Elders of the
Faith that resort thither, and they should pray for thee, according to thy desire."  "O my
mother," said Num, "I conjure thee by Allah, take me with thee!"  "Ask leave of thy mother-in-law,"
replied the old woman, "and I will take thee." So Num said to her mother-in-law, "O my lady,
ask my master to let us go, thee and me, one day, with this my old mother, to pray and worship
with the fakirs in the Holy Places."  Presently, Nimeh came in and sat down, whereupon the
old woman went up to him and would have kissed his hand, but he forbade her; so she called
down blessings on him and left the house.  Next day, she came again, in the absence of Nimeh,
and said to Num, "We prayed for thee yesterday; but arise now and divert thyself and return
ere thy lord come home."  So Num said to her mother-in-law, "I beseech thee, for God's sake,
let me go with this pious woman, that I may look upon the friends of God in the Holy Places
and return speedily, ere my lord come."  Quoth Nimeh's mother, "I fear lest thy lord know."
"By Allah," said the old woman, "I will not let her sit down; but she shall look, standing
on her feet, and not tarry."  So on this wise she took the damsel by guile and carrying her
to El Hejjaj's palace, bestowed her in a privy chamber and told him of her coming; whereupon
he went in to her and looking upon her, saw her to be the loveliest of the people of the day,
never had he beheld her like.  When Num saw him, she veiled her face from him; but he left
her not till he had called his chamberlain, whom he commanded to take fifty horsemen and mounting
the damsel on a swift dromedary, carry her to Damascus and there deliver her to the Commander
of the Faithful, Abdulmelik ben Merwan.  Moreover, he gave him a letter for the Khalif, saying,
"Bear him this letter and bring me his answer in all haste."  So the chamberlain took the damsel,
all tearful for separation from her lord, and setting out with her for Syria, gave not over
journeying till he reached Damascus and sought an audience of the Commander of the Faithful,
to whom he delivered the damsel and the letter.  The Khalif appointed her a separate apartment
and going into his harem, said to his wife, "El Hejjaj has bought me a female slave of the
daughters (descendants) of the (ancient) Kings of Cufa, for ten thousand dinars, and has sent
her to me with this letter."  "May God increase thee of his favour!"  answered she.  Then the
Khalif's sister went into Num and when she saw her, she said, "By Allah, happy the man who
hath thee in his house, were thy cost a hundred thousand dinars!"  "O fair-faced one," said
Num, "what King's palace is this?"  "This is the city of Damascus," answered the princess,
"and the palace of my brother, the Commander of the Faithful, Abdulmelik ben Merwan.  Didst
thou not know this?"  "By Allah, O my lady," said Num, "I had no knowledge of this!"  "And
he who sold thee and took thy price," asked the princess, "did he not tell thee that the Khalif
had bought thee?"  When Num heard this, she wept and said in herself, "I have been cozened;
but, if I speak, none will credit me; so I will hold my peace and take patience, knowing that
the relief of God is near."  Then she bent her head for shame, and indeed her cheeks were tanned
with the journey and the sun.  So the Khalif's sister left her that day and returned to her
on the morrow with clothes and necklaces of jewels and dressed her; after which the Khalif
came in to her and sat down by her side, and his sister said to him, "Look on this damsel,
in whom God hath united every perfection of beauty and grace."  So he said to Num, "Draw back
the veil from thy face;" but she would not unveil, and he beheld not her face.  However, he
saw her wrists and love of her entered his heart; and he said to his sister, "I will not go
in to her for three days, till she be cheered by thy converse."  Then he left her, but Num
ceased not to brood over her case and sigh for her separation from Nimeh, till, at eventide,
she fell sick of a fever and ate not nor drank; and her face grew pale and her charms faded.
They told the Khalif of this, and it grieved him; so he visited her with physicians and men
of skill, but none could come at a cure for her.

As for Nimeh, when he returned home, he sat down on his bed and cried, "Ho, Num!"  But she
answered not; so he rose in haste and called out, but none came to him, for all the women in
the house had hidden themselves, for fear of him.  Then he went in to his mother, whom he found
sitting with her cheek on her hand, and said to her, "O my mother, where is Num?"  "O my son,"
answered she, "she is with one who is worthier than I to be trusted with her, namely, the devout
old woman; she went forth with her to visit the fakirs and return."  "Since when has this been
her wont," asked Nimeh, "and at what hour went she forth?"  Quoth his mother, "She went out
early in the morning."  "And how camest thou to give her leave for this?" said he, and she
replied, "O my son, it was she persuaded me."  "There is no power and no virtue but in God
the Most High, the Supreme!" exclaimed Nimeh and going forth, in a state of distraction, repaired
to the chief of the police, to whom said he, "Dost thou practice on me and steal my slave-girl
away from me?  I will assuredly complain of thee to the Commander of the Faithful."  "Who has
taken her?" asked the chief of the police, and Nimeh answered, "An old woman of such and such
a favour, clad in woollen raiment and carrying a rosary of thousands of beads."  "Find me the
old woman," rejoined the other, "and I will get thee back thy slave-girl."  "Who knows the
old woman?" said Nimeh.  "And who knows the hidden things save God, may He be glorified and
exalted?" replied the official, who knew her for El Hejjaj's agent.  Quoth Nimeh, "I look to
thee for my slave-girl, and El Hejjaj shall judge between thee and me."  And the master of
police answered, "Go to whom thou wilt." Now Nimeh's father was one of the chief men of Cufa;
so he went to the palace of the governor, whose chamberlain went in to him and told him what
was to do.  El Hejjaj bade admit him and enquired his business.  Quoth Nimeh, "Such and such
things have befallen me."  And the governor said, "Bring me the chief of the police, and we
will bid him seek for the old woman."  Now he knew that the chief of the police knew her; so,
when he came, he said to him, "I wish thee to make search for the slave-girl of Nimeh ben er
Rebya."  And he answered, "None knoweth the hidden things save God the Most High."  "Thou must
send out horsemen," rejoined El Hejjaj, "and look for the damsel in all the roads and towns."
Then he turned to Nimeh and said to him, "An thy slave-girl return not, I will give thee ten
slave-girls from my house and ten from that of the chief of the police."  And he said to the
latter, "Go and seek for the girl."  So he went out and Nimeh returned home, full of trouble
and despairing of life.  He had now reached the age of fourteen and there was yet no hair on
his cheeks.  He shut himself up from his household and ceased not to weep and lament, he and
his mother, till the morning, when his father came in to him and said, "O my son, El Hejjaj
hath put a cheat on the damsel and stolen her away; but from hour to hour God giveth relief."
But grief redoubled on Nimeh, so that he knew not what he said nor who came in to him, and
indeed his charms were changed and he was in sorry case.  In this plight he abode three months,
till his father despaired of him, and the physicians visited him and said, "There is no cure
for him but the damsel."  One day, Er Rebya heard tell of a skilful Persian physician, whom
the folk gave out for accomplished in medicine and astrology and geomancy.  So he sent for
him and seating him by his side, entreated him with honour and said to him, "Look into my son's
case."  So he said to Nimeh, "Give me thy hand." Accordingly, the young man gave him his hand
and he felt his pulse and his joints and looked in his face; then he laughed and turning to
Er Rebya, said, "Thy son's only ailment is in his heart."  "Thou sayst sooth, O sage," answered
Er Rebya; "but apply thy skill to the consideration of his state and case and acquaint me with
the whole thereof and hide nought from me." Quoth the Persian, "He is enamoured of a girl,
who is either in Bassora or Damascus; and there is no cure for him but reunion with her." 
"An thou bring them together," said Er Rebya, "thou shalt have of me what will rejoice thee
and shalt live all thy life in wealth and delight."  "This is an easy matter," answered the
Persian, "and soon brought about;" and he turned to Nimeh and said to him, "Fear not; no hurt
shall befall thee; so take heart and be of good cheer."  Then said he to Er Rebya, "Give me
four thousand dinars of your money."  So he gave them to him, and he said, "I wish to carry
thy son with me to Damascus, and God willing, we will not return thence but with the damsel."
Then said he to the youth, "What is thy name?"  And he answered, "Nimeh."  "O Nimeh," said
the Persian, "sit up and be of good heart, for God will reunite thee with the damsel.  So put
thy trust in Him and eat and drink and be cheerful and fortify thyself for travel, for we set
out for Damascus this very day." So he sat up whilst the Persian made his preparations and
took of Er Rebya, in all, the sum of ten thousand dinars, together with horses and camels and
beasts of burden such as he needed for the journey.  Then Nimeh took leave of his father and
mother and journeyed with the physician to Aleppo.  They could get no news of Num there, so
fared on to Damascus, where they abode three days, after which the Persian took a shop and
adorned its shelves with gilding and stuffs of price and stocked them with vessels of costly
porcelain, with covers of silver.  Moreover, he set before himself vases and flagons of glass
full of all manner ointments and syrups, surrounded by cups of crystal, and donning a physician's
habit, took his seat in the shop, with his astrolabe and geomantic tablet before him.  Then
he clad Nimeh in a shirt and gown of silk and girding his middle with a silken kerchief embroidered
with gold, made him sit before himself, saying to him, "O Nimeh, henceforth thou art my son;
so call me nought but father and I will call thee son."  And he replied, "I hear and obey."
The people of Damascus flocked to gaze on the youth's goodliness and the beauty of the shop
and its contents, whilst the physician spoke to Nimeh in Persian and he answered him in the
same tongue, for he knew the language, after the wont of the sons of the notables.  The Persian
soon became known among the townsfolk and they began to resort to him and acquaint him with
their ailments, for which he prescribed.  Moreover, they brought him the water of the sick
in phials, and he would examine it and say, "He, whose water this is, is suffering from such
and such a disease."  And the patient would say, "Verily, this physician says sooth."  So he
continued to do the occasions of the folk and they to flock to him, till his fame spread throughout
the city and into the houses of the great.  One day, as he sat in his shop, there came up an
old woman riding on an ass with housings of brocade, embroidered with jewels, and drawing bridle
before his shop, beckoned to him, saying, "Take my hand."  So he took her hand, and she alighted
and said to him, "Art thou the Persian physician from Irak?"  "Yes," answered he, and she said,
"Know that I have a sick daughter."  Then she brought out to him a phial and he looked at it
and said to her, "Tell me thy daughter's name, that I may calculate her horoscope and learn
the hour in which it will befit her to take medicine."  "O brother of the Persians," answered
she, "her name is Num."  When he heard this, he fell to calculating and writing on his hand
and presently said to her, "O my lady, I cannot prescribe for the girl, till I know what countrywoman
she is, because of the difference of climate: so tell me where she was brought up and what
is her age."  "She is fourteen years old," replied the old woman, "and was brought up in Cufa
of Irak."  "And how long," asked he, "has she sojourned in this country?"  "But a few months,"
answered she.  When Nimeh heard the old woman's words and the name of his slave-girl, his heart
fluttered and he was like to swoon.  Then said the Persian to the old woman, "Such and such
medicines will suit her case;" and she rejoined, "Then make them up and give them to me, with
the blessing of God the Most High!"  So saying, she threw him ten dinars, and he bade Nimeh
prepare the necessary drugs; whereupon she looked at the youth and exclaimed, "God have thee
in His holy keeping, O my son! Verily, she is like thee in age and favour."  Then said she
to the physician, "O brother of the Persians, is this thy slave or thy son?"  "He is my son,"
answered he.  So Nimeh made up the medicine and laying it in a little box, took a piece of
paper and wrote thereon the following verses:

So Num but vouchsafe me a glance, to gladden my heart and my
     mind, Let Suada unfavouring prove and Juml, an't please her,
     unkind.[FN#82]
"Forget her," quoth they unto me, "And thou shalt have twenty
     like her." I will not forget her, I swear, for never her
     like should I find.

He put the paper in the box and sealing it up, wrote on the cover the following words in the
Cufic character, "I am Nimeh ben er Rebya of Cufa."  Then he gave it to the old woman, who
bade them farewell and returning to the Khalif's palace, went in to Num, to whom she delivered
the box, saying, "O my lady, know that there is lately come to our town a Persian physician,
than whom I never saw a more skilful nor a better versed in matters of sickness.  I showed
him the phial and told him thy name, and he knew thine ailment and prescribed a remedy.  Then,
by his order, his son made thee up this medicine; and there is not in Damascus a comelier or
more elegant youth than this son of his nor hath any the like of his shop."  Num took the box
and seeing the names of her lord and his father written thereon, changed colour and said to
herself, "Doubtless, the owner of this shop is come in search of me."  So she said to the old
woman, "Describe this youth to me."  "His name is Nimeh," answered the old woman; "he is richly
clad and perfectly handsome and has a mole on his right eyebrow." "Give me the medicine," cried
Num, "and may the blessing and help of God the Most High attend it!"  So she drank off the
potion and said, laughing, "Indeed, it is a blessed medicine."  Then she sought in the box
and finding the paper, read it and knew that this was indeed her lord, whereat her heart was
solaced and she rejoiced.  When the old woman saw her laughing, she exclaimed, "This is indeed
a blessed day!"  And Num said, "O nurse, I have a mind to eat and drink."  So the old woman
said to the serving-women, "Bring a tray of dainty viands for your mistress;" whereupon they
set food before her and she sat down to eat. Presently, in came the Khalif and seeing her sitting
eating, rejoiced; and the old woman said to him, "O Commander of the Faithful, I give thee
joy of thy slave's recovery!  Know that there is lately come to our city a physician, than
whom I never saw a better versed in diseases and their cure.  I fetched her medicine from him
and she has taken of it but once and is restored to health."  Quoth he, "Take a thousand dinars
and provide for her treatment, till she be completely recovered." And he went away, rejoicing
in the damsel's recovery, whilst the old woman betook herself to the physician, to whom she
delivered the thousand dinars and a letter that Num had written, giving him to know that she
was become the Khalif's slave.  He gave the letter to Nimeh, who knew her hand and fell down
in a swoon.  When he came to himself, he opened the letter and found these words written therein:
"From the slave despoiled of her delight,[FN#83] her whose reason hath been beguiled and who
is separated from the beloved of her heart.  Thy letter hath reached me and hath dilated my
bosom and rejoiced my heart, even as saith the poet:

The letter reached me, never may the fingers fail thee aught,
     That traced its characters, until with sweetest scent
     they're fraught!
'Twas as unto his mother's arms when Moses was restored Or as to
     blind old Jacob's hands when Joseph's coat was
     brought."[FN#84]

When he read these verses, his eyes ran over with tears and the old woman said to him, "What
ails thee to weep, O my son?  May God never make thine eye to shed tears!"  "O my lady," answered
the Persian, "how should my son not weep, seeing that this is his slave-girl and he her lord
Nimeh ben er Rebya of Cufa?  Indeed, her recovery depends on her seeing him, for nought ails
her but the love of him.  So, O my lady, take these thousand dinars to thyself (and thou shalt
have of me yet more than this) and look on us with eyes of compassion; for we know not how
to bring this affair to a happy issue but through thee."  Then she said to Nimeh, "Art thou
indeed her lord?"  "Yes," answered he, and she, "Thou sayst truly; for she ceases not to name
thee."  Then he told her all that had passed from first to last, and she said, "O youth, thou
shalt owe thy reunion with her to none but me."  So she mounted at once and returning to Num,
looked in her face and smiled, saying, "O my daughter, it is just that thou weep and fall sick
for thy separation from thy master Nimeh ben er Rebya of Cufa."  Quoth Num, "Verily, the veil
has been withdrawn for thee and the truth revealed to thee."  "Be of good cheer," rejoined
the old woman, "and take heart, for I will surely bring you together, though it cost me my
life."  Then she returned to Nimeh and said to him, "I have seen thy slave-girl and find that
she longs for thee yet more than thou for her; for the Commander of the Faithful is minded
to foregather with her, but she refuses herself to him.  But if thou be stout of heart and
firm of courage, I will bring you together and venture myself for you and make shift to bring
thee to her in the Khalif's palace; for she cannot come forth."  And Nimeh answered, "God requite
thee with good!"  Then she went back to Num and said to her, "Thy lord is indeed dying of love
for thee and would fain see thee and foregather with thee.  What sayst thou?"  "And I also,"
answered Num, "am dying for his sight."  So the old woman took a parcel of women's clothes
and ornaments and repairing to Nimeh, said to him, "Come apart with me into a privy place."
So he brought her into the room behind the shop, where she painted him and decked his wrists
and plaited his hair, after which she clad him in a slave-girl's habit and adorned him after
the fairest fashion of woman's adornment, till he was as one of the houris of Paradise; and
when she saw him thus, she exclaimed, "Blessed be God, the most excellent Creator!  By Allah,
thou art handsomer than the damsel!  Now, walk with thy left shoulder forward and swing thy
buttocks."  So he walked before her, as she bade him; and when she saw he had caught the trick
of women's gait, she said to him, "Expect me to-morrow night, when, God willing, I will come
and carry thee to the palace.  When thou seest the chamberlains and the eunuchs, fear not,
but bow thy head and speak not with any, for I will ward thee from their speech; and with God
is success." Accordingly, on the morrow she returned at the appointed hour and carrying him
to the palace, entered and he after her.  The chamberlain would have stayed him, but the old
woman said to him, "O most ill-omened of slaves, this is the handmaid of Num, the Khalif's
favourite.  How darest thou stay her?"  Then said she, "Enter, O damsel!"  And they went on,
till they drew near the door leading to the inner court of the palace, when the old woman said
to him, "O Nimeh, take courage and enter and turn to the left.  Count five doors and enter
the sixth, for it is that of the place prepared for thee.  Fear nothing, and if any speak to
thee, answer not neither stop."  Then she went up with him to the door, and the chamberlain
on guard hailed her, saying, "What damsel is that?"  Quoth the old woman, "Our lady hath a
mind to buy her."  And he said, "None may enter save by leave of the Commander of the Faithful;
so go thou back with her.  I cannot let her pass, for thus am I commanded."  "O chief chamberlain,"
replied the old woman, "use thy reason.  Thou knowest that Num, the Khalif's slave-girl, of
whom he is enamoured, is but now restored to health and the Commander of the Faithful hardly
yet credits her recovery.  Now she is minded to buy this girl; so oppose thou not her entrance,
lest it come to Num's knowledge and she be wroth with thee and suffer a relapse and this bring
thy head to be cut off."  Then said she to Nimeh, "Enter, O damsel; pay no heed to what he
says and tell not the princess that he opposed thine entrance."  So Nimeh bowed his head and
entered, but mistook and turned to his right, instead of his left, and meaning to count five
doors and enter the sixth, counted six and entering the seventh, found himself in a  place
carpeted with brocade and hung with curtains of gold-embroidered silk. Here and there stood
censers of aloes-wood and ambergris and sweet-scented musk, and at the upper end was a couch
covered with brocade, on which he seated himself, marvelling at the exceeding magnificence
of the place and knowing not what was appointed to him in the secret purpose of God.  As he
sat musing on his case, the Khalif's sister entered, followed by her handmaid, and seeing him
seated there took him for a slave-girl and said to him, "What art thou, O damsel, and who brought
thee hither?"  He made no reply and she continued, "If thou be one of my brother's favourites
and he be wroth with thee, I will intercede with him for thee."  But he answered her not a
word; so she said to her maid, "Stand at the door and let none enter."  Then she went up to
Nimeh and looking at him, was amazed at his beauty and said to him, "O lady, tell me who thou
art and how thou camest here; for I have never seen thee in the palace."  Still he answered
not, whereat she was angered and putting her hand to his bosom, found no breasts and would
have unveiled him, that she might know who he was; but he said to her, "O my lady, I am thy
slave and cast myself on thy protection; do thou protect me."  "No harm shall come to thee,"
said she; "but tell me who thou art and who brought thee into this my lodging."  "O princess,"
answered he, "I am known as Nimeh ben er Rebya of Cufa, and I have ventured my life for my
slave-girl Num, whom El Hejjaj took by sleight and sent hither."  "Fear not," rejoined the
princess; "no harm shall befall thee."  Then, calling her maid, she said to her, "Go to Num's
chamber and bid her to me."

Meanwhile, the old woman went to Num's bed-chamber and said to her, "Has thy lord come to thee?"
"No, by Allah!" answered Num, and the other said, "Belike he hath gone astray and entered some
chamber other than thine."  "There is no power and no virtue but in God the Most High, the
Supreme!" exclaimed Num.  "Our last hour is come and we are all lost."  As they sat, pondering,
in came the princess's maid and saluting Num, said to her, "My lady bids thee to her entertainment."
"I hear and obey," answered the damsel, and the old woman said, "Belike thy lord is with the
Khalif's sister and the veil has been done away."  So Num rose and betook herself to the princess,
who said to her, "Here is thy lord sitting with me; it seems he has gone astray; but, please
God, neither thou nor he has any cause for fear."  When Num heard this, she took heart and
went up to Nimeh, who rose to meet her, and they embraced and fell down in a swoon.  As soon
as they came to themselves, the princess said to them, "Sit down and let us take counsel for
your deliverance from this your strait."  And they answered, "O our lady, we hear and obey:
it is thine to command."  "By Allah," quoth she, "no harm shall befall you from us!"  Then
she called for meat and drink, and they sat down and ate till they had enough, after which
they sat drinking.  The cup went round amongst them and their cares ceased from them; but Nimeh
said, "Would I knew how this will end!"  "O Nimeh," quoth the princess, "dost thou love thy
slave Num?"  "O my lady," answered he, "it is my passion for her that has brought me thus in
peril of my life."  Then she said to the damsel, "O Num, dost thou love thy lord Nimeh?"  And
she replied, "O my lady, it is the love of him that has wasted my body and brought me to evil
case."  "By Allah," rejoined the princess, "since ye love each other thus, may he not live
who would sunder you!  Take heart and be of good cheer." At this they both rejoiced, and Num,
calling for a lute, tuned it and preluded enchantingly, then sang the following verses:

Whenas, content with nothing less, the spies our sev'rance
     sought, Allbe no debt of blood they had 'gainst me or thee
     in aught,
Whenas they poured upon our ears the hurtling din of war, Whilst
     helpers and protectors failed and succour came there nought,
I fought the railers with my tears, my spirit and thine eyes;
     Yea, with the torrent, fire and sword, to fend them off I
     wrought.

Then she gave the lute to Nimeh, saying, "Sing thou to us."  So he took it and playing a lively
measure, sang these verses:

The moon were like thee at its full, were it of freckles free,
     And did it never brook eclipse, the sun would favour thee.
Indeed, I marvel, (but in love how many a marvel is! Therein are
     passion and desire and cares and ecstasy,)
Short seems the distance, when I fare towards my love's abode;
     But when I journey from her sight, the way is long to me.

When he had made an end of his song, Num filled the cup and gave it to him, and he drank it
off; then she filled again and gave the cup to the princess, who took it and emptied it; after
which she in her turn took the lute and sang as follows:

Mourning and grief possess my heart and in my breast The ardour
     of desire abideth as a guest.
The wasting of my frame, alas! is manifest And all my soul is
     sick with passion and unrest.

Then she filled the cup and gave it to Num, who drank  it off and taking the lute, sang the
following verses:

O thou, upon whom I bestowed my soul and thou rack'dst it to
     death And I would have ta'en it again, but could not release
     it i' faith,
Relent to a lover forlorn; vouchsafe him, I pray, ere he die,
     What may from perdition redeem, for this is the last of his
     breath.

They ceased not to sing and make merry and drink to the sweet sound of the strings, full of
mirth and joyance and good cheer, till, behold, in came the Commander of the Faithful.  When
they saw him, they rose and kissed the ground before him; and he, seeing Num with the lute
in her hand, said to her, "O Num, praised be God who hath done away from thee pain and affliction!"
Then he looked at Nimeh (who was still disguised as a woman) and said to the princess, "O my
sister, what damsel is this by Num's side?"  "O Commander of the Faithful," answered she, "she
is one of thy slave-girls and the bosom friend of Num, who will neither eat nor drink without
her."  And she repeated the words of the poet:

Two opposites, dissevered still in charms and straitly knit, And
     each one's beauty brightlier shows against its opposite.

"By the Great God," said the Khalif, "she is as handsome as Num, and to-morrow, I will appoint
her a separate chamber beside that of Num and send her furniture and linen and all that befits
her, in honour of Num."  Then, the princess called for food and set it before her brother,
who ate and filling a cup, signed to Num to sing.  So she took the lute, after drinking two
cups, and sang the following verses:

Whenas my cup-companion hath poured me out of wine Three foaming
     cups, brimmed over with nectar from the vine,
I trail my skirts in glory all night, as if o'er thee, Commander
     of the Faithful, the empery were mine.

The Khalif was delighted and filling another cup, gave it to Num and bade her sing again. 
So she drank off the cup, and sweeping the strings of the lute, sang as follows:

O thou, the noblest man of men that live in this our day, Whose
     equal none may boast himself in power and mightiness,
O all unpeered in pride of place, to whom munificence Is as a
     birthright, Lord and King, whom all in all confess,
Thou, that dost lord it, sovran-wise, o'er all the kings of earth
     And without grudging or reproach, giv'st bountiful largesse,
God have thee ever in His guard, despite thine every foe, And be
     thy fortune ever bright with victory and success!

When the Khalif heard this, he exclaimed, "By Allah, it is good! By Allah, it is excellent!
Verily, God hath been good to thee, O Num!  How sweet is thy voice and how clear thy speech!"
They passed the time thus in mirth and good cheer, till midnight, when the Khalif's sister
said to him, "O Commander of the Faithful, give ear to a tale I have read in books of a certain
man of rank."  "And what is this tale?" asked he.  "Know," said she, "that there lived once
in the city of Cufa, a youth called Nimeh ben er Rebya, and he had a slave-girl whom he loved
and who loved him.  They had been reared in one bed; but when they grew up and mutual love
took possession of them, fate smote them with its calamities and decreed separation unto them.
For designing folk enticed her by sleight forth of his house and stealing her away from him,
sold her to one of the Kings for ten thousand dinars. Now the girl loved her lord even as he
loved her; so he left house and home and fortune and setting out in quest of her, made shift,
at the peril of his life, to gain access to her; but they had not been long in company, when
in came the King, who had bought her of her ravisher, and hastily bade put them to death, without
waiting to enquire into the matter, as was just.  What sayest thou, O Commander of the Faithful,
of this King's conduct?"  "This was indeed a strange thing," answered the Khalif; "it behoved
the King to use his power with clemency, and he should have considered three things in their
favour; first, that they loved one another; secondly, that they were in his house and under
his hand; and thirdly, that it behoves a King to be deliberate in judging between the folk,
and how much more so when he himself is concerned!  Wherefore the King in this did unkingly."
Then said his sister, "O my brother by the Lord of heaven and earth, I conjure thee, bid Num
sing and give ear to that she shall sing!"  And he said, "O Num, sing to me."  So she played
a lively measure and sang the following verses:

Fortune hath played the traitor; indeed, 'twas ever so,
     Transpiercing hearts and bosoms and kindling care and woe
And parting friends in sunder, that were in union knit, So down
     their cheeks thou seest the tears in torrents flow.
They were, and I was with them, in all delight of life, And
     fortune did unite us full straitly whiles ago.
So gouts of blood, commingled with tears, both night and day I'll
     weep, my sore affliction for loss of thee to show.

When he heard this, he was moved to great delight, and his sister said to him, "O my brother,
he who decideth in aught against himself, it behoveth him to abide by it and do according to
his word; and thou hast by this judgment decided against thyself." Then said she, "O Nimeh,
stand up, and do thou likewise, O Num!" So they stood up and she continued, "O Commander of
the Faithful, she who stands before thee is Num, whom El Hejjaj ben Yousuf eth Thekefi stole
and sent to thee, falsely pretending in his letter to thee that he had bought her for ten thousand
dinars.  This other is her lord, Nimeh ben er Rebya; and I beseech thee, by the honour of thy
pious forefathers and by Hemzeh and Akil and Abbes,[FN#85] to pardon them and bestow them one
on the other, that thou mayst earn the recompense in the next world of thy just dealing with
them; for they are under thy hand and have eaten of thy meat and drunken of thy drink; and
behold, I make intercession for them and beg of thee the boon of their lives." "Thou sayst
sooth," replied the Khalif, "I did indeed give judgment as thou sayst, and I use not to go
back on my word." Then said he, "O Num, is this thy lord?"  And she answered, "Yes, O Commander
of the Faithful."  "No harm shall befall you," said he; "I give you to one another."  Then
he said to the young man, "O Nimeh, who told thee where she was and taught thee how to get
at her?"  "O Commander of the Faithful," replied he, "give ear to my story; for by the virtue
of thy pious forefathers, I will hide nothing from thee!"  And he told him all that had passed
between himself and the Persian physician and the old woman and how she had brought him into
the palace and he had mistaken one door for another; whereat the Khalif wondered exceedingly
and said, "Fetch me the Persian."  So they fetched him and he made him one of his chief officers.
Moreover, he bestowed on him robes of honour and ordered him a handsome present, saying, "Him,
who has shown such good sense and skill in his ordinance, it behoves us to make one of our
chief officers."  He also loaded Nimeh and Num with gifts and honours and rewarded the old
woman; and they abode with him in joy and content and all delight of life seven days; at the
end of which time Nimeh craved leave to return to Cufa with his slave-girl.  The Khalif gave
leave and they departed accordingly and arrived in due course at Cufa, where Nimeh foregathered
with his father and mother, and they abode in the enjoyment of all the delights and comforts
of life, till there came to them the Destroyer of Delights and the Sunderer of Companies.'

                 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

The princes wondered mightily at Behram's story and said, 'By Allah, this is indeed a rare
story!'  They passed the night thus, and next morning, Amjed and Asaad mounted and riding to
the palace, sought an audience of the King, who received them with honour.  As they sat talking,
of a sudden they heard the townsfolk crying aloud and shouting to one another and calling for
help, and the chamberlain came in to the King and said to him, 'Some King hath encamped before
the city, he and his army, with arms displayed, and we know not who they are nor what they
seek.'  The King took counsel with his Vizier and Asaad, and Amjed said, 'I will go out to
him and learn the cause of his coming.'  So he took horse and riding forth the city, repaired
to the stranger's camp, where he found the King and with him many soldiers and mounted officers.
When the guards saw him, they knew him for an ambassador from the King of the city; so they
took him and brought him to their King.  Amjed kissed the ground before him; but lo, the King
was a queen, who wore a chin-band over her face, and she said to Amjed, 'Know that I have no
design on your city and am only come hither in quest of a beardless slave of mine, whom if
I find with you, I will do you no hurt; but if I find him not, then shall there befall sore
battle between you and me.'  'O Queen,' asked Amjed, 'what is thy slave's name and what like
is he?'  Said she, 'His name is Asaad and he is of such and such a favour.  My name is Merjaneh,
and this slave came to my town in company of Behram, a Magian, who refused to sell him to me;
so I took him by force, but the Magian fell upon him by night and took him away by stealth.'
When Amjed heard this he knew that it was his brother Asaad whom she sought and said to her,
'O Queen of the age, praised be God who hath brought us relief!  Know that he whom thou seekest
is my brother.'  Then he told her their story and all that had befallen them in the land of
exile, and acquainted her with the cause of their departure from the Islands of Ebony, whereat
she marvelled and rejoiced to have found Asaad.  So she bestowed a dress of honour upon Amjed,
and he returned to the King and told him what had passed, at which they all rejoiced and the
King and the two princes went forth to meet Queen Merjaneh.  They were admitted to her presence
and sat down to converse with her, but as they were thus engaged, behold, a cloud of dust arose
and grew, till it covered the landscape.  Presently, it lifted and discovered an army, in numbers
like the swollen sea, armed cap-a-pie, who, making for the city with naked swords, encompassed
it as the ring encompasses the little finger.  When Amjed and Asaad saw this, they exclaimed,
'We are God's and to Him we return.  What is this great army?  Doubtless, these are enemies;
and except we agree with this Queen Merjaneh to resist them, they will take the town from us
and slay us.  There is nothing for us but to go out to them and see who they are.'  So Amjed
mounted and passing through Queen Merjaneh's camp, came to the approaching army and was admitted
to the presence of their King, to whom he delivered his message, after kissing the earth before
him.  Quoth the King, 'I am called King Ghaiour, lord of the Islands and the Seas and the Seven
Castles, and am come out in quest of my daughter Budour, of whom fortune hath bereft me; for
she left me and returned not to me, nor have I heard any news of her or her husband Kemerezzeman.
Have ye any tidings of them?'  When Amjed heard this, he knew that this King was none other
than his grandfather, his mother's father, and kissing the earth before him, told him that
he was the son of his daughter Budour; whereupon Ghaiour threw himself upon him and they both
fell a-weeping.  Then said Ghaiour, 'Praised be God, O my son, for safety, since I have foregathered
with thee!'  And Amjed told him that his daughter Budour and her husband Kemerezzeman were
well and abode in a city called the City of Ebony.  Moreover, he related to him how his father,
being wroth with him and his brother, had commanded his treasurer to put them to death, but
that the latter had taken pity on them and let them go with their lives.  Quoth King Ghaiour,
'I will go back with thee and thy brother to your father and make your peace with him.'  Amjed
kissed the ground before him and the King bestowed a dress of honour upon him, after which
he returned, smiling, to the King of the city of the Magians and told him what he had learnt,
at which he wondered exceedingly.  Then he despatched guest-gifts of sheep and horses and camels
and provender and so forth to King Ghaiour and the like to Queen Merjaneh and told her what
had chanced, whereupon quoth she, 'I too will accompany you with my troops and will do my endeavour
to make peace [between the princes and their father.]' At this moment, there arose another
cloud of dust and spread, till it covered the prospect and darkened the day; and under it,
they heard shouts and cries and neighing of horses and saw the sheen of swords and the glint
of lance-points.  When this new host drew near the city and saw the two other armies, they
beat their drums and the King of the Magians exclaimed, 'This is indeed a blessed day!  Praised
be God who hath made us of accord with these two armies!  If it be His will, He will give us
peace with yon other also.'  Then said he to Amjed and Asaad, 'Go forth and bring us news of
them, for they are a mighty host, never saw I a mightier.'  So they opened the city gates,
which the King had shut for fear of the surrounding troops, and Amjed and Asaad went forth
and coming to the new host, found that it was the army of the King of the Ebony Islands, led
by their father, King Kemerezzeman in person.  When they came before him, they kissed the earth
and wept; but, when he saw them, he threw himself upon them, weeping sore, and strained them
long to his breast.  Then he excused himself to them and told them how sore desolation he had
suffered for their loss; and they acquainted him with King Ghaiour's arrival, whereupon he
mounted with his chief officers and proceeded to the King of China's camp, he and his sons.
As they drew near, one of the princes rode forward and informed King Ghaiour of Kemerezzeman's
coming, whereupon he came out to meet him and they joined company, marvelling at these things
and how Fortune had ordered their encounter in that place.  Then the townsfolk made them banquets
of all manner of meats and confections and brought them sheep and horses and camels and fodder
and other guest-gifts and all that the troops needed. Presently, behold, yet another cloud
of dust arose and spread till it covered the landscape, whilst the earth shook with the tramp
of horse and the drums sounded like the storm-winds.  After awhile, the dust lifted and discovered
an army clad in black and armed cap-a-pie, and in their midst rode a very old man clad also
in black, whose beard flowed down over his breast.  When the King of the city saw this great
host, he said to the other Kings, 'Praised be God the Most High, by whose leave ye are met
here, all in one day, and proved all known one to the other!  But what vast army is this that
covers the country?'  'Have no fear of them,' answered they; 'we are here three Kings, each
with a great army, and if they be enemies, we will join thee in doing battle with them, were
three times their number added to them.'  As they were talking, up came an envoy from the approaching
host, making for the city.  They brought him before the four Kings and he kissed the earth
and said, 'The King my master comes from the land of the Persians; many years ago he lost his
son and is seeking him in all countries.  If he find him with you, well and good; but if he
find him not, there will be war between him and you, and he will lay waste your city.'  'That
shall he not,' rejoined Kemerezzeman; 'but how is thy master called in the land of the Persians?'
'He is called King Shehriman, lord of the Khalidan Islands,' answered the envoy; 'and he hath
levied these troops in the lands traversed by him, whilst seeking his son.' When Kemerezzeman
heard his father's name, he gave a great cry and fell down in a swoon; then, presently coming
to himself, he wept sore and said to Amjed and Asaad, 'Go, O my sons, with the messenger: salute
your grandfather, King Shehriman, and give him glad tidings of me, for he mourns my loss and
even now wears black for my sake.'  Then he told the other Kings all that had befallen him
in his youth, at which they all wondered and mounting with him, repaired to his father, whom
he saluted, and they embraced and fell down in a swoon, for excess of joy.  When they revived,
Kemerezzeman acquainted his father with all his adventures, and the other Kings saluted Shehriman.
Then they married Merjaneh to Asaad and sent her back to her kingdom, charging her not to leave
them without news of her.  Moreover, Amjed took Bustan, Behram's daughter, to wife, and they
all set out for the City of Ebony.  When they arrived there, Kemerezzeman went in to his father-in-law,
King Armanous, and told him all that had befallen him and how he had found his sons; whereat
Armanous rejoiced and gave him joy of his safe return.  Then King Ghaiour went in to his daughter,
Queen Budour, and satisfied his longing for her company, and they all abode a month's space
in the City of Ebony; after which the King of China and his daughter returned to their own
country with their company, taking prince Amjed with them, whom, as soon as Ghaiour was settled
again in his kingdom, he made king in his stead.  Moreover, Kemerezzeman made Asaad king in
his room over the Ebony Islands, with the consent of his grandfather, King Armanous, and set
out himself, with his father, King Shehriman, for the Islands of Khalidan. The people of the
capital decorated the city in their honour and they ceased not to beat the drums for glad tidings
a whole month; nor did Kemerezzeman leave to govern in his father's room, till there overtook
them the Destroyer of Delights and the Sunderer of Companies."

"O Shehrzad," said King Shehriyar, "this is indeed a right wonderful story!"  "O King," answered
she, "it is not more wonderful than that of Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat."  "What is that?" asked
he, and she said, "I have heard tell, O august King, that

                   ALAEDDIN ABOU ESH SHAMAT.

There lived once in Cairo, of old time, a merchant named Shemseddin, who was of the best and
truest-spoken of the traders of the city and had great store of money and goods and slaves
and servants, white and black and male and female. Moreover, he was Provost of the Merchants
of Cairo and had a wife, whom he loved and who loved him; but he had lived with her forty years,
yet had not been blessed with son or daughter by her. One Friday, as he sat in his shop, he
noted that each of the merchants had a son or two or more, sitting in shops like their fathers.
Presently, he entered the bath and made the Friday ablution; after which he came out and took
the barber's glass, saying, 'I testify that there is no god but God and that Mohammed is His
Apostle!' Then he looked at his beard and seeing that the white hairs in it outnumbered the
black, bethought himself that hoariness is the harbinger of death. Now his wife knew the time
of his coming and had washed and made ready for him; so when he came in to her, she said, 'Good
even;' but he replied, 'I see no good.' Then she called for the evening meal and said to her
husband, 'Eat, O my lord.' Quoth he, 'I will eat nothing,' and pushing the table away with
his foot, turned his back to her. 'Why dost thou thus?' said she. 'What has vexed thee?' And
he answered, 'Thou art the cause of my vexation.' 'How so?' asked she. 'This morning,' replied
he, 'when I opened my shop, I saw that each of the other merchants had a son or two or more,
and I said to myself, "He who took thy father will not spare thee." Now the night I wedded
thee, thou madest me swear that I would never take a second wife nor a concubine, Abyssinian
or Greek or other, nor would lie a night from thee: and behold, thou art barren, and swiving
thee is like boring into the rock.' 'God is my witness,' rejoined she, 'that the fault lies
with thee, for that thy seed is thin.' 'And how is it with him whose seed is thin?' asked he,
and she, 'He cannot get women with child nor beget children.' 'What thickens seed?' asked he.
'Tell me and I will try it: haply, it will thicken mine.' Quoth she, 'Enquire for it of the
druggists.' They slept that night and arose on the morrow, repenting each of having spoken
angrily to the other. Then he went to the market and accosting a druggist, said to him, 'Hast
thou wherewithal to thicken the seed?' 'I had it, but am spent of it,' answered the druggist;
'ask my neighbour.' So Shemseddin made the round of the bazaar, till he had asked every one;
but they all laughed at him and he returned to his shop and sat down, troubled. Now there was
in the market a man called Sheikh Mohammed Semsem, who was syndic of the brokers and was given
to the use of opium and bang and hashish. He was poor and used to wish Shemseddin good morrow
every day; so he came to him according to his wont and saluted him. The merchant returned his
salute, and the other, seeing him vexed, said to him, 'O my lord, what hath crossed thee?'
Quoth Shemseddin, 'These forty years have I been married to my wife, yet hath she borne me
neither son nor daughter; and I am told that the cause of my failure to get her with child
is the thinness of my seed; so I have been seeking wherewithal to thicken it, but found it
not.' 'I have a thickener,' said Sheikh Mohammed; 'but what wilt thou say to him who makes
thy wife conceive by thee, after forty years' barrenness? 'An thou do this,' answered the merchant,
'I will largely reward thee.' 'Then give me a dinar,' rejoined the broker, and Shemseddin said,
'Take these two dinars.' He took them and said, 'Give me also yonder bowl of porcelain.' So
he gave it him, and the broker betook himself to a hashish-seller, of whom he bought two ounces
of concentrated Turkish opium and equal parts of Chinese cubebs, cinnamon, cloves, cardamoms,
white pepper, ginger and mountain lizard[FN#86] and pounding them all together, boiled them
in sweet oil; after which he added three ounces of frankincense and a cupful or coriander-seed
and macerating the whole, made it into a paste with Greek honey. Then he put the electuary
in the bowl and carried it to the merchant, to whom he delivered it, saying, 'This is the seed-thickener,
and the manner of using it is this. Make the evening-meal of mutton and house-pigeon, plentifully
seasoned and spiced; then take of this electuary with a spoon and wash it down with a draught
of boiled date-wine.' So the merchant bought mutton and pigeons and sent them to his wife,
bidding her dress them well and lay up the electuary till he should call for it. She did as
he bade her and he ate the evening-meal, after which he called for the bowl and ate of the
electuary. It liked him well, so he ate the rest and lay with his wife. That very night she
conceived by him and after three months, her courses ceased and she knew that she was with
child. When the days of her pregnancy were accomplished, the pangs of labour took her and they
raised cries of joy. The midwife delivered her with difficulty [of a son], then, taking the
new- born child, she pronounced over him the names of Mohammed and Ali and said, 'God is Most
Great!' Moreover, she called in his ear the call to prayer; then swathed him and gave him to
his mother, who took him and put him to her breast; and he sucked his full and slept. The midwife
abode with them three days, till they had made the mothering-cakes and sweetmeats; and they
distributed them on the seventh day. Then they sprinkled salt[FN#87] and the merchant, going
in to his wife, gave her joy of her safe delivery and said, 'Where is the gift of God?' So
they brought him a babe of surpassing beauty, the handiwork of the Ever-present Orderer of
all things, whoever saw him would have deemed him a yearling child, though he was but seven
days old. Shemseddin looked on his face and seeing it like a shining full moon, with moles
on both cheeks, said to his wife, 'What hast thou named him?' 'If it were a girl,' answered
she, 'I had named her; but it is a boy, so none shall name him but thou.' Now the people of
that time used to name their children by omens; and whilst the merchant and his wife were taking
counsel of the name, they heard one say to his friend, 'Harkye, my lord Alaeddin!' So the merchant
said, 'We will call him Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat.'[FN#88] Then he committed the child to the
nurses, and he drank milk two years, after which they weaned him and he grew up and throve
and walked upon the earth. When he came to seven years old, they put him in a chamber under
the earth, for fear of the evil eye, and his father said, 'He shall not come out, till his
beard grows.' And he gave him in charge to a slave-girl and a black slave; the former dressed
him his meals and the latter carried them to him. Then his father circumcised him and made
him a great feast; after which he brought him a doctor of the law, who taught him to write
and repeat the Koran and other parts of knowledge, till he became an accomplished scholar.
One day, the slave, after bringing him the tray of food, went away and forgot to shut the trap-door
after him: so Alaeddin came forth and went in to his mother, with whom was a company of women
of rank. As they sat talking, in came he upon them, as he were a drunken white slave,[FN#89]
for the excess of his beauty; and when they saw him, they veiled their faces and said to his
mother, 'God requite thee, O such an one! How canst thou let this strange slave in upon us?
Knowest thou not that modesty is a point of the Faith?' 'Pronounce the name of God,'[FN#90]
answered she. 'This is my son, the darling of my heart and the son of the Provost Shemseddin.'
Quoth they, 'We never knew that thou hadst a son:' and she, 'His father feared the evil eye
for him and shut him up in a chamber under the earth, nor did we mean that he should come out,
before his beard was grown; but it would seem as if the slave had unawares left the door open,
and he hath come out.' The women gave her joy of him, and he went out from them into the courtyard,
where he seated himself in the verandah.[FN#91] Presently, in came the slaves with his father's
mule, and he said to them, 'Whence comes this mule?' Quoth they, 'Thy father rode her to the
shop, and we have brought her back.' 'And what is my father's trade?' asked he. And they replied,
'He is Provost of the merchants of Cairo and Sultan of the Sons of the Arabs.' Then he went
in to his mother and said to her, 'O my mother, what is my father's trade?' Said she, 'He is
a merchant and Provost of the merchants of Cairo and Sultan of the Sons of the Arabs. His slaves
consult him not in selling aught whose price is less than a thousand dinars, but sell it at
their own discretion; nor doth any merchandise, little or much, enter or leave Cairo, without
passing through his hands; for, O my son, God the Most Great hath given thy father wealth past
count.' 'Praised be God,' exclaimed he, 'that I am son of the Sultan of the Sons of the Arabs
and that my father is Provost of the merchants! But why, O my mother, did you put me in the
underground chamber and leave me prisoner there?' 'O my son,' answered she, 'we did this for
fear of (men's) eyes, for it is true that the evil eye hath power to harm and the most part
of the sojourners in the tombs are of its victims.' 'O my mother,' rejoined he, 'where is a
place of refuge against destiny? Verily, taking care estoppeth not fate nor is there any escape
from that which is written. He who took my grandfather will not spare myself nor my father;
for, though he live to-day, he shall not live to-morrow. And when my father dies and I come
forth and say, "I am Alaeddin, son of Shemseddin the merchant," none of the people will believe
me, but the aged will say, "Never in our lives saw we a son or a daughter of Shemseddin." Then
the Treasury will come down and take my father's estate; and may Allah have mercy on him who
saith, "The noble dies and his wealth passes away and the meanest of men take his women." So
do thou, O my mother, speak to my father, that he take me with him to the market and set me
up in a shop with merchandise and teach me to buy and sell and give and take.' 'O my son,'
answered his mother, 'when thy father returns, I will tell him this.' So when the merchant
came home, he found his son sitting with his mother and said to her, 'Why hast thou brought
him forth of the underground chamber?' 'O my cousin,' answered she, 'it was not I that brought
him out; but the servants forgot to shut the door and left it open; so he came forth and came
in to me, as I sat with a company of women of rank.' And she went on to repeat to him what
the boy had said; and Shemseddin said to the latter, 'O my son, to- morrow, God willing, I
will take thee with me to the market; but I would have thee know that the commerce of the markets
and the shops demands good manners and an accomplished carriage in all conditions.' So Alaeddin
passed the night, rejoicing in his father's promise; and on the morrow the merchant carried
him to the bath and clad him in a suit worth much money. As soon as they had broken their fast
and drunken sherbets, Shemseddin mounted his mule and rode to the market, followed by his son;
but when the market-folk saw their Provost making towards them, followed by a youth as he were
a piece of the moon on its fourteenth night, they said, one to another, 'See yonder boy behind
the Provost of the merchants. Verily, we thought well of him; but he is like the leek, grayheaded
and green at the heart.' And Sheikh Mohammed Semsem before mentioned, the Deputy of the market,
said, 'O merchants, never will we accept the like of him for our chief.' Now it was the custom,
when the Provost came from his house and sat down in his shop of a morning, for the Deputy
of the market and the rest of the merchants to go in a body to his ship and recite to him the
opening chapter of the Koran, after which they wished him good morrow and went away, each to
his shop. Shemseddin seated himself in his shop as usual, but the merchants come not to him
as of wont; so he called the Deputy and said to him, 'Why come not the merchants together as
usual?' 'I know not how to tell thee,' answered Mohammed Semsem; 'for they have agreed to depose
thee from the headship of the market and to recite the first chapter to thee no more.' 'And
why so?' asked Shemseddin. 'What boy is this that sits beside thee,' asked the Deputy, 'and
thou a man of years and chief of the merchants? Is he a slave or akin to thy wife? Verily,
I think thou lovest him and inclinest [unlawfully] to the boy.' With this, the Provost cried
out at him, saying, 'God confound thee, hold thy peace! This is my son.' 'Never knew we that
thou hadst a son,' rejoined the Deputy; and Shemseddin answered, 'When thou gavest me the seed-thickener,
my wife conceived and bore this youth, whom I reared in a chamber under the earth, for fear
of the evil eye, nor was it my purpose that he should come forth, till he could take his beard
in his hand. However, his mother would not agree to this, and he would have me bring him to
the market and stock him a shop and teach him to sell and buy.' So the Deputy returned to the
other merchants and acquainted them with the truth of the case, whereupon they all arose and
going in a body to Shemseddin's shop, stood before him and recited the first chapter of the
Koran to him; after which they gave him joy of his son and said to him, 'God prosper root and
branch! But even the poorest of us, when son or daughter is born to him, needs must he make
a pot of custard and bid his friends and acquaintances; yet thou hast not done this.' Quoth
he, 'This is your due from me; be our rendezvous in the garden.' So next morning, he sent the
carpet- layer to the pavilion in the garden and bade him furnish it. Moreover, he sent thither
all that was needful for cooking, such as sheep and butter and so forth, and spread two tables,
one in the saloon and another in the upper chamber. Then he and his son girded themselves,
and he said to the latter, 'O my son, when a graybeard enters, I will meet him and carry him
into the upper chamber and seat him at the table; and do thou, in like manner, receive the
beardless youths and seat them at the table in the saloon.' 'O my father,' asked Alaeddin,
'why dost thou spread two tables, one for men and another for youths?' 'O my son,' answered
Shemseddin, 'the beardless boy is ashamed to eat with men.' And his son was content with this
answer. So when the merchants arrived, Shemseddin received the men and seated them in the upper
chamber, whilst Alaeddin received the youths and seated them in the saloon. Then the servants
set on food and the guests ate and drank and made merry, whilst the attendants served them
with sherbets and perfumed them with the fragrant smoke of scented woods; and the elders fell
to conversing of matters of science and tradition. Now there was amongst them a merchant called
Mehmoud of Balkh, a Muslim by profession but at heart a Magian, a man of lewd life, who had
a passion for boys. He used to buy stuffs and merchandise of Alaeddin's father; and when he
saw the boy, one look at his face cost him a thousand sighs and Satan dangled the jewel before
his eyes, so that he was taken with desire and mad passion for him and his heart was filled
with love of him. So he arose and made for the youths, who rose to receive him. At this moment,
Alaeddin, being taken with an urgent occasion, withdrew to make water; whereupon Mehmoud turned
to the other youths and said to them, 'If ye will incline Alaeddin's mind to journeying with
me, I will give each of you a dress worth much money.' Then he returned to the men's party;
and when Alaeddin came back, the youths rose to receive him and seated him in the place of
honour. Presently, one of them said to his neighbour, 'O my lord Hassan, tell me how thou camest
by the capital on which thou tradest.' 'When I came to man's estate,' answered Hassan, 'I said
to my father, "O my father, give me merchandise." "O my son," answered he, "I have none by
me: but go thou to some merchant and take of him money and traffic with it and learn to buy
and sell and give and take." So I went to one of the merchants and borrowed of him a thousand
dinars, with which I bought stuffs and carrying them to Damascus, sold them there at a profit
of two for one. Then I bought Syrian stuffs and carrying them to Aleppo, disposed of them there
at a like profit; after which I bought stuffs of Aleppo and repaired with them to Baghdad,
where I sold them with the same result; nor did I cease to buy and sell, till I was worth nigh
ten thousand dinars.' Each of the others told a like tale, till it came to Alaeddin's turn,
when they said to him, 'And thou, O my lord Alaeddin?' Quoth he, 'I was brought up in a chamber
underground and came forth from it but this week and I do but go to the shop and return home.'
'Thou art used to abide at home,' rejoined they, 'and knowest not the delight of travel, for
travel is for men only.' 'I reck not of travel,' answered he, 'and value ease above all things.'
Whereupon quoth one to the other, 'This youth is like the fish: when he leaves the water he
dies.' Then they said to him, 'O Alaeddin, the glory of the sons of the merchants is not but
in travel for the sake of gain.' Their talk angered him and he left them, weeping-eyed and
mourning-hearted, and mounting his mule, returned home. When his mother saw him thus, she said
to him, 'What ails thee to weep, O my son?' And he answered, 'All the sons of the merchants
made mock of me and said to me, "There is no glory for a merchant's son save in travel for
gain."' 'O my son,' rejoined she, 'hast thou a mind for travel?' 'Yes,' said he. 'And whither
wilt thou go?' asked she. 'To the city of Baghdad,' answered he; 'for there folk make a profit
of two to one on their goods.' 'O my son,' said she, 'thy father is a very rich man, and if
he provide thee not with merchandise, I will do so of my own monies.' Quoth he, 'The best of
favours is that which is quickly bestowed; if it is to be, now is the time for it.' So she
called the servants and sent them for packers; then opening a store-house, brought out ten
loads of stuffs, which the packers made up into bales for him. Meanwhile Shemseddin missed
his son and enquiring after him, was told that he had mounted and gone home; so he too mounted
and followed him. When he entered the house, he saw the bales packed ready and asked what they
were; whereupon his wife told him what had passed between Alaeddin and the young merchants
and he said, 'O my son, may God curse foreign travel! Verily, the Prophet (whom God bless and
preserve) hath said, "It is of a man's good fortune that he have his livelihood in his own
land;" and it was said of the ancients, "Leave travel, though but for a mile."' Then he said
to his son, 'Art thou indeed resolved to travel and wilt thou not turn back from it?' 'Needs
must I journey to Baghdad with merchandise,' answered Alaeddin, 'else will I put off my clothes
and don a dervish's habit and go a-wandering over the world.' Quoth Shemseddin, 'I am no lackgood,
but have great plenty of wealth and with me are stuffs and merchandise befitting every country
in the world.' Then he showed him his goods and amongst the rest, forth bales ready packed,
with the price, a thousand dinars, written on each, and said to him, 'Take these forty loads,
together with those thy mother gave thee, and set out under the safeguard of God the Most High.
But, O my son, I fear for thee a certain wood in thy way, called the Lion's Copse, and a valley
called the Valley of Dogs, for there lives are lost without mercy.' 'How so?' asked Alaeddin.
'Because of a Bedouin highwayman, hight Ajlan,' answered his father, 'who harbours there.'
Quoth Alaeddin, 'Fortune is with God; if any part in it be mine, no harm will befall me.' Then
they rode to the cattle market, where a muleteer alighted from his mule and kissing the Provost's
hand, said to him, 'O my lord, by Allah, it is long since thou hast employed me to carry merchandise
for thee!' 'Every time hath its fortune and its men,' answered Shemseddin; 'and may God have
mercy on him who said:

An old man went walking the ways of the world, So bowed and so
     bent that his beard swept his knee.
"What makes thee go doubled this fashion?" quoth I. He answered
     (and spread out his hands unto me),
"My youth hath escaped me; 'tis lost in the dust, And I bend me
     to seek it, where'er it may be."

O captain,'[FN#92] added he, 'it is not I, but this my son that is minded to travel.' 'God
preserve his to thee!' said the muleteer. Then Shemseddin made a contract between Alaeddin
and the muleteer, appointing that the former should be to the latter as a son, and gave him
into his charge, saying, 'Take these hundred dinars for thy men.' Moreover, he bought his son
threescore mules and a lamp and covering of honour for the tomb of Sheikh Abdulcadir el Jilani[FN#93]
and said to him, 'O my son, I am leaving thee, and this is thy father in my stead: whatsoever
he biddeth thee, do thou obey him.' So saying, he returned home with the mules and servants
and they made recitations of the Koran and held a festival that night in honour of the Sheikh
Abdulcadir. On the morrow, Shemseddin gave his son ten thousand dinars, saying, 'O my son,
when thou comest to Baghdad, if thou find stuffs brisk of sale, sell them; but if they be dull,
spend of these dinars.' Then they loaded the mules and taking leave of their friends, set out
on their journey.

Now Mehmoud of Balkh had made ready his own venture for Baghdad and set up his tents without
the city, saying in himself, 'I shall not enjoy this youth but in the desert, where there is
neither spy not spoil-sport to trouble me.' It chanced that he had in hand a thousand dinars
of Shemseddin's monies, the balance of a dealing between them; so he went to the Provost and
bade him farewell; and he said to him, 'Give the thousand dinars to my son Alaeddin,' and commended
the latter to his care, saying, 'He is as it were thy son.' Accordingly, Alaeddin joined company
with Mehmoud, who charged the youth's cook to dress nothing for him, but himself provided him
and his company with meat and drink. Now he had four houses, one at Cairo, another at Damascus,
a third at Aleppo and a fourth at Baghdad. So they set out and journeyed over deserts and plains,
till they drew near Damascus, when Mehmoud sent his servant to Alaeddin, whom he found reading.
He went up to him and kissed his hands, and Alaeddin asked him what he sought. 'My master salutes
thee,' answered the slave, 'and craves thy company to a banquet in his house.' Quoth the youth,
'I must consult my father Kemaleddin, the captain of the caravan.' So he consulted the muleteer,
who said, 'Do not go.' Then they left Damascus and journeyed on till they came to Aleppo, where
Mehmoud made a second entertainment and sent to bid Alaeddin; but the muleteer again forbade
him. Then they departed Aleppo and fared on, till they came within a day's journey of Baghdad.
Here Mehmoud repeated his invitation a third time and Kemaleddin once more forbade Alaeddin
to accept it; but the latter said, 'I must needs go.' So he rose and girding on a sword under
his clothes, repaired to the tent of Mehmoud of Balkh, who came to meet him and saluted him.
Then he set a sumptuous repast before him, and they ate and drank and washed their hands. Presently,
Mehmoud bent towards Alaeddin, to kiss him, but the youth received the kiss on his hand and
said to him, 'What wilt thou do?' Quoth Mehmoud, 'I brought thee hither that I might do delight
with thee in this jousting-ground, and we will comment the words of him who saith:

Can't be thou wilt with us a momentling alight, Like to an
     ewekin's milk or what not else of white,
And cat what liketh thee of dainty wastel-bread And take what
     thou mayst get of silver small and bright
And bear off what thou wilt, sans grudging or constraint,
     Spanling or full-told span or fistling filled outright?'

Then he would have laid hands on Alaeddin; but he rose and drawing his sword, said to him,
'Shame on thy gray hairs! Hast thou no fear of God, and He of exceeding great might?[FN#94]
May He have mercy on him who saith:

Look thou thy hoariness preserve from aught that may it stain,
     For whiteness still to take attaint is passing quick and
     fain.

This merchandise,' added he, 'is a trust from God and may not be sold. If I sold it to other
than thee for gold, I would sell it thee for silver: but, by Allah, O filthy one, I will never
again company with thee!' Then he returned to Kemaleddin and said to him, 'Yonder man is a
lewd fellow and I will no longer consort with him nor suffer his company by the way.' 'O my
son,' replied the muleteer, 'did I not forbid thee to go with him? But if we part company with
him, I fear destruction for ourselves; so let us still make one caravan.' But Alaeddin said,
'It may not be: I will never again travel with him.' So he loaded his beasts and journeyed
onward, he and his company, till they came to a valley, where Alaeddin would have halted, but
the muleteer said to him, 'Do not halt here; rather let us fare forward and quicken our pace,
so haply we may reach Baghdad before the gates are closed, for they open and shut them with
the sun, for fear the schismatics should take the city and throw the books of learning into
the Tigris.' 'O my father,' replied Alaeddin, 'I came not to Baghdad with this merchandise,
for the sake of traffic, but to divert myself with the sight of foreign lands.' And Kemaleddin
rejoined, 'O my son, we fear for thee and for thy goods from the wild Arabs.' But he answered,
'Harkye, sirrah, art thou master or servant? I will not enter Baghdad till the morning, that
the townsfolk may see my merchandise and know me.' 'Do as thou wilt,' said the muleteer; 'I
have given thee good counsel, and thou must judge for thyself.' Then Alaeddin bade them unload
the mules and pitch the tent; so they did his bidding and abode there till the middle of the
night, when the youth went out to do an occasion and seeing something gleaming afar off, said
to Kemaleddin, 'O captain, what is yonder glittering?' The muleteer sat up and considering
it straitly, knew it for the glint of spear-heads and Bedouin swords and harness. Now this
was a troop of Bedouins under a chief called Ajlan Abou Naib, Sheikh of the Arabs, and when
the neared the camp and saw the baggage, they said, one to another, 'O night of booty!' Quoth
Kemaleddin, 'Avaunt, O meanest of Arabs!' But Abou Naib smote him with his javelin in the breast,
that the point came out gleaming from his back, and he fell down dead at the tent-door. Then
cried the water-carrier, 'Avaunt, O foulest of Arabs!' and one of them smote him with a sword
upon the shoulder, that it issued shining from the tendons of the throat and he also fell slain.
Then the Bedouins fell upon the caravan from all sides and slew the whole company except Alaeddin,
after which they loaded the mules with the spoil and made off. Quoth Alaeddin to himself, 'Thy
dress and mule will be the death of thee.' So he put off his cassock and threw it over the
back of a mule, remaining in his shirt and drawers alone; after which he went to the door of
the tent and finding there a pool of blood from the slain, rolled himself in it, till he was
as a slain man, drowned in his blood. Meanwhile Ajlan said to his men, 'O Arabs, was this caravan
bound from Egypt for Baghdad or from Baghdad for Egypt?' 'It was bound from Egypt for Baghdad,'
answered they. 'Then,' said he, 'return to the slain, for methinks the owner of the caravan
is not dead.' So they turned back and fell to larding the slain with lance and sword-thrusts,
[lest any life were left in them,] till they came to Alaeddin, who had laid himself among the
dead bodies. Quoth they, 'Thou dost but feign thyself dead, but we will make an end of thee.'
So one of the Bedouins drew his javelin and should have plunged it into his breast. But he
cried out, 'Save me, O my lord Abdulcadir!' and behold, he saw a hand turn the lance away from
his breast to that of the muleteer, so that it pierced the latter and spared himself. Then
the Bedouins made off; and when Alaeddin saw that the birds were flown with their purchase,
he rose and set off running; but Abou Naib looked back and said, 'O Arabs, I see somewhat moving.'
So one of the Bedouins turned back and spying Alaeddin running, called out to him, saying,
'Flight shall not avail thee, and we after thee;' and he smote his mare with his fist and pricked
after him. Then Alaeddin, seeing before him a watering tank and a cistern beside it, climbed
up into a niche in the cistern and stretching himself along, feigned sleep and said, 'O gracious
Protector, cover me with the veil of Thy protection, that may not be torn away!' Presently,
the Bedouin came up to the cistern and standing in his stirrups put out one hand to lay hold
of Alaeddin; but he said 'Save me, O my lady Nefiseh![FN#95] Now is thy time!' And behold,
a scorpion stung the Bedouin in the palm and he cried out, saying, 'Help, O Arabs! I am stung;'
and fell off his mare. His comrades came up to him and set him on horseback again, saying,
'What hath befallen thee?' Quoth he, 'A scorpion stung me.' And they departed, leaving Alaeddin
in the niche.

Meanwhile, Mehmoud of Balkh loaded his beasts and fared on till he came to the Valley of Dogs,
where he found Alaeddin's men lying slain. At this he rejoiced and went on till he reached
the reservoir. Now his mule was athirst and turned aside to drink, but took fright at Alaeddin's
shadow in the water and started; whereupon Mehmoud raised his eyes and seeing Alaeddin lying
in the niche, stripped to his shirt and trousers, said to him, 'Who hath dealt thus with thee
and left thee in this ill plight?' 'The Bedouins,' answered Alaeddin, and Mehmoud said, 'O
my son, the mules and the baggage were thy ransom; so do thou comfort thyself with the saying
of the poet:

So but a man may win to save his soul alive from death, But as
     the paring of his nail his wealth he reckoneth.

But now, O my son,' continued he, 'come down and fear no hurt.' So he came down from the niche
and Mehmoud mounted him on a mule and fared on with him, till they reached Baghdad, where he
brought him to his own house and bade his servants carry him to the bath, saying to him, 'O
my son, the goods and money were the ransom of thy life; but, if thou wilt harken to me, I
will give thee the worth of that thou hast lost, twice told.' When he came out of the bath,
Mehmoud carried him into a saloon with four estrades, decorated with gold, and let bring a
tray of all manner meats. So they ate and drank and Mehmoud turned to Alaeddin and would have
taken a kiss of him; but he received it upon his hand and said, 'Dost thou persist in thy evil
designs upon me? Did I not tell thee that, were I wont to sell this merchandise to other than
thee for gold, I would sell it thee for silver?' Quoth Mehmoud, 'I will give thee neither mule
nor clothes nor merchandise save at this price; for I am mad for love of thee, and God bless
him who said:

Abou Bilal his saw of an object of love, Which from one of his
     elders himself did derive
"The lover's not healed of the pangs of desire By clips nor by
     kisses, excepting he swive."

'This may never be,' replied Alaeddin. 'Take back thy dress and thy mule and open the door,
that I may go out.' So he opened the door, and Alaeddin went forth and walked on, with the
dogs yelping at his heels, till he saw the door of a mosque open and going in, took shelter
in the vestibule. Presently, he espied a light approaching and examining it, saw that it came
from a pair of lanterns borne by two slaves before two merchants, an old man of comely aspect
and a youth. He heard the latter say to the other, 'O my uncle, I conjure thee by Allah, give
me back my wife!' The old man replied, 'Did I not warn thee, many a time, when the oath of
divorce was always in thy mouth, as it were thy Koran?' Then he turned and seeing Alaeddin,
as he were a piece of the moon, said to him, 'Who art thou, O my son?' Quoth he, 'I am Alaeddin,
son of Shemseddin, Provost of the merchants at Cairo. I besought my father for merchandise;
so he packed me fifty loads of goods and gave me ten thousand dinars, wherewith I set out for
Baghdad; but when I came to the Lion's Copse, the Bedouins fell upon me and took all I had.
So I entered this city, knowing not where to pass the night, and seeing this place, I took
shelter here.' 'O my son,' said the old man, 'what sayst thou to a thousand dinars and a suit
of clothes and a mule worth other two thousand?' 'To what end wilt thou give me this?' asked
Alaeddin, and the other answered, 'This young man, whom thou seest, is the only son of my brother
and I have an only daughter called Zubeideh the Lutanist, who is endowed with beauty and grace.
I married her to him and he loves her, but she hates him. Now he took an oath of triple divorcement
and broke it.[FN#96] As soon as she heard of this, she left him, and he egged on all the folk
to intercede with me to restore her to him; but I told him that this could not lawfully be
done but by an intermediate marriage, and we have agreed to make some stranger the intermediary,
so none may taunt him with this affair. So, as thou art a stranger, come with us and we will
marry thee to her; thou shalt lie with her to-night and on the morrow divorce her, and we will
give thee what I said.' 'By Allah,' quoth Alaeddin to himself, 'it were better to pass the
night with a bride on a bed in a house, than in the streets and vestibules!' So he went with
them to the Cadi, who, as soon as he saw Alaeddin, was moved to love of him and said to the
old man, 'What is your will?' Quoth he, 'We wish to marry this young man to my daughter, as
an intermediary, and the contract is to be for ten thousand dinars, dowry precedent, for which
he shall give us a bond. If he divorce her in the morning, we will give him a thousand dinars
and a mule and dress worth other two thousand; but if he divorce her not, he shall pay down
the ten thousand dinars, according to the bond.' The Cadi drew up the marriage contract to
this effect and the lady's father took a bond for the dowry. Then he took Alaeddin and clothing
him anew, carried him to his daughter's house, where he left him at the door, whilst he himself
went in to the young lady and gave her the bond, saying, 'Take the bond of thy dowry, for I
have married thee to a handsome youth by name Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat; so do thou use him
with all consideration.' Then he left her and went to his own lodging. Now the lady's cousin
had an old waiting- woman, to whom he had done many a kindness and who used to visit Zubeideh;
so he said to her, 'O my mother, if my cousin Zubeideh see this handsome young man, she will
never after accept of me; so I would fain have thee contrive to keep them apart.' 'By thy youth,'
answered she, 'I will not suffer him to approach her!' Then she went to Alaeddin and said to
him, 'O my son, I have a warning to give thee, for the love of God the Most High, and do thou
follow my advice, for I fear for thee from this damsel: let her lie alone and handle her not
nor draw near to her.' 'Why so?' asked he, and she answered, 'Because her body is full of elephantiasis
and I fear lest she infect thy fair youth.' Quoth he, 'I have no need of her.' Moreover, she
went to the lady and said the like to her of Alaeddin; and she replied, 'I have no need of
him, but will let him lie alone, and on the morrow he shall go his way.' Then she called a
slave-girl and said to her, 'Take him the tray of food, that he may sup.' So the maid carried
him the tray of food and set it before him, and he ate his fill; after which he sat down and
fell to reciting the chapter called Ya-sin[FN#97] in a sweet voice. The lady listened to him
and found his voice as melodious as the psalms of David, which when she heard, she exclaimed,
'Beshrew the old hag that told me that he was affected with leprosy! Surely, that is a lie
against him, for this is not the voice of one who hath such a disease.' Then she took a lute
of Indian workmanship and tuning it, sang the following verses, in a voice, whose music would
stay the birds in mid-heaven:

I am enamoured of a fawn with black and languorous eyes;    The
     willow-branches, as he goes, are jealous of him still.
Me he rejects and others 'joy his favours in my stead. This is
     indeed the grace of God He gives to whom He will.

As soon as he had finished his recitation, he sang the following verse in reply:

My salutation to the shape that through the wede doth show And to
     the roses in the cheeks' full-flowering meads that blow!

When she heard this, her inclination for him redoubled and she rose and lifted the curtain;
and Alaeddin, seeing her, repeated these verses:

She shineth forth, a moon, and bends, a willow-wand, And breathes
     out ambergris and gazes, a gazelle.
Meseems as if grief loved my heart and when from her Estrangement
     I abide, possession to it fell.

Thereupon she came forward, swinging her hips and swaying gracefully from side to side with
a shape the handiwork of Him whose bounties are hidden, and each of them stole a glance at
the other, that cost them a thousand regrets. Then, for that the arrows of her glances overcame
his heart, he repeated the following verses:

The moon of the heavens she spied and called to my thought The
     nights of our loves in the meadows under her shine.

Then said he to her, 'Keep off from me, lest thou infect me.' Whereupon she uncovered her wrist
to him, and he saw that it was cleft [like a peach] and its whiteness was as the whiteness
of silver. Then said she, 'Hold off from me, thou, for thou art stricken with leprosy, and
belike thou wilt infect me.' 'Who told thee I was a leper?' asked he, and she said, 'The old
woman.' Quoth he, 'It was she told me that thou wast afflicted with elephantiasis.' So saying,
he bared his arms and showed her that his skin was like virgin silver, whereupon she pressed
him to her bosom and they clipped one another. Then she took him and lying down on her back,
did off her trousers, whereupon that which his father had left him rose up [in rebellion] against
him and he said, 'To it, O elder of yards, O father of nerves!' And putting his hands to her
flanks, set the nerve of sweetness to the mouth of the cleft and thrust on to the wicket-gate.
His passage was by the gate of victories [or openings] and after this he entered the Monday
market and those of Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and finding the carpet after the measure
of the estrade, he plied [or turned] the box within its sheath [or cover] till he came to [the
end of] it.[FN#100] When it was morning, he exclaimed, 'Alas for delight that is not fulfilled!
The raven[FN#101] takes it and flies away!' 'What means this saying?' asked she, and he answered,
'O my lady, I have but this hour to abide with thee.' Quoth she, 'Who saith so?' and he, 'Thy
father made me give him a bond to pay ten thousand dinars to thy dowry; and except I pay it
this very day, they will lay me in prison therefor in the Cadi's house; and now my hand lacketh
one para of the sum.' 'O my lord,' said she, 'is the marriage bond in thy hand or in theirs?'
'In mine,' answered he, 'but I have nothing.' Quoth she, 'The matter is easy; fear nothing.
Take these hundred dinars; if I had more, I would give thee what thou lackest; but my father,
for his love of my cousin, hath transported all his good, even to my trinkets, from my lodging
to his. But when they send thee a serjeant of the court and the Cadi and my father bid thee
divorce, answer thou, "By what code is it right that I should marry at nightfall and divorce
in the morning?" Then kiss the Cadi's hand and give him a present, and in like manner kiss
the Assessors' hands and give each of them half a score dinars. So they will all speak with
thee and if they say to thee, "Why dost thou not divorce her and take the thousand dinars and
the mule and suit of clothes, according to contract?" do thou answer, "Every hair of her head
is worth a thousand dinars to me and I will never put her away, neither will I take a suit
of clothes nor aught else." If the Cadi say to thee, "Then pay down the dowry," do thou reply,
"I am straitened at this present;" whereupon he and the Assessors will deal friendly with thee
and allow thee time to pay.' Whilst they were talking, the Cadi's officer knocked at the door;
so Alaeddin went down and the man said to him, 'The Cadi cites thee to answer thy father-in-law's
summons.' Alaeddin gave him five dinars and said to him, 'O serjeant, by what code am I bound
to marry at night and divorce next morning?' 'By none of ours,' answered the serjeant; 'and
if thou be ignorant of the law, I will act as thine advocate.' Then they went to the court
and the Cadi said to Alaeddin, 'Why dost thou not divorce the woman and take what falls to
thee by the contract?' With this he went up to the Cadi and kissing his hand, put in it fifty
dinars and said, 'O our lord the Cadi, by what code is it right that I should marry at night
and divorce in the morning in my own despite?' 'Divorce on compulsion,' replied the Cadi, 'is
sanctioned by no school of the Muslims.' Then said the lady's father, 'If thou wilt not divorce,
pay me the ten thousand dinars, her dowry.' Quoth Alaeddin, 'Give me three days' time.' But
the Cadi said, 'Three days is not enough; he shall give thee ten.' So they agreed to this and
bound him to pay the dowry or divorce after ten days. Then he left them and taking meat and
rice and butter and what else of food he needed, returned to his wife and told her what had
passed; whereupon she said, 'Between night and day, wonders may happen: and God bless him who
saith:

Be mild what time thou'rt ta'en with anger and despite And
     patient, if there fall misfortune on thy head.
Indeed, the nights are quick and great with child by time And of
     all wond'rous things are hourly brought to bed.

Then she rose and made ready food and brought the tray, and they ate and drank and made merry
awhile. Presently, Alaeddin besought her to let him hear some music; so she took the lute and
played a measure, that would have made the very rock dance for delight, and the strings cried
out, in ecstasy, 'O Loving One!'[FN#102] after which she passed into a livelier measure. As
they were thus passing the time in mirth and delight, there came a knocking at the door and
Zubeideh said to Alaeddin, 'Go and see who is at the door.' So he went down and finding four
dervishes standing without, said to them, 'What do you want?' 'O my lord,' answered they, 'we
are foreign dervishes, the food of whose souls is music and dainty verse, and we would fain
take our pleasure with thee this night. On the morrow we will go our way, and with God the
Most High be thy reward; for we adore music and there is not one of us but hath store of odes
and songs and ballads.' 'I must consult [my wife],' answered he and returned and told Zubeideh,
who said, 'Open the door to them.' So he went down again and bringing them up, made them sit
down and welcomed them. Then he brought them food, but they would not eat and said, 'O my lord,
our victual is to magnify God with out hearts and hear music with our ears: and God bless him
who saith:

We come for your company only, and not for your feasts; For
     eating for eating's sake is nought but a fashion of beasts.

Just now,' added they, 'we heard pleasant music here; but when we knocked, it ceased; and we
would fain know whether the player was a slave-girl, white of black, or a lady.' 'It was this
my wife,' answered he and told them all that had befallen him, adding, 'My father-in-law hath
bound me to pay a dowry of ten thousand dinars for her and they have given me ten days' time.'
'Have no care and think nought but good,' said one of the dervishes; 'for I am head of the
convent and have forty dervishes under my hand. I will gather thee from them the ten thousand
dinars and thou shalt pay thy father-in-law the dowry. But now bid thy wife make us music,
that we may be heartened and solaced, for to some music is food, to others medicine and to
others refreshment.'[FN#103] Now these four dervishes were none other than the Khalif Haroun
er Reshid and his Vizier Jaafer the Barmecide and Abou Nuwas ben Hani[FN#104] and Mesrour the
headsman; and the reason of their coming thither was that the Khalif, being heavy at heart,
had called his Vizier and signified to him his wish to go forth and walk about the city, to
divert himself. So they all four donned dervish habits and went out and walked about, till
they came to Zubeideh's house and hearing music, were minded to know the cause. They spent
the night in mirth and harmony and discourse, till the morning, when the Khalif laid a hundred
dinars under the prayer-carpet and taking leave of Alaeddin, went his way, he and his companions.
Presently, Zubeideh lifted the carpet and finding the hundred dinars, gave them to her husband,
saying, 'Take these hundred dinars that I have found under the prayer-carpet; the dervishes
must have laid them there, without our knowledge.' So he took the money and repairing to the
market, bought meat and rice and butter and so forth. When it was night, he lighted the candled
and said to Zubeideh, 'The dervishes have not brought the ten thousand dinars that they promised
me: but indeed they are poor men.' As they were talking, the dervishes knocked at the door
and she said, 'Go down and open to them.' So he went down and bringing them up, said to them,
'Have you brought me the ten thousand dinars?' 'We have not been able to get aught thereof
as yet,' answered they, 'but fear nothing: to-morrow, God willing, we will make an alchymic
operation for thee. But now bid thy wife play her best to us and gladden our hearts, for we
love music.' So she made them music, that would have caused the very rocks to dance; and they
passed the night in mirth and converse and good cheer, till the morning appeared with its light
and shone, when they took leave of Alaeddin and went their way, after laying other hundred
dinars under the carpet. They continued to visit him thus every night for nine nights, and
each morning the Khalif put a hundred dinars under the prayer-carpet, till the tenth night,
when they came not. Now the reason for their failure to come was that the Khalif had sent to
a great merchant, saying to him, 'Bring me fifty loads of stuffs, such as come from Cairo,
each worth a thousand dinars, and write on each bale its price; and bring me also a male Abyssinian
slave.' The merchant did the bidding of the Khalif, who write a letter to Alaeddin, as from
his father Shemseddin, and committed it to the slave, together with the fifty loads and a basin
and ewer of gold and other presents, saying to him, 'Take these bales and what else and go
to such and such a quarter and enquire for Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat, at the house of the Provost
of the merchants.' So the slave took the letter and the goods and went out on his errand.

Meanwhile the lady's first husband went to her father and said to him, 'Come, let us go to
Alaeddin and make him divorce my cousin.' So they set out, and when they came to the street
in which Zubeideh's house stood, they found fifty mules, laden with stuffs, and a black slave
riding on a she-mule. So they said to him, 'Whose goods are these?' 'They belong to my lord
Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat,' answered he. 'His father equipped him with merchandise and sent
him on a journey to Baghdad; but the Bedouins fell on him and took all he had. So when the
news of his despoilment reached his father, he despatched me to him with these fifty loads,
in place of those he had lost, besides a mule laden with fifth thousand dinars and a parcel
of clothes worth much money and a cloak of sables and a basin and ewer of gold.' When the old
merchant heard this, he said, 'He whom thou seekest is my son-in-law and I will show thee his
house.' Now Alaeddin was sitting in great concern, when one knocked at the door, and he said,
'O Zubeideh, God is all-knowing! Thy father hath surely sent me an officer from the Cadi or
the Chief of the Police.' 'Go down,' said she, 'and see what it is.' So he went down and opening
the door, found his father-in-law, with an Abyssinian slave, dusky-hued and pleasant of favour,
riding on a mule. When the slave saw him, he alighted and kissed his hands: and Alaeddin said,
'What dost thou want?' Quoth he, 'I am the slave of my load Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat, son of
Shemseddin, Provost of the merchants of Cairo, who has sent me to him with this charge.' Then
he gave him the letter and Alaeddin, opening it, read what follows:

Harkye, my letter, when my beloved sees thee, Kiss thou the earth
     before him and his shoes.
Look thou go softly and hasten not nor hurry, For in his hands
     are my life and my repose.

Then after the usual salutations from Shemseddin to his son, the letter proceeded thus: 'Know,
O my son, that news hath reached me of the slaughter of thy men and the plunder of thy baggage;
so I send thee herewith fifty loads of Egyptian stuffs, together with a suit of clothes and
a cloak of sables and an ewer and basin of gold. Fear no evil and be not anywise troubled,
for, O my son, the goods thou hast lost were the ransom of thy life. Thy mother and the people
of the house are well and in good case and send thee many greetings. Moreover, O my son, I
hear that they have married thee, by way of intermediation, to the lady Zubeideh the Lutanist
and have imposed on thee a dowry of ten thousand dinars; wherefore I send thee also fifty thousand
dinars by thy slave Selim, the bearer of these presents, whereout thou mayest pay the dowry
and provide thyself with the rest.' When Alaeddin had made an end of reading the letter, he
took possession of the goods and turning to the old merchant, said to him, 'O my father-in-law,
take the ten thousand dinars, thy daughter's dowry, and take also the loads of goods and dispose
of them, and thine be the profit; only return me the cost-price.' 'Nay, by Allah,' answered
he, 'I will take nothing; and as for thy wife's dowry, do thou settle it with her.' Then they
went in to Zubeideh, after the goods had been brought in, and she said to her father, 'O my
father, whose goods are these?' 'They belong to thy husband Alaeddin,' answered he; 'his father
hath sent them to him in place of those of which the Bedouins spoiled him. Moreover, he hath
sent him fifty thousand dinars and a parcel of clothes and a cloak of sables and a riding mule
and an ewer and basin of gold. As for the dower, that is thine affair.' Thereupon Alaeddin
rose and opening the chest [of money] gave her her dowry. Then said the lady's cousin, 'O my
uncle, let him divorce to me my wife;' but the old man replied, 'This may never be now, for
the marriage-tie is in his hand.' With this the young man went out, sore afflicted, and returning
home, fell sick, for he had received his death-blow; so he took to his bed and presently died.
But as for Alaeddin, he went to the market and buying what victual he needed, made a banquet
as usual against the night, saying to Zubeideh, 'See these lying dervishes; they promised us
and broke their promise.' Quoth she, 'Thou art the son of a Provost of the merchants yet did
thy hand lack of a para; how then should it be with poor dervishes?' 'God the Most High hath
enabled us to do without them,' answered Alaeddin; 'but never again will I open the door to
them.' 'Why so,' asked she, 'seeing that their coming brought us good luck, and moreover, they
put a hundred dinars under the prayer-carpet for us every night? So needs must thou open to
them, if they come.' So when the day departed with its light and the night came, they lighted
the candles and he said to her, 'Come, Zubeideh, make us music.' At this moment some one knocked
at the door, and she said, 'Go and see who is at the door.' So he went down and opened it and
seeing the dervishes, said, 'Welcome to the liars! Come up.' Accordingly, they went up with
him, and he made them sit down and brought them the tray of food. So they ate and drank and
made merry and presently said to him, 'O my lord, our hearts have been troubled for thee: what
hath passed between thee and thy father-in-law?' 'God hath compensated us beyond our desire,'
answered he. 'By Allah,' rejoined they, 'we were in fear for thee and nought kept us from thee
but our lack of money.' Quoth he, 'My Lord hath vouchsafed me speedy relief; for my father
hath sent me fifty thousand dinars and fifty loads of stuffs, each worth a thousand dinars,
besides an Abyssinian slave and a riding mule and a suit of clothes and a basin and an ewer
of gold. Moreover, I have made my peace with my father-in- law and my wife is confirmed to
me; so praised be God for this!' Presently the Khalif rose to do an occasion; whereupon Jaafer
turned to Alaeddin and said to him, 'Look to thy manners, for thou art in the presence of the
Commander of the Faithful.' 'How have I failed in good breeding before the Commander of the
Faithful,' asked he, 'and which of you is he?' Quoth Jaafer, 'He who went out but now is the
Commander of the Faithful and I am the Vizier Jaafer: this is Mesrour the headsman, and this
other is Abou Nuwas ben Hani. And now, O Alaeddin, use thy reason and bethink thee how many
days' journey it is from Cairo hither.' 'Five-and-forty days' journey,' answered he, and Jaafer
rejoined, 'Thy baggage was stolen but ten days ago; so how could the news have reached thy
father, and how could he pack thee up other goods and send them to thee five-and-forty days'
journey in ten days' time?' 'O my lord,' said Alaeddin, 'and whence then came they?' 'From
the Commander of the Faithful,' replied Jaafer, 'of his much affection for thee.' As he spoke,
the Khalif entered and Alaeddin, rising, kissed the ground before him and said, 'God keep thee,
O Commander of the Faithful, and give thee long life, so the folk may not lack thy bounty and
beneficence!' 'O Alaeddin,' replied the Khalif, 'let Zubeideh play us an air, by way of thank-offering
for thy deliverance.' So she played him the rarest of measures on the lute, till the very stones
shook for delight and the strings cried out for ecstasy, 'O Loving One!'[FN#105] They spent
the night after the merriest fashion, and in the morning, the Khalif said to Alaeddin, 'Come
to the Divan to-morrow.' 'I hear and obey, O Commander of the Faithful,' answered he, 'so it
please God and thou be well and in good case.' So on the morrow he took ten trays and putting
a costly present on each, went up with them to the palace. As the Khalif was sitting on the
throne, Alaeddin appeared at the door of the Divan, repeating the following verses:

Good fortune and glory still wait on thy days And rubbed in the
     dust be thine envier's nose!
May the days never stint to be white unto thee And black with
     despite be the days of thy foes!

'Welcome, O Alaeddin!' sad the Khalif, and he replied, 'O Commander of the Faithful, the Prophet
(whom God bless and preserve) accepted presents; and these ten trays, with what is on them,
are my present to thee.' The Khalif accepted his gift and ordering him a robe of honour, made
him Provost of the merchants and gave him a seat in the Divan. Presently, his father-in-law
came in, and seeing Alaeddin seated in his place and clad in a robe of honour, said to the
Khalif, 'O King of the age, why is this man sitting in my place and wearing this robe of honour?'
Quoth the Khalif, 'I have made him Provost of the merchants, and thou art deposed; for offices
are by investiture and not in perpetuity.' 'Thou hast done well, O Commander of the Faithful,'
answered the merchant; 'for he is art and part of us. May God make the best of us the orderers
of our affairs! How many a little one hath become great!' Then the Khalif wrote Alaeddin a
patent [of investiture] and gave it to the Master of Police, who gave it to the crier and the
latter made proclamation in the Divan, saying, 'None is Provost of the merchants but Alaeddin
Abou esh Shamat, and it behoves all to give heed to his words and pay him respect and honour
and consideration!' Moreover, when the Divan broke up, the Master of the Police took Alaeddin
and carried him through the thoroughfares of Baghdad, whilst the crier went before him, making
proclamation of his dignity. Next day, Alaeddin opened a shop for his slave Selim and set him
therein, to buy and sell, whilst he himself rode to the palace and took his place in the Khalif's
Divan.

One day, as he sat in his place, one said to the Khalif, 'O Commander of the Faithful, may
thy head survive such an one the boon-companion! He is gone to the mercy of God the Most High,
but may thy life be prolonged!' Quoth the Khalif, 'Where is Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat?' So he
went up to the Commander of the Faithful, who clad him in a splendid dress of honour and made
him his boon- companion in the dead man's room, appointing him a monthly wage of a thousand
dinars. He continued to fill his new office till, one day, as he sat in the Divan, according
to his wont, an Amir came up with a sword and shield in his hand and said, 'O Commander of
the Faithful, mayst thou outlive the Chief of the Sixty, for he is this day dead;' whereupon
the Khalif ordered Alaeddin a dress of honour and made him Chief of the Sixty, in place of
the dead man, who had neither wife nor child. So Alaeddin laid hands on his estate, and the
Khalif said to him, 'Bury him in the earth and take all he hath left of wealth and slaves,
male and female.' Then he shook the handkerchief and dismissed the Divan, whereupon Alaeddin
went forth, attended by Ahmed ed Denef, captain of the right hand, and Hassan Shouman, captain
of the left hand troop of the Khalif's guard, riding at his either stirrup, each with his forty
men. Presently, he turned to Hassan Shouman and his men and said to them, 'Plead ye for me
with Captain Ahmed ed Denef, that he accept me as his son before God.' And Ahmed ed Denef assented,
saying, 'I and my forty men will go before thee to the Divan every day.'

After this, Alaeddin abode in the Khalif's service many days; till one day it chanced that
he left the Divan and returning home, dismissed Ahmed ed Denef and his men and sat down with
his wife, who lighted the candles and went out of the room upon an occasion. Presently, he
heard a great cry and running in haste to see what was the matter, found that it was his wife
who had cried out. She was lying prone on the groudn and when he put his hand to her breast,
he found her dead. Now her father's house faced that of Alaeddin, and he, hearing her cry out,
came in and said, 'What is the matter, O my lord Alaeddin?' 'O my father,' answered he, 'may
thy head outlive thy daughter Zubeideh! But the honour we owe the dead is to bury them.' So,
on the morrow, they buried her in the earth and her husband and father condoled with each other.
Moreover, Alaeddin put on mourning apparel and absented himself from the Divan, abiding tearful-eyed
and sorrowful- hearted. After awhile, the Khalif said to Jaafer, 'O Vizier, what is the cause
of Alaeddin's absence from the Divan?' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered Jaafer, 'he
is in mourning for his wife Zubeideh;' and the Khalif said, 'It behoves us to pay him a visit
of condolence.' 'I hear and obey,' replied Jaafer. So they took horse and riding to Alaeddin's
house, came in upon him with their attendants, as he sat at home; whereupon he rose to receive
them and kissed the earth before the Khalif, who said to him, 'May God abundantly make good
thy loss to thee!' 'May He preserve thee to us, O Commander of the Faithful!' answered Alaeddin.
Then said the Khalif, 'O Alaeddin, why hast thou absented thyself from the Divan?' And he replied,
'Because of my mourning for my wife Zubeideh, O Commander of the Faithful.' 'Put away grief
from thee,' rejoined the prince. 'She is dead and gone to the mercy of God the Most High, and
mourning will avail thee nothing.' But Alaeddin said, 'O Commander of the Faithful, I shall
never leave mourning for her till I die and they bury me by her side.' Quoth Haroun, 'With
God is compensation for every loss, and neither wealth nor device can deliver from death. God
bless him who said:

Every son of woman, how long soe'er his life be, Must one day be
     carried upon the bulging bier.
How shall he have pleasure in life or hold it goodly, He unto
     whose cheeks the dust must soon adhere?'

Then, when he had made an end of condoling with him, he charged him not to absent himself from
the Divan and returned to his palace. On the morrow, Alaeddin mounted and riding to the court,
kissed the ground before the Khalif, who rose from the throne, to greet and welcome him, and
bade him take his appointed place in the Divan saying, 'O Alaeddin, thou art my guest to-night.'
So presently he carried him into his seraglio and calling a slave- girl named Cout el Culoub,
said to her, 'Alaeddin had a wife called Zubeideh, who used to sing to him and solace him of
care and trouble; but she is gone to the mercy of God the Most High, and now I desire that
thou play him an air of thy rarest fashion on the lute, that he may be diverted from his grief
and mourning.' So she rose and made rare music; and the Khalif said to Alaeddin, 'What sayst
thou of this damsel's voice?' 'O Commander of the Faithful', answered he, 'Zubeideh's voice
was the finer; but she is rarely skilled in touching the lute, and her playing would make a
rock dance.' 'Doth she please thee?' asked the Khalif. 'Yes, O Commander of the Faithful,'
answered Alaeddin, and Haroun said, 'By the life of my head and the tombs of my forefathers,
she is a gift from me to thee, she and her waiting-women!' Alaeddin thought that the Khalif
was jesting with him; but, on the morrow, he went in to Cout el Culoub and said to her, 'I
have given thee to Alaeddin;' whereat she rejoiced, for she had seen and loved him. Then the
Khalif returned to the Divan and calling porters, said to them, 'Set Cout el Culoub and her
waiting-women in a litter and carry them, together with her goods, to Alaeddin's house.' So
they did as he bade them and left her in the upper chamber of Alaeddin's house, whilst the
Khalif sat in the hall of audience till the close of the day, when the Divan broke up and he
retired to his harem.

Meanwhile, Cout el Culoub, having taken up her lodging in Alaeddin's house, with her women,
forty in all, besides eunuchs, called two of the latter and said to them, 'Sit ye on stools,
one on the right and another on the left hand of the door; and when Alaeddin comes home, kiss
his hands and say to him, "Our mistress Cout el Culoub bids thee to her in the upper chamber,
for the Khalif hath given her to thee, her and her women."' 'We hear and obey,' answered they
and did as she bade them. So, when Alaeddin returned, he found two of the Khalif's eunuchs
sitting at the door and was amazed and said to himself, 'Surely, this is not my own house;
or else what can have happened?' When the eunuchs saw him, they rose and kissing his hands,
said to him, 'We are of the Khalif's household and servants to Cout el Culoub, who salutes
thee, giving thee to know that the Khalif hath bestowed her on thee, her and her women, and
craves thy company.' Quoth Alaeddin, 'Say ye to her, "Thou art welcome; but so long as thou
abidest with me, I will not enter thy lodging, for it befits not that what was the master's
should become the servant's;" and ask her also what was the sum of her day's expense in the
Khalif's palace.' So they went in to her and did his errand to her, and she replied, 'A hundred
dinars a day;' whereupon quoth he in himself, 'There was no need for the Khalif to give me
Cout el Culoub, that I should be put to such an expense for her; but there is no help for it.'
So she abode with him awhile and he assigned her daily a hundred dinars for her maintenance,
till, one day, he absented himself from the Divan and the Khalif said to Jaafer, 'O Vizier,
I gave Cout el Culoub unto Alaeddin, that she might console him for his wife; but why doth
he still hold aloof from us?' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered Jaafer, 'he spoke sooth
who said, "Whoso findeth his beloved, forgetteth his friends."' 'Belike he hath excuse for
his absence,' rejoined the Khalif; 'but we will pay him a visit.' (Now some days before this,
Alaeddin had said to Jaafer, 'I complained to the Khalif of my grief for the loss of my wife
Zubeideh, and he gave me Cout el Culoub.' And Jaafer replied, 'Except he loved thee, he had
not given her to thee.' Hast thou gone in to her?' 'No, by Allah! answered Alaeddin. 'I know
not her length from her breadth.' 'And why?' asked Jaafer. 'O Vizier,' replied Alaeddin, 'what
befits the master befits not the servant.') Then the Khalif and Jaafer disguised themselves
and went privily to visit Alaeddin; but he knew them and rising to them, kissed the hands of
the Khalif, who looked at him and read trouble in his face. So he said to him, 'O Alaeddin,
whence cometh this trouble in which I see thee? Hast thou gone in to Cout el Culoub?' 'O Commander
of the Faithful,' answered he, 'what befits the master befits not the servant. No, I have not
gone in to her nor do I know her length from her breadth; so do thou quit me of her.' Quoth
the Khalif, 'I would fain see her and question her of her case.' And Alaeddin replied, 'I hear
and obey, O Commander of the Faithful.' So the Khalif went in to Cout el Culoub, who rose and
kissed the ground before him, and said to her, 'Hath Alaeddin gone in to thee?' 'No, O Commander
of the Faithful,' answered she; 'I sent to bid him to me, but he would not come.' So he bade
carry her back to the harem and saying to Alaeddin, 'Do not absent thyself from us,' returned
to his palace. Accordingly, next morning, Alaeddin mounted and rode to the Divan, where he
took his seat as Chief of the Sixty. Presently the Khalif bade his treasurer give the Vizier
Jaafer ten thousand dinars and said to the latter, 'I charge thee to go down to the slave-market
and buy Alaeddin a slave-girl with this sum.' So Jaafer took Alaeddin and went down with him
to the bazaar. As change would have it, that very day, the Amir Khalid, Chief of the Baghdad
Police, had gone down to the market to buy a slave-girl for his son Hebezlem Bezazeh. Now this
son he had by his wife Khatoun, and he was foul of favour and had reached the age of twenty,
without learning to ride, albeit his father was a valiant cavalier and a doughty champion and
delighted in battle and adventure. One night, he had a dream of dalliance in sleep and told
his mother, who rejoiced and told his father, saying, 'Fain would I find him a wife, for he
is now apt for marriage.' Quoth Khalid, 'He is so foul of favour and withal so evil of odour,
so sordid and churlish, that no woman would accept of him.' And she answered, 'We will buy
him a slave- girl.' So it befell, for the accomplishment of that which God the Most High had
decreed, that the Amir and his son went down, on the same day as Jaafer and Alaeddin, to the
market, where they saw a beautiful girl, full of grace and symmetry, in the hands of a broker,
and the Vizier said to the latter, 'O broker, ask her owner if he will take a thousand dinars
for her.' The broker passed by the Amir and his son with the slave and Hebezlem took one look
of her, that cost him a thousand sighs; and he fell passionately in love with her and said,
'O my father, buy me yonder slave-girl.' So the Amir called the broker, who brought the girl
to him, and asked her her name. 'My name is Jessamine,' replied she; and he said to Hebezlem,
'O my son, an she please thee, bid for her.' Then he asked the broker what had been bidden
for her and he replied, 'A thousand dinars.' 'She is mine for a thousand and one,' said Hebezlem,
and the broker passed on to Alaeddin, who bid two thousand dinars for her; and as often as
Hebezlem bid another dinar, Alaeddin bid a thousand. The Amir's son was vexed at this and said
to the broker, 'Who is it that bids against me for the slave-girl?' 'It is the Vizier Jaafer,'
answered the broker, 'who is minded to buy her for Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat.' Alaeddin continued
to bid for her till he brought her price up to ten thousand dinars, and her owner sold her
to him for that sum. So he took the girl and said to her, 'I give thee thy freedom for the
love of God the Most High.' Then he married her and carried her to his house. When the broker
returned, after having delivered the girl and received his brokerage, Hebezlem called him and
said to him, 'Where is the girl?' Quoth he, 'She was bought for ten thousand dinars by Alaeddin,
who hath set her free and married her.' At this the young man was greatly cast down and heaving
many a sigh, returned home, sick for love of the damsel. He threw himself on his bed and refused
food, and passion and love-longing were sore upon him. When his mother saw him in this plight,
she said to him, 'God keep thee, O my son! What ails thee?' And he answered, 'Buy me Jessamine,
O my mother.' 'When the flower-seller passes,' said she, 'I will buy thee a basketful of jessamine.'
Quoth he, 'It is not the jessamine one smells I want, but a slave girl named Jessamine, whom
my father would not buy for me.' So she said to her husband, 'Why didst thou not buy him the
girl?' And he replied, 'What is fit for the master is not fit for the servant, and I have no
power to take her; for no less a man bought her than Alaeddin, Chief of the Sixty.' Then the
youth's weakness redoubled upon him, till he could neither sleep nor eat, and his mother bound
her head with the fillets of mourning. Presently, as she sat at home, lamenting over her son,
there came in to her an old woman, known as the mother of Ahmed Kemakim the arch-thief, a knave
who would bore through the stoutest wall and scale the highest and steal the very kohl from
the eye. From his earliest years he had been given to these foul practices, till they made
him captain of the watch, when he committed a robbery and the Chief of the Police, taking him
in the act, carried him to the Khalif, who bade put him to death. But he sought protection
of the Vizier, whose intercession the Khalif never rejected; so he pleaded for him with the
Commander of the Faithful, who said, 'How canst thou intercede for a wretch who is the pest
of the human race?' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' replied Jaafer, 'do thou imprison him; he
who built the [first] prison was a sage, seeing that a prison is the sepulchre of the live
and a cause for their enemies to exult.' So the Khalif bade lay him in chains and write thereon,
'Appointed to remain until death and not to be loosed but on the bench of the washer of the
dead.' And they fettered him and cast him into prison. Now his mother was a frequent visitor
to the house of the Master of the Police and used to go in to her son in prison and say to
him, 'Did I not warn thee to turn from thy wicked ways?' 'God decreed this to me,' would he
answer; 'but, O my mother, when thou visitest the Amir's wife, make her intercede for me with
her husband.' So when the old woman came in to the Lady Khatoun, she found her bound with the
fillets of mourning and said to her, 'Wherefore dost thou mourn?' 'For my son Hebezlem Bezazeh,'
answered she, and the old woman exclaimed, 'God keep thy son! What hath befallen him?' So Khatoun
told her the whole story, and she said, 'What wouldst thou say of him who should find means
to save thy son?' 'And what wilt thou do?' asked the lady. Quoth the old woman, 'I have a son
called Ahmed Kemakim the arch-thief, who lies chained in prison, and on his fetters is written,
"Appointed to remain till death." So do thou don thy richest clothes and trinkets and present
thyself to thy husband with an open and smiling favour; and when he seeks of thee what men
use to seek of women, put him off and say, "By Allah, it is a strange thing! When a man desires
aught of his wife, he importunes her till she satisfies him; but if a wife desire aught of
her husband, he will not grant it to her." Then he will say, "What dost thou want?" And do
thou answer, "First swear to grant my request." If he swear to thee by his head or by Allah,
say to him, "Swear to me the oath of divorce," and so not yield to him, except he do this.
Then, if he swear to thee the oath of divorce, say to him, "Thou hast in prison a man called
Ahmed Kemakim, and he has a poor mother, who is instant with me to urge thee to intercede for
him with the Khalif, that he may relent towards him and thou earn a reward from God."' 'I hear
and obey,' answered Khatoun. So when her husband came in to her, she did as the old woman had
taught her and extorted the required oath from him, before she would yield to his wishes. He
lay with her that night and on the morrow, after he had made his ablutions and prayed the morning
prayers, he repaired to the prison and said to Ahmed Kemakim, 'Harkye, O arch-thief, dost thou
repent of thy ill deeds?' 'I do indeed repent and turn to God,' answered he, 'and say with
heart and tongue, "I ask pardon of Allah."' So he carried him, still chained, to the Divan
and kissed the earth before the Khalif, who said to him, 'O Amir Khalid, what seekest thou?'
Then he brought forward Ahmed Kemakim, shuffling in his fetters, and the Khalif said to him,
'O Kemakim, art thou yet alive?' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' answered he, 'the wretched
are long-lived.' Then said the Khalif to the Amir, 'Why have thou brought him hither?' And
he replied, 'O Commander of the Faithful, he hath a poor, desolate mother, who hath none but
him, and she hath had recourse to thy slave, imploring him to intercede with thee to set him
free and make him Captain of the Watch as before; for he repenteth of his evil courses.' Quoth
the Khalif to Ahmed, 'Dost thou repent of thy sins?' 'I do indeed repent to God, O Commander
of the Faithful,' answered he; whereupon the Khalif called for the blacksmith and made him
strike off his irons on the bench of the washer of the dead. Moreover, he restored him to his
former office and charged him to walk in the way of good and righteousness. So he kissed the
Khalif's hands and donning the captain's habit, went forth, whilst they made proclamation of
his appointment.

He abode awhile in the exercise of his office, till, one day, his mother went in to the wife
of the Chief of the Police, who said to her, 'Praised be God who hath delivered thy son from
prison and restored him to health and safety! But why dost thou not bid him cast about to get
the girl Jessamine for my son Hebezlem Bezazeh?' 'That will I,' answered she and going out
from her, repaired to her son. She found him drunken and said to him, 'O my son, none was the
cause of thy release from prison but the wife of the Master of Police, and she would have thee
go about to kill Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat and get his slave-girl Jessamine for her son Hebezlem
Bezazeh.' 'That will be the easiest of things,' answered he, 'and I will set about it this
very night.' Now this was the first night of the new month, and it was the Khalif's wont to
pass that night with the Princess Zubeideh, for the setting free of a male or female slave
or what not else of the like. On this occasion, he used to doff his royal habit and lay it
upon a chair in the sitting-chamber, together with his rosary and dagger and royal signet and
a golden lantern, adorned with three jewels strung on a wire of gold, by which he set great
store, committing all these things to the charge of the eunuchs, whilst he sent into the Lady
Zubeideh's apartment. So Ahmed Kemakim waited till midnight, when Canopus shone and all creatures
slept, whilst the Creator covered them with the curtain [of the dark]. Then he took his naked
sword in one hand and his grappling iron in the other, and repairing to the Khalif's pavilion,
cast his grapnel on to the roof. It caught there and he fixed his rope-ladder and climbed up
to the roof; then, raising the trap-door, let himself down into the saloon, where he found
the eunuchs asleep. So he drugged them with henbane and taking the Khalif's dress and dagger
and rosary and handkerchief and signet-ring and lantern, returned whence he came and betook
himself to the house of Alaeddin, who had that night celebrated his wedding festivities with
Jessamine and had gone in to her and gotten her with child. Ahmed climbed over into his saloon
and raising one of the marble slabs of the floor, dug a hole under it and laid the stolen things
therein, all save the lantern, which he kept, saying in himself, 'I will set it before me,
when I sit at wine, and drink by its light.' Then he plastered down the marble slab, as it
was, and returning whence he came, went back to his own house. As soon as it was day, the Khalif
went out into the sitting-chamber, and finding the eunuchs drugged with henbane, aroused them.
Then he put his hand to the chair and found neither dress nor signet nor rosary nor dagger
nor lantern; whereat he was exceeding wroth and donning the habit of anger, which was red,
sat down in the Divan. So the Vizier Jaafer came forward and kissing the earth before him,
said, 'May God avert the wrath of the Commander of the Faithful!' 'O Vizier,' answered the
Khalif, 'I am exceeding wroth!'[FN#106] 'What has happened?' asked Jaafer; so he told him what
had happened and when the Chief of the Police appeared, with Ahmed Kemakim at his stirrup,
he said to him, 'O Amir Khalid, how goes Baghdad?' And he answered, 'It is safe and quiet.'
'Thou liest!' rejoined the Khalif. 'How so, O Commander of the Faithful?' asked the Amir. So
he told him the case and added, 'I charge thee to bring me back all the stolen things.' 'O
Commander of the Faithful', replied the Amir, 'the vinegar-worm is of and in the vinegar, and
no stranger can get at this place.'[FN#107] But the Khalif said, 'Except thou bring me these
things, I will put thee to death.' Quoth Khalid, 'Ere thou slay me, slay Ahmed Kemakim, for
none should know the robber and the traitor but the captain of the watch.' Then came forward
Ahmed Kemakim and said to the Khalif, 'Accept my intercession for the Master of Police, and
I will be responsible to thee for the thief and will follow his track till I find him; but
give me two Cadis and two Assessors, for he who did this thing feareth thee not, nor doth he
fear the Chief of the Police nor any other.' 'Thou shalt have what thou seekest,' answered
the Khalif; 'but let search be made first in my palace and then in those of the Vizier and
the Chief of the Sixty.' 'Thou sayst well, O Commander of the Faithful,' rejoined Ahmed; 'most
like the thief is one who had been reared in thy household or that of one of thy chief officers.'
'As my head liveth,' said Haroun, 'whosoever shall appear to have done the deed, I will put
him to death, be it my very own son!' Then Ahmed Kemakim received a written warrant to enter
and search the houses and taking in his hand a [divining] rod made of equal parts of bronze,
copper, iron and steel, went forth, attended by the Cadis and Assessors and the Chief of the
Police. He first searched the palace of the Khalif, then that of the Vizier Jaafer; after which
he went the round of the houses of the chamberlains and officers, till he came to that of Alaeddin.
When the latter heard the clamour before his house, he left his wife and opening the door,
found the Master of Police without, with a crowd of people. So he said, 'What is the matter,
O Amir Khalid?' The Chief of the Police told him the case and Alaeddin said, 'Enter my house
and search it.' 'Pardon, O my lord,' replied the Amir; 'thou art a man in authority,[FN#108]
and God forbid that such should be guilty of treason!' Quoth Alaeddin, 'Needs must my house
be searched. So they entered, and Ahmed Kemakim went straight to the saloon and let the rod
fall upon the slab, under which he had buried the stolen goods, with such force that the marble
broke in sunder and discovered something that glistened underneath. Then said he, 'In the name
of God! what He willeth! Thanks to our coming, we have lit upon a treasure. Let us go down
into this hiding-place and see what is therein.' So the Cadis and Assessors looked down into
the hole and finding there the stolen goods, drew up a statement of how they had discovered
them in Alaeddin's house, to which they set their seals. Then they bade seize upon Alaeddin
and took his turban from his head, and making an inventory of all his property and effects,
[sealed them up]. Meanwhile, Ahmed Kemakim laid hands on Jessamine, who was with child by Alaeddin,
and committed her to his mother, saying, 'Deliver her to the Lady Khatoun.' So the old woman
took her and carried her to the wife of the Master of Police. As soon as Hebezlem saw her,
health and strength returned to him and he arose forthright, rejoicing greatly, and would have
drawn near her: but she pulled a dagger from her girdle and said, 'Keep off from me, or I will
kill thee and myself after.' 'O strumpet,' exclaimed his mother, 'let my son have his will
of thee!' But Jessamine answered, 'O bitch, by what code is it lawful for a woman to marry
two husbands, and how shall the dog take the lion's place?' With this Hebezlem's passion redoubled
and he sickened for unfulfilled desire and refusing food, took to his bed again. Then said
his mother to her, 'O harlot, how canst thou make me thus to sorrow for my son? Needs must
I punish thee, and as for Alaeddin, he will assuredly be hanged.' 'And I will die for love
of him,' answered Jessamine. Then Khatoun stripped her of her jewels and silken raiment and
clothing her in sackcloth drawers and a shift of hair-cloth, sent her down into the kitchen
and made her a scullery-wench, saying, 'Thy punishment shall be to split wood and peel onions
and set fire under the cooking pots.' Quoth she, 'I am willing to brook all manner of hardship
and servitude, but not thy son's sight.' But God inclined the hearts of the slave-girls to
her and they used to do her service in the kitchen.

Meanwhile, they carried Alaeddin to the Divan and brought him, together with the stolen goods,
before the Khalif, who said, 'Where did ye find them?' 'Amiddleward Alaeddin's house,' answered
they; whereat the Khalif was filled with wrath and took the things, but found not the lantern
among them, and said to Alaeddin, 'Where is the lantern?' 'I know nought of it,' answered he;
'it was not I that stole it.' 'O traitor,' said the Khalif, 'how comes it that I brought thee
near unto me and thou hast cast me out, and I trusted in thee and thou hast betrayed me?' And
he commanded to hang him. So the Chief of the Police took him and went down with him into the
city, whilst the crier forewent them, proclaiming aloud and saying, 'This is the reward and
the least of the reward of him who doth treason against the orthodox Khalifs!' And the folk
flocked to the gallows.

Meanwhile, Ahmed ed Denef, Alaeddin's adopted father, was sitting, making merry with his followers
in a garden, when in came one of the water-carriers of the Divan and kissing Ahmed's hand,
said to him, 'O Captain, thou sittest at thine ease, with water running at thy feet, and knowest
not what has happened.' 'What is to do?' asked Ahmed, and the other answered, 'They have gone
down with thine adopted son, Alaeddin, to the gallows.' 'O Hassan Shouman,' said Ahmed, 'What
sayst thou of this?' 'Assuredly, Alaeddin is innocent' replied his lieutenant; 'and this is
some enemy's practice against him.' Quoth Ahmed, 'What counsellest thou?' And Hassan said,
'God willing, we must rescue him.' Then he went to the prison and said to the gaoler, 'Give
us some one deserving of death.' So he gave him one that was likest to Alaeddin and they covered
his head and carried him to the place of execution between Ahmed ed Denef and Ali ez Zibec
of Cairo. Now they had brought Alaeddin to the gibbet, to hang him, but Ahmed ed Denef came
forward and set his foot on that of the hangman, who said, 'Give me room to do my office.'
'O accursed one,' replied Ahmed, 'take this man and hang him in Alaeddin's stead; for he is
innocent and we will ransom him with this fellow, even as Abraham ransomed Ishmael[FN#109]
with the ram.' So the hangman took the man and hanged him in Alaeddin's room. Then Ahmed and
Ali took Alaeddin and carried him to the house of the former, to whom said he, 'O my father,
may God abundantly requite thee!' 'O Alaeddin,' said Ahmed, 'what is this thou hast done? God's
mercy on him who said, "Whoso trusteth in thee, betray him not, though thou be a traitor."
Now the Khalif set thee in high place about him and styled thee "Trusty" and "Faithful;" how
then couldst thou deal thus with him and steal his goods?' 'By the Most Great Name, O my father,'
replied Alaeddin, 'I had no hand in this, nor do I know who did it.' Quoth Ahmed, 'Of a surety
none did this but a manifest enemy and whoso doth aught shall be requited for his deed; but,
O Alaeddin, thou canst tarry no longer in Baghdad, for kings, O my son, may not be bought off
and longsome is his travail whom they pursue.' 'Whither shall I go, O my father?' asked Alaeddin.
'O my son,' answered Ahmed, 'I will bring thee to Alexandria, for it is a blessed place; its
environs are green and its sojourn pleasant.' And Alaeddin said, 'I hear and obey, O my father.'
So Ahmed said to Hassan Shouman, 'Be mindful and when the Khalif asks for me, say I am gone
on a circuit of the provinces.' Then, taking Alaeddin, he went forth of Baghdad and stayed
not till they came to the vineyards and gardens, where they met two Jews of the Khalif's tax-gatherers,
riding on mules, and Ahmed said to them, 'Give me the guard-money.'[FN#110] 'Why should we
give thee guard-money?' asked they. 'Because,' answered he, 'I am the patrol of this valley.'
So they gave him each a hundred dinars, after which he slew them and took their mules, one
of which he mounted, whilst Alaeddin bestrode the other. Then they rode on, till they came
to the city of Ayas[FN#111] and put up for the night at an inn. Next morning, Alaeddin sold
his own mule and committed that of Ahmed to the charge of the doorkeeper of the inn, after
which they took ship from the port of Ayas and sailed to Alexandria. Here they landed and proceeded
to the Bazaar, where they found a broker crying a shop and a chamber behind it for sale. The
last bidding for the premises (which belonged to the Treasury) was nine hundred and fifty dirhems;[FN#112]
so Alaeddin bid a thousand and his offer being accepted, took the keys and opened the shop
and room, which latter he found furnished with carpets and cushions. Moreover, he found there
a storehouse full of sails and masts and ropes and chests and bags of beads and shells and
stirrups and axes and maces and knives and scissors and what not else, for the last owner of
the shop had been a dealer in second-hand goods. So he took his seat in the shop and Ahmed
ed Denef said to him, 'O my son, the shop and room and that which is therein are become thine;
so abide thou here and buy and sell and grudge not, neither repine; for God the Most High blesseth
trade.' After this he abode with him three days and on the fourth he took leave of him, saying,
'O my son, abide here till I bring thee the Khalif's pardon and learn who hath played thee
this trick.' Then he took ship for Ayas, where he took the mule from the inn and returning
to Baghdad, foregathered with Hassan Shouman, to whom said he, 'Has the Khalif asked for me?'
'No,' answered Hassan, 'nor hath thou come to his thought.' So he resumed his service about
the Khalif's person and set himself to seek news of Alaeddin's case, till one day he heard
the Khalif say to the Vizier, 'See, O Jaafer, how Alaeddin dealt with me!' 'O Commander of
the Faithful,' replied Jaafer, 'thou hast requited him with hanging, and it was what he deserved.'
Quoth Haroun, 'I have a mind to go down and see him hanging.' And the Vizier answered, 'As
thou wilt, O Commander of the Faithful.' So the Khalif and Jaafer went down to the place of
execution, and the former, raising his eyes, saw the hanged man to be other than Alaeddin and
said to the Vizier, 'This is not Alaeddin.' 'How knowest thou that it is not he?' asked the
Vizier, and the Khalif answered, 'Alaeddin was short and this fellow is tall.' Quoth Jaafer,
'Hanging stretches a man.' 'But,' rejoined the Khalif, 'Alaeddin was fair and this man's face
is black.' 'Knowest thou not, O Commander of the Faithful,' replied Jaafer, 'that death (by
hanging) causes blackness?' Then the Khalif bade take down the body and they found the names
of he first two Khalifs, Abou Bekr and Omar, written on his heels; whereupon quoth the Khalif,
'O Vizier, Alaeddin was a Sunnite, and this fellow is a Shiyaite.'[FN#113] 'Glory be to God
who knowest the hidden things!' answered Jaafer. 'We know not whether this was he or another.'
Then the Khalif bade bury the body and Alaeddin became altogether forgotten.

As for Hebezlem Bezazeh, the Amir Khalid's son, he ceased not to languish for passion and desire,
till he died and they buried him; whilst Jessamine accomplished the months of her pregnancy
and being taken with the pains of labour, gave birth to a male child like the moon. The serving-women
said to her, 'What wilt thou name him?' And she answered, 'Were his father alive, he had named
him; but now I will name him Aslan.' She gave him suck two years, then weaned him, and he crawled
and walked. One day, whilst his mother was busied with the service of the kitchen, the child
went out and seeing the stairs, mounted to the guest- chamber,[FN#114] where the Amir Khalid
was sitting. When the latter saw him, he took him in his lap and glorified his Lord for that
which He had created and fashioned forth; then eyeing him straitly, he saw that he was the
likest of all creatures to Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat; and God informed his heart with love of
the boy. Presently, his mother Jessamine sought for him and finding him not, mounted to the
guest-chamber, where she saw the Amir seated, with the child playing in his lap. The latter,
spying his mother, would have thrown himself upon her: but the Amir held him back and said
to Jessamine, 'Come hither, O damsel.' So she came to him, and he said to her, 'Whose son is
this?' Quoth she, 'He is my son and the darling of my heart.' 'Who is his father?' asked the
Amir; and she answered, 'His father was Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat, but now he is become thy
son.' Quoth Khalid, 'Alaeddin was a traitor.' 'God deliver him from treason!' replied she.
'God forbid that the Faithful should be a traitor!' Then said he, 'When the boy grows up and
says to thee, "Who is my father?" say thou to him, "Thou art the son of the Amir Khalid, Chief
of the Police."' And she answered, 'I hear and obey.' Then he circumcised the boy and reared
him after the goodliest fashion, bringing him a tutor, who taught him to read and write; so
he read (and commented) the Koran twice and learnt it by heart and grew up, calling the Amir
father. Moreover, the latter used to go down with him to the tilting-ground and assemble horsemen
and teach the lad warlike exercises and the use of arms, so that, by the time he was fourteen
years old, he became a valiant and accomplished cavalier and gained the rank of Amir.[FN#115]

It chanced one day that he fell in with Ahmed Kemakim and clapping up an acquaintance with
him, accompanied him to the tavern, where Ahmed took out the lantern he had stolen from the
Khalif and fell to plying the wine-cup by its light, till he became drunken. Presently Aslan
said to him, 'O Captain, give me yonder lantern;' but he replied, 'I cannot give it thee.'
'Why not?' asked Aslan. 'Because,' answered Ahmed, 'lives have been lost for it.' 'Whose life?'
asked Aslan; and Ahmed said, 'There came hither a man named Alaeddin Abou est Shamat, who was
made Captain of the Sixty and lost his life through this lantern.' Quoth Aslan, 'And how was
that?' 'Know,' replied Ahmed Kemakim, 'that thou hadst an elder brother by name Hebezlem Bezazeh,
for whom, when he became apt for marriage, thy father would have bought a slave-girl named
Jessamine.' And he went on to tell him the whole story of Hebezlem's illness and what befell
Alaeddin, undeserved. When Aslan heard this, he said in himself, 'Most like this slave-girl
was my mother Jessamine and my father was no other than Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat.' So he went
out from him, sorrowful, and met Ahmed ed Denef, who exclaimed at sight of him, 'Glory be to
Him to whom none is like!' 'At what dost thou marvel, O my chief?' asked Hassan Shouman. 'At
the make of yonder boy Aslan,' replied Ed Denef; 'for he is the likest of all creatures to
Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat.' Then he called Aslan and said to him, 'What is thy mother's name?'
'She is called the damsel Jessamine,' answered Aslan; and Ed Denef said, 'Harkye, Aslan, take
heart and be of good cheer, for thy father was none other than Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat: but,
O my son, go thou in to thy mother and question her of thy father.' 'I hear and obey,' answered
he, and going in to his mother, said to her, 'Who is my father?' Quoth she, 'The Amir Khalid
is thy father.' 'Not so,' rejoined he, 'my father was none other than Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat.'
At this, she wept and said, 'Who told thee this?' 'Ahmed ed Denef, the Captain of the Guard,'
answered he; so she told him the whole story, saying, 'O my son, the truth can no longer be
hidden: know that Alaeddin was indeed thy father, but it was the Amir Khalid who reared thee
and adopted thee as his son. And now, O my son, when thou seest Ahmed ed Denef, so thou say
to him, "I conjure thee, by Allah, O my chief, avenge me on the murderer of my father Alaeddin
Abou esh Shamat!"' So he went out from her and betaking himself to Ahmed ed Denef, kissed his
hand. Quoth Ed Denef, 'What ails thee, O Aslan?' And he answered, 'I know now for certain that
I am the son of Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat and I would have thee avenge me of my father's murderer.'
'And who was thy father's murderer?' asked Ed Denef. 'Ahmed Kemakim the arch- thief,' replied
Aslan. 'Who told thee this?' said Ed Denef, and Aslan answered, 'I saw in his hand the lantern
hung with jewels, that was lost with the rest of the Khalif's gear, and asked him to give it
me; but he refused, saying, "Lives have been lost on account of this," and told me how it was
he who had broken into the palace and stolen the goods and hidden them in my father's house.'
Then said Ed Denef, 'When thou seest the Amir Khalid don his harness of war, beg him to equip
thee like himself and take thee with him. Then do thou some feat of prowess before the Khalif
and he will say to thee, "Ask a boon of me, O Aslan." And do thou answer, "I ask of thee that
thou avenge me of my father's murderer." If he say, "Thy father is alive and is the Amir Khalid,
the Chief of the Police," answer thou, "My father was Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat, and the Amir
Khalid is only my father by right of fosterage and adoption." Then tell him all that passed
between thee and Ahmed Kemakim and say, "O Commander of the Faithful, order him to be searched
and I will bring the lantern forth of his bosom."' 'I hear and obey,' answered Aslan and returning
to the Amir Khalid, found him making ready to repair to the Divan and said to him, 'I would
fain have thee arm and harness me like thyself and carry me to the Divan.' So he equipped him
and carried him to the Divan, with Ahmed Kemakim at his stirrup. Then the Khalif sallied forth
of Baghdad with his retinue and let pitch tents and pavilions without the city; whereupon the
troops divided into two parties and fell to playing at ball and striking it with the mall from
one to the other. Now there was among the troops a spy, who had been hired to kill the Khalif;
so he took the ball and smiting it with the mall, drove it straight at the Khalif's face; but
Aslan interposed and catching it in mid-volley, drove it back at him who smote it, so that
it struck him between the shoulders and he fell to the ground. The Khalif exclaimed, 'God bless
thee, O Aslan!' and they all dismounted and sat on chairs. Then the Khalif bade bring the smiter
of the ball before him and said to him, 'Who moved thee to do this thing and art thou friend
or foe?' Quoth he, 'I am a foe and it was my purpose to kill thee.' 'And wherefore?' asked
the Khalif. The Khalif replied, 'He is the Amir Khalid, Chief of the Police.' 'O Commander
of the Faithful,' rejoined Aslan, 'he is no father of mine, save by right of fosterage; my
father was none other than Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat.' 'Then thy father was a traitor,' said
the Khalif. 'God forbid, O Commander of the Faithful,' replied Aslan, 'that the Faithful should
be a traitor! But how did he wrong thee?' Quoth the Khalif, 'He stole my royal habit and what
was therewith.' 'O Commander of the Faithful,' rejoined Aslan, 'God forfend that my father
should be a traitor! But, O my lord, didst thou ever recover the lantern that was stolen from
thee?' 'No,' answered the Khalif, 'we never got it back.' And Aslan said, 'I saw it in the
hands of Ahmed Kemakim and begged it of him; but he refused to give it me, saying, "Lives have
been lost on account of this." Then he told me of the sickness of Hebezlem Bezazeh, son of
the Amir Khalid, by reason of his passion for the damsel Jessamine, and how he himself was
released from prison and that it was he who stole the lamp and robe and so forth. Do thou then,
O Commander of the Faithful, avenge me of my father on him who murdered him.' So the Khalif
caused Ahmed Kemakim to be brought before him and sending for Ahmed ed Denef, bade him search
him; whereupon he put his hand into the thief's bosom and pulled out the lamp. 'Harkye, traitor,'
said the Khalif, 'whence hadst thou this lantern?' And Kemakim replied, 'I bought it, O Commander
of the Faithful!' 'Where didst thou buy it?' said the Khalif, 'and who could come by its like
to sell it to thee?' Then they beat him, till he confessed that he had stolen the lantern and
the rest, and the Khalif said, 'O traitor, what moved thee to do this thing and ruin Alaeddin
Abou esh Shamat, the Trusty and Well-beloved?' Then he bade lay hands on him and on the Chief
of the Police, but the latter said, 'O Commander of the Faithful, indeed I am unjustly entreated;
thou badest me hang him, and I had no knowledge of this plot, for the thing was contrived between
Ahmed Kemakim and his mother and my wife. I crave thine intercession, O Aslan.' So Aslan interceded
for him with the Khalif, who said, 'What hath God done with this lad's mother?' 'She is with
me,' answered Khalid, and the Khalif said, 'I command thee to bid thy wife dress her in her
own clothes and ornaments and restore her to her former rank; and do thou remove the seals
from Alaeddin's house and give his son possession of his estate.' 'I hear and obey,' answered
Khalid, and going forth, carried the Khalif's order to his wife, who clad Jessamine in her
own apparel; whilst he himself removed the seals from Alaeddin's house and gave Aslan the keys.
Then said the Khalif to Aslan, 'Ask a boon of me;' and he replied, 'I beseech thee to unite
me with my father.' Whereat the Khalif wept and said, 'Most like it was thy father that was
hanged and is dead; but by the life of my forefathers, whoso bringeth me the glad news that
he is yet in the bonds of life, I will give him all he seeketh!' Then came forward Ahmed ed
Denef and kissing the earth before the Khalif, said, 'Grant me indemnity, O Commander of the
Faithful!' 'Thou hast it,' answered the Khalif; and Ed Denef said, 'I give thee the good news
that Alaeddin is alive and well.' Quo the Khalif, 'What is this thou sayest?' 'As thy head
liveth,' answered Ed Denef, 'I speak sooth; for I ransomed him with another, of those who deserved
death, and carried him to Alexandria, where I set him up as a dealer in second-hand goods.'
Then said Er Reshid, 'I charge thee fetch him to me;' and Ed Denef replied, 'I hear and obey;'
whereupon the Khalif bade give him ten thousand dinars and he set out for Alexandria.

Meanwhile Alaeddin sold all that was in his shop, till he had but a few things let and amongst
the rest a bag. So he shook the bag and there fell out a jewel, big enough to fill the palm
of the hand, hanging to a chain of gold and having five faces, whereon were names and talismanic
characters, as they were ant-tracks. 'God is All-knowing!' quoth he. 'Belike this is a talisman.'
So he rubbed each face; but nothing came of it and he said to himself, 'Doubtless it is a piece
of [naturally] variegated onyx,' and hung it up in the shop. Presently, a Frank passed along
the street and seeing the jewel hanging up, seated himself before the shop and said to Alaeddin,
'O my lord, is yonder jewel for sale?' 'All I have is for sale,' answered Alaeddin; and the
Frank said, 'Wilt thou sell it me for fourscore thousand dinars?' 'May God open!'[FN#116] replied
Alaeddin. 'Wilt thou sell it for a hundred thousand dinars?' asked the Frank, and he answered,
'I sell it to thee for a hundred thousand dinars; pay me down the money.' Quoth the Frank,
'I cannot carry such a sum about me, for there are thieves and sharpers in Alexandria; but
come with me to my ship and I will pay thee the money and give thee to boot a bale of Angora
wool, a bale of satin, a bale of velvet and a bale of broadcloth.' So Alaeddin rose and giving
the jewel to the Frank, locked up his shop and committed the keys to his neighbour, saying,
'Keep these keys for me, whilst I go with this Frank to his ship and take the price of my jewel.
If I be long absent and there come to thee Captain Ahmed ed Denef,--he who set me up in this
shop,--give him the keys and tell him where I am.' Then he went with the Frank to his ship,
where the latter set him a stool and making him sit down, said [to his men], 'Bring the money.'
So [they brought it and] he paid him the price of the jewel and gave him the four bales he
had promised him; after which he said to him, 'O my lord, honour me by taking a morsel or a
draught of water.' And Alaeddin answered, 'If thou have any water, give me to drink.' So the
Frank called for drink, and they brought sherbets, drugged with henbane, of which no sooner
had Alaeddin drunk, than he fell over on his back; whereupon they weighed anchor and shoving
off, shipped the poles and made sail. The wind blew fair and they sailed till they lost sight
of land, when the Frank bade bring Alaeddin up out of the hold and made him smell to the counter-drug,
whereupon he opened his eyes and said, 'Where am I?' 'Thou art bound and in my power,' answered
the Frank; 'and if thou hadst refused to take a hundred thousand dinars for the jewel, I would
have bidden thee more.' 'What art thou?' asked Alaeddin, and the other replied, 'I am a sea-
captain and mean to carry thee to my mistress.' As they were talking, a ship hove in sight,
with forty Muslim merchants on board; so the Frank captain gave chase and coming up with the
vessel, made fast to it with grappling-irons. Then he boarded it with his men and took it and
plundered it; after which he sailed on with his prize, till he reached the city of Genoa, where
he repaired to the gate of a palace, that gave upon the sea, and there came forth to him a
veiled damsel, who said, 'Hast thou brought the jewel and its owner?' 'I have brought them
both,' answered he; and she said, 'Then give me the jewel.' So he gave it to her and returning
to the port, fired guns to announce his safe return; whereupon the King of the city, being
notified of his arrival, came down to receive him and said to him, 'What manner of voyage hast
thou had?' 'A right prosperous one,' answered the captain, 'and I have made prize of a ship
with one- and-forty Muslim merchants.' Being them ashore,' said the King. So he landed the
merchants in irons, and Alaeddin among the rest; and the King and the captain mounted and made
the captives walk before them, till they reached the palace, where the King sat down in the
audience-chamber and making the prisoners pass before him, one by one, said to the first, 'O
Muslim, whence comest thou?' 'From Alexandria,' answered he; whereupon the King said, 'O headsman,
put him to death.' So the headsman smote him with the sword and cut off his head: and thus
it fared with the second and the third, till forty were dead and there remained but Alaeddin,
who drank the cup of his comrades' anguish and said to himself, 'God have mercy on thee, O
Alaeddin! Thou art a dead man.' Then said the King to him, 'And thou, what countryman art thou?'
'I am of Alexandria,' answered Alaeddin, and the King said, 'O headsman, strike off his head.'
So the headsman raised his arm and was about to strike, when an old woman of venerable aspect
presented herself before the King, who rose to do her honour, and said to him, 'O King, did
I not bid thee remember, when the captain came back with captives, to keep one or two for the
convent, to serve in the church?' 'O my mother, answered the King, 'would thou hadst come a
while earlier! But take this one that is left.' So she turned to Alaeddin and said to him,
'Wilt thou serve in the church, or shall I let the King kill thee?' Quoth he, 'I will serve
in the church.' So she took him and carried him forth of the palace to the church, where he
said to her, 'What service must I do?' And she answered, 'Thou must arise in the morning and
take five mules and go with them into the forest and there cut dry firewood and split it and
bring it to the convent-kitchen. Then must thou take up the carpets and sweep and wipe the
stone and marble pavements and lay the carpets down again, as they were; after which thou must
take two bushels and a half of wheat and sift it and grind it and knead it and make it into
cracknels for the convent; and thou must take also a bushel of lentils and sift and crush and
cook them. Then must thou fetch water in barrels and fill the four fountains; after which thou
must take three hundred and threescore and six wooden platters and crumble the cracknels therein
and pour of the lentil pottage over each and carry every monk and patriarch his platter.' 'Take
me back to the King and let him kill me,' said Alaeddin; 'it were easier to me than this service.'
'If thou do the service that is due from thee,' replied the old woman, 'thou shalt escape death;
but, if thou do it not, I will let the King kill thee.' Then she went away, leaving Alaeddin
heavy at heart. Now there were in the church ten blind cripples, and one of them said to him,
'Bring me a pot.' So he brought it him and he did his occasion therein and said, 'Throw away
the ordure.' He did do, and the blind man said, 'The Messiah's blessing be upon thee, O servant
of the church!' Presently, the old woman came in and said to him, 'Why hast thou not done thy
service?' 'How many hands have I,' answered he, 'that I should suffice for all this work?'
'Thou fool!' rejoined she.' 'I brought thee not hither but to work. But,' added she, giving
him a wand of brass with a cross at the top, 'take this rod and go forth into the highway,
and whomsoever thou meetest, were he governor of the ciy, say to him, "I summon thee to the
service of the church, in the name of the Messiah." And he will not refuse thee. Then make
him sift the wheat and grind it and bolt it and knead it and bake it into cracknels; and if
any gainsay thee, beat him and fear none.' 'I hear and obey,' answered he and did as she said,
pressing great and small into his service; nor did he leave to do thus for the space of seventeen
years, till, one day, the old woman came to him, as he sat in the church, and said to him,
'Go forth of the convent.' 'Whither shall I go?' asked he, and she said, 'Thou canst pass the
night in a tavern or with one of thy friends.' Quoth he, 'Why dost thou send me forth of the
church?' and she replied, 'The princess Husn Meryem, daughter of Youhenna, King of the city,
purposes this night to pay a visit to the church, and it befits not that any abide in her way.'
So he rose and made a show of obeying her and of leaving the church; but he said in himself,
'I wonder whether the princess is like our women or fairer than they! Algates, I will not go
till I have had a sight of her.' So he hid himself in a closet[FN#117] with a window looking
into the church, and as he watched, in came the King's daughter. He cast one glance at her,
that cost him a thousand sighs, for she was like the full moon, when it emerges from the clouds;
and with her was a damsel, to whom he heard her say, 'O Zubeideh, thy company is grateful to
me.' So he looked straitly at the damsel and found her to be none other than his wife, Zubeideh
the Lutanist, whom he thought dead. Then the princess said to Zubeideh, 'Play us an air on
the lute.' But she answered, 'I will make no music for thee, till thou grant my wish and fulfil
thy promise to me.' 'And what did I promise thee?' asked the princess. 'That thou wouldst reunite
me with my husband Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat,' said Zubeideh. 'O Zubeideh,' rejoined the princess,
'be of good cheer and play us an air, as a thank-offering for reunion with thy husband.' 'Where
is he?' asked Zubeideh, and Meryem replied, 'He is in yonder closet, listening to us.' So Zubeideh
played a measure on the lute, that would have made a rock dance; which when Alaeddin heard,
his entrails were troubled and he came forth and throwing himself upon his wife, strained her
to his bosom. She also knew him and they embraced and fell down in a swoon. Then came the princess
and sprinkled rose-water on them, till they revived, when she said to them, 'God hath reunited
you.' 'By thy kind offices, O my lady,' replied Alaeddin and turning to his wife, said to her,
'O Zubeideh, thou didst surely die and we buried thee: how then camest thou to life and to
this place?' 'O my lord,' answered she, 'I did not die; but a Marid of the Jinn snatched me
up and flew with me hither. She whom thou buriedst was a Jinniyeh, who took my shape and feigned
herself dead, but presently broke open the tomb and returned to the service of this her mistress,
the princess Husn Meryem. As for me, I was in a trance, and when I opened my eyes, I found
myself with the princess; so I said to her, "Why hast thou bought me hither?" "O Zubeideh,"
answered she, "know that I am predestined to marry thy husband Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat: wilt
thou then accept of me to fellow-wife, a night for me and a night for thee?" "I hear and obey,
O my lady," rejoined I; "but where is my husband?" Quoth she, "Upon his forehead is written
what God hath decreed to him; as soon as what is there written is fulfilled to him he must
needs come hither, and we will beguile the time of our separation from him with songs and smiting
upon instruments of music, till it please God to unite us with him." So I abode with her till
God brought us together in this church.' Then the princess turned to him and said, 'O my lord
Alaeddin, wilt thou accept of me to wife?' 'O my lady,' replied he, 'I am a Muslim and thou
art a Nazarene; so how can I marry thee?' 'God forbid,' rejoined she, 'that I should be an
infidel! Nay, I am a Muslim; these eighteen years have I held fast the Faith of Submission
and I am pure of any faith other than that of Islam.' Then said he, 'O my lady, I would fain
return to my native land.' And she answered, 'Know that I see written on thy forehead things
that thou must needs fulfil and thou shalt come to thy desire. Moreover, I give thee the glad
tidings, O Alaeddin, that there hath been born to thee a son named Aslan, who is now eighteen
years old and sitteth in thy place with the Khalif. Know also that God hath shown forth the
truth and done away the false by withdrawing the curtain of secrecy from him who stole the
Khalif's goods, that is, Ahmed Kemakim the arch-thief and traitor; and he now lies bound and
in prison. It was I who caused the jewel to be put in the bag where thou foundest it and who
sent the captain to thee; for thou must know that he is enamoured of me and seeketh my favours,
but I refused to yield to his wishes, till he should being me the jewel and its owner. So I
gave him a hundred purses[FN#118] and despatched him to thee, in the habit of a merchant; and
it was I also who sent the old woman to save thee from being put to death with the other captives.'
'May God requite thee for us with all good!' said he. 'Indeed, thou hast done well.' Then she
renewed her profession of the Mohammedan faith at his hands, and when he was assured of the
truth of her speech, he said to her, 'O my lady, tell me what are the virtues of the jewel
and whence cometh it?' 'It came from an enchanted treasure,' answered she, 'and has five virtues,
that will profit us in time of need. The princess my grandmother, my father's mother, was an
enchantress and skilled in solving mysteries and winning at hidden treasures, and from one
of the latter came the jewel into her hands. When I grew up and reached the age of fourteen,
I read the Evangel and other books and found the name of Mohammed (whom God bless and preserve)
in four books, the Evangel, the Pentateuch, the Psalms[FN#119] and the Koran; so I believed
in Mohammed and became a Muslim, being assured that none is worship-worth save God the Most
High and that to the Lord of all creatures no faith is acceptable save that of Submission.
When my grandmother fell sick, she gave me the jewel and taught me its virtues. Moreover, before
she died, my father said to her, 'Draw me a geomantic figure and see the issue of my affair
and what will befall me.' And she foretold him that he should die by the hand of a captive
from Alexandria. So he swore to kill every captive from that place and told the captain of
this, saying, "Do thou fall on the ships of the Muslims and seize them and whomsoever thou
findest of Alexandria, kill him or bring him to me." The captain did his bidding and he slew
as many in number as the hairs of his head. Then my grandmother died and I took a geomantic
tablet, being minded to now who I should marry, and drawing a figure, found that none should
be my husband save one called Alaeddin Abou esh Shamat, the Trusty and Well-beloved. At this
I marvelled and waited till the times were accomplished and I foregathered with thee.' So Alaeddin
took her to wife and said to her, 'I desire to return to my own country.' 'If it be so,' replied
she, 'come with me.' Then she carried him into the palace and hiding him in a closet there,
went in to her father, who said to her, 'O my daughter, my heart is exceeding heavy to-day;
let us sit down and make merry with wine, thou and I.' So he called for a table of wine, and
she sat down with him and plied him with wine, till he lost his wits, when she drugged a cup
with henbane, and he drank it off and fell backward. Then she brought Alaeddin out of the closet
and said to him, 'Come; thine enemy is laid prostrate, for I made him drunk and drugged him;
so do thou with him as thou wilt.' Accordingly Alaeddin went to the King and finding him lying
drugged and helpless, bound him fast, hand and foot. Then he gave him the counter-drug and
he came to himself and finding his daughter and Alaeddin sitting on his breast, said to her,
'O my daughter, dost thou deal thus with me?' 'If I be indeed thy daughter,' answered she,
'become a Muslim, even as I have done; for the truth was shown to me, and I embraced it, and
the false, and I renounced it. I have submitted myself unto God, the Lord of all creatures,
and am pure of all faiths contrary to that of Islam in this world and the next. Wherefore,
if thou wilt become a Muslim, well and good; if not, thy death were better than thy life.'
Alaeddin also exhorted him to embrace the true faith; but he refused and was obstinate: so
Alaeddin took a dagger and cut his throat from ear to ear. Then he wrote a scroll, setting
forth what had happened and laid it on the dead man's forehead, after which they took what
was light of weight and heavy of worth and returned to the church. Here the princess took out
the jewel and rubbed the face whereon was figured a couch, whereupon a couch appeared before
her and she mounted upon it with Alaeddin and Zubeideh, saying, 'O couch, I conjure thee by
the virtue of the names and talismans and characters of art engraven on this jewel, rise up
with us!' And it rose with them into the air and flew, till I came to a desert valley, when
the princess turned the face on which the couch was figured towards the earth, and it sank
with them to the ground. Then she turned up the face whereon was figured a pavilion and tapping
it, said, 'Let a pavilion be pitched in this valley.' And immediately there appeared a pavilion,
in which they seated themselves. Now this valley was a desert waste, without grass or water;
so she turned a third face of the jewel towards the sky and said, 'By the virtue of the names
of God, let trees spring up here and a river run beside them!' And immediately trees sprang
up and a river ran rippling and splashing beside them. They made their ablutions and prayed
and drank of the stream; after which the princess turned up a fourth face of the jewel, on
which was figured a table of food, and said, 'By the virtue of the names of God, let the table
be spread!' And immediately there appeared before them a table, spread with all manner rich
meats, and they ate and drank and made merry.

Meanwhile, the King's son went in to waken his father, but found him slain and seeing the scroll,
took it and read. Then he sought his sister and finding her not, betook himself to the old
woman in the church, of whom he enquired of her, but she said, 'I have not seen her since yesterday.'
So he returned to the troops and cried out, saying, 'To horse, cavaliers!' Then he told them
what had happened, and they mounted and rode after the fugitives, till they drew near the pavilion.
Presently, Husn Meryem looked up and saw a cloud of dust, which spread till it covered the
prospect, then lifted and discovered her brother and his troops, crying aloud and saying, 'Whither
will ye fly, and we on your track!' Then said she to Alaeddin, 'Art thou steadfast in battle?'
'Even as the stake in bran,' answered he; 'I know not war nor battle, neither swords nor spears.'
So she pulled out the jewel and rubbed the fifth face, that on which were depictured a horse
and his rider, and straightway a horseman appear out of the desert and driving at the pursuing
host, ceased not to do battle with them and smite them with the sword, till he routed them
and put them to flight. Then said the princess to Alaeddin, 'Wilt thou go to Cairo or to Alexandria?'
And he answered, 'To Alexandria.' So they mounted the couch and she pronounced over it the
conjuration, whereupon it set off with them and brought them to Alexandria in the twinkling
of an eye. They alighted without the city and Alaeddin hid the women in a cavern, whilst he
went into Alexandria and fetched them veils and outer clothing, wherewith he covered them.
Then he carried them to his ship and leaving them in the room behind it, went forth to fetch
them the morning meal, when he met Ahmed ed Denef coming from Baghdad. He saw him in the street
and received him with open arms, embracing him and welcoming him. Ed Denef gave him the good
news of his son Aslan and how he was now come to the age of twenty; and Alaeddin, in his turn,
told the captain of the guard all that had befallen him, whereat he marvelled exceedingly.
Then he brought him to his lodging, where they passed the night; and next day he sold his shop
and laid its price with his other monies. Now Ed Denef had told him that the Khalif sought
him; but he said, 'I am bound first for Cairo, to salute my father and mother and the people
of my house.' So they all mounted the couch and it carried them to Cairo the Happy, where they
alighted in the street called Yellow, where stood Shemseddin's house. Alaeddin knocked at the
door, and his mother said, 'Who is at the door, now that we have lost our beloved?' 'It is
I, Alaeddin,' replied he; whereupon they came down and embraced him. Then he sent his wives
and baggage into the house and entering himself with Ahmed ed Denef, rested there three days,
after which he was minded to set out for Baghdad and his father said, 'O my son, abide with
me.' But he answered, 'I cannot brook to be parted from my son Aslan.' So he took his father
and mother and set out for Baghdad. When they came thither, Ahmed ed Denef went in to the Khalif
and gave him the glad tidings of Alaeddin's arrival and told him his story; whereupon the Prince
went forth to meet him, accompanied by his son Aslan, and they met and embraced each other.
Then the Khalif sent for Ahmed Kemakim and said to Alaeddin, 'Up and avenge thee of thine enemy!'
So he drew his sword and smote off Ahmed's head. Then the Khalif held festival for Alaeddin
and summoning the Cadis and the witnesses, married him to the princess Husn Meryem; and he
went in to her and found her an unpierced pearl. Moreover, the Khalif made Aslan Chief of the
Sixty and bestowed upon him and his father sumptuous dresses of honour; and they abode in the
enjoyment of all the comforts and pleasures of life, till there came to them the Destroyer
of Delights and the Sunderer of Companies.

           HATIM ET TAI: HIS GENEROSITY AFTER DEATH.

It is told of Hatim et Tai[FN#120], that when he died, they buried him on the top of a mountain
and set over his grave two boughs hewn out of two rocks and stone figures of women with dishevelled
hair. At the foot of the hill was a stream of running water, and when wayfarers camped there,
they heard loud crying in the night, from dark till daybreak; but when they arose in the morning,
they found nothing but the girls carved in stone. Now when Dhoulkeraa, King of Himyer, going
forth of his tribe, came to the valley, he halted to pass the night there and drawing near
the mountain, heard the crying and said, 'What lamenting is that on yonder hill?' They answered
him, saying, 'This is the tomb of Hatim et Tai, over which are two troughs of stone and stone
figures of girls with dishevelled hair; and all who camp in this place by night hear this crying
and lamenting.' So he said jestingly, 'O Hatim et Tai, we are thy guests this night, and we
are lank with hunger.' Then sleep overcame him, but presently he awoke in affright and cried
out, saying, 'Help, O Arabs! Look at my beast!' So they came to him and finding his she-camel
struggling in the death-agony, slaughtered it and roasted its flesh and ate. Then they asked
him what had happened and he said, 'When I closed my eyes, I saw in my sleep Hatim et Tai,
who came to me with a sword in his hand and said to me, "Thou comest to us and we have nothing
by us." Then he smote my she-camel with his sword, and she would have died, though ye had not
come to her and cut her throat.' Next morning the prince mounted the beast of one of his companions
and taking the latter up behind him, set out and fared on till midday, when they saw a man
coming towards them, mounted on a camel and leading another, and said to him, 'Who art thou?'
'I am Adi, son of Hatim et Tai,' answered he. 'Where is Dhoulkeraa, prince of Himyer?' 'This
is he,' replied they, and he said to the prince, 'Take this camel in place of thine own, which
my father slaughtered for thee.' 'Who told thee of this?' asked Dhoulkeraa, and Adi answered,
'My father appeared to me in a dream last night and said to me, "Harkye, Adi; Dhoulkeraa, King
of Himyer, sought hospitality of me and I, having nought to give him, slaughtered him his she-camel,
that he might eat: so do thou carry him a she-camel to ride, for I have nothing."' And Dhoulkeraa
took her, marvelling at the generosity of Hatim et Tai, alive and dead.

              MAAN BEN ZAIDEH AND THE THREE GIRLS.

It is told of Maan ben Zaideh[FN#121] that, being out one day a-hunting, he became athirst
and would have drunk, but his men had no water with them. Presently, he met three damsels,
bearing three skins of water; so he begged drink of them, and they gave him to drink. Then
he sought of his men somewhat to give the damsels; but they had no money; so he gave each girl
ten golden-headed arrows from his quiver. Whereupon quoth one of them to her mates, 'Harkye!
These fashions pertain to none but Maan ben Zaideh; so let each of us recite somewhat of verse
in his praise.' Then said the first:

He heads his shafts with gold and shooting at his foes, Dispenses
     thus largesse and bounties far and wide,
Giving the wounded man wherewith to get him cure And
     grave-clothes unto him must in the tombs abide.

And the second:

A warrior, for the great excess of his magnificence, both friends
     and foes enjoy the goods his liberal hands dispense.
His arrowheads are forged of gold, that so his very wars May not
     estop his generous soul from its munificence.

And the third:

With arrows he shoots at his foes, of his generosity, Whose heads
     are fashioned and forged of virgin gold, in steel's room;
That those whom he wounds may spend the price of the gold for
     their cure And those that are slain of his shafts may buy
     them the wede of the tomb.

                MAAN BEN ZAIDEH AND THE BEDOUIN.

It is told also of Maan ben Zaideh that he went forth one day to the chase with his company,
and they came upon a herd of gazelles. So they separated in pursuit of them and Maan was left
alone in chase of one of the gazelles. When he had made prize of it, he alighted and slaughtered
it; and as he was thus engaged, he espied a man coming towards him on an ass. So he remounted
and riding up to the new-comer, saluted him and asked him whence he came. Quoth he, 'I come
from the land of Cuzaaeh, where we have had a two years' dearth; but this year it was a season
of plenty and I sowed cucumbers. They came up before their time, so I gathered the best of
them and set out to carry them to the Amir Maan ben Zaideh, because of his well-known generosity
and notorious munificence.' 'How much cost thou hope to get of him?' asked Maan, and the Bedouin
answered, 'A thousand diners.' 'What if he say, "This is too much"?' quoth Maan. 'Then I will
ask five hundred diners,' said the Bedouin. 'And if he say, "Too much"?' said Maan. 'Then three
hundred,' replied the other. 'And if he say yet, "Too much"?' 'Then two hundred.' 'And yet,
"Too much"?' 'Then one hundred.' 'And yet, "Too much"?' 'Then fifty.' 'And yet, "Too much"?'
'Then thirty.' 'And if he still say, "Too much"?' said Maan ben Zaideh. 'Then,' answered the
Bedouin, 'I will make my ass set his feet in his sanctuary[FN#122] and return to my people,
disappointed and empty-handed.' Maan laughed at him and spurring his horse, rode on till he
came up with his suite and returned home, when he said to his chamberlain, 'If there come a
man with cucumbers, riding on an ass, admit him.' Presently up came the Bedouin and was admitted
to Maan's presence, but knew him not for the man he had met in the desert, by reason of the
gravity and majesty of his aspect and the multitude of his servants and attendants, for he
was seated on his chair of estate, with his officers about him. So he saluted him and Maan
said to him, 'O brother of the Arabs, what brings thee?' 'I hoped in the Amir,' answered the
Bedouin, 'and have brought him cucumbers out of season.' 'And how much cost thou expect of
us?' asked Maan. 'A thousand diners,' answered the Bedouin. 'Too much,' said Maan. Quoth the
Bedouin, 'Five hundred;' but Maan repeated, 'Too much.' 'Then three hundred,' said the Bedouin.
'Too much,' said Maan. 'Two hundred.' 'Too much' 'One hundred.' 'Too much' 'Fifty.' 'Too much.'
At last the Bedouin came down to thirty diners; but Maan still replied, 'Too much.' 'By Allah,'
cried the Bedouin, 'the man I met in the desert brought me ill luck! But I will not go lower
than thirty diners.' The Amir laughed and said nothing; whereupon the Bedouin knew that it
was he whom he had met and said, 'O my lord, except thou bring the thirty diners, there is
the ass tied ready at the door and here sits Maan.' At this, Maan laughed, till he fell backward,
and calling his steward, said to him, 'Give him a thousand diners and five hundred and three
hundred and two hundred and one hundred and fifty and thirty and leave the ass where he is.'
So the Bedouin, to his amazement, received two thousand and nine score diners, and may God
have mercy on them both!

                      THE CITY OF LEBTAIT.

There was once a city in the land of the Franks, called the City of Lebtait.[FN#123] It was
a royal city and in it stood a tower which was always shut. Whenever a King died and another
King of the Franks took the Kingship after him, he set a new and strong lock on the tower,
till there were four-and-twenty locks upon the gate. After this time, there came to the throne
a man who was not of the old royal house, and he had a mind to open the locks, that he might
see what was within the tower. The grandees of his kingdom forbade him from this and were instant
with him to desist, offering him all that their hands possessed of riches and things of price,
if he would but forego his desire; but he would not be baulked and said, 'Needs must I open
this tower.' So he did off the locks and entering, found within figures of Arabs on their horses
and camels, covered with turbans with hanging ends, girt with swords and bearing long lances
in their hands. He found there also a scroll, with these words written therein: 'Whenas this
door is opened, a people of the Arabs, after the likeness of the figures here depictured, will
conquer this country; wherefore beware, beware of opening it.' Now this city was in Spain,
and that very year Tarik ibn Ziyad conquered it, in the Khalifate of Welid ben Abdulmelik[FN#124]
of the sons of Umeyyeh, slaying this King after the sorriest fashion and sacking the city and
making prisoners of the women and boys therein. Moreover, he found there immense treasures;
amongst the rest more than a hundred and seventy crowns of pearls and rubies and other gems,
and a saloon, in which horsemen might tilt with spears, full of vessels of gold and silver,
such as no description can comprise. Moreover, he found there also the table of food of the
prophet of God, Solomon son of David (on whom be peace), which is extant even now in a city
of the Greeks; it is told that it was of green emerald, with vessels of gold and platters of
chrysolite; likewise, the Psalms written in the [ancient] Greek character, on leaves of gold
set with jewels, together with a book setting forth the properties of stones and herbs and
minerals, as well as the use of charms and talismans and the canons of the art of alchemy,
and another that treated of the art of cutting and setting rubies and other [precious] stones
and of the preparation of poisons and antidotes. There found he also a representation of the
configuration of the earth and the seas and the different towns and countries and villages
of the world and a great hall full of hermetic powder, one drachm of which would turn a thousand
drachms of silver into fine gold; likewise a marvellous great round mirror of mixed metals,
made for Solomon son of David (on whom be peace), wherein whoso looked might see the very image
and presentment of the seven divisions of the world, and a chamber full of carbuncles, such
as no words can suffice to set forth, many camel-loads. So he despatched all these things to
Welid ben Abdulmelik, and the Arabs spread all over the cities of Spain, which is one of the
finest of lands. This is the end of the story of the City of Lebtait.

             THE KHALIF HISHAM AND THE ARAB YOUTH.

