If Mr. HAROLD LAKE'S account of the British forces in Macedonia is supposed to supply an answer
to a not unnatural query as to what they are doing there, I am afraid one must take it that
in fact they are doing nothing in particular. An intelligent British public believes that at
least they are immobilising important enemy forces and perhaps accomplishing several other
useful things as well, but the writer, who has actually been In Salonica with Our Army (MELROSE),
frankly lays aside high considerations of policy and, seeing it all in desperately foreshortened
perspective, knows only that he and his fellows, having volunteered to fight, are being called
on instead to endure a purgatorial routine of dust and dulness, mosquitoes, malaria and night
marches, and the grilling away of useless days in the society of flies and lizards, with only,
as a very occasional treat, the smallest glimpse of anything resembling a Front. And all this
is in a country so desolated by centuries of war that in spite of obvious natural fertility
it is a sullen treeless desert--a desert of blight and thistles, as profitless to our men as
their periodically deferred anticipations of a grand advance. A book that sets out to record
vacuity can hardly be crammed with thrilling literature, and I am not going to pretend that
Mr. LAKE has achieved the impossible. All the same one found points--for instance, his desire
that someone (apparently England for choice!) should colonise Macedonia; and his most right
and appropriate plea for fairer recognition of those who have sacrificed their health in the
national service. A man, he holds, who is to suffer all his life from malarial fever has done
his bit no less than plenty who bear the honourable insignia of the wounded in battle and the
snout of a mosquito may be as valorously encountered as the bayonet of a Hun. And so say all of us.

       *       *       *       *       *

I can read Miss MARY WEBB'S studies of the peasant mind with great pleasure, but at the same
time I am doubtful whether she is as successful in Gone to Earth (CONSTABLE) as she was in
her first novel, The Golden Arrow. My difficulty--and I hope it will not be yours--was to believe
in the power of Hazel Woodus to make very dissimilar men lose their hearts and heads. That
Jack Reddin, a dare-devil farmer with love for any sort of a chase in his blood, should pursue
her to the bitter end is intelligible enough, but why Edward Marston, a rather anæmic minister,
married her and then forgave her escapades with Reddin has me bothered. I can admire Edward's
forgiving spirit, but cannot altogether pity him when his methodical congregation said straight
and disagreeable things. In fact my total inability to see Hazel as Edward saw her somewhat
detracted from my enjoyment of her history. That being said the rest is, thank goodness, praise.
Miss WEBB is a careful and sincere workman, who, whether you believe or disbelieve in her characters,
writes with such real compassion for suffering that she cannot fail to enlist your sympathy.
Additionally her vein is original, and she only needs a little more experience to make a great
success of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

