PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI

VOL. 103

NOVEMBER 12, 1892

THE GAME OF THE LITTLE HORSES.

(A SKETCH AT THE CASINO, DINARD.)

    On either side of the circular Race-course, with its
    revolving metal horses, is a Green Table, divided into
    numbered squares, around which the Players, who are mostly
    English, are sitting or standing. A Croupier with his rake
    presides at each table. In an obscure corner of the balcony
    outside, Miss DAINTREE and her Married Sister have just
    established themselves. There is a Ball at the Casino, and the
    Orchestra are heard tuning up for the next dance.

The Married Sister. But SYLVIA, why have you dragged me out here to sit in the dark? I thought
you were engaged for this?

Miss Daintree. So I am--to such a horrid little man. That's why I fled. He won't think of coming
here after me!

The M.S. What made you give him a dance at all?

Miss D. JACK brought him up to me--so naturally I thought he was a dear friend of his, but
it seems he only sat next to him at table d'hôte, and JACK says he pestered him so for an introduction,
he had to do it--to get rid of him. So like a brother, wasn't it?... Oh, AMY, he's coming--what
shall I do? I know he can't dance a little bit! I watched him trying.

The M.S. Can't you ask him to sit it out?

Miss D. That's worse! Let's hope he won't notice us.--Ah--he has!

    [Mr. CUBSON, a podgy young man with small eyes and a scrubby
    moustache, wearing a tailless evening-coat and a wrinkled
    white waistcoat, advances.

Mr. Cubson. Our dance, I believe? (The Orchestra strikes up.) Isn't that the Pas de Quatre?
To tell you the truth, I'm not very well up in these new steps, so I shall trust to you to
pull me through--soon get into it, y'know.

Miss D. (to herself). If I could only get out of it! (She rises with a look of mute appeal
to her Sister.) We can go through this room. (They pass into the Salle des Petits Chevaux.)
Stop one minute--I just want to see which horse wins. Don't you call this a fascinating game?

Mr. C. Well, I don't understand the way they play it here--too complicated far me, you know!

Miss D. (to herself). Anything to gain time! (Aloud.) Oh, it's quite simple--you just put your
money down on any number you choose, and say "Sur le"--whatever it is, and, if it wins, you
get seven times your stake.

Croupier. Tous sont payés--faites vos jeux, Messieurs,--les jeux sont partis!

Miss D. I know what I should do--I should back 7 this time. I've a presentiment he'll win.

Mr. C. Then why don't you back him?

Miss D. Because I don't happen to have brought any money with me.

Mr. C. Oh, I daresay I can accommodate you with a franc or two, if that's all.

Miss D. Thank you, I won't trouble you: but do back him yourself, just to see if I'm not right.

Croupier. Les jeux sont faits. Rien ne va plus!

Mr. C. (throwing a franc on the table). Sur le sept! (To Miss D.) I say, he's raked it in.
What's that for?

Miss D. For the Bank, or Charity, or something--they always do that if you stake too late.

Mr. C. Swindle, I call it. And I should have won, too--it is 7. I've had enough of this--suppose
we go and dance?

Miss D. Why, you're not going to give in already--after so nearly winning, too?

Mr. C. Ah, well, I'll have just one more go--and then we'll be off. I'm going to try the 9
this time. [He stakes.

Miss D. I should have gone on the 4--it's time one of the even numbers won again.

Mr. C. Oh, would you? All right, then. (To Cr.) Pas sur le neuf--le quatre. (The Croupier transfers
the franc to 4.) They're off--can't tell the winner yet. Now they're slower--4's good--4's
very good. See where he's stopped, not an inch from the post! This isn't half a bad game.

    [A horse with a red flag at his head, labelled No. 9, creeps
    slowly up, and stops just ahead of 4.

Croupier. Neuf, impair, et rouge!

Mr. C. It's 9 after all--and I backed him first. (In an injured tone.) I should have won if
you hadn't said that about 4!

Miss D. (with secret delight). I won't advise any more. What are you going to back?

Mr. C. We really ought to be dancing--but I'll try my luck once more on No. 4. I shall put
on two francs this time.

Miss D. Shall you? How reckless! I heard someone say just now that No. 1 hasn't won for a long
time.

Mr. C. I took your advice once too often. There--4's going to win--see how he's going round--no,
he's passed.

    [A horse with a yellow flag, labelled No. 1, stops close to
    the post.

Croupier. L'As, impair, et jaune!

Miss D. Didn't I tell you so?

Mr. C. You only said I hadn't won--not that he would. If you had spoken more plainly--! I don't
think much of this game--I've dropped four francs already. How about that dance?

Miss D. (ironically). It would be rather a pity to go away without getting all that money back,
wouldn't it?

Mr. C. (seriously). Perhaps it would. You're sure you're in no hurry about this dance?

Miss D. On the contrary!

Mr. C. Well, look here, I'm going to put on a five-franc piece this time--so be careful what
you advise.

Miss D. Oh, I really couldn't undertake such a responsibility.

Mr. C. I shall follow this man then, and back five. (He does; the horses spin round, and the
race is won by a horse with a tricoloured flag labelled No. 5.) There, I've done it without
you, you see. (The Croupier pushes a heap of ivory counters towards him, which he takes up
with trembling hands.) I say, I scooped in thirty-five francs over that! Not bad, is it? I'm
glad I waited!

Miss D. Yes, it's better fun than dancing, isn't it?

Mr. C. Oh, lots--at least I didn't mean that quite--

Miss D. Didn't you? I did. What are you going to back next?

Mr. C. Well, I must just have one more turn, and then we'll go and get that dance over. I'm
going to plunge this time. (He spreads his counters about the board.) There, I've put five
francs on each colour and ten each on 8 and 9. You see, by hedging like that, you're bound
to pull off something!

Miss D. (as the horses spin round). All the yellow flags are out of it.

Mr. C. Doesn't matter, 9's red, and he's going first-rate--nothing to beat him!

Miss D. Unless it's 5, and then you lose. (No. 5 wins again.) How unfortunate for you. 5 generally
does win twice running, somehow.

Mr. C. (with reproach). If you had thought of that a little sooner, I shouldn't have lost twenty
francs! (A player rises, and Mr. C. secures the vacant chair.) More comfortable sitting down.
I must get that back before I go. I've got about twenty francs 'left, I'll put five on yellow,
and ten on 9. (He does. Croupier. "Deux, pair, et rouge!") Only five left! I'll back yellow
again, as red won last. (He does. Croupier. "Quatre, pair, et rouge!" He turns to Miss D. for
sympathy.) I say, did you ever see such beastly bad--? A Frenchman (behind him). Plaît-il?
Mr. C. (confused). Oh, rien. I wasn't speaking to you, M'soo. (To himself.) Where on earth
has that girl got to? She might have waited! She's gone back to the balcony! (He goes out in
pursuit of her.) Oh, I say, Miss--er--DAINTREE, if you're ready for that "Pas de Quatre," I
am. Hope I haven't kept you waiting.

Miss D. (sweetly). Not' in the very least. Are you sure you've quite finished playing?

Mr. C. As I 'ye lost all I'd won and a lot on the top of that, I should rather think I had
finished playing.

Miss D. So has the Orchestra--quite a coincidence, isn't it? You were so absorbed, you see!--No,
I won't keep you out here, thanks; my sister will take care of me.

Mr. C. (to himself, as he departs rather sheepishly). I've offended that girl--I could see
she was wild at missing that Barn Dance. I wish I had danced it, I'm sure,--it would have saved
me several francs. It was all her own fault. However, I'll ask her for a waltz another evening,
and make it up to her that way. Confound those Petits Chevaux!

Miss D. AMY, he's gone,--and I haven't danced and I haven't sat out with him--and he can't'
say it's my fault either! (She kisses her hand to the Petits Chevaux inside.) Thanks, ever
so much, you dear little beasts!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRUMMAGEM BIRDCATCHER.

(A LAY OF A LABOUR PROGRAMME.) AIR--"THE RATCATCHER'S DAUGHTER."

  In Vestminster not long ago there dvelt a lad named JOEY;
  He vos not raised in Vestminster, but in a place more goey.
  At snaring birds he vos a dab, of eggs (and plots) a hatcher;
  And he vos called young Vistling JOE, the Brummagem Birdcatcher.

  Young JOE of Grand Old VILL-I-AM, at fust vos pal most chummy,
  But second fiddle vos not quite the instrument for Brummy.
  Says he, "Old VILL vants his own vay, the vicked old vote-snatcher!
  But that arrangement vill not suit the Brummagem Birdcatcher!

  "I am as artful, qvite, as he, and much more young and active;
  I've a sweet vistle of my own the birds find most attractive.
  My nets may be unauthorised, and my decoys not his'n;
  Vot odds, ven those decoys vill draw, those nets the birds imprison?

  "VILLIAM's a old Monopolist, or vould be if I'd let him;
  But on this here pertikler field I'll lick him, that I'll bet him.
  I am a cove as hates the Nobs; I dearly loves my neighbour;
  And if I have a feeling heart it is for Honest Labour!

  "VILLIAM's decoys are out of date but ven I'd shake and rummage'em
  He gets his back up like a shot. He's jealous of Young Brummagem!
  I'll set up on my own account; and I've a new half dozen
  Of nice decoys vich I am sure the shyest birds vill cozen.

  "I am not arter nightingales, the pappy poet's darlings,
  I'm qvite content vith blackbirds brisk, and even busy starlings.
  The birds vot delve, vot track the plough, vot vatch the rustic
          thatcher,
  Are good enough--in numbers--for the Brummagem Birdcatcher.

  "VILLIAM may lure his Irish larks, and redpoles, tits, and finches,
  Good British birds vill do for me. I'm vun as never flinches
  From spreading of my nets all vide; vot comes I can't determine,
  But I don't care for carrion-birds, I looks on 'em as wermin!

  "And so I ups and spreads my nets. Vot if the birds see plainly?
  My vistle is so vondrous sveet, I shall not spread 'em wainly,
  Then, my decoys! Ah! them's the boys! In patience and in skill I am
  The cove to catch a big bird-batch, and qvite a match for
          VILL-I-AM!"

  Old VILLIAM and young Vistling JOE are rivals, vot vere pardners!
  And some vill back the Brummyites, and some the Grand Old
          Harward'ners;
  But vichsoever from the fight of victory be the snatcher,
  The Midlands own a champion in the Brummagem Birdcatcher.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"A ROYAL LINE" (IN THE BILLS).--The successor to King Henry the Eighth (at the Lyceum) will
be King Lear the First. "Le Roi est mort! Vive le Roi!"

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

The Baron pauses in the midst of his varied literary and philosophic studies to look into No.
46, Vol. iv., Part ii., of Our Celebrities, a publication which has been admirably conducted
by the late and the present Count ASTRORÓG, which is the title, when he is at home, of the
eminent photographer and proprietor of the Walery-Gallery. First comes life-like portrait of
the stern Sir EDWARD W. WATKIN, on whose brow Time, apparently, writes no wrinkles, though
Sir EDWARD could put most of us up to a few. Nor, strange to say, are there any lines on his
countenance, probably because he has so many other lines, existing and contemplated, in his eye.

But 'tis not alone thy inky cloak, good Sir EDWARD, that attracts the Baron, nor is it the
business-like profile of THOMAS DE GREY, sixth Lord Walsingham, Chairman of the Ensilage Committee,
that gives the Baron matter for special admiration; but it is the perfectly charming portrait
of "'DAISY PLESS' H.S.H. the Princess HENRY OF PLESS," which rivets the Baron's attention,
and causes him to exclaim, "She is pretty, Pless her!" Miss CORNWALLIS WEST, but now a DAISY,
now a Princess, came up as a flower at Ruthin Castle, and "in 1891 Prince HENRY OF PLESS,"
says the brief narrative written by A. BULL (an example of "a bull and no mistake") "wooed
and won the beauty of the Season,"--lucky 'ARRY PLESS!--and then Prince 'ARRY took his bride
to Furstenstein, in Silesia, "a fine schloss, with beautiful gardens and terraces,"--in short,
"a Pleasaunce." Count ASTRORÓG may do, as he has done, many excellent photographic portraits,
but this one will be uncommonly "hard to beat," and King of Photographers as he seems to be,
it is not every day that he has so charming a subject as Princess DAISY presented to him. Receive,
Count ASTRORÓG-WALERY, of the Walery-Gallery, without any raillery, the congratulations most
sincere of the

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE PLAYERS ARE COME!"

First Player (who has had a run of ill-luck). I'm regularly haunted by the recollection of
my losses at Baccarat.

Second Player. Quite Shakspearian! "Banco's" Ghost.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

CONVERSATIONAL HINTS FOR YOUNG SHOOTERS.

LUNCH (continued).--How delightful it is to awaken interest in the female breast, to make the
heart of lovely woman go pit-pat, as her eyes read the words one's pen has written. Even in
drawing-rooms and boudoirs, it seems, bright eyes have marked these attempts to teach a correct
conversational manner to those who engage in game-shooting. Here is one letter of the hundreds
that Mr. Punch has one by one pressed to his gallant lips with an emotion that might, perhaps,
not have been expected from one of his years and discretion. But how shall time or caution
prevail against universal love? The flame burns on with an unquenchable ardour. Beautiful beings,
the Punch of your affections is true to you all. He takes you in a lump and loves you. He takes
you singly and adores you, passionately but paternally. Here, therefore, is the letter:--

DEAREST MR. PUNCH,

We have all been so delighted to read your articles about shooting. I read them to Papa after
dinner in the drawing-room. Mamma says she doesn't understand such matters; but, of course,
things have altered very much since her young days, as she is always telling us. Now I want
to ask your opinion about an important point. Do you think girls ought to go out and join the
men at lunch? We all think it so delightful, but FRED, my eldest brother, makes himself extremely
disagreeable about it--at least he did till last week, when EMILY RAYBURN, who is my very dearest
friend, was staying with us. Then he told me we might come for a change, but we were to go
home again directly afterwards. Generally he says that women are a bore out shooting. Please
tell us, dear Mr. Punch, what you really think about it.

With much love, yours always,

ROSE LARKING.

P.S.--I am so glad you write the word "lunch," and not "luncheon." I told FRED that--but he
went to Johnson's Dictionary, and read out something about "Lunch" being only a colloquial
form of "luncheon." Still, I don't care a little bit. Dr. JOHNSON lived so long ago, and couldn't
possibly know everything--could he?

R.L.

My darling young lady, I reply, your letter has made a deep impression on me. Dr. JOHNSON did,
as you say, live many years ago; so many years ago, in fact, that (as a little friend of Mr.
Punch once said, with a sigh, on hearing that someone would have been one hundred and fifty
years old if he had been alive at the present day) he must be "a orfle old angel now." The
word "lunch" is short, crisp, and appetising. The word "luncheon" is of a certain pomposity,
which, though it may suit the mansions of the great, is out of place when applied to the meals
of active sportsmen. So we will continue, if you please, to speak of "lunch." And now for your
question. My charming ROSE, this little treatise does not profess to do anything more than
teach young sportsmen how to converse. I assume that they have learnt shooting from other instructors.
And as to the details of shooting-parties, how they should be composed, what they should do
or avoid, and how they should bear themselves generally--the subject is too great, too solemn,
too noble to be entered upon with a light heart. At any rate, that is not my purpose here.
It was rude--very rude--of FRED to say you were a bore--and I am sure it wasn't true. I can
picture you tripping daintily along with your pretty companions to the lunch rendezvous. You
are dressed in a perfectly fitting, tailor-made dress, cut short in the skirt, and displaying
the very neatest and smallest pair of ankles that ever were seen. And your dear little nose
is just a leetle--not red, no, certainly not red, but just delicately pink on its jolly little
tip, having gallantly braved the north wind without a veil. To call you a bore is absurd. But
men are such brutes, and it is as certain as that two and two (even at our public schools)
make four, that ladies are--what shall I say?--not so popular as they always ought to be when
they come amongst shooters engaged in their sport. Even at lunch they are not always welcomed
with enthusiasm. This is, perhaps, wrong, for, after all, they can do no harm there.

But, darling ROSE, I am sure FRED was perfectly right to send you home again directly the meal
was over, though it must have wrung his manly heart to part from EMILY RAYBURN. Even, I, the
veteran sportsman Punch, have qualms when a poor bird has been merely wounded, or when a maimed
hare shrieks as the dog seizes it. I cannot, as I say, discuss the ethics of the question.
The good shot is the merciful shot. But, after all, in killing of every kind, whether by the
gun or the butcher's knife, there is an element of cruelty. And therefore, my pretty ROSE,
you must keep away from the shooting. Besides, have I not seen a good shot "tailor" half-a-dozen
pheasants in succession, merely because a chattering lady--not a dear, pleasant little lump
of delight like you, ROSE--had posted herself beside him, and made him nervous? By all means
come to lunch if you must, but, equally by all means, leave the guns to themselves afterwards.
As for ladies who themselves shoot, why the best I can wish them is, that they should promptly
shoot themselves. I can't abide them. Away with them!

But, in order that the purpose of this work may be fulfilled, and the conversational method
inculcated, I here give a short "Ladies-at-lunch-dialogue," phonographically recorded, as a
party of five guns was approaching the place of lunch, at about 1:30 P.M.

First Sportsman (addressing his companion). Now then, TOMMY, my son, just smarten yourself
up a bit, and look pretty. The ladies are coming to lunch.

Tommy (horror--struck.) What? The women coming to lunch? No, hang it all, you're joking. Say
you are--do!

First Sp. Joking? Not I! I tell you six solid women are going to lunch with us. I heard 'em
all talking about it after breakfast, and thinking it would be, oh, such fun! By the way, I
suppose you know you've got a hole in your knickerbockers.

Tommy (looking down, and perceiving a huge and undisguisable rent). Good Heavens! so I have.
I must have done it getting over the last fence. Isn't it awful? I can't show like this. Have
you got any pins?

    [The Keeper eventually promises that there shall be pins at
    the farm-house.

Another Sportsman (bringing up the rear with a companion). Hope we shan't be long over lunch.
There's a lot of ground to cover this afternoon, and old SYKES tells me they've got a splendid
head of birds this year, I always think--(He breaks off suddenly; an expression of intense
alarm comes over his face.) Why, what's that? No, it can't be. Yes, by Jingo, it is. It's the
whole blessed lot of women come out to lunch, my wife and all. Well, poor thing, she couldn't
help it. Had to come with the rest, I suppose. But it's mean of CHALMERS--I swear it is. He
ought not to have allowed it. And then, never to let on about it to us. Well, my day's spoilt,
if they come on with us afterwards. I couldn't shoot an ostrich sitting with a woman chattering:
to me. Miss CHICKWEED's got her eye on you. LLOYD. She's marked you. No good trying to do a
ramp. You're nailed, my boy, nailed!

Lloyd. Hang Miss CHICKWEED! She half killed me last night with all kinds of silly questions.
Asked me to be sure and bring her home a rocketing rabbit, because she'd heard they were very
valuable. Why can't the women stay at home?

    [They walk on moodily.

A few minutes later. Lunch has just begun.

Miss Chickweed (middle-aged, but skittish). Oh, you naughty men, how long you have kept us
waiting! Now, Captain LLOYD, did you shoot really well? Or, were you thinking of--Well, perhaps
I oughtn't to say. See how discreet I am. But do tell me, all of you, exactly how many birds
you shot--I do so like to hear about it. You begin, Captain LLOYD. How many did you shoot?
(Without waiting for an answer.) I'm sure you must have shot a dozen. Yes, I guess a dozen.
And, oh, do give me a feather for my hat! It will be so nice to have a real feather to put
in it. And we've got such a treat for you. MARY, you tell them. No, I'll tell them myself.
If you're all very good at lunch, we're going to walk with you a little afterwards. There!

    [But, at this awful prospect, consternation seizes the men.
    CHALMERS (the host) makes frantic signs to his wife, who
    (having, somehow, been "squared") affects not to see. A few
    desperate attempts are made to express a polite joy; but the
    lunch languishes, and, darkness closet over the melancholy
    scene.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NAVAL INQUIRY.--The Howe and the why?

       *       *       *       *       *

THE VANISHING RUPEE.--A CRY FROM INDIA.

A Colonel laments the disappearance of the Rupee, and shows how, whenever he had a step up
in his Regiment (each time growing in importance and having more calls on his purse), the Rupee
at once took a step down, decreasing in importance and reputation.

  As a "Sub," free from family ties,
    With constant "fivers" from the Pater,
  The Rupee I thought a goodly size,
    Though once its value was much greater.

  Raised to Captain's rank, it so fell out
    I fell in love with the Station belle,[1]
  Got spliced; the Rupee, at once, no doubt,
    In spite, not in love, but value fell.

  Children came, money went, all U P,
    I thought, when promotion brought more pay
  (What luck!); but that slippery Rupee
    Decreased more visibly from that day.

  Cramming! Schooling! Bills by every post!
    But now, as Colonel, I think I see
  My way; but I count without my host.
    Vanished, like a ghost, has the Rupee!

[Footnote 1: By this I do not mean the Barmaid who presides over the stale buns at our Railway
Refreshment-room; I refer to the prettiest girl at the Military Station where I was quartered.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PREMIER AND PHYSICIAN.

(IMAGINARY REPORT OF AN UTTERLY IMPOSSIBLE INTERVIEW.)

So you got through your labours at Oxford, my dear friend, without feeling any ill effects?--Certainly,
never enjoyed myself more. Everyone paid the deepest attention. One Don actually used an ear-trumpet.

Well, and what do you intend doing next?--Oh, lots of things. You see my Parliamentary work
is next to nothing--not a moment more than ten hours a-day. So I must do something with my
spare time.

Certainly, I have no objection. But I should like to hear your programme.--I have only got
it into form for a week or so. Before the end of the year I shall have it ship-shape. But say
for November. Shall we say November?

Certainly. What do you propose doing in November?--Well, I think I shall retranslate the works
of HOMER, and write an exhaustive article in the Encylopædia Britannica (new edition) on the
"Life of WELLINGTON."

And that is all? Well, and a fair amount, too!--All! What nonsense! Why, that will take me
less than no time. Then I think I shall ascend Mont Blanc, so as to be able to see how the
summit looks in winter. Then I shall translate the Waverley Novels into Swedish.

Well, you might be worse employed, but you must not overdo it.--Overdo it! Certainly not! Why,
I am strong as a horse. And that reminds me, I think I shall attempt a long-distance ride on
my own account. I feel sure that I can do better than those German and Austrian fellows.

Where do you propose to ride?--From John o' Groat's to the Land's End, I fancy, will be the
course. I ought to do it in three days.

Of course you will use more than one horse?--Oh, certainly. No cruelty. And I think I shall
try the walk myself on foot, just to see if a horse will be able to keep up with me.

And is there any other exploit that you contemplate?--I thought I might perhaps dine with the
new Lord Mayor.

What! dine with the new Lord Mayor! Why, you would never be able to bear the strain; the great
exertion!--I was half afraid you might say this, so I have written and respectfully declined
the invitation!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"ICHABOD!"

GOG, loquitur:--

  Here's a pretty fine business, my MAGOG!!! Where are we a-drifting
          to now?
  These here tears in my eyes you must twig; I detect the glum gloom
          on your brow.
  Most natural, MAGOG, most natural! Loyal old giants, like us,
  Must be cut to the heart by these times, which they get every year
          wus and wus!
  It's Ikybod, MAGOG; I see it a-written all over the shop.
  Our glory's departed, old partner. And where is it going for to
          stop?
  That Feast of BELSHAZZER weren't in it for worritting warnings of
          woe;
  Which our beautiful Annual Banquet will soon not be worth half a
          blow.
  It's not half a blow-out as it is, not compared with old glorious
          gorges.
  I wish, oh I wish, MAGOG mine, we was back in the times of the
          GEORGES,
  Or even DICK WHITTINGTON's days, which for Giants was quite good
          enough;
  But they've spoilt all the good things of life with their Science,
          and Progress, and stuff.
  I see how it's drifting, dear MAGOG. The Munching House and the
          Gildhall.
  Did use to be London's fust pride. Is it so in these days? Not at
          all!
  Whippersnappers cock snooks at us, MAGOG; A ignerent pert L.C.C.,
  To whom Calipash is a mistry, whose soul never loved Calipee,
  A feller elected by groundlings, who can't tell Madeira from Port,
  Some sour-faced suburban Dissenter--he, MAGOG, may make us his
          sport,
  Without being popped in the pillory! Proper old punishment that!
  As all the old punishments was. We're a-getting too flabby,
          that's flat.
  The gallows, the stocks, and the pillory kept rebel rascals in hor,
  But now every jumped-up JACK CADE, or WAT TYLER can give us his jor
  Hot-and-hot, without fear of brave WALWORTH's sharp dagger, or
          even a shower
  Of stones, rotten heggs, and dead cats. Yah! The People has far
          too much power
  With their wotes, and free speech, and such fudge. Ah! if
          GLADSTONE, and ASQUITH, and BURNS,
  And a tidy few more of their sort, in the pillory just took their
          turns,
  Like that rapscallion, DANIEL DEFOE, what a clearance he'd have of
          the cads
  Who worrit us out of our lives with Reform, and such humbugging
          fads!

MAGOG, loquitur:--

  Ah, GOG, I am quite of your mind! Which I don't mind admitting
          that KNILL
  To a Protestant Giant like me was the least little bit of a pill.
  Stillsomever, he's Lord Mayor now, and did ought to be backed up
          as such,
  For what City Fathers determine it ain't for outsiders to touch.
  But where are the Big Pots? The Banquet seems shorn of its
          splendour to-day.
  No Premier, nor no Foreign Sec., nor no Chancellor!!! Really, I say
  This is rascally Radical imperence! How can they dare stop away,
  From the greatest event of the year, when the words of ripe
          wisdom, well wined,
  Should fall from grave turtle-fed lips to make heasy the poor
          Public mind,
  As when PALMERSTON, DIZZY, and SALISBURY, spoke from that
          time-honoured Chair!
  And that GLADSTONE--he ain't no great loss!--but to think the
          Woodchopper should dare
  To neglect his fust duty like this!!! Oh! it's Ikybod, just as you
          say,
  My GOG. Civic glory's burst up, and the splendour of Lord Mayor's
          Day
  Is eclipsed by that L.C.C. lot and their backers. I'm full, GOG,
          of fears;
  The look-out's enough to depress us, and move the poor Turtle to
          tears.
  It's Ikybod, Ikybod, Ikybod! Oh, for the days that were gayer,
  No GLADSTONE, no ROSEBERY, no HARCOURT!!! Wy, next we shall have
          no Lord Mayor!

[Left lamenting.

       *       *       *       *       *

VERY CRUEL.--Mrs. R. was very much annoyed at something she said having been misreported by
a friend. "I can't trust him," said the excellent Lady; "he twists and gargles everything I say."

       *       *       *       *       *

OFTEN TALKED ABOUT BUT NEVER SEEN.--"A Clean Sweep."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MAN WHO WOULD.

I.--THE MAN WHO WOULD BE LAUREATE.

His name was LEGION. He had kept his eye on the Laureateship from his early boyhood, when he
sent verses to the Poets' Corner of the Bungay Weekly Mail, which sometimes published them;
then he cut them out, and pasted them neatly in a book, which he still possesses. He always
wrote on an occasion. "Lines on the Recovery of My Sister EMILY from the Mumps"; "Dirge on
the Decease of a Favourite Squirrel," beginning, "No more!" but there was always plenty more
where that came from, and is still. At College he was one of the three men who wrote in College
Rhymes, and secured for that periodical a circulation by taking a hundred copies each. LEGION
sent dozens of his, marked, to every poet he heard of, generally addressing them "Dear ALURED"
(if that was the Minstrel's Christian name), or, in verse, "Brother, my Brother, my sweet,
swift Brother!" This annoyed some poets, who did not answer; others were good-natured, and
would reply,--

"DEAR SIR,--I have to acknowledge, with many thanks, your Cebren and Paris, and anticipate
much pleasure from its perusal."

