4. It remains to consider what constitutes a serious outstanding doubt. The word outstanding
has been already explained. It means that we have sought for certain information, and cannot
procure it. Now what is a serious doubt? It is a doubt founded on a positive opinion against
the existence of the law, or its applicability to the case in point, an opinion fraught with
probability, solid, comparative, practical probability. The doubt must not be mere negative
doubt, or ignorance that cannot tell why it doubts; not a vague suspicion, or sentimental impression
that defies all intellectual analysis; not a mere subjective inability to make up one's mind,
but some counter-reason that admits of positive statement, as we say, in black and white. It
is true that many minds cannot define their grounds of doubt, even when these are real. Such
minds are unfit to apply the doctrine of Probabilism to themselves, but must seek its application
from others. The opinion against the law, when explicitly drawn out, must be found to possess
a solid probability. It may be either an intrinsic argument from reason and the nature of the
case, or an extrinsic argument from the word of some authority: but the reason or the authority
must be grave. The opinion is thus said to be intrinsically or extrinsically probable. The
probability must also be comparative. There is many an argument, in itself a very good one,
that perishes when we come to consider the crushing weight of evidence on the other side. An
opinion is comparatively probable, when after hearing all the reasons and all the authorities
on the other side, the said opinion still remains not unlikely, which is all that we mean to
say of an opinion here, when we call it probable. In ordinary English, the word probable means
more likely than otherwise, which is not the signification of the Latin opinio probabilis.
Lastly, the probability must be practical: it must take account of all the circumstances of
the case. Practical probability is opposed to speculative, which leaves out of count certain
circumstances, which are pretty sure to be present, and to make all the difference in the issue.
Thus it is speculatively probable that a Catholic might without sin remain years without confession,
never having any grievous sins to confess, grievous sin alone being necessary matter for that
sacrament. There is no downright cogent reason why a man might not do so. And yet, if he neglected
such ordinary means of grace as confession of venial sin, having it within reach, month after
month, no one, considering "the sin which surrounds us," would expect that man to go without
grievous scathe. In mechanics, there are many machines that work prettily enough in speculation
and on paper, where the inventors do not consider the difficulties of imperfect material, careless
handling, climate, and other influences, that render the invention of no practical avail.

5. The safest use of Probabilism is in the field of property transactions and of positive law.
There is greatest risk of using it amiss in remaining in a false religion. All turns upon the
varying amount of trouble involved in moral diligence of enquiry, according as the matter at
issue is a point of mere observance or of vital interest.

6. The point on which the probability turns must be the lawfulness or unlawfulness of the action,
not any other issue, as that of the physical consequences. Before rolling boulder-stones down
a hill to amuse myself, it is not enough to have formed a probable opinion that there is no
one coming up. That would be Probabilism misapplied. The correct enquiry is: Does any intrinsic
reason or extrinsic authority make the opinion probable, that it is lawful for mere amusement
to roll down rocks with any belief short of certainty that no one will be crushed thereby?
The probability, thus turned on to the lawfulness of the action, breaks down altogether. This
explanation, borne in mind, will save much misapprehension.

1. The sanction of a law is the punishment for breaking it. The punishment for final, persistent
breach of the natural law is failure to attain the perfect state and last end of the human
soul, which is happiness. If existence be prolonged under this failure, it must be in the contrary
state of misery. This failure and misery is at once a natural result and a divine infliction.
It is the natural result of repeated flagrant acts of moral evil, whereby a man has made his
nature hideous, corrupted and overthrown it. (c. vi., s. i., nn. 4, 5, p. 111.) For an end
is gained by taking the means, and lost by neglect of the means thereto. Now, as we have seen,
happiness is an intellectual act, the perfection of an intellectual or rational nature (c.
ii., s. ii., p. 6); and the means to it are living rationally: for a reasonable being, to do
well and fare well, must live by that reason, which is the form of his being. (c. vi., s. i.,
n. 4, p. 111.) Whoever therefore goes about contradicting the reason that is within him (c.
v., s. iii., n. 3, p. 74) is not in the way to attain to happiness. Happiness the end of man,
the creature of all others the most complex, is not to be stumbled upon by chance. You may
make two stones lean upright one against the other by chance, but otherwise than by a methodical
application of means to the end you could not support the spire of Salisbury Cathedral.

2. Man's is a progressive nature (c. vi., s. i., nn. 2,3, p. 109), himself being the director
of his own progress. Other progressive natures may be spoilt by their requirements being denied,
and contrary things done to them. Man has his requirements. It depends mainly on himself whether
he acts up to them or against them. If he acts against them, he so far spoils himself; and
once he is thoroughly spoilt by his own doing, the final perfection of humanity is gone from
him for ever. It is the natural result.

3. I have spoken (n. 1) of repeated flagrant acts: not that I would ignore the evil set of
the will that results from one gross and deliberate evil deed (see c. ix., s. ii., n. 6, p.
168): but because the case is clearer where the acts have been multiplied. However we must
not omit to observe, that it is not any vice, or evil habit, that formally unfits a man for
his final happiness, but an actual evil set of the will, coming of actual sin unrepented of,
which set is more decided, when that uncancelled sin is the last of many such, and the outcome
of a habit. But supposing an habitual sinner to have repented, and his repentance to have been
ratified by God, and that he dies, not actually in sin, but before the habit of sin has been
eradicated (c. v., s. ii., n. 1, p. 69),--we may say of him, that his "foot is set in the right
way," that is, his will is actually right, and the obstacle to happiness is removed. The evil
habit in him is not an actual adhesion of his will to evil, but a proneness to relapse into
that state. It is only remotely and potentially evil. It is a seed of evil, which however will
not germinate in the good and blissful surroundings to which the soul has been transplanted,
but remain for ever sterile, or rather, will speedily decay.

4. If we leave God out of morality, and take account only of the philosophical aspect of sin
(c. vi., s. ii., n. 6, p. 119), we have nothing further to say of the sanction than this, which
has been said: "Act against nature, and you will end by ruining your nature, and fail of your
final perfection and happiness." But now God comes in, the giver of the law of nature; and
the failure, already a natural result, must henceforth be viewed also as a Divine chastisement.
There is no law without a sanction. There is no law, the giver of which can allow it to be
broken with impunity. A legislator who dispensed with all sanction, would rightly be taken
by young and old not to be in earnest in his command. If then God must give a law to man whom
He has created (c. vi., s. ii., n. 9, p. 120), He must attach a sanction to that law; and if
the law is according to the exigency of human nature (c. vi., s. ii., n. 11, p. 122), so will
the sanction also be the natural outcome of that exigency set at naught and that law broken.

5. Our position gains by the consideration, that the object, in the contemplation of which
man's soul is to be finally and perfectly blessed in the natural order, is the Creator seen
through the veils of His works. (c.ii., s.iv., p. 21.) This mediate vision of God, albeit it
is to be the work of a future existence, needs practice and preparation in this life. God will
not be discerned by the man who has not been accustomed to look for Him. He will not be seen
by the swine, who with head to earth has eaten his fill of sensual pleasures, and has cared
for nothing better. He will not be seen by the covetous man and the oppressor, who never identified
His image hidden away under the labour-stained dress of the poor. He will not be seen by the
man, who never looked up into His face in prayer here below. He will not be seen by the earth-laden
spirit, that cared nothing at all for God, that hated the mention of His name, that proclaimed
Him, or at least wished Him, not to be at all.

6. It will be said that this argumentation supposes the habits of vice, contracted on earth,
to remain in the soul after departure: but there is no proof of that: nay of some vices--those
that have more to do with the body, as drunkenness--the habits cannot possibly remain, seeing
that the appetite wherein they were resident has perished with the body. First, as regards
the instance cited, I reply that we may consider drunkenness in two ways, on the one hand as
a turning to the creature, on the other as a turning away from reason and the Creator. The
craving for liquor cannot remain in the soul after death exactly as it was before, though it
probably continues in some analogous form, as a thirst for wild and irregular excitement: but
the loathing and horror of the ways of reason and of God, engendered by frequent voluntary
intoxication, still continues in the soul. And from this observation we draw the general answer,
that whereas in every sin, whether sensual or spiritual, the most important part is played
by the will, and the will is a spiritual, not an organic faculty, a faculty which is a main
element of the soul whether in or out of the body,--therefore the evil bent and inclination
of the will, which sin involves, must remain even in the departed spirit. Lastly, we may ask:
To what purpose is our free-will given us, if all souls, good and bad alike, users and abusers
of the liberty they had on earth, enter into their long home all of one uniform and spotless hue?

7. Thus then it comes to be, by order of nature and good consequence, that the man who has
abandoned God, goes without God; and he who has shunned his last end and final good, arrives
not unto it; and he who would not go, when invited, to the feast, eats not of the same: and
whoso has withdrawn from God, from him God withdraws. "A curse he loved, and it shall come
upon him; and he would not have a blessing, and it shall be far from him. (Psalm cviii. 18, 19.)

8. Conversely, we might argue the final happiness which attaches to the observance of the law
of nature. (c. ii., s. v., p. 26.)

Readings.--St. Thos., Cont. Gent., iii., cc. 140, 141, 143, 145.

SECTION II.--Of the Finality of the aforesaid Sanction.

1. By a final, as distinguished from an eternal state, is here meant the last state of existence
in a creature, whether that state go on for ever, in which case it is final and eternal, or
whether it terminate in the cessation of that creature's being, which is a case of a state
final, but not eternal. Whether the unhappy souls of men, who have incurred the last sentence
of the natural law, shall exist for eternity, is not a question for philosophy to decide with
certainty. The philosopher rules everything a priori, showing what must be, if something else
is. Of the action of God in the world, he can only foretell that amount which is thus hypothetically
necessary. Some divine action there is, of which the congruity only, not the necessity, is
apparent to human eyes: there the philosopher can tell with probability, but not with certainty,
what God will do. Other actions of God are wholly beyond our estimate of the reasons of them:
we call them simply and entirely free. In that sphere philosophy has no information to render
of her own; she must wait to hear from revelation what God has done, or means to do. Philosophers
have given reasons of congruence, as they call them, for the reprobate sinner not being annihilated,
and therefore for his final punishment being eternal. Those reasons go to evince the probability
of eternal punishment, a probability which is deepened into certainty by revelation. We shall
not enter into them here, but shall be content to argue that a term is set to the career of
the transgressor, arrived at which he must leave hope behind of ever winning his way to happiness,
or ever leading any other existence than one of misery.

2. The previous question has shown that some punishment must attend upon violation of the natural
law. Suppose a trangressor has suffered accordingly for a certain time after death, what shall
be done with him in the end? If he does not continue to suffer as long as he continues to be,
then one of three things: he must either pass into happiness, or into a new state of probation,
or his very punishment must be a probation, wherein if he behaves well, he shall be rewarded
with happiness at last, or if ill, he shall continue in misery until he amend. All this speculation,
be it understood, lies apart from revelation. If then the sufferer passed out of this world,
substantially and in the main a good man, it is not unreasonable that, after a period of expiatory
suffering for minor delinquencies, he should reach that happiness which is the just reward
of his substantial righteousness. But what of him who closed his career in wickedness exceeding
great? Mere suffering will never make of him a good man, or a fit subject for happiness. But
the suffering may be probationary, and he may amend himself under the trial. Against that hypothesis
philosophers have brought a priori arguments to show that the period of probation must end
with the separation of the soul from the body. But waiving all such arguments, let us suppose
that there might be probation after probation even in the world to come. But some human souls
would continue obstinately and unrepentingly set in wickedness, age after age, and probation
after probation: for the possible malice of the will is vastly great. What is to become of
such obstinate characters? It seems against the idea of probation, that periods of trial should
succeed one another in an endless series. It would be a reasonable rule in a university, that
an undergraduate who had been plucked twenty-five times, should become ineligible for his degree.
Coming after so many failures, neither would the degree be any ornament to him, nor he to the
university. A soul cannot look for seasons without end of possible grace and pardon to shine
upon it. The series of probations must end somewhere. And then? We are come round to where
we began. When all the probation is over, the soul is found either in conformity with the natural
law, which means ultimate happiness, or at variance with the law, and becomes miserable with
a misery that shall never terminate, unless the soul itself ceases to be.

3. It may be asked, how much conformity to the natural law is requisite and sufficient, to
exempt a person at the end of his trial from a final doom of misery, or to ensure his lasting
happiness? The question resolves itself into three:--how do sins differ in point of gravity?
is grave sin ever forgiven? is the final award to be given upon the person's whole life, a
balance being struck between his good and evil deeds, or is it to be simply upon his moral
state at the last moment of his career of trial?

4. It was a paradox of the Stoics, that all offences are equal, the treading down of your neighbour's
cabbage as heinous a crime as sacrilege. (Horace, Satires, i., 3, 115-119.) But it is obvious
that there is a vast difference, as well objectively in the matter of the offence, e.g., in
the instance just quoted from Horace, as also subjectively in the degree of knowledge, advertence,
and will, wherewith the offender threw himself into the sin. Thus offences come to be distinguished
as grave and light: the latter being such as with a human master would involve a reprimand,
the former, instant dismissal. Final misery is not incurred except by grave offending.

5. The second question, whether grave sin is ever forgiven, cannot be answered by philosophy.
Of course the sinner may see by the light of reason his folly and his error, and thereby conceive
some sort of sorrow for it, and retract, and to some extent withdraw his will from it on natural
grounds. This amendment of sin on its moral and philosophical side may deserve and earn pardon
at human hands. But the offence against God remains to be reckoned for with God. Now God is
not bound to forgive without receiving satisfaction; and He never can receive due satisfaction
from man for the contempt that a deliberate, grave, and flagrant violation of the moral law
puts upon the Infinite Majesty of the Lawgiver. The first thing that revelation has to teach
us is whether, and on what terms, God is ready to pardon grievous sin.

6. The balance between deeds good and evil is not struck merely at the instant of death. It
is being struck continually; and man's final destiny turns on how that balance stands at the
close of his time of probation. So long as he keeps the substance of the moral law, the balance
is in his favour. But one downright wilful and grievous transgression outweighs with God all
his former good deeds. It is a defiance of the Deity, a greater insult than all his previous
life was a service and homage. It is as though a loyal regiment had mutinied, or a hitherto
decent and orderly citizen were taken red-handed in murder. If however God deigns to draw the
offender to repentance, and to pardon him, the balance is restored. Thus everything finally
depends on man being free from guilt of grievous transgression at the instant of death, or
at the end of his period of probation, whenever and wherever that end may come.

Reading.--Lessius, De perfectionibus divinis, 1.xiii., c. xxvi., nn. 183, seq.

SECTION III.--Of Punishment Retrospective and Retributive.

1. The doctrine of the last section might stand even in the mind of one who held that all punishment
is probational, and destined for the amendment of him who undergoes it, to humble him, to awaken
his sense of guilt, and to make him fear to transgress again. On this theory of punishment,
the man who in his last probational suffering refuses to amend, must be let drop out of existence
as incorrigible, and so clearly his final state is one of misery. The theory is not inconsistent
with final punishment, but with eternal punishment, unless indeed we can suppose a creature
for all eternity to refuse, and that under stress of torment, a standing invitation to repentance.
It is however a peculiar theory, and opposite to the common tradition of mankind, which has
ever been to put gross offenders to death, not as incorrigible, not simply as refuse to be
got rid of, but that their fate may be a deterrent to others. Punishment, in this view, is
medicinal to the individual, and deterrent to the community. Eternal punishment has been defended
on the score of its deterrent force. Both these functions of punishment, the medicinal and
the deterrent function, are prospective. But there is asserted a third function, which is retrospective:
punishment is said to be retributive. It is on this ground that the justification of eternal
punishment mainly rests. We are however here concerned, not with that eternity, but in an endeavour
to give a full and adequate view of punishment in all its functions.

2. If punishment is never retributive, the human race in all countries and ages has been the
sport of a strange illusion. Everyone knows what vengeance means. It is a desire to punish
some one, or to see him punished, not prospectively and with an eye to the future, for his
improvement, or as a warning to others, but retrospectively and looking to the past, that he
may suffer for what he has done. Is then the idea of vengeance nothing but an unclean phantom?
Is there no such thing as vengeance to a right-minded man? Then is there an evil element, an
element essentially and positively evil, in human nature. No one will deny that the idea, and
to some extent the desire, of vengeance, of retaliation, of retrospective infliction of suffering
in retribution for evil done, of what we learn to call in the nursery tit for tat, is natural
to mankind. It is found in all men. We all respond to the sentiment:

  Mighty Fates, by Heaven's decree accomplish,
  According as right passes from this side to that.
  For hateful speech let speech of hate be paid back:
  Justice exacting her due cries this aloud:
  For murderous blow dealt let the murderer pay
  By stroke of murder felt.
  Do and it shall be done unto thee:
  Old is this saying and old and old again.

[Footnote 16: Aschylus, Choephori, 316, seq. These lines embody the idea on which the dramas
of the Shakespeare of Greece are principally founded. But when was a work of the highest art
based upon an idea unsound, irrational and vicious?]

Nor must we be led away by Mill (Utilitarianism, c.v.) into confounding retaliation, or vengeance,
with self-defence. Self-defence is a natural idea also, but not the same as retaliation. We
defend ourselves against a mad dog, we do not retaliate on him. Hence we must not argue that,
because self-defence is prospective, therefore so is vengeance.

3. A thing is essentially evil, when there is no possible use of it which is not an abuse.
Not far different is the conception of a thing positively evil, evil, that is, not by reason
of any deficiency, or by what it is not, but evil by what it is in itself. Such an essential,
positive evil in human nature would vengeance be, a natural thing for which there was no natural
use, unless punishment may in some measure be retributive. We cannot admit such a flaw in nature.
All healthy philosophy goes on the principle, that what is natural is so far forth good. Otherwise
we lapse into Manicheism, pessimism, scepticism, abysses beyond the reach of argument. Vengeance
undoubtedly prompts to many crimes, but so does the passion of love. Both are natural impulses.
It would scarcely be an exaggeration to set down one third of human transgressions to love,
and another third to revenge: yet it is the abuse in each case, not the use, that leads to
sin. If the matrimonial union were wicked and detestable, as the Manicheans taught, then would
the passion of love be an abomination connatural to man. Such another enormity would be the
affection of vengeance, if punishment could never rightly be retributive.

4. Aristotle, Rhetoric, I., x., 17, distinguishes two functions of punishment thus: "Chastisement
is for the benefit of him that suffers it, but vengeance is for him that wreaks it, that he
may have satisfaction." Add to this the warning given to the commonwealth by the example that
is made of the offender, and we have the three functions of punishment, medicinal, deterrent,
and retributive. As it is medicinal, it serves the offender: as it is deterrent, it serves
the commonwealth: as it is retributive, it serves the offended party, being a reparation offered
to him. Now, who is the offended party in any evil deed? So far as it is a sin against justice,
an infringement of any man's right, he is the offended party. He is offended, however, not
simply and precisely by your violation of the moral law, but by your having, in violation of
that law, taken away something that belonged to him. Consequently, when you make restitution
and give him back what you took away, with compensation for the temporal deprival of it, he
is satisfied, and the offence against him is repaired. If you have maliciously burnt his house
down, you bring him the price of the house and furniture, together with further payment for
the fright and for the inconvenience of being, for the present, houseless. You may do all that,
and yet the moral guilt of the conflagration may remain upon your soul. But that is no affair
of his: he is not the custodian of the moral law: he is not offended by your sin, formally
viewed as sin: nor has he any function of punishing you, taking vengeance upon you, or exacting
from you retribution for that. But what if his wife and children have perished, and you meant
them so to perish, in the fire? Your debt of restitution still lies in the matter which you
took away. Of course it is a debt that cannot be paid. You cannot give back his "pretty chickens
and their dam" whole and alive again. Still your inability to pay one debt does not make you
liable to that creditor for another debt, which is part of a wholly different account. He is
not offended by, nor are you answerable to him for, your sin in this case any more than in
the former.

5. We may do an injury to an individual, commit a crime against the State, and sin against
God. The injury to the individual is repaired by restitution, not by punishment, and therefore
not by vengeance, which is a function of punishment. There is no such thing as vengeance for
a private wrong, and therefore we have the precept to forgive our enemies, and not to avenge
ourselves, in which phrase the emphasis falls on the word ourselves. The clear idea and strong
desire of vengeance, which nature affords, shows that there is such a thing as vengeance to
be taken by some one: it does not warrant every form of vengeance, or allow it to be taken
by each man for himself. It consecrates the principle of retribution, not every application
of the principle. It is a point of synderesis, not of particular conduct. The reader should
recall what was said of the vengeance of Hannibal at Himera. (c. viii., s. ii., p. 144.)

