    "I think that neither Davison nor the other commentators have
    completely examined Gen. iv. 7. in all its expressions and bearings. I
    am surprised at Magee's omitting the argument from St. Paul's
    declaration, that by his [Greek: pleiônthusia] Abel obtained witness
    that he was righteous.... I must repeat my wish to have the word
    [Hebrew: PETACH] well examined."

A. B. C.

P.S.--Dr. Glocester Ridley (quoted by Bishop Van Mildert, in the notes to his Boyle Lectures)
takes the view afterwards adopted by Archbishop Magee, as to the meaning of the passage. (See
The Christian Passover, in four sermons on the Lord's Supper, by Glocester Ridley, 1742, p. 14.)

       *       *       *       *       *

ROLAND THE BRAVE.

Can any of your readers and correspondents, versed in "legendary lore," reconcile the two different
tales of which "Roland the Brave" is the hero? The one related in Mrs. Hemans's beautiful ballad
describes him as reported dead, and that his fair one too rashly took the veil in "Nonnenwerder's
cloister pale," just before his return. The story proceeds to tell how in grief her lover sought
the battle-field, and finally fell, with other brave companions, at Roncesvalles.

I have been surprised, when perusing Dr. Forbes's highly amusing narrative of his holiday in
Switzerland (pp. 28-9.), to find that he identifies Roland with the hero of Schiller's beautiful
ballad, who rejoiced in the unromantic appellation of Ritter Toggenburg. That unhappy lover,
according to the poet, being rejected by his fair one, who could only bestow on him a sister's
affection, sought the Holy Land in despair, and tried to forget his grief; but returning again
to breathe the same air with his beloved, and finding her already a professed nun, built himself
a hut, whence he could see her at her convent window. Here he watched day by day, as the poet
beautifully says; and here he was found, dead, "still in the attitude of the watcher."

 "Blickte nach dem Kloster drüben,
    Blickte Stunden lang
  Nach dem Fenster seiner Lieben
    Bis das Fenster klang,
  Bis die Liebliche sich zeigte,
    Bis das theure Bild
  Sich in 's Thal herunter neigte
    Ruhig, engelmild.
    .    .    .    .    .    .

Was this Ritter Toggenburg, the hero of Schiller's ballad, the nephew of
Charlemagne, Roland, who fell at Roncesvalles? Is not Dr. Forbes in error
in ascribing the Ritter's fate to Roland? Are they not two distinct
persons? Or is Mrs. Hemans wrong in her version of the story?
  Why so rash has she ta'en the veil
  In yon Nonnenwerder's cloister pale?
  For the fatal vow was hardly spoken,
  And the fatal mantel o'er her flung.

I shall be glad to have a clear idea of the true Roland and his story.

X. Y. Z.

       *       *       *       *       *

CLAY TOBACCO-PIPES.

An amusing treatise might be written on the variations in shape of the common tobacco-pipe
since its first introduction into the country. Hundreds of specimens of old pipe-heads might
soon be procured, and especially in the neighbourhood of London, where the same ground has
been tilled for gardening purposes perhaps {373} some hundreds of years, and has received fresh
supplies year after year from the ash-bin and dust-heap. I have about a dozen in my possession,
which probably belong to various periods from the beginning of the seventeenth to the end of
the eighteenth century. The dearness of tobacco in the early times of its use is evinced by
the smallness of the bowls, for many of them would hold at most not half a thimbleful of tobacco;
while the shank, where it joins the bowl, is nearly double the thickness of that in use at
the present day. If I recollect aright, the pipe as represented in Hogarth seems but little
larger in the bowl than that in use a century before; the shape being in both the same, very
much like that of a barrel. The sides of the bowl seem formerly to have been made of double
or treble the thickness of those now in use. This will account for the good preservation in
which they may be found after having been in the ground one or two centuries. The clay tobacco-pipe
probably attained its present size and slimness, and (very nearly) its present shape, about
the beginning of this century. I am well aware that, by many, all this will be esteemed as
"in tenui labor," but, for my part, I look upon no reminiscences of the past, however humble,
as deserving to be slighted or consigned to oblivion. Even the humble tobacco-pipe may be made
the vehicle of some interesting information. Will any of your correspondents favour your other
readers with some farther information on this subject?

HENRY T. RILEY. He was either Lord Normanby or Lord Mulgrave when the letter was written.

C. H.

Bersethrigumnue.--In the Escheats, 23 Hen. III. No. 20., quoted by Nichols in his History of
Leicestershire (vol. iii. part 1., under "Cotes"), occurs this unusual word. Gilbert de Segrave
held the manor of Cotes in socage of the king "by paying yearly one bersethrigumnue." Will
any reader of "N. & Q." favour me with its etymology or meaning? I imagine it to have been
a clerical error for brachetum cum ligamine, a service by which one of the earlier lords of
Cotes held these lands.

THOMAS RUSSELL POTTER.

Lady Jane Grey.--Neither Nichols in his History of Leicestershire, nor his equally eminent
grandson in his interesting Chronicle of Queen Jane, nor, so far as I am aware, any other author,
mentions the place where the Lady Jane was buried. The general belief is, I think, that her
body was interred with that of her husband in the Tower. But a tradition has just been communicated
to me by the Rev. Andrew Bloxam, that the body was privately brought from London by a servant
of the family, and deposited in the chapel at Bradgate. What is the fact?

THOMAS RUSSELL POTTER.

Addison and Watts.--Can any of your numerous readers inform me whether the hymn "When rising
from the bed of death," so generally ascribed to Addison, and taken from the chapter on death
and judgment in his Evidences of the Christian Religion, is his own composition, or that of
the "excellent man in holy orders;" and whether this is Dr. Isaac Watts?

S. M.

Lord Boteloust's Statue by Richard Hayware.--The statue erected to Lord Boteloust by the "Colony
and Dominion of Virginia" was "made in London, 1773, by Richard Hayware." I should be obliged
for information as to Mr. Hayware.

T. BALCH.

Philadelphia.

Celtic in Devon.--When was the Celtic language obsolete in the South Hams of Devon?

G. R. L.

Knobstick.--In these days of strikes, turn-outs, and lock-outs, we hear so much of "knobsticks,"
that I should like to know why this term has come to be applied to those who work for less
than the wages recognised, or under other conditions deemed objectionable by trades unions.

PRESTONIENSIS.

Aristotle.--Where does Aristotle say that a judge is a living law, as the Law itself is a dumb
judge?

H. P.

The Passion of our Lord dramatised.--Busby, in his History of Music, vol. i. p. 249., says:

    "It has been very generally supposed, that the manner of reciting and
    singing in the theatres formed the original model of the church
    service; an idea sanctioned by the fact, that the Passion of our
    Saviour was dramatised by the early priests."

What authority is there for this statement?

H. P.

Ludwell: Lunsford: Kemp.--Inscription on a tombstone in the graveyard of the old church at
Williamsburgh:

    "Under this marble lyeth the body of Thomas Ludwell, Esq., Secretary of
    Virginia, who was born at Burton, in the county of Somerset, in the
    kingdom of England, and departed this life in the year 1698: and near
    this place lie the bodies of Richard Kemp, Esq., {374} his predecessor
    in the secretary's office, and Sir Thomas Lunsford, Knt., in memory of
    whom this marble is here placed by Philip Ludwell, Esq., son of the
    said Thomas Ludwell, Esq., in the year 1727."

Information is respectfully asked as to the persons and families mentioned in the foregoing
inscription. Sir Thomas Lunsford is said to have come from Surrey, and to have served during
the civil wars.

THOMAS BALCH.

Philadelphia.

Linnæan Medal.--Has any reader of "N. & Q." in his possession a Linnæan medal? I mean the one
by the celebrated Liungberger, ordered by Gustavus III. in 1778. It is of great beauty, and
now very scarce: the following is a brief description.

It is of silver, two inches diameter. Obverse, a portrait of the naturalist, very faithful
and boldly executed, yet with the utmost delicacy of finish. The face is full of thought and
feeling, and the whole expression so spiritual, that this medallion has a strange charm; you
keep looking at it again and again. The inscription is,

"Car. Linnæus, Arch. Reg. Equ. Auratus."

On the reverse is Cybele, surrounded by animals and plants, holding a key and weeping. Inscription,--

"Deam luctus angit amissi."

"Post Obitum Upsaliæ, D. X. Jan. MDCCLXXVIII. Rege Jubente."

In the background is a bear, on whose back an ape has jumped; but the bear lies quietly, as
if he disdained the annoyance.

This was probably in reference to what he said in the preface to his Systema Naturæ: "I have
borne the derision of apes in silence," &c. Adjoining this are plants, and we recognise his
own favourite flower, the Linnea borealis.

E. F. WOODMAN.

Lowth of Sawtrey: Robert Eden.--In the Topographer and Genealogist, vol. ii p. 495., I find
mention made of a monument at Cretingham in Suffolk, to Margaret, wife of Richard Cornwallis,
and daughter of Lowth of Sawtrey, co. Hunts, who died in 1603. The arms are stated to be--"Cornwallis
and quarterings impaling Lowth and quarterings, Stearing, Dade, Bacon, Rutter," &c. Will some
of your correspondents give me a fuller account of these quarterings, and of the pedigree of
Lowth of Sawtrey, or especially of that branch of it from which descended Robert Lowth, Bishop
successively of St. David's, Oxford, and London, who was born in 1710, and died in 1787?

I should also be much obliged if any of your readers would give me any information as to who
were the parents, and what the pedigree, of the Rev. Robert Eden, Prebendary of Winchester,
who married Mary, sister of Bishop Lowth: was he connected with the Auckland family, or with
the Suffolk family of Eden, lately mentioned in "N. & Q.?" The arms he bore were the same as
those of the former family--Gules, on a chevron between three garbs or, banded vert, as many
escallops sable.

R. E. C.

Gentile Names of the Jews.--The Query in Vol. viii., p. 563., as to the Gentile names of the
Jews, leads me to inquire why it is that the Jews are so fond of names derived from the animal
creation. Lyon or Lyons has probably some allusion to the lion of the tribe of Judah, Hart
to the hind of Naphtali, and Wolf to Benjamin; but the German Jewish names of Adler, an eagle,
and Finke, a finch, cannot be so accounted for. The German Hirsch is evidently the same name
as the English Hart, and the Portuguese names Lopez and Aguilar are Lupus and Aquila, slightly
disguised. Is the origin of Mark, a very common Jewish name, to be sought in the Celtic merch,
a horse?

HONORÉ DE MAREVILLE.

Guernsey.

The Black Prince.--In Sir S. R. Meyrick's Inquiry into Ancient Armour, vol. ii. p. 18., he
quotes Froissart as observing, after his account of the battle of Poictiers, "Thus did Edward
the Black Prince, now doubly dyed black by the terror of his arms." I have sought in vain for
this passage, or anything resembling it, in Johnes's translation, nor can I find anywhere this
appellation as applied by Froissart to his favourite hero. Can the passage be an interpolation
of Lord Berners?

J. S. WARDEN.

Maid of Orleans.--Can any one of your correspondents tell who was D'Israeli's authority for
the following?--

    "Of the Maid of Orleans I have somewhere read, that a bundle of faggots
    was substituted for her, when she was supposed to have been burnt by
    the Duke of Bedford."--Curiosities of Literature, vol. i. p. 312.

J. R. R.

Fawell Arms and Crest.--Could any correspondent tell me the correct arms and crest of Fawell?
In Burke's General Armory they are given: "Or, a cross moline gu., a chief dig." And in Berry's
Encyclopædia Heraldica: "Sa., a cheveron between three escallop shells argent." In neither
work is a crest registered, and yet I believe there is one belonging to the family.

CID.

"Had I met thee in thy beauty."--Can you or any of your correspondents inform me who is the
author of the poem commencing, with the above line, and where it may be found? It is generally
supposed to be Lord Byron's, but cannot be found in any of his published works.

E. H.

{375}

Portrait of D. P. Tremesin.--Has there ever been any portrait known to exist of one Dompe Peter
Tremesin, who is supposed to have been the earliest equestrian who performed feats on horseback,
and of whom mention is thus made in the Privy Purse Expenses of King Henry VIII., p. 218.:

    "Paied to one Dompue Peter Tremesin, that dyd ryde two horses at
    once, by waye of rewarde, C corons, i.e. 23l. 6s. 8d."

J. W. G. G.

Edition of "Othello."--I shall feel much indebted to MESSRS. COLLIER, SINGER, &c. for information
relative to an edition of Othello which was shown to me in January, 1837, and had previously
belonged to J. W. Cole (Calcraft), Esq., then manager of the Theatre Royal, Dublin. It consisted
of the text (sometimes altered, I think) and notes connected exclusively with astrology. There
was, if I remember rightly, a frontispiece representing some of the characters, their heads,
arms, bodies, and legs being dotted over with stars, as seen in a celestial globe. It was published
about the year 1826, and was evidently not the first play of Shakspeare published under similar
circumstances; for I recollect that when Brabantio first appears at the window, a note informs
the reader that "if he will refer to the diagram of Brabantio in the frontispiece, he will
discover, by comparison of the stars in the two diagrams, that Brabantio corresponds with"
a character in another play of Shakspeare, the name of which I forget. Mr. Cole is now in London,
and connected with one of the leading theatres. I do not know his address.

M. A.

Prospect House, Clerkenwell.--Will any of your correspondents learned in old London topography
inform me when the "Prospect House, or Dobney's Bowling Green," Clerkenwell, ceased to be a
place of amusement; and where any account is to be found of one Wildman, who is said to have
exhibited his bees there in 1772. (Vide Mirror, vol. xxxiv. p. 107.) And in what consisted
this exhibition? Also, if any other plate of the Three Hats public-house, Islington, exists
than that in the Gentleman's Magazine? Also, if there exists any portrait of Mrs. Sampson,
said to have been the first female equestrian performer, and Life of Sampson, who used also
to perform at the gardens behind the Three Hats?

J. W. G. G.

Ancient Family of Widderington.--In an old Prayer Book, now before me, I find this entry:--"Ralph
Witherington was married to Mary Smith the 13th day of Nov. in the year of our Lord 1703, at
seaven o'clock in the morning, Sunday." Then follow the dates of the births of a numerous progeny.
Can any of your readers tell me who these parties were, or any particulars about them? The
early hour of a winter morning seems strange. Some of the children settled in Dublin, and intermarried
with good Irish families; but from the entry in another part of the volume, in an older hand,
of "Ralph Witharington of Hauxley, in the parish of Warqurth, in the county of Northumberland,"
the family appear previously to have lived in England.

I have never been able to find the motto of the Widderingtons. Their arms are, of course, well
known, viz., Quarterly, argent and gules, a bend sable; crest, a bull's head: but I have never
seen their legend.

W. X.

P. S.--The marriage is not entered in the registers of Warkworth. It may be in some of the
records (of the city) of Dublin. I have seen the motto "Veritas Victrix" appended to a coat
of arms, in which the Widderington shield had a place; but it was believed to belong to the
name of Mallet in one of the quarters.

Value of Money in the Seventeenth Century.--What are the data for comparing the value of money
in the seventeenth century with its present value? What may 1000l. in 1640, in 1660, in 1680,
be considered equivalent to now? There is not very much of it now standing, but the form of
the windows still exists. I have in vain looked in handbooks of the county for an account of
it, but I have seen none that allude to it in any way. It is very secluded, being hidden by
trees; and can only be approached by a footpath. In the centre of the edifice, there is a well
of most beautiful water, supplied from some hidden spring; and from the bottom of which bubbles
of gas are constantly ascending to the surface. The well is divided by a large stone into two
parts, one evidently intended for a bath. The peasantry in the neighbourhood call it the Virgin
Mary's Well, and ascribe the most astonishing cures to bathing in its waters. I could not,
however, find out what it was. Some said it was a nunnery, and that the field adjoining had
been a burial-ground; but all seemed remarkably ignorant about it, and seemed rather to avoid
speaking about it; but, from what I could gather, there was some wild legend respecting it:
but, being unacquainted with the language, I could not learn what it was. I should feed obliged
if any of your correspondents could give me a description of it, and any information or legend
connected with it. Near to it are the celebrated "Kaffen Rocks," which {376} show undoubted
evidence, from the shells and shingle embedded in their strata, of having at some period been
submerged; and the caverns which exist in them are very large, and bones of hyenas and other
animals are to be found in them. They are, however, very difficult to find without a guide,
and there are very few persons in the neighbourhood who seem to know anything about them. They
are very well worthy of a visit, and the surrounding scenery is beautiful in the extreme. I
shall be happy to put any person in the way of finding them, should a desire be expressed in
your pages.

INVESTIGATOR.

Manchester.

    [This is Fynnon Vair, or "the Well of Our Lady," situated in a
    richly-wooded dell near the river Elwy, in the township of Wigvair.
    This well, which is inclosed in a polygonal basin of hewn stone,
    beautifully and elaborately sculptured, discharges about 100 gallons
    per minute: the water is strongly impregnated with lime, and was
    formerly much resorted to as a cold bath. Adjoining the well are the
    ruins of an ancient cruciform chapel, which, prior to the Reformation,
    was a chapel of ease to St. Asaph, in the later style of English
    architecture: the windows, which are of handsome design, are now nearly
    concealed by the ivy which has overspread the building; and the ruin,
    elegant in itself, derives additional interest from the beauty of its
    situation. See Lewis's Wales, and Beauties of England and Wales,
    vol. xvii. p. 550.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Wafers.--When and where were wafers invented? They were no new discovery when Labat saw some
at Genoa in 1706; but from a passage in his Voyages d'Espagne et Italie, published in 1731,
it would appear that they were even then unknown in France. A writer in the Quarterly Review says:

    "We have in our possession letters with the wafers still adhering,
    which went from Lisbon to Rome twenty years before that time; and
    Stolberg observes that there are wafers and wafer-seals in the museum
    at Portici."

ABHBA.

    [Respecting the antiquity of wafers, Beckmann, in his History of
    Inventions, vol. i. p. 146. (Bohn's edition), has the following
    notice: "M. Spiess has made an observation which may lead to farther
    researches, that the oldest seal with a red wafer he has ever yet
    found, is on a letter written by D. Krapf at Spires, in the year 1624,
    to the government of Bayreuth. M. Spiess has found also that some years
    after, Forstenhäusser, the Brandenburg factor at Nuremberg, sent such
    wafers to a bailiff at Osternohe. It appears, however, that wafers were
    not used during the whole of the seventeenth century in the chancery of
    Brandenburg, but only by private persons, and by these even seldom,
    because, as Speiss says, people were fonder of Spanish wax. The first
    wafers with which the chancery of Bayreuth began to make seals were,
    according to an expense account of the year 1705, sent from Nuremberg.
    The use of wax, however, was still continued, and among the Plassenburg
    archives there is a rescript of 1722, sealed with proper wax. The use
    of wax must have been continued longer in the Duchy of Weimar; for in
    the Electa Juris Publici there is an order of the year 1716, by which
    the introduction of wafers in law matters is forbidden, and the use of
    wax commanded. This order, however, was abolished by Duke Ernest
    Augustus in 1742, and wafers again introduced."]

       *       *       *       *       *

Asgill on Translation to Heaven.--The Irish House of Commons, in 1703, expelled a Mr. Asgill
from his seat for his book asserting the possibility of translation to the other world without
death. What is the title of his book? and where may I find a copy?

ABHBA. No name of bookseller or printer. It may be seen at the
    British Museum or Bodleian. This work raised a considerable clamour,
    and Dr. Sacheverell mentioned it among other blasphemous writings which
    induced him to think the Church was in danger.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Ancient Custom at Coleshill.--I have somewhere seen it stated, that there is an ancient custom
at Coleshill, in Warwickshire, that if the young men of the town can catch a hare, and bring
it to the parson of the parish before ten o'clock on Easter Monday, he is bound to give them
a calf's head and a hundred eggs for their breakfast, and a groat in money. Can you inform
me whether this be the fact? And if so, what is the origin of the custom?

ABHBA.

    [The custom is noticed in Blount's Ancient Tenures, by Beckwith,
    edit. 1684, p. 286. The origin of it seems to be unknown.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

THE SONGS OF DEGREES.

(Vol. ix., p. 121.)

Too much pains cannot be expended on the elucidation of the internal structure of the Psalms.
In this laudable endeavour, your correspondent T. J. BUCKTON has, as I conceive, fallen into
an error. He assumes that those Psalms which are entitled "Songs of Degrees" were appropriated
for the domestic use rather than the public services of the Jews. I cannot consider that the
allusions to external objects which he enumerates could affect the argument; for, on the other
hand, we find mention of the House of the Lord (cxxii. {377} 1. 9., cxxvii. 1., cxxxii. 3.
7., cxxxiv. 1.); the sanctuary (cxxxiv. 2.); the priests (cxxxii. 9.); and the singers (cxxxiv.
1.), who attended by night as well as by day (1 Chron. ix. 33.): allusions which would sufficiently
warrant these Psalms being considered as connected with the temple worship.

The name Shir Hammachaloth, "Song of Ascents," prefixed to these fifteen Psalms, has given
rise to much controversy. The different opinions as to the import of this title may be thus
stated: 1. The ancients understood it to relate to the steps of the temple: of this supposition
I shall speak hereafter. 2. Luther, whom Tholuck is inclined to follow, renders it a song in
the higher choir: intimating that they should be sung from an elevated position, or, as Patrick
says, "in an elevated voice." 3. Junius and Tremellius would translate it "Song of Excellences,"
or "Excellent Song." 4. Gesenius with De Wette, considers that this name refers to a particular
rhythm, in which the sense ascends in a rhythming gradation; but as this barely appears in
one Psalm (cxxi.), the facts will scarcely support the hypothesis. 5. The more modern opinion
is, that (notwithstanding four of them being composed by David, and one by Solomon) it signifies
"Song of the Ascents" [Greek: anabasis] or "Pilgrims' Song," being composed for or sung by
the people during their journeys to Jerusalem, whether on their return from the Babylonian
captivity, or as they statedly repaired to their national solemnities.

The first of these hypotheses, though in least repute, I am inclined to prefer.

The title in Chaldee is "A Song sung upon the Steps of the Abyss;" the Septuagint superscription
"[Greek: Ôdê tôn anabathmôn];" and the Vulgate, carmen graduum, "Song of the Steps." In accordance
with which the Jewish writers state, that these Psalms were sung on fifteen steps leading from
the Atrium Israelis to the court of the women.

It goes on to state how the infant Mary miraculously walked up these stairs. In the account
of the same miracle, in the Protevangelion, ascribed to St. James, it is related (ch. vii.)
how the priest--

    "5. ... placed her (the infant) upon the third step of the altar."

From this comparison it would appear, that the "stairs about the temple" were synonymous with
the "steps of the altar."

I would therefore suggest, for the consideration of those better acquainted with the subject,
that these Psalms were adapted to be sung (not on the steps, as some think, but) as a kind
of introit while the priests ascended the steps of the altar.

To show their adaptation for this purpose, it may be worth remarking, that they are all, except
cxxxii., introits in the first Prayer Book of Edward VI.

J. R. G.

Dublin.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMERICAN POEMS IMPUTED TO ENGLISH AUTHORS.

(Vol. viii., pp. 71. 183.)

The southern part of the U. S. seems to make as free with the reputations of English authors,
as the northern with their copyright. The name of the South Carolina newspaper, which, with
so much confirmatory evidence, ascribed The Calm to Shelley, is not given. If it was the Southern
Literary Messenger, the editor has been at it again. The following began to appear in the English
papers about Christmas last, and is still "going the round:"

    "THE SORROWS OF WERTHER.--The Southern Literary Messenger (U. S.) for
    the present month contains, in 'The Editor's Table,' the following
    comic poem of Thackeray's; written, we are told, 'one morning last
    spring in the Messenger office,' during a call made by the author:--

     'Werther had a love for Charlotte,
        Such as words could never utter.
      Would you know how first he met her?
        She was cutting bread and butter.

     'Charlotte was a married lady,
        And a moral man was Werther;
      And for all the wealth of Indies,
        Would do nothing that might hurt her.

     'So he sigh'd, and pined, and ogled,
        And his passion boil'd and bubbled,
      Till he blew his silly brains out,
        And no more by them was troubled.

     'Charlotte, having seen his body
        Borne before her on a shutter,
      Like a well-conducted person,
        Went on cutting bread and butter.'"

I believe that Mr. Thackeray knows the value of his writings and his time too well to whittle
at verses in the Messenger office, and leave his chips on the floor; and that he is too observant
of the laws of fair wit to make a falsification and call it a burlesque. The Sorrows of Werther
is not so popular as when known here chiefly by a wretched version of a wretched French version,
and many who read these stanzas will be satisfied that the {378} last conveys, at worst, a
distorted notion of the end of Göthe's story.

Perhaps "despaired of" is too strong a word for "man fürchtete für Lottens Leben;" but there
is no peg on which to hang the poor joke of the last stanza.

H. B. C.

U. U. Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

"FEATHER IN YOUR CAP."

(Vol. ix., p. 220.)

In reply to MR. GATTY'S question, I beg to state that the Indian wears an eagle's feather for
every enemy he has slain. I have seen a boy of fifteen thus decorated, and was assured that
it had been lawfully won.

The feather is usually stuck into the hinder part of the turban, or head-dress, and either
projects straight out, or hangs down the back. This is exactly the fashion in which the Chinese
wear the peacock's feather; and it also is a mark of distinction for warriors, a military institution
similar to our knighthood, or, perhaps, what knighthood once was. (See De Guignes and Barrow,
&c.) I think McKenzie speaks of the eagle's feather, but cannot quote just now. According to
Elphinstone, the "Caufirs of Caubul" (Siah-posh?) stick a long feather in their turbans for
every Mussulman they have slain.

The similarity of style in wearing their feathers, and, above all, the coincidence of both
being the reward of merit, induces a belief that in times long gone by a relationship may have
existed between the Chinese and the American; a belief that is strengthened by other and more
curious testimony than even this.

The head-dress, or coronet of upright feathers, to which MR. GATTY seems to allude, I have
never heard of, as associated with warlike deeds. The coronet of feathers, moreover, does not
appear to have been peculiar to America. In the Athenæum for 1844 is given the representation
of a naval engagement, in which one party of the combatants "wear head-dresses of feathers,
such as are described in ancient Hindu records, and such as the Indian Caciques wore when America
was discovered by Columbus," &c. (p. 172.). Moreover, "the Lycians had caps adorned with crests,
stuck round with feathers," &c. (Meyrick's Ancient Armour, &c., vol. i. p. xviii.) We may suppose
this to have resembled the coiffure of the Mexican and other North American tribes.

Mr. Rankin says the Peruvian Incas wore, as a distinction, two plumes on the front of the head,
similar to those represented in the portraits of Tamerlane. (See Conquest by the Mogols, &c.,
p. 175.) I have seen, among the Wyandots of Sandusky, heads which one might suppose had been
the originals of the portraits given in his plate: turban made of gaudy-coloured silk, with
two short thick feathers stuck upright in front; the one red, the other white tipped with blue,
the great desideratum being to have them of different colours, as strongly contrasted as possible.

The Kalmucs, when they celebrate any great festival, always wear coloured owls' feathers in
their caps, &c. (See Strahlenburg, 4to., p. 434.) The Dacotas also wear owls' feathers. (See
Long's Expedition to Rocky Mountains, vol. i. p. 161.) The Usbeck Tartar chiefs wore (perhaps
do wear) plumes of herons' feathers in their turbans; and the herons' plume of the Ottoman
sultan is only a remnant of the costume in which their ancestors descended from Central Asia.

A. C. M.

Exeter.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERSPECTIVE.

(Vol. ix., p. 300.)

Your correspondent MR. G. T. HOARE is rather bold in describing the case he does as a "very
common error;" and I cannot agree with him that the façade of Sennacherib's Palace (Layard's
2nd book on Nineveh) is an instance of the kind. The theory that horizontal lines in the plane
of the picture should converge to a point on the horizontal line right and left of the visual
ray, is by no means new; in truth, every line according to this view must form the segment
of a circle more or less, according to circumstances. Apply this principle to the vertical
lines of a tower or lofty building, and every such structure must be represented diminished
at the top, the vertical lines converging to a vanishing point in the sky.

Some years since, this theory was brought forward by Mr. Parsey, and the subject fully discussed
at scientific meetings. There was much ingenuity in the arguments employed, but the illustrations
were so unsatisfactory that the system has never gained ground. The principles of perspective
are most ably exemplified in many well-known works, as they set forth very satisfactory modes
of delineation. The limits of your periodical prevent a fuller correspondence on this subject,
or I think it would not be difficult to {379} satisfy MR. HOARE that there are great difficulties
attending his proposition.

No recent discoveries in the art of perspective have tended to more truthful representations
than those produced by the recognised systems usually adopted. The method of showing the internal
courts, &c. of large groups of buildings by isometrical perspective, although very useful for
developing architects' and engineers' projects, is not a system that will bear the test of
close examination.

BENJ. FERREY.

G. T. HOARE is quite right in saying "that every line above or below the line of the horizon,
though really parallel to it, apparently approaches it, as it is produced to the right or left."
But he seems to forget that the same holds good in the picture as in the original landscape,
the part opposite the eye being nearer to it than the margin of the paper. To produce the same
effect with converging lines, the drawing must be made to assume the form of a segment of a
circle, the eye being placed in the centre.

JOHN P. STILWELL.

Dorking.

I must beg leave to differ most decidedly with MR. G. T. HOARE on this point. If it is in accordance
with the principles of perspective that, supposing the eye and the picture in their true positions
in relation to each other and to the objects represented, every line drawn from the eye to
any point of a real object will pass through its corresponding point in the picture, then the
supposed wall will form the base of a pyramid, of which the eye will be the apex, and the representation
of the wall in the picture a section parallel to the base, and consequently mathematically
similar to the base itself. But he forgets that this fact applies to the picture as well as
to the object. In fact, the picture is an object, and the parallel lines in it representing
the wall must have the same apparent tendency to one another as those in the wall itself.

[Greek: Halieus]

Dublin.

I am glad MR. G. T. HOARE has called attention to the defective state of the art of perspective.
His remarks, however, are too narrow. The fact is, that any two parallel straight lines appear
to converge at one or both ends, and one or both lines assume a curvilinear shape. For a notable
example, the vertical section of the Duke of York's column in Waterloo Place, from all points
of view, appears to bulge at the point of sight, and to taper upwards by a curvilinear convergence
of the sides.

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

       *       *       *       *       *

LORD FAIRFAX.

(Vol. ix., p. 10.