  207 [The Sun and the Wind had once a dispute which of them could soonest
      prevail with a certain traveller to part with his cloak. The Wind
      began the attack and assaulted him with much noise and fury; but the
      man, wrapping his cloak still closer about him, doubled his efforts
      to keep it, and went on his way. And now the Sun silently darted his
      warm insinuating rays which, melting our traveller by degrees at
      length obliged him to lay aside that cloak which all the rage of the
      Wind could not compel him to resign. Learn hence, said the Sun
      that soft and gentle means will often accomplish what force and
      fury can never effect. (Fable of the Sun and the Wind. Boreas et
      Sol.) This is one of forty two fables ascribed to Æsop, which
      Avienus, a Latin poet who lived in the age of Theodosius turned into
      elegiac verse. The employment of apologues, which is sanctioned by
      scripture, seems to be a natural mode of imparting instruction.
      These arrest the attention, disarm prejudice, give to unwelcome
      truths a pleasing form and imprint deeply on the memory the lesson
      that is intended to be conveyed. It is mentioned by Vincent of
      Beauvais, who wrote in the middle of the thirteenth century, that
      the preachers of his age were accustomed to quote the fables of Æsop
      in order to rouse the indifference and relieve the languor of their
      hearers. Special Hist. lib. iii. cap. viii. p. 31. Ven. 1391, ap.
      Warton’s Diss. on Gesta Romanorum p. i.—Ed]

  208 [That is united or interwoven.—Ed.]

  209 [Or available.—Ed.]

  210 [Mr. Binning had the authority of Jerome for saying this. When
      speaking of the Dead sea or as it is styled in Scripture, the Salt
      sea, his words are Demque si Jordanis auctus imbribus pisces illuc
      influens rapuerit statim mortuntur, et pinguibus aquis supernatant.
      In fine, if the Jordan, which runs into it, should when swollen with
      rain, carry any fish along with it, they die immediately, and float
      upon the surface of the bituminous waters. (Hieron Comment in Ezek.
      cap. xlvii.) He also states that no living creature of any
      description was to be found in the Dead sea. (Comment in Joel cap.
      ii.) According to Volney, clouds of smoke are still observed to
      issue from this lake, and he represents the lava and pumice stones
      which have been thrown upon its banks to be likewise indubitable
      indicators of the agency of fire. The water however of what Milton
      describes as—

      “That bituminous lake where Sodom dam’d”

      —though excessively bitter, and so heavy that the most impetuous
      waves can scarcely ruffle its surface is now perfectly transparent.
      M. de Chateaubriand who mentions this also informs us that he heard
      a noise upon the lake about midnight, which the Bethlehemites who
      accompanied him told him, proceeded from legions of small fish,
      which come and leap about on the shore.—(Travels, vol. 1, p. 397.,
      Lond. 1812). He adds, “M. Seetzen, who is yet travelling in Arabia,
      observed in the Dead sea neither the helix nor the muscle, but found
      a few shell snails.”—Ibid.—Ed.]

  211 [That is, guardians.—Ed.]

  212 [Or attempt to walk.—Ed.]

  213 [That is governed. “Most people in the world are acted by levity
      and humour.” South’s Sermons.—Ed.]

  214 [That is, spark.—Ed.]

  215 [That is, set conscience aside.—Ed.]

  216 [That is, corollary or consequence.—Ed.]

  217 [Of good spirit.—Ed.]

  218 [That is, compared to.—Ed.]

  219 [That is, disburthen.—Ed.]

  220 [That is, respecting.—Ed.]

  221 [Oyes, (from oyez, the old imperative of the French verb ouir, to
      hear) a word used by public criers, before making their
      proclamations.—Ed.]

  222 [That is, “pious frauds”.—Ed.]

  223 [That is, sue for you or make their suit to you.—Ed.]

  224 [That is, compared to those &c.—Ed.]

  225 [That is, the quarter.—Ed.]

  226 [It is unquestionably a remarkable fact that Pythagoras, one of the
      most celebrated philosophers of antiquity, represented the Great
      Author of all things to be possessed of a threefold form (Cudworth
      System. Intell. cap. iv. p. 446, June 1733). Nor is it less
      wonderful, as a learned writer has shown, that even the Chinese seem
      to have received, from the dispersed Jews, long before the birth of
      Christ, some knowledge of the doctrine of the Trinity. Bryant’s
      Philo Judaeus, pp. 283-290.—Ed.]

  227 [That is, a bottom, or ball of thread.—Ed.]

  228 [That is, to be manifested.—Ed.]

  229 [The word furniture had formerly a more varied and extensive
      signification than is now assigned to it. The old divines employed
      it to denote the union of the divine and human natures in the person
      of Christ, or the peculiar properties or qualifications with which,
      as the Messiah, he was furnished, to act in the character of our
      Mediator. “Consider that Christ’s calling to the office of
      Mediatorship may import three things his designation, his
      furniture, his investiture in the office.”—Gillespie’s Ark of the
      Covenant, p. 176. Lond. 1677.—Ed.]

  230 [Codrus respecting whom this incident is recorded was the last king
      of the Athenians. His subjects from reverence to his memory resolved
      that with him should terminate their regal form of government.—Val.
      Max. lib. v. cap. 6. Just. Hist. lib. v. cap. 6.—Ed.]

  231 [That is, appeal.—Ed.]

  232 [“What Mahomet did, lies within any man’s reach. He was authorized
      by no miracle, he was countenanced by no prediction. But what was
      performed by Jesus Christ, is absolutely above the power and the
      imitation of man.

      “Mahomet established himself by slaughter, Jesus Christ by
      commanding us to lay down our lives. Mahomet, by forbidding his law
      to be read, Jesus Christ by engaging us to search and read. In a
      word, the two designs are in all respects so directly opposite that
      Mahomet took the way, in human probability to succeed, Jesus Christ,
      humanly speaking, to be disappointed. And hence, instead of so
      irrational a conclusion, as that because Mahomet succeeded, Jesus
      Christ might, in like manner have succeeded before, we ought to
      infer, that since Mahomet has succeeded, Christianity must
      inevitably have perished had it not been founded and supported by a
      power altogether divine” (Pascal’s Thoughts p. 95. Lond. 1886).
      Whoever wishes to see this comparison carried farther, may consult
      the masterly sermons of Professor White, preached before the
      University of Oxford at the Bampton Lecture. These contain a view of
      Christianity and Mahometanism, in their history, their evidence and
      their effects pp. 225-463. Lond. 1792.—Ed.]

  233 [This was Cyrus, the younger son of Darius Nothus, king of Persia,
      and the brother of Artaxerxes. He was slain in battle, when fighting
      against his own brother. Plut. in Artax.—Ed.]

  234 [It has been said that the following circumstance led Alexander to
      lay claim to a divine origin. As he entered the temple of Jupiter
      Ammon in Libya, the high priest approached him, intending to address
      him as his son. But not being master of the Greek language, instead
      of saying παιδιον, (paidion) which signifies son he substituted
      s for n, calling him παι διος (pai dios) which signifies son of
      Jupiter. (Plot. in Alex.). Alexander required his soldiers to
      address him as the son of Jupiter. This excited the indignation and
      contempt of Hegelochus, one of his generals. “Do we acknowledge,” he
      said, “him to be our king, who refuses to own Philip to be his
      father? It is all over with us if we can submit to these things. He
      who demands to be thought a God (qui postulat deus credi) despises
      not men only, but likewise the gods. We have lost Alexander. We have
      lost our king. We have encountered pride, not to be endured by the
      gods, to whom he equals himself nor by men from whom he withdraws
      himself.”—Quint. Curt. lib. vi. cap. 11. See also the speech of
      Callisthenes in the presence of Alexander himself.—Arrian lib. iv.
      cap. 10.—Ed.]

  235 [These are the words of the Vulgate, signifying literally, that
      “grief occupies the heights of joy.” A humiliating truth, akin to
      this, is contained in one of the maxims of Hippocrates: Ultimus
      sanitatis gradus est morbo proximus. “The highest state of health is
      as near as possible to disease.”—Ed.]

  236 [The first of Francis Quarles, Emblems Divine and Moral, is the
      picture of a heart.  A representation of the globe covers the whole
      of the heart with the exception of the three angles or corners on
      each of which a syllable of the word Tri ni tas is imprinted.

      Frances Quarles was secretary to Archbishop Usher. He died in
      1644.—Ed.]

  237 [That is, slight.—Ed.]

  238 [These are two adages. The former is quoted by Cicero as an ancient
      proverb in his days (De Senect. cap. iii.). The meaning of it is,
      that, “equals or persons of the same age and rank, flock together.”
      The literal meaning of the other is “like take pleasure in like.” It
      (το ὁμοιοι το ὁμοιο φιλευ) is as old as the days of
      Aristotle.—Ethic. Nicom. lib. ix. cap. 3.—Ed.]

  239 [That is, compound.—Ed.]

  240 [That is, “the darkness of too much light”.—Ed.]

  241 [That is, a defect.—Ed.]

  242 [That is, genius.—Ed.]

  243 [That is, who look upon a part or portion of the gospel, as if that
      were the whole of it.—Ed.]

  244 [A celebrated English preacher, who was cotemporary with Binning
      makes a similar remark: “No question but those that have been so
      bold as to deny that there was a God have sometimes been much afraid
      they have been in error, and have at last suspected there was a God,
      when some sudden prodigy hath presented itself to them and roused
      their fears. And whatsoever sentiments they might have in their
      blinding prosperity, they have had other kind of notions in them in
      their stormy afflictions, and like Jonah’s mariners, have been ready
      to cry to him for help, whom they disdained to own so much as in
      being, while they swam in their pleasures. The thoughts of a Deity
      cannot be extinguished, but they will revive and rush upon a man at
      least under some sharp affliction. Amazing judgments will make them
      question their own apprehensions.” (Charnock’s Works, vol. 1, p. 42
      Lond. 1682). An ancient historian relates, concerning Caligula the
      Emperor of Rome, whose licentiousness knew no bounds, and who
      professed the utmost contempt for the gods of his country, that,
      when it thundered, he was accustomed from fear of the gods he
      derided, to shut his eyes, cover his head, and even conceal himself
      under a bed.—Suet. in Calig. cap. 51 Seneca de Ira, lib. i, cap.
      16.—Ed.]

  245 [That is, place or station.—Ed.]

  246 [That is, judge.—Ed.]

  247 [That is, to sue for.—Ed.]

  248 [Many of the speeches and actions of Philip, who was the father of
      Alexander the Great, are worthy of being remembered. A collection of
      his most memorable sayings has been made by Erasmus, in his
      Apothegmata Opus (pp. 268-279, Lutetiæ 154). The conduct of Philip,
      in many respects however, was very unlike that of a wise and
      virtuous prince. Like mankind in general, though he was reminded
      daily of this, he too often forgot that he was mortal.—Ed.]

  249 [There is no fact, connected with the history of former times, which
      can be more easily proved than this that religious sacrifices were
      prevalent throughout every part of the Gentile world. Animals, which
      were deemed suitable for sacrifice by one nation, might be
      considered improper for such a purpose by another. But in the most
      remote countries victims of one kind or another, and not
      unfrequently human victims were seen bleeding on the altars of
      superstition, and with the death of these, the idea of substitution,
      or of presenting life for life, was almost invariably connected.
      When sacrificing her victim, Ovid makes his votaress exclaim—“I like
      heart for heart, I beseech thee, take entrails for entrails. We give
      to thee this life for a better one”—

      Cor pro corde, precor, pro obras sumite fibras.
      Hanc animam vobis pro meliore damus
      Fast lib. vi. v. 161

      But “as Kennicot observes from Delaney, whatever practice has
      obtained universally in the world, must have obtained from some
      dictate of reason, or some demand of nature, or some principle
      of interest, or else from some powerful influence or injunction of
      some Being of universal authority. Now the practice of animal
      sacrifice did not obtain from reason, for no reasonable notions of
      God could teach men that he could delight in blood, or in the fat of
      slain beasts. Nor will any man say, that we have any natural
      instinct to gratify, in spilling the blood of an innocent
      creature. Nor could there be any temptation from appetite to do this
      in those ages, when the whole sacrifice was consumed by fire; or
      when, if it was not, yet men wholly abstained from flesh; and
      consequently this practice did not owe its origin to any principle
      of interest. Nay, so far from any thing of this, that the
      destruction of innocent and useful creatures is evidently against
      nature, against reason, and against interest, and therefore
      must be founded in an authority, whose influence was as powerful as
      the practice was universal and that could be none but the authority
      of God, the sovereign of the world; or of Adam, the founder of the
      human race. If it be said of Adam, the question still remains, what
      motive determined him to the practice? It could not be nature,
      reason, or interest, as has been already shown, it must therefore
      have been the authority of his Sovereign, and had Adam enjoined it
      to his posterity, it is not to be imagined that they would have
      obeyed him in so extraordinary and expensive a rite, from any other
      motive than the command of God. If it be urged, that superstitions
      prevail unaccountably in the world, it may be answered, that all
      superstition has its origin in true religion; all superstition is an
      abuse; and all abuse supposes a right and proper use. And if this be
      the case in superstitious practices that are of lesser moment and
      extent, what shall be said of a practice existing through all ages,
      and pervading every nation?—See Kennic, Two Diss. pp. 210, 211 and
      Rev. Exam. Diss. 8 p. 85-89.” Magee on the Atonement, vol. ii. part
      i. pp. 27-29.—Ed.]

  250 [That is, restrain.—Ed.]

  251 [See note page 96.]

  252 [Lucius Cinna was the grandson of Pompey the Great. It was through
      the intercession of Livia, the wife of Augustus, that Cinna was
      pardoned. “Do” said she to Augustus, “what physicians are accustomed
      to do, who, when the remedies they have employed do not succeed, try
      others which are entirely different. You have done no good by
      severity—Try now the effect of clemency. Forgive Lucius Cinna. Now
      that he has been discovered, he cannot injure you, but he can
      advance your reputation”—Seneca de Clem. lib. i.—Ed.]

  253 [Language of this description was in common use with the Antinomians
      of the time, as may be seen in Edwards’ Gangræna (Part First, p. 22,
      Lond. 1646). Gataker’s Antinomiania Discovered and Confuted, (pp.
      18, 19, Lond. 1652) and other similar works written about this
      period.—Ed.]

  254 [How inconsistent is this maxim of Machiavel with the semblance even
      of Christian integrity! Pascal, however, has supplied us with ample
      proofs not only from the books of the Jesuits but from their public
      Theses, that they hold it to be perfectly justifiable to calumniate
      their enemies or to charge them with crimes of which they know them
      to be innocent. He declares that this doctrine is so generally
      received by them (si constante,) that should a man dare to oppose
      it, he would be treated by them as a fool,—Les Provinciales tome
      troisieme quinzieme lettre.—Ed.]

  255 [The philosophy of Aristotle was called architectonica
      (αρχιτεκτονικη), pertaining to building, from αρχος a leader,
      and τεκτην an artificer), as if every kind of knowledge had been
      rendered subservient to it.—Ed.]

  256 [That is, arts or sciences.—Ed.]

  257 [The Records of the Presbytery of Glasgow show, that this Fast was
      appointed by the commission of the General Assembly. “The
      commissioun of the Generall Assemblie, upone the 25 day of June 1650
      did emit ane seasonable warning concerning the present dangeris and
      dewties unto all the memberis of the kirk. To draw neir to God, to
      murne for thair ayin iniquiteis, and for all the synnes,
      prophanitie, and bakslydinges of the land, to studie to mak peace
      with God in Cryst Jesus, to searche and try our wayis and to return
      speedilie to the Lord, and to lift up our hartis with our handis to
      God in the heavines, that he may spair and save his pepill, that
      thai be not a prey to the enymie,” &c. (Nicol’s Diary of Public
      Transactions in Scotland, p. 17. Printed by Bannatyne Club, Edin.
      1836). On the 28th of June, a copy of this warning was presented to
      the Scottish parliament, who thanked the commission of the General
      Assembly for it, and requested them to delay the printing of it for
      a few days, that it might be accompanied with a Declaration from
      them suited to the existing crisis (Sir James Balfour’s Annals of
      Scotland, vol. iv. p. 63.). When the Presbytery of Glasgow met on
      the 31st of July, 1650, “the brethrene that wer present declaired
      that yei had keepit the fast, that yei had read the warning” (Presb.
      Rec). See also Lamont’s Diary, 7th July 1650. The appointment of
      Fasts to be observed on the Lord’s day, was at a subsequent period
      disapproved of by the Church of Scotland. “Albeit by the treatise of
      fasting emitted by the Assembly 25 December, 1565, the Sundays were
      appointed for some fasts as being for the greater ease of the
      people, and since by the last act of Assembly 1646, a fast is
      appointed on the Sabbath next except one preceding the then
      following General Assembly, yet seeing the work to be performed on
      the first day of the week is, by divine institution, already
      determined, we ought to set about it exactly, which we all
      acknowledge to be a thanksgiving and not a fast. Extraordinary
      duties are not to interfere with the ordinary, nor is one duty to
      shuffle out another. If either should be allowed, it would look
      somewhat like the reverse of redeeming the time, for thereby
      diligence is rather diminished than doubled in the service of
      God.”—Overtures of the General Assembly, 1705.—Ed.]

  258 [“The abstinence is commanded to be from Saterday at eight of the
      clock at night, till Sonday eftir the exercise at eftir noone, that
      is, after five of the clock. And then onlie bread and drink to be
      used, and that with great sobrietie, that the bodie craving
      necessarie food, the soul may be provoked earnestly to crave of God,
      that which it most neideth, that is mercie for our former
      unthankfulnes, and the assistance of his holie spirit in tyme to
      cum.” (The Ourdoure and Doctrine of the General Fast, set down by
      John Knox, and John Craig, at the Appoyntment of the Assemblie in
      the year 1565, Apud. Dunlop’s Confessions, vol. ii. p. 686.) This
      Order was afterwards observed in all the fasts appointed by the
      General Assembly. (Id. p. 699.)—Ed.]

  259 [That is, “Nor does God please all, when he sends rain.”—Ed.]

  260 [That is, parts.—Ed.]

  261 [The army of the Commonwealth was now on its march towards Scotland,
      under the command of Cromwell, who had been appointed by the English
      parliament captain general of their forces. But the hopes of the
      people of Scotland had been revived by the arrival of Charles II.
      from Breda, about a fortnight before this, who, at the mouth of the
      river Spey, before he landed, had signed the national covenant, and
      also the solemn league and covenant, though the commission appointed
      to receive his subscription appear, on too good grounds, to have
      suspected his sincerity (Sir Edward Walker’s Hist. Disc., p. 158.
      Life of Rev. J. Livingston, written by himself, p. 51. Glasg. 1754.)
      A letter, addressed by Charles to the Committee of Estates,
      immediately after the battle of Dunbar, and dated Perth, 12
      September, 1650, contains the following passage: “Wee cannot but
      acknowledge that the stroke and tryall is very harde to be borne,
      and would be impossible for us and you, in humane strength, but in
      the Lord’s wee are bold and confident, whoe hath always defended
      this ancient kingdome, and transmitted the governement of it upon us
      from so many worthy predecessors, whoe in the lyke difficulties have
      not fainted, and they had only the honor and civill liberties of the
      land to defend, but wee have with your religion, the gospel, and the
      covenant, against which Hell shall not prevaile, much lesse a
      number of sectains stirred up by it. Wee acknowledge, that what hath
      befallen is just from God for our sinns, and those of our house, and
      the whole land, and all the families in it, have lykewise helped to
      pull downe the judgement, and to kindle this fierce wrath. Wee shall
      strive to be humbled, that the Lord may be appeased, and that he may
      returne to the thousands of his people, and comfort us according to
      the days wee have beene afflicted, and the yeares that wee have
      seene. You are going, you sat, upon the deuites, for returne of the
      afflicted land, (you do well to do soe,) and to try the
      instrumentall causes and occasions of the disaster and surpressal.
      Looke not too much upon second causes, the pryme and originall, and
      only cause, is God’s just displeasure: for the causes of defeats in
      armys, they are harder to be found out than in any other of the
      actions of men, a word, a sound, the mooving or remooving of any
      body or squadron, may be, and have beane, the causes of the losse of
      battles, and how often have pannicke feares seazed upon them, that
      never any ground or resone could be given for? Lay not the fault
      upon this or that, coming doune, or not staing upon a ground of
      advantage, or upon this person or the other. That is the worst way
      of all, for nothing devided nor discord can stand or prosper, but
      leaste of all ane army; any thing of that kinde is the sodaine ruine
      of it. Upon any other constitution it will not worke so soone.
      Therefore wee intreete and charge you, as ye feare God, love his
      cause in your hands, have affection to your countrie, or respect to
      us, that you will remember, you are brethren in a covenant, and that
      you now stand up and joyne together as one man for religion, your
      countrie, your wives, children, liberties, and us, as your
      predecessors have done in their difficulties in their generations.
      Wee shall as willingly as any of them be ready to hazarde our lyfe
      (nay to lay it down) with you for God, the covenant, and the honor
      and freedom of this hitherto unconquered kyngdome, with any handful
      you have together, or when it shall be thought convenient.”
      (Thurloe’s State Papers, vol. i. p. 163.) The gross hypocrisy of
      Charles, in putting his name to a letter containing sentiments like
      these, and thus exciting false expectations in the minds of his
      credulous subjects, must be apparent to all who are acquainted with
      his subsequent history.—Ed.]

  262 [The narrative of Hume presents an affecting posture of the
      cruelties perpetrated at the time of the Irish insurrection and
      massacre.  (Hist. of Eng. vol. iv. pp. 361-366, Lond. 1825).  It is
      said that “200,000 Protestants in two months space, were murdered,
      and many by exquisite torments, and many more were despoiled of all
      their worldly fortunes.” (May’s Brevary, p. 33. First printed in the
      year 1655. Reprinted London 1813).  For several years after this
      period, Ireland was laid waste by contending armies and by the wild
      rage of the native inhabitants.—Ed.]

  263 [A reference to this passage may be seen in the Life of the Author
      prefixed to the Work.—Ed.]

  264 [That is, compensated.—Ed.]

  265 [When the national covenant was first subscribed by King James and
      his household, and by persons of all ranks, in the year 1581, a
      number of Jesuits and popish priests had unexpectedly made their
      appearance in the country. Various dispensations from the Pope
      likewise had been intercepted, whereby the Catholics were permitted
      to promise, swear, subscribe, and do what else should be required
      of them, so as in mind they continued firm, and did use their
      diligence to advance in secret the Roman faith. These
      dispensations, says Archbishop Spotswood, “being showed to the king,
      he caused his minister, Mr John Craig, form a short confession of
      faith, wherein all the corruptions of Rome, as well in doctrine as
      outward rites, were particularly abjured and a clause inserted
      (because of these dispensations) by which the subscribers did call
      God to witness that in their minds and hearts they did fully agree
      to the said confession, and did not feign or dissemble in any sort.
      This confession [or covenant] the king, for an example to others,
      did publicly swear and subscribe; the like was done by the whole
      council and court.” (Hist. of Ch. of Scotland, pp. 308, 309). By an
      ordinance of council and at the desire of the General Assembly, the
      national covenant, along with a Bond for the maintenance of the true
      religion, and the safety of the king’s person and government, was
      again subscribed by persons of all ranks in the year 1590. This Bond
      had been previously entered into and signed by his majesty, and
      various men of rank and station in the kingdom, in anticipation of
      the threatened Spanish invasion, and as a counter association to the
      Holy League, which had been formed by the most powerful popish
      princes in Europe with a view to extirpate the reformed religion.
      When the national covenant was renewed in 1638, and once more
      subscribed by all classes of the community, the Bond which
      accompanied it was altered to suit the circumstances of the times. II., p. 136.). Sat. II. v. 83.]

  267 [Num. xxiii. 21.—Ed.]

  268 [Jer. l. 20.—Ed.]

  269 [“About the time of the first renewing of the covenant, there was a
      sensible change to the better in men’s carriage and conversation,
      most of all those who joined in opposing the defection not only
      reforming themselves from common and gross sins such as drunkenness,
      uncleanness, swearing, profaning the Lord’s day, slighting of the
      ordinances, self seeking, covetousness, oppression, &c., but giving
      themselves to the duties of religion and righteousness, such as
      sobriety, edifying discourse, chaste behaviour, hallowing of the
      Lord’s day, diligent seeking of the Lord in secret and in their
      families, attending on the preaching of the word as often as
      opportunity is offered, liberality, love, charity one toward
      another, a public spirit and zeal for God. But all these things are
      now decayed in many and they are again grown as ill if not worse
      than before.” Causes of the Lord’s Wrath against Scotland. pp. 48,
      49. Printed in the year 1653.—Ed.]

  270 [Much less.—Ed.]

  271 [An inference unfavourable to the religious character of the
      countrymen of Binning, has been too hastily drawn from this and some
      other passages in his works. (Orme’s Mem. of Dr. Owen, p. 129). The
      late Dr M’Crie observed, that this was like “the attempts of popish
      writers to prove the Reformation a Deformation, by culling
      quotations from the sermons of such Protestant preachers as
      inveighed most freely against prevailing vices.” (Christ. Inst. vol.
      xx. p. 624). In the “Representation, Propositions, and
      Protestations,” however, “of divers Ministers, Elders, and
      Professors,” printed in the year 1652, and probably about the time
      this sermon was preached, it is affirmed, that the religious aspect
      of the country had undergone an unhappy change, in the course of the
      two preceding years. “If we look back,” it is said, p. 3 “to that
      which we have already attained of the work of Reformation,
      (notwithstanding our short-coming in the power and practice of
      godliness,) what purity was there of worship, what soundness of
      doctrine, unity of faithful pastors, order and authority of
      assemblies, what endeavours for promoting the power of godliness,
      for purging of the ministry, judicatories and armies, and for
      employing such in places of power and trust as were of constant
      integrity and good affection to the cause, and of blameless
      conversation? And again, if we consider how in place of these,
      within these two years, have succeeded, for unity, division, for
      order, confusion, for purity of worship, outward contempt; for the
      power of godliness, atheism and profaneness; for purging of the
      ministry, judicatories and armies, sinful mixtures; for zeal,
      lukewarmness and toleration,—it is too palpable that we are far gone
      on in the way of declining, having lost much of that which we had
      attained, and that which remains being ready to die.”—Ed.]

  272 [The author and the other protesters disapproved not only of the
      proceedings of the civil and ecclesiastical judicatures, but of the
      composition of these courts, after the act of classes had been
      rescinded on the 30th of May, 1651. In consequence of the repeal of
      this act, they who, on account of what was in the language of the
      times called malignancy, had formerly been excluded from their
      places in the Scottish parliament, were allowed to take possession
      of their seats, by signing a bond, the terms of which the parliament
      prescribed. This the protesters considered to be wrong as a matter
      both of policy and principle. They likewise declared the assembly,
      which in July, 1651, met at St. Andrews, and afterwards adjourned to
      Dundee, and also that which was held in Edinburgh, in July, 1652, to
      be “unlawful and corrupt,” adding, that “although with the renewing
      of the national covenant, and with the casting out of prelates, and
      the corruptions introduced by them, the Lord was graciously pleased
      to give repentance to not a few who were involved in that defection;
      yet, since that time, there hath always remained a corrupt party of
      insufficient, scandalous, and ill-affected ministers in the kirk,
      enemies to the power of godliness, and obstructors to the work of
      reformation, ... that party perceiving that they were not able to
      endure trial in a time of reformation and purging, began the last
      year to lift up their heads, and speak a language of their own,” &c.
      (Representation, ut supra, pp. 11, 12). The protesters, moreover,
      are found complaining at this period, “how gracious and well
      qualified elders are removed and kept out from church judicatories,
      and ignorant and profane persons brought in, and more endeavoured to
      be brought in in their room, how gifted and gracious young men are
      debarred from entering into the ministry, and a door is opened to
      others, whereof some are loose and profane, and many are ignorant
      and strangers to the work of the Lord upon their own hearts.”—Letter
      from Protesters, subscribed in the name of many ministers, &c. met
      at Edinburgh, 17th of March 1653, by Mr. Andrew Cant, p. 6. See what
      is said in reply to this, in “The Assertor’s Answer,” printed in the
      same year, p. 18.—Ed.]

  273 [Acknowledge.—Ed.]

  274 [See note, page 126.—Ed.]

  275 [Recognise.—Ed.]

  276 [That is, genius or ingenuity (from ingenium, Lat.) “But gif
      corporall doth be commoun to all. Why will ye jeoparde to lois
      eternall life to eschap that which neither ryche nor pure, neither
      wise nor ignorant, proud of stomoke nor febill of corage, and
      finally, no earthlie creature by no craft or engine of man, did ever
      avoid?” Letter of John Knox from Dieppe.—Ed.]

  277 [That is, “He who cries up his descent boasts of that which is
      another’s.”—Ed.]

  278 [Much less.—Ed.]

  279 [This is a literal translation of a Greek proverb which is quoted by
      Aulus Gellius (Noct. Att. lib. xiii. cap. 17) and which has been
      rendered into Latin thus:—Multa cadunt inter calicem labrumque
      supremum.—Ed.]

  280 [Diod. Sic. Bibl. lib. i. p. 68.

      Venit ad occasum, mun lique extrema Sesostris,
      Et Pharios currus regum cervicibus egit.
      Lucan lib. x. ver. 276.

        The farthest west our great Sesostris saw,
      Whilst captive kings did his proud chariot draw.
      May’s Translation.

      Sesostris was so much affected and humbled, by the delicate appeal
      of the enslaved monarch, that he immediately commanded him, and the
      other unhappy kings who were harnessed to his car, to be removed
      from it.—Theophylact Hist. Maurit. lib. vi. chap. ii. Joan Tzetz.
      Hist. Chibad. iii. 69.—Ed.]

  281 [See note page 98.—Ed.]

  282 [Hear, O heavens and give ear, O earth. ver. 2.—Ed.]

  283 [Regret, or accusation.—Ed.]

  284 [Agreeably to the course of discipline in former ages, (Hooker’s
      Eccl. Pol. vol. iii. p. 15,) they who had been convicted of any
      gross crime were required by the First Book of Discipline, (chap.
      ix.) and by subsequent enactments of the Church of Scotland, to
      confess their sin in the hearing of the whole congregation. The same
      thing was required of delinquents by the canons of the Church of
      England. Dr. Grey, in his Impartial Examination of Neale’s History
      of the Puritans, (App. pp. 62-68,) has, from original documents
      which were in his own possession, furnished us with various forms,
      according to which, towards the end of the sixteenth century,
      offenders were appointed to make their confession, in different
      parts of England, in their respective parish-churches. The dues
      which, in cases of scandal, were exacted by the ecclesiastical
      courts of Scotland, were imposed and defined by acts of parliament.
      Power to levy these was given to justices of the peace, who were
      frequently members of the kirk session, or parochial consistory of
      their district. In the year 1648, the General Assembly “recommended
      to every congregation, to make use of the 9th act of the parliament
      1645, at Perth, for having magistrates and justices in every
      congregation.” (Rec. of Kirk of Scot. p. 511, Edn. 1839.) It was in
      this way, it would seem, or from elders acting both in a civil and
      in an ecclesiastical capacity, that the practice of exacting fines
      by kirk sessions arose and was continued. “You object that our
      church sessions did exact fines. But if you consider, that these
      fines, which you mention, are particularly imposed and determined by
      statute, and thereby appointed to be applied to pious uses, and
      therefore the demanding and uplifting thereof only, as well for the
      more summary and effectual restraint of sin, as for the end whereto
      they are destined, is in use to be exercised by kirk sessions, or
      rather by their officers and beadles in deficiency of the
      magistrate, this your scruple must quickly cease.” “The True
      Non-Conformist,” p. 55, printed abroad in the year 1671.—Ed.]

  285 [See Note, page 375.—Ed.]

  286 [This passage is quoted in the Life of the Author.—Ed.]

  287 [That is, the persons who prescribe or appoint it.—Ed.]

  288 [“The longer I live in the world the less fond am I of that divinity
      that stand upon quirks and subtilties. What should drive us upon
      determining whether faith or repentance goes first? What valuable
      ends or purposes in religion can it serve to promote? What
      edification can it give to an audience to dispute learnedly about a
      point of this nature?... I cannot but heartily approve what Mr
      Robert Blair, an eminent light of this church now in glory, said
      upon the question in hand. He told his people from the pulpit, that
      it was a very needless one. ’Tis just (said he,) as if you should
      ask me, when we are to walk, which foot should we lift first. If we
      should walk to purpose we must make use of both limbs; and so
      despatched the thorny question. I wish we may all imitate the wisdom
      of that great and good man. Is it not sufficient for us to declare
      that both are necessary, without determining the nice point of
      priority and posterority?” (Essay on Gospel and Legal Preaching, by
      a Minister of the Church of Scotland, pp. 22, 23. Edin. 1723.) “Mr.
      Robert Blair, born in Irvine, was first a Regent in the College of
      Glasgow, at which time he was licensed to preach the gospel, and was
      from the beginning zealous for truth and piety.” (Livingston’s
      Memorable Characteristics, p. 73) Mr. Blair died in 1666 in the 73d
      year of his age. (See Memoirs of the Life of Mr. Robert Blair, the
      first part written by himself, p. 128, Edin. 1754.) Mr. James
      Durham, Minister of the High Church of Glasgow, a short time before
      his death, intrusted to him the publication of his “Dying Man’s
      Testament to the Church of Scotland, or a Treatise concerning
      Scandal,” to which Mr. Blair wrote a preface. Principal Baillie
      gives this account of Blair, “Truly, I bear that man record that in
      all his English voyages, in many passages of the Assembly, private
      and public, he contributed as much to the pacifying of our
      differences as any, and much more than many.” Journals and Letters,
      vol. i. p. 306.—Ed.]

  289 [Or, sin itself.—Ed.]

  290 [That is, power of persuasion.—Ed.]

  291 [This is the word in the first Edition. It would seem to have been
      substituted for arrive.—Ed.]

  292 [That is, unless you please.—Ed.]

  293 [A proverb, which signifies that conscience does not deceive, and
      that its testimony is as overwhelming as that of a thousand
      witnesses—Quintil Inst Orator lib. v. chap. xi.—Ed.]

  294 [That is, not to will.—Ed.]

  295 [See Note, page 96. Si vis cadem semper vella, vera oportet
      velis.—“If you are desirous to have always similar wishes, it is
      necessary that you should wish for things that are proper.” Senec.
      Epist. xcv.—Ed.]

  296 [That is, laid open or explained.—Ed.]

  297 [Dispone is a Scots law expression. It signifies to convey a right
      or property to another.—Ed.]

  298 See:

      Non bene conveniunt, nec in una sede morantur,
      Majestus et amor.

      Ovid. Met. lib. ii. v. 846.—Ed.]

  299 [The name Immanuel ונמע לא signifies, God with us. Immelanu ונא
      לאמע signifies, we with God.—Ed.]

  300 [The Goel (לאג), or nearest kinsman, was, by the Mosaic law,
      entitled not only to redeem a forfeited inheritance, but to avenge
      the blood of any of the family, by slaying the murderer, if he found
      him out of a city of refuge. He was therefore called the redeemer,
      or “avenger of blood,” Josh. xx. 3.—Ed.]

  301 [The word λυτρον denotes the price of redemption, or that which is
      given to purchase the freedom of those who are in a state of
      captivity. “Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered to but
      to minister, and to give his life a ransom (λυτρον) for many” (Matt.
      xx. 28, Mark x. 45). αντιλυτρον is but once used in the New
      Testament. Its gratification is a counter-price, or the ransom that
      is paid when the life or person of one is given for that of another. 5, 6. Vide Leigh’s Critica Sacra.—Ed.]

  302 [That is, proposed.—Ed.]

  303 [That is, however.—Ed.]

  304 [Verse 6.—Ed.]

  305 [That is, place it upon God or charge him with it.—Ed.]

  306 [That is, adorned itself.—Ed.]

  307 [Scottice for than.—Ed.]

  308 [There is some obscurity in this sentence. The sentiment that is
      expressed, however, seems to be this:—Much love to a particular
      object makes the act of seeking or praying for it to be loved
      more.—Ed.]

  309 [That is, an earnest (arrha Lat.).—Ed.]

  310 [Yule is a name that is still applied to Christmas, in the Northern
      parts of England as well as in Scotland. “This name was originally
      given to the great annual feast celebrated among the northern
      nations, at the time of the winter solstice in honour of the sun.
      Hence Odin was denominated Julvatter, or the Father of Yule.”
      (Jamieson’s Etymological Dictionary of the Scottish language.) “He
      praised God that he was born in such a time, as in the time of the
      light of the gospel—to such a place as to be king of such a kirk,
      the sincerest kirk of the world. The kirk of Geneva keep Pasch and
      Yule; what have they for them? They have no institution. As for
      our neighbour kirk in England their service is an evil sad mass in
      English, they want nothing of the mass but the liftings.” (Speech of
      King James VI, to the Central Assembly of the Church of Scotland, at
      Edinburgh, August 1590. Calderwood’s Hist. of the Ch. of Scot. p.
      206.) What is called the birch or “birk in Yule even’” was probably
      the Yule clog. On Christmas eve at no very remote period, the
      Yule clog, which was a large shapeless piece of wood, selected for
      the purpose, was dragged by a number of persons bearing in their
      hand large candles, and placed by them on the fire where it was to
      be burned in compliance with an ancient superstitious custom. Our
      author may refer to this practice or perhaps he had simply in view
      the old proverb, “He’s as bare as the birk at Yule.”—Henderson’s
      Scottish Proverbs, p. 47. Edin. 1832.—Ed.]

  311 [The records of the kirk session of the parish of Govan, during the
      incumbency of the author, after having been lost for many years,
      were fortunately recovered not long ago. These show the great
      strictness of the ecclesiastical discipline of those days. There
      were not fewer than twenty-two elders in the kirk session. Each of
      these had a ward or district assigned to him, of which it was his
      duty to take a particular superintendence. It was hardly possible,
      therefore, that any irregularity of which a parishioner was guilty
      could be concealed, and consequently, what is recorded in the
      register is to be regarded, not as a specimen, but as the gross
      amount of the immorality of the parish. Some may affect to ridicule
      the severe notice that was taken of particular instances of
      misconduct. But the cognizance that was taken of such things is a
      proof of the high tone of moral and religious feeling that prevailed
      at that time among the office bearers of the church. Individuals, we
      find, were brought before the kirk session, on account of family and
      domestic feuds, for quarrelling with their neighbours, for solitary
      instances of drunkenness, and of the use of profane language, for
      carrying water on the Lord’s day, for sleeping in church, for
      resorting to taverns on the Sabbath, for calumny, and for neglecting
      the education of their children, &c. They who were convicted of such
      offences, were sometimes rebuked in private by an elder, and at
      other times by the minister in the presence of the eldership. It was
      only in the case of graver offences, the number of which was
      comparatively small, that a reproof was administered in the presence
      of the congregation.—Ed.]

  312 [In the “Causes of the Lord’s Wrath against Scotland, agreed upon by
      the Commission of the General Assembly,” 1650, “Backsliding and
      defection from the covenants and our solemn vows and engagements,”
      is specified (p. 46) to be “one of the greatest and most
      comprehensive and provoking sins in the land.” Printed in the year
      1653.—Ed.]

  313 [This is the language of a man who did not use “at any time
      flattering words,” or utter to his people “smooth things.” From what
      he says here, however, and in some other sermons, and from
      corresponding evidence which might be adduced, we are forced to
      conclude that the well-known description which Kirkton has given of
      the state of religion in Scotland in those days, (Hist. of Ch. of
      Scot. pp. 48, 54, 64) must be too highly coloured. The presence of a
      large military force and a state of civil warfare could not but be
      prejudicial, in various ways, to the religion and morality of a
      country. I am perfectly aware that the authority of Lord Clarendon,
      Bishop Burnet, Milton, and others, may be brought forward to prove
      that the parliamentary soldiers were kept under the strictest
      discipline, and were remarkable for their grave deportment. But I
      know likewise that the characters of not a few of those soldiers are
      seriously affected by the offensive details of the ecclesiastical
      records of the parish with which Binning was connected.—Ed.]

  314 [See Note, p. 368.—Ed.]

  315 [Or together.—Ed.]

  316 [That is, explain.—Ed.]

  317 [Coldly or indifferently.—Ed.]

  318 [Languishing.—Ed.]

  319 [“Upon Sunday, the 27th of February [1642], a declaration was read
      out of the old town pulpit [Aberdeen] by our minister, Mr William
      Strahan, showing the state of the Protestants in Ireland, and how
      their wives and bairns were miserably banished, and forced to flee
      into the west parts of Scotland for refuge, and the land not able to
      sustain them. It was found expedient that ilk parish within the
      kingdom should receive a collection of ilk man’s charity for their
      help and support, whereupon was collected of this poor parish
      fourscore pounds.” (Spalding’s “History of the Troubles in
      Scotland,” vol. i. p. 34. Aberdeen, 1792.) “As a body, the
      presbyterians [in Ireland] suffered less by the ravages of the
      rebellion than any other class. The more influential of their
      ministers, and the principal part of their gentry, had previously
      retired to Scotland to escape the tyranny of Strafford and the
      severities of the bishops and were thus providentially preserved.”
      (Dr. Reid’s “History of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland,” vol. i,
      p. 339.) After the execution of Charles I, an oath called the
      Engagement, was framed by the English parliament, requiring all
      persons to be “faithful to the commonwealth of England as now
      established, without a king or house of lords.” The Irish ministers
      refused to take this oath. The republicans were irritated by this
      refusal, and by the loyalty of the ministers, who publicly preached
      against them. They therefore imprisoned some of the ministers, while
      others fled to the woods, and some to Scotland. At length, at a
      council of war held at Carrickfergus in March, 1651, a formal act of
      banishment from the kingdom was passed against them. “Those that
      staid in the country, though they could not exercise their ministry
      orderly as formerly, and though their stipends were sequestered, yet
      they, changing their apparel to the habit of countrymen, travelled
      in their own parishes frequently, and sometimes in other places,
      taking what opportunities they could to preach in the fields, or in
      barns and glens, and were seldom in their own houses. They persuaded
      the people to constancy in the received doctrines, in opposition to
      the wild heresies which were then spreading, and reminding them of
      their duty to their lawful magistrates, the king and parliament, in
      opposition to the usurption of the times, and in their public
      prayers always mentioning the lawful magistrate. This continued
      throughout the summer of 1651, at which time there was diligent
      search made anew for them. Some were again taken, others fled, and
      those who were taken were imprisoned first, for a time, in
      Carrickfergus, in lodgings where they quartered; and thereafter,
      Colonel Venables not gaining any ground upon them, they were sent to
      Scotland.” Adair’s MS. apud Dr. Reid’s Hist. vol. ii. p. 246-248.
      See also a narrative of the sufferings of the Irish Presbyterians,
      for their religion and loyalty, in the “Sample of Jet-Black
      Calumny,” p. 214.—Ed.]

  320 [What is perhaps meant is, it swelleth much.—Ed.]

  321 [That is, that can lay claim to the favour of his Saviour even when
      his Saviour turns away his face from him.—Ed.]

  322 [What is here said would seem to fix the date of this sermon. It
      appears to have been preached before the battle of Dunbar.—Ed.]

  323 [That is, strongly.—Ed.]

  324 [That is, his utmost.—Ed.]

  325 [It is evident from this, and similar references to recent events,
      that the Case of Conscience must have been written in the early part
      of the year 1651. The proceedings of the commission of the General
      Assembly, from July 1650 to July 1661, fill a large MS volume of
      more than 400 pages. These proceedings have never been printed, with
      the exception of certain detached papers, which are found engrossed
      in the controversial pamphlets and journals of the times.—Peterkin’s
      “Records of the Kirk of Scotland,” p. 592.—Ed.]

  326 [“The Gen. Assembly itself at Edinburgh, in July thereafter, did,
      upon the 19 of that moneth, publish a Declaration, in which they
      give warning concerning Malignants thus:—‘We exhort all those who
      are in publick trust in ye comitee of Estates, or otherwise, not
      only to take good head of their private walking that it be suitable
      to the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and of their families and followers,
      that they bee void of offence, but also be straight in the cause and
      covenant, and not to seek themselves, nor befriend any who have been
      enemies to the Lord’s work, self-seeking, and conniving at, and
      complying with, and pleading for Malignants, having been publick
      sins that have been often complained of; and we wish to God yr were
      no cause to complain of these things still, notwithstanding of the
      solemne confession of them, and ingadging against them. God forbid
      that any mocke the Lord. He is a severe avenger of all such things,
      and there is the more reason at this time not to own Malignants,
      because it is ordinary with men so to be taken with the sense of the
      dangers such is before them as not to look back to that which is
      behind hem. There may be inclinations in some to employ these men,
      and make use of them, that we may be strengthened in this and in our
      neighbour land, but God hath hitherto cursed all such counsels, and
      blasted such resolutions, and if we shall again fall into this sin,
      as our guilt shal be so much the greater by reasone of many promises
      and ingadgments to the contrair, so we may expect ane heavier
      judgment from the Lord upon it. Let us keep the Lord’s way, and
      though we be few and weake, the Lord shall be with us, and make us
      to prosper and prevail. They are not fit for the work of God, and
      for the glorious dispensations of his more than ordinary works of
      power and providence in these times, who cannot beleive nor act any
      thing beyonde what sense and reasone can make clear unto them from
      the beginning unto ye end of their undertakings. Former experiences
      and present straits call upon us that we should act and follow our
      deutie in such a way as may magnify the Lord, and make it known to
      others that we may live by Faith.’—‘The Waters of Sihor,’ or the
      Lands Defectione, By Mr. James Guthrie, Minister of Stirling,”
      Wodrow MSS vol. xvii. p. 41, in Bib. Ad.—Ed.]

  327 [“At Stirlinge, the 12 of Septem. 1650. A shorte declaration and
      warninge to all the congregations of the Kirk of Scotland, from the
      commissioners of the General Assembly.

      “Albeit the Lord quhosse judgments are unsearchable, and quhosse
      wayes past finding out, has brought the land werey low wnder the
      hand of ane prewaillinge enemey, yet must we not forbeare to declair
      the mynd of God, nor vthers refusse to hearken thereto. It wer
      superfluous to give answer to the maney calumnies and reproches that
      are blazed abroad, for albeit in every thing we cannot justify the
      conducte of the armey, yet we hold it our deutie to desyre every one
      not to beleive groundless reports, bot rather to eye the Lord, and
      looke vpe to the hand that smytts them. And therfor, in the first
      place, we exhort and warne all the inhabitants of the land, to
      searche out ther iniquities, and to be deeplie humbled before the
      Lord, that he may turn away his wraith from us. The Lord hath
      wounded us and chasteissed us sore, wiche sayes that our iniquities
      are muche, and that our sins are increessed. It concerneth the King
      to mourne for all the grivous provocations of his father’s housse,
      and for all his auen guiltiness, and to consider if he hes come to
      the covenant, and joined himselve to the Lord, upone politicke
      interests, for gaining a croune to himselve rather then to advance
      religione and righteousness, that it is iniquitie quhilk God will
      not forgett excepte it be speedilie repented offe. It concerns our
      nobles and judges to consider wither ther carriadge in publicke
      matters be straight and equall, or rather savoring of seeking
      themselves and the thinges of this worlde, and how they walke in
      ther families, and in ther privat conversations. There is in maney a
      grate deall of perversenes and incorrigiblenes in regard of
      forsaking some and performing some deuties, notwithstanding publecke
      confessions and engagements, and this cannot bot heighlie provock
      the Lord. And it concerneth the officers of the armey, especially
      thesse quho are cheiffe among them, to weight weell quhat the Lord
      hes against them, and to repent of ther diffidence and carnall way
      of acting and undervaluing of God’s people. And ministers have also
      neid to searche themselves concerning ther faithfullness to be
      sound, for wiche God is angrie, doutles even amongest thesse is
      muche negligence. Albeit the Lord hes suffred that armey of
      perfideous and blasphemous sectaries to prevaill. Yet God forbid
      that the land should complay with him, quhatever may be the
      plauseable and faire carriage of some of that enimey, yet doubtless
      there is ane levin of error and hypocrassy amongest them wich all
      the lovers of treuth wold decern and avoyd. As the Lord hes trayed
      the stability and integritie of his people in the land heirtofore,
      by the prevailing of malignants, so doeth he now tray them by the
      prevailing of sectaries, and wee trust they will thinke it ther
      deutie and commendatione to prove staidfast against them als weill
      as the other.

      “3. Nather wold men be lesse cairfull and active to opposse the
      enimey, then they have beine in opposeing malignants heirtofor, our
      religione, lives, liberties and estaits, are als muche in hazard now
      as ever, all the ordinances of Jesus Christ in the land are in
      danger, and the foundatione lyke to be overturnid by thesse men quho
      are oblidged, by the band of the covenant, to mantiene all thesse
      and it wer a grate guiltines to ly doune and complay, and crutche
      under the burden of the strange impositions that they will lay upon
      us, and as men without head, to suffer our land to be brought in
      bondage and ourselves to be robbed of all thesse things quhilk are
      most precious and deire to us. If wee should doe so, the Lord wold
      be angrie with us, and our posterity could not bot curss us.

      “4. We would not think that all danger from the malignants is now
      gone, seeing that ther is a grate maney suche in the land, quho
      still retein ther former principales, therfor we wolde, with als
      muche watchfullnes and tendernes now as ever, avoyde ther snars, and
      beware of complayance and conjunctione with them, and take head,
      that under a pretence of doing for the king and kingdome they gett
      not power and strenth unto ther handes, for advanceing and
      promoveing ther old malignant desseinges. Doubtles our saftie is in
      holding fast our former principales, and keeping a straighte faithe,
      without declyning to the right hand ore to the lefte.

      “5. It concernes all the inhabitants of the land to bewarre of
      murmuring and complaning against God’s dispensations, and
      questioning the treuthe and goodnes of our causse or quarreling with
      God, or blaming or casting off the covenant, becausse of aney thing
      that hath befallin them, that wer a grate iniquitie not to be
      pardoned. Lett us beare the indignatione of the Lord patientlie,
      becausse wee have sinned against him, untill he plead our causse and
      execut judgment for us, he will bring us fourthe to the light, and
      we shall behold his righteousnes.”—Sir James Balfour’s Annales, vol.
      iv. pp. 98-102.—Ed.]

  328 [“Causes of a soleme publicke humiliatione upone the defait of the
      army, to be keepit throughout all the congregations of the Kirk of
      Scotland.

      “Albeit soleme publicke humiliations hes beine muche slighted, and
      gone about in a formall way by maney in this land, so that it is not
      one of the least of our provocations that we have drawn neire to God
      with our mouthes and keepit our heartes fare from him, for wich the
      Lord hath turned the wisdome of the wysse unto foollishnes, and the
      strenthe of the strong men unto weaknes, yet seing it is a dutie
      that hath oftin provin comfortable to uswards, God doeth new call us
      in a speciall way by a singular peice of dispensatione, and knowing
      that all quho are acquainted with God in the land will make
      conscience of it, wee conceave it expedient that the quhole land be
      humbled for the causses following.

      “1. The continued ignorance and profanitie of the bodie of the land,
      and the obstinacey and incorrigiblenes of maney, notwithstanding of
      all the caires that God hath takin upon us by his word, and by his
      workes of mercy and judgement, to teache us in the knowledge of his
      name, and to refraine us from the eivell of our wayes.

      “2. The manifest provocations of the kinges housse wiche we feare
      are not throughlie repented off, nor forsaken by him to this day,
      togidder with the crooked and precipitant wayes that wer takin by
      sundrie of our statesmen for caring the trettey with the king.

      “3. The bringing home with the king a grate maney malignants, and
      indevoring to keepe some of them about him, and maney of them in the
      kingdome, notwithstanding of publicke resolutions to the contrarey.

      “4. The not purging of the kinges familie from malignant and profane
      men, and the constituting of the samen of weill affected and godlie
      persons, albeit it hathe beine oftin pressed upone the parliament
      and comittee of Estaits, undertaking and promessed to be performed
      by them.

      “5. The leveing of a most malignant and profaine guard of horsse to
      be aboute the king, quho having beine sent for to be purgit aboute 2
      dayes before the defaite, were suffred to be and feight in our
      armey.

      “6. The exceiding grate slaknes of maney and aversnes and
      untowardnes of some in the cheiffe judicatories of the kingdome and
      in the armey, in guid motione and publick deuties, especially in
      thesse thinges that concerne the purging of judicatories and the
      armey from malignant and scandalous persons, and filling all places
      of powre and trust with men of knowen integritie and trust, and of a
      blamles and Christiane conversatione, togider with grate
      inclinations to keepe and bring in malignants to the judicatories
      and to the armey, as if the land could not be gydit and defendit
      without thesse, and grate repyning and craying out against all that
      is done to the contrarie, and studding to make the same ineffectual.

      “7. The exceiding grate diffidence of some of the cheiffe leaders of
      our armey, and others amongest us quho thought wee could not be
      saved bot by ane numerous armey, who quhen wee have gottin many
      thousands togider, wold not hazard to acte aney thing,
      notwithstanding that God offred faire opportunities and advantages,
      and fitted the spiritts of the souldiers for ther deutie, for
      carnall confidence that was in maney of the armey, to the dispysing
      of the enimey and promising victorie to themselves without eying of
      God.

      “8. The lousnes, insolencie and oppressione, of maney in the armey,
      and the litle or no caire that was taken by maney to preserve the
      corne, by wich it hath come to passe that verey much of the food of
      the poore people of the land have beine neidlesly destroyed, and
      quhile wee even remember this, we wishe that the prophanitie and
      oppressione of sundrie of oure officers and souldiers in Ingland,
      quhen we were fighting for the assistance of the parliament of that
      kingdome, may not be forgottin, because it was matter of stumbling
      in that land, so it is lyke it is ane of the causses of the sore
      indignatione now manifested against us by the hands of thesse men.

      “9. Our grate unthankfullnes for former mercies and deliverances,
      and even for maney tokins of the Lords favor and goodness towards
      our present armey quhile they wer togider, and the grate impatience
      of spirit that was to be seine in maney thesse weekes past, quhilk
      made them limitt the Lord, and to compleine and weerie of his
      delaying of ane deliverance.

      “10. The enving and eyeing of the kings intrest and quarrell by
      maney, without subordinatione to religione and the liberties and
      saveties of this kingdomes.

      “11. The carnall selve seiking and crooked way of sundrie in our
      judicatories and armies, quho make ther employments and places
      rather ane matter of intrest and gain and preferment to themselves
      then of advancing religione and righteousness in the land.

      “12. The not putting difference betwix thesse that fear God, and
      thesse that fear him not, for our services, our companie, our
      employments, bot acompting all men alike, maney times preferring
      thesse quho have nothing of God in them.

      “13. The exceiding grate negligence that is in grate ones, and maney
      others, in performing the deuties in ther families notwithstanding
      of our former soleme acknowledgment of the samen; as also, our
      neglecte of the deuties of mutuall edificatione, and grate
      unfruitfullness and barrennes that is to be seene amongest all sorts
      of persons; togider with the following of deutie with a grate deall
      of mixture of carnall affections and fleschly wisdome wich grives
      the Spirit of God, and takes away muche of the beutie of the Lords
      image from our judicatories.

      “As we wold be humbled for thesse thinges, so wold wee also intreat
      the Lord that he wold sanctifie this affliction to his people that
      they nather dispysse his chestisings, nor faint quhen they are
      rebukit of him, bot that they may beare his indignatione patiently,
      and cleive steadfestly to the treuthe, and the covenants, and the
      causse of God without yeilding to the power of the enimey, or
      receaving ther errors, or complaying ather with them on the one
      hand, ore malignants on the other, and that the Lord wold poure out
      of his Spirit upon the people, that ther spiritts may be raissed
      unto ther deutie, and that they may be filled and furnished of God
      with wisdome and resolutione to acte against their enimies for the
      honor of God, ther awen preservatione; and that the Lord wold not
      suffer them to be tempted above that whiche they are able to beare,
      bot that he wold break the yoke of ther oppressors from off ther
      neckes, and give them salvatione and deliverance; earnestly to
      intreat the Lord in private and in publicke that he wold preserve
      with us the ordinances of Jesus Christe, the kingdom, the kings
      maties persone, the ministrie, from the power of ther enimies, quho
      seekes the destruction of all.”—Id. pp. 102-107.—Ed.]

  329 [See the Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland, Anno 1650, xxx
      Novembris, vol. vi. p. 544.—Ed.]

  330 [“About this time the king’s head was filled by some unhappy men
      about him, especially Dr. Fraser [who was the king’s physician] and
      Henry Seymour, with many extreme fears. After the affront at Leith,
      they had raised suspicions in his mind, which, upon the defeat at
      Dunbar, were increased, but by the separate rising in the west
      brought near to the head of a design to break the treaty with him,
      and agree upon his expences with Cromwell. Upon these motions the
      malignants in the north stept in, and by the forenamed persons began
      a correspondence for the raising of the north for his present
      service, under the conduct of Middleton. So many noblemen were on
      this unhappy enterprise. Crawford was given out for its head and
      contriver, albeit be professed to me his opposition to it.
      Lauderdale knew of it; but he has said so far to me, that I believe
      him he opposed it to his power. However, the thing was so foolishly
      laid, and the king, by the counsels of those about him, was so
      various in giving order for that rising, sometimes commanding and
      then countermanding to rise, that all the party was put in a
      confusion; yet, by the information of these foresaid fools, the king
      being put in fear, that Lorn, going timely to bury a soldier, was
      drawing together his regiment to lay hands on him, contrary to his
      former resolutions, he took horse with some two or three, as if it
      had been to go a hawking, but crossed Tay, and stayed not till he
      came to Clowe in Angus. By the way he repented of the journey, and
      meeting with Lauderdale at Diddup, and Balcarras coming from Dundee
      by accident, was almost persuaded by them to return, yet by Diddup
      and Buchan he was kept in Clowe. But when he came to that
      miserably-accommodated house, and in place of the great promised
      forces, he saw nothing but a small company of Highlanders, he
      presently sent for Robert Montgomery, who was near with his
      regiment, and without more ado, did willingly return, exceedingly
      confounded and dejected for that ill-advised start. When it was
      first blazed abroad, it filled all good men with great grief, and to
      my own heart it brought one of the most sensible sorrows that in all
      nay life I had felt. Yet his quick return of his own accord, and his
      readiness to give all satisfaction for that failure, and his kind
      receiving by the committee of states, among whom he ever sat after
      his return (though never before) turned our grief suddenly into joy,
      his absence not lasting above two full days. Yet all men were not so
      soon satisfied.

      “Sundry of them who had been on the plot, fearing a discovery and
      punishment, flew to arms; Lewis Gordon, Ogilvie, Athol, and others,
      under Middleton’s command, putting out a number of fair pretexts for
      their rising. This might have destroyed all; yet, by God’s mercy,
      all was quickly quieted. D. Leslie, with all his horse, marched
      towards them; the king wrote earnestly to them to lay down. The
      committee of estates sent a fair act of indemnity, and so without
      more ado they went home.”—Baillie’s Letters, vol. ii. p. 356.

      Middleton, like the Marquis of Montrose, had been at one time a
      covenanter. After the Restoration, he was appointed to open the
      Scottish parliament, as his Majesty’s commissioner. But this did not
      prevent him from taking part in the debate, when the Act Rescissory,
      by which the presbyterian form of church polity was completely
      destroyed, was under consideration. Mr. David Dickson, along with
      some others, was delegated by the presbytery of Edinburgh to present
      to the Earl of Middleton a petition upon this subject. Middleton
      told Mr. Dickson “he was mistaken if he thought to terrify him with
      papers,—he was no coward.” Mr. Dickson dryly replied, “They knew
      well he was no coward ever since the bridge of Dee.” This was a
      skirmish which took place on the 19th of June, 1638, in which
      Middleton had displayed great zeal for the covenant, in opposition
      to Charles I. He took no notice of Mr. Dickson’s sarcastic
      remark.—Kirkton’s “History of the Church of Scotland,” p.
      118.—Ed.]

  331 [This was the “Acte of Pardon and Indemnitie, granted by the King
      and Comittee of Estaites to the Northerne Rebells, 26 October, 1650,
      and proclaimed at the mercat crosse of Perth, the 29th ditto, by
      Rosse Heraulde, A.L.” See Balfour’s Annales, vol. iv. p. 132.—Ed.]

  332 [He refers to “The Northerne Band and Othe of Engagement sent by
      Mideltone to L. Generall David Lesley, 26th of October, 1650.”
      Middleton and the other subscribers of the Bond promise and swear
      that they “shall manteine the trew religione, as it is established
      in Scotland; the covenant, league and covenant, the Kings Majesties
      persone, prerogative, gratnes and authoritie; the previllidges of
      parliament and freedome of the subjects.”—Id. p. 129.—Ed.]

  333 [See the Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland, ut supra.—Ed.]

  334 [The reader will find a very interesting account of the negociations
      at Breda, in “A Brief Historical Relation of the Life of Mr. John
      Livingston, Minister at Ancrum in Scotland, and last at Rotterdam in
      Holland,” who was one of the commissioners sent from Scotland to
      Breda (pp. 39-52. Glasgow, 1754). Dr. Cook, who quotes from the MS.,
      does not seem to have been aware that the Life of Livingston was
      ever printed. See his “History of the Church of Scotland,” vol. iii.
      p. 177, note.—Ed.]

  335 [“Immediately after the Scots army had marched in to England to the
      parliament’s assistance, did the King commissionate Montrose to
      raise a war in Scotland, by which he made account either to oblige
      the covenanters to recall their army out of England, or at least to
      make that nation smart for their boldness.  And this indeed he did
      effectually, for landing in the West Highlands, with a party of
      bloody Irish papists, who had been but a little before clashed in
      the cruel massacre of the innocent protestants he overran the whole
      country and beat the covenanters forces in six bloody conflicts. His
      war, I believe, was the most cruel in the world.” (Kirkton’s
      History, p. 43) “Montrose’s History is written in good Latin
      (supposed to be by Bishop Wishart), but with as little truth as most
      in the world.”  Id. p. 122.—Ed.]

  336 [Sir James Turner and Colonel Urrey were sent to the west of
      Scotland with their respective regiments, in 1648 to overawe and
      reduce to obedience, those who were averse to Hamilton’s Engagement.
      (Guthry’s Memoirs, p. 272 second edition). This service seems to
      have been perfectly congenial to the habits and taste of Sir James
      Turner, who appears, says Sir Walter Scott, (“Tales of a
      Grandfather,” vol. ii. p. 211. Edin. 1829), by the account he gives
      of himself in his Memoirs to have been an unscrupulous plunderer,
      and other authorities describe him as a fierce and dissolute
      character. On coming to Glasgow, the way he took, as he himself
      tells us with considerable gusto, “to make the hardest headed
      Covenanter in the toune to forsake the kirk and side with the
      Parliament,” was to quarter on suspected persons “two or three
      troopers and halfe a dozen musketeers.” In the same heartless strain
      he proceeds to say—“Finding my Glasgow men groune prettie tame, I
      tenderd them a short paper, which whoever signed I promisd, sould be
      presentlie easd of all quartering.” It was nothing but a submission
      to all orders of Parliament, agreeable to the Covenant. This paper
      was afterward, by some merrie men christend Turner’s Covenant.
      (Memoirs of his own Life and Times by Sir James Turner, pp. 53, 54
      printed at Edinburgh, by the Bannatyne Club, in 1829). As he was
      deprived of his rank by the Act of Classes in 1649, Sir James Turner
      was one of those pretended penitents, of whom according to Bishop
      Burnet, “all churches were full” after the passing of the Public
      Resolutions. (Memoires of the Duke of Hamilton, p. 425.) “Martii 12,
      1651. The qlk day was given in ane lettre from the comission of the
      kirk, the tenour whereof follows,—Reverende and loving brethrene,
      having received a petition how general adjutant James Turner,
      acknowledgeing verie humblie his sin, in ye great accession he had
      to that unlawful engadgement against England, and partcularlie his
      impious carriage in your citie by perturbing divine service, he
      seems to be verie sensible of his former miscarriage. We however
      still continue him under conference wt presbyteries hear. Bot if we
      shall find him in a condition to mak publik satisfaction, we desire
      to know of you, if he can com and staye there wt safetie, and
      without danger from the enemie, that he may satisfie in ye kirk of
      Glasgow, which we thinke the most convenient place for removing the
      scandal, that if he can be secur, he may be appoynted to com to you,
      and if not, we may tak such other course as shall be thought most
      convenient. We have no more to say, bot commending you in all
      thingis to ye Lordis direction, we remain your loving brethrene the
      comissioners of ye generall assemblie. Perth, 13 Feb 1651. Sic
      subscribitur, Mr. Robert Douglas, Moderator.” (Records of the
      Presbytery of Glasgow.)

      What Principal Baillie says of the oppressive conduct of Sir James
      Turner at Glasgow, during the time of the Engagement, is this—“Some
      regiments of horse and foot were sent to our town, with orders to
      quarter on no other but the magistrates, council, session, and their
      lovers. These orders were executed with rigour. On the most
      religious people of our town, huge burdens did fall. On some 10, on
      some 20, on others 30 soldiers and more, did quarter, who, beside
      meat and drink, wine, and good cheer, and whatever they called for,
      did exact cruelly their daily pay, and much more. In ten days, they
      cost a few honest but mean people, 40,000 lb., besides plundering of
      those whom necessity forced to flee from their houses.” Letters and
      Journals, vol. ii. p. 294.—Ed.]

  337 [“Stirling, 27 Sept, 1650: The comittee of Estaits considering the
      necessarey devine lying upone them in prosecutione of the acte of
      parliament and according to the frequent and serious remonstrances
      of the commissione of the churche for purging of the kings familey
      of all profaine, scandalous, malignant, and disaffected persons, and
      that it be constituted of such as are pious, and well affected to
      the cause and covenant qwho have not opposed the same by ther
      counsells and actions. And lykewayes considering the grate offence
      hes beine taken that the persons after nominated have not removed
      from courte nor departed out of the kingdome respectively, and
      having taken also into consideratione the report of the sub
      comittee, appoynted to think on the purging of the kings familey
      doth heirby therfor ordaine and command, The French Marques of
      Villaneuffe, The Earle of Cleveland, Lord Wentworthe his son,
      Viscount Grandeson, Lord Volmett, Lord Withringtone, Robert Long,
      Secretarey, Sr Edward Walker, Garter, Mr. Progers, Groome of His
      Maties Bed chamber, Master Lane, Master Marche, Colonell Darcey, Mr.
      Antoney Jacksone, Major Jacksone, Colonell Loes, Master Oder, Under
      Secretary Lord St. Paule, Sr Philipe Musgrave, Sr Faithful Fortskew,
      Sr Timothey Featherstons, L Coll Meutis, Collonell Carbraithe, to
      depart the courte within 24 houres, and to remove out of the
      kingdome within 20 dayes after intunatione, and Doctor Fraser and Sr
      George Melveill to withdraw from the court within 24 houres.” (Sir
      James Balfour’s Annales of Scotland, vol. iv. pp. 109, 110). Sir
      Edward Walker, whose name is included in the above list, says,
      “Money being ordered for my transportation, which I never got I was
      connived at for about three months, and therein had the opportunity
      to collect and write my observations of the Affairs as they then
      stood. Yet upon Friday the 4th of October, I was, by Sir James
      Balfour, lion king of arms, commanded from court, which I presently
      obeyed, and about a month after imbarqued for Holland, where I
      resided several years after.” (Historical Discourses. Contents
      folio. Lond. 1705.) The circumstances in which this zealous royalist
      was placed, together with his national prejudices, may account for
      his extreme credulity, in believing that the clergy of Scotland,
      after the battle of Dunbar, offered up such impious prayers as he
      has ascribed to them. (Id. p. 182) It was not to be expected that
      Mr. Hume would neglect the opportunity which was thus afforded him
      of covering with ridicule the Scottish covenanters. (See Hume’s
      Account of the Battle of Dunbar.) Rapin vindicates the conduct of
      the Estates, in inquiring the removal from about the person of the
      king, of some of his friends and attendants’ men he says, “whose
      principles and maxims were directly opposite to the interests of
      Scotland and who were the kingdoms reputed enemies.” Hist. of Eng.
      vol. ii. p. 581. Lond. 1833—Ed.]

  338 [“At the nod of a prince.”—Ed.]

  339 [That is, “He says, I say, he denies, I deny.” It is the parasite
      Gnatho that is referred to. Terence makes the shameless sycophant
      proclaim his own infamy—

      Quicquid dicunt, laudo, id rursum si negant, laudo id quoque
      Negat quis? Nego. Ait? Aio.—Eunuchi Act ii. Sc. ii.

      “Whatever they say, I applaud. If again they deny that, I applaud
      that too. Does any one deny a thing? I deny it. Does he affirm it? I
      affirm it.”—Ed.]

  340 [That is, the characteristics.—Ed.]

  341 [For an account of the origin, progress, and unsuccessful issue of
      Hamilton’s Engagement or the Unlawful Engagement, as it was also
      called, the reader may consult Stevenson’s History of the Church and
      State of Scotland, book iv. chapter x., Cook’s History of the Church
      of Scotland, vol. iii. p. 149.—Ed.]

  342 [Old MS.—Ed.]

  343 [“Pearth Novemb. 29, 1650—The Comrs. of the Gen. Assemb. considering
      the great sin and offence these men are guilty of, who have had
      accessione to the late Rebellione in ye north, therefore they doe
      appoint that all these persons that were actually in arms at the
      late rebellione, and all such as subscribed the Bond and
      Declaratione emited by them to be suspended from the communione till
      the nixt Gen. Assemb. to which there are hereby refered for further
      censure, and for all others that had any accessione by counsel or
      otherwise, to that rebellione, or to the King’s withdrawing from his
      Counsell, refers to Presbytries to try diligently in their severall
      bounds these persons and the degree of their guiltiness and to
      report the same, with the evidences and proofs thereof, to the nixt
      meeting of this Commissione.” A. Ker.—“The Waters of Sihor.” Wodrow
      MSS., vol. xvii. pp. 44-45.—Ed.]

  344 [James, Marquis of Montrose. After his forfeiture by the Scottish
      parliament he was usually styled in their Act and proclamations
      James Graham, and sometimes James Graham, late Earl of Montrose.
      Bishop Guthry says (Memoirs, p. 175) that it was considered a proof
      of malignancy to distinguish him and the Earl of Auly by their
      titles. In a letter to Principal Baillie, 19th March 1649, Mr. Spang
      mentions that he was admitted to an audience by the Prince of Orange
      at the Hague. Something was said by the Prince, which led Mr. Spang
      to suspect he alluded to Montrose. “I hoped,” says Mr. Spang, “his
      Highness did not mean of that man, whose apostasy, perjuries, and
      unheard of cruelty, had made him so odious, in all our country, that
      they could not hear of his name.” He presently gave me to understand
      he meant not him or any such, for by the comportment of our Scottish
      noblemen at court now, he perceives how odious James Graham must
      be at home, for they will not salute or speak to him, nay, not look
      where they think he is, and this I have observed with my own eyes.
      Baillie’s Letters and Journals, vol. ii. p. 323.—Ed.]

  345 [On the 14th of December 1650, an answer was returned to Parliament,
      “be the commissioners of the general assemblie to the quære, given
      in to thame be the estattis of parliament, anent the persones to be
      admitted to ryse in armes, and joyne with the forces of the
      kingdome, and in what capacitie, for defence thereoff aganes the
      armie of sectaries, &c.” (Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland, vol.
      vi. p. 554.) The Answer of the Commission, after a declaration that
      it is the duty of parliament to use all necessary and lawful means
      for the defence of the land, and a description of the enfeebled
      state of the kingdom, contains the following exposition of their
      views. “In this case of so great and evident necessity, we cannot be
      against the raising of all fencible persons in the land, and
      permitting them to fight against this enemy for defence of the
      kingdom, excepting such as are excommunicate, forfaulted,
      notoriously profane or flagitious, and such as have been from the
      beginning, and continue still, or are at this time, obstinate and
      professed enemies, and opposers of the Covenant and cause of God;
      and for the capacity of acting, that the Estates of Parliament ought
      to have, as we hope they will have special care, that in this so
      general concurrence of all the people of the kingdom, none be put in
      such trust or power as may be prejudicial to the cause of God, and
      that such Officers as are of known integrity and affection to the
      cause, and particularly such as have suffered in our former armies
      may be taken special notice of.”—“A True Representation of the Rise,
      &c. of the Present Division in the Church of Scotland,” pp. 10, 11.
      London, 1657. “The Answer of the Commission of the General Assemblie
      to the Quæree Propounded to them from the Parliament,” pp. 2, 3.
      Aberdeen, Printed by James Brown, 1651.—Ed.]

  346 [“Act of Leavie: At Perth, the twentie third day of December, one
      thousand six hundred and fiftie yeiris, the Kingis Majestie and
      Estaits of parliament, being verie sensibill of the dangerous and
      distressed conditione of this kingdome, and most desyrious,
      according to the law of God and nature, in discharge of there public
      trust, to use all lawful and necessarie means for the saiftie and
      defence of religione, his Majesties persone and royal authoritie,
      laws and liberties of the kingdome, aganis an armie of sectaries,
      who most unjustlie and perfidiouslie, contrarie to the solemne
      league and covenant and treaties, have invaded, and are by all actis
      of hostilitie destroying the same, Thairfore hes statute and
      ordained that all fensible men, within the sherrefdomes of Fyiff,
      and Kinross, Clakmanan, Stirling, Dumbartane, Argyll, Boott, Perth,
      Forfar, Kincardine, Aberdeine, Bamff, Murray, Nairne, Inverness,
      Ross, Sutherland, Cromartie, Caitnes, and Orknay, cum to an
      randevouze in the severall divisions of ilk schyre respective, to be
      set doun and appoyntit be the comitties of war in ilk schyre,
      according to the number of the regimentis efter specifit. The haill
      hertofore noblemen, gentlemen, and utheris to burt and landwartly
      frenteris, woodsetteris, and all other fensible men, betwixt
      thriescore and sixteine, with all there horses fitt for service, and
      their haill armes for horsemen and footmen (except such as are
      excommunicate, forfeited, notoriouslie profane or flagitious, and
      such as have beene from the beginning, and continew still, or are at
      this tyme, obstinat and professed enemies and opposeris of the
      covenant and caus of God). Out of the quhilk haill number of
      fensible persones, in ilk division, all such as are vigorous and
      able men for war are heirby appoynted to be drawin out, and put in
      Regimentis, as is efter specifit, with there best horses and arms,
      so many as are serviceable horses, and the rest on foot, with their
      best armes, twa part musquettis and third part pickis, and all with
      swords. The horsemen to be armed with pistollis, hulsteris or
      syidpistollis, and launces,” &c., &c.—“Acts of the Parliaments of
      Scotland,” vol. vi, pp. 560-562.—Ed.]

  347 [This disastrous attack was made by the forces in the west, from
      whom had proceeded, what was called the Western Remonstrance, which
      had been condemned both by the Committee of Estates, and the
      Commission of the church. (“Causes of the Lord’s Wrath in Scotland,”
      p. 60, printed in the year 1660). “Befoir this feight at Hammilton,
      Collonell Ker inquyred the judgement of his inferior officers the
      night befoir, quhat thai thocht of the caice of effaires, as they
      then stood, and schewed thame that he wold joyne with nane quho wes
      not for the Remonstrance, nor yit with those quho wold not declyne
      the Stait,—I meane the committee of Estait as it then stood.”
      (Nicol’s “Diary of Transactions in Scotland,” p. 37) The following
      letter from Cromwell describing the defeat at Hamilton, is
      interesting in itself as well as on account of the writer. “Sir, I
      have now sent you the results of some treaties amongst the enemy,
      which came to my hand this day. The Major General, and
      Commissary-Generall Whaley marched a few days ago towards Glasgow,
      and the enemy attempted his quarters in Hamilton, and entred the
      town, but by the blessing of God, by a very gracious hand of
      Providence, without the losse of 6 men, as I hear of, he beat them
      out, kild about 100, took also about the same number, amongst which
      are some prisoners of quality, and near 100 horse (as I am
      informed), the Major Gen. being in the chase of them, to whom also I
      have since sent the addition of a fresh party. Col. Kerre (as my
      messenger this night tells me) is taken, his Lieutenant-Col. and one
      that was sometimes Major to Collonel Straughan, and Keires Captain
      Lieutenant. The whole party is shattered, and give me leave to say
      it, if God had not brought them upon us, we might have marched 3000
      horse to death, and not have lighted on them, and truly it was a
      strange Providence brought them upon him. For I marched from
      Edenburgh on the north side of Cloid, appointed the Major-General to
      march from Peebles to Hamilton, on the south side of Cloid. I came
      thither by the time expected, tarried the remainder of the day, and
      untill neer 7 o’clock the next morning, apprehending the Major-Gen.
      would not come by reason of the waters. I being retreated, the enemy
      took encouragement, marched all that night, and came upon the
      Major-General’s quarters about two houres before day, where it
      pleased the Lord to order as you have heard.

      “The Major-Gen. and Commissary Gen. (as he sent me word) were still
      gone on in the prosecution of them, and saith, that except 150 horse
      in one body, he heares they are fled by 16 or 18 in a company, all
      the country over. Robin Montgomery was come out of Sterling, with 4
      or 5 regiments of horse and dragoons, but was put to a stand when he
      heard of the issue of this businesse. Straughan and some other
      officers had quitted some 3 weeks or a month before this businesse,
      so that Ker commanded this whole party in chief.

      “It is given out that the malignants will be all (almost) received
      and rise unanimously and expeditiously. I can assure you, that those
      that serve you here, find more satisfaction in having to deale with
      men of this stamp, then others, and it is our comfort that the Lord
      hath hitherto made it the matter of our prayers, and of our
      endeavours (if it might have been the will of God), to have had a
      Christian understanding between those that feare God in this land,
      and ourselves, and yet we hope it hath not been carryed on with a
      willing failing of our duty to those that trust us, and I am
      persuaded the Lord hath looked favourably upon our sincerity herein,
      and will still doo so, and upon you also whilst you make the
      interest of God’s people yours. Those religious people of Scotland,
      that fall in this cause, we cannot but pitty and mourne for them,
      and we pray that all good men may do so too. Indeed there is at this
      time a very great distraction, and mighty workings of God upon the
      hearts of divers, both ministers and people, much of it tending to
      the justification of your cause. And although some are as bitter and
      as bad as ever, making it their businesse to shuffle hypocritically
      with their consciences and the covenant, to make it lawfull to joyne
      with malignants, which now they do (as well as they might long
      before) having taken in the head of them, yet truly others are
      startled at it, and some have been constrained by the work of God
      upon their consciences, to make sad and solemn accusations of
      themselves, and lamentations in the face of their supream authority,
      charging themselves as guilty of the blood shed in this warre, by
      having a hand in the treaty at Breda, and by bringing the king in
      amongst them. This lately did a Lord of the Session, and withdrew,
      and lately Mr. James Leviston, a man as highly esteemed as any for
      piety and learning, who was a Commissioner for the Kirk at the said
      treaty, charged himselfe with the guilt of the blood of this war,
      before their assembly, and withdrew from them, and is retired to his
      own house. It will be very necessary to encourage victuallers to
      come to us, that you take off customes and excise from all things
      brought hither for the use of the army. I beg your prayers, and rest
      your humble servant, O. Cromwell. Edinburgh, 4 Dec. 1660.”—Sev.
      Proc. in Parl. Dec. 12 to 19, apud Cromwelliana, pp. 94, 95.—Ed.]

  348 [That is, “How much changed from that assembly which was formerly!”
      (Quantum mutatus ab illo Hectore, qui, &c. Virg. Æneid, lib. ii.
      ver. 274.)—Ed.]

  349 [“Ult. July, 1648. Post Meridian Sep. xxi. A Declaration of the
      General Assembly concerning the present dangers of Religion and
      especially the unlawful engagement in War, against the kingdom of
      England. Together with many necessary exhortations and directions
      to all the Members of the Kirk of Scotland.” Records of the Kirk of
      Scotland, pp. 498-505. Edited by A. Peterkin.—Ed.]

  350 [At a meeting of the Committee of Estates, on the 6th of January,
      1651,—“Rege Presente. The letter from the Presbytery of Stirling to
      the Commission of the Generall Assembly, still disclaiming the kings
      intereste, and the unity of all the subjects of the land to assist
      their countrey against the comon enimey, redd, with the Commission
      of the Generall Assemblies ansuer therto, redd lykwayes approvin and
      ordained to be published and printed.” (Balfour’s Annales, vol. iv.
      p. 235). The Commission of the Assembly complained, that the letter
      of the Ministers of the Presbytery of Stirling, which was printed at
      Edinburgh 165l, had prefixed to it “the false and odious title of A
      Remonstrance of the Presbtytery of Stirling against the present
      conjunction with the malignant partie.” (“Answer of the
      Commission,” &c. dated Perth, 6 Jan. 1651 p. 19. Printed at
      Aberdeen, 1651). What Binning now advances is in vindication of the
      Letter of the Presbytery of Stirling and in reply to the Answer of
      the Commission. Mr. James Guthrie, and Mr. David Bennet, Ministers
      at Stirling, were charged by the committee of Estates with training
      this Letter, and summoned to appear before them, at Perth, on the
      19th of February, 1651, to answer for their conduct.—“Acts of Parl.,
      vol. vi. p. 578.”—Ed.]

  351 [“And first, we shall desyre every one seriously to consider the
      case and condition wherein the kingdome is engaged and standeth at
      this tyme, that now we are not upon an engagement of invasive warre
      but upon necessary defence against a forraign enemy, who hath not
      only injustly invaded us, but also (through the holy permissive
      providence of God) slaine many of our brethren with the sword,
      subdued a great part of the land, is oppressing the people of God
      therein, and following his injust designes and intentions against
      the rest of the kingdome, that in this case, in the ordinary way of
      providence, according to which men must act, unlesse they would be
      guilty of tempting God, there is need of, and ought to be employed
      against the enemy, such a competency of power as is required in
      right and warrantable prudencie, and may be had, not being of itself
      sinful. This certainly is mans duety, whatever God, out of his
      soveraignity, hath done, or may doe in the case of want, or
      disproportion of meanes.”—Answer of the Commission, ut supra, p.
      6.—Ed.]

  352 [“In such parts of the kingdome, as are yet free from the oppression
      of the enemy, and so out of which any men can be raised, there is
      not a possibility to get such a competencie of power, unlesse there
      be a more generall calling foorth of the body of the people than
      hath been before, this as it is most certain in itselfe, so it is
      most apparent, and evident unto all, that doe understand these parts
      of the kingdome. And whereas faithfull and honest men in the State,
      well acquainted with the severall shares of that part of the
      kingdome, have publickly declared that when all shall be brought
      together, that can be called foorth of these parts, according to
      publick resolution, there will scarce be a competent power against
      the power of the enemy, we cannot but much wonder, if any, not so
      acquainted therewith, shall hold the contrary, and not give credit
      to the declaration of honest and faithfull men, especially in
      authority, the matter being such, as in the immediate knowledge
      thereof dependeth on sense, and, as to those that have not that
      knowledge, pertaineth to humane faith, which giveth credit to the
      testimony testium idoneorum of competent witnesses such as these
      are whom we have designed.”—Id. pp. 6, 7.—Ed.]

  353 [“We need say no more unlesse there were some show of proofe to the
      contrary. Yet we shall say somewhat particularly to one place that
      which is said in the case of Amaziah’s associating with and taking
      to him the Israelits for help in his just defence, (2 Chron. xxv. 7:
      ‘O king let not the army of Israel goe with thee for the Lord is not
      with Israel even with all the house of Ephraim,’) as being mainly
      urged and as it seems most to stick with some in the present
      businesse to which sundry things may be answered, which clear the
      present businesse from the force thereof. 1. The Israelits were
      idolaters, and forreiners not so in our case, in either respect. But
      it is alledged that the reason why Amaziah is disswaded from taking
      their assistance is because God was not with them, and therefore the
      same reason having place in manie of these, whom the present
      resolution comprehendeth, the disswasion hath the same force against
      them. Therefore 2. God’s not being with them may be either conceived
      and understood, in regard of the estate of grace and reconciliation
      with God but how-so ever that with many of them God was not in this
      regard, yet the reason cannot be alledged in this sense because then
      it would follow by the argument, that we might not take the help of
      any man out of the estate of grace, for our just and necessary
      defence, which none will admit, or it may be understood of God’s
      assistance and prospering providence simply. But neither can it be
      taken thus, because it is certain and clear that God was often with
      them in this sense in their own cause and quarrells. Therefore it
      must needs be conceived, in regard of their profession, and
      religion, which was corrupt and idolatrous. Now the reason thus
      understood hath not place in our businesse. 3. Yet doe we not find
      that Amaziah is commanded to exclude any of the subjects of his own
      kingdom, from acting in that defence, or reproved for not doing of
      it notwithstanding many of them no doubt were naughty and corrupt in
      their way, 2 Kings xiv.”—Answer of the Commission, p. 12.—Ed.]

  354 [That is, “chiefly.” The strict signification of ut plurimum is,
      as much as possible.—Ed.]

  355 [“At the bar of conscience.”—Ed.]

  356 [“Doeth our mentioning onlie the kingdome in that resolution, import
      a separation of the kingdome, and the cause in the quarrell against
      our enemie? Or what logick can draw out such a consequence out of
      it? Wee do think that the kingdome being in danger by this enemie,
      the cause also is in danger, and the defending of the kingdome will
      be the defending of the cause also. And we trust no instruments
      shall bee employed for the defence of the kingdom to the prejudice
      of the cause.”—Answer of the Commission, ut supra, p. 19.—Ed.]

  357 [“In point of fact.”—Ed.]

  358 [“On that very account.”—Ed.]

  359 [Bishop Hall quaintly remarks, that “No devil is so dangerous as the
      religious devil.” “Suppose the ends of this Engagement to be good,
      (which they are not,) yet the meanes and ways of prosecution are
      unlawful, because there is not an equall avoiding of rocks on both
      hands, but a joyning with malignants to suppresse sectaries, a
      joyning hands with a black devill to beat a white devill. They are
      bad physicians who would so cure one disease as to breed another as
      evil or worse.” (“A Declaration of the Gen. Assembly concerning the
      present dangers of Religion.” Rec. of the Kirk of Scotland, p. 501.)
      In the year 1649 the Scottish parliament passed an “Act against
      Consulters with Devils and Familiar Spirits,” &c. (Acts of the Parl.
      of Scot. vol. vi. p. 359.) It was supposed that the power of some of
      these was employed in particular instances for the benefit of
      mankind. They were therefore distinguished from the others in the
      same way that white witches or persons who used charms and
      incantations for curing diseases, &c. were distinguished, but not in
      the eye of the law, from black witches, or those who practised their
      art for the purposes of mischief. (Whitelock’s “Memorials,” p. 550.
      See also Sir Walter Scott’s “Tales of a Grandfather,” vol. ii. p.
      117.) If we look to the strange confessions of many of the
      unfortunate creatures who were condemned to suffer death for
      witchcraft in those days, without adverting to the cruel means that
      were often resorted to with a view to extort from them such
      confessions, the credulity of the age will not appear to have been
      so extraordinary as it has been represented. It is impossible not to
      admire the singular discretion of Dr. Grey, Rector of Houghton
      Conquest when speaking on this subject: “Nothing,” says he, “more
      plainly discovers the iniquity of those times than the great numbers
      of people executed in England and Scotland for witches, if they
      were guilty, or the barbarous superstition of the times, if they
      were innocent, which is the more probable.”—“Impartial Examination
      of the Fourth Volume of Mr. Daniel Neal’s History of the Puritans,”
      p. 96, Lond. 1739.—Ed.]

  360 [That is, openly persisting. See “The Answer of the Commission to
      the Presbytery of Stirling,” p. 11.—Ed.]

  361 [See “The Nullity of the Pretended Assembly at Saint Andrews and
      Dundee,” &c., p. 312. Printed in the year 1652. As many had been
      under age when the Solemn League and Covenant was first sworn the
      Commission of the General Assembly ordained it to be renewed by
      their Act, October 6, 1648, joining to it the “Solemn Acknowledgment
      of Public sins and Breaches of the Covenant, and a Solemn Engagement
      to all the Duties contained therein.”—Ed.]

  362 [“We desire it may be  remembered that in the beginning of these
      troubles, anno 1638, when as there were then standing laws in this
      kingdom, which are not yet repealed to this day, discharging all
      subjects from rysing in armes, without the kings expresse warrant
      and command, yet the subjects of this kingdome perceiving themselves
      in danger to be destroyed by forraign invasion, did fynd these lawes
      no wayes to bynd up their hands from taking armes, for their just
      defence and selfe preservation,—these lawes, in the intention of the
      lawgiver, being made for the preservation of the kingdom and not for
      the destruction of it.—” Answer of the Commission, pp. 13,
      14.—Ed.]

  363 [See “The Waters of Sihor, or the Lands Defectione,” Wodrow MSS.
      vol. xvii. pp. 39-41, in Bib. Ad.  Peterkin’s “Rec. of the Kirk of
      Scotland,” pp. 619-620.—Ed.]

  364 [See Note, page 96.—Ed.]

  365 [That is, “every where and at all times like himself and the
      same.”—Ed.]

  366 [We learn from Principal Baillie, (“Letters and Journals,” vol. ii.
      p. 363,) that Binning had identified himself with the Association of
      the West, which was required to dissolve itself, by an Act of the
      Scottish parliament, passed 28th Decem., 1650.—Ed.]

  367 [Or, general officers.—Ed.]

  368 [The first or principal proposition in the preceding
      syllogism.—Ed.]

  369 [(Minor probatur,) that is, the second proposition in the
      preceding syllogism.  It will be perceived that the arguments of the
      author are constructed according to the rules of the Aristotelian
      logic.  A familiar acquaintance with this mode of reasoning
      continued to be cultivated, at this time, by all who wished to excel
      in public disputations (Professor Jardine’s “Outlines of
      Philosophical Education in the University of Glasgow,” p. 12. Glas.
      1825).  In the Westminster Assembly, the different speakers often
      presented their opinions under the form of syllogisms, which were
      impugned and defended by employing the usual terms and technical
      formalities of the dialectic art.—See Lightfoot’s “Journal of the
      Proceedings of the Assembly of Divines.” Works, vol. xiii. pp. 123,
      157, 203-205, &c.—Ed.]

  370 [Aiming at.—Ed.]

  371 [Mr. Robert Ramsay, Principal of the University, reminded the
      Presbytery of Glasgow at their first meeting in June, 1651, “that
      Mr. Hew Binnen had expresslie protested that it was not lawfull for
      us to pray for ye succeese of the armie, as it was constitute, and
      becaus of those who now have power in the same. And farther, the
      said Mr. Hew Binnen, when notice was taken of these words repeated
      them over and over agane, and avowed, he wold pray for a blessing to
      them, yt is, that yet might be converted, but, that he could not
      pray for success to them as yet are now constitute.”—“Records of the
      Presbytery of Glasgow.”—Ed.]

  372 [Or shudder.—Ed.]

  373 [For the Instructions given by the Scottish parliament to the
      Commissioners who went to Breda see “Acts of the Parliament of
      Scotland,” vol. vi. pp. 513, 514. A copy of the Treaty itself agreed
      upon by his Majesty Charles II and the Scottish Commissioners and
      afterwards ratified by parliament, will be found in Thurloe’s State
      Papers, vol. i. pp. 147, 148.—Ed.]

  374 [That is, “who, because they are wise, are ignorant of that which
      they know.” (Tu pol, si sapis quod scis, nescis. Terent Eun. iv. 4,
      54.)—Ed.]

  375 [That is, lively or distinct characters.—Ed.]

  376 [“A fisherman is made wise by a bite.” A Greek proverb, the original
      of this (ὁ ἁλσευς πληγες νους φυσες) has been preserved in a
      fragment of Sophocles, Erasmi Adagiorum Chil. Quat. p. 41.  Coloniæ
      1612. Scholiastes Græci In Sophoc. Tom. iii. p. 602. Argentorati
      1788.—Ed.]

  377 [“Another consequence of this defeat [at Dunbar] was, that every one
      blamed the other, the one side for purging out too many who might
      have been of service against the enemy, and these again blamed their
      opposites for being too remiss, and not well enough purged.”—Memoirs
      of the Life of the Rev. Robert Blair, p. 113. Edin. 1755.—Ed.]

  378 [Answer of the Commission, ut supra, p. 8.—Ed.]

  379 [P. 178 Edin. 1649.—Ed.]

  380 [Or as a general principle.—Ed.]

  381 [In opposition to what is here affirmed it is stated in the pamphlet
      entitled, “A True Representation of the Present Division in the
      Church of Scotland,” (p. 15.) that the Scottish Reformers did not
      look upon their conjunction with the Duke of Chatelherault and his
      followers, “as a cause of that sad stroak, as some would make the
      world believe, from Mr. Knoxes Sermon at Sterlin. For in the heads
      of that Sermon, printed in the History of the Church of Scotland, p.
      217 Edit. Edinburgh, 1644, in 4to, there is no mention of any such
      thing but only of their carnal confidence, that possibly they had
      not sincerely repented of their former opposition, and that they who
      were late come in were made to feel in their own hearts, how bitter
      a cup they had made others to drink before them. Nor doth he (as our
      Brethren’s tenets now lead them) presse them to purge out such as
      were lately admitted, but doth only presse repentance upon all of
      them.”—Dr. M’Crie presents his readers with an analysis of this
      sermon of the “great Apostle of the Scots,” as he was called by
      Beza.—See “Life of Knox,” pp. 192, 193, sixth edit.—Ed.]

  382 [See page 495 of this edition.—Ed.]

  383 [“The safety of the people” is “the highest law.”—Ed.]

  384 [“The very heathens had a notion of the unlawfulnesse of
      confederacies with wicked men. For as Victorinus Strigelius on 2
      Chron. 25, noteth out of Æschylus his tragedy, intituled Seven to
      Thebe, Amphiaraus a wise vertuous man was therefore swallowed up in
      the earth, with seven men, and seven horses, because he had associat
      himself with Tydeus, Capaneus and other impious commanders marching
      to the siege of Thebe.” (“Gillespie’s Miscel. Quest.,” p. 178.)
      Æschylus makes Eteocles give the following description of the
      character of Amphiaraus, and foretell his destiny.—(“Septem cont
      Thebas,” ver. 597.)

          “Nothing worse
      In whate’er cause than impious fellowship,
      Nothing of good is reap’d   for when the field
      Is sown with wrong the ripened fruit is death
          So this seer
      Of temper’d wisdom, of unsullied honour,
      Just, good, and pious, and a mighty prophet,
      In despite to his better judgment join’d
      With men of impious daring, bent to tread
      The long, irremeable way, with them
      Shall, if high Jove assist us, be dragg’d down
      To joint perdition.”—Potter.

      Regarded simply as a poetical fiction, the account which Statius has
      given of the fate of Amphiaraus is particularly striking and
      beautiful—(Thebald. lib. vii. ver. 815-823)—Ed.]

  385 [“A Hypothetical Proposition is one which asserts not absolutely,
      but under an hypothesis indicated by a conjunction. An hypothetical
      syllogism is one on which the reasoning depends on such a
      proposition.”—Whately’s “Elements of Logic,” p. 388.—Ed.]

  386 [“For he who gives life gives the things which are necessary to
      life.”—Cic. De Offic. lib. cap. 4.—Ed.]

  387 [The MS. in my possession which will be afterwards described has no
      part of this third answer. In place of it I find the following
      passage: “And though there had been disproportion of numbers betwixt
      us and the enemy, yet we cannot but still say, it had been a way
      much better beseeming the people of God, and in which there should
      have been much more peace and consort, to have had to do our duty
      with such a disproportion, than to have taken in the malignant party
      for making it up.”—Ed.]

  388 [Than with.—Ed.]

  389 [Dirge, or some such word is wanting here.—Ed.]

  390 [That is, put them in mind.—Ed.]

  391 [The remaining part of the Section is not contained in either of the
      two preceding editions of the “Case of Conscience,” but is taken
      from a MS. in the handwriting of the period with the use of which I
      have been favoured by my friend David Laing, Esq., Secretary to the
      Bannatyne Club. This MS. terminates with Section IV.—Ed.]

  392 [Mr. George Gillespie, who was the son of Mr. John Gillespie,
      Minister of Kirkaldy, was at this time one of the Ministers of
      Edinburgh, but he had gone to Kirkaldy for the benefit of his
      health. He was one of the Commissioners from the Church of Scotland,
      to the Westminster Assembly. In his letters from London, Principal
      Baillie, who was also one of the Scottish Commissioners, speaks of
      his youthful colleague in terms of high admiration. See also, pp. 407, 419, 431.)
      Gillespie’s “Treatise of Miscellany Questions,” which was published
      after his death, in 1649, contains a chapter entitled, “Another most
      useful Case of Conscience discussed and resolved, concerning
      associations and confederacies with idolaters, infidels, heretics,
      or any other known enemies of truth and godliness” (pp. 169-193.)
      This, it will be observed is, with very little variation, the title
      of the Tractate of Binning. It is probable, that they who first
      undertook the publication of Binning’s MS. were led to adopt this
      title from the similarity of the views, as well as the identity of
      the subjects of the two authors. When the Commission of the church
      met at Perth, in December, 1650, for the purpose of considering the
      query of the parliament as to the persons who ought, or ought not,
      in present circumstances to be employed, in the defence of the
      country,—it was not likely that the published opinions of Gillespie
      upon such a subject would be overlooked. But says Baillie, when
      giving an account of this meeting, “The question was alleged to be
      altered from that which Mr. Gillespie writes of.”—“Letters and
      Journals,” vol. ii. p. 365.—Ed.]

  393 [The name of “M. F. Carmichael” is attached to a warrant, which is
      dated Sept. 1, 1651, and bears to be subscribed by certain
      commissioners of the church, authorizing George Ogilvy of Harras, to
      deliver up to Lord Balcarres, the Registers of the Kirk that were in
      his house (Reg. of Deeds, 6 March, 1701. Dr. M’Crie’s Mem. of Veitch
      and Brysson, Append. p. 525.) There can be little doubt that these
      were the original records of the church, which were produced and
      identified at the meeting of the General Assembly at Glasgow, in the
      year 1638. (Id. p. 497. “Rec. of the Kirk,” vol. l. pp. 22-24,
      Edited by A. Peterkin.) It is boldly asserted by Gordon, parson of
      Rothiemay, that the old authentic records of the Assemblies were at
      that time in the hands of Archbishop Spottiswood, who had carried
      them with him, he says, to London, though he more cautiously adds,
      in a nota, “It is very uncertaine if the registers presented wer
      the principalls, or if only copyes.” (“History of Scots Affairs,”
      vol. i. pp. 146, 147. Aberdeen. Printed for the Spalding Club,
      1841.) Keith tells us in what way these records afterwards came into
      the possession of Mr. Archibald Campbell, a Scottish non-juring
      clergyman residing in London, by whom they were most unjustifiably
      detained from the Church after the Revolution, and subsequently
      gifted to Sion College, the governors of which being expressly
      restricted from permitting them to pass out of their custody.
      (“Hist. of the Aff. of Church and State in Scot.,” p. 497.) After
      some delay on the part of the governors, the long concealed records,
      bound up in three volumes, and embracing the whole period between
      1560 and 1616, were given up by them for inspection, in the year
      1834, to the Select Committee of the House of Commons on Church
      Patronage. (“Minutes of Evidence,” pp. 126, 355, 374.) Dr. Lee, one
      of the witnesses before the Committee, declared, after examining
      them, he was quite certain that they were “authentic records.” (Id.
      p. 450). The loss of such invaluable archives, soon after this,
      which now appears to be placed beyond all doubt, in consequence of
      the destruction of the House of Commons by fire, is much to be
      deplored.—Ed.]

  394 [At the Restoration, Mr. Moncrieff was ejected from his parish, for
      the part he had acted in framing or sanctioning the “Remonstrance,”
      and the “Causes of the Lord’s wrath,” which was engenuously
      confessed by him (“Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland,” vol. vii.
      p. 367.) Wodrow has collected various particulars regarding the
      life, character, and subsequent sufferings, for conscience’ sake, of
      this pious and useful minister. (“Hist. of the Suff. of the Ch. of
      Scot.”, vol. i. pp. 197-200.) As he was persecuted, during the
      Usurpation, for persisting in praying publicly for the king, he had
      thus the singular misfortune of being punished both for his loyalty
      and his supposed disloyalty. Mr. Moncrieff has had a niche assigned
      to him by Howie among the Scots Worthies. (pp. 411-415. Dumfries,
      1835.) Mr. James Guthrie, Minister at Stirling, who was imprisoned
      at the same time with his friend, Mr. Moncrieff, and afterwards
      executed, was accused at his trial of compiling “the Remonstrance.”
      This he denied, affirming he could prove, by hundreds of witnesses,
      that he was at Stirling at the time, many miles distant.—See his
      Defences, “Acts of the Parl. of Scot.,” vol. vii. Append. p.
      37.—Ed.]

  395 [The parliament of Scotland passed the Act of Classes on the 23d
      of January, 1649. It was entitled an Act “for purging the
      Judicatories, and other places of Public trust.” Those whom it
      declared to be incapable of sitting in parliament, or of holding any
      civil or military appointment, were divided into four classes. The
      disqualification of such as, on account of their supposed greater
      criminality, were placed in the first class, was to continue for
      life, that of the second class for ten years; that of the third
      class for five years; and that of the fourth class for one year
      only, provided they gave previously sufficient evidence of their
      penitence.—“Acts of the Parl. of Scots,” vol. vi. p. 352.—Ed.]

  396 [“After the woful rout at Dunbar, in the first meeting at Stirling,
      it was openly and vehemently pressed to have David Lesly laid aside,
      as long before was designed, but covertly by the chief purgers of
      the times. The man himself did as much press as any to have liberty
      to demit his charge, being covered with shame and discouragement for
      his late unhappiness, and irritated with Mr. James Guthrie’s publick
      invectives against him from the pulpit. The most of the committee of
      estates, and commission of the kirk, would have been content to let
      him go; but finding no man tolerably able to supply his place, and
      the greatest part of the remaining officers of horse and foot
      peremptory to lay down, if he continued not; and after all trials
      finding no maladministration on him to count of, but the removal of
      the army from the hill the night before the rout, which yet was a
      consequence of the committee’s order, contrary to his mind, to stop
      the enemy’s retreat, and for that end to storm Broxmouth house as
      soon as possible. On these considerations the state, unanimously did
      with all earnestness entreat him to keep still his charge against
      this order, my Lord Wariston, and, as I suppose Sir John Cheesly,
      did enter their dissent. I am sure Mr. James Guthrie did his, at
      which, as a great impertinency, many were offended. Col. Strachan
      offered to lay down his charge, being unwilling more to be commanded
      by D. Lesly. Some more inclined to do so, but all were quieted by
      this expedient.”—Baillie’s Letters, vol. ii. p. 350.—Ed.]

  397 [The religious zeal of Binning, his patriotism, and his dread of
      arbitrary power were, it is clear, stronger than his loyalty. Sir
      Edward Walker, however, vouches for the loyalty, at this period, of
      the Scottish nation in general. “For the disposition of the people,”
      he says, (Hist. Disc. p. 194) “they are generally for the king and
      his government, being most under the notion of Malignants and
      Engagers, about 100 of 120 noblemen being in that condition. Most of
      the Gentry are very loyal, and in a manner all the common people.”
      Binning’s language respecting Charles II. at the time of passing the
      Public Resolutions, appears to have startled his co-presbyter,
      Principal Baillie, who writes thus in a letter which was first
      designed for his friend Mr. Dickson, but afterwards sent to Mr.
      Spang at Campvere.—“Mr. Patrick [Gillespie] and Mr. James Guthrie,
      wherever they came, uttered their passion. I heard one who had
      married Mr. Patrick’s sister’s daughter report to Mr. Douglas, that
      Mr. Hugh Binning, with Mr. Patrick, in Kirkaldy, had spoke like a
      distracted man, saying to Mr. Douglas’s own wife, and the young man
      himself, and his mother-in-law, Mr. Patrick’s sister, ‘that the
      commission of the kirk would approve nothing that was right; that a
      hypocrite ought not to reign over us; that we ought to treat with
      Cromwell and give him security not to trouble England with a king;
      and whoever marred this treaty, the blood of the slain in this
      quarrel should be on their heads.’ Strange words if true.”—Letters,
      vol. ii. p. 363. The ungrateful, impolitic, and barbarous treatment
      which his Scottish subjects received from Charles II. after the
      Restoration, must be held to be a proof of the sagacity at least of
      Binning, and a justification of the suspicion with which he and some
      of the other Protesters regarded him. It is not unlikely that, in
      their case, the strong appeal to the fears of the English and
      Scottish presbyterians, as the supposed friends of monarchy,
      contained in Milton’s “Tenure of Kings and Magistrates,” which was
      published but two years before this, had not failed altogether of
      its effect.—Ed.]

  398 [I have not been able to discover to what “old translation” the
      author alludes. But Wilcox puts the same interpretation, that he
      does, upon the ninth verse of this chapter. “Sinne, (viz. which
      the wicked and ungodly men commit, and they know one of them by
      another,) maketh fools to agree, (viz. one of them with another:
      q.d. their partaking in wickednesse joineth the wicked’s minds, one
      of them towards another;) but among the righteous, (i.e. good and
      holy people,) that which is acceptable (viz. before God and good
      men) maketh agreement (viz. among themselves: q.d. good things
      onlie tie good men’s minds together).”  A Short yet Sound
      Commentarie Written on that Worthie Work called the Proverbs of
      Salomon. London, 1624.—Ed.]

  399 [The Estates, or parliament.—Ed.]

  400 [That is, notorious or manifest.—Ed.]

  401 [In the margin of the authorized version the verse is translated
      thus “A great man grieveth all and he hireth the fool, he hireth
      also transgressors.”—Ed.]

  402 [That is, violent blowing. Cairding however, is not unlikely the
      proper word, a caird being in Scotland the name of a
      tinker.—Ed.]

  403 [“Although you expel nature by violence, she will still
      return.”—Per. Epist. lib. i. ep. 10. ver. 24.—Ed.]

  404 [Having burst, as it were, its floodgates.—Ed.]

  405 [That is, more.—Ed.]

  406 [That is, a deficiency.—Ed.]

  407 [Gen. xxx. 11.—Ed.]

  408 [Vide Cic. de Offic. lib. iii. cap. 33.—Ed.]

  409 [Or mines.—Ed.]

  410 [Or, unsuitable.—Ed.]

  411 [“Charity does not inflict punishment because an offence has been
      committed, but lest an offence should be committed.”—Ed.]

  412 [“He that is not inclined to-day will be more inclined to-morrow.”
      This is reversing the saying of the poet—

      Qui non est hodie, cras minus aptus erit

      Ovid, Remed. Amor. ver. 94.—Ed.]

  413 [“She does not see what is in the bag behind her.”

      Sed non videmus manticæ quod in tergo est.

      Catul. Carm. xxii. ver. 21.

      There is an allusion here to one of the fables of Æsop. Jupiter,
      says Aesop, placed two bags upon men. The one, which contained their
      own faults, he put upon their back, and the other, which was filled
      with the faults of others, he suspended from their neck, upon their
      breast. In this way, we cannot see our own misdeeds, but, perceiving
      those of others, we censure them freely. Phæd. Fab. Æsop, lib. iv.
      fab. 10.—Ed.]

  414 [These are terms (locus inventionis the place or topic of
      invention, and medium, the argument or middle term of a
      syllogism) which, belonging to the dialectic art, were employed by
      the school-men. All the arts and sciences have certain general
      subjects connected with them which presuppose particular facts,
      axioms, and rules. These general subjects, being used in the
      invention of arguments, were called topics or common places. “They
      were so called by Aristotle, as if they were the seats from which
      arguments were to be brought forth.” (Sic appellatæ ab Aristotele
      sunt hæ quasi sedes e quibus argumenta promuntur). Cic. Top. cap.
      ii.—Ed.]

  415 [We grant and solicit in our turn this indulgence.  Hor. De Art.
      poet. ver. 11.—Ed.]

  416 [Or, condescendence.—Ed.]

  417 [Or, without its begetting love.—Ed.]

  418 [Overlook it.—Ed.]

  419 [Most.—Ed.]

  420 [The word homo (man) has been supposed to be derived from humus
      (the ground) because man sprang from the earth. Quintillian’s
      objection to this derivation of the word is that all other animals
      have the same origin. (quasi vero non omnibus animal bus eadem
      origo. Instit. Orator lib. i, cap. 6) Such an objection however has
      but little force. For though, according to the account which Moses
      gives of the creation, the earth at the command of God, not only
      brought forth man, but other creatures, (Gen. i. 24) man alone was
      called Adam מדא because he was formed of the dust of the ground,
      (המדא) Gen. ii. 7.—Joseph, Antiq. lib. i, cap. 1.—Ed.]

  421 [That is, “humble beings.”—Ed.]

  422 [See note page 168.—Ed.]

  423 [Humility is “the seasoning of the virtues,” as well as “the garb.”
      Cicero represents suavity of speech and manners to be the seasoning
      of friendship (condimentum amicitiæ). De Amicitia, cap. 18.—Ed.]

  424 [That is, “an ornament and covering.”—Ed.]

        425 [Crede mihi, bene qui latuit, bene vixit; et intra
      Fortunam debet quisque manere suam.

      “Believe me, he who has not attracted the notice of the world has
      lived well, and every one ought to keep within his own proper
      sphere.” Ovid Trist. lib. iii. eleg. iv, ver. 25.—Ed.]

  426 [“He who falls on a smooth surface, (yet this rarely happens,) falls
      in such a way that he can rise again from the ground he has
      touched.” Ovid, ut supra, ver. 17.—Ed.]

  427 [A relation of the principal circumstances in Binning’s life
      follows.—Ed.]

  428 [That is, he will not refuse.—Ed.]

  429 [Parcel.—Ed.]

  430 [Such a disburdening of former offences.—Ed.]

  431 [Inclination.—Ed.]

  432 [De Agricola filios suos docente. Æsop. Fab. p. 98. Oxon.
      1653.—Ed.]

  433 [Subdue.—Ed.]

  434 [Such a wonder.—Ed.]

  435 [Violent inclination.—Ed.]

  436 [That is, truths of little value.—Ed.]

  437 [In the Scottish universities, they were said to have laureated,
      who had a decree conferred upon them, as they were “crowned with
      laurel leaves.” Ev. Un. Com. vol. i. p. 153. Lond. 1837.—Ed.]

  438 [These are the generous sentiments of an enlightened Christian. They
      would lead us to infer that the author’s views, as a Protester, had
      been modified somewhat before he died or that he had never taken
      such high ground, as some others on this score.—Ed.]

  439 [Or, while we, on the other hand.—Ed.]

  440 [See note, page 168.—Ed.]

  441 [Perhaps it should be at least, less.—Ed.]

  442 [The word mystery seems to be used here in the sense of energy.
      It is sometimes spelt by Scottish writers mister and myster, and
      signifies an art or calling, being derived from the old French word
      mestier, a trade. When employed to denote something above human
      intelligence, it has a different origin (being formed from
      μυστηριον, a secret).—Ed.]

  443 [Exonerate, or unburthen.—Ed.]

  444 [Or harness.—Ed.]

  445 [Senec. Ep. 107.  See note, page 76.—Ed.]

  446 [We are not, “of our own authority.”—Ed.]

  447 [That is, weight or force.—Ed.]

  448 [That is, the honour not a load or a load of honour.—Ed.]

  449 [Confined.—Ed.]

  450 [See note, page 115.—Ed.]

  451 [The friendly salutation which the steward of Joseph addressed to
      his master’s brethren, when they went a second time to Egypt to
      purchase corn, was (מכל מולש Shalom leikoum) “Peace be to you.”
      After the lapse of so many ages, it is interesting to know that this
      still continues to be, with little variation, the common salutation
      of friends in the East. Salam aleikoum, “Peace be with you,” is
      immediately acknowledged by a similar greeting, Aliekoum salam, “To
      you be peace.”—Ed.]

  452 [To sit an offer is, not to accept it.—Ed.]

  453 [Reception.—Ed.]

  454 [The heathen mythologists represented the Sirens to be three in
      number, and described them as effecting the destruction of mariners,
      by luring them from their course with their singing. Od. lib. xii. v. 39. Cowper’s Translation.]

  455 [That is, one tune from another.—Ed.]

  456 [Or gifts of nature.—Ed.]

  457 [See note, page 595.—Ed.]

  458 [In the ancient Scottish dialect as in this instance, always is
      frequently synonymous with although, however,
      notwithstanding.—Ed.]

  459 [That is, coldly.—Ed.]

  460 [Natural.—Ed.]

  461 [Fallen out or quarrelled.—Ed.]

  462 [Some words are omitted here, which may be supplied thus:—though
      they said this, they perverted God’s meaning of the law,
      &c.—Ed.]

  463 [Serves the purpose.—Ed.]

  464 [Imperfect attempts.—Ed.]

  465 [A Scottish forensic word corresponding to Surety.—Ed.]

  466 [Acknowledge this.—Ed.]

  467 [A name formerly given to bankrupts in Scotland.—See Act. James VI.
      par. 23, cap. 18.—Ed.]

  468 [Attending the church.—Ed.]

  469 [Aim at.—Ed.]

  470 [Near the command.—Ed.]

  471 [A belief in the prevalence of witchcraft at this time seems to have
      pervaded all ranks and classes. An Act of Parliament was passed
      against it on the 1st of February, 1649.—Ed.]

  472 [Portal, or gate.—Ed.]

  473 [Exempted.—Ed.]

  474 [The illustration of the second proposition found in the text,
      “There is a faith feigned, and a faith unfeigned, a true and a false
      faith,” (p. 602) is omitted. We may conclude that this was the
      subject of a separate sermon, which has been lost.—Ed.]

  475 [Deposes or testifies.—Ed.]

  476 [That is, foresee or anticipate.—Ed.]

  477 [Charges, or accusations.—Ed.]

  478 [Than.—Ed.]

  479 [Gates.—Ed.]

  480 [Remove.—Ed.]

  481 [Always.—Ed.]

  482 [A proverbial expression signifying food and raiment.—Ed.]

  483 [Much less.—Ed.]

  484 [The sect of Seekers hold that there are not at this time, neither
      have been for many ages past any true ministers or ambassadors of
      Christ. (Gillespie’s Miscellany Questions, p. 1. Edinburgh, 1649.) A
      few years before this, Laurence Clarkson, a Seeker, published a
      pamphlet entitled “The Pilgrimage of Saints.” Edwards, in his
      Gangræna (Part I, p. 24, Part II, p. 6. London, 1646) refers to it
      for an account of the opinion of the Seekers. Clarkson declared that
      in these days there ought to be no churches built, no sacraments
      administered, that the saints as pilgrims, wander here as in a
      temple filled with smoke, not being able to find religion, and that,
      on this account, waiting for a church and for the coming of the
      Spirit as the apostles did, they ought to seek knowledge of any
      passenger, of any opinion or tenet whatsoever.—Ed.]

  485 [See note page 607.—Ed.]

  486 [Kindred alliance.—Ed.]

  487 [Or, in the third place.—Ed.]

  488 [Notwithstanding.—Ed.]

  489 [A cold desire.—Ed.]

  490 [That is a glimmering or slight degree of desire.—Ed.]

  491 [This was the exclamation of Archimedes the celebrated geometrician
      of Syracuse, (ευρηκα, ευρηκα), after discovering, when in the bath,
      a method of detecting the quantity of alloy, which a fraudulent
      artisan had mixed with the gold of Hiero’s crown.  (Plut. Mor. et
      Phil. Op. p. 1094.) An exclamation somewhat similar was uttered by
      Cicero, when, searching for the tomb of Archimedes in the
      neighbourhood of Syracuse he at length perceived it covered with
      thorns and brambles (Cic. Tusc. Quest lib. v. cap 23.) But if they
      had cause to be delighted, much more surely had Philip the apostle
      reason to be so when addressing Nathanael, he cried out in
      ecstasy—We have found him of whom Moses in the law and the prophets
      did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph! John i. 45.—Ed.]

  492 [In the present world.—Ed.]

  493 [Specify or enumerate.—Ed.]

  494 [Acknowledging.—Ed.]

  495 [Path or way.—Ed.]

  496 [Than.—Ed.]

  497 [Fix upon.—Ed.]

  498 [That is, no thought of eternity.—Ed.]

                      499 [Quid non mortalia pectora cogis
      Auri sacra fames?

      Virg. Æneid, lib. iii. ver. 56.

      “O sacred hunger of pernicious gold!
      What bands of faith can impious lucre hold?”

      Dryden’s Translation.

      Nihil enim est fam angusti animi, tamque parvi, quam amare divitias
      nihil honestius, magnifi entrusque, quam pecuniam contemnere, si non
      habeas si habeas, ad beneficentiam liberalitem que conferre. “There
      is no surer characteristic of a narrow and little mind than to love
      riches, nothing more amiable and noble than to despise money if you
      possess it not—if you possess it, to be beneficent and liberal in
      the use of it.” Cic. De Offic. lib. i. cap. 20.—Ed.]

  500 [That is, “It is difficult things that are admired.”—Ed.]

  501 [Excites.—Ed.]

  502 [From these, as from mount Pisgah.—Ed.]

  503 [That is, not “by a leap.”—Ed.]

  504 [Intrusted.—Ed.]

  505 [Too little.—Ed.]

  506 [That is, bedecks.—Ed.]

  507 [That is, has no interest in the world.—Ed.]

  508 [That is, the way in which you will take or receive.—Ed.]

  509 [That is, the duty of sobriety.—Ed.]

  510 [Much more.—Ed.]

  511 [It must be perceived that the reading ought to be “overcome like
      the Archangel.”—Ed.]

  512 [It is no less obvious that for “the prince Gabriel” we ought to
      read, the prince Michael. See Dan. x. 13, 21; Jude 9; Rev. xii.
      7.—Ed.]

  513 [That is, the prospective glass.—Ed.]

  514 [Or tutelage.—Ed.]

  515 [Declining.—Ed.]

  516 [That is, disposed. The word, though now obsolete, is found in
      Hooker.—Ed.]

  517 [That is, that hang low, and take a sweep of every thing by the
      way.—Ed.]

  518 [A single word appears to have dropped out here, the absence of
      which materially changes the meaning of the author, and makes him
      contradict himself. The sentence, it is conceived, ought to run
      thus:—faith and a good conscience scarce sail but in one bottom,
      that is, in one ship.—Ed.]

  519 [That is, insipid.—Ed.]

  520 [Upon the earth.—Ed.]

  521 [“It is hard to find many who are not tipplers or common drunkards,
      or will drink drunk on occasions and with company.” Causes of the
      Lord’s Wrath, p. 17. printed in the year 1653.—Ed.]

  522 [That is, a convenient time or place.—Ed.]

  523 [Or, till the evening.—Ed.]

  524 [That is, insane worldlings.—Ed.]

  525 [Property.—Ed.]