PUNCH,

OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 102.

March 19, 1892.

"ARE YOU HANSARD NOW?"

MERCHANT OF VENICE.

    ["The entire stock of Hansard's Parliamentary Debates ...
    was offered for sale. The vast collection, nearly 100,000
    volumes, scarcely fetched the price of waste paper."--Daily
    Paper.]

  The Auctioneer exclaimed,--"These Vols.
    Have neither fault nor blot.
  I think that I, without demur,
    May call them quite 'a lot.'

  "Speeches by RUSSELL, PAM, and BRIGHT,
    Good for the heart and head.
  Take them as spoken; if you like,
    Pray take them, too, as read."

  But when the Auction did begin,
    Bidders, alack! were lacking;
  Back numbers hove in sight in shoals,
    Yet seemed to have no backing.

  "Then this," quoth he, "appears to be
    The dismal situation;
  Though from these speeches statesmen quote,
    For them there's no quotation.

  "The eye has 'heavenly rhetoric,'
    Hear WILLIAM SHAKSPEARE cry;
  But heavenly rhetoric now, 'tis plain,
    Itself is all my eye.

  "A penny! Really such a bid
    I can't allow to pass;
  A man who'd offer coppers here
    Must be composed of brass.

  "'Progress' I cannot well 'report,'
    Unless this lot is bought in;
  The only progress seems to be,
    When there'll be no reportin'.

  "Such priceless gems, such wretched bids!"
    The hammer-man did shout;
  "If you desire, I knock them down--
    You first must knock me out!

  "No higher offer? Then I'm forced,
    Pray pardon the suggestion--
  To take a hint from Parliament,
    And 'move the Previous Question.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER SHAKSPEARE!

The last play by M. BLAGUE VAN DER BOSCH has just been translated into English. It is called
The Blackbeetle, and is a purely domestic drama. The following Scene from the last Act will
give some idea of the exquisite simplicity and pathos of this great work. M. VAN DER BOSCH's
admirers freely assert that SHAKSPEARE never wrote anything like this. It will be noticed that
M. VAN DER BOSCH, like M. MAETERLINCK, does not always name his characters, but only mentions
their relation to each other.

    SCENE XXV.--The Great Grandmother, the Mother-in-law,
    the Female First Cousin one remove, and the
    Brother-in-law's Aunt are discovered standing on the table,
    and the Half-sister's Nephew by marriage on a chair.

The Mother-in-law. Eh? eh? eh?

The Female First Cousin one remove (pointing to Half-sister's Nephew by marriage). He! he! he!

The Great Grandmother. Ay! ay! ay!

The Half-sister's Nephew by marriage (shuddering). Oh! oh! oh!

The Brother-in-law's Aunt (to him). You! you! you! [The Half-sister's Nephew by marriage descends
and resolutely steps upon the Blackbeetle. Curtain.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENTÊTEMENT BRITANNIQUE.

RONDEAU.

  Mal à la tête, ennui, migraine,
  We risk in trying to explain
    Why, though the Income-tax is high,
    This country never can supply
  Such galleries as line the Seine.

  Yet gifts are treated with disdain,
  Which gives the would-be donors pain,--
    We've now a name to call that by,
      "Mal à la TATE."

  Next time an offer's made in vain
  MACNEILL, or someone, will obtain,
    Or ask, at least, the reason why,
    And even dumber folks will cry,
  "By Jove! they've made a mull again,
     MULL à la TATE!"

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Everybody who took delight in our old friend Uncle Remus will thoroughly enjoy A Plantation
Printer, by JOEL CHANDLER HARRIS. The Baron doesn't recommend it to be taken at one sitting,
the dialect being rather difficult, but a chapter at a time will be found refreshing. The like
advice may be acted upon by anyone who has invested in the latest volume of the Library of
Wit and Humour, entitled Faces and Places. By H.W. LUCY. The "Faces" are represented by a portrait
of Ride-to-Khiva BURNABY, and one of the Author of these entertaining papers. The first brief
narrative, which ought to have been called "How I met BURNABY," is specially interesting; and
the only disappointing thing in the book is the omission of "An Evening with Witches," as a
companion picture to "A Night at Watts's."

By the way, in my copy of A Plantation Printer, the English printer has made one slip, a sin
of omission, at p. 153, where, Miss CARTER, a charming young lady, is watching a Georgian Fox-hunt.
She sees "a group of shadows, with musical voices, sweep across the Bermuda fields."

"'O ow beautiful!' exclaimed Miss CARTER, clapping her little hands," and, we may add, dropping
her little "h" in her excitement. "I can put up with the loss of an 'h,' but not for a wilderness
of aspirates would I have lost this healthy, cheery chapter," says

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A RAILWAY FOOT-WARMER.

  At first I loved thee--thou wast warm,--
    The porter called thee "'ot," nay, "bilin.'"
  I tipped him as thy welcome form
    He carried, with a grateful smile, in.

  Alas! thou art a faithless friend,
    Thy warmth was but dissimulation;
  Thy tepid glow is at an end,
    And I am nowhere near my station!

  I shiver, cold in feet and hands,
    It is a legal form of slaughter,
  They don't warm(!) trains in other lands
    With half a pint of tepid water.

  I spurn thy coldness with a kick,
    And pile on rugs as my protectors.
  I'd send--to warm them--to Old Nick,
    Thy parsimonious Directors!

       *       *       *       *       *

RICH V. POOR.

(A NOTE KINDLY CONTRIBUTED BY OUR OWN GRAPHIC REPORTER.)

Nothing could have been more impressive than the closing scene of a trial that was one of the
features of the present Sessions. The Counsel for the Prisoner made no pretence of hiding his
emotion, and freely used his pocket-handkerchief. Many ladies who had until now been occupied
in using opera-glasses, at this point relinquished those assistants to the eyesight, to fall
back upon the restorative properties of bottles filled with smelling-salts. Even his Lordship
on the Bench was seemingly touched to the very quick by the Prisoner's dignified appeal for
mercy. Before passing sentence, the Judge glanced for a moment at the number of titled and
other highly respectable witnesses who had testified to the integrity of the accused. Then
he addressed the Prisoner:--

"You have pleaded guilty to an indictment which charges you with having misappropriated trust
moneys. You have reduced a fortune of £28,000 to £7,000. This means a wretched pittance to
beneficiaries who, before your fraud, were enjoying a fairly decent income. I am aware that
you are a distinguished Magistrate,--that you have belonged to many Clubs,--that there is not
a slur upon the cooking that used to distinguish your dinner-parties. I know the severity of
the sentence I am about to pass, and I wish my conscience would permit me to give you a lighter
punishment. But I cannot."

The accused was then sentenced to five years' penal servitude.

A little later another prisoner was put in the dock for stealing twenty shillings. The prisoner
(who was a sailor) was sentenced to ten years' penal servitude, and seven years' police supervision.
The case was of no public interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MODESTY OF GENIUS.

  When TRAILL his list of Minor Poets drew,
  SPRUGGE's friends exclaimed, "Why, SPRUGGE, he's left out you!"

  To which SPRUGGE calmly answered, "Yes, I know it;
  And he is right. I'm not a Minor Poet."

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM AN IRISH REPORTER IN A TROUBLED DISTRICT.--"The Police patrolled the street all night,
but for all that there was no disturbance."

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW SONG OF TRIUMPH FOR SALVATIONISTS AT EASTBOURNE, ACCOMPANIED BY DRUM AND IRRELIGIOUS CYMBALS.--"Tra-la-la-Booth-te-ray!"

       *       *       *       *       *

DEMEANING THEMSELVES so!--Mrs. R. cannot understand our aristocracy being constantly Chairmen
at public dinners. She wouldn't be a Chairwoman for anything.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHERE "GHOSTS" OUGHT TO EXIST.--"Haunt 'un Street, W." It's an artistic quarter. [Is this Hornton
Street? Possibly.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PEOPLE WHO WOULD BE ALL THE BETTER FOR BECOMING TEMPERANCE MEN.--"The Lushais."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LIVING AND LEARNING.

MISS SYMPEL, who has never been out of London, saw an advertisement headed "Salmon Flies" in
a shop window. "Well!" she exclaimed, "I never knew till now that Salmon was a flying fish!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"A cabinet Minister in the Casual Ward," was the heading of an article in the D.T. last Friday,
and it turned out to be all about the Richie and the Poorie.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BEHRING SEA QUESTION.--Some delay at present, but immediately after signing we shall commence
"sealing."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FORCE OF EXAMPLE.

(A STORY OF ADVENTURE NOT IN THE LEAST LIKELY TO BE TRUE.)

"Do you see what RITCHIE has been doing?" asked the Secretary of State for War of one of his
colleagues.

"If you mean visiting the Casual Wards, after attending a meeting in the East End of London,
I do," replied the Home-Secretary. "An excellent idea, no doubt, suggested by that old story
of the Amateur Casual, which appeared some twenty or thirty years ago in the columns of an
evening paper."

"But don't you think it is playing it a little low?" suggested the First Lord of the Admiralty.

"Well, I don't know," returned the Autocrat of the W.O. "After all, there is nothing like personal
experience."

And then all three were silent, lost in profound consideration. Shortly afterwards they bade
one another adieu, declaring that they had greatly enjoyed their Cabinet Council.

It was some hours later that a soldier, wearing the uniform of the Guards, appeared at the
Wellington Barracks, and requested that he might be permitted to undertake a spell of "sentry
go." He was not known by the Non-commissioned Officer on duty, but as his papers appeared to
be correct, permission was given him to act as substitute for Private SMITH, who was next on
the roster.

And about the same time a person, wearing the garb of a convict, made his way to one of Her
Majesty's Prisons, and requested an interview with the Governor. His garb obtained for him
immediate admission to the precincts of the gaol.

"Well, my man," said the Governor, when his visitor appeared before him; "what do you want?"

"If you please, Sir," replied the person in the garb of a convict, "I shall be very much obliged
if you will permit me to have an hour or so at oakum-picking."

"Absolutely impossible," replied the Crown Official, "such luxuries are only allowed to individuals
who have been properly introduced to us by a Judge and Jury."

"I fancied," returned the wearer of the felon's garb, "that an order from the Home-Secretary
would smooth all difficulties."

"Certainly," admitted the Governor, "but such documents are only supplied to European Royal
Personages, or other foreigners of extreme distinction."

"I have the requisite document," replied the curiously-garbed stranger, and he was bowed into
a well-appointed cell, and furnished with the tangled rope for which he had petitioned.

And about the same time a sea-faring man applied to be rated on one of Her Majesty's Ships of War.

"Impossible!" was the immediate reply of the Captain, who was rather short-tempered.

"Nothing is impossible to the Admiralty," said the sea-faring man; "and, if you will glance
at this paper, you will see that I have special permission from Whitehall to be mast-headed,
or to undertake some other naval manoeuvre of a more modern date."

Suppressing an exclamation of a somewhat profane character, the Captain gave the required permission,
and a few minutes later the sea-faring man was mounting (with some difficulty), the quivering
rungs of a rope-ladder.

A few hours after the happening of these events, a weary soldier, a half-starved convict, and
a sailor covered with bruises, met by chance in the common room of a tavern. For some minutes
they were too exhausted to speak. At length, the convict declared that the organisation of
Her Majesty's Prisons was simply perfect.

"I greatly doubt it," replied the soldier; "but I can insist with truth, that nothing can possibly
equal the admirable condition of the Queen's Barracks."

"I don't for a moment believe it," put in the sea-faring man; "but I am prepared to swear that
the arrangements of the Admiralty could not possibly be better."

"Very likely," sneered the convict; "and no doubt they could not be worse!"

Upon this the three men began quarrelling and boasting of the merits of the institutions they
had recently visited.

"Pardon me," at length observed the convict, "but I have had some legal training, and it seems
to me that you are both gentlemen of great discernment. Nay, more, I should imagine that your
education is greatly in excess of that possessed by men of the same standing in the professions
you appear to have adopted."

"Not unlikely," replied the soldier, smilingly removing his disguise; "because I happen to
be the Secretary of State for War."

"And I," said the sailor, following suit, and emerging from his sea-faring garb, which now
was found to be covering an official uniform--"And I am the First Lord of the Admiralty."

Before the two Ministers could recover from their surprise, the wearer of the convict's garb
had also divested himself of a part of his costume, and the whole of his "make-up."

"You see you need not be ashamed of my company," he observed, with a smile, "as I am the Home-Secretary."

Then the three Ministers laughed, and each one of them insisted that his particular branch
of the Government Service was better than the branches of his colleagues.

"Let us change costumes," suggested the Home-Secretary, "and try for ourselves. I will become
a soldier, you can appear as a convict, and subsequently we might make a further alteration,
and allow our friend of the Admiralty to try some oakum-picking." But both the First Lord and
the Secretary of State raised objections.

"And yet," urged the Home-Secretary, "I do not think you would find much difference between
oakum-picking and sentry-go, and a plank-bed and a hammock on board a torpedo-boat have each
great claim to points of similarity."

"We readily believe you," replied the representative of the War Office, "and therefore further
test is unnecessary."

"Quite so," added the greatest living authority on Naval matters; "and thus I think we can
conveniently leave further personal investigation to such enthusiasts as Mr. RITCHIE and his
Private Secretary." And so, perfectly satisfied with the result of their peregrinations, the
Ministers again bade one another adieu, and, this time, finally separated.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

A GREAT LOSS TO EVERYBODY.--It is a great source of disappointment to Mr. Punch that GRANDOLPH
should have declined to be an Alderman. It may be a question as to whether he would have enlarged
the sphere of his influence, but, by accepting the turtle, it is aldermanically certain that
within six months our GRANDOLPH would have doubled his weight and increased his circumference.

       *       *       *       *       *

"HAIR-CUTTING, SINGEING, AND SHAMPOOING."

(A SKETCH IN A HAIR-DRESSER'S SALOON.)

    SCENE--A small but well-appointed Saloon, with the usual
    fittings. As the Scene opens, its only occupants are a
    Loquacious Assistant and a Customer with a more than
    ordinarily sympathetic manner.

The Loquacious Assistant. No, Sir, we're free to go the minute the clock strikes. We've no
clearing up or anythink of that sort to do, not bein' required to pufform any duties of a menial
nature, Sir. 'Ed a little more to the left, Sir.... Sundays I gen'ally go up the river. I'm
a Member of a Piskytorial Association. I don't do any fishin', to mention, but I jest carry
a rod in my 'and. Railway Comp'ny takes anglers at reduced fares, you see, Sir.... No, Sir,
don't stay 'ere all day long. Sometimes the Guv'nor sends me out to wait on parties at their
own residences. Pleasant change, Sir? Ah, you're right there, Sir! There's one lady as lives
in Prague Villas, Sir. I've been to do her 'air many a time. (He sighs sentimentally.) I did
like waitin' on 'er, Sir. Sech a beautiful woman she is, too,--with 'er face so white, ah!
'AWKINS her name is, and her 'usban' a stockbroker. She was an actress once, Sir, but she give
that up when she married. Told me she'd 'ad to work 'ard all her life to support her Ma, and
she did think after she was married she was goin' to enjoy herself--but she 'adn't! Ah, she
was a nice lady, Sir; she'd got her 'air in sech a tangle it took me three weeks to get it
right! I showed her three noo ways of doin' up her 'air, and she says to me, "What a clever
young man you are!" Her very words, Sir! Trim the ends of your moustache, Sir? Thankee, Sir.
Yes, she was a charmin' woman. She 'ad three parrots in the room with 'er, swearin' orful.
I enjoyed goin there, Sir; yes, Sir. Ain't been for ever sech a while now, Sir. I did think
of callin' again and pertendin' I'd forgot a comb, Sir, but I done that once, and I'm afraid
it wouldn't do twice, would it, Sir? Sixteen her number is--a sweet number, Sir! Limewash or
brilliantine, Sir?... And I know 'er maid and her man, too; oh, she keeps a grand 'ouse, Sir!
(Observing that the Sympathetic Customer is gradually growing red in the face and getting hysterical.)
Towel too tight for you, Sir? Allow me; thank you, Sir. (Here two fresh Customers enter.) Ready
for you in one moment, Gentlemen. The other Assistant is downstairs 'aving his tea, but he'll
be up directly

    [The two fresh Customers watch one another suspiciously,
    after the manner of Britons. The first, who is elderly,
    removes his hat and displays an abundance of strong grizzled
    hair, which he surveys complacently in a mirror. The second,
    a younger man, seems reluctant to uncover until absolutely
    obliged to do so.

The Grizzled Customer (to the Other Customer, as his natural self-satisfaction overcomes his
reserve). 'Shtonishing how fast one's hair does grow. It's not three weeks since I had a close
crop. Great nuisance, eh?

The Other Customer (with evident embarrassment). Er--eh, yes--quite so, I--I daresay.

    [He takes up a back number of "Punch," and reads the
    advertisements with deep interest. Meanwhile, the Loquacious
    Assistant has bowed out the Sympathetic Customer, and
    touched a bell. A Saturnine Assistant appears, still
    masticating bread-and-butter. The Second Customer removes
    his hat, revealing a denuded crown, and thereby causing
    surprise and a distinct increase of complacency in the
    Grizzled Gentleman, who submits himself to the Loquacious
    Assistant. The Bald Customer sinks resignedly into
    the chair indicated by the Saturnine Operator, feeling
    apologetic and conscious that he is not affording a fair scope
    for that gentleman's professional talent. The other Assistant
    appears to take a reflected pride in his subject.

The Loq. Ass. (to the Grizzled Customer). Remarkable how some parties do keep their 'air, Sir!
Now yours--(with a disparaging glance at the Bald Customer's image in the mirror)--yours grows
quite remarkable strong. Do you use anythink for it now?

The Gr. C. Not I. Leave that to those who are not so well protected!

The Loq. Ass. I was on'y wondering if you'd been applying our Rosicrucian Stimulant, Sir, that's
all. There's the gentleman next door to here--a chemist, he is--and if you'll believe me, he
was gettin' as bald as a robin, and he'd only tried it a fortnight when his 'ed come out all
over brustles!

The Gr. C. Brussels, what? Sprouts, eh?

The Loq. Ass. Hee-hee! no, Sir, brustles like on a brush. But you can afford to 'ave your laugh,
Sir!

The Sat. Ass. (to the Bald Customer, with withering deference). Much off, Sir?

The B.C. (weakly thinking to propitiate by making light of his infirmity). Well, there isn't
much on, is there?

The S.A. (taking a mean advantage). Well, Sir, it wouldn't be a very long job numberin' all
the 'airs on your 'ed, cert'nly! (Severely, as one reproaching him for carelessness.) You 'ave
been losin' your 'air! Puts me in mind of what the poet says in 'Amlet. "Oh, what a fallin'
off!" if you'll excuse me, Sir!

The B.C. (with a sensitive squirm). Oh, don't apologise--I'm used to it, you know!

The S.A. Ah, Sir, they do say the wind's tempered to the shorn lamb so as he can't see 'imself
as other's see 'im. But what you ought to 'ave is a little toopy. Make 'em so as you couldn't
tell it from natural 'air nowadays!

    [The Bald Customer feebly declines this meretricious
    adornment.

The Loq. Ass. (to his subject). Know Mr. PARIS PATTERTON of the Proscenium Theatre, Sir? 'E's
'ad to call in our Guv'nor, Sir. 'Is 'air's comin, off, Sir, dreadful, Sir. The Guv'nor's been
tryin' a noo wash on his 'ed.

The Gr. C. Ha, poor beggar! Wash doing it any good?

The Loq. Ass. (demurely). That I can't tell you, Sir; but it 'as a very agreeable perfùme.

The S.A. I think I've taken off about as much as you can spare, Sir!

The Gr. C. (with a note of triumph). Look here, you know, there's a lot more to come off here--won't
be missed, eh?

The Loq. Ass. No, Sir, you've an uncommon thick 'ed--of 'air, I mean, of course!

The S.A. If you'll take my advice, you'll 'ave yours singed, Sir.

The B.C. (dejectedly). Why, think it's any use?

The S.A. No doubt of that, Sir. Look at the way they singe a 'orse's legs. [The Bald Customer
yields, convinced by this argument.

The Gr. C. No singeing or any nonsense of that sort for me, mind!

    [They are shampooed simultaneously.

The B.C. (piteously, from his basin). Th--that's c-cold enough, thanks!

The Gr. C. (aggressively from his). Here, colder than that--as cold as you can make it--I don't
care!

The B.C. (drying his face meekly on a towel). A--a hand-brush, please, not the machine!

The S.A. No, Sir, machine-brush would about sweep all the 'air off your 'ed, Sir!

The Gr. C. Machinery for me--and your hardest brush, do you hear?

  The Loq. Ass.  { (together, to    {Shall I put anything on
  The S.A.       {their respective  {    your 'ed, Sir?
                   {  patients.)      {Like anything on your
                                        {     'air, Sir?

The S.A. Well, you may as well keep what little you 'ave got, Sir. Like to try our 'Irsutine
Lotion, capital thing, Sir. Known it answer in the most desprit cases. Keep it in 'alf-crown
or three-and-sixpenny sizes. Can I 'ave the pleasure of puttin' you up a three-and-sixpenny
one, Sir? (The Bald Customer musters up moral courage to decline, at which the Assistant appears
disgusted with him.) No, Sir? Much obliged, Sir. Let me see--(with a touch of sarcasm)--you
part your 'air a one side, I think, Sir? Brush your 'at, Sir? Thankee, Sir. Pay at the counter,
if you please. Shop--there!

The Loq. Ass. Think your 'air's as you like it now, Sir? Like to look at yourself in a 'and-glass,
Sir? Thank you, Sir.

    [The Bald Customer puts on his hat with relief, and
    instantly recovers his self-respect sufficiently to cast a
    defiant glare upon his rival, and walk out with dignity. The
    Grizzled Customer after prolonged self-inspection, follows.
    The two Assistants are left alone.

The Loq. Ass. Pretty proud of his 'air, that party, eh? Notice how I tumbled to him?

The S.A. (with superiority). I heard you, o' course, but, as I'm always tellin' you, you don't
do it delicate enough! When you've been in the profession as long as I have, and seen as much
of human nature, you'll begin to understand how important it is to 'ave tact. Now you never
'eard me stoop to flattery nor yet over-familiarity--and yet you can see for yourself I manage
without 'urting nobody's feelings--however bald! That's tact, that is!

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HORACE IN LONDON.

TO A WAITER. (AD PUERUM.)

  None of your mispronounced Gallic shams, Waiter;
  Call not "Potato" a "Pomme-de-terre, maîter
  D'ottle." I'd rather you styled it "Pertater,"
  As Britons, sure, may.

  As for décor, let the linen be stainless--
  Crowns of exotics are gauds for the brainless.
  Crowns, indeed! Here's half-a-crown; you would gain less
  Oft from a gourmet.

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. R. has just purchased the first two volumes of The History of the Popes (edited by F.
ANTROBUS), "because," she says, "I particularly want to read about the time of the Reminiscence,
with all about FIFTUS THE SIXTH and the Humorists."

       *       *       *       *       *

SERIOUS CASE.--A patient who doesn't want it known that there's anything the matter with him,
has placed himself under the care of Dr. ROBSON ROOSETEM PASHA, "because," he says, "his visits
then are 'sub Roose-ah!'" [Now we know what's the matter with him.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

A PLEA FOR THE DEFENCE.

    SCENE--Mr. Punch's Sanctum. Mr. PUNCH discovered, to him
    enter Mr. JOHN BULL.

Mr. Punch. Well, Mr. BULL, what can I do for you?

Mr. Bull. I want to know your opinion, Mr. Punch on the report of Lord WANTAGE's Committee
on Recruiting?

Mr. P. Which of the reports, my friend? There seem to be two--one by the Soldier Members, and
the other by the Government Under-Secretary of State for War.

Mr. B. Can't they be lumped together, Mr. Punch?

Mr. P. Well, yes, in the sense of being discarded. They are neither satisfactory, although
they contradict one another.

Mr. B. So I think, Mr. Punch. What is to be done?

Mr. P. I will do my best to answer you. But just as a preliminary question, may I ask whether
you insure your house, Mr. BULL?

Mr. B. Why, yes, certainly. I pay for guardianship and protection. If I did not, I should have
to start fire-engines and the rest of it myself.

Mr. P. Quite so. And you find it cheaper in the long run.

Mr. B. To be sure. I have got much, too much to do to bother about the details of security
from fire.

Mr. P. Again quite so. Then why don't you pay for your Army?

Mr. B. But I do, and a precious round sum too!

Mr. P. However, it is difficult to get recruits. And in England any and everything can be bought
by money.

Mr. B. Pardon me, Mr. Punch, that's all nonsense. Abroad, they can get soldiers at half the
price that--

Mr. P. (interrupting). Quite wrong, Mr. BULL. Soldiers are just as dear on the Continent as
they are here. Only, you see, the foreigners look after the fire themselves--they become soldiers,
instead of securing substitutes.

Mr. B. What do you mean?

Mr. P. That you must either pay the market price, or go in for conscription. Your money--or
your life!

Mr. B. Well, I really think I must consider it--I do, indeed!

Mr. P. And the sooner the better, Mr. BULL; and if you do not believe me, give Lord WANTAGE's
Committee Report a second reading.

    [Scene closes in upon Mr. JOHN BULL giving the document
    reconsideration.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOGIE MAN.

(NEW AND STARTLING CIVIC VERSION.)

Gog and Magog sing, sotto voce:--

  Oh, huddle near us, cherished ones!
    Hushed is our civic glee.
  The Voters, they have played the fool
    About the L.C.C.
  Oh, Turtle, dear--at table--
    Oh, Griffin, spick and span,
  I hear the Civic Fathers say
    Here comes the Bogie Man!

  Chorus.

  Oh, hush! hush! hush!
    Here comes the Bogie Man!
  What hope, dears, when BEN TILLETT
    Is made an Alderman?
  Oh, whist! whist! whist!
    He'll catch ye if he can!
  Then vain you'll run, my popsey-wops,
    From this new Bogie Man!

  When we sit down to dinner,
    My giant chum and I,
  O'er calipash and calipee
    We're both inclined to cry.
  Then hide your heads, my darlings;
    He'll catch ye if he can.
  Then whist! whist! whist!
    This new Progressive plan
  Would make our popsey-wopsey-wops
    Slaves to this Bogie Man!
  He'll collar all our civic perks,
    'Tis his "Progressive" plan.
  Oh, whist! whist! whist!
    He'll catch ye if he can.
  Heaven save you, my own popsey-wops,
    From yonder Bogie Man!

  Oh, pets, it gives us quite a shock
    To think of your sad fate,
  If you should lose your Guildhall rock,
    And we be doomed by fate.
  For BURNS our pride would humble,
    No "giants" in his plan!
  Oh, Turtle sweet, oh, Griffin neat,
    Beware, yon Bogie Man!

  Chorus.--Oh, whist! whist! whist!
    Here comes the Bogie Man!
  GOG and MAGOG, choice wines, good prog.
    Are no parts of his plan.
  Oh, hush! hush! hush!
    He'll catch ye if he can!
  Progressive "slops," my popsey-wops,
    He'll give--yon Bogey Man!

  Oh, ROSEBERY turned tr-r-raitor,
    And LUBBOCK seemed to cool,
  MCDOUGALL, now, and PARKINSON
    May proudly play the fool.
  London's delivered to be ruled
    On the "Progressive" plan,
  And "BEN" can bear the honoured name--
    Ye gods!--of ALDERMAN!!!

  Chorus.--Oh, hush! hush! hush!
    Here comes the Bogie Man!
  Turtle, be cautious; Griffin, hide!
    You're under his black ban.
  Oh, whist! whist! whist!
    "We'll save ye, if we can,
  My pretty popsey-wopsey-wops,
    From yon bad Bogie Man!

       *       *       *       *       *

TO QUEEN COAL.

(BY HER FOND BUT POOR LOVER.)

  "If thou art not dear to me,
  What care I how dear you be!"

       *       *       *       *       *

BUTTER AND BOSH.

    ["Many customers who want Margarine will not consent to
    buy it under that name, but insist on its being called
    'Butter.'"--Daily Paper.]

  Oh, Wisdom, surely here your words you waste
  On men who consciously deceive their taste;
  Who cheating self are blindest when they've seen,
  And call that Butter which is Margarine.
  "Give me," 'tis thus their sentiments they utter,
  "Firkins of Bosh, but label them as Butter.
  Who cares for honest names? they're all my eye.
  Decipiatur qui vult decipi."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"ON THE BLAZON'D SCROLL OF FAME."

