The neighbours imagine me to be an adept in the "black art," an astrologer, or a fortune-teller,
but I have no pretentions whatever to any such titles; this report has got abroad in consequence
of a maid-servant having once had the temerity to peep through the key-hole, and observed on
the wall opposite her "line of sight," some triangular characters. She had been in the habit
of poring over a dream book, and the art of casting nativities; the Prophetic Almanac was her
oracle, and its terrific title-page she informed her fellow servant "had just those queer triangle
things as was hung on the walls of young master's study." She was "sure that he could tell
her fortune." This important intelligence, delivered with due confidence to her fellow servant,
of course spread like wildfire among the other occupants of the "lower regions," and from them
amongst the handmaidens of sundry other dwellings. Thus has my astrological character been
established.

As all domestics are excluded my sanctum, of course I am obliged to "do for myself," and this
I prefer to being "done for," or having my room "set to rights," according to their notions
of neatness; my feelings on this point are exactly those of Scott's Antiquary; I therefore
"do for myself," and consequently, it follows I must light my own fire. Than on the morning
I have mentioned, the "grand agent" of the chemist was never more required. The air bit shrewdly,
and it was "bitter cold" upon entering the sanctum, although I had not quitted it many hours,
having watched the "old year out and the new year in," and then taken a short nap; yet Jack
Frost had been active during my absence, and cooled down the air of the sanctum some degrees
below the freezing point, at the same time coating the window panes with his beautiful crystalline
figures. The dark walls did look most awful, seen through the dun yellow light of the fog,
which met my view upon drawing aside the cabalistically hung curtains. I cast a look at the
Rumford grate; its black cold bars "grinned most horrible and ghastly." A sympathy was instantly
established between them and my nasal organ, for I found a drop of pure crystal pendant from
its extremity. Here, thought I, is an admirable question for "The Plain Why and Because." Why
does a drop of water hang from the nose on a frosty morning? Because the natural heat of the
body sends up vapour into the head, and that being exposed most to cold, the vapour condenses,
and a drop of water runs from the nostril, as it would do from the head of a still. Upon looking
at anything very cold, sympathy excites the same action. This "Why and Because" was succeeded
by another--Why does my fire-grate grin so coldly? Because you will not be "done for," else
Eliza could have raised a flame there for you an hour ago. The truth of this reply was so forcible
that I resolved to "do for myself" without delay, and evolve the "grand agent." I went to the
door, expecting to see my usual supply of fuel; none was to be found. What means this? said
I, and was about to make my wants known, but changed my intent as quickly, and being a little
excited by such neglect, determined not to be dependent upon the domestics, but make a fire
of my own. Now then for the materials. Paper, as all persons know, who have "lit their own
fires," is the foundation; it was also mine: sundry letters in reply to sundry unsuccessful
applications written on "thick double laid post," as the advertisements say, I seized upon,
and thrust their crumpled forms between the sooty bars of the grate with some wood, the model
of a mechanical invention of my own, which had been rejected by a Society, and why, I knew
not; I severed limb from limb, and disposed their fragments across and athwart on the letters
previously mutilated. How to obtain my coal posed me for a moment; but I recollected that in
a geological cabinet under my window, I was the possessor of a mass of pure Staffordshire,
weighing some twenty pounds. The doors of the cabinet flew open, and out it came; I had a strong
affection for this lump of coal, having extracted it myself from the mines, and carried it
many a weary mile on my return home. I felt loth to commit it to the flames; but this was necessity,
"stern necessity:" one or two blows of the mineralogical hammer destroyed my scruples, and
produced the proper cleavages in the mass of coal. I laid the precious stratum, super stratum
upon the two former, and other deposits of papyrus and lignum; such was my "coal formation."
The magic touch of a Promethean elicited my "grand agent" to the thick laid post; it consumed
rather sluggishly, but the dry pine wood of the broken model caught the flame and entered into
fair combustion, cracking and sparkling, and now and then sending out a hiss of pyroligenous
vapour; hissing yourself thought I. The fiery example was soon followed by the coal at first
slowly sending up wreaths of dirty, green, yellow smoke, but as the fire waxed warmer these
disappeared, and vivid hissing jets of ignited gas shot forth in abundance. The hissing annoyed
me; why, I could not divine; but as the heat increased I cooled from the state of excitement
produced by the testy destruction of my papers, model, and specimen. I sat down at the fire;
had I not better, said I, have made my wants known to the servant, than have acted as I have
done? No, I hate asking for what, as a duty should have been ready to my hands. I endeavoured
to persuade myself that I did not regret the deed I had done, but could not succeed; something
whispered me that I should suffer for it. I felt myself an "uncomfortable gentleman." I began
to trace my fire from its origin up to its present state of perfection; the letters were of
no consequence--none--the model I made myself and can make another--certainly--the coal I paid
dearly for by fatigue, but I can get another lump, and send it home by coach, yes; then why
am I so uncomfortable. I looked at the glowing fire which was getting insufferably hot, and
gave it a passionate poke, exclaiming, I wish I could stop your draught. Draught! draft, I
repeated, what has become of my draft that I received yesterday for my last paper? I began
to recollect myself where I had laid it, and quickly came to the awful conclusion that I had
placed it carefully between the folds of one of the sacrificed letters.

Misery and destruction, said I, that draft has caused my rapid fire! it is gone and forever!
Fool that I was; why did I not "blow up" the servants for paper, wood, and coals, and be "done
for properly" instead of thus "doing for myself." Ye alchymistical spirits, said I, invoking
the dark drapery, aid me to extract my gold from yonder ashes! but they were deaf to my calls,
and the old caput mortum seemed to grin in mockery. I could bear it no longer, and rushing
from the sanctum, met the servant girl on the stairs. "A draft! a draft!" repeated I; she thought
me mad; I was mad with vexation. "Sir," said she, "you will catch cold if there is a draught
such a day as this." A cold day as this, you wretch, Eliza, why did you not bring my coals
to the door this morning, then I could have had my fire without a draft; I want a ten guinea
draft, not a foggy, frosty draught. The girl stood amazed, but replied, "Please, sir, I didn't
bring the coals this morning because you said never to do so on a Sunday, sir." "Sunday," I
exclaimed, "is this Sunday?" "Lord bless me, sir, yes, and new year's day too, sir; happy new
year, sir," said the provoking little wench, who was now joined by another. I could stand it
no longer, but slunk back into the sanctum, "like a burnt child that dreaded the fire," hearing
them exclaim, "I thought how it would be, them odd things in his room has quite turned his
brain, poor young gentleman, he did not even know it was Sunday, and new year's day neither."

I really did not know it was Sunday, for my calculaters were destroyed by the circumstance
of our having kept Christmas Day on the Monday. I was aware that it was new year's day, and
had intended to begin 1832 with good works, instead of which I commenced it with destroying
my property, thus literally "doing for myself," and unlike most other people who invariably
suffer from a draught, I am suffering from the loss of one.

PYRAMIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

ADVENT.

(For the Mirror.)

In the North Riding of Yorkshire, the young folks retain a very ancient custom during Advent.
They make a wax figure representing the infant Jesus, and place it in a small wooden case,
with evergreens, which hide all but the figure. A napkin is thrown over the box; and the puppet
is thus carried about, and exhibited from door to door, by a boy, the others chanting some
supplicatory lines. The same custom prevails in Wales.

In Italy, a wax figure representing the Virgin, inclosed in a beautifully carved wooden case,
is placed on the back of an ass, and exhibited through the country during Advent. Every traveller
on seeing it prostrates himself immediately, and crosses himself, and considers himself in
duty bound to bestow his charity on the proprietor. Others carry emblematical figures through
the different towns, or sit by the road side, and uncover the effigy to every passer-by.

W.H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

CURIOUS MANORIAL RIGHT.

(For the Mirror.)

At Ripley Castle, in Yorkshire, the seat of Sir William Ingilby, there is in the great staircase
an elegant Venetian window, in the divisions of which, on stain-glass, are a series of escutcheons,
displaying the principal quarterings and intermarriages of the Ingilby family since their settling
at Ripley, during a course of 430 years.

In one of the chambers of the tower is the following sentence, carved on the frieze of the
wainscot:--"In the yeire of owre Ld. MDLV. was this howse buyldyd, by Sir Wyllyam Ingilby,
Knight, Philip and Marie reigning that time."

John Pallisser, of Bristhwaite, formerly held his lands of the manor of Ripley, by the payment
of a red rose at Midsummer, and by carrying the boar's head to the lord's table all the twelve
days of Christmas.

W.G.C.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

EUGENE ARAM.

We intend to quote a few scenes and snatches from Mr. Bulwer's extraordinary novel of this
name. At present, however, we can only introduce the ill-fated hero.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD JESTS.

Persons who gloat over dust and black-letter need scarcely be told that the best of "modern"
jests are almost literally from the antique: in short, that what we employ to "set the table
on a roar" were employed by the wise men of old to enliven their cups, deep and strong;--that
to jest was a part of the Platonic philosophy, and that the excellent fancies, the flashes
of merriment, of our forefathers, are nightly, nay hourly, re-echoed for our amusement. Yet
such is the whole art of pleasing: what has pleased will, with certain modifications, continue
to please again and again, until the end of time.

But we may displease; and, as Hamlet says, "We must speak by the card." The Athenaeum a fortnight
since drew forth a batch of these jests with antique humour richly dight, and here they are.
The reader will recognise many old acquaintances, but he need not touch his hat, lest, his
politeness weary him. These old stories are but "pick'd to be new vann'd."

Hierocles' Facetiae.

1. An irritable man went to visit a sick friend, and asked him concerning his health. The patient
was so ill that he could not reply; whereupon the other in a rage said, "I hope that I may
soon fall sick, and then I will not answer you when you visit me."

2. A speculative gentleman, wishing to teach his horse to do without food, starved him to death.
"I had a great loss," said he; "for, just as he learned to live without eating, he died."

3. A curious inquirer, desirous to know how he looked when asleep, sat with closed eyes before
a mirror.

4. A young man told his friend that he dreamed that he had struck his foot against a sharp
nail. "Why then do you sleep without your shoes?" was the reply.

5. A robustious countryman, meeting a physician, ran to hide behind a wall; being asked the
cause, he replied, "It is so long since I have been sick, that I am ashamed to look a physician
in the face."

6. A gentleman had a cask of Aminean wine, from which his servant stole a large quantity. When
the master perceived the deficiency, he diligently inspected the top of the cask but could
find no traces of an opening. "Look if there be not a hole in the bottom," said a bystander.
"Blockhead," he replied, "do you not see that the deficiency is at the top, and not at the bottom?"

7. A young man meeting an acquaintance, said, "I heard that you were dead." --"But," says the
other, "you see me alive."--"I do not know how that may be," replied he: "you are a notorious
liar, but my informant was a person of credit."

8. A man, hearing that a raven would live two hundred years, bought one to try.

9. During a storm, the passengers on board a vessel that appeared in danger seized different
implements to aid them in swimming, and one of the number selected for this purpose the anchor.

10. One of twin-brothers died: a fellow meeting the survivor asked, "Which is it, you or your
brother, that's dead?"

11. A man whose son was dead, seeing a crowd assembled to witness the funeral, said, "I am
ashamed to bring my little child into such a numerous assembly."

12. The son of a fond father, when going to war, promised to bring home the head of one of
the enemy. His parent replied, "I should be glad to see you come home without a head, provided
you come safe."

13. A man wrote to his friend in Greece begging him to purchase books. From negligence or avarice,
he neglected to execute the commission; but fearing that his correspondent might be offended,
he exclaimed when next they met, "My dear friend, I never got the letter that you wrote me
about the books."

14. A wittol, a barber, and a bald-headed man travelled together. Losing their way, they were
forced to sleep in the open air; and, to avert danger, it was agreed to keep watch by turns.
The lot first fell on the barber, who, for amusement, shaved the fool's head while he slept;
he then woke him, and the fool, raising his hand to scratch his head, exclaimed, "Here's a
pretty mistake; rascal! you have waked the bald-headed man instead of me."

15. A citizen, seeing some sparrows in a tree, went beneath and shook it, folding out his hat
to catch them as they fell.

16. A foolish fellow, having a house to sell, took a brick from the wall to exhibit as a sample.

17. A man meeting his friend, said, "I spoke to you last night in a dream." "Pardon me," replied
the other, "I did not hear you."

18. A man that had nearly been drowned while bathing, declared that he would not again go into
the water until he had learned to swim.

(To understand the next, we must premise that a horse with his first teeth was called by the
Greeks "a first thrower.")

19. A man selling a horse was asked if it was a first thrower. "By Jove," said he, "he's a
second thrower, for he threw both me and my father."

20. A fellow had to cross a river, and entered the boat on horseback; being asked the cause,
he replied, "I must ride, because I am in a hurry."

21. A student in want of money sold his books, and wrote home, "Father, rejoice; for I now
derive my support from literature."

We thank the wits of the Athenaeum for these piquancies: they are in the right true Attic vein,
and are therefore characteristic of that clever Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

KNOWLEDGE FOR THE PEOPLE.

(From Part xiii.--Botany.)

Why have vegetables the function of transpiration?

Because the sap, on arriving in the leaves, loses and gives out the superabundant quantity
of water which it contained.

Why are limpid drops often observed hanging at the points of leaves at sunrise?

Because of the vegetable transpiration condensed by the coldness of the night. It was long
thought that they were produced by dew; but Mushenbroëk first proved the above, by conclusive
experiments. He intercepted all communication between a poppy and the ambient air, by covering
it with a bell; and between it and the earth, by covering the vessel in which it grew with
a leaden plate. Next morning the drop appeared upon it as before--Richard.

One of the hydrangea tribe perspires so freely, that the leaves wither and become crisp in
a very short space of time, if the plant be not amply supplied with water: it has 160,000 apertures
on every inch square of surface, on the under disk of the leaf.

Why is more or less of a gummy, resinous, or saccharine matter found in every tree?

Because it is formed by branches of those returning vessels that deposit the new alburnum.

Why is it inferred that these juices must be prepared in the plant itself, by various secretions,
and changes of the fluids which it absorbs?

Because we find, that in the same climate, nay, even in the same spot of ground, rue has its
bitter--sorrel its acid--and the lettuce its cooling juices; and that the juices of the various
parts of one plant, or even of one fruit, are extremely different. Sir James Smith mentions
the peach-tree as a familiar example. "The gum of this tree is mild and mucilaginous. The bark,
leaves, and flowers, abound with a bitter secretion, of a purgative and rather dangerous quality,
than which nothing can be more distinct from the gum. The fruit is replete, not only with acid,
mucilage, and sugar, but with its own peculiar aromatic and highly volatile secretion, elaborated
within itself, on which its fine flavour depends."--Introduction to Botany, 6th edit.

Why are these juices readily found in the bark?

Because they appear to be matured, or brought to greater perfection, in layers of wood or bark
that have no longer any principal share in the circulation of the sap. Thus, the vessels containing
them are often very large, as the turpentine cells of the fir tribe, in all the species of
which these secretions abound. The substance from which spruce-beer is made, is an extract
of the branches of the Abies Canadensis, or Hemlock Spruce; a similar preparation is obtained
from the branches of Dacrydium, in the South Seas.

Why, in the spring, is the herbage under trees generally more luxuriant than it is beyond the
spread of their branches?

Because the driving mists and fogs becoming condensed on the branches, cause a frequent drip
beneath the tree not experienced in other places; and thus keep up a perpetual irrigation and
refreshment of the soil.

Why are certain plants useful or injurious to others that grow in their vicinity?

Because of certain fluids which the roots excrete from their slender extremities; and in this
manner the likings and antipathies of certain plants may be accounted for. Thus, it is well
known that the creeping thistle is hurtful to oats, erigeron acre to wheat, scabiosa arvensis
to flax, &c.

Why are some resins odorous?

Because they contain essential oil; some afford benzoic acid when heated, and these have been
termed balsams; such as tolu balsam and benzoin.

Common resin is obtained by distilling the exudation of different species of fir; oil of turpentine
passes over, and the resin remains behind.

Why are the varieties of the cashew tribe, called varnish-trees?

Because their large flowers abound in a resinous, sometimes acrid, and highly poisonous juice,
which afterwards turns black, and is used for varnishing in India. One kind is the common cashew
nut. All these varnishes are extremely dangerous to some constitutions; the skin, if rubbed
with them, inflames, and becomes covered with pimples that are difficult to heal; the fumes
have also been known to produce painful swelling and inflammation.

Why do these varnishes, at first white, afterwards turn black?

Because the recent juice is an organized substance, consisting of an immense congeries of small
parts, which disperse the sun's rays in all directions, like a thin film of unmelted tallow;
while the varnish which has been exposed to the air loses its organized structure, becomes
homogeneous, and then transmits the sun's rays, of a rich, deep, uniform, red colour.

The leaves of some species of Schinus are so filled with a resinous fluid, that the least degree
of unusual repletion of the tissue causes it to be discharged; thus, some of them fill the
air with fragrance after rain; and other kinds expel their resin with such violence when immersed
in water, as to have the appearance of spontaneous motion, in consequence of the recoil. Another
kind is said to cause swellings in those who sleep under its shade.--Brewster's Journal.

Why is the soap-tree so called?

Because its bark, if pulverized, and shaken in water, soon yields a solution, frothing, as
if it contained soap. It is a native of Chili; the trunk is straight, and of considerable height;
the wood is hard, red, and never splits; and the bark is rugged, fibrous, of ash-grey colour
externally, and white within.

Why is a species of myrtle called the wax-tree?

Because the leaves and stem, when bruised, and boiled in water, yield wax, which concretes
on cooling. Mr. Brande observes, "the glossy varnish upon the upper surface of many trees is
of a similar nature; and though there are shades of difference, these varieties of wax possess
the essential properties of that formed by the bee: indeed, it was formerly supposed that bees
merely collected the wax already formed by the vegetable: but Huber's experiments show, that
the insect has the power of transmuting sugar into wax, and that this is in fact a secretion."

The wax-palm of Humboldt has its trunk covered by a coating of wax, which exudes from the spaces
between the insertion of the leaves. It is, according to Vaquelin, a concrete, inflammable
substance, consisting of 1/3 wax, and 2/3 resin.

Why are some oils called vegetable butters?

Because they become solid at the ordinary temperatures. Such are cocoa-nut oil, palm oil, and
nutmeg oil.

Why are some volatile oils obtained by expression?

Because they are contained in distinct vesicles in the rind of fruits, as in the lemon, orange,
and bergamot.

Why is the oil of poppy-seed perfectly wholesome?

Because it is in no degree narcotic; nor has it any of the properties of the poppy itself.
This oil is consumed on the Continent in considerable quantity, and employed extensively in
adulterating olive oil. Its use was at one time prohibited in France, by decrees issued in
compliance with popular clamour; but it is now openly sold, the government and people having
grown wiser.

Why is the juice of the poppy called opium?

Because of its derivation from the Persian afioun, and the Arabian aphium. The botanical name
of the poppy, papaver, is said to be derived from its being commonly mixed with the pap, papa,
given to children in order to ease pain, and procure sleep.

Why does opium produce sleep?

