     The great and good work of restoring liberty to the captive, and
     fitting him to fill that station in the scale of being, from
     which he has been forced by the domineering spirit of power and
     usurpation, may be considered as little more than begun. How many
     thousands of miserable wretches yet languish in slavery, in these
     United States, to whom the light of morn, which should awaken all
     nature alike to harmony and joy, affords, perhaps, no other
     consolation save the solitary certainty, that one day more is
     taken from the long period of their sufferings--This is not
     all--In vain do you liberate the Africans, while you neglect to
     furnish him with the means of properly providing for himself, and
     of becoming an useful member of the community. This subject alone
     opens an extensive field for active benevolence, and justly
     demands the exercise of a large portion of the talents and
     labours of the friends of emancipation.

     To effect these desirable objects, so importunately called for by
     every sentiment of a feeling heart, union and concentration of
     energy appear to be indispensible. The societies should never be
     found in the pursuit of incongruous measures, but act in concert;
     and this cannot, perhaps be better accomplished than by a free
     and liberal interchange of information, whence useful knowledge
     should diverge to each society, communicating life, energy, and
     consistency to the whole.

     The advantages resulting from this institution may be known by
     past experience; but as an additional instance of the good
     effects flowing from it, we refer you to the addresses forwarded
     this year to the Convention, and printed in the minutes; in which
     you will perceive, and especially in the one from New York, much
     valuable matter. That society mentions a species of kidnapping,
     which to the disgrace of humanity, has been carried on in that
     city in a manner at once evincing the barefaced hardiness of its
     perpetrators, and the wicked and cunning arts practiced, by the
     enemies of freedom, on an oppressed people. There is good reason
     to believe, that similar practices are secretly pursued in other
     parts of the Union. We therefore earnestly press your vigilant
     attention to the subject, in order that if any other persons
     should be engaged in this nefarious traffic, they may be made to
     suffer that exposure and punishment which the enormity of the
     crime so richly merits.

     Fully impressed with the magnitude of the object, and the
     benefits to be derived from it, we cannot forbear strongly to
     recommend, that another Convention be held in this city on the
     first Wednesday in June, in the year 1801. And, in order to
     insure permanency, and its consequent advantages to this
     establishment, we submit to your consideration, the expediency of
     delegating to your Representatives, the power of aiding in the
     formation of a Constitution, for the government of future
     Conventions.

     The case mentioned by the Virginia society, held at Richmond,
     from which it seems evident that a small sum of money, beyond
     what their funds are calculated to bear, might restore a
     considerable number of persons to liberty, who were unlawfully
     taken from their state into Georgia, and there sold as slaves,
     has called forth the sympathy of this Convention; and forcibly
     suggests the propriety of enabling the next Convention, by the
     voluntary contributions of the different societies, to grant some
     pecuniary aid to similar and other proper objects. Much good
     might be done in this way; and perhaps some societies, who are
     capable, may be found willing promptly to bestow a portion of
     their funds to the Virginia society, to enable them more
     effectually to prosecute this particular claim, it is also to be
     presumed, that some of the Societies, especially in the eastern
     states, where slavery no longer exists, might render their
     benevolent exertions more extensively useful, by suitable and
     timely grants to others, who are less wealthy, and have much to
     do.

     You have embarked in an excellent cause--go on and
     prosper,--until liberty, like the light of Heaven, or the air we
     breathe, shall, however, men may be diversified by color, shape
     of habit, become the equal inheritance of all.[7]

     To the                                     Society for promoting
                     the Abolition of Slavery.

     THE seventh Convention of Delegates from the several Abolition
     Societies in the United States, now address you on the subject of
     their appointment. The concord and reciprocity of sentiment which
     have attended our proceedings will, we trust, have a happy
     influence on the cause in which we are engaged, and aid in
     advancing the great interests of humanity and freedom.

     The work which we have undertaken is not a light and trivial
     nature. It is, on the contrary, one of the utmost magnitude and
     importance. To remove the foul blot which now stains our country,
     to break the chains with which so many of our degraded fellow
     creatures are fettered, and to qualify them for the station for
     which a beneficent Creator designed them, are labours requiring
     the vigorous endeavours of every friend to mankind throughout the
     world. We, therefore, earnestly entreat that the cause may not be
     suffered to slumber in your hands, but that every favorable
     opportunity may be eagerly embraced of promoting the work of
     gradual emancipation.

     The subject of the education of the blacks has claimed a share of
     our consideration. It is an object of so much interest that we
     cannot too often bring it to view. On this point we particularly refer you to the
     sentiments so forcibly expressed in the addresses of preceding
     conventions, and we strenuously urge a strict compliance with the
     recommendations therein contained.

     The great increase of the practice of kidnapping in defiance of
     every principle of moral and legal obligation, induces us
     pressingly to recommend the most earnest endeavours to root out
     the enormous evil. In this instance there will be less to combat
     than on the general principle; the slave holders themselves being
     interested in preventing this addition to the many calamities
     inflicted on the unfortunate blacks.

     With feelings of sorrow and regret, we learn that the horrid
     trade to Africa for slaves is still continued by many of our
     fellow citizens. The hearts of those who can contemplate this
     subject without emotion must indeed be destitute of every
     sentiment of tenderness. It seems scarcely possible that men
     accustomed to the enjoyment of liberty, and partaking of the
     blessings of a free government should so far disregard the rights
     of humanity as to engage in so diabolical a commerce. The fact
     however, incredible as it may seem, certainly exists and to a
     very alarming extent, particularly in the eastern states; we wish
     to arouse your zeal on the occasion and to incite your diligence
     and activity in carrying into rigorous execution the laws of the
     states and of the general government against such atrocious
     offenders.

     The several Societies having expressed themselves favorable to
     the adoption of a constitution for the government of future
     conventions, we have made it a subject of our deliberations and
     being of opinion that the measure would be attended with
     considerable advantages we have agreed on a plan which we shall
     forward to you. The provisions of this instrument you will
     observe are of as general a nature as its objects would admit,
     and we hope it will prove acceptable to our constituents. If its
     present form should be approved you will be aware of the
     necessity of its speedy ratification. From the difficulty of
     framing a work of this kind, and accommodating it to the wishes
     and sentiments of every individual, it is hoped that verbal
     criticisms and alterations of an unimportant nature will be
     avoided; this point however, we submit to your prudent
     consideration and decision. Should you think proper to adopt it
     we request your aid in establishing the contemplated fund.

     As numerous misrepresentations of the views of our institutions
     have gone abroad, and as the unhappy attempt at insurrection on
     the part of some of the blacks in the southern states, has been
     called in aid of these misrepresentations by the enemies of
     liberty, and lessened the activity of some of its friends, we
     have judged it prudent to publish an address to our fellow
     citizens, copies whereof will be transmitted to you; you will
     observe from a perusal of its contents that its object is also to
     bear our testimony, and produce individual exertion against the
     abominable practice of kidnapping and the cruel trade to Africa,
     which, as before observed, still disgrace our country. We
     anticipate the satisfaction of your approval of this measure, and
     invite your assistance by every means in your power, in giving it
     general circulation.

     We have had our attention drawn to a subject, believed by our
     predecessors to be of considerable importance to the work of
     emancipation; the project of forming a history of slavery in the
     United States. With a view of forwarding this design, we have
     appointed a committee to examine and arrange the various papers
     and documents heretofore received by the several Conventions; to
     prepare an analysis of their contents, and to report the same
     with such other information as they may be enabled to obtain, to
     the ensuing Convention. We request you to examine the minutes and
     addresses heretofore transmitted, for the purpose of ascertaining
     how far the requisitions of former Conventions have been complied
     with on your part, and if my information connected with the
     object in view remains to be afforded, a benefit will arise from
     its speedy communication to the committee, and if individuals
     friendly to the cause, be possessed of any important documents
     relating to this subject, the committee will no doubt make a
     proper use of any information with which they may be favored.[8]

     To the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Society for Promoting the
                            Abolition of Slavery.

     It is with lively satisfaction that the eighth Convention of
     Delegates from different Abolition Societies in the United
     States, embrace the opportunity of addressing you on the
     interesting cause, which thus continues to claim our persevering
     attention, the ultimate success whereof, will, we confidently
     hope, yield an ample reward for all our labours.

     Various and important, in our opinion, are the benefits resulting
     from thus meeting in annual Conventions. For though we are not
     invested with legislative influence, yet the opportunity, by this
     means afforded, for a free interchange of sentiments and
     communion of feelings, gives energy to action and animation to
     those who, from multiplied difficulties, are almost ready to
     relinquish the pursuit.

     We have with the united consent of our constituents, fully
     ratified the Constitution which was presented for your
     consideration, and have appointed officers for the ensuing year.

     This organization of the body, will, we earnestly hope, induce
     your renewed attention to the nomination of Delegates to the next
     Convention, and we urge the necessity of your deputing those,
     whom you have reason to believe, may be willing to devote an
     adequate portion of their time and attention to a compliance with
     the objects of their appointment; we request also in an especial
     manner that you will not fail, regularly to forward written
     communications from your societies.

     Several societies have instructed their representatives to pay
     certain sums towards the formation of a general fund, from which,
     if it continues to accumulate, as we hope, it will, much good may
     be expected to our common cause, particularly in furnishing aid
     to those societies who are deficient in pecuniary resources.

     In the promotion of the laudable purposes to which this fund may
     be thus applied, we trust our friends in several of the Eastern
     States, whose domestic exertions have become almost unnecessary
     by the disappearance of slavery from amongst them, will feel a
     lively interest;--we, therefore, earnestly solicit their peculiar
     attention to the subject, persuaded they will feel, in a
     consciousness of having done well, and in a view of the useful
     result of their beneficence, an ample reward. We are aware of the
     varied difficulty and opposition that attend the interference of
     some societies in this benevolent undertaking. But we sincerely
     hope they may not be overcome by any discouragements, and we
     request that they may continue to meet at regular periods, to
     preserve the form of their association, embracing every
     opportunity that may occur for useful exertions.

     As the general establishment of a legislative plan, for the
     gradual abolition of slavery throughout the United States, is a
     desideratum highly interesting to humanity, we cannot but press
     all those societies which exist in states, where no such legal
     provisions are in force, to make every proper exertion, in
     promoting the enaction of a law to this effect.

     Much has been said by former Conventions on the subject of
     schools, and the vast importance of cultivating the minds and the
     morals of the blacks; no doubt difficulties of various kinds
     arise in many places to the attainment of this essential point,
     yet the happy effects abundantly conspicuous in divers
     neighbourhoods, on a persevering attention to this object,
     furnish great encouragement to unrelaxed exertion, and we
     sincerely hope that you may not diminish in zeal, for the
     promotion of this benevolent, this consistent work. We learn with
     particular pleasure, that the state of Schools for the African
     race, is, in several places, flourishing and progressive; and
     that in others, much good has been done therein, by the laudable
     and disinterested demand the acknowledgment of our unfeigned
     approbation.

     We perceive, with emotions of horror and regret, that the
     diabolical practice of kidnapping, notwithstanding the vigilance
     of societies and recommendations of former Conventions, prevails
     in many places to a lamentable extent. We are also informed that
     a new species of this wicked outrage on the feelings of humanity
     is pursued by the perpetrators taking advantage of the provisions
     of the fugitive act to lay unfounded claims on the blacks and
     thus, under colour of the law, to drag them into slavery. We
     recommend you to urge every suitable means to procure such
     modifications of your laws as they may need to fit them for
     holding out efficient and prompt restraints against those wicked
     proceedings, and for bringing the offenders to exemplary
     punishment.

     We are informed by the reports from New-Jersey, that a new
     society has been established at Trenton, forming a constituent
     branch of the general society of that state. This has afforded us
     peculiar satisfaction; it promises to be materially useful to the
     cause, and we recommend the example as worthy of your special
     notice, and so far as you deem it practicable of your example.

     In one of the societies from which we have had communications, a
     standing committee has been appointed, who are charged with the
     selection and publication of such extracts, essays and fugitive
     pieces relative to slavery, as they apprehend may give currency
     to the subject and revive in the minds of our fellow citizens,
     from time to time a few reflections on the condition of those who
     still wear the galling chains, deprived of one of the dearest
     privileges of our nature. We highly approve of this mode of
     circulating a knowledge of the subject, and recommend it to the
     imitation of all, who are not in a similar practice.

     The committee appointed by the last Constitution to arrange the
     papers and documents relative to the formation of a history of
     slavery in the United States, and to produce an analysis of their
     contents, produced a report, from which we have judged it right
     to nominate three of our members in Philadelphia to engage some
     suitable literary character to undertake the work, and to have it
     published under the care, and superintendence of the committee;
     should you be in possession of any documents or other important
     information on the subject, we request you will forward them free
     of expense and with all convenient dispatch to the said
     committee, in order that they may be used as circumstances may
     render necessary.

     The circuitous trade to Africa we have reason to believe, still
     continues to be carried on, particularly from many ports in the
     Eastern States, and although several of the attempts which have
     been made to punish infractions of the laws of the United States
     on this subject, have not resulted in the wished for event,
     nevertheless, we invite your vigilant and persevering opposition
     to this disgraceful traffic, and attention to the discovery and
     prosecution of the offenders, and we are willing to hope that
     though a partial perversion of the public sentiment, and the
     cupidity of interested individuals, may for a time, present
     considerable discouragement, yet that the virtuous exertions of
     the friends of the human race, will at last be blessed with the
     merited success.

     To conclude, fellow labourers, we believe the magnitude of the
     work in which we are engaged is by no means lessened, and that
     the alarming and direful consequences attendant in various
     quarters, on this unchristian and inhuman usurpation of power,
     call for our united vigilance, and redoubled exertions, in
     contributing our share towards the eradication of this evil so
     portentous to our land.[9]

     To the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Society for Promoting the
                          Abolition of Slavery.

     We have received, with cordial satisfaction, the addresses to
     this Convention from the societies in New-York, New-Jersey,
     Pennsylvania, and Delaware.

     This interchange of opinion and information, between the
     Convention and its constituents, is as the vital current of the
     body, flowing from part to part, and communicating genial warmth,
     and health, and vigour, to every portion of the system.

     Our satisfaction would have been much increased, could we have
     acknowledged the receipt of communications and delegations from
     several societies which were represented in former Conventions,
     but from whom we have now to direct intelligence; and had some of
     the addresses which have now no direct intelligence contained
     more detailed information.

     Impressed with a sense of the interesting nature of the subject,
     we cannot but call your renewed attention to the education of the
     blacks. The schools are represented as being, in some parts, in a
     flourishing condition; while in others it is to be feared, little
     or nothing has been done towards their establishment and support.
     We recommend to such societies as have it not in their power,
     from the scantiness of their funds and other circumstances, to
     employ regular tutors, to form associations of their members, or
     other well disposed individuals, to instruct the people of colour
     in the most simple and useful branches of education; especially
     on the first day of the week--a day too often devoted to
     dissipation. It is also of importance that their religious and
     moral education should keep pace with their knowledge of letters,
     or much permanent good will not be accomplished. They should be
     taught to fear and venerate the Deity; to respect the laws of the
     country, and in all things to act as becomes men escaped from
     bondage, and on whose good conduct must, in some measure, depend
     the liberation of their brethren, and the kind of treatment of
     such as remain in slavery. We believe it would be profitable
     occasionally to convene them, in order to afford suitable
     opportunities to impress their minds with these truths.

     As much good may be expected to result from the establishment of
     a fund, to be at the disposal of the Convention, we hope the
     laudable example set by some of the societies, in their donations
     for that purpose, will be followed by wealthy individuals, and by
     other societies who are in a capacity to afford it.

     A person of established literary reputation has been engaged to
     write a history of the rise, progress, and present state of
     slavery in the United States; and some advancement has been made
     in the work--As a great variety of information on this subject
     will be necessary, to enable the author to compose a correct and
     ample history, you are requested to collect and forward, without
     delay all such essays and facts, relative to the design, as may
     be in your power.

     At the same time that we invite a vigilant and constant
     attention, in the friends of the blacks, to prevent as far as
     their power extends, the infraction of the laws of the country in
     favour of emancipation, we confidently trust that due care will
     be observed to select men to the several offices of the
     societies, who have their zeal tempered with prudence and
     knowledge; for we are sensible, that for want of sound discretion
     on the part of some well-meaning but over-zealous individuals,
     the views and conduct of the body at large, have been grossly
     misunderstood; the cause has suffered undeserved reproach in the
     minds of some of our fellow citizens, and heavy expenses have
     been incurred in the unfavorable termination of suits undertaken
     without sufficient evidence, and with too much precipitation.

     Being persuaded that no favourable opportunity should be lost for
     impressing the public mind with the iniquity of slavery, and the
     varied vices and evils, which are incident to it, in all their
     forms and consequences, we entreat such of you as have not chosen
     Standing Committees, charged with the publication of extracts and
     fugitive pieces, on this very interesting subject, to adopt the
     measure. Its utility has been fully proven by experience, which
     is the best of wisdom. To those societies who have derived
     advantage from the practice, we recommend a diligent and habitual
     attention to the subject.

     We observe, with much sensibility and regret, that the inhuman
     and wicked practice of kidnapping, still prevails in our country,
     and that several cases of it have occurred since the meeting of
     the last Convention. Was there no other object to claim the
     ardent sympathy, and the active opposition of our associated
     brethren, than this alone, it would of itself be sufficiently
     interesting and momentous to justify an union of all our powers,
     and a vigorous combination of all our efforts, to resist this
     single enormity, this cruel and savage violation of the rights of
     our fellow-men. We request that you will, in your succeeding
     communications to the Convention, furnish accurate accounts of
     the several cases which may come under your notice, and that you
     will detail with precision, such of them as may be attended with
     particular circumstances of atrocity. The perpetrators should be
     known and exposed to public odium. Their names whenever detected,
     should be circulated throughout the continent, through the medium
     of the public prints; and no offender, who can be brought to
     punishment, should be suffered to escape the just penalty of his
     transgressions.

     The discouragements which prevail among the friends and advocates
     of the African race, especially to the southward, have excited
     the anxious concern of the Convention. While we have nine hundred
     thousand slaves in our country--while we have the strongest
     evidence that new importations will take place--while the
     abominable practice of kidnapping exists to an alarming and most
     sorrowful extent--while we have reason to believe that hundreds
     of vessels sail annually from our shores to traffic in the blood
     of our fellow-men--and while we feel, acknowledge, and deplore,
     that the cause of emancipation has many strenuous, powerful, and
     unwearied opponents in every quarter of the union--Can this be
     the time to remit our effort? and to abandon that standard under
     which, with the favour and protection of Providence, so many
     thousands have been rescued from the yoke of bondage, and
     restored to the enjoyment of their natural rights? Not so
     brethren--Be not disheartened--Let us rather redouble our
     diligence to help forward the great and good work in which we
     have engaged; resting our hopes of ultimate success, on our
     honest and disinterested endeavours, and on the justice of our
     cause.[10]

     To the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Society for Promoting the
                          Abolition of Slavery.

     THIS Convention has the pleasure of acknowledging the reception
     of addresses from the Societies of New York, New Jersey,
     Pennsylvania, and Delaware; and of a communication from the
     Society of Rhode Island. A free interchange of sentiments between
     the different societies, through the medium of the Convention, we
     consider as a matter of primary importance. By such
     communications, the Convention becomes the central fountain, into
     which the opinions, and experience of the different societies are
     received, and from whence the united knowledge may be
     transmitted to the individual branches. We therefore recommend,
     to each society, a continuation of the practice, and we earnestly
     entreat them to comply with our request of last year, by
     furnishing us with "more detailed information," not only
     respecting the moral, literary, and legal condition of slaves,
     and other persons of colour, within their districts, but also
     with minute accounts of every attempt at kidnapping, mentioning
     the names of the parties concerned in the business. Such
     information will open to us an extensive view of slavery and its
     attendant evils, as they exist within the whole circle of our
     societies, and enable us to labour with greater certainty and
     more effect, for the performance of the solemn duties which are
     imposed on us.

     We perceive, with sincere and deep regret, that some societies
     have not yet made much progress in the establishment of schools
     for the literary and moral improvement of the people of colour.
     We cannot withhold the expression of our anxiety on this
     subject.... We consider it a matter of high moment, involving the
     most interesting and affecting consequences. Shall we, by
     lukewarmness or neglect, give the enemies of our institutions the
     triumph of reproaching us with indifference.... With a want of
     that virtue ... that inflexible spirit of perseverance, without
     which the tree we have nourished, and hoped to bring to maturity,
     may erect its barren and useless branches before us, a gloomy
     monument of our indolence? With what reproaches, and
     difficulties, and dangers, have our societies heretofore
     contended! with a courage and temperance, which could have been
     maintained only in a great and good cause; we have withstood all
     the rude onsets of the enemies of rational liberty, and, under
     the protection of a wise Providence, we have, step by step, moved
     forward, subduing by the eloquent voice of reason and humanity,
     the oppressors of the weeping Africans, until we have seen the
     fetters fall from thousands, and beheld those, who had been
     reduced to the condition of beasts of burthen, rising from the
     earth with the privileges and rights of men! Shall we now desert
     them? after teaching them that they belong to the rank of man,
     shall we refuse to employ our time and talents in preparing their
     minds for the enjoyment of those pleasures, and the practice of
     those virtues which belong to their species? We have hitherto
     been their friends; if we now desert them, to whom shall they
     apply for help? Their fate, as it regards human aid, rests
     chiefly with us. Let us try the strength of our virtue.... Let us
     decide, by a vote in our societies, whether we will continue our
     parental care over them, or leave them friendless and abandoned
     to their own weakness and ignorance. This vote will proclaim to
     the world the sincerity of our views, and the integrity of our
     hearts. If we are weary of well-doing, we shall forsake them; but
     if our breasts still glow with benevolence, we shall decide, with
     one voice, in their favour. Before we determine the important
     question, it will be well for us to recollect that no good deed
     passes unrewarded. Every individual sacrifice, to humanity and
     virtue, will be placed to our credit in the records of our lives.

     The Convention have been informed, by one society, that "not
     being able to raise funds for the payment of a tutor, they have
     appointed a committee, of ten members, who maintained a school
     during the last summer and autumn, on the First-day afternoon of
     each week, for the moral and literary education of people of
     colour," and that they propose re-commencing the business early
     next summer. This conduct merits and receives our approbation,
     and we regard it as highly worthy the attention of societies in
     similar circumstances.... We exhort them to "go and do likewise."

     In the cities of New York and Philadelphia, the schools appear to
     be in a flourishing condition; in some of them persons of colour
     are employed as teachers, and where such persons, properly
     qualified, can be procured, the Convention believes the
     employment of them will be attended with peculiar advantages....
     It will contribute to kindle a spirit of emulation in their
     brethren. In some places there are persons of colour whose
     pecuniary circumstances would allow them to give something
     towards the support of schools, for their own class, and we think
     it proper and just, that their aid should be solicited.

     Several societies have informed us that benefit has arisen from
     their meetings with the coloured people. We therefore, recommend
     that each society select a committee, of suitable members, whose
     duty it shall be to assemble the free persons of colour, as often
     as they shall judge it useful, and communicate to them such
     advice and instruction, as they shall think necessary; and that
     the committee report, in writing, the result of their opinions
     respecting the conference, to the next succeeding meeting of
     their society.

     The Convention of last year, recommended to each society, the
     appointment of a committee for the purpose of publishing
     extracts, and essays, shewing the impolicy, and injustice of
     slavery; but we observe, with regret, this subject has not
     received that serious and diligent attention to which it was
     entitled. No abolition society can be ignorant that there are yet
     many thousands of persons, within the United States, who are
     opposed, on what they esteem grounds of justice and policy, to
     African liberty. Many remain under the erroneous notion, that the
     blacks are a class of beings not merely inferior to, but
     absolutely a species different from the whites, and that they are
     intended, by nature, only for the degradations and sufferings of
     slavery. There was a time when the people of all our states, and
     members of every religious sect, were overshadowed by the
     darkness of this error, and, in consequence of their erroneous
     opinions, practised legal violations of the rights of humanity.
     The pen, and the tongue of reason and truth have convinced
     thousands of the falsity of those opinions, and such instruments
     should not be permitted to rest in idleness, until truth and
     humanity obtain a complete and universal triumph.

     We lament the continued necessity, of inviting your attention to
     the clandestine commerce, which, in defiance of our state and
     national laws, is still carried on to the coast of Africa.
     Information has been received that artful men, with the secrecy
     of midnight robbers, have contrived means of loading their
     vessels for Africa, and obtaining cargoes of slaves, and vending
     them in the West Indies, without subjecting themselves to such
     detection as would lead to legal punishment. Let us keep a
     watchful eye on all persons of this class, and endeavour to deter
     them from the perpetration of such cruel offences, by the only
     argument of which they are susceptible, the fear of the just
     punishment of the laws of their country.

     This address will be accompanied by a number of copies of our
     advice to the free people of colour. We leave it to your
     discretion, to distribute them, together with such parts of our
     former advices, as you shall judge expedient.

     Finally, brethren, we beseech you by the rights of humanity ...
     by the pleadings of mercy ... by the great and interesting cause
     which we have espoused, that you suffer nothing to discourage you
     in your useful labours, ... but that you persevere in your good
     works of justice and benevolence, with a temperate and firm
     spirit until your task, by the aid of Providence, shall be
     accomplished.[11]

     To

     WE the American Convention of Delegates for promoting the
     Abolition of Slavery, feeling the importance of the business
     which you have committed to our deliberation, deem it our duty to
     address you, and to communicate some of the subjects which have
     claimed our particular attention.

     We learn that in some parts of the United States, there are yet
     men so lost to all honourable feelings, so deeply depraved as to
     violate those laws of their country which were intended to
     protect the rights of free persons of colour. Those who have any
     knowledge of the heart of man, his selfish attachments, and the
     firm grasp with which he seizes and holds all that he calls his
     own, cannot be surprized at the reluctance which individuals
     evince, in resigning their claims to those people of colour who
     are legally their slaves: but at this period when the rights of
     man are so well understood, in a country where the highest degree
     of civil liberty is enjoyed by the white citizens, it appears
     astonishing that the kidnapper should be permitted to carry on
     his depredations; that his audacious encroachments on the rights
     and happiness of the suffering people of colour should, for a
     moment, be tolerated. We hope our feelings on this subject, will
     not be considered as the offspring of misguided zeal. Every one
     in whose heart the pulse of benevolence beats, whose sentiments
     are not degraded beneath the dignity of man must feel on this
     occasion; he must be sensible of the deep crime which the
     kidnapper commits against the laws of his country, and the
     violent nature of his trespass on the dearest rights of humanity.
     The man of colour whom our country has declared free; around
     whose liberty the law has thrown its protecting arms, in defiance
     of the voice of that country and that law, is torn from his
     family by the midnight robber, and transported to the mournful
     regions of perpetual slavery, while his wife and his little ones
     are left to struggle alone, in poverty, for the bread of mere
     existence. This is a melancholy but a faithful picture of the
     miseries occasioned by the detestable kidnapper. Let us exert our
     best faculties for the purpose of eradicating such evils. Those
     societies who form the line of demarcation between the states in
     which slavery has been partially or totally abolished, and those
     in which it is unconditionally maintained, are particularly and
     earnestly requested to use all their vigilance for the detection
     of kidnappers and the suppression of those crimes. We do not mean
     to say that any deficiency, in proper zeal, has been manifested
     by those societies, we rather wish to speak the language of
     encouragement.

     We observe with satisfaction the continued care, of several
     societies, in the great task of education. We hope there is not a
     single member of any one of our societies who does not perceive
     the importance of it. To make men happy in themselves and useful
     to society it is not necessary that they be taught the abstruse
     sciences, but it is indispensibly requisite that they be
     qualified to form a correct estimate of those powers, and to
     exercise those faculties which the Great Creator of man has been
     pleased to intrust to their care. The Abolition Societies may be
     regarded as the paternal protectors and friends of the people of
     colour. They have undertaken that task, and it is their duty to
     persevere in their labours, to hold out to the end in their good
     work. Although liberty be a blessing, when we obtain the freedom
     of the slave our work is not completed. It then becomes our
     peculiar charge to endeavour to teach the enfranchised man how to
     value, and how to employ the privileges which have fallen to his
     lot. This noble task is rapidly progressing in some societies,
     and we seriously and affectionately invite others to imitate
     their benevolent efforts. Lancaster's plan of instruction seems
     admirably adapted for the communication of the rudiments of
     literature, we hope there are, in all our societies, some
     individuals whose condition of life will allow them leisure, and
     whose virtue will animate them to persevering efforts in the
     blessed task of instructing the forlorn, and in some places, we
     may say almost friendless people of colour. Let them be taught to
     read and they will be introduced to a knowledge of the
     scriptures, those sacred repositories of moral and divine truth;
     let them be taught the elementary branches of arithmetic which
     will prepare them for the common concerns of life.

     We rejoice with you that our national Government has had the
     wisdom and humanity, to embrace the first constitutional
     opportunity afforded, to pass a law which entirely prohibits our
     citizens from foreign traffic in human flesh. We hope our hearts
     are not without sentiments of sincere gratitude to the great
     disposer of events for that signal blessing. But we have to
     sympathize with nearly a million of human beings who are subject
     to the bonds of slavery within the United States, we have yet to
     mourn over this dishonour of our country. The progress of truth,
     or correct opinion of right has accomplished great ends, but much
     remains to be done. Domestic slavery is a national crime; a
     crime which is calculated to excite in the man of upright
     sentiments, serious and awful apprehensions of the final
     consequences of its continuance. It is our duty to employ the pen
     and the press for the dissemination of such arguments as shall
     convince our countrymen of the injustice and impolicy of such
     slavery. The man whose mind is clouded by prejudice, while his
     heart is hardened by selfish considerations, must have truth
     frequently repeated, and presented under various aspects, before
     his errors can be corrected, his prejudices subdued, and the
     noble feelings of philanthropy excited in his breast. This is a
     constant, an arduous, but not a hopeless duty. We therefore
     recommend the frequent publication of extracts from celebrated
     works, or original essays, tending to establish the justice and
     policy of gradual and general emancipation.

     One society has informed us that a committee of its members held
     a satisfactory conference with the blacks and other people of
     colour. We think such conferences, under the direction of
     discreet men, may have a beneficial influence on the minds of the
     blacks, we again recommend the subject to your attention. In such
     meetings the advice of former Conventions may be renewed, and, we
     think, the necessity of legal marriages, honesty in their
     dealings, and the importance of religious instruction should be
     impressively urged upon them.

     We learn that Thomas Clarkson's history of the abolition of the
     slave trade, which has been reprinted in Philadelphia, is now
     published for the emolument of its author. When we consider the
     value of this work to the cause of emancipation, the
     indefatigable zeal of that powerful and benevolent advocate for
     the rights of the Africans, and his great expense in the
     performance of his labours, we think ourselves bound in duty, to
     contribute our aid for the general circulation of his interesting
     history. We therefore earnestly recommend that work to your
     patronage, and we hope you will cheerfully employ such means, as
     you may think effectual for promoting its sale.[12]

     To                             Society for promoting abolition.

     IN discharging the customary duty of addressing you, we have
     great satisfaction in stating, that the business of the
     Convention has been conducted, throughout, with the utmost
     cordiality.

     We cannot, however, forbear the expression of our sincere regret,
     that so few societies have been represented in this Convention.
     When we contemplate the interesting magnitude of the cause in
     which we have unitedly and voluntarily embarked--when we consider
     the solid and obvious advantages, which have hitherto been
     derived, to the friends of humanity, from a free and personal
     interchange of opinion and from unison of action, we confidently
     trust that trifling impediments will not be suffered to interpose
     in the fulfilment of our duty. We therefore, in that freedom
     which becomes the advocates of truth and justice, do most
     earnestly and affectionately recommend a more zealous attention
     to this important point, in order that the succeeding Convention
     may be more fully attended. Much has been accomplished, but, when
     we remember that it has been officially announced by the late
     census that nearly twelve hundred thousand of our fellow beings
     remain in a state of abject bondage in our deluded country, it
     surely will not, cannot be denied, that much, very much, remains
     yet to be done. You have put your hands to the plough--look not
     back till ye shall have accomplished the end. You have commenced
     the wrestling, cease not your hold till ye shall have obtained
     the prize.

     While against the oppressor, we plead the cause of the
     oppressed--While we invite the unhappy slave to a patient and
     Christian submission to his condition--and urge on his legalized
     master a humane exercise of his power--While we feel ourselves
     bound, by all honourable and lawful means, to protect those whom
     the laws have enfranchised, from being again dragged into
     slavery--let us not forget how much depends on the careful
     instruction of all who are free. Without this our labour will be
     but very partially accomplished. This great object, so important
     to ourselves, as members of those who are the subjects of our
     care; and the Convention have learned, with heart-felt
     satisfaction, that it is proposed, by the people of colour in New
     York, to raise a fund among themselves, for the instruction of
     their orphan children. This circumstance, while it proves an
     honourable testimony to the persevering zeal of the New-York
     Manumission Society, reflects great credit on the blacks
     themselves; and we hope the example will not be without
     beneficial effects elsewhere. Could such of these people as have
     it in their power, be persuaded to apply a part of their surplus
     earnings to the establishment of similar funds, instead, as is
     unhappily the case in too many instances, of spending their money
     in courses which prove injurious to their health and morals, not
     only their race, but the community at large, would from such
     meritorious efforts speedily reap the most unequivocal
     advantages.

     It appears that, in defiance of the laws already provided to
     interdict the inhuman practice, and notwithstanding the enormity
     of the offence in itself, men are yet found, so lost to justice
     and the tender feeling of humanity, as to be guilty of carrying
     free blacks from some of the states, and selling them as slaves
     in others. We, therefore, recommend renewed vigilance to detect
     and prosecute these hardened transgressors--and that, whenever
     the laws are found to be defective, or insufficient to the
     correction of the evil, application be made, to the constituted
     authorities, for such amendments, and alterations as may be
     necessary and effectual; that our country may be purged of this
     most grievous iniquity.

     The Pennsylvania Society accompanied their address to the
     Convention with some very interesting documents, which were
     transmitted to them by the African Institution in London, part of
     which it is proposed to publish in the form of an appendix to our
     printed minutes, in order that the information which it contains
     may be more generally diffused. The Convention have not, at this
     time, deemed it necessary or expedient, to take any further order
     on this subject. Were the laws of the general government, in
     relation to the slave trade, duly and faithfully executed, it is
     believed they would put an end to this inhuman traffic, which, to
     the disgrace of some of our citizens, it is but too evident they
     have been carrying on under the protection and cover of foreign
     flags. We invite you to a careful perusal of these documents.
     They contain the evidence of a mass of iniquity, the development
     of which cannot but excite the indignation of every feeling mind.

     You will perceive, by the minutes of our proceedings, that the
     friends of humanity have gained an accession to their cause in
     the establishment of an Abolition Society in Kentucky. We trust
     their labours will be blessed with success, and that this dawn of
     light will burst into a more perfect day on our brethren of the
     southern states, casting its cheering and benign influence alike
     on all; that the ensanguined lash of the task master, and the
     cries of the slave, may no longer appal the ear and sicken the
     heart, in this boasted land of mercy and equal rights.[13]

     The Committee appointed to draft an address to the several
     Abolition, Manumission, &c. Societies in the United
     States--reported an essay, which was read, considered by
     paragraphs, and adopted, as follows:--

     To the various Societies instituted to promote the Abolition of
     Slavery in the United States, or to protect the rights and
     improve the condition of the People of Color.

     The American Convention of delegates from Societies, associated
     in various parts of our country, to promote the abolition of
     slavery and improve the condition of the African race, convened
     in Philadelphia, having harmoniously transacted its important
     concerns, address you at this time with increased interest for
     the success of the cause they have espoused; firmly relying on
     the Divine Being for a blessing on their feeble efforts to
     promote the cause of justice and mercy.

     The communications forwarded to the Convention at this time,
     fully evince that the cause of emancipation continues to advance,
     and that even in the strongholds of slavery the friends of the
     oppressed slave are fast increasing in numbers. Our fellow
     citizens of the south and west are becoming more and more
     awakened to a sense of the evil, injustice, and impolicy of
     slavery; and we firmly trust that those who have engaged in the
     benevolent work of "restoring liberty to the captive, and to let
     the oppressed go free," will not look back with discouragement at
     the long period this cruelty has prevailed, but continue to press
     forward with increased energy to the goal they have set before
     them, the complete and final abolition of slavery within the
     United States. To promote this desirable object we know of no
     measures more efficient than the formation of anti-slavery
     associations, particularly in situations where the evils of
     slavery prevail; for experience has fully proved that a
     combination of effort has often effected that which individual
     exertion has attempted in vain. The dissemination of useful works
     and tracts on the subject of slavery, cannot but have a powerful
     effect in enlightening the public mind on this awfully
     interesting subject. The Convention would particularly recommend
     the following works to your special attention--viz: Clarkson's
     Abolition of the Slave Trade, abridged by Evan Lewis; Clarkson's
     Thoughts on Slavery; Laws of the State of Pennsylvania, passed
     1780; Tract on Slavery, published by the Tract Association of
     Friends in Philadelphia; Hodgson's Letter to J. B. Say, on the
     comparative productiveness of Free and Slave Labor; and a work
     now preparing for publication in this city, entitled, A Sketch of
     the Laws in relation to Slavery in the United States, by George
     M. Stroud. They also recommend that each Anti-Slavery Society
     subscribe, and promote subscriptions among their members and
     others, for the Genius of Universal Emancipation, edited by
     Benjamin Lundy, of Baltimore; and to the African Observer, a
     periodical work published in Philadelphia, by Enoch Lewis; and
     the Freedom's Journal, a weekly paper published at New York, by
     John B. Russwurm, a person of color. All these works we believe
     are well conducted, and will be powerful aids to the cause of
     liberty and justice.

     As an incipient step to the abolition of slavery, we earnestly
     recommend that immediate application be made to the Legislature
     of states where slavery exists, to prohibit the sale of slaves
     out of the state. The traffic which is thus carried on from state
     to state, is fruitful of evil consequences, not only depraving
     the minds of those engaged in it, but producing the most cruel
     separations of near connexions, and depriving its victims of
     almost every incentive to conjugal fidelity or correctness of
     conduct. Perhaps next in importance in meliorating the condition
     of the slaves, is the adoption of regulations for their religious
     instruction, and the education of their children.

     The condition of the free people of color in the United States
     has claimed our attention, and we earnestly recommend to the
     several societies, not only to use their endeavors to protect
     them in their just rights, but to use every means in their power
     to elevate them in the scale of society, by affording them and
     their children the means of literary instruction. And as the
     first day of the week is too frequently spent by them in
     dissipation, we would suggest the formation of associations
     wherever practicable, for the establishment of first day or
     Sunday schools for their benefit, as well as schools on the other
     days of the week. The degraded condition of this class of men
     ought to call forth our regret and sympathy; being precluded from
     pursuing the lucrative employments of life, it is much to be
     desired that more of them than have heretofore been permitted may
     be instructed in handicraft trades, and employed in manufactures.

     You will observe, by our minutes, that the Convention has again
     addressed Congress, on the important subject of the abolition of
     slavery in the District of Columbia, and the restriction of the
     further introduction of slaves into the Territory of Florida; and
     we hope our application will be supported by addresses from other
     bodies of our constituents. The Convention believes that if the
     advocates of freedom persevere in endeavoring to enlighten the
     public mind on this all important subject, that the time is not
     far distant when a triumph will be obtained over the strong
     prejudice and delusion which has so long continued, and the cause
     of justice and humanity will finally prevail.

     The Convention fervently desires that all who have put their
     hands to this great work may really deserve the epithet of
     "Saints," which in irony has been reproachfully cast upon them;
     and by their energy, prudence, and moderation, convince their
     opponents they have been mistaken in their characters and
     conduct. And we confidently hope that the blessing of that
     Almighty Being, who equally regards the bond and the free, will
     crown your righteous labor with success.[14]

     To the various Anti-Slavery Societies in the United States. And in the performance of this task, we are
     particularly solicitous to draw your attention to the subject of
     the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia--a subject
     which we view as highly important, especially at the present
     moment, and deserving your most serious consideration.

     When we reflect that the government of this District emanates
     from the Congress of the United States--that the power to
     regulate its political and municipal concerns is solely vested in
     that body--that the people of every State must share the honor or
     opprobium attending the course of conduct pursued by the
     authorities in the administration of its local government--and
     that the whole Union must be measurably responsible for the
     consequence resulting therefrom--when we take this view of the
     subject, we ought not for a moment to hesitate in appealing to
     the friends of humanity in every section of the country, and
     urging them to use all lawful and just means, within their reach,
     to limit, and finally to eradicate the demoralizing and
     corrupting system of slavery, which is yet upheld and tolerated
     there.

     We will not enter into a minute detail of the many advantages
     that would result to the nation, either morally or politically,
     from the abolition of slavery, in the District aforesaid.--But we
     feel it an imperious duty to state, that in our opinion it would
     be attended with the most salutary effects on other portions of
     the Union, the influence of which would be incalculable. Under
     the present regulations, that distinguished spot on which is
     erected the sacred Fane of republican Freedom, is not only
     polluted by the galling shackle and the iron rod of oppression,
     but is absolutely converted into a great depository for the
     purchase and sale of human beings. The demoralizing effect which
     this must produce on the minds of many who become familiarized
     with it, and the odium which it attaches to us, in the estimation
     of enlightened foreigners, many of whom are constant witnesses
     thereof, must inevitably sap the foundation of our free
     institutions, and degrade our national character in the eyes of
     the world. This, we conceive, (to say nothing of the injustice of
     slavery and its concomitants,) should be a sufficient incentive
     to action--a sufficient inducement to labor in the holy cause of
     emancipation.

     We are aware that it has been asserted, even on the floor of
     Congress, that we should wait until the people of that District
     themselves demand the abolition of the system of slavery. This
     doctrine we conceive to be fallacious. The people there are not
     exclusively responsible for the national disgrace and criminality
     attending it. The United States government, and of course, the
     people in every section of the Union, must bear the odium and
     meet the consequences:--and if so, it follows, that they have a
     perfect right to avert the same, by such just and legal means as
     their wisdom may point out, and their judgment select. But a
     portion of the people of that District are now demanding the
     eradication of the evil in question. Societies for the abolition
     of slavery have been organized among them; and they have
     protested against the continuance of the cruel and disgraceful
     practice. Let, then, the voice of their brethren elsewhere, be
     heard in unison with theirs. Let a strong appeal be made to the
     justice of the nation, that the constituted authorities may be
     induced to take up the subject, and bestow upon it that care
     which its importance imperiously requires.

     To facilitate the accomplishment of this purpose, we would advise
     and recommend, that petitions and memorials be circulated by all
     the anti-slavery societies in each of the States and territories,
     for the signature of the citizens at large, and that they be
     forwarded to Congress by the Representatives, with instructions
     to lay them before that body, at an early day.

     The Committee appointed to consider on and report what measures,
     &c. made the following report.

     To the American Convention for promoting the Abolition of
     Slavery, &c.

     The Committee appointed "to consider of and report what measures
     are necessary to be taken to promote the Abolition of the
     Domestic Slave Trade, and to protect free persons of color from
     being kidnapped, and whether any regulations might be adopted to
     prevent their being carried off in steam boats, stages, and
     coasting vessels," Report, that although in their opinion the
     intimate connexion existing between the Domestic Slave Trade and
     the system of slavery generally, precludes the expectation of
     applying a very efficient check to the one, except by a reduction
     of the other, yet they indulge the hope that the united influence
     of the several Abolition and Anti-Slavery Societies throughout
     the Union, directed to memorializing Congress, might procure some
     wholesome restraint upon a traffick fraught with such aggravated
     evil, and productive of such complicated misery.

     In relation to the other subject submitted to them, viz. "the
     protection of free persons of color against kidnappers," the
     Committee are of opinion that the existing laws appear to be
     amply sufficient, if properly executed. They have, therefore, no
     other measures to recommend than the less obtrusive, but
     persevering exertions, of the several associations now formed,
     and which may be hereafter instituted, in the different sections
     of our country.

     On behalf of the Committee,

                         DAVID SCHOLFIELD, Chairman.[15]

     To the Abolition, Manumission, and Anti-Slavery Societies in the
     United States of America.

     FELLOW LABORERS.--In reviewing the labors of the several
     Anti-Slavery Societies in the United States, there is much to
     cheer and gratify us. In looking over the different sections of
     our extended country, we find the cause of truth and humanity has
     slowly, but regularly advanced, in the minds of our fellow
     citizens generally. And we think nothing remains but perseverance
     in presenting the subject of slavery in its native deformity and
     its hideous aspect, to convince its advocates of their error, and
     to overcome all the opposition which can be arrayed against us.
     We are satisfied that to the perseverance of its advocates alone,
     we are indebted in a considerable degree for the change of
     opinion in the Northern, Middle, and some of the Western States:
     and we sincerely hope that a similar change will be ultimately
     made in the southern sections of our county. Let us never relax
     in our exertions to promote the emancipation, and meliorate the
     condition of slaves, till every human being in these United
     States shall equally enjoy, all the blessings of our free
     Institutions. How can we feel apathy or indifference while we can
     almost see from the windows of the room in which we are now
     deliberating, a receptacle for slaves, in which they are thrust,
     manacled and bound, all ready to ship by their avaricious owner
     in the first vessel whose master or owners are as hard hearted
     and unprincipled as himself! Yes! A dungeon, the horrors of which
     has called forth deep emotions of regret from all who are
     permitted to see the misery and wretchedness of its inmates, and
     particularly the tears and great agitation of a benevolent aged
     stranger, who, in visiting this country, which has always
     professed "That all men are by nature, and of right ought to be
     free," was surprised and shocked to find in the precincts of one
     of the most professedly enlightened and patriotic cities in the
     Union, a storehouse of human flesh!

     Slavery in whatever point of light considered, is a revolting
     subject, repugnant to the best feelings of our nature, as
     inconsistent with the rights and happiness of man. We therefore,
     urge the respective Societies to renewed exertions, in behalf of
     our colored population, and to petition Congress to abolish
     Slavery in the District of Columbia, and also to prevent its
     further extension in the territories of the United States.

     Deeply injured as they have been by the whites, the colored
     people certainly claim from us some degree of retributive
     justice; we would, therefore, at this time particularly and
     earnestly recommend to the renewed attention of all the
     Abolition, Manumission and Anti-Slavery Societies in this
     country, the all-important subject of giving the colored children
     literary instruction, and placing them as apprentices to useful
     trades.

     For, unquestionably, the most efficient means of promoting the
     moral improvement of this degraded portion of the human family is
     the institution of schools. And it must be obvious to every
     thinking mind, that a portion of education will be absolutely
     necessary to prepare the slave for the enjoyment of freedom; and
     such has been the happy influence of it on the scholars in the
     New York African Free School, that the Trustees in that city,
     state, that no scholar who has been regularly educated in their
     school, has ever been convicted of crime in any of their courts
     of justice. We have no doubt that if similar means were used in
     other places, the like happy result would be obtained. And it is
     equally certain, that facts like these do more to obliterate idle
     prejudice than all abstract reasoning on the subject.

     The Convention have been highly pleased at this time by the
     exhibition of some handsome specimens of the skill and talent of
     some of the boys in the African school under the charge of
     Charles C. Andrews, in New York; creditable alike to the
     Teacher and the scholar. For a more particular description of
     these articles, we refer to page 20 of the minutes of this
     Convention.

     We again call your attention to the following extract from our
     Address last year, particularly applicable to the present
     subject.

     "And while the members of the several Societies are laboring in
     the good work of universal emancipation, the Convention would
     particularly urge them to use all suitable endeavours, mildly
     yet earnestly, to prevail upon slave holders to consider the
     injustice and impolicy of tolerating Slavery; and prevail, if
     possible, upon such individuals, to fall into some plan for its
     gradual and entire abolition in our otherwise free and favoured
     country."

     We conclude with exhorting all those who are engaged with us in
     this important cause, to persevere, with the hope and confidence,
     that although our progress may be apparently slow, and our
     prospects sometimes appear discouraging, conformably to the
     dispensations of a Gracious Providence, truth and justice must,
     and will ultimately prevail.

     All of which is respectfully submitted.

                         EDMUND HAVILAND, Chairman.[16]

     To the Manumission, Anti-Slavery Societies, &c, throughout the
     United States.

     FELLOW CITIZENS,--The American Convention for promoting the
     Abolition of Slavery, &c. now sitting at Washington, in the
     District of Columbia, having seriously taken into consideration
     the state of slavery in the said district, and in the United
     States generally, and viewed what furtherance the cause of
     freedom has received for some time past, are decidedly of
     opinion, that increasing efforts are at this time, emphatically
     called for, on the part of those who really think that "all men
     are created free and equal."

     Memorial after memorial has been presented to Congress, but as
     yet they have produced but little visible effect. Small progress
     has been made towards abolishing slavery at the seat of our
     National Government. It has been a subject of much reflection
     what measures would be most likely to accomplish the grand object
     of our labours; and we would suggest whether greater success
     would not be likely to crown our efforts, by more widely
     disseminating a knowledge of the objects and principles of the
     different Anti-Slavery Societies throughout the Union. The
     subject has been referred at this session of our Acting
     Committee, but our funds are too limited to act as extensively as
     the great importance of the object requires. It is believed that
     a very large portion of the citizens of the United States are
     favorable to the emancipation of the people of colour, if it
     could be done upon legitimate principles, without infringing
     upon the rights of individuals or endangering the safety of the
     community; and if the dissemination of our principles was more
     generally attended to, co-adjuting societies would doubtless
     increase, and this Convention eventually become a body so
     numerous and respectable, that the National Government would not
     withhold its attention.

     The proper education of the African race should form a prominent
     feature in all our efforts. It is with much gratification we are
     enabled to state that the address from New York, mentions a
     continued advancement in the literary improvement of the coloured
     children, and that from Philadelphia holds out the prospect of
     the establishment of a school for teaching them the higher
     branches of an English education and thus enabling them to act as
     teachers of their own isolated race. To break up the fallow
     ground, to sow the seed, and rear the tender plants of virtue in
     this degraded people, should be the wish of every heart and the
     effort of every hand. Let us establish schools, instruct the
     children, and show to the world that the mind of the African is
     not a soil where genius sickens and every virtue dies.

     When we reflect that man is a being whose own interest generally
     forms the alpha and omega, beginning and end of life, a centre
     around which every passion and affection of his heart revolves, a
     boundary beyond which he seldom ventures, we are rather
     encouraged at the progress of our cause, than deterred by the
     magnitude of the work to be yet accomplished. Have not thousands
     been liberated, and the condition of tens of thousands improved?
     We believe there is a secret fire enkindled in the public bosom
     which will never be extinguished, until liberty be given to the
     captive and freedom to the oppressed. But this glorious principle
     needs to be encouraged and kept alive by the increasing efforts
     of its friends, to show to the world that they themselves are not
     weary of well-doing. Prejudices imbibed in youth and strengthened
     by age are to be broken down, and many an objection to be
     overcome.

     In conclusion we would remark that although much censure has been
     cast upon us, we are renewedly convinced of the goodness and the
     justice of our cause. Let us exhort you to a patient continuance
     in your labours; and "the bread cast upon the waters, shall be
     found after many days."[17]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1794,
pp. 18-21.

[2] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1795,
pp. 26-31.

[3] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1796,
pp. 23-25.

[4] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1796,
p. 28.

[5] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1797,
pp. 22-25.

[6] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1798,
pp. 15-20.

[7] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1800,
pp. 20-23.

[8] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1801,
pp. 42-46.

[9] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies, 1803,
pp. 29-34.

[10] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies,
1804, pp. 35-39.

[11] Minutes of Proceedings of Tenth American Convention for the Abolition of Slavery, 1805,
pp. 26-35.

[13] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies,
1812, pp. 25-28.

[14] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies,
1827, pp. 20-22.

[16] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies,
1828, pp. 28-30.

[17] Minutes of the Proceedings of a Convention of Delegates from the Abolition Societies,
1829, pp. 19-21.

I accept the fact that Mr. Cardoza made the statement as sworn to by Prof. Miller and Mr. McKinlay,
but I must state with all of the emphasis that is possible that it is inconceivable to me how
Mr. Sumner or Mr. Stevens could give such advice that would give the leadership of the newly
enfranchised Negroes to native whites of the master class, however conservative. All rebels
were alike to Mr. Sumner and Mr. Stevens. No reference to conservative men of the master class
will be found in the speeches or writings of either one.

I have read the speeches of both men on the Reconstruction measures as published in the Congressional
Globe and I have failed to find one word uttered by either one that would lead me to believe
that they would give the advice as stated in the affidavit. Both men held radical views as
to reconstruction plans for the rebel States and were chiefly instrumental in having the Reconstruction
Acts and the 14th Amendment passed. If it had not been for their untiring and persistent efforts,
especially of Mr. Stevens, who practically dominated the House of Representatives from 1861
to the date of his death, I venture the assertion that the Reconstruction Acts and the 14th
Amendment as passed could not have been passed.

It is possible that there were Negroes in South Carolina who had never felt the lash of the
master class who were willing to curry favor with that class, regardless of the gratitude due
the Northern men, white and colored, but I do not believe that the Northern Negroes (R. B.
Elliott, Judge Wright, Judge Whipper, Henry W. Purvis, S. A. Swails, Dr. B. A. Bosemon, R.
H. Gleaves, B. F. Randolph and others) would have deserted their Northern brethren, nor do
I believe that the great men of the Republican Party (Conkling, Fessenden, Wade, Morton, Weed,
Seward, Stanton, Chase, Boutwell, Washburne, Blaine, Sherman, Schurz, Phelps, Morrill, Bingham,
Henry Wilson, Hoar and others) would have stood for the consummation of such a plan. I am sure,
from what I knew of the Negroes of South Carolina, that they would have rebelled against the
plan. If any committee went on to Washington it is possible that the members suggested the
plan to Mr. Sumner and Mr. Stevens, but for them to advise along that line, a thousand times, no.

Everything done by Mr. Sumner and Mr. Stevens was done openly and above board and if they had
given the advice as stated in the affidavit they would have had the courage of their convictions
to have stated so publicly. It was not in their nature to play the cards from under the table.

Mr. Stevens, who was the author of the Reconstruction Act and most of the Reconstruction measures,
ranking next to Alexander Hamilton as a constructive statesman, had embodied in the Act an
oath that would have precluded men of the former master class, radical or conservative, from
having anything to do with the Reconstruction legislation for the former rebel States. They
could not register; therefore, they could not vote nor hold office until all of the provisions
of the Reconstruction Acts, including the ratification of the 14th Amendment, were complied
with, and their political disabilities removed. Practically all of the "cracker" element or
"poor buckra" as designated by the Negroes could vote but the statement does not include that
element.

The Republican Party was organized in South Carolina in July, 1867, and Northern men, white
and colored, took an active part in the deliberations, R. H. Gleaves, a Northern Negro, being
the President of the convention.

The Constitutional Convention met in Charleston, January 14, 1868, the Northern men practically
dominating the proceedings, and before adjournment a State ticket was nominated. R. K. Scott,
a Northern white man, was nominated for Governor. There were other white men (Northern) on
the ticket. The Governor and Lieutenant-Governor were elected for two years and the other State
officers for four years. This would indicate that the Northern men held the situation well in hand.

The South Carolina legislature under the Constitution of 1865, refused to ratify the proposed
14th Amendment on December 20, 1866. This legislature was composed of Democrats, all of the
master class, conservative and radical, and in view of this it is incomprehensible to me how
intelligent Negroes could have thought of tendering the leadership to any men of the master
class. The conditions were such that men of the master class could not have accepted the leadership
had they so desired after repudiating the 14th Amendment.

I have read Rhodes, Dunning, Burgess, Hart, Hollis, Pike, and Schouler, on Reconstruction,
also S. W. McCall's Biography of Thaddeus Stevens, E. B. Callender's Thaddeus Stevens, the
Commoner, and E. L. Pierce's Memoirs and Letters of Charles Sumner, and cannot find anything
that would indicate that either Mr. Sumner or Mr. Stevens would give the advice as stated in
the affidavit.

This section was defeated but relative to it Mr. Stevens in a speech said:

     "The 3rd section may encounter more difference here. Among the
     people I believe it will be the most popular of all the
     provisions; it prohibits rebels from voting for members of
     Congress and electors of President until 1870. My only objection
     to it is that it is too lenient.

     I would be glad to see it extended to 1878, and to include all
     State and municipal as well as national elections."

There are two things about the advice that seem incongruous. First that intelligent Negroes
would think that any men of the master class would join hands with them, some of whom had probably
been their slaves, to govern the State. In the second place it is hard to believe that Sumner
and Stevens, men of brilliant legal minds, would give advice that could not be carried out,
even if practicable.

No man of the master class in South Carolina, however conservative, would stand for being called
a scalawag.

There were practically no Union men in South Carolina. There were a few men who opposed secession
at the time but when the ordinance of secession was passed a man who did not go with the State
was considered a traitor. South Carolina was not considered a safe place for a white man who
was opposed to secession after the ordinance was passed. This probably accounts for the statement
in the last part of the affidavit relative to the frustration of the plans.

I regard the statement in reference to Messrs. Sumner and Stevens as a reflection on the memory
of two of the greatest friends of the Negro.

History, unless it is based on facts, incontrovertible facts, is worthless.

If there are any readers of The Journal of Negro History who can produce "irrefragable evidence"
relative to this matter I would be glad if they would do so. Truth is supreme and everlasting.

Prof. R. T. Greener, now of Chicago, Harvard's first Negro graduate, and the first and only
Negro who occupied a chair in one of the old Southern universities, delivered on Public Day,
June 29, 1874, in the historic South Carolina University, a most eloquent and scholarly address
on "Charles Sumner, the Idealist, Statesman and Scholar." It made such an impression on the
members of the faculty that they requested Prof. Greener to allow them to have it published
and distributed. Professor Greener was the only Negro on the faculty. He occupied the chair
of Mental and Moral Philosophy. Professor Greener was closer to Mr. Sumner than any other colored
man, although very much younger, and enjoyed a friendship with the Senator vouchsafed to very
few white men. It is possible that he may be able to throw some light on the subject in so
far as Mr. Sumner is concerned.

Letters from scholars in this field will help us to learn the truth. A copy of a letter from
J. F. Rhodes follows:

                         RAVENSCLEFT, SEAL HARBOR, MAINE,
                                                       Sept. 27, 1920.

     HENRY A. WALLACE,

     Dear Sir:

     I have your valued favor of 23 with enclosure. It is now about
     fourteen years since I made my study of Reconstruction, and on
     some details my memory is not fresh, but I have no hesitation in
     saying that I never found anything that would lead me to believe
     that either Sumner or Stevens was in favor of the scheme
     outlined. The story told by the affidavit "does not fit into the
     situation" as Samuel R. Gardiner used to say. Nothing but
     irrefragible evidence could lead one to such a view. Your
     examination of the subject seems to have been thorough and I
     thank you for giving me the results of it.

                                       Very truly yours,
     enc. returned      Signed.                 JAMES F. RHODES.

A Copy of a Letter from Samuel W. McCall

                       24 MT. VERNON ST., September 13, 1920.

     MR. HENRY A. WALLACE,
       245 West 139th St.,
         New York, N. Y.

     Dear Sir:

     In reply to your favor of the 3rd inst., with enclosed copy of
     the affidavit concerning the position of Thaddeus Stevens and
     Charles Sumner upon the proposed policy of organization for the
     negroes, I would say that I do not remember ever having come
     across anything of the kind in my researches concerning Mr.
     Stevens, nor have I ever heard of it about Mr. Sumner.

                                   Very truly yours,
                    Signed.           SAML. W. MCCALL.

A Copy of a Letter from Hon. H. C. Lodge.

                                   NAHANT, MASS.,
                                   September 8, 1920.

     My dear Sir:

     I have received your letter of the 6th. I have never heard before
     of the point which you raise in regard to Mr. Sumner and really
     know nothing about it. As I am separated from my library, which
     is in Washington, I am sorry that I can give you no information
     about it, but if you would examine the Life of Charles Sumner by
     Edward L. Pierce, which is very elaborate and thorough, you would
     find something about it there, if anywhere.

                                   Very truly yours,
                    Signed.               H. C. LODGE.

     HENRY A. WALLACE, ESQ.,
       245 West 139th St.,
         New York, N. Y.

     As the native white men of the master class were ineligible to
     hold office until the new Constitution and the 14th Amendment
     were ratified and their political disabilities were removed, even
     had they acted in an advisory capacity to the newly enfranchised
     Negroes, the Northern men being eliminated, only Negroes and
     white men of the "cracker" element could have held office and
     have been elected delegates to the Constitutional Convention.

     There were some native white men of the "cracker" element in the
     Constitutional Convention and also in the first legislature
     elected. You will find him
     listed in "Who's Who in America."

     Dr. Burgess is the author of two books covering the Civil War and
     the Reconstruction period, The Civil War and the Constitution
     and Reconstruction and the Constitution, and evidently made a
     thorough research in collecting the data for publication.

     I regard this as a very important matter and the truth or falsity
     of the statement should be established. It is only by publicity
     that the facts can be established.

     The names of Stevens and Sumner should be imperishable to the
     Negro race and any reflection on their attitude during the
     Reconstruction period should not go unchallenged.

     A copy of letter from John W. Burgess follows:

                                             BROOKLINE, MASS.,
                                                  January 14, 1921.

     MR. HENRY A. WALLACE:

     Your favor of January 12, forwarded to me here, interests me
     highly, and I thank you most sincerely for it. I am obliged to
     reply, however, that the affidavit of Messrs Miller and McKinlay
     astonished me very much. I cannot remember to have ever read
     anything of the kind anywhere and like you, I am very skeptical
     about it. I was in the world and a student at Amherst College in
     the year 1867, and was even then collecting the material for my
     history. I am pretty sure that I should have known of anything of
     this kind had it existed. I am going to try to run this assertion
     down, as I am here among the acquaintances and relatives of
     Sumner.

                                   Very sincerely yours,
                    Signed.             JOHN W. BURGESS.

     I have written to Dr. Burgess to inform me as to the result of
     his investigation and will let you know what he reports.

                                   Yours very truly,
                                        HENRY A. WALLACE.

BOOK REVIEWS

     Rachel. By ANGELINA W. GRIMKÉ. Boston, Mass., The Cornhill
     Company, 1920. Pp. 96. Price, $1.25.

Miss Grimké's drama of Rachel is a beautiful and poetic creation. She has produced this effect
by a literary instinct which is fine and mainly cultivated. Its native vigor carries the reader
past an occasional crudity, which it would seem to be hypocritical to notice. The sweep of
passion in the drama is elemental. She has connected the story of a girl-woman with the most
woeful of earthly tragedies, namely the crime of a great nation against one of its component parts.

The feelings expressed in the drama, though elemental, are uttered in the terms of modernity.
The structure of the drama is modern, and yet there is something in the figure and movement
of Rachel herself which reminds the present writer of Antigone. We do not see Antigone before
the hour when she has chosen to meet the doom that man's law has decreed should she perform
the task that human love and religious faith have enjoined upon her. Antigone goes to the death
of her body declaring that in the Infinite there is a longer time for love than there is on earth.

But we do see Rachel before the ultimate choice has come to her. She is a gay and happy girl.
The drama proceeds to the hour when she too must choose between the issues of earthly love
and those which reach into eternity. She learns from her mother, Mrs. Loving, that ten years
before, they all lived in the South and her father and her half brother were lynched. Briefly
summarized, this is Mrs. Loving's story. As a young widow with a boy seven years old, she had
married an educated man of color. She was a person of color herself. Mr. Loving owned and edited
a paper in which he wrote on behalf of the people of color. A Negro innocent of all crime was
murdered by a mob in that region. Mr. Loving denounced the murder and the murderers in his
paper. He received an anonymous letter apparently written by an educated person, threatening
him with death, if he did not retract what he had said. In the next issue of his paper he published
an equally stern arraignment of the lynchers and their crime.

That night a dozen masked men broke into his house. Mr. Loving had a revolver. He defended
his life and his home. Mrs. Loving tried to close her eyes. She could not. She saw all that
happened in her bedroom. Four of the masked assailants fell. "They did not move any more ...
after a little while." Then she saw her husband dragged out of the room. Her older boy, George,
tried to help his stepfather. He was dragged out also. She went to the bedside of her two younger
children. They were asleep. Rachel was smiling. The mother knelt down and covered her ears.
When at last she let herself listen, she heard only the tapping of the branch of a pine tree
against the side of the house. She did not know at first that it was the tree.

She fled with her two little children to the North. Those children had never before this day
of revelation known how their father had died. The shadow of white cruelty to the body and
souls of black folks had darkened somewhat over their lives in the North, but still they had
been frolicsome and loving young creatures. Now they begin to realize the full significance
of "race prejudice."

Rachel speaks to her mother: "Then, everywhere, everywhere throughout the South, there are
hundreds of dark mothers who live in fear, terrible, suffocating fear, ... whose joy in their
babies ... is three parts pain.... The South is full of ... thousands of little boys who one
day may be, and some of whom will be lynched." "And the babies, the dear, little, helpless
babies ... have that sooner or later to look to. They will laugh and play and sing and grow
up, and perhaps be ambitious,--just for that."

"Yes, Rachel," answers her mother. The girl is one of those rare, feminine creatures whose
soul and body are framed for maternity. In one swift rush of realization and of premonition,
she comprehends all that the doom upon her race must eventually mean to her; she utters the
cry of Africa's heart in America. "It would be more merciful to strangle the little things
at birth.... This white Christian nation has set its curse upon the most beautiful, ... the
most holy thing on earth ... motherhood."

Let us consider the historic background forth from which Miss Grimké has drawn her story. How
do its incidents compare with known facts? In 1844, Massachusetts sent Judge Hoar to South
Carolina to look after the interests of Massachusetts citizens of color there. The mob spirit
showed itself so violently that this father of the future Senator was obliged to leave the
South. More careful investigation into hidden causes for lynching would doubtless disclose
more cases when educated men have been threatened or actually murdered. The rope with which
to hang Wendell Phillips was actually carried into the hall where he was to speak. And the
concerted plan had been to hang him on Boston Common.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has investigated and published
statistics showing that from 1889 to 1918 in the United States, 702 whites and 2522 blacks
have been lynched, and that 11 of these victims were white women and 50 were women and girls
of color. 6 whites and 142 Negroes were lynched for "no crime."

A few instances may well be cited. After some race riots in 1894 in which crimes had been committed
on both sides, MacBride, "a respectable Negro of Portal, Georgia, was beaten, kicked, and shot
to death for trying to defend from a whipping at the hands of a crowd of white men, his wife
who was confined with a baby three days old." No offence on the part of the wife or the three
days old baby is recorded, but the one of that helpless couple who could speak may have made
about the riots remarks which disturbed the delicate sensibilities of these southerners who
are so discriminating in their "chivalrous treatment" of women.

In 1895 a Negro in Texas was killed by a mob because he was accused of riding over a little
white girl and seriously injuring her. "Later developments proved that the mob murdered the
wrong negro." In 1899 in Louisiana "an attempt had been made to assault a white woman." Afterwards
one Michael Curry saw a large Negro wandering in a field. For no reason whatever he decided
that that man had been the assailant. Some white would-be murderers were quickly got together
and shot the black man to death. Then it was discovered that he was an escaped lunatic, whose
recent history did not square with the theory that he was the assailant.

In Georgia there was in 1911 a Negro woman described as "a good reliable servant" in her normal
condition, but who was subject to attacks of violent mania. She killed a white woman in such
an attack, as many years ago poor English Mary Lamb killed her own mother. The world knows
with what chivalry her brother Charles shielded her through life. This Negro native of Georgia
had once been adjudged to be a fit subject for an insane asylum; but the State institution
was crowded and she was not then or now taken into it. Georgia took care of her in an easier
way. Its lynchers put her into an automobile and placed a rope around her neck, fastened it
to a tree, and started the car from under her, and left her to die. No arrests followed. But
why mention that fact in this case? There are very few instances of mob murder when white murderers
have ever been arrested.

In Oklahoma in 1914, two white men assaulted a seventeen-year-old girl of color. Her screams
brought her brother to the rescue. There was a fight. He killed one of the men. The next day
a mob came to the house in search of the brother. They could not find him so they killed the
girl. In 1915 a sheriff in Georgia was murdered, and straightway five Negroes were killed.
About a year later it was learned that all five were innocent. Sometimes "race prejudice" is
given as the reason why certain Negroes were lynched. That probably means that in no such instance
had the lynched Negro committed any offence, or at most none deserving the death penalty by
any legal process.

The next historical question, which Miss Grimké's drama raises, was pertinently put to the
present writer: "Was an educated, high-toned man like Loving ever lynched?" The answer as to
probabilities is easily made. The American impulse towards mob-murder has always been strong
whenever and wherever the rise of the Negro, either free or enslaved, has been considered vitally
obnoxious to the community. In the slavery days, Northern mobs prepared often to kill William
Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, and other Abolitionists, but they were foiled every time
except when, in 1836, the Rev. Elijah P. Lovejoy, a white Northerner, was killed in Alton,
Illinois, for denouncing, in his own paper, the burning to death of a Negro in Missouri. It
was supposed, however, that the men who shot Lovejoy were Missourians and not Illinoisans.

The southern temper as to the educated Negroes was certainly voiced to a large extent, when
in the eighties, the librarian of a large library in a southern town made answer to a question
asked by a northern visitor: "Oh, no, the colored people don't come here to take out books.
We don't believe in social equality, you know." And the Negro teacher in that town answered
thus another Northerner's question: "Why don't you go there and ask for a book?" "I shouldn't
like to do that, if I am going on living here."

In 1898 there were some terrible race riots in North Carolina. Two well educated Negroes owned
and edited a small paper. Like the black Loving in Miss Grimké's drama, like the white historical
Lovejoy, sixty-two years before, they printed editorials on the side of the Negroes. They were
threatened. They fled and escaped pursuit. It is safe to assume that, had they been caught,
they would have been lynched.

About a year ago, John R. Shillady, a white man, was engaged on a peaceful mission in Texas
on behalf of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, whose agent he
was. Prominent white citizens assaulted and beat him severely. It has always been the same
story; white or black, educated or ignorant, in every part of this country the defenders of
the Negroes have been liable to the decree or the abuse of the mob.

Still fresh is the memory of that shameful day when a white mob fired the Omaha jail where
a Negro, still unconvicted of crime, was confined. He helped several of the other prisoners
to get in line to leave the prison in safety, and then went down the steps himself to the mob
which grabbed him and killed him. Meanwhile the ruffians had seized the Mayor of the town as
he was on his way to try to enforce law and order. They hanged him, but somebody cut the rope
before he was quite dead. There was strong evidence to show that the murdered Negro was innocent.

We come next to the question: What sort of men are they who make up these murderous mobs? Wendell
Phillips once said, as to the North, that he had faced many mobs between the seaboard and the
Mississippi, and that he never saw one that did not show that it was inspired if not actually
led by "respectability and what called itself education." It is harder to know exactly what
is the personnel of southern lynching parties. But a close study of known facts shows that
"respectability and what calls itself education" has countenanced, approved, and participated
in a large proportion of these orgies of horror. And the southern approval has developed in
the South a most abhorrent type of white woman who holds up her babies to see a black man cut
and burned to death. Miss Grimké's historical accuracy is unimpeachable when she allows "church
members" to lynch Loving and his stepson.

George W. Cable said to the present writer in the winter of 1888-89, "You are right, the southerners
do not want the Negroes to be educated." Miss Grimké, inferentially, dates her lynching somewhere
in the decade of the nineties. The mass of black, brown, and olive-tinted ignorance at that
time in the South, was appalling. It is appalling now--largely through the governing white
man's fault. But still there were in the South at that time and before then many colored people
who had obtained the rudiments of education and some who might be truthfully called well educated.
Some of these became known to the whole country; but there might easily have been obscure ones
like Loving scattered in many communities.

Now ordinary critics are sure to cry out against my analysis of the historical situation and
remind me of Booker Washington. They will say, "He was not lynched. He was accepted. Any Negro
like him is safe, if he behaves himself." I answer that I have no fancy for mob murder or torture
of any human being, ignorant or wise, good or bad. There are, moreover, other answers to the
riddle of that great constructive educator's career. One is creditable to the white southerners.
They are not all eager for Negro blood. There is yet another solution. Booker Washington surrendered
many of the Negro's rights to southern prejudices. The South liked that surrender. Northern
philanthropists occasionally liked it well enough to give money for purposes which would tend
to make the Negro useful in the ways the whites wanted him to be, and yet to insure him a little
intellectual comfort in his life.

To return to the direct consideration of Miss Grimké's Rachel; we see the girl, from the hour
that she learns what things are done, and may be done, in the South to the dusky sons and daughters
of America, she lives under a cloud--a sense of doom. Yet the cloud breaks now and then. She
loves so much, and especially she loves so many little children, that she cannot fail to be
happy sometimes. She also comes to love a man, and all the possibilities of marriage and motherhood
open radiantly before her. But the shadow falls denser than ever upon her. She sees, even in
the North, the grown men of her race, no matter how well educated, seldom able to get work
befitting their ability. All this sort of thing would not happen in every northern town but
every careful observer knows that such things do happen in many northern villages and cities.

Little children flock around her, drawn by the magic of her incarnated motherliness. She sees
them ill-treated by their white school mates. She has adopted a little boy, Jimmy, and she
sees him suffer. She sees a little girl, very black and ugly, but still a child, who has been
frightened almost into idiocy by white children. Finally Rachel's ears are so filled with the
sound of real wailing that her brain reels with the thought of the crying children all over
the land, and at last voices come to her from the infinite spaces. Voices of unborn babies,
the little babies who were meant to be born unto her.... They were begging her never to bring
them into earthly existence. Now, like Antigone, she makes her choice; to soothe a ghostly
pain no matter what may be her earthly doom.

Her lover leaves her. She cries after him once, as if to call him back. Then she ceases that
cry, knowing that her fate is fixed, and her vow never to be a mother on earth is irrevocable.
She begins to talk as to the pre-existent ghosts of her unborn children, and all the while
the crying of her adopted child mingles fitfully with the wailing that seems to come to her
from the caverns of the unknown regions.

The drama would probably have to be remoulded for use in the regular theatre, yet it is the
present writer's opinion that to create the part of Rachel on the stage might well allure any
actress who possesses the most delicate and passionate genius.

                                   LILLIE BUFFUM CHACE WYMAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Songs and Tales from the Dark Continent, recorded from the
     Singing and Sayings of C. Kamba Simango, Ndau Tribe, Portuguese
     East Africa and Madikane Cele, Zulu Tribe, Natal, Zululand, South
     Africa. By NATALIE CURTIS BURLIN. New York, G. Schirmer, 1921.
     Pp. 170.

This work as its title imports does not cover a wide field of investigation and it was not
done in Africa. The object of the author is to introduce Europeans and Americans to the soul
of the African, who has too long been regarded merely as an object for exploitation. Believing
that in the folk-music of a people is imaged the real soul, the author has made in this field
researches, the results of which have been herein set forth. The aim finally is to show that
the human family is near of kin and that basic emotions of love, of sorrow, of rejoicing and
of prayer, whether men be primitive or advanced, white, yellow, red or black, are the same
root-feelings planted in us all.

The book begins with a rather long introduction, discussing the geography, history, and institutions
of Africa. Much space is here given to spiritual beliefs as a stimulus to the development of
music. Then follows a discussion of song-poems and of the early music to which they were set.
The actual contents begin with a treatment of songs, tales, and proverbs of the Ndau tribe
by C. Kamba Simango. The reader, if he has found the details of the contents mentioned above
a little tiresome, will have his interest quickened again by the explanation of the Song of
the Rain Ceremony, the Spirit-Song, the Love-Song, the Dance of Girls, Children's Songs, Laboring-Songs,
Mocking-Songs, and the like. There are also such folk-tales as the Hare and the Tortoise, the
Baboon, How the Animals dug their Well, the Jackal and the Rooster, Death of the Hare, the
Legend and Song of the Daughter and the Slave, and the Sky-Maiden.

After this portion of the book comes the Songs and Tales of the Zulu Tribe, recorded from the
singing and sayings of Madikane Cele, a Zulu of royal blood. This includes such as the Song
of War, Song of Children, Dance Songs, Love Songs very much like those mentioned above. It
treats also of such folk-tales as the Creation Story. The music to which these song poems have
been set, doubtless will interest most the student of music. Along with this appear keys to
the pronunciation of the dialects and translations of some of the songs.

The book is well printed and well illustrated with the art work of the Africans portraying
in different ways another phase of African life.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Educational Adaptations. By THOMAS JESSE JONES. Phelps-Stokes
     Fund, New York, 1919. Pp. 92.

This work presents valuable history in its introduction, which consists largely of a sketch
of the life of the founder of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, Caroline Phelps Stokes. It is interesting
to note that she was a descendant of English Puritan ancestors, eminent for their ability and
Christian character. They early manifested interest in the relief of the poor and in the enlightenment
of the heathen in foreign parts. From them, therefore, came much of the assistance given to
promote the Sunday School movement, Bible and tract societies, missionary organization, the
colonization enterprise, and the abolition of slavery. With this record before her it is not
surprising, therefore, that Miss Caroline Phelps Stokes early united with the church with a
desire "to live the years that still remained with a fixed and determined purpose to do her
duty to God, regardless of how disagreeable that duty might be."

Measuring up to this ideal Miss Stokes became interested in the Negro race. She visited the
South to inspect the schools for the education of the Negro and impressed with their needs
she thereafter lavished upon them gifts which had a direct bearing upon the development of
education among these people. Among these were donations to the Haines Industrial School, Hampton,
and Tuskegee. Manifesting interest also in the local problems of the race, she undertook to
secure better housing for the poor whites and blacks in New York City and established the Phelps-Stokes
Fund for the improvement of tenement house dwelling in New York City for the poor families
of New York City and for educational purposes in the enlightenment of Negroes, both in Africa
and the United States North American Indians and deserving white students.

There follows then a brief account of how the provisions of this will have been carried out.
Next one finds set forth a plan for educational-co-operation and the scope of the work of the
committee on education which finally brought out the two-volume report of Dr. Thomas Jesse
Jones, the Educational Director of the fund. This is followed by a brief statement on Negro
education in the United States, which is a resumé of Dr. Jones's report. The more interesting
part of this volume is that which sets forth in detail the manner in which this fund is being
used by co-operation with the educational and religious agencies in the South, by giving fellowships
to students in Southern universities to stimulate research into Negro life and history, by
assisting the work of the University Race Commission on Race Questions, and that of the Southern
Publicity Committee.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The Negro Faces America. By HERBERT J. SELIGMANN, formerly
     Member of the Editorial Staffs of the New York Evening Post and
     the New Republic. New York and London, Harper and Brothers,
     1920. Pp. iv., 319. Price, $1.75 net.

"There is, in fact, no race problem in the United States." A sociological study which within
its first four pages makes this assertion must gain the reader's attention and interest at
the start. That there is no solution to the race problem is a statement heard so often in America
that it has become almost proverbial; that the solution is simple if our citizens would approach
the problem fairly is an observation made less often; but that there is no problem would seem
to be either the flippant remark of one who dabbles in sociology or the profound utterance
of a new seer.

Mr. Seligmann, nevertheless, does not hesitate either to make this assertion or to attempt
to demonstrate its truth. In "the conversational tone of the scientist," he cites the testimony
of anthropologists, the opinions of students of racial and sociological questions, the conclusions
reached by scientific surveys of rural and urban conditions, the observations of sworn eye-witnesses
and the findings of grand juries in cases of inter-racial disturbance. The conclusion to be
reached, to his mind, is that the so-called race problem is not a problem in itself, but a
"blind spot" in the eye of the American public, a "color psychosis," a "habit of thought" by
which questions of race and racial differences are connected, "frequently deliberately," with
phases of American life with which they should have nothing to do,--in fact, with every phase
of American life. This habit of thought, Mr. Seligmann says, is prevalent throughout the southern
part of this country and is spreading through the North and West. In the cities, it makes the
smallest and most natural examples of race tension "definitely subject to manipulation by political
leaders and their allies in newspaper offices," raises the rent to Negro applicants for houses,
protests against their living in certain localities, opposes the Negro in industry as he awakens
to the strategic position which he occupies and uses such opposition in the fostering of race
riots. In the rural communities of some parts of the South, it has created an "American Congo"
in which peonage is practiced openly. In the World War, it made the United States' "essential
struggle" internal rather than external, brought about the rebirth of the Ku-Klux Klan on this
side of the waters, and worked against the success of the Nation's arms abroad. In social questions
it makes sex "the distorted glass by which the Negro is presented to view." It "lays its fetters
upon science" and stifles the truths of anthropology with a blanket of myth. The spread of
the habit of thought is in many cases part of a deliberate propaganda, the chief agent of which
is the American newspaper, and "the only course for white Americans to pursue is to cultivate
thorough-going skepticism as to everything which American newspapers publish about the Negro."

Such are the conditions. Meanwhile, Mr. Seligmann continues, a "new Negro" has been rising.
His growth was not started by the War, as some think, but accelerated by it, for it was inevitable
that he should come into being. He ranges, in type, from the radical editors of The Messenger
to the "new bourgeoisie" which has learned to fight back and die, if need be, for the sake
of principle and justice. This is the type of Negro who, in spite of differences of opinion
within the race itself, is gradually working his way toward leadership; and this is the Negro
who now "faces America." "Newly emancipated from reliance upon any white savior, [he] stands
ready to make his unique contribution to what may some time become American civilization."

What is to be his future? It is Mr. Seligmann's opinion and conclusion that his future lies
largely with the forces of labor, among whom "color and the habits of thought which come from
emphasizing color distinctions must be subordinated to the need for joint consideration of
common difficulties." "It depends largely," too, "upon the emancipation of the American people
from their newspapers" and upon whether or not they will demand and obtain "systematic information
on matters concerning colored people and their relation to white people"; for a knowledge of
the truth will set the nation free from the "color psychosis" under which it now labors.

That such a book as this should have been written is in itself an indication, let us hope,
of the coming of the new day in racial relations toward which Mr. Seligmann points the way.

                                             D. A. LANE, JR.

NOTES

Houghton Mifflin & Company has published John Drinkwater's Lincoln, the World Emancipator.
This is not a biography of Lincoln but rather a type representing the ideals of the American
nation and at the same time the bonds which have attached the people of the United States to
those of England.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the Magazine of History for November-December 1917, there appeared an important letter of
Abraham Lincoln to the Mayor of New York bearing upon a proposed celebration of the Union victories
in the West during the Civil War.

       *       *       *       *       *

The article entitled "Fifty Years of Negro Citizenship," by Dr. C. G. Woodson which appeared
in the last number of The Journal of Negro History, is now being used as supplementary reading
by the Senior Class of the Law School of Howard University. This article has been reprinted.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the January number of The American Historical Review appeared a number of documents entitled:
"General M. C. Meigs on the conduct of the Civil War." In that same number is an interesting
article entitled: "A Confederate Diplomat at the Court of Napoleon III," by L. M. Sears.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Associated Publishers, a firm recently organized to publish books bearing on the Negro
will soon bring out Dr. C. G. Woodson's work on The Negro Church. This is an intensive treatise
of the development of religion among the American Negroes. The leading topics discussed are:
The Attitude of the Early Missionaries toward the Negro, the Dawn of the New Day, Pioneer Negro
Preachers, The Independent Church Movement, The Growth of the Negro Church, The Situation in
the South before the Civil War, Preachers of Versatile Genius in the North, The Civil War and
the Church, Religious Education, The Call of Politics, The Statistics of the Negro Church and
The Negro Church Socialized.

This same firm in the near future will publish also Dr. Woodson's long delayed text book to
be entitled The Negro in Our History. Because of the many upheavals in the publishing world,
it has been impossible to bring out this work at an earlier date but this firm promises the
publication of it by next fall.

The opinion of the Western World toward Africa and Africans is in the process of a very slow,
yet very tremendous, change. The distant yet ultimate development of this process will bring
about a most important revolution in the world of modern thought. It will be marked by a complete
reversal of the prevailing present-day evaluation of the history of a continent and of the
accomplishments and possibilities of a great people.

To the lay mind of the modern world, Africa is a gigantic jungle of barbarians, bamboo and
baboons, where Livingstone traveled, Rhodes prospected, and Roosevelt hunted. Furthermore,
it is only within the last twenty-five years or more that even that learned group whose profession
is the exposition and interpretation of human history has begun to modify its opinions in this
connection.

An insight into the spirit of learned opinion regarding Africa and the Africans only a comparatively
short time ago may be gained from the following article, which appeared in a Berlin journal
in 1891.[1] The article, in part, runs:

     "With regard to its Negro population, Africa in contemporary
     opinion offers no historical enigma which calls for a solution,
     because from all the information supplied by our explorers and
     ethnologists, the history of civilization proper in the continent
     begins, as far as concerns its inhabitants, only with the
     Mohammedan invasion.

     "Before the introduction of a genuine faith and a higher standard
     of culture by the Arabs, the nations had neither political
     organization nor, strictly speaking, any religion, nor any
     industrial development. None but the most primitive instincts
     determine the lives and conduct of the Negroes who lack every
     kind of ethical inspiration. Every judicial observer and critic
     of alleged African culture must once for all make up his mind to
     renounce the charm of poetry and wizardry of fairy lore, all
     those things which in other parts of the world remind us of a
     past fertile in legend and song; that is to say, must bid
     farewell to the attractions offered by the Beyond of History, by
     the hope of eventually realizing the tangible impalpable realm
     conjured up in the distance which time has veiled within its
     mists, and by the expectation of ultimately wresting some relics
     of antiquity every now and again from the lap of the earth.

     "If the soil of Africa is turned up today by the colonist's
     plough share, no ancient weapon will lie in the furrow; if the
     virgin soil be cut by a canal, its excavation will reveal no
     ancient tomb; and if the ax effects a clearing in the primeval
     forest, it will nowhere ring upon the foundations of an old world
     palace. Africa is poorer in record history than can be imagined.
     'Black Africa' is a continent which has no mystery, nor history!"

But now this view of Black Africa and its peoples so widespread and well established a generation
ago is being slowly dissipated and a new and revolutionary view of the mysterious contents
is building itself in its stead. The facts and forces bringing about this great change fall
into three main classes; they are of an historical, archaeological and ethnological character.

The real beginning of this change of opinion may be said to date from the capture of the old
African city of Benin by the British military forces in the year 1897. The economic and political
aspects of the incident do not concern us here, but from an anthropological point of view it
proved to be one of the most important incidents of the nineteenth century. For as Ling Roth,[2]
the noted traveler and ethnologist, has said, "the taking of Benin City opened up to us the
knowledge of the existence of hitherto unknown African craft, the productions of which will
hold their own among some of the best specimens of antiquity of modern times."

Many of these objects of art were carried away from Benin by the members of the invading expedition
to Europe, where they created a profound impression and astounding surprise in scientific circles
throughout the continent. C. H. Read, in a paper before the Anthropological Institute of Great
Britain and Ireland, on the "Art of Benin City," the year following their discovery, says:
"It need scarcely be said that at the first sight of these remarkable works of art we were
at once astounded at such an unexpected find."[3]

Just about this time, and continuing down to the present day, a number
of Oriental scholars began to bring out modern language translations
of the works of numerous Arab writers bearing upon African
history--chief among them being the works of El Bekri, Ibn Batuta and
Ibn Khaldoun. The most important, however, at least from one angle,
was a translation of the Tarikh es Sudan, or The History of the
Sudan, which is not the work of an Arab at all, but the joint work of
several Sudanese blacks. In its original form it was written both in
Arabic and in the Songhay languages. The book was translated into
French by M. Houdas, the eminent French professor of the Oriental
School of Languages of Paris. It is for the unconscious light
     which it sheds upon the life, manners, politics and literature of
     the country that it is valuable.

Following close upon this was the cursory but illuminating report of Une mission archeologique
au Sudan francais, headed by the soldier-ethnologist, Lieutenant Louis Desplaynes. The report,
Le Plateau Central Nigirien, Paris, 1907, brought to Europe much valuable information bearing
upon the past cultures of the practically unknown Nigerian plateau regions.

Passing over a few very important ethnological studies bearing for the most part upon present-day
cultures, we come last of all to what is in the truest sense of the word the wonderful and
astounding revelations regarding the pre-historic culture of an ancient Negro race on the West
Coast of Africa. These revelations were brought to light as the result of the publications
by Leo Frobenius of his Der Afrika Sprach in Berlin in 1913.[6] This was a popular account
of the experiences and findings of the German Inner African Exploration Expedition during its
travels in the Nigerian area for the years 1910-1912. As important as are the ethnological
and archaeological finds of this expedition, which will be considered further on, one of its
most significant features was its bold advocacy and support of an idea which has been hesitantly
advanced in a few circles ever since the study of the Benin bronzes and the Nubian monuments,
namely, the existence of a genuinely superior type of culture in Central Africa in pre-classical
and pre-Christian times.

Such, then, by way of introduction is the nature of the sources from which comes the influence
which is slowly and haltingly, yet surely, bringing about the change in current opinion regarding
"Black Africa" as is evidenced by the timely but hitherto unsuccessful effort of Harvard University
to treat the records of the African peoples scientifically in keeping with the standard set
in the first volume of the Varia Africana. This paper, however, as may be inferred from its
title, does not undertake to survey the facts covering the whole field, but restricts itself
to materials of a more or less archaeological character, that is, to the architecture, tombs
and the arts and crafts of a small section of this ancient land.

There are two reasons for approaching this whole subject in this way. First, the materials
and facts herewith considered are in the main of a tangible and undisputed character; and,
secondly, it is the study of architecture and the arts and crafts of this particular locality
that has been the premier force in changing the old opinion of the world towards Africa. Let
us then turn now for a somewhat detailed study of these materials.

As has been said in the introduction, it was the revelation incident to the taking of Benin
by the British that marks the real beginning of a serious and scientific interest in the past
cultures of Central Africa. The incident started a movement of both a forward and a backward
reach. On the one hand, it led to subsequent searchings which ultimately resulted in the finding
of additional evidences of culture in that territory, as well as to a reconsideration of the
value of the reports of the travelers and adventurers on the West Coast from the fifteenth
century on.[7] The combined result has been the bringing to light of objects and evidences
of achievement which place the ancient and medieval African on a plane with, and in many cases
above, his contemporaries in Europe and America.

The reports of earlier adventurers and travelers in the Benin territory previous to the British
conquest gave us pictures of towns and buildings which, all things considered, are of no mean
order, and which reflect the existence of a social and cultural development of a very long
standing. The earliest recorded description of Benin City, according to Ling Roth,[8] is that
of an old Dutch chronicler who wrote as "D. R." and whose works first appeared in Germany in
1604. His description is as follows:

     "At first the town seems very large; when one enters it one comes
     at once into a broad street which appears to be seven or eight
     times broader than the Warme street in Amsterdam; this extends
     straight out, and when one has walked a quarter of an hour along
     it, he still does not see the end of the street.... At the gate
     at which one enters there is a very high bulwark, very thick and
     strongly made, with a very deep, broad ditch, but it was dry and
     full of high trees. This ditch extends a good way, but we do not
     know whether it extends around the town or not. That gate is a
     well-made gate, made of wood, to be shut according to their
     methods, and watch is always kept there. Outside this gate there
     is a large suburb.... One sees a great many lanes and streets on
     both sides, which also extend far and straight, but one can not
     see the end of them on account of their great extent.

     "The houses in this town stand in good order, one close to the
     other, like houses in Holland. Houses in which well-to-do people,
     such as gentlemen, dwell, have two or three steps to go up, and
     in front have an ante-court where one may sit, which court or
     gallery is cleaned every morning by their servants, and straw
     mats spread for sitting on. Their rooms or apartments with (the
     court) are four square, having a roof all round, which, however,
     does not join in the middle, but is left open, so that the wind,
     rain and daylight may enter. In these houses they live and eat,
     but they have specially built little houses for cooking, as well
     as other huts and rooms.... The king's court is very large, being
     many square places within, surrounded by courts wherein watch is
     always kept. This king's court is so large that the end is not to
     be seen, and when one thinks he has come to the end, one sees
     through a gateway other places or courts, and one sees many, many
     stables."

Another description of Benin which seems to corroborate this former description, and which
was itself substantiated by later and more recent reports, appeared in a book[9] published
by one Dapper, a Dutchman, in Amsterdam in 1668. It seems that Dapper himself was never at
Benin, but received most of his information about the country from the writings of a Sam Blomert,
who, Dapper says, lived for many years in Africa.[10] As Ling Roth points out, subsequent reports
and the recent finds seem to bear out the truth of his account.

According to Dapper,

     "the town comprising the queen's court is about five or six
     [Dutch] miles in circumference, or, leaving out the court, three
     miles inside the gates. It is protected at one side by a wall ten
     feet high, made of double stockades of big trees tied to each
     other by cross beams, fastened crosswise and stuffed up with red
     clay solidly put together.... The town possesses several gates,
     eight or nine feet in height, and five feet in width, with doors
     made of a single piece of timber hanging, or turning on a peg
     like the peasants' fences here in this country. [Holland.]

     "The king's court is square and stands at the right-hand side as
     one enters the town by the gate of Gotton, and is certainly as
     large as the town of Harlem, and entirely surrounded by a special
     wall like that which encircles the town. It is divided into many
     magnificent palaces, houses and apartments for courtiers and
     comprises beautiful long and square galleries about as large as
     the Exchange at Amsterdam, but one larger than another, resting
     on wooden pillars from top to bottom, covered with cast copper on
     which are engraved the pictures of their war exploits and
     battles, and are kept very clean. Most palaces and houses are
     covered with palm leaves instead of square pieces of wood
     [shingles], and every roof is decorated with a small turret,
     ending in a small point on which birds are standing, these birds
     being cast in copper, and having outspread wings cleverly made
     after living models.

     "The town has thirty very straight and broad streets, each of
     them about one hundred and twenty feet wide or about as wide as
     the Heeren or Keezersgracht [canals] at Amsterdam from one row of
     houses to the other, from which branch out many side streets,
     also broad, but less so than the main streets.

     "The houses are built alongside the street in good order, the one
     close to the other as here in this country [Holland], adorned
     with gables and steps and roofs made of palm or banana leaves, or
     leaves from other trees; they are not higher than a 'stadie,' but
     usually broad with long galleries inside, especially so in the
     case of the houses of the nobility, and divided into many rooms,
     which are separated by walls made of red clay, very well erected,
     and they can make and keep them as shiny and smooth by washing
     and rubbing as any wall in Holland can be made with chalk, and
     they are like mirrors. The upper storys are made of the same sort
     of clay; moreover, every house is provided with a well for a
     supply of fresh water."

Before going any further with this description, it may be well to state that the description
of the nature and character of the finish of the walls given here is substantiated by accounts
of travelers in these parts as late as the end of the nineteenth century. Captain Boisragon,
one of the two survivors of the ill-fated white expedition to Benin in 1897, in comparing the
houses of Benin with those of another nearby city, says that "the chief of Gwatto's house was
very much superior; the walls, which were very thick, being polished till they were nearly
as smooth and shiny as glass."[11] Mr. Cyrl Punch, who traveled in Yorubaland in the eighties
of the nineteenth century, gives us a hint of the widespread practice of this sort of wall
polishing even so late as forty-five years ago, and furnishes us with a very interesting account
of how the polished effect was produced. "For giving a high polish to the clay walls in Yorubaland,"
says Punch, "the leaves of the Moringa pterygosperinia are mashed up and rubbed over the clay."
Of a certain house in the town Brohemi he continues to say that "the walls were better polished
than any in Benin. They were like marble."[12]

In comparing the earlier descriptions of Benin and other African cities in this general area
with the descriptions of later writers, an important fact stands out, namely, that these cities
had already reached their highest point of development before the coming of the white man;
for in a description of Benin by another Dutchman, Nyendall, which appeared in 1704, we read
the following: "Formerly the buildings in this village were very thick and very close together,
and in a manner it was over-populated, which is yet visible from the ruins of the half remaining
houses; but at present the houses stand like poor men's corn, widely apart from each other."
His description otherwise is very similar to those previously given, yet his account does bring
out an additional point which is worthy of note, namely, the reason for the use of clay in
building. "The houses are large and handsome," he writes, "with clay walls; for there is not
a stone in the whole country as large as a man's fist."[13] In the same connection, Legraing,
who visited Benin in 1787, also hints at the reason for the extensive use of clay and wood
as the principal structural materials. Around Benin, according to this observer, "the vestiges
of an old earthen wall are still to be seen; the wall could hardly have been built of any other
material, as we did not see a single stone in the whole journey up."[14]

The recent reports by Leo Frobenius on his findings further up into the interior, aside from
giving us a picture of present-day conditions of cities which he believes to date back to pre-classical
and pre-Christian times, also show the absence or scarcity of durable producing materials.
But, most important of all, the report indicates the grandeur of African cities in ancient
times. In discussing the buildings in the present-day city of Ilife, which he believes was
the capital or center of an ancient African theocracy, he says: "There can be no doubt that
the entire plan and style of architecture gives the city of Ilife a pleasantly dignified character.
If, however, I am to summarize all the life and activities of this city of palms and divinities,
I cannot, indeed, speak of anything great and sublime, because that lies buried too deep beneath
the soil and debris of centuries, yet I can say that it has a dreamy respectability."

But speaking specifically upon the building which now serves as the palace of the great religious
headman of Yorubaland, he says: "The edifice rests upon foundations not of sun dried, but of
fine burnt brick." Taken as a whole, the present-day structure conveys "the impression of grandeur
in decay." "Such," he says, "is a sketch of the city whose effect is heightened by the noble
ruins of the palace of this Holiness and the consciousness of its traditional past."[15]

We may now turn for a brief consideration of those strange and most interesting structures
of the Sudan, the tombs of their ancient dead. All through the Sudan, and especially in Nigeria,
are to be found great conical dome-shaped structures of baked clay ranging in size from sixteen
feet in height and sixty-six feet in basal diameter to seventy feet in height and two hundred
and twenty feet in basal diameter.[15a] These structures were first mentioned by Lieutenant
Louis Desplaynes in his report of Une Mission archeologique au Sudan francais,[16] but the
first close study of these tombs was made by Frobenius in 1911. Frobenius tells us that these
tombs are of three main types: first, a small size; second, an intermediate size; and third,
a large size. This last type, he tells us, was an extraordinary large construction, averaging
about seventy feet in height and six hundred and fifty to seven hundred feet in basal circumference.
The external structure is connected with an underground structure composed of a number of subterranean
chambers and compartments, extending in every direction of the compass, sufficient to accommodate
the remains of a great number of notables and royal personages.

Frobenius states, regarding one of these subterranean chambers which he explored, that it contained
a dome which was paneled and strengthened with wood from the borassus palm and the whole plastered
with a sort of prepared clay.[17] Frobenius also believes that the external parts of the tombs,
that is, the mound proper--was made layer by layer. Each layer of clay was first thoroughly
worked, moulded, and baked. This process was repeated time and time again, until the mound
was completed.

The veteran Egyptologist, Flinders Petrie, in the great mass of evidence adduced by him to
show the African origin of the spirit and substratum of early dynastic Egyptian culture, points
out that there is a very close connection between the subterranean structures of these tombs
and many of those of the Egyptian pyramids, the inference being that the idea of the pyramids
very probably had its origin in Central Africa.

As interesting and important as are these structures in this connection, they, like those previously
mentioned and those yet to be described, are of interest in another direction; they bespeak
the sometime existence here of a mighty people with a glorious past, now lying sleeping within
the bosom of the earth, the silent witnesses of a world that has perished.

Beginning about three hundred years ago, and going back to an unknown period, it is evident
from the above comments and extracts that the cultural life of the Negro on the West Coast
of Africa, especially from the point of view of his architectural and tomb-building proclivities,
was of a much higher type than anything he has produced since his contact with the European
during the last four hundred years. The quality and quantity of work accomplished by these
ancient black builders is especially notable when it is remembered that the type of material
which they were forced to use, and the climatic conditions surrounding them, were of a most
discouraging sort. The manner in which these very serious difficulties were overcome is itself
a durable testimony of the ingenuity and resourcefulness of the African builder and craftsman
of earlier days. One can hardly avoid the speculation of what might have been the nature of
their accomplishments, had they been provided with a more suitable and durable building material.

The more we study the cultural products of these people, the more pregnant such a speculation
becomes; for in those fields of endeavor where they were less handicapped, or better, perhaps,
where they were in a better position to overcome the destroying influence of the climate and
the lack of suitable structural materials, we find the African artisan and the craftsman producing
a wealth of objects of art of a very superior type. Some of these objects are notable not only
in that they are of a superior type judged according to the standards of a so-called primitive
art, but they compare, so far as technique and artistic qualities are concerned, very favorably
with much of the best of ancient civilized art. The last generation has brought to light evidence
which shows that the Negroes of the West Coast of Africa were producing hundreds and even perhaps
thousands of years ago objects of art which, from the point of view of technique and artistic
perfection, equal some of the best works of the ancient Greeks and Romans, and compares favorably
with the best masterpieces of the Solons of the Italian Rennaissance.

As was above stated, it has been the study of the technique, originality and artistic qualities
as expressed in these recently found and comparatively little known African objects that has
been the premier force in producing the change of opinion regarding the capabilities of African
folk and the cultural history of the great continent. In this connection, however, it is perhaps
well again to remind one of the fact that this change of opinion is not yet public in its scope,
but is rather restricted to academic and especially to anthropological circles.

For the sake of clearness, the whole collection of African arts and crafts may be classified
under three main heads, namely, carved works, glass and porcelain objects, including terra
cottas, and metal castings. It will, of course, be impossible to treat exhaustively of the
objects in any one of these fields. A considerable amount of selection will, therefore, be
necessary; and in the interest of fairness it may be stated at the outset that the treatment
and descriptions for the most part will be of the finest and best specimens so far obtained.
In doing this, of course, we follow the general and most usual method of those engaged in making
cultural studies. There is, however, an additional and very special reason for such a procedure
in this case. It is the opinion of Dalton, Read, Ling Roth and Frobenius--perhaps the leading
authorities on the whole subject--that the best objects are likewise the oldest objects; and
since this purports to be a study of the ancient and medieval cultures, our purpose in following
the above method of selection is doubly clear.

Among the large number of carved works discovered at Benin by the British Punitive Expedition
are a large number of huge and splendidly carved elephant tusks. These objects have been carefully
studied by Ling Roth, and the following is an abbreviation of his description of them:[18]

     "The tusks vary in length up to six feet and over, and are in
     themselves magnificent specimens of ivory, speaking eloquently of
     the peaceful life which the elephants must once have lived, in
     order to produce such tusks. The ornamentation to which the large
     tusks have been subjected while preserving their form is in two
     grades: the one is severely plain, and the other extremely ornate
     and decorative in effect. The former consists of a series of
     three to five incised bands of a plait pattern, a design very
     common in West Africa, placed at intervals, the bands
     diminishing in width as they approach the tip of the tusk. The
     embellishment is consequently plain, but elegant, and does not
     call for further remark.

     "The other grade consists in covering the whole tusk with a
     succession of boldly carved grotesque figures--human, animal, and
     symbolic--giving the tusk a rich embroidered-like look, the thick
     ends being finished off with a suitable diamond pattern belt and
     the tip finished with an equally appropriate series of carvings
     in the shape of a mascle studded foolscap, or a capsule supported
     by elongated cowries. The back appears to be cut to a uniform
     depth, and in spite of the multiplicity of figures there is
     neither overcrowding nor overloading."

There is another piece of carved ivory which appears to Ling Roth to be a piece of symbolic
sculpture and which was probably used as a scepter. Roth says of this:

     "The execution of the detail is rough--more rugged perhaps than
     the carved tusks--nevertheless there is considerable originality
     of design, and it is especially remarkable as showing an earlier
     stage of the application of hammered metal to carved work."[19]

Among the carved works in ivory are many splendidly carved armlets. Ling Roth gives a description
of one which is particularly interesting as showing the ingenuity of the Negro artisan.

     "While at first sight it appears to depict only one carved
     armlet, it is really two armlets, one being carved inside the
     other out of the same piece of ivory with only the space of a
     knife-blade thickness between them. When moved, the two armlets
     rattle against each other. The ornamentation consists of four
     figures: a king or chief belonging to the outer armlet, and four
     sets of two hands placed between the human figures belonging to
     the inner armlet. The whole shows skill and ingenuity on the part
     of the artist who planned this difficult piece of work, so
     remarkable from a technical point of view. But although the
     beauty of design is not its chief attraction, it is nevertheless
     a piece of work which can not fail to be admired from the
     artistic standpoint also."

Another object of interest described by Ling Roth is a highly ornate fragment on an article
which originally had the shape of a brass sistrum, consisting of two bell forms, a large and
a small one, grafted onto one handle. Its delicate treatment is described as differing somewhat
from the rugged workmanship of the objects above described, but it is said to err in its excessive
elaboration.

     "Yet there are good points," says Roth, "such as the blending of
     the two bell forms into the common handle, the happy tapering of
     the ornamentation into the Normian bird's beak; the increasing
     size of the side cups as they rise to correspond to the enlarged
     opening of the bell form; the truthfulness to nature in an
     essential like the bust of the Negro, all of which betoken a fair
     amount of artistic feeling. The craftsman who probably designed
     execution of the smallest detail."[20]

It is the opinion of collectors that there existed in Benin at one time a very large amount
of carved objects in wood, but, unfortunately, most of these must have been destroyed when
the British burned the city in 1897. Very little of such work, therefore, has survived. What
it may have been like cannot be definitely said, yet some hint might be gained from a few specimens
that escaped the fire, though these specimens are probably modern in their execution.

One such object is a wooden casket in the form of a bullock's head, with two hands jutting
out of the forehead and grasping the horns of the animal. The casket is supported by a pedestal
of appropriate size and is decorated to represent cowries. "The ears of the bullock's head
are covered with embossed brass work, and there are strips of brass of scroll pattern running
down the bullock's face and fastened on with small brass staples."[21]

In this connection it might be mentioned that there are some carved coconut shell in which
the Negro carver often expressed his ingenuity. These represent in their carving a varied number
of forms, including human beings, animals and plants. The interest in these carvings, as Roth
tells us, "lies in their demonstration of the adaptability of the native to perform creditably
on a material very different from ivory. Fair ingenuity is displayed in the manner in which
the figures are grouped on a confined surface without overcrowding. In fact, the feature of
the work is the careful distribution and general freedom of treatment. The details of the carvings
are throughout in low relief, remarkably clean and neat and of a uniform depth."[22]

So far no carved objects in stone, granite, marble, or the like, have come to view in the immediate
Benin territory. This, of course, is natural enough when it is remembered, as has been pointed
out, that there are no such materials to be found in the country. In 1911, however, Leo Frobenius
discovered in his excavations of Ilife, a few hundred miles farther back in the interior, a
number of carved stone objects which are interesting from several points of view. In the first
place, might be considered the circumstance and position in which these objects were found.
Many of these objects were dug up out of the earth at a depth of from eighteen to twenty feet,
but several were found set up in tombs and isolated spots in the African forest. These forests
are described by Frobenius as being sacred groves where the present-day natives worship their
gods. Frobenius testifies that there were an extraordinary number and variety of these stone
figures, and that they represent very different periods. Some show a coarse type of workmanship,
but others represent a very superior grade of work. The following is, in the main, Frobenius's
description of these objects:

     "When, on leaving the main road, we arrived at the first small
     palm plantation, a group of quite coarse little stone pillars
     about waist high came into view. They are angular, roundish, and
     at all events roughly hewn or chipped off, absolutely bare of any
     detail. Going forward we came to another, rather more to the
     left. Here there is a wilderness of weeds, a mass of roof battens
     and the straw of a collapsed thatch, surmounted by a few stakes
     and climbers amidst which rises a stone image. This is about
     thirty-two inches high, roughly executed and defaced. It has one
     chain around its neck and another hangs over an apron skirt down
     to the hands folded over the stomach. On its left side it has a
     peculiar hanger, something like the tassels of a Houssa
     sword."[23]

In another nearby spot he describes the find of a smaller statue:

     "When I first made its acquaintance," he writes, "it was housed
     in a badly damaged little hut whose thatch almost hid it. It is a
     granite figure about thirty-six inches high above ground level. I
     could not find out whether its feet were covered by the earth. It
     is exactly like the other figure, with the hands over the belly,
     aproned and ornately tasseled on its left. It has armlets and a
     ruff-like ornament round its neck. The interesting part of the
     statuette is most decidedly its head, which had been knocked off
     and only insecurely replaced, when I first set eyes on it. The
     thick-lipped, broad-nosed face is negroid in type.... The
     treatment of the hair in this granite head is especially of the
     very greatest interest. The hair is represented by little iron
     pegs inserted in small holes; here, for the first time, we come
     upon this singular use of iron, which metal, as we shall see,
     played a quite extraordinary part in the realm of Ilifian
     antiquities."[24]

Under these same circumstances, he continues,

     "a group of all kinds of well-preserved relics is met with in a
     carelessly constructed hut in the fourth and last enclosure.
     Symmetrically placed there is a stone crocodile to the right and
     left in front of a stone block artificially rounded and set on
     end. These vary but little in shape between a drop and an egg or
     onion, always inclining toward the first, so that I would like to
     call them 'drop stones,' ... before such of these drop stones,
     the more oval of which is twenty-four, and the more conical one
     nineteen and a quarter inches high, there is a crocodile. The
     larger and better finished of the two is twenty-four and three
     eighths and the other twenty-one and a quarter inches long."[25]

Frobenius further states that he had seen several other similar objects, made both of quartz
granite and of other kinds of stone. In another sacred grove he reports finding several other
very interesting stone objects:

     "Here within a small space surrounded by a low wall there is a
     ring of holy stones," he writes, "some of them very valuable.
     Firstly, there is a twenty-nine and a half inch long sandstone
     block of no very remarkable general aspect, weather-worn and
     abraded, but ending in a jagged crowned head of some such animal
     as a fish. The second is a block of quartz, like the drum of a
     column, damaged in places by exposure, but still recognizable as
     a fine piece of antique work."

Finally, we come to what Frobenius calls the stone "stools," of which "there are quite a number."
According to Frobenius, these stools very much resemble the stools made and used by the present-day
Negroes and remind one of "negro stools with carriers." He says further:

     "These are stumpy columns from fourteen to twenty-four inches
     high. Sometimes the flat surfaces have a ring between them and
     sometimes not. Both quartz and granite examples are characterized
     by extraordinary uniformity of shape and surface polish. Their
     single handles at the side, mostly broken off, is the strangest
     part."

Frobenius comments especially upon the tendency of these objects to "monumental form." In this
connection he says:

     "Following the lines of everything taught us in the development
     of historical art, I can not well help drawing the inference that
     this idea of working in stone was introduced by a people who felt
     themselves impelled to monumental expression."[26]

The origin and variety of these carved objects in stone offer us a very interesting point,
yet one may reasonably infer from his other statements that here in the Ilife, as in the Benin
region, granite, quartz and hard stone materials are in their natural state very, very limited,
if not altogether absent. Like Benin, Ilife is in the Niger delta region, and, as Frobenius
points, is of rather a swampy character. It is a geological fact that hard stone in any quantity
is seldom to be found in such regions. In addition to this, Frobenius, as was pointed out above,
states that the foundations of the ancient buildings are of burnt brick rather than sun-dried
brick or stone. It is very reasonable to suppose that hard stone, had it been in any way common
to this area, would certainly have been used for building operations. One seems more or less
justified in concluding, then, that the materials out of which the above-described objects
were made were not of local origin. This circumstance is very important, for it seems to indicate
that either these materials were imported from a distance and fashioned on the spot or else
they were imported already in their finished form. If the first view be accepted, it would
seem in a measure to account, on the one hand, for the obvious lack of skill on the part of
the African artist as expressed in the archaic human and animal forms; but, on the other hand,
it would, as is seen in the case of the "stools" mentioned above, seem to indicate a rather
remarkable liberty and grace on the part of the Negro artist, implying his ability to become
a master even when working with a comparatively unfamiliar material. For as Frobenius says,
"the dexterity acquired in treating quartz and granite is very considerable. There is a quantity
of eminently beautiful examples of such skill in this country."[27]

If we accept the latter view, namely, that the objects were imported ready made, it would seem
to indicate that there must have been a rather extensive trade with some other Negro folk having
a rather advanced form of culture, for it is obviously apparent from the distinctively Negro
features of the statuettes and the undoubted Negro influence as expressed in the style of the
"stools" that these objects must have been the products of a Negro people. A slight hint for
such an origin may be gleaned from the finding by Frobenius of the handle of an antique cup,
of which he testifies that the carved figure thereon resembles very much the effigy of the
Ethiopian or Nubian god Bes,[28] and which, according to Budge,[29] is held to have been of
Sudanese origin.

Such, then, is an abbreviated account of the carved works which during the last generation
have been discovered to have been produced by black folk on the West Coast of Africa in ancient
and medieval times.

We shall next turn for a brief consideration to the glass and porcelain objects, including
terra cottas. So far as can be determined, very little or no work of importance which can be
classed under this head had come from the Benin country. By stretching the category, however,
one might include under this head the finely polished marble-like walls which have been described
in connection with the houses of the Benin territory. One might also include under this head
the benches which were seen in the Benin houses in former times. The typical character of these
benches may be noted from the brief description given by Captain Jas. Fawckner,[30] who visited
the country in 1825. After describing the houses, he says that "in the center is a bench formed
of brown clay, which by frequent rubbing with a piece of coconut shell and wet cloths has received
a polish, and, when dry, looks like marble."

A few hundred miles to the West, in the Gold Coast region, is the home of the famous "aggry"
beads. These beads, the manufacture of which is now a lost art, were found in the possession
of natives by the earliest European explorers.[31] The beads are of two kinds, a plain type
and a variegated. "The plain aggry beads," say Bowdich, who made a careful study of them, "are
blue, yellow, green or a dull red; the variegated consist of many colors and shades; the variegated
strata of the aggry bead are so firmly united and so imperceptibly blended that the perfection
seems superior to art. Some resemble mosaic work; the surface of others is covered with flowers
and regular patterns so very minute and the shades so delicately softened one into the other
and into the ground of the bead that nothing but the finest touch of the pen could equal them.
The agate parts disclose flowers and patterns deep in the body of the bead and thin shafts
of opaque colors running from the center to the surface. The coloring matter of the blue bead
has been proved by experiment to be iron; that of the yellow, without doubt, is lead and antimony,
with a trifling quantity of copper, though this latter is not essential to the production of
the color. The generality of these beads appears to be produced from clays colored in thin
layers, afterwards twisted together into a spiral form, and then cut across; also from different
colored clays raked together without blending. How the flowers and delicate patterns on the
body and on the surface of the rarer beads have been produced cannot be so well explained."[32]

In the earlier days, when much less was known of the technical and artistic ability of the
African, the origin of these beads was quite a problem. The fact that similar beads were sometimes
found in tombs in North Africa and in the graves and tombs of ancient Egypt and India led some
to suppose them of probable Phoenician origin. Such a theory implies the existence of a rather
extensive trade between the ancient Phoenicians and the ancient Africans of the West Coast.
This may have been the case, for from Herodotus, and from the fragments of Hanno from the Temple
of Milcarth in Carthage, we learn that frequent voyages were made beyond the Straits of Gibraltar
and to the Gold Coast hundreds of years before Christ by Phoenicians as well as the Egyptians.
This theory would, however, imply an act of conservation and preservation of minute objects
over a period of thousands of years on the part of African "savages," which, to say the least,
would be very remarkable. It is likely, in the light of recent research upon the subject, that
the Phoenician theory will have to be made with caution; for, as will be pointed out, there
is now available much evidence which seems to indicate that these beads were of indigenous
African origin.

Further up in the interior of the Ilifian region a number of important glass objects have been
found. Frobenius, commenting on the find of this character made as a result of his excavation
in the neighborhood of the ancient "Holy City," testifies that "these furnish proof that at
some remote era glass was made and moulded in this very land, and that the nation which here
of old held rule was brilliant exponents of apt dexterity in the production of terra cotta
images."[33] The spot where the objects were excavated is "located about a mile or more to
the north of Ilife and undoubtedly marks the impression of an ancient cemetery." It is located
today in what is a vast forest, and "is about half a mile broad, did hide and still in fact
hides quite unique treasure." Frobenius in describing the excavations here, planned by himself
and executed under the direction of Martins, the engineer of the expedition, gives the following
account:

     "We went down some eighteen feet or so, near the ground water,
     and can report as follows, viz., the top layer consisted of about
     two and a half feet of extraordinary hard and compacted soil.
     Even in this we turned up several glazed potsherds.... At about
     six and a half feet we found pottery. But the actual adit
     averaged about eighteen feet below the surface. For we came upon
     charcoal and ash heaps at this depth. This thoroughly verified
     the native statements as to the finding of either pearl jars or
     ashes so far down.[34] The old excavations made by the
     inhabitants reached from twelve to twenty-four feet or
     thereabouts."

Frobenius, in describing the objects discovered by this expedition, says: "The substance of
the pots is a sort of cement or stoneware. They are from fourteen to twenty four inches high
and from three and three quarters to sixteen inches in diameter; they are generally uniform.
The aperture is at the under and upper ends of the walls from about three quarters to one and
a quarter inches thick. The upper of these portions is covered with an irregular glaze, varying
from one thirty sixth to one eighteenth of an inch thick inside. They were similarly glazed
outside as the edges proved, but this has perished. A convexly carved plate or cupola in which
there are three or four holes for finger holds seem to have been lids. Inside the pots are
glass beads, rings, irregular bits of glass tubing, and always at the bottom a mass of fused
bits of glass from one eighth to one quarter of an inch in depth. The colors of the beads and
the glaze on the jars vary from light green, greenish white, dark red, brown and blue." To
appreciate the real significance of these objects in view of the inability to see the originals
themselves, one should make a special effort to see the drawings and photographs of these objects
as contained in Frobenius's Der Afrika Sprach, or its English translation, The Voice of Africa.
Accompanying these illustrations there are a few brief descriptions of the more important objects.
There is, for instance, "a specimen which seems to be the mouth or collar of an urn. On its
inner edge there is a mouth below, an ear on either side, and a pair of eyes.... It looks as
if this might have been a portion of a tube which might have been put over a grave, through
which offerings might have been made to the dead beneath."[36] This explanation for the original
purpose of this object is very plausible, as a study of the burial customs of various parts
of Africa will show.

Frobenius is of the opinion that the dress of these ancient peoples "must have been very rich
and handsome." A terra cotta truss brought to light by these excavations is described as showing
a "noteworthy completeness. In the holes scattered on the breast plate and shoulder piece there
were formerly inserted metal or iron pegs as ornaments. The end of the garment which is thrown
over the shoulder is patterned like the old textures,"[37] which Frobenius believed had reached
a very high degree of development. "Among our terra cottas," continues Frobenius, "some may
have served as pedestals for the heads or busts." He describes a peculiar "fragment belonging
possibly to some sort of vessel; on one side is seen an owl, whose hooked beak is badly damaged;
on the other a complete figure holding a weapon." Like the beautifully carved stone handle
mentioned above, Frobenius testifies that this object also resembles the ancient Sudanese and
Ethiopian god Bes,[37a] and hints of an ancient connection between these two countries.

Another object, not dug up in the cemetery, but in the town of Ilife proper, is a "fired,"
square thin plaque showing a crocodile in the shape of the letter S, so shaped that it seems
to finish in a tightly bound head. The details are not easily seen, but the position of the
legs seems to indicate that the beast is bound there with cords and is meant to seem fastened
to the surface, with a sort of hood over the eyes ending in a string work and tassels as if
in a cunningly made basket. Frobenius and his associates were of the opinion that this object
is that of a tile which in ages past formed part of the decorative design of one of the ancient
buildings.[38]

Passing over a list of similar objects, we finally come to the world-famed terra cotta heads.
Like the other terra cotta objects, these are fully illustrated in the above-named work. They
are of "infinite variety" and "every observer may well see that they are patently portraits."
They represent many varieties of Central Africans, from the restricted minority group of prognathous
flat-nosed, thick-lipped type of the coast to the more delicate and sharper featured types
to which the majority of Africans belong. In other words, these terra cottas represent almost
every African type suggesting, therefore, a civil life very cosmopolitan in character and the
probable existence of a jus commercii as well as a jus connubii, which in turn argues well
for the existence of a demogenic form of association of a very great age. Frobenius testifies
that these heads are of "great beauty and amazing to those who inspect them." Commenting upon
these terra cottas in general, he says: "I do not think that there can be the least doubt but
that we are faced with a local form of art whose perfection is absolutely astounding," and
commenting upon one particular head which he calls mia after the native term for it, he concludes
that it "must be regarded as the most important object hitherto found on African ground and
as the finest work of art so far discovered outside the narrow Nile valley, on the further
side of the old Roman jurisdiction."[39]

We may now turn for a brief study of what is beyond all doubt the most important division of
the whole group of African arts and crafts--the metal castings. As was mentioned in the Introduction,
the conquest of the city of Benin by the British in 1897 opened up to the knowledge of the
white world a hitherto unknown field of Negro art, "the productions of which," according to
Ling Roth, "will hold their own among some of the finest specimens of antiquity or modern times."[40]
The excavations of Frobenius's expedition discovered in the heart of this part of Negro-land,
aside from the terra cottas already described, metal works which are characterized as being
"indeed like the finest Roman examples."[41]

The amount and variety of these works are tremendous and they have been carefully studied and
reported upon by various writers. The following extracts, taken from the most noted among them,
will give some idea of the nature and character of these objects. The chief feature of the
personal ornaments, according to Ling Roth, is their variety. Another feature is their play
upon patterns. For example, the same pattern which is seen in one bracelet is so adapted and
reduced in another as to produce a very different effect. Spirals as a basis of design are
not uncommon. "And they are often so twisted and interwoven that they produce quite a novel
effect." Some of the bracelets are furnished with studs set with agate or coral. Some gold-plated
ornaments have been found, among them a "bracelet formed by a double-headed snake grasping
between its jaws a decapitated human head and a snake about four inches long." Ling Roth, commenting
upon the workmanship of these smaller objects, says that generally speaking it is good, but
"it is not as a rule equal to that of the large Benin metal workings; this is no doubt due
to the greater difficulty presented by the smaller surfaces on which the artisans have had
to work."[42]

Speaking of what he calls a curious class of objects, namely, the long armlets and leglets
"so fashionable in West Africa," Ling Roth declares them to be "elegantly finished productions
and good examples of Benin art.... They are provided with loops for hawk bills, which turn
up everywhere in unexpected places through Benin metal work." In describing one such bracelet,
which, however, is of modern make, he says that it is "interesting as exhibiting a conventionalized
leopard's face on the top, as well as a European's face on the bottom, likewise developing
into a form of ornament ... the fertility in design is in all of these forms manifest indeed;
it is a feature in the art of Benin natives which any of our jewelers might do well to copy."[43]

Passing to a consideration of some of the larger forms of metal casting, we have the following
description by Ling Roth of a bronze vase "whose ornamentation consists of four mask-like faces
in high relief, two plain and two ribbed, set alternately; above each of the ribbed masks there
is a flat spiral on which rests an ornamental triangle on its apex. Between the heads are placed
bands of very plain guilloche, each band consisting of alternate three or four rows each, above
and below concentric circles of imitation (coral?) bead work, all in low relief, and helping
to fill in the ground. The whole arrangement forms a combination of decidedly artistic effect.
There is no enchasing or punching of any sort, nor is there much ornamentation, but what ornamentation
there is, is designed in such a spirited manner as to produce a result which hardly can be
surpassed by Europeans at the present day."[44]

As another example of this same sort of thing, we may take the description of another object,
a curious metal casket brought to Europe by a member of the Punitive Expedition. In design,
according to Ling Roth, this casket "is bold and artistic; the high relief of the bizarre face
and the zigzag conventionalized serpents and tadpoles being well thrown up by enchasing of
the ground work. The proportions are all good, and this is especially the case with an enchasing
of the enclosed lines." Ling Roth says that the relief portions are somewhat roughly cast,
and the enchasing sometimes irregular, but, "on the other hand," he continues, "the great variety
of objects exhibited without any over-crowding, the general grouping, the tones background,
the real beauty" of the major portion of the design show that the artist was "a man of considerable
taste, judged not only as a Negro, but as a man of culture."[45]

Another object which Ling Roth mentions as being especially remarkable for its technique is
that which he has ventured to call a sistrum. It consists of what appears to be two brass bell
bodies, a larger and a smaller welded together at the tapering ends. On the face of the larger
bell is represented the now well-known group of a king or chief with a sort of Persian head-dress,
with a harpoon-like projection at the top. He is supported on both sides by similarly dressed
individuals; somewhat above the level of his head the chief is flanked by two tablets, each
upheld by a hand emerging from the background. The background is enchased with an elegant foliated
design somewhat Bornean in character. The back of the bell, with a few exceptions, has a similar
relief. After describing the smaller bell, which is of a somewhat different character, Ling
Roth concluded with these rather significant remarks:

     "Taken as a whole the Sistrum is an elegant piece of
     workmanship. The thoroughness of the details of execution is
     worthy of the Japanese, even the inaccessible and almost hidden
     portion of the smaller bell being enchased with a pattern."[46]

As excellent as are these types of castings, the finest works of these Negro sculptors were
achieved, not in works of this character, but, according to critics like Dalton, Read, and
Ling Roth, rather in works that are done in the round.[47] Dalton, speaking of a bronze head
of a Negro girl now in the British Museum, declares it to be "the most artistic and perfect
of all the castings in the round." Ling Roth, speaking of the same head, declares it to be
the "finest piece of cast bronze art obtained from Benin."

A find by Frobenius during his excavations at Ilife seems to support these conclusions. For
of all the objects found by him at that site, his most important discovery he declares to be
a bronze head, which he thinks is that of an ancient African god. The head wears a diadem with
a staff. From the very tip of the diadem staff to the chin the object measures thirty-one and
a quarter inches. "It is cast in what we call cere perdue, or hollow cast, and is indeed finely
chased, suggesting the finest Roman examples. The setting of the lips, the shape of the ears,
the contour of the face, all prove, if separately examined, the perfection of a work of true
art, which the whole of it obviously is."[48]

Some attention may now be given to the method by which these objects were made and to the question
of their age and origin. In a report before the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain
and Ireland in February, 1898,[49] Mr. C. H. Read and Mr. O. M. Dalton described these objects
as having been cast in moulds. They testified as to the difficulties attendant upon such methods
in sculpture, announcing that they had "been overcome with the certainty and skill which only
long practice of a familiar art could produce. This alone goes to prove that at whatever period
the objects were made they were produced by a people long acquainted with the art of casting
metals."[50]

Their report continues: "The method by which the objects were produced can only be that known
as cere perdue process. By no other is it conceivable that so much extravagant relief and elaborately
undercut detail could be represented with success. The process may be described in a very few
words. The model is first made in wax, and every part of its surface is then covered with fine
clay; the whole work is then hidden in a mass of clay. An outlet is then made for the wax to
escape, and the mass is then heated until the wax has melted out, leaving, of course, a mould
of exactly the design of the wax in the original state. The metal is then poured in and fills
every hollow space left by the wax." Read and Dalton, as well as Ling Roth, testify that when
casting objects in the round, or any object for that matter, where there was considerable internal
bulk or projections, a core of sand was used as a base and the wax and clay respectively placed
over this. This method, aside from insuring lightness, also saved considerable metal. Ling
Roth, in this connection, points out that "the ancient Etruscans and Greeks made their castings
solid without any sand core, while the Beni were evidently adept in the superior method practiced
by the ancient Egyptians."[51] Read and Dalton likewise conclude that "this cere perdue process
is that by which many of the finest Italian bronzes of the best period were produced."[52]
Thus it is that we find the Negroes of West Africa, as Dalton concludes, "using with familiarity
and success a complicated method which satisfied the fastidious eye of the best artists of
the Italian Rennaissance."[53]

Such, then, is an abbreviated account of the arts and crafts which have been discovered in
a restricted part of West Africa during the last generation. Whether the results be considered
large or small, it should be remembered that they represent the outcome of but a small amount
of scientific investigation, only one expedition of scientific qualifications having so far
operated in these parts. What the future holds or may bring forth yet remains to be seen.

There has been, and still is, considerable difference of opinion regarding the origin and antiquity
of the culture which these objects represent. Some hold it to be of great age and of a more
or less indigenous origin, while others are of the opinion that it is comparatively modern
and that it was introduced, some say, by the Arabs and Mohammedans, while others believe it
was brought by the Portuguese, at varying dates down to and including the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries.

Dealing with the latter view first, one hardly considers it unfair to say that there has never
been any serious evidence for such opinion. The main reason for ascribing this culture to the
Arab or Portuguese origin was due, on the one hand, to a failure to study seriously the culture
itself, and, on the other hand, a kind of a priori conception of the very limited potentialities
of Negro peoples. Basing their opinion upon the popular conception that the Negro represented
the lowest form of human development, it was thought by early critics of the culture that the
Negro could not have produced objects of art capable of holding their own among the highest
forms of human creations; and so in the exigencies of the situation the theories of Arab or
Portuguese origin were brought to the fore. The advance of ethnological science during the
last generation, the serious study of the Benin objects in an objective sense, and finally
the results of Frobenius's Expedition, all combined, have not only weakened the theories of
a modern Arab and Portuguese origin, but have practically destroyed them altogether.

Let us take a summary view of some of this evidence against these theories. In the first place,
there might be mentioned the changing opinion regarding the supposed mental difference between
so-called cultured and primitive peoples. As a result of many scientific studies, and some
scientific expeditions both in Africa and Oceania, it is now practically the belief in scientific
circles that there is no potential difference in quality of mind of the various races or of
widely differentiated cultural groups. This removes at the outset the belief heretofore held
as to the inherent limited capacity of the Negro peoples. According to this modern point of
view, then, the objects above described could have been created by native blacks of Central Africa.

As a next step, Ling Roth has pointed out that as there is hardly a traveler from Africa who
has not recorded the art of iron smelting among the Negro or Bantu tribes, "we may accept as
a fact that the art of smelting iron is a very old one in Africa." Not only does the recent
evidence point out that iron smelting per se was an old and widespread practice in Africa,
but, in addition, reports a similar method of metal working as discovered in the Benin country
to have been in vogue in other and widely separated parts of Africa. For example, Bowditch[54]
describes a method of casting on the Volta River, where a wood core was used instead of sand,
while Robinson[55] states that at Kano "there are on sale swords, spears and many other objects
made of native wrought iron. The article desired is first formed in wax and from this clay
model is made into which the molten iron can be poured."[56]

This, it would seem, reduces considerably the need for postulating modern influence so far
as the method is concerned. And even if modern influence were responsible, it could hardly
have been Arab or Portuguese, for up to date no such objects as above described have been found
among the ruins of the Islamic civilization. And on the other hand, as Ling Roth has said,
"we are still quite in the dark as to the existence of any such high-class art in the Iberian
peninsula at the end of the fifteenth century; and we know that there was not much of this
art in the rest of Europe."[57] The only serious evidence, if even it might be so called, which
was ever advanced as indicating Portuguese origin for this art was the fact that on some of
the plaques from Benin there were found Portuguese heads or figures. But this, instead of indicating
a Portuguese origin, gives, when carefully studied, reasonable evidence to the contrary.

Let us make a brief study of one of these objects. An object described by Ling Roth[58] as
the "head of the staff or wand of offices" may be used as an illustration. The design is "that
of a leopard supporting a column on its back. The uppermost portion of this staff head consists
of a band of engraved basket work patterns with grained open ground. This is followed by a
band of fish-scale patterns ornamented at the lower corners of contact pinched indents. On
this band there is an upper series of ornaments in relief. The upper series consists of four
faces; that on the front being probably that of a Negro and that on the back that of a European.
Both faces are boldly and clearly executed, while the two faces on either side are of Europeans,
both of them flat and poorly executed, and in profile with the mouth curiously twisted into
the full face. The European figures on either side of the leopard in their flatness and general
crudeness are quite out of keeping with the rest of the work. "Yet," he says, "one cannot help
admiring the boldness with which the leopard has been modelled, or the firmness with which
its claws grasp the ground; while the vigorous way in which the tail is made to support the
back of the column should be remarked. Equally admirable are the suitable proportions of the
bands of ornament. The upper band is thoroughly subdued so that the faces next to it are brought
more prominently into relief."

It is evident that in every feature, excepting the European faces, this object is obviously
the product of a master. How, then, are we to account for the crude and archaic appearance
of the European figures? It would seem either that it was done purposely out of disrespect
for the European or else it was the result of an unfamiliarity with the subject on the part
of the artist. If the African artist had been indebted to the European for his apprenticeship,
it is highly improbable that either of the conditions present here would have been likely to occur.

In this same connection a statement by Ling Roth testifies that "the Beni almost invariably
give their fellow Africans sturdy lower limbs while they do not do so invariably to Europeans.
The latter of a certain type are made to stand on well planted feet, while such Europeans as
are in any way about to use their guns have their legs bent and puny."

That the work of the African artist, when dealing with Europeans, was necessarily of an inferior
grade must not be assumed to be the rule, however, though it does seem from the evidence that
there is more unaccountable archaicness in objects of this character than in any others. Ling
Roth, speaking in this same connection, calls attention to the fact that Benin was not discovered
by the Portuguese until about 1472, and that by the middle of the sixteenth century (e.g.,
1550) we have an almost perfect figure of a European, presumably made by a native. "It is inconceivable,"
he concludes, "that an introduced art could have developed at so rapid a rate that in seventy
years, probably less, for this art would hardly have been introduced the first day, such a
high pitch of excellence could have been attained by the natives."

If the Portuguese theory is untenable, the Arabic or Islamic theory is equally, if not more,
unacceptable. In the first place, as has already been pointed out, Arabic or Islamic art shows
absolutely nothing in art approaching objects of the Benin type. Furthermore, Islam itself
did not appear in Central Africa until the eleventh century, and then only in the northern
and western parts of the Sudan. And it was, moreover, not until the fourteenth century that
it made itself a real part of the life of the northern country, and not until the eighteenth
that its influence spread into Yorubaland. And then its influence was only felt in the back
country.[59]

Furthermore, according to Frobenius and Ling Roth, respectively, both the Ilifian region and
the Benin territory remain until the present-day non-Mohammedan in character. This would seem
to indicate Islamic influence in those countries where most of these objects above described
were found has been necessarily very slight; yet such a culture as the above objects represent
was unquestionably a very integral part of the life of the country and could not possibly have
been due to such an influence. Furthermore, if additional evidence were needed to disprove
the theory, it might be cited that it is a well-known fact that one of the fundamental tenets
of the Islamic faith is the proscription of the representation of the human form in its art
in any whatsoever. And since the height of the material side of this culture was reached in
this kind of art, it appears doubtful that this culture could have arisen from such a source.

It would seem, therefore, that this culture at least antedates the coming of the Portuguese
and the Arab influence in this part of West Africa. To state definitely its place of origin,
or the exact date of its origin, is at present, however, impossible, because of the relatively
small amount of scientific work and study carried out in this part of the Continent. But in
spite of this sufficient evidence is already available to warrant the opinion on the part of
all the critics previously referred to that this culture is essentially African in origin and
very, very old. Frobenius is convinced that it is at least pre-classical and pre-Christian
in its beginning.

Such, then, and until now, is the character of the material culture of this restricted spot
of Black Africa. What the future will bring let the future tell, but of this let the present
be convinced: that at least this part of Black Africa is not "beyond the reach of interest
in the history of the world; always in a state of apathy asleep to progress and dreaming its
day away." And of this may the present be ever sure that Black Africa is not "a continent which
has no mystery, nor history!"

                                             WILLIAM LEO HANSBERRY.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Quoted by Leo Frobenius, Voice of Africa, Vol. 1, p. 1.

[2] H. Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 217.

[3] Jour. Anthrop. Inst., February, 1898, p. 371.

[4] F. L. Lugard, A Tropical Dependency, p. 154.

[5] Lugard, A Tropical Dependency, p. 154.

[6] Translated into English by Rudolf Blind. Published by Hutchinson and Company, London, 1913.

[7] Old Dutch and Portuguese manuscripts have been collected and studied by Ling Roth and the
findings appear in his Great Benin quoted in this paper.

[8] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 157.

[9] Dr. Olfert Dapper, "Nauwkeurige. Beschrijvenge der Afrikansche Geweslen." (As listed and
quoted by Ling Roth, in Great Benin.)

[10] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 2.

[11] The Benin Massacre, p. 81.

[12] Quoted by Roth in Great Benin, p. 161.

[13] Ibid., p. 162.

[14] Ibid., p. 163.

[15] Leo Frobenius, Voice of Africa, Vol. 1, pp. 21-25.

[16] Le Plateau Central Nigerien, Paris, 1907.

[17] Frobenius, Voice of Africa, Vol. 1, p. 25.

[18] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 193.

[19] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 196.

[20] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 205.

[21] Ibid., p. 209.

[22] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 209.

[23] Frobenius, Voice of Africa, Vol. 1, p. 297.

[24] Ibid.

[25] Ibid., p. 302.

[26] Frobenius, The Voice of Africa, Vol. 1, p. 305.

[27] Frobenius, The Voice of Africa, p. 305.

[28] Ibid., p. 105.

[29] E. A. W. Budge, The Egyptian Sudan, Vol. 1, p. 526.

[30] Fawckner, Travels on the Coast of Benin, London, 1837, p. 32.

[31] A. B. Ellis, A History of the Gold Coast, p. 9.

[32] Bowdich, Mission to Coomassee, p. 218. Quoted by Ellis.

[33] Frobenius, The Voice of Africa.

[34] It was such reports by the natives and the nature of the objects which they claimed to
have found at this place that led Frobenius to excavate here. See pages 306-307 of his Voice
of Africa, Vol. 1.

[35] Frobenius, The Voice of Africa, p. 309.

[36] Ibid., p. 313.

[37] Frobenius, The Voice of Africa, p. 313.

[37a] Frobenius, The Voice of Africa, p. 313.

[38] Ibid., p. 313.

[39] Frobenius, The Voice of Africa, p. 313.

[40] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 217.

[41] Frobenius, Voice of Africa, p. 310.

[42] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 31.

[43] Ibid., p. 33.

[44] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 225.

[45] Ibid., p. 223.

[46] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 223.

[47] See an article by Dalton and Read in the Journal Anthrop. Inst., February, 1898, p. 372;
also Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 216.

[48] Frobenius, The Voice of Africa, Vol. 1, p. 310.

[49] "Works of art from Benin City," Jour. Anthrop. Inst., 1898, p. 321.

[50] Ibid.

[51] Ling Roth, Great Benin, p. 226.

[52] Jour. Anthrop. Inst., 1898, p. 372.

[53] Ibid., p. 272.

[54] Mission to Ashanti, pp. 311-312.

[55] Haussaland, p. 118.

[56] Quoted by Ling Roth, in Great Benin, p. 232.

[57] Ibid., p. 232.

[58] Ibid., p. 219.

[59] Lugard, A Tropical Dependency.

THE NEGRO IN BRITISH SOUTH AFRICA.[1]

It was in the United States Senate, during the summer of 1919, that there was in progress a
debate concerning the ratification of the Treaty of Peace with Germany and the consequent ratification
of the covenant of the League of Nations. Speaking to this question the words of Senator William
Edgar Borah of Idaho were, in substance, these: "The President of the United States has said
that if we fail to ratify the covenant of the League of Nations we will 'break the heart of
the world.' ... But, sir, failure to ratify this covenant will not break the heart of China,
which constitutes a third of the world; it will not break the heart of India; it will not break
the hearts of the natives of the South African Republics."

How could the Senator from Idaho state so confidently that the failure of the League of Nations,
under which Great Britain retained her rôle as protector of British South Africa, would not
be a source of grief to the natives of the republics thus protected? What is the status, political,
economic and social, of these people? For what do they stand on the African continent? How
have they withstood the characteristic onslaught of British colonization and imperialism? What
does "the autonomous development of small nations" mean to them? Any reasonable attempt to
answer questions of this nature necessitates a review, however brief it may be, of the history
of South African colonization by the English and of its relation to the native.

British South Africa, which occupies the entire southern horn of the African continent, from
the southern coast to the Zambesi River, and from the Indian Ocean on the east to the Atlantic
on the west, has a population of about 6,500,000 people, fully five-sixths of whom are of Negro
extraction, the other one-sixth being of European--British and Boer. It is a "southern black
belt" in every sense of the term, and its Negro or Negroid inhabitants belong to the subdivision
of the race to which ethnologists have given the name "Bantu," a native African word meaning
"the people." Their origin is unknown, and no authentic history of their racial and tribal
movements is available. All that is known of their past is what has been gleaned by surmise
and deduction from the condition in which they were found by missionaries and traders making
their way into South Africa. A nomadic, patriarchally governed people--polygamists, ancestor-worshipers,
tillers of the soil, sheep-raisers, raiders upon neighboring tribes--such were the primitive
Bantu. Let the reader substitute "Bantu" for "Germani" in Tacitus's classic description, or
for "Britons" in any accurate portrayal of the manners and customs of the early inhabitants
of the British Isles, and he will catch the true spirit of life as it was among the primitive
Bantu before the advent of the European missionary and trader.

The missionary, first as civilizer and educator, later as protagonist of the political rights
of the Bantu, has been a potent factor in their development. "To the Bantu, perhaps more than
to any other people," says Mr. S. M. Molema, himself a member of that race, "the missionaries
have stood for civilization, Christianization and education."[2] Niggardly and inadequate governmental
appropriations for common schools have been supplemented by missionary funds, and in many cases
missionary funds alone have supported and are still supporting native schools. "In short, every
educated member of the Bantu race, no matter how great or small his education may be, is directly
or indirectly a product of the mission school."[3] This fact should be borne in mind whenever
one considers the relations which exist between the native and the government. The Bantu feel
that the missionary, and not the government, is responsible for their enlightenment, and it
is to the missionary that their gratitude is poured out.

What has been the attitude of the other class of Dutch and British newcomers, of the trader
and colonist group, toward the natives whom they found living under native law and custom?
Some will call it a credit, others a discredit, to the European regime that more than a century
and a half passed before any inroads were made upon native independence and sovereignty. Members
of the Dutch East India Company, under Jan van Riebeek, landed on the Cape of Good Hope as
early as 1652; the British occupied the Cape in 1806, but it was not until 1846 that any portion
of the South African territory came under British control. Before this time the Boer and Briton
had been bent almost solely upon the establishment of amicable and successful trade relations
with the natives. The Boer had come to the Cape to find an ocean port for his vessels, and
while it is true that wars were waged between Boer and Bantu for the duration of a century,
the natives were only driven inland and no attempt was made to establish European sovereignty
over them.

In 1806, however, the British obtained final control of the Cape, and in 1846 put an end to
their former policy of "hands off" by making a British province, called Kaffraria, of all the
country lying between the Kei and the Keiskama Rivers. In 1865 this province was formally annexed
to and incorporated in the English state, called Cape Colony, which had been set up on the
Cape. From this time colony after colony was formed, annexed and incorporated by both British
and Boers, the latter of whom had marched northward in "the Great Trek" of 1836. The Boers
formed the Republic of Natal in 1838, but moved out in 1842, and Natal was annexed to the British
Cape Colony in 1844. The Boers, continuing northward, next set up Transvaal and the Orange
Free State. The constitution of the latter bears the date 1854, and of the former 1858.

Cape Colony, Natal, Transvaal and the Orange Free State, then, are the South African States
which were set up by British and Boer--now five-sixths Negro and one-sixth European in population.
An examination of the constitutions and laws of these republics, as they appear on the statute
books and in practice, reveals that the relationship between European and native has not been
the same in all of the states.

CAPE COLONY

Cape Colony, farthest south and the oldest of the four states, was founded upon the principle
of political equality of all inhabitants, black and white. Districts were under the control
of native boards elected by popular vote and sending representatives to the Grand Council.
Black and white alike shared the privilege of franchise. Such social distinctions as were made
were personal, not sanctioned by law.

NATAL

Natal is likewise a British colony, but from the first has adopted a policy toward the native
entirely different from that of Cape Colony. Politically shrewd, she does not flatly deny the
right of the native to vote, but by carefully worded legal phraseology so limits the voting
class that, in effect, her policy is "No votes for natives." Under date of August 24, 1865,
appears a law "disqualifying certain natives from exercising electoral franchise" (the italics
are in all cases ours). The following extract is taken from this law:

     "Be it therefore enacted by the Lieutenant-Governor of the Colony
     of Natal, etc., as follows:

     "1. Every male native, resident in this Colony, or having the
     necessary property qualifications therein, whether subject to the
     operation of the native laws, customs and usages in force in this
     Colony or exempted therefrom save as in this law provided, shall
     be disqualified from becoming a duly registered elector, and
     shall not be entitled to vote at the election of a member of the
     Legislative Council for any electoral district of the Colony of
     Natal."[5]

Certain natives, however, may vote. The conditions of their voting are these:

     "2. Any male native inhabitant of this Colony who shall show to
     the satisfaction of the Lieutenant-Governor that he has been
     resident in this Colony for a period of twelve years, ... and who
     shall possess the requisite property qualifications, and shall
     have been exempted from the operation of Native Law for a period
     of seven years, and who shall produce to the Lieutenant-Governor
     a certificate signed by three duly qualified electors of
     European origin ... a statement to the effect that the Justice
     or Magistrate endorsing said certificate has no reason to doubt
     the truth of said certificate, ... shall be entitled to petition
     the Lieutenant-Governor of Natal for a certificate to entitle
     him to be registered as a duly qualified elector....

     "5. The Lieutenant-Governor may, at his discretion, grant or
     refuse to any native applying in manner aforesaid for such
     certificate entitling him to be registered as a duly qualified
     elector...."[6]

This franchise law was amended in 1863, as follows:

     "6. No person belonging to a class which is placed by special
     legislation under the jurisdiction of Special Courts, or is
     subject to special laws and tribunals, shall be entitled to be
     placed on the Voters' List...."[7]

When it is understood that special laws for natives, and for natives only, are actually a part
of the Natal Code, the effect of this amendment may be seen.

TRANSVAAL AND THE ORANGE FREE STATE

The two republics founded by the Boers have at least the virtue of frankness in their make-up;
for, without the circumlocution of their neighbors in Natal, they flatly and expressly withhold
from the native all rights of citizenship. The following extracts from Transvaal law are sufficient
evidence of this fact:

From the Grondwet (or Constitution) of Transvaal (February, 1858):

     "9. The people desire to permit no equality between coloured and
     white inhabitants, either in church or state.

     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     "31. ... No coloured person or half-castes shall be admitted to
     our meetings."

From a law of June 12, 1876:

     "No person not regarded as belonging to the white population of
     the South African Republic shall be enrolled as a burgher
     possessing the franchise according to Article 9 of the
     Grondwet."[8]

A resolution of the Volksraad, June 18, 1885, runs thus:

     "159. When a male person has been recognized as a burgher of this
     Republic, his wife shall thereby also be recognized and remain a
     burgheress of this Republic.

     "All coloured people are excluded from this provision, and (in
     accordance with the Grondwet) they may never be given or granted
     rights of burghership...."

So much for Transvaal. The Constitution of the Orange Free State, adopted April 10, 1854, contains
a provision restricting the right of suffrage by incorporating throughout the law the term
all white persons. In short, the Boer plainly and bluntly disdains to use the diplomatic phraseology
of the British statesman. He shuts the door of hope in the native's face, without apology or
equivocation.

THE UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA

Such was the state of affairs in 1910, Cape Colony granting absolute citizenship to all inhabitants,
Natal cleverly refusing it to natives, Transvaal and the Orange Free State flatly withholding
it. In 1910, however, long-continued propaganda in favor of bringing the Boer and British states
together, to be thenceforth under a common government, bore fruit, and the four republics united
to form the Union of South Africa.

The day of the passage of the act of union (called the South Africa Act) was an ill one for
the South African native. Cape Colony, the one benevolent and fair-minded state, could not
help but be over-ruled by the three states whose policy toward the native was one of oppression
and political non-representation. Hence the South Africa Act (1909) contains the following
provisions:

     "IV.--(26) The qualifications of a senator shall be as
     follows--He must . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     be a British subject of European descent.

     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     36. ... the qualifications of parliamentary voters, as existing in
     the several colonies, at the establishment of the Union, shall be
     the qualifications necessary to entitle persons in the
     corresponding provinces to vote for the election of members of
     the House of Assembly.

     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

     44. The qualifications of a member of the House of Assembly shall
     be as follows--He must . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
     be a British subject of European descent."[9]

In other words, no native can be a member of the South African Parliament. Even if the natives
of Cape Colony, who have the right of franchise under section 36 above; for they had it "at
the establishment of the Union"--even if they should elect one of their number to represent
them, such duly elected person could not be seated. Under the laws of the Union, then, the
Cape Colony right of franchise has been nullified and "the Bantu and coloured people in the
Provinces of Natal, Transvaal and Orange Free State are unrepresented in the Union Parliament,
and those of the Cape Province are but indirectly represented. The five million coloured peoples
in the Union have no direct representation, and the one million, five hundred thousand white
people have all the representation and say."[10]

Now, although the natives are not eligible for election to the South African Parliament, they
have a deliberative body, known as the South African Native National Congress, to which native
representatives are sent from all districts. With no legislative authority, however, this body
can only discuss legislative measures which have been proposed before the South African Parliament
when such measures affect the natives, and it may use "all available constitutional methods"
for or against the proposed measures. But of what avail to protest against a law when the persons
to whom the protest must be made are those who have enacted the law? An appeal to the British
government would be useless, for the British government has declared that the Union of South
Africa is "self-governing."

Such, in brief, is the political status of the Negro in British South Africa, and the government
of Great Britain, having set up "self-governing South Africa," has thus far refused to come
to the rescue of the natives. As a member of the British Parliament said during the debate
on the Union Bill, "it [the proposal for unification] is the unification of the white races
to disfranchise the coloured races, and not to promote union between all races in South Africa."
The passage of the Union Bill sounded the political death knell of the South African native.

His economic condition is equally as disheartening. When the Union was set up, native employees
of the government in the railway, post office, telegraph and civil service systems were discharged
in large numbers and their places were given to Europeans. Enforced labor of natives is statutory
in Natal, and a tax upon natives, from which they are exempted upon certification that they
have worked for a certain number of months during the year, is levied throughout Cape Colony.
The most iniquitous feature of the economic status of the native South African, however, is
that which resulted from the passage, in 1913, of the Natives' Land Act "to take effective
measures to restrict the purchase and lease of land by natives" by setting apart certain areas
in which natives were not permitted to acquire land. It assigned approximately 21,500,000 acres
of land to the 5,000,000 natives, reserving 275,000,000 acres for the 1,500,000 white inhabitants.
Natives who were living within the area set aside for white inhabitants had to sell their grain
and stock and either move their families to an area assigned to natives or hire themselves
out to white men. This condition has existed, moreover, since 1913. Recently, however, the
Natives' Land Act has been declared to be without effect, because its provisions conflict with
those of the original South Africa Act; but, as Mr. Molema remarks, the South Africa Act is
easily amended. There is nothing in the past record of the Union to indicate that an amendment
to cover the Natives' Land Act will not be incorporated in the Constitution, thus making the
natives' serfdom permanent.

Since the native South African is a political and economic nonentity, it is not surprising
to note that, socially, he is on one side of a great gulf fixed between him and his white neighbors.
The South African native is indeed a social outcast. Portions of the following extract, describing
social relations in South Africa, should ring familiarly in American ears:

     "The peculiar colour-prejudice of South Africa ... finds
     expression everywhere--in the streets, in the public buildings,
     in the public conveyances, in the press, nay, in the church
     itself. Thus, if a black man were to try to get into an hotel,
     let his education be what it will, he would be refused admission;
     but supposing he did manage to enter somehow, if he appeared at
     table, all the whites would leave it.... All over South Africa
     whites will not mix with blacks in railway compartments, tramcars
     or post-carts....

     "Bantu children and European children are provided with separate
     schools.

     "... On that lavatory you see written 'Gentlemen,' and there
     only white men may go. On that other lavatory you see written
     'Amadoda' (men), and this is meant for black men.

     "One would expect that the distinction would not go the length of
     the church, but it does so with sober earnestness....

     "The average white man in South Africa would never think of
     shaking hands with a black man. The ordinary terms of courtesy
     are purposely avoided by him, and such a prefix as 'Mr.' or
     'Mrs.' in association with a black man's or woman's name never
     escapes his lips....

     "'A single case of marriage between white and black by Christian
     rites will fill the newspapers with columns of indignant protest,
     but illicit intercourse, even permanent concubinage, will pass
     unnoticed.'"[11]

The American Negro, it may be said, habitually thinks of himself as the most unfortunate of
God's creatures, but his South African brother is still more unfortunate. Separate schools,
separate churches, separate waiting-rooms, "jim crow cars"--with these the American Negro is
familiar. With few exceptions, however, he may work independently, unlike the South African
native, and at his own calling. He may acquire as much property as he can pay for. If he will
"go North" for his education, he may sit at the feet of the best scholars his country produces.
Direct representation in state legislative bodies is not unknown to him, and direct representation
from some districts to the National Congress seems to be at hand. The trend of the American
Negro is upward, but the South African native remains on an unchanging plane of misery and
oppression. For the American Negro, in spite of discrimination, lynching and riot, the star
of hope shines with ever-increasing luster, but its beams, at the present time, seem scarcely
to reach his South African brother. The British protectorate of self-governing South Africa
has not been a boon to the South African native, for the home government has abandoned him
to the hands of his oppressors.

                                             D. A. LANE, JR.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] The facts concerning South Africa herein given are obtained from select constitutional
documents in the appendix of The Bantu, by S. M. Molema. This book was published by W. Green
and Son, Ltd., Edinburgh, 1920.

[2] Molema, The Bantu, p. 220.

[3] Ibid., p. 237.

[4] Molema, The Bantu, p. 241.

[5] Molema, The Bantu (appendix), p. 378.

[6] Ibid.

[7] Ibid., p. 378.

[8] Molema, The Bantu, p. 368.

[9] Molema, The Bantu (appendix), p. 384.

[10] Molema, The Bantu, pp. 245-246.

[11] Molema, The Bantu, pp. 264-266.

THE BAPTISM OF SLAVES IN PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND

Somewhat early in the history of Christianity the thought became manifest that it was at least
questionable for one to hold a fellow-Christian in slavery. This went so far that at length
it became "fireside law" that the baptism of a pagan slave ipso facto effected his emancipation.
There was no foundation for this view in positive law, but it appears from time to time in
non-legal and quasi-legal writings.

For example, The Mirror of Justice, written in Norman French in Plantagenet times, about the
end of the thirteenth century, has it: "Serfs devenent francs en plusours maneres, ascuns par
baptesme sicom est de ceux Sarrazins qe sont pris de Christiens ou achatez e amenes par de
sa la meer de Grece e tenent cum lur serfs ..."; i.e., "Slaves become free in various ways--some
by baptism, as is the case with those Saracens who are captured by Christians or purchased
and brought from beyond the Sea of Greece and held as their slaves." The Mirror, while received
as high authority even by so learned and capable a lawyer as Sir Edward Coke, Lord Chief Justice
of England, is now quite discredited, the latest editor, Sir Frederick Maitland, going so far
as to say of the author, "The right to lie he exercises unblushingly."

Nevertheless the book, while nearly, if not quite, worthless as an authority as to what the
law actually was, is very valuable as showing what an intelligent layman at the time thought
it was. The fear that baptism set a slave free was undoubtedly present among both the French
and the English planters in America, including the West Indies; and this fear had much to do
with their determined objection to missionary effort among the slave population. The Code Noir
relieved the fears of the French in this regard; but I find no legislation on the matter in
the English Settlements until 1781.

Prince Edward Island (formerly the Island of St. John) had a number of slaves, as had the other
British North American Colonies; and in 1781 the Legislature of the Province passed an act
respecting them (21 George III, c. 15 (P. E. I.)). This act, with the others passed in the
same session, was transmitted by Governor Walter Patterson to the Home Government in a dispatch,
March 1, 1781, to Lord Stormont (Earl of Mansfield), in which he says: "There will be no need
to trouble your Lordship with more than the titles of the above-recited acts to show the reasons
which induced me to consent to their becoming laws." From a perusal of the act it will at once
be seen that the statute went far beyond the title and fixed the status of slavery upon "all
Negro and Mulatto servants" then on the island, or thereafter to be imported (being slaves),
and provided that they should continue to be slaves until freed by the owner. The act reads:

     "AN ACT declaring that baptism of slaves shall not exempt them
     from bondage.

     "WHEREAS some Doubts have arisen whether Slaves by becoming
     Christians, or being admitted to Baptism, should, by Virtue
     thereof, be made free:

     "1. Be it therefore enacted by the Governor, Council and
     Assembly, That all Slaves, whether Negroes or Mulattos, residing
     at present on this Island, or that may hereafter be imported or
     brought therein, shall be deemed Slaves, notwithstanding his, her
     or their Conversion to Christianity; nor shall the Act of Baptism
     performed on any such Negro or Mulatto alter his, her or their
     Condition.

     "2. And be it further enacted, That all Negro and Mulatto
     Servants who are now on this Island, or may hereafter be imported
     or brought therein (being Slaves), shall continue such, unless
     freed by his, her or their respective Owners.

     "3. And be it further enacted by the Authority aforesaid, That
     all Children born of Women Slaves shall belong to and be the
     property of the Masters or Mistresses of such Slaves."

This statute had absolutely no effect to stay the evolution of a strong public opinion against
the institution of slavery. The latest recorded sale of a slave was in 1802, and slavery gradually
died out as a fact, although it was possible in law until the Imperial Act of 1833, freeing
all slaves under the British flag.

Before the culminating emancipation act, however, the Provincial Legislature had repealed the
obnoxious statute of 1781. The act of 1825, 5 George IV, c. 7 (P. E. I.), reads:

     "AN ACT, to repeal an Act, made and passed in the twenty-first
     year of His late Majesty's Reign, intituled 'An Act declaring
     that BAPTISM OF SLAVES shall not exempt them from BONDAGE.'

     "WHEREAS by the aforesaid Act Slavery is sanctioned and permitted
     within this Island, and it is highly necessary that an Act so
     entirely in variance with the laws of England and the Freedom of
     the Country should be forthwith repealed, and Slavery forever
     hereafter abolished in this Colony.

     "Be it therefore enacted by the Lieutenant Governor, Council and
     Assembly, That from and after the passing hereof the said Act,
     intituled 'An Act declaring that Baptism of Slaves shall not
     exempt them from Bondage,' and every Clause, Matter and thing
     therein contained, be, and the same is hereby, repealed.

     "Provided always, That nothing herein contained shall have any
     effect until His Majesty's Pleasure shall be known."

The act was transmitted by the Lieutenant-Governor, Colonel John Ready, in a dispatch to Secretary
of State George Canning, of date November 8, 1825, in which he says: "The preamble explains
the reasons for passing this act." The bill received the Royal approval and became law. But
it will be seen that, while the act of 1781 went further than its preamble, that of 1825 fell
far short. It did not abolish slavery, but simply repealed the previous act.

                                             WILLIAM RENWICK RIDDELL.

  OSGOODE HALL,
      TORONTO, March 24, 1921.

DOCUMENTS

From the Proceedings of the American Convention of Abolition Societies may be obtained valuable
information in the form of the reports as to slavery, the appeal of the anti-slavery groups
to Congress, and their addresses to the citizens of the United States. There is unconsciously
given in these documents most interesting facts as to what the Negro was doing and what was
being done for him. The important documents falling within these three groups follow.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Report of the Committee on the State of Slavery in the United States, being again considered,
was amended and adopted as follows.

To the American Convention for the Abolition of Slavery, Ec.

The committee appointed (at the last session of the Convention) on the state of slavery in
the United States, beg leave to report as follows:

Your committee were rather at a loss to perceive the precise design of the Convention, in the
appointment of a committee on the state of slavery in the United States. But have thought proper
to review the subject; first with reference to its progress; secondly in reference to the situation
or treatment of slaves; and thirdly in reference to the prospect of its diminution or final
removal.

First. In reference to the progress of slavery in the United States, your committee find that
at the time of the first census under the Constitution in 1790, there were 694,280 slaves in
the Union. These were with the exception of about 40,000, confined to a surface of about 212,000
square miles. In 1800, the number was 889,118 on a surface of 289,000 square miles or nearly
so! In 1810, the number was increased to 1,191,364 and covered an extent of territory of about
431,000 square miles! At the time of the last census in 1820, the slaves in the United States
and territories amounted to 1,538,178, and your committee have good reason to believe that
the number at the present time or at the census of 1830, will be found to be about two millions,
occupying a territory including Arkansas, of nearly 600,000 square miles!!

Your committee have been surprised at the result of their own enquiries, for they had fondly
hoped that the dreadful evil was if not diminishing, at least advancing with less rapidity.
From various estimates, on which your committee place much reliance, they are confirmed in
the opinion, that the increase (independent of clandestine importations) must amount at the
present time to at least near 50,000 per annum.

As this increase like that of population generally, is in its nature, a geometrical progression,
it must continue to augment, as long as subsistence can be obtained. This view of the subject
is truly alarming; but when we consider the extent of territory which is overspread by this
foul blot on the map of our beloved country, the heart sickens at the prospect.

To behold 600,000 square miles of the best land in North America, teeming with slaves,--a surface
greater, than that of many European kingdoms, held too by men who are constantly boasting of
their love of liberty; sending up daily to Heaven, the sighs and groans of millions of broken
hearts, while the sweat and tears and even the blood of thousands moisten its soil, must excite
deep emotion in every breast, not dead to those feelings which become the patriot, or animate
the Christian. But furthermore your committee are of opinion that if the scheme, of adding
a large portion of Mexican territory, to our south-western border, should be consummated, the
price of slaves will be so enhanced and the facilities of smuggling so much increased, that
the African slave trade will be greatly augmented, as well as the practice of kidnapping in
the more eastern parts of our own country. So that upon the whole, your committee are of opinion,
that slavery is fearfully on the increase, and that every effort is making, by many of those
interested in its continuance, to multiply its victims and extend its influence. This state
of things calls loudly on every friend of his country, on every friend of man, to use every
effort in his power, to arrest the torrent of misery and crime.

Secondly. On the treatment of slaves,--your committee have long indulged an opinion which they
believe is common with their fellow-citizens, that slaves in this country are somewhat better
treated than formerly. This opinion seems to prevail to an extent which your committee fear,
is not sustained by facts. A writer in Niles's Register for 1818, says, speaking on this subject,
"The favourable change which has occurred in the treatment of negro slaves in this state (Maryland)
since the revolution, must be to every benevolent mind a source of very agreeable reflections,
our oldest citizens well remember when it was very customary to inflict on the manacled and
naked person of the slave, the most intolerable punishments for very trivial offences. Within
the last twenty years it has been the practice to muster all the slaves on a farm once a week,
and distribute to each his peck of corn, leaving him to walk several miles, to some neighbours
hand mill, to grind it himself, under cover of night, when exhausted nature called for rest
from the labours of the day; in many cases they received not an atom of animal food, and their
usual bedding was a plank, or by particular kindness a single blanket."

The above writer does not specify any particulars in which the improvement spoken of is apparent,
but we think all will admit that a very considerable improvement might be accomplished, and
yet the treatment might be such as could not be called good. He adds however that "much remains
to be done, which the obligation of humanity require."

Your committee are of opinion, that in consequence of what has been written, spoken, and done
by the friends of abolition, much light has been diffused through the community even in the
slave holding states, and many masters restrained by the force of public opinion, thus enlightened,
have abstained from cruelties which they would otherwise have inflicted; yet we cannot but
believe, that very much anguish of heart, and exquisite sufferings of body are endured by this
unhappy race, even in Maryland: (and we believe they are used as well here, as in any other
part of our country.)

The multitudes that are annually sold to the southern markets, by which parents and children
are violently separated, and all the ties of consanguinity rent asunder, if no other indication
of bad treatment were discovered; would itself speak volumes.

The treatment of slaves may be estimated with some degree of accuracy by the laws which are
in force respecting them. The laws of the land are always understood to be intended for the
protection of the subject, but with respect to negro slaves (in the slave states) they have
an effect directly the reverse. So far from securing him in the enjoyment of happiness, his
very life is placed at the mercy of any white man, (especially of his master or overseer) who
may take the opportunity to kill him in the absence of any other free white person. Resistance
to the will of the master, may be punished with stripes, and if the resistance amount to striking,
may be punished by imprisonment and whipping; and for a third offence the slave may suffer
death! It will be perceived that by the operation of those laws, a virtuous female slave, may
suffer death for defending her chastity against the ruffian assaults of a debauchee. The manner
in which those laws are administered in some of the states, frequently occasions great outrages
upon the common charities of our nature. The discretion rested in a court of two or three freeholders,
or a single magistrate, over the persons of the accused is often exercised with great severity.
In Stroud's Slave Laws, we have an account of the burning to death of a negro woman, under
a law of South Carolina, so late as 1820. (See page 124, in the note.)

It appears also that the mental improvement of the slave is a thing generally deprecated by
the master, and in some cases provided against by law. (See Niles's Register, April 21, 1821.)

How deplorable must be the state of that community, which supposed its safety to depend on
keeping one half of its members totally ignorant, and not even able to read the Holy Scripture.

It furthermore appears that in transporting slaves from one part of the nation to another,
either in the domestic slave trade or in large bodies by removals of planters, &c. they are
usually chained and handcuffed, or otherwise manacled, like the vilest criminals, &c. &c.

In considering the treatment of slaves, your committee deem it necessary to notice the amount
and quality of labour required of them. In some cases this is known to be extremely severe,
and attended with many aggravating circumstances. Such as scarcity of supplies which are sometimes
insufficient, and frequently of very inferior quality: exposure to disease, and want of proper
attention in the incipient states of sickness. The cultivation of rice one of the great staples
of the Carolinas, is an instance to illustrate this point. Mr. Adams in his Geography says,
"the cultivation is wholly by negroes. No work can be imagined more laborious or more prejudicial
to health. They are obliged to stand in water often times mid-leg high, exposed to the scorching
heat of the sun, and breathing an atmosphere poisoned by the unwholesome effluvia of an oozy
bottom and stagnant water."

It appears therefore, that in the treatment of slaves in general, as well as in the legal provisions
respecting them, the interest, convenience, security and inclinations of the master, constitute
the only object in view; the comfort or even safety or health of the slave makes no part of
the consideration, any further than it is supposed, to promote one or the other of the former.
Finally after taking a rapid view of this part of the subject, your committee are led to doubt
whether the evils of slavery are materially lessened in certain portions of our beloved country,
notwithstanding all that has been done in favour of manumission, colonization and abolition
of the slave trade, &c. &c. and what it might have been at this time, if no efforts had been
made to arrest its progress, is beyond human wisdom to determine.

Thirdly, In reference to the diminution or the final extinction of slavery in the Union, your
committee remark, that it seems to be the expectation of all, that it must at some period cease
to exist, an evil so tremendous--a practice so completely at war with all the principles of
justice, mercy and truth, so repugnant to all the best feelings of human nature, and fraught
with such fearful consequences to society; cannot but excite in every reflecting mind a strong
desire that it should be removed. In view of the divine government, which rules all with justice
and righteousness, the human mind is naturally led to expect that such oppression and cruelty
must have an end.

But how this revolution in society is to be brought about, perhaps no human foresight can yet
divine. If our slave holding fellow citizens could be induced to establish schools for the
instruction of the rising generation among the blacks, and thus qualify them for self government,
which every principle of equity requires they should do, and to teach them by precept and example
the importance of moral obligation; one of the greatest obstacles would be removed. If they
would introduce among them a sacred regard for the social duties, arising from marriage, and
from the relations subsisting between parents and children; they might with perfect safety
and great advantage to the state, be emancipated. A few years of effort of this kind, would
form a class of men from whom the nation would not only have nothing to fear; but on whom she
could safely rely for aid in her greatest emergency. In their present condition of abject slavery
what can be expected of them, but that they should lay hold on every apparent opportunity,
of regaining their freedom, and ever retorting on the masters the evils they have suffered?

Facts uniformly sustain this position; what multitudes of slaves joined the enemy during his
temporary invasions of our southern coasts in the late war, notwithstanding all the efforts
of the whites to prevent it? While on the contrary none were found more efficient in repelling
his attacks than the free blacks of the south. Such was their zeal and valour in defence of
Louisiana, that General Jackson, the present Chief Magistrate of the Union; bestowed on them
the following eulogium.

"TO THE MEN OF COLOUR." In a subsequent communication, the General in numerating the officers
whose commands had distinguished themselves, makes honourable mention of the one who led these
troops in the different actions of that memorable campaign. There are many circumstances which
encourage the hope, that the time is drawing nigh when the African race shall enjoy the sweets
of liberty. Their successful attempt at self government in St. Domingo, under so many disadvantages,
the abolition of slavery in several of the South American provinces, and recently in Mexico,
and the efforts of the British nation in their behalf, together with many other co-operating
causes seem to indicate the interposition of Divine Providence in favour of the oppressed.
In HIS Almighty hand, the most inefficient causes sometimes produce the most astonishing effects,
and often the very means made use of to rivet the chains of oppression are so overruled by
Him as to burst the bonds they were designed to perpetuate. We may therefore rest assured that
He will in his own good time crown our labours with complete success, by bringing deliverance
to the captive "and the opening of the prison doors to them that are bound." In the mean time
let every friend of the cause remember that he has a duty to perform. Let the result be what
it may, he is equally bound to oppose as far as possible, the growing evil.

It becomes us therefore to enquire how this may most effectually be done. Our opposition should
be peaceable but firm. It should be the opposition of brothers not of enemies, it may be shewn
by acts of kindness and forbearance, but it must be opposition and it must be shown. It may
exhibit itself in peaceable efforts to protect the rights of free blacks, and instructing their
offspring, or it may be shown by rational attempts to enlighten the public mind on the subject,
or in encouragement of those publications that are so employed; or by memorials to congress
and the state legislature, &c. &c.

Our means of considerable efficiency for exciting the public mind to the consideration of the
injustice and impolicy of slavery, may probably be found in the persevering efforts now making
on the part of many friends of abolition to encourage the creation and consumption of the products
of free labour.

We cannot withhold the tribute of our respect and admiration from those patriotic females,
who have associated for this purpose both in England and America, and heartily, recommend their
example, as one worthy of universal imitation.[1]

                                             WM. KESLEY, CHAIRMAN.

A TABLE SHEWING THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND REQUISITIONS OF THE CONVENTION OF 1796, AND OF FORMER
CONVENTIONS, AND HOW FAR THEY HAVE HITHERTO BEEN COMPLIED WITH BY EACH SOCIETY.

I. To send delegates to a Convention to meet at Philadelphia in May, 1797.

  New-York Society,                                  complied.
  New-Jersey society,                                  ditto.
  Pennsylvania society,                                ditto.
  Maryland society, (at Baltimore)                   ditto.
  Choptank society, (Maryland)                       ditto.
  Alexandria society, (Virginia)                     ditto.
  Virginia society, (at Richmond)                    ditto.

Rhode-Island, Connecticut, Washington (Pennsylvania,) Wilmington, (Delaware,) Delaware, Chester-town
(Maryland,) Winchester, (Virginia) and Kentucky societies sent none.

II. To transmit certified copies of all the laws in the respective states relating to slavery;
as well of those repealed as of those in force.

  Connecticut transmitted                      in 1795.
  New-York,                                    in 1797.
  New-Jersey,                                  in 1796.
  Pennsylvania,                                in 1797.
  Maryland,                                    in 1797.
  Virginia and Alexandria                      in 1797.

a copy of professor Tucker's dissertation on slavery, which contains the substance of all the
laws of Virginia respecting slavery from its settlement till 1794. Copies of the laws since
that period also sent.

Rhode Island, Delaware, and Kentucky societies have not yet transmitted.

III. To forward correct lists of the officers and other members of each respective society.

New-York complied in 1796 and 1797, number of members two hundred and fifty.

New-Jersey complied partially.

Pennsylvania complied in 1797. Members five hundred and ninety-one.

Wilmington complied in 1796. Members about sixty.

Maryland complied in 1797. Members two hundred and thirty-one.

Choptank complied in 1797. Members twenty-five.

Alexandria complied in 1797. Members sixty-two.

Virginia complied in 1796 and 1797. Members one hundred and forty-seven.

Rhode-Island, Connecticut, Washington, Delaware, Chester-town, Winchester and Kentucky societies
have not yet sent lists of their members.

IV. An account of the proceedings of each society in relieving persons unlawfully held in bondage.

New-York. Since January 1796, have had complaints from ninety persons, Africans or of African
descent--twenty-nine freed on the law prohibiting importation--seven as free born--two unsuccessful--heavy
damages recovered in some instances--twenty-one cases now in suit--nineteen under consideration.

New-Jersey, Society. Many manumissions have been effected since January 1796, but no precise
information is yet received to what number and under what circumstances.

Pennsylvania Society. It appears from the minutes of the acting committee of the society, that
many hundreds of Africans have been liberated through their aid since the institution of the
society.

Wilmington Society. Has sent a list of persons liberated by their agency up to 1796, amounting
to eighty since 1788.

Maryland Society at Baltimore. A variety of suits were instituted against the unlawful holders
of slaves last year, and in consequence many have been liberated--there are several suits now
pending in law, which are expected to have the like favorable issue.

Choptank Society. This society has exerted itself in favor of the Africans, for seven years;
and been the instrument of liberating more than sixty individuals, and has failed but in a
single application to a court of justice in their behalf.

Alexandria Society. Twenty-six complaints made to the society--six persons relieved on the
law against importation; five will probably be relieved, the other fourteen cases on which
as well as on the above suits are pending are doubtful. A suit in Norfolk court and one in
North Carolina now carrying on at the expense of this society.

Virginia Society. Nothing of material importance since the convention of 1796. Suits commenced
before now pending in behalf of between twenty and thirty persons.

V. A Statement of the condition of the blacks in each State both bond and free, with respect
to the property of the free, and the employment and moral conduct of all.

New-York.

New-Jersey. Condition, as to enjoyments of life and respectability, much the same as in New-York.

Pennsylvania. Complied with in 1796. See the minutes of the convention of that year--page 20
and 21.

Maryland at Baltimore & Choptank. The condition of the blacks from the information this society
has received is greatly ameliorated, and some few of the free are enabled to provide for themselves
without manual labor--moral conduct equal to that of the whites in like circumstances--minute
information not yet obtained.

Alexandria. Generally slaves--their treatment less rigourous than formerly--moral conduct of
the free generally good--as labourers preferred to the whites.

From Rhode-Island, Connecticut, Washington, Wilmington, Delaware, Chester-town, Virginia, Winchester
and Kentucky Societies,--none sent.

VI. Reports of trials and adjudications relative to Africans.

New-York. A bill for the gradual abolition of slavery brought into the Legislature at their
last session, but postponed till the next session.

New-Jersey. A bill brought into the last session of the Legislature for a gradual abolition
of slavery which is postponed to the next session as in New-York.

Pennsylvania. A bill for the total abolition of slavery was brought into and read in the House
of Representatives near the close of the last session of the Legislature, but lies over to
the next session.

Maryland at Baltimore. No attempt has been made since the Convention of 1796.

Alexandria. Have drawn up and mean to present to the next Legislature, a remonstrance against
a late law of the State which is peculiarly severe against Africans.

VIII. The progress made in extending to Africans the benefits of instruction.

New-York. House and lot for a school purchased by the society since January 1796--school has
existed many years--more flourishing now than ever--property of the society for its accommodation
worth upwards of three thousand five hundred dollars--annual expense of the school one thousand
dollars--has a master, usher and mistress--scholars taught reading, penmanship, arithmetic,
English grammar and geography--girls (additionally) needle work--number one hundred and twenty-two--boys
sixty three girls fifty-nine--improve fast and behave as well as any other children--evening
school in the winter for free blacks, adults--taught by the master and usher of the society's
school--number, forty-four--usher a black man.

New-Jersey. Nothing done by the society--a bill is now pending before the Legislature providing
for the instruction of all children in the state, which, if carried, will include the Africans
as well as the whites.

Pennsylvania. Within the city and liberties of Philadelphia there are at present seven schools
for the education of people of colour; at which perhaps near three hundred scholars of both
sexes usually attend--two other schools are about to be opened for the same purpose.

Maryland at Baltimore. Several children of Africans and other people of color now under a course
of instruction--an academy (of which no notice was given to the last convention) will be opened
the ensuing season, and suitable teachers provided.

Alexandria. A Sunday school opened by this society in December, 1795, for the reception of
Africans and their descendants--the number of scholars who usually attend is one hundred and
eight--they are instructed in reading, penmanship and arithmetic.

IX. To establish periodical discourses on the subject of slavery and the means of its abolition.

Connecticut. No information this year--there have been seven or eight discourses delivered
before the society, the greater part of which have been printed and circulated extensively.

New-York. The first annual discourse delivered before this society the twelfth of April, 1797.

Pennsylvania. Not deemed necessary in this state, where the general sentiments of the people
are, in a great degree, congenial with those of the society.

Maryland. Complied with.

Rhode-Island, New-Jersey, Washington, Wilmington, Delaware, Chestertown, Choptank, Alexandria,
Virginia, Winchester, and Kentucky Societies transmitted no information on the subject.

X. To keep accurate registers of all deeds of manumission executed within the precincts of
each society.

New-York. Attended to by this society from the first, so far as depended on itself.

Pennsylvania. A register of manumissions kept by the acting committee.

Maryland at Baltimore, and Choptank. The society preserve a register--and all manumissions
are matter of record in the county courts.

Alexandria. A register is kept by the society, manumissions are recorded in the court of Common
Pleas.

Virginia. Deeds of emancipation are recorded in the county courts.

From Rhode-Island, Connecticut, New-Jersey, Washington, Wilmington, Delaware, Chester-town,
Winchester and Kentucky societies--no information.

XI. To distribute suitable publications tending to promote the design of the institutions.

New-York. Attended to partially.

New-Jersey. Attended to generally.

Pennsylvania. Faithfully attended to.

Alexandria. Attended to, and a new publication is soon to be made on the subject of slavery.

XII. To endeavour to free negroes from St. Domingo retained here as slaves, contrary to the
decree of the National Convention of France.

Pennsylvania. Acted on as cases have occurred--from the other societies--no information.

XIII. To discourage the use of articles manufactured by slaves.

No particular measures on this subject are represented as being adopted by any of the societies.

XIV. To distribute the address to the free people of color from the convention of 1796.

New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Alexandria societies,--done.

Choptank society. Not received till late by this society.

Virginia society. Done in part.

XV. To send copies of the constitutions of the respective societies.

Connecticut. Sent.

New-York. Sent the original in 1796, and the revised one in 1797.

New-Jersey. Sent in 1796.

Pennsylvania. ditto.

Wilmington. ditto.

Maryland. ditto.

Alexandria. Sent in 1797.

Virginia. Sent in 1796.

Rhode-Island, Washington, Delaware, Chester-town, Choptank, Winchester, and Kentucky societies
sent none.[2]

A PLAN FOR THE GENERAL EMANCIPATION OF SLAVES. (Declaration of Independence.)

These self-evident truths, thus solemnly promulgated, and always admitted in theory; at least
in relation to ourselves; are well-known to be partially denied or disregarded, in most sections
of the union, in relation to the descendents of the African race. That a nation professing
the justice of its laws, should contain a population, amounting to nearly one-seventh of the
whole, who know little of the operation of those laws, except as instruments of oppression,
is one of those political phenomena, which prove how little the patriot's boast, or the creator's
declamation is guided by the light of truth.

It must be admitted that it would neither be politic nor safe, for the present system of slavery
in the United Sates to be long continued, without providing some wise and certain means of
eventual emancipation.

Slavery with its present degrading characteristics, is a state of actual hostility between
master and slave, in which "a revolution of the wheel of fortune, in exchange of situation,
is among possible events; and this may become probably by supernatural interference! The Almighty
has no attribute which can take part with us in such a contest."--Jefferson.

It is a truth generally acknowledged, that Slavery is an evil, not only by those whom principle,
or education have taught to proscribe the practice, but by men of reflection, even in the very
vortex of slavery. To condemn then, what few, if any, will presume to defend is rendered unnecessary;
and the ingenuity of the philanthropist would be more judiciously exercised in devising a practicable
remedy for this deep-rooted disease, than in heaping reproaches upon these, who, by the conduct
of their ancestors, are placed in the condition of masters of slaves. Few of those who from
their childhood, have been placed in situations far removed from the scenes which slavery exhibits,
can fully appreciate the difficulties, the vexations, and the anxieties, incident to the life
of a slaveholder. To devise a plan, then, by which the condition, both of the master and slave
may be meliorated, is a desideratum in the policy of this country:--A plan which will promote
the immediate interest of the master, in the same ratio, that the slave is made to rise in
the scale of moral and intellectual improvement; and which will eventuate in the ultimate enfranchisement
of the long injured and degraded descendants of Africa. The evils of slavery being generally
acknowledged, and its impolicy fully evinced, the important question which remains to be solved,
will naturally present itself: What are the means by which this evil is to be removed, consistently
with the safety of the master, and the happiness of the slave? Perhaps to some, this question,
considered on the ground of absolute justice, may appear of easy solution: Immediate, universal
emancipation.

But however pleasing the prospect may be to the philanthropist, of getting clear of one of
the evils of slavery, yet a full examination of local circumstances, must convince us that
this would be, to cut, rather than untie the Gordian knot.

Reformation on a large scale, is commonly slow. Habits long established, are not easily and
suddenly changed. But were it possible to induce the inhabitants of the slaveholding states,
to proclaim liberty to the captives, and to let loose at once the whole tide of black population,
it may reasonably be questioned whether such a measure would not produce as much evil as it
would cure. Besides, such a measure, if it were practicable, would fall short of simple justice.
We owe to that injured race, an immense debt, which the liberation of their bodies alone would
not liquidate. It has been the policy of the slaveholder to keep the man whom he has doomed
to interminable servitude, in the lowest state of mental degradation: to withhold from him
as much as possible the means of improving the talents which nature has given him. In short,
to reduce him as near to the condition of a machine as a rational being could be. Every inducement--every
excitement, to the exertion and development of native talent and genius, is wanting in the
slave.--Hence, to throw such a being, thus degraded, thus brutalized, upon society, and then
expect him to exercise those rights which are the birthright of every son and daughter of Adam,
with advantage to himself, or to the community upon which he is thrown, is to suppose that
the laws established for the government of universal nature, should in this case be changed.
As well might we expect a man to be born in the full maturity of his mental faculties, or an
infant to run before it had learned the use of its limbs.

A plan, then, for universal emancipation, to be practicable, must be gradual. The slave must
be made to pass through a state of pupilage and monority, to fit him for the enjoyment and
exercise of rational liberty.

"If then the extremes of emancipation, and perpetual, unlimited slavery be dangerous," and
impolitic, "the safe and advisable measure must be between them." And this brings us again
the question, How can we get clear of the evils of slavery, with safety to the master, and
advantage to the slave? For the solution of this difficult problem, the following outlines
of a plan for a gradual, but general and universal emancipation is proposed. Let the slaves
be attached to the soil,--give them an interest in the land they cultivate. Place them in the
same situation as their masters, as the peasantry of Russia, in relation to their landlords.
Let wise and salutary laws be enacted, in the several slave holding states, for their general
government. These laws should provide for the means of extending to the children of every slave,
the benefits of school learning. The practice of arbitrary punishment for the most trivial
offences, should be abolished.

An important step towards the accomplishment of this plan, would be, to prohibit by law the
migration, or transportation of slaves from one state to another:--and also to provide, that
no slave should be sold, out of the county, or town in which his master resides, without his
own consent. Provision should then be made for the introduction of a system of general instruction
on each farm or plantation; each slave who has a family should be furnished with a hut, and
a portion of land to cultivate for his own use; for which he would pay to the landlord an annual
rent. For each day he was employed by the master or landlord, he should be allowed a stipulated
price: out of the proceeds of his stipulated wages, those things necessary for his comfortable
maintenance, should be deducted; if furnished by the master.

The time given him to cultivate his allotment of ground should be deducted from his annual
hire. A wise and equitable system of laws, adapted to the condition of blacks, should be established
for their government. Then a character would be formed among them; acts of diligence and fidelity
would meet their appropriate reward, and negligence and crime would be followed by their merited
chastisement. The execution of this plan, in its fullest extent, would be followed by increased
profits to the landholder.

It would be productive of incalculable advantage to the slave, both in his civil, and moral
condition:--And thus the interest of the master, and the melioration of the condition of the
slave, would be gradually and reciprocally advanced in the progress of this experiment. Although
legislative provisions would greatly facilitate the adoption of this plan, it is not necessary
for individuals to wait the movement of government. Any one may introduce it on his own plantation,
and reap many of its most important advantages.

The plan now proposed is not new. It is not a Utopian and visionary theory, unsupported by
experience. It has been successfully tried in the Island of Barbadoes, by the late Joshua Steele;
and the result exceeded his most sanguine expectations. "The first principles, of his plan,"
says Mr. Dickson, "are the plain ones, of treating the slaves as human creatures: moving them
to action by the hope of reward, as well as the fear of punishment: giving them out of their
own labours, wages and land, sufficient to afford them the plainest necessaries:--And protecting
them against the capricious violence, too often of ignorant, unthinking, or unprincipled, and
perhaps drunken men and boys, invested with arbitrary powers, as their managers, and 'drivers.'
His plan is founded in nature, and has nothing in it of rash innovation. It does not hurry
forward a new order of things;--it recommends no fine projects of ticklish experiments; but,
by a few safe and easy steps, and a few simple applications of English law, opens the way for
the gradual introduction of a better system."

The Committee appointed to take into consideration the subject of the Internal Slave Trade,
and report such facts as they may deem suitable for publication, in relation to it,

Respectfully Report--That they consider the subject as one of the greatest magnitude and importance
that can gain the attention of this Convention. That such a trade should be permitted to be
practised by the Laws of the United States of America, is a matter of the deepest regret, and
can only be reconciled by a consideration of the frailty of all human institutions. From the
short time afforded the Committee they have been unable as fully to consider the subject as
they desired, but from the enquiry they have been able to make, the following appears to be
at present the principal markets for the sale of human beings in the United States, viz. the
Territories of Florida and Arkansas, the states of Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana;
these states and territories are supplied with their victims of oppression and cruelty, from
the states of Delaware, Maryland, the District of Columbia, Eastern and Northern parts of Virginia,
Kentucky and Tennessee. The principal depots where men, women, and children are collected,
frequently kept in irons and exhibited for sale are--Patty Cannon's house, situated on the
confines of Delaware and Maryland; a large establishment in the city of Baltimore; the Jail
of Baltimore County; one at Saddler's Cross Roads, and the Jail in the city of Washington a
public tavern in the same place, and several places in the town of Alexandria; and in most
of the towns of Virginia, and in the city of Charleston, S. C. In addition to the evils of
legalized Slavery, we may add, as growing out of the trade, acts of kidnapping not less cruel
than those committed on the Coast of Africa. Individuals are well known, who have made a business
of decoying free people of Color on board their vessels, and of selling them for Slaves; two
instances came particularly under observation in one of our principal sea ports, (and we believe
they are numerous in other places,) one a boy of about 12 years of age, was decoyed on board
a vessel and taken to one of the above places of deposite, from thence sent in their chain
of communication to the home of the purchaser. Another instance occurred by the next trip of
the vessel, of a woman being taken in the same manner, who on attempting to leave the cabin
was knocked down, gagged, and severely whipped, to intimidate, and make her acknowledge herself
a slave. She was taken to the same place of deposite, but apprehending it was to be searched,
they removed her with two others, free persons, (one of them stolen within twelve miles of
the place,) to the woods, where they were chained, with but little clothing, and exposed day
and night in the open air; one of the persons so confined released himself from the tree to
which he was attached and with an axe extricated the others. The woman above alluded to has
since arrived and gave the information, and in addition says, they have pits to conceal their
captives when close pursuit is apprehended, which they cover with earth and leaves. It may
be asked, as the persons are known, why not bring them to justice? We may reply, that notwithstanding
we could bring some of the persons last alluded to, to identify their kidnappers, yet their
evidence, on account of their color, is not allowed to be received in the Courts of Slaveholding
States. Many other instances have occured: and many instances of persons who were entitled
to their freedom after serving a limited time, being sold into irredeemable Slavery in other
states are deplorably numerous; the covert manner of doing which is generally such as to elude
detection. It is suggested whether Legislative enactments requiring that persons so situated,
should be required to be registered every time they change masters would not obviate in some
measure this evil--humane persons could then trace individuals so circumstanced, and bring
offenders to justice:--all which is respectfully submitted.

Some of your Committee have been the unwilling witnesses of gangs of men, women and children,
being driven off in chains from some of the above places to be sold like cattle. The shrieks
and groans of the wretched victims, would have melted any heart but that of a Slave Trader,
steeled by avarice or petrified by cruelty: and as if in utter defiance of the laws of God
and man:--the Sabbath is the day generally chosen for receiving and sending off the unfortunate
objects of their cupidity and so blunted has public opinion become from the long existence
of this unhallowed traffic, that individuals in the city of Alexandria, publicly advertise
their having prepared their prisons and furnished themselves with every accommodation for selling
men, women, and innocent children, to any purchaser.

The number transported by sea from the single port of Baltimore by a noted trader of that place
is believed to exceed several hundreds per annum. How long, may we ask, is our land to be polluted
with such abominations? Is there no fear of the awful vengeance of him who has declared, "Is
not this the fast that I have chosen, to loose the bonds of wickedness, and that ye let the
oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?" If cruelty to the Israelites, (and their
acts of oppression was mildness, in comparison with ours,) what may we not expect, we who have
received the blessings of divine revelation, who proclaim the goodness of God, in having freed
us from the political bondage of Great Britain.

Respectfully submitted, on behalf of the Committee,

                         --THOMAS SHIPLEY, Chairman.[4]

TO THE AMERICAN CONVENTION, &c.

The Committee appointed at the last Convention to procure information of the cultivation of
Sugar, Cotton, &c. by free labor, &c.

Respectfully Report--That they have given some attention to the subject of their appointment,
but have not been as successful as could have been desired. They have been enabled to procure
some general information, relative to the production of sugar and cotton by the labor of emancipated
slaves, and other free persons of color, in the West Indian Islands and on the American Continent;
but have not had it in their power to obtain such particulars concerning it as will shew the
extent of the pecuniary advantages which this mode of proceeding undoubtedly possesses over
that of cultivating the land by slave labor.

We are credibly informed that the article of sugar is now produced by free labor, in two or
more of the West Indian Islands, of a quality fully equal to that of any other, and is, also,
brought into the market upon quite as favourable terms. Coffee is also produced in abundance
in the island of Hayti, and some parts of South America, by free labor. These productions,
unstained by slavery, may now be had in the cities of New York and Philadelphia, and likewise
at Wilmington in Delaware.

In the Territory of Florida, we learn, that a company, composed principally of citizens of
the United States, have purchased a large tract of land, with the view of cultivating the sugar
cane and other tropical productions, by the labor of free men. Samples of the sugar made by
this company have been shewn to some of the members of your committee, and have been pronounced
to be of a good quality. In Louisiana, likewise, we are informed that sundry persons are engaged
in producing sugar in the same way, but we have not ascertained to what extent they have carried
their experiments.

Sundry cotton planters in the states of North Carolina and Alabama, have, for several years
cultivated their lands by free hands. They have disposed of considerable quantities of cotton
in New York and New England, and we are informed appear well satisfied to continue the practice
of employing free laborers to the total exclusion of that of slaves.

A gentleman in Rhode Island has manufactured some of this cotton separately into coarse muslins,
which may also be had as above stated. A few of the citizens of Pennsylvania and Delaware,
have likewise purchased some of this cotton, and manufactured it into calicoes and other fabrics.
We presume, however, that this has not been done to any considerable extent; neither have we
ascertained the degree of encouragement held out to those engaged in the enterprise.

The article of tobacco, has, for some years, been successfully cultivated in the state of Ohio,
where it is known that slavery does not exist; and we learn that it can be afforded in the
Baltimore market at a lower price than that produced in the state of Maryland, by the labor
of Slaves, after defraying the expenses of transportation some hundreds of miles further than
the latter. But we are informed that even in the Province of Upper Canada, sundry colored persons
from Kentucky, have made a settlement, and have raised large quantities of this article which
has been disposed of to advantage in some of our Atlantic ports.

But the most particular account your committee have obtained respecting the experiment of free,
contrasted with slave labor, has been obtained from Ward's Mexico, a work lately published
in London. The author was an Envoy of the British Government, and the most entire reliance
may be placed on his statement, which, as in every other fair experiment completely proves
the advantages of cultivation by freemen. It appears, from his account, that the experiment
was tried in consequence of the difficulty of procuring slaves during the war, and the great
mortality which always took place on the first introduction of the slaves, from a change of
climate. Being desirous to produce a race of free laborers, a large number of slaves were manumitted
and encouraged to intermarry with the native Indians, which they soon did to a great extent,
and so beneficial was the plan found to the master's interest, that in the year 1808 on most
of the largest estates, there was not a slave to be found. From a personal inspection the author
above alluded to declares that their tasks were performed with great precision and rapidity,
(vol. 1, p. 67, 68.). A most important improvement appears also to have taken place; the whip
being banished from the field and the females released from the field labor. From 360 to 450
tons of sugar are produced by 150 free laborers, while in Cuba, where the soil is superior
in fertility the same number produce but 180 tons.

Should the Convention think proper the committee are willing to continue the further investigation
of the subject.

                                   Respectfully submitted,
                                             B. LUNDY, Chairman.[5]

TO THE AMERICAN CONVENTION,--The committee appointed to procure information in relation to
the culture of sugar, cotton, &c. on this continent by free labor.,

Respectfully State--That owing to the inadequacy of the means to make the requisite investigations,
your committee has not been able since the last session of the Convention to acquire much information
of any farther general facts. The following notice of the cultivation of sugar in Mexico, to
which your committee then briefly advertised has been obtained through the medium of the London
Anti-Slavery Monthly Reporter for August, 1829. It is an extract of a letter from Mr. Ward,
Mexican Envoy of the British Government to the Right Honourable George Canning, viz.

                                   Mexico, March 13, 1826.

"SIR,--The possibility of introducing a system of free labour into the West India Islands having
been so much discussed in England, I conceived that it might not be uninteresting to His Majesty's
Government to receive some details respecting the result of the experiment in this country,
where it certainly has had a fair trial.

"I accordingly took advantage of Mr. Morier's prolonged stay here to visit the Valley of Cuernavaca,
and Cuantla Amilpas, which supplies a great part of the federation with sugar and coffee, although
not a single slave is at present employed in their cultivation.

"I have the honour to inclose a sketch of the observations which I was enabled to make upon
this journey, together with such details as I have thought best calculated to show both the
scale upon which these estates are worked, and the complete success with which the abolition
of the slavery has, in this instance been attended.

"The valley which extends almost uninterruptedly from Cuernavaca to Cuantla Amilpas and Juncar
(covering a space of about forty miles,) is situated on the road to Acapulco, at the foot of
the first range of mountains by which the descent from the Table Land towards the south-west
commences, about fifty miles from the Capital.

"It is about 2,000 feet lower than the Table Land of Mexico. The difference of temperature
is proportionably great, so that two days are sufficient to transport the traveller into the
very midst of Tierra Caliente.

"It is believed that the sugar-cane was first planted there about one hundred years ago; from
that time the number of sugar-estates has gone on increasing, until there is now hardly an
acre of ground on the whole plain which is not turned to account.

"The cultivation was originally carried on entirely by slaves, who were purchased at Vera Cruz,
at from 300 to 400 dollars each.

"It was found, however, that this system was attended with considerable inconvenience, it being
impossible to secure a sufficient supply of slaves during a war. The losses likewise, at all
times, were great, as many of the slaves were unable to support the fatigue and changes of
temperature, to which they were exposed on the journey from Vera Cruz to Curnavaca, and perished,
either on the road, or soon after their arrival.

"Several of the great proprieters were induced by these circumstances to give liberty to a
certain number of their slaves annually, and by encouraging marriages between them and the
Indians of the country, to propagate a race of free labourers, who might be employed when a
supply of Slaves was no longer to be obtained.

"This plan proved so eminently successful that on some of the largest estates there was not
a single slave in the year 1808.

"The policy of the measure became still more apparent on the breaking out of the revolution
in 1810.

"The planters who had not adopted the system of gradual emancipation before that period saw
themselves abandoned, and were forced, in many instances, to give up working their estates,
as their slaves took advantage of the approach of the insurgents to join them en masse; while
those who had provided themselves with a mixed cast of free labourers, retained even during
the worst times, a sufficient number of men to enable them to continue to cultivate their lands,
although upon a smaller scale."

The same work for September 1829, speaking of free and slave labour, remarks.

"The controversy is fast tending to its termination. The march of events will scarcely leave
room much longer, either for misrepresentation or misapprehension. The facilities already given
in Bengal by Lord W. Bentinck, to the investment of British capital and the development of
British skill in the cultivation of the soil; the almost certainty that those fiscal regulations
which have hitherto depressed the growth of sugar in Bengal, and prevented the large increase
of its imports into this country, will soon be repealed; the prospect of an early removal of
the other restrictions which still fetter the commerce of our Eastern possessions: the rapidly
increasing population and prosperity of Haiti; the official statements of Mr. Ward, as to the
profitable culture of sugar by free labour in Mexico; and the rapid extension of the manufacture
of beet root sugar in France; a prelude as we conceive, to its introduction into this country,
and especially into Ireland; all these circumstances combined, afford a promise which can scarcely
fail of seeing a death blow inflicted on the culture of sugar by slave-labour, which all the
misrepresentations of all the slave holders in the world, with all their clamourous partisans
in this country cannot avert, or even long retard."

Since their views have been directed to the subject, your committee are fully satisfied that
its further investigation will be highly important; and that at no very distant period, the
results of very interesting experiments nearer home may be obtained.

                                   Respectfully Submitted,
                                             B. LUNDY, Chairman.[6]

  Baltimore, December 1, 1829.

Section II. And be it further enacted, That it shall be unlawful for any citizen of the United
States or other person residing therein, to serve on board any vessel of the United States
employed or made use of in the transportation or carrying the slaves from one foreign country
or place to another, and any such citizens or other person voluntarily serving as aforesaid
shall be liable to be indicted therefor, and on conviction thereof, shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding two thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not exceeding two years.

Section III. And be it further enacted, That if any citizen of the United States shall voluntarily
serve on board of any foreign ship or vessel which shall hereafter be employed in the Slave-trade,
he shall on conviction thereof, be liable to, and suffer the like forfeitures, pains, disabilities
and penalties as he would have incurred had such ship or vessel been owned or employed in whole
or in part by any person residing within the United States.

Section IV. And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for any of the commissioned
vessels of the United States, to seize and take any vessel employed in carrying on the trade,
business or traffic contrary to the true intent and meaning of this or the said act to which
this is in addition, and such vessel, together with her tackle, apparel and guns, and the goods
or effects other than slaves which shall be found on board, shall be forfeited and may be proceeded
against in any of the District or Circuit Courts, and shall be condemned for the use of the
officers and crew of the vessel making the seizure, and be divided in the proportion directed
in the case of prize; and all persons interested in such vessel, or in the enterprise or voyage
in which such vessel shall be employed at the time of such capture, shall be precluded from
all right or claim to the slaves found on board such vessels as afore said, and from all damages
or retribution on account thereof, and it shall moreover be the duty of the commanders of such
commissioned vessels to apprehend and take into custody every person found on board of such
vessel so seized and taken, being of the officers or crew thereof, and him or them convey as
soon as conveniently may be, to the civil, authority of the United States in some one of the
Districts thereof, to be proceeded against in due course of law.

Section V. And be it further enacted, That the District and Circuit Courts of the United States
shall have cognizance of all acts and offences against the prohibitions herein contained.

Section VI. Provided nevertheless, and be it further enacted, That nothing in this act contained,
shall be construed to authorize the bringing into either of the United States any person or
persons, the importation of whom is by the existing laws of such state prohibited.

Section VII.

                         THEODORE SEDGWICK, Speaker of the House
                                of Representatives.
                         THOMAS JEFFERSON, Vice President of the
                                United States, and President of
                                        the Senate.

TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES IN CONGRESS ASSEMBLED.[8]

The memorial and petition of the Delegates from the several Societies, formed in different
parts of the United States, for promoting the abolition of slavery, in Convention assembled
at Philadelphia, on the first day of January, 1794.

  Respectfully shew,

THAT your memorialists, having been appointed, by various Societies, in different parts of
the Union, for the benevolent purpose of endeavouring to alleviate or suppress some of the
miseries of their fellow-creatures, deem it their duty to approach the Congress of the United
States with a respectful representation of certain evils,--the unauthorised acts of a few,
but injurious to the interest and reputation of all.

America, dignified by being the first in modern times, to assert and defend the equal rights
of man, suffers her fame to be tarnished and her example to be weakened, by a cruel commerce,
carried on from some of her ports, for the supply of foreign nations with African slaves.

To enumerate the horrors incident to this inhuman traffic, of which all the worst passions
of mankind form the principal materials, would be unnecessary, when we offer to prove its existence.

Nor is it requisite to consume much of your valuable time in the endeavour to prove it a national
injury.

While it exposes the lives and the morals of our seamen to peculiar danger, it renders all
complaints of retaliation unjust; for those who deprive others of their liberty, for the benefit
of foreign countries, cannot reasonably murmur, if, by other foreign nations, they are deprived
of their own.

True it is, that the captivity at Algiers is not without a hope, and that the slavery of the
West-Indies terminates only with existence; but, in proportion as that to which we are accessary
is more severe, the duty of desisting from it becomes more urgent.

Your memorialists observe, and mention with pleasure, that this venal cruelty is at present
confined to a few ports, and a few persons. Hence it becomes more easy to destroy a degrading
exception from the general dignity of our commerce, and to restore our citizens to their former
fame, of preferring the spirit of freedom to the delusions of interest.

An additional reason for the legislative interference, now requested, arises from the natural
consequence of the facts already suggested.

Foreigners, seduced by the example, and believing that they may commit without reproach, what
American citizens commit with impunity, avail themselves of our ports to fit out their vessels
for the same traffic. Thus we become the accomplices of their offences, and partake of the
guilt without the miserable consolation of sharing its profits.

Your memorialists, therefore, trusting that a compliance with their request, will not exceed
the constitutional powers of Congress, nor injure the interests or disturb the tranquility
of any part of the Union, respectfully pray, that a law may be passed prohibiting the traffic
carried on by citizens of the United States for the supply of slaves to foreign nations, and
preventing foreigners from fitting out vessels for the slave-trade in the ports of the United
States. The patriot, the philosopher, and the statesman, look to this spot, where the legislative
authority of the Republic has an uncontrolled operation, for that perfect system of laws, which
shall at once develope the wisdom of the government, and display the justice and benevolence
of its policy.

Is it not an incongruous exhibition to ourselves, as well as to foreigners who may visit the
seat of the government of the nation, whose distinguishing characteristic is its devotion to
freedom, whose constitution proclaims that all men are born free, to behold, on the one hand,
the representatives of the people, asserting, with impassioned eloquence, the unalienable rights
of man; and, on the other, to see our fellow men, children of the same Almighty Father, heirs
like ourselves of immortality, doomed, for a difference of complexion, themselves and their
posterity, to hopeless bondage?

Deeply impressed with this sentiment, your memorialists do earnestly, but respectfully, request
your honourable body, to take into your serious consideration, the situation of Slavery in
the District of Columbia; to devise a plan for its gradual, but certain abolition, within the
limits of your exclusive legislation; and to provide that all children born of slaves, after
a determinate period, shall be free.

When we reflect on the praiseworthy regard shown to the rights of man by the Republics of South
America, in their public acts respecting Slavery, we cherish a hope that the United States
will emulate their example, so far as the constitution will allow; and thus assist in hastening
the period, when our country will no longer afford the advocates of despotism arguments in
its defence, drawn from the inconsistency of Republicans;--when it will no longer furnish an
exemplification of the truth, that those who are most zealous in asserting political and religious
liberty for themselves, are too prone to trample on the claims of others to those blessings.

The evils of slavery, and its injustice, abstractedly considered, are so generally admitted
by the citizens of all the states, that we deem it unnecessary to adduce arguments for their
proof. A favourable occasion for circumscribing these evils, and discountenancing this injustice,
is, we conceive, now offered to Congress, in the power and opportunity of legislating for the
newly acquired territory of the Floridas.

The first Congress after the adoption of the American Constitution, composed partly of the
framers of that instrument, having, with great unanimity, forbidden the introduction of slaves
into the territory northwest of the Ohio; and more than three-fourths of the last Congress,
having, after a full discussion of the constitutionality of the act, voted in favour of restricting
the migration of slaves to another territory of the United States; the right of imposing such
a restriction with regard to the Floridas, appears sufficiently established. Such being the
case, we beseech you, by your duty to that Almighty Being who controls the destinies of nations,
to strive to mitigate and limit an evil, so universally acknowledged and deplored. And may
you, from so doing, reap a satisfaction, beyond any to be derived from possessing the fruits
of the industry of thousands--the satisfaction of having been governed, in your conduct, by
the principles of reason, humanity, and religion!

Though the motives already urged, appear sufficient to induce a prohibition of the further
introduction of slaves into the Floridas, yet we will briefly mention some additional ones,
supposed to possess considerable force.

The vacant lands within the new states and territories, have been looked upon as a field of
promise,--a common patrimony for all the sons of the Republic who may choose to partake of
it. The introduction of many slaves into a territory, will totally prevent the settlement of
free labourers within it. As the states, adapted to the cultivation of the valuable staples,
cotton, sugar, and tobacco, having been hitherto open to the migration of slaves, it appears
but equitable, now to reserve a district, for the free labourer to occupy in the culture of
these articles. It is but just, that the citizens of those states where slavery is interdicted,
should be enabled, without a sacrifice of their principles, to obtain a portion of the profits
arising from the settlement of those new lands, which are suitable for rearing such products
as are most in demand, and are, consequently, the most lucrative.

Signed on behalf, and by order of the American Convention, held at New York, the 28th of November,
1821.[10]

TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES, IN CONGRESS ASSEMBLED. But
that Congress, one of the greatest and most dignified bodies the world ever beheld having but
limited jurisdiction, were unable to do more than to proclaim these truths, as the basis of
the government they were about to establish. The Constitution since framed, has delegated no
authority to the General Government to enforce their views in relation to slavery, existing
in any of the States; but that instrument, so far as it respects the District of Columbia,
has invested Congress with an unrestrained privilege.

Within this District, however, slavery yet exists; many of the African race, purchased for
a distant market, are concentrated here, where the sounds of the clanking fetters mingle with
the voice of American statesmen, legislating for a free people!

We, therefore, most respectfully, but most earnestly, entreat your attention to the subject
of slavery in the District of Columbia; and especially we solicit that your honorable body
may designate a period by law, after which no child, born within the District, shall be held
a slave. We respectfully submit that the honor of our common country, a decent respect for
the opinions of mankind, and the strong injunctions of Christianity, alike call for your interference
upon this momentous subject.

                                   WM. RAWLE, President.[11]

    Edwin P. Atlee, Secretary,
  Philadelphia, Oct. 1827.

The eminent rank, which these United States have so rapidly attained among nations, is mainly
attributable to the high dignity and undeviateing rectitude of their public proceedings--to
the equal rights and universal freedom of their citizens. Our enemies can cast on us but one
reproach, but, of that reproach they are not sparing. Why, they ask, if all men are born free
and equal, is the slavery of so large a portion of your inhabitants still continued among you?
To this enquiry no better answer can be given than, that at the period of our political emancipation,
the situation of the Southern States was supposed to render the measure of domestic emancipation
dangerous, if not impracticable. Yet those who had the misfortune to be subjected to this evil,
would willingly have commuted a species of precarious and artificial property for any other
more substantial in itself, and more consonant with their own moral feelings. It has since
been the frequent effort of Southern legislation to diminish the quantity of the evil, which,
it is was supposed, could not wholly be removed. Hence their concurrence in the suppression
of the slave trade, and hence, in some instances, their refusal to admit other slaves from
other States into their own precincts. In all similar efforts, we doubt not that the legislature
of the United States would accordingly coöperate, but the defect of power sometimes impedes
the wishes of benevolence and the dispensation of justice.

Aware that however consonant the opinions of your honourable body on this subject may be with
our own, your constitutional powers as thus limited, we abstain from preferring any request
to which you cannot accede; but we respectfully submit that in the late acquisition of an extensive
tract, in a great part yet unsettled, the absolute dominion and internal regulation of which
belong to Congress alone, the trial might be made, whether a southern latitude necessarily
requires the establishment of domestic slavery; or whether in the Territory of Florida, as
well as in other places, the cultivation of land, and the general prosperity of the country,
would not be eminently promoted by the use of free labor alone. If the few persons who are
already settled there, desire to retain their fellow creatures in bondage, let the example
of the superior productiveness of free labor be set before their eyes, and let Congress avail
itself of the happy opportunity to elevate the Territory itself to a pinnacle of prosperity,
while it supports our national character, in the preservation of human rights and consistent
justice.

Another consideration may be added to the foregoing. The extensive unsettled coast of this
Territory, and its vicinity to the West India Islands, render the evasion of the existing laws
against the slave trade easy--whereas, if it were settled by a free yeomanry, it would form
an effectual barrier to such illicit trade, and a strong protection to the slave holding states
against the invasion of a foreign enemy.

Our most respectful request is, that Congress will be pleased to prohibit, by law, the further
introduction of slaves into the Territory of Florida.

                                   WM. RAWLE, President.[12]

    Edwin P. Atlee, Secretary,
  Philadelphia, Oct. 1827.

TO THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES IN CONGRESS ASSEMBLED.

Your memorialists, without presuming to question the dignity, superior wisdom, and qualifications
of your honourable body, would ask leave most respectfully to urge, as a sentiment, every day
gaining a wider spread, and a deeper root, in the best feelings of freemen, that slavery is
alike derogatory to the present enlightened condition of man, and a solecism in the institutions
of our country: without, in any degree, wishing to appeal to the prejudices, either sectarian
or geographical, of any portion of your honourable body, your memorialists cannot consent to
withhold themselves from the influence of the irresistible current, manifest in the march of
mind, towards perfection, and are therefore free to acknowledge, that they cannot, as consistent
republicans, omit to raise their voices, in a respectful petition to their government on behalf
of the sufferings, the privations, and the unmerited degradation of their fellow-men the colored
people of America.

That the several states in this confederation, are, to a certain constitutional extent, sovereign
and independent, is readily admitted; but that their independence is qualified by the federal
constitution, is equally certain. No state, has a right to injure or destroy the fair fame
of the republic: and no state has a right, unnecessarily to jeopardize the peace of prosperity
of any other state. And that all the states, and all the people of each and every state in
the union, are indissolubly bound to submit to the majority, is a fundamental principle of
the union.

With these preliminary remarks, your memorialists will ask your paternal and special attention
to the subject of slavery in the District of Columbia. This District, the seat of the national
councils, and the common property of the whole republic, is by the constitution of the country,
under your immediate care, and exclusive government--and to the combined wisdom, patriotism
and prudence of your honourable body, is the common mind turned, with intense anxiety, knowing
that nothing can exempt any portion of us from the shame and mortification that may attach
to the character of its public laws and institutions; while nothing can prevent their participation
in the splendour and renown of its wisdom, prosperity, and happiness. The District of Columbia,
then, being the common property of the nation, the nation has an indubitable right, and it
is consistent with the fitness of things, to have the institutions and the laws of the District,
conformably to the aggregate sentiment of the whole people. The clearly expressed public opinion
is against the continuance of slavery--and, by every rule of right, slavery should cease, as
soon as practicable, within the national domain.

Under a full conviction of the truth of this doctrine, and the justice of their cause, your
memorialists ask of your honourable body, the immediate enactment of such laws as will ensure
the abolition of slavery within the District of Columbia, at the earliest period that may be
deemed safe and expedient, according to the wisdom of Congress. They ask this, conscientiously
believing that this is the sentiment and expectation of the nation: and believing furthermore,
that the example will be gradually followed by many of the southern States, as the evils, impolicy,
and injustice of slavery are more and more developed.

Commending you and themselves, with the best interests of humanity, to the mercies of a just
God, your memoralists very respectfully and earnestly entreat your prompt attention to the subject.

                         Signed by direction of the Convention.[13]

The following Memorial was reported by Mr. Kesley, and having been amended, was adopted as follows:

TO THE HON. THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, OF THE UNITED STATES, IN CONGRESS ASSEMBLED.

The Memorial of the American Convention, &c,

Respectfully sheweth--That your memorialists, citizens of the United States, feel grateful
to that Divine Providence, who hath so gloriously protected this nation in the enjoyment of
all the privileges of freemen; and whose parental care still preserves to us untrammelled,
the right of conscience, and affords to our free citizens all needful facilities in the pursuit
and enjoyment of as full a share of happiness as the present condition of man is susceptible
of. But while thus enjoying all the blessings of Heaven's richest bounty, your memorialists
have viewed with deep regret and heartfelt sorrow, the dark stain on our national character,
which is inflicted by the existence of slavery in the District of Columbia. That district being
the common property of the nation, and immediately under the control of congress; whatever
enormity may be legally permitted therein, becomes the common concern of the whole confederacy.
Furthermore if slavery be an evil both moral and political as is generally admitted at the
present day, it would seem that the whole nation becomes implicated in its support, so long
as it remains sanctioned by law in that district which is the seat of our government, and depository
of our rights. Your memorialists therefore, feeling in common with many thousands of their
fellow citizens, unwilling to sanction so great an evil, and desirous to do all that is in
their power towards its removal, beg leave, earnestly, yet respectfully, to urge the consideration
of this subject, on the attention of congress.

Your memorialists are aware that difficulties are found in the way of an immediate emancipation
of those slaves now existing; arising out of a supposed right of property in those who hold
them; as well as from a disqualification for self-government on the part of the slaves themselves,
but which would be entirely obviated by an enactment providing that from and after a given
date all persons born within the district, shall be free at a given age. By the enactment of
such a law the wishes of a very large proportion of the individuals represented by your honourable
body, it is believed would be met; and that so much at least, ought to be done by the national
legislature, seems to be demanded not only by the claims of humanity and justice, but also
by those of patriotism and consistency. Amongst the first acts of the congress of this Union,
was one to abolish the African slave trade; and our whole existence as a nation is based on
the principle that "all men are created equal;" and shall the congress of these states at the
present day, hesitate to declare, that henceforth and forever, the child that is born within
the limits of its special legislation, shall breathe an atmosphere of liberty?

Under a full conviction that the true interest of the nation requires the interposition of
congress in this important matter; and with a full and entire reliance on the wisdom of your
honorable body; your memorialists decline any argument to prove the justice or reasonableness
of the prayer, or to show the obligation that lies upon the legislature of this happy country,
to interpose its authority in behalf of the offspring of these subjects of oppression, and
thus remove the odium which attaches to the American name by the existence of slavery in the
national domain.

Your memorialists would also intreat your attention to the necessity of passing laws for the
prevention of kidnapping, and the scenes of cruelty connected with the slave trade in the District
of Columbia, until its final abolition.

This district, from its central situation, has become a depot of slaves, purchased and introduced
by dealers from other states, and here incarcerated till the time of their transportation arrives.
In near view from the capital, are private jails, from whose walls issue the agonizing cries
of those separated from kindred and friends, revolting to every citizen and philanthropist.
Here, through the defect of existing laws, facilities are afforded persons denominated slave
traders, to consign to perpetual bondage those who are entitled to freedom after a term of
years, and the people regard with abhorrence and pain, a traffic extensively carried on by
those who prefer wealth to the love and esteem of mankind.

In this district whether its citizens be the friends or opponents of the abolition of slavery,
they regard this traffic as alike dishonorable to our character as Americans and Christians,
and demanding the interposition of the government. The honor of our common country, a respect
for the opinions of mankind, the ardent desire of our patriots and statesmen to remove the
curse of slavery entailed on us while colonies, when it can successfully be done, call for
your interference on this momentous subject.[14]

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE AMERICAN CONVENTION, &c.--The committee appointed to draft a memorial to the legislatures
of the several states praying that their representatives in Congress may be requested, and
their senators instructed to use their exertions to produce the passage of an act for the gradual
abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia,

Respectfully report, That they have prepared and herewith present the draft of such a memorial
for the consideration of the Convention.

                                   JAMES OSWALD GRIM,
                                                 Chairman.

December 11, 1829.

Respectfully Represents,--That feeling a strong solicitude to advance the object for which
they are associated, your memorialists approach your honorable body for its concurrence and
aid upon a matter which they conceive to be of great interest to the American people. That
the existence of slavery within the United States is a great evil and one for which an adequate
remedy is, of all national objects the most to be desired, is a truth in which the whole body
of our fellow-citizens have for a long time acquiesced; but whether its ultimate and entire
removal is ever to be affected, compatibly with that justice to the parties concerned upon
which it should be based, is a problem that remains to be solved, but to which philanthropists
are now daily directing their attention.

The success, however which has attended the efforts of many of the States of the Union, who
at an early period of our national history were encumbered by the same evil in a lesser degree
but who have since been successful in removing it, induce a hope in your memorialists that
slavery may be abolished in the District of Columbia. That if possible it ought to be, some
interesting considerations of a local character, peculiarly dictate. The significant and peculiar
silence discovered upon the face of the constitutional compact of the land, upon the great
subject of human servitude with which the country then was burthened, the care which was observed
by the sages, who framed the instrument, not to employ a term in its structure which might
in after years and in times of universal freedom, be appealed to for the purpose of accusation
or reproach, enjoin it, we think as a strong and imperative duty to their successors to remove
this growing evil from the seat of the counciles of the nation and the limits emphatically
of the national domain. Without therefore attempting to interfere with the exclusive duties
of state sovereignties, it is incumbent we think upon national legislators, to give effect
to the noble and benign spirit of the great charter under which they are convened, by devising
and enacting measures for the gradual emancipation of all who are in a state of servitude in
the District of Columbia. Nor can we for a moment believe that it is a subject upon which local
situation can give rise to any diversity of sentiment among Americans at large. The dictates
of patriotic pride and of national consistency must have the same force with all of them.

The people of these states have cause to be distinguished for numerous occasions upon which,
and that too in many instances by discarding all interested considerations they have sought
the establishment of great national principles. Without advertising to the events connected
with the origin of their independence, further than to say that they were founded in a regard
for free principles in the abstract, more than in any practical evil under which they were
suffering, we may mention the extension of the principles of free trade, the abolition of private
warfare on the ocean, the denunciation of the African slave trade as piracy, &c. as propositions
by which our country has endeavoured to discharge its duty in the great family of nations.
From a people thus naturally disposed, what may not be expected? What circumstances of accident
or temporary advantage will be able to stifle the strengthening voice of freedom and manly justice?

The friends of Abolition must indeed expect that the object can only be obtained by very gradual
means, but a period no matter how distant, for the certain operation of any principle which
may have the desired effect, must afford a great degree of satisfaction to every friend of
equal rights and every well wisher of the reputation of his country.

This object however, cannot be obtained except perhaps at a distance of time now invisible,
unless the wishes of the states with regard to it are audibly expressed. Congress have been
heretofore memorialized on this subject, but as they were not guided by any expression of the
wishes of their constituents, no satisfactory result was produced. But the great body of the
American people never can be indifferent to a matter of this nature, and the friends of the
cause of Abolition have taken measures to draw the attention of Congress once more to it.

Your memorialists therefore respectfully request your Honorable body to instruct your senators
and request your representatives in Congress, to use all their effort for the passage of a
law, which may have for its end the gradual abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia,
upon principles of justice and a regard to the rights of individuals.

Thomas Earle presented the follow report, which was read and accepted Viz. It appears extremely
doubtful to your committee whether such a measure would in any degree accelerate entire emancipation.
The proposition moreover, has not received that degree of public approbation which is necessary
to justify any expectation of its speedy adoption.

Some individuals have believed it perfectly safe and judicious, to obtain, if practicable,
legislative enactments for the immediate liberation of all slaves. Propositions of this nature
are met by a reprobation so universal on the part of the citizens of those states where slavery
exists, who have undoubtedly the best means of judging of the probable consequences, that it
may be considered certain they will not be adopted. Gradual abolition is the only mode which
at present appears likely to receive the public sanction.

Another proposition has been that those who are not owners of slaves should abstain from the
products of slave labour, and thus by destroying the market compel emancipation. Your committee
are of opinion that it would be far easier to persuade the majority of the people to pass laws
for the abolition of slavery than to break off all commercial intercourse with slave holders.
The more practicable measure would render the less practicable, unnecessary.

It seems probable, however, that the example of individuals who, from conscientious motives,
abstain from the produce of slavery, will have its uses in exciting public attention to the
nature and magnitude of the evil which leads to these instances of self-denial.

It has been strenuously urged that there is less pecuniary profit in the employment of slave
labour, than in that of freemen, and that the extensive promulgation of this truth will be
effective in inducing slave holders, from motives of interest, to consent to emancipation.
Although this doctrine has been promulgated for several years, facts have not been adduced
sufficient to carry general conviction to the minds of those interested. Unless some evidence
of a more conclusive or effectual nature can be adduced, it appears that little good can be
expected from the agitation of this matter.

But in whatever degree the question of immediate pecuniary profit may be unsettled, the evils
of slavery in affecting the morals and happiness of society, in abridging public and private
enterprize, in promoting idleness and extravagance, and in accelerating the impoverishment
of land, are sufficiently capable of demonstration, and are indeed freely admitted by many
slave holders. To continue to call the attention of the people to these effects, will undoubtedly
be useful in the furtherance of the grand object of our aim.

The passage of laws by our state legislatures, fixing a certain period after which all shall
be born free, or shall be free at a certain age, is a proposed measure which has formerly received
the sanction of this Convention. It is analagous to those which have already been adopted in
some of our states, and it is that by which the final extinction of slavery will probably be
effected throughout our country. But it seems unlikely that those states where slaves are very
numerous, will consent to the measure, until the proportion of slaves has been considerably
reduced by other means. It can hardly be expected that the whites, where they are a minority,
will, at any near period of time, consent to surrender political power into the hands of a
race which they are accustomed to look upon as inferior and degraded, or that they will be
free from apprehension of a contest for property as the probable result. History furnishes
no instance of the passage of a law for abolishing slavery in a nation where the slaves at
the time of its passage were nearly equal in number to the freemen. We have no evidence to
justify the assumption, that mankind in future will act differently. The condition of some
of our states, never-the-less, is such, that measures of this kind may with great propriety
be urged, and kept constantly in view of the public.

Appeals to a sense of justice, and the dictates of religion, operating on individuals to produce
voluntary emancipation, have been the chief means by which slavery has been abolished or greatly
reduced, in most countries where it once extensively existed. Such were the means of the liberation
of serfs in Great Britain and other European countries.[15] They are those which have produced
the emancipation of most of the free coloured people now existing in the United States. They
are those which must be looked to, for so far diminishing the evil, as to produce that state
of society in which the passage of laws for complete abolition may be obtained. But unfortunately
a sense of danger, mingled with other motives or interest, has produced the enactment of laws
in most of the slave holding states, prohibiting or greatly limiting the exercise of benevolent
feelings in this way. The repeal of these laws must be the first or an early measure towards
the completion of the great work.

It has been supposed that adequate provision of the colonization of emancipated persons in
Africa, Hayti, or other foreign or domestic territory, would tend to produce the repeal of
those laws, as well as of those which restrict the education of slaves, and would thus pave
the way for the adoption of laws for complete emancipation. If, in this way, the number of
slaves could be kept stationary, while that of the free whites should continue to increase,
the relative proportions would ere long be obtained which would justify the hopes of legislative
interference. The interference of legislatures does not depend so much on the number of slaves,
as upon their proportion to the free inhabitants. This position is illustrated by the fact
that in New York where slavery is now extinct, the number of slaves in 1820 was ten thousand
and eighty-eight, while in Delaware, where no laws for emancipation have been passed, the number
was only four thousand five hundred and nine.

We are informed that a conviction of the injurious effects of the presence of free blacks,
is general in the slave-holding states, even perhaps among those citizens who have no property
invested in slaves. We are also assured and believe that there are great numbers of persons
in those states who would emancipate their slaves, if a suitable asylum abroad were provided
for them; and that the number of individuals of this description is likely greatly to increase
if ample means of emigration are provided.[16]

The question therefore arises, whether colonization to any considerable extent is practicable.
The solution of this question depends, in a degree, upon the expense, and the means which there
is reason to hope may be commanded. The public mind in the greater portion of our country appears
more favorable to colonization than to any other proposed means of emancipation, as may be
gathered from the resolutions and laws adopted by Congress, and by various State Legislatures,
as well as from inquiry into the sentiments of private individuals. Consequently, if adequate
colonization could be effected by the national government without materially embarrassing its
operations, or requiring the imposition of new taxes upon the people, there is reason to hope
for its realization. The question of expense, and practicability is, we apprehend, too often
decided hastily, and without those accurate calculations which can alone justify a positive
conclusion.

We will therefore state the results of some of our inquiries. The number of slaves in the United
States is rather under two millions:[17] and the annual increase is something less than two
and a half per centum on the population of the preceding year.[18] The total increase per annum,
is therefore short of fifty thousand. The expense of transportation to Africa in merchant vessels
will not exceed thirty dollars per head, and to Hayti from ten to fifteen dollars per head.
The expense of transporting the increase, half to each of the above named countries, would
therefore be from one million to one million one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars yearly.
If we add two dollars per head for corn to maintain the emigrants until they can provide for
themselves, the total expense will not exceed one and one fourth million of dollars per annum.

The average annual revenue of the national government may be estimated at twenty-three millions;[19]
and the annual expenditure exclusive of the public debt, is about twelve millions. As the public
debt will be extinct in four or five years, there will shortly be a surplus revenue of about
eleven millions yearly. One eighth of this sum will be sufficient for transporting the whole
increase of slave population.

Again: the annual expenditure of the Naval Department of the United States, was estimated in
1827 at $4,263,877, and in 1828 at $4,420,000. This expenditure is more than treble that of
the same department, at some periods of our history. Without expressing any opinion of the
propriety of this expenditure, a question not proper for this Convention to decide, we may
remark that rational men will readily admit that it would be wiser to reduce the expenditure
one half, and abolish slavery, than to continue both the expenditure and the servitude. A reduction
of one half in the naval expenditures would produce a fund of $2,200,000 per annum; a sum sufficient
to transport to Africa and Hayti, ninety thousand slaves per annum, or forty thousand more
than the annual increase. We offer this observation merely in illustration of the ease with
which the government can command the necessary funds without any sacrifice that is not greatly
overbalanced by the importance of the subject. There would, however, be no occasion for retrenching
any of the present expenditures of the government.

It has been suggested that the public vessels of the nation, most of which are useless during
peace, should be employed in the transportation of emancipated persons. The number of these
vessels is about fifty, and the average number of persons which they could transport at a voyage,
may be estimated at one thousand, although the ships of the line, of which there are twelve
built and building, can transport two thousand five hundred each, at a voyage. These vessels
going one half to Africa, and one half to Hayti, and the former making two and the latter four
voyages per year, would transport one hundred and fifty thousand persons per annum, or three
times the increase of slaves; and would at this rate extinguish slavery in twenty years. The
whole increase of slaves might therefore be transported in public vessels, without interfering
with other national objects, or very materially increasing the national expenses.

We will now consider the effect of transporting the increase. The present population of the
slave holding states is about 5,800,000, of which above 3,800,000, are freemen; perhaps from
one third to one half the free people are interested in slave property. If the increase of
slaves were colonized, in about twenty-five years there would be in the slave states, seven
millions of free people to two millions of free people to the above number of slaves, or a
proportion of ten to one. The consequent increased ease, safety, and probability of obtaining
laws for total emancipation, is manifest.

Thus the practicability of great benefit, with little sacrifice, from the aid of government
in the work of emigration, is very apparent. A great recommendation of the measure arises from
the fact, that it is the only efficient one which is likely to be speedily sanctioned by the
people; and is the only one by which voluntary emancipation, in most of the slave holding states,
can be effected.

Even if colonization should not be adopted to the extent of carrying away the whole increase,
it ought still to be encouraged. It is considered a great and good work to have obtained by
law, the emancipation of about fourteen or fifteen thousand persons in New York and Pennsylvania.
If so, the emancipation of no more than that number, by aid of emigration to suitable countries,
would also be a work worthy the united efforts of the friends of abolition.

Your committee do not look to the transportation of the whole coloured population from this
country, at any period. Emancipation will be effected without it. But partial emigration may
greatly aid the cause; particularly in its early stages, by preparing the way for the repeal
of the laws against education and against voluntary emancipation.

Under the influence of the foregoing considerations your committee would recommend, that the
friends of emancipation persevere in their efforts to convince the whole community of the pernicious
effects of slavery on the morals, the enterprize, and the happiness of a people.

That they continue in temperate and conciliatory language to illustrate the inconsistency of
bondage, with sound political doctrines, as well as with the obligations of justice and religion.

That they constantly endeavour to procure the repeal of those laws which restrict the education
and emancipation of slaves.

That they exert themselves, particularly in the states where slaves are the least numerous,
to procure the speedy passage of laws for gradual abolition.

That they endeavour to procure from the National Government the appropriation of adequate funds
to aid the voluntary emigration of all emancipated people of colour, to any country where a
suitable asylum may be found: and that, as an auxiliary means, they petition the state legislature
for the passage of resolutions approbatory of such measure.

That they cordially aid in any just mode of promoting abolitions which is favourably received
by the people, without insisting on a preference of other modes, which might be abstractedly
the best, but are not likely to be generally adopted.--All of which is respectfully submitted.

                                   On behalf of the Committee,[20]
                                                T. EARLE, Chairman.
  December 11th, 1829.

TO THE CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.

               Friends and Fellow-citizens,

United to you by the ties of citizenship, and partakers with you of the blessings of a free
government, we take the liberty of addressing you upon a subject, highly interesting to the
credit and prosperity of the United States.

It is the glory of our country to have originated a system of opposition to the commerce in
that part of our fellow-creatures, who compose the nations of Africa.

Much has been done by the citizens of some of the states to abolish this disgraceful traffic,
and to improve the condition of those unhappy people, whom the ignorance, or the avarice of
our ancestors had bequeathed to us as slaves; but the evil still continues, and our country
is yet disgraced by laws and practices, which level the creature man with a part of the brute
creation.

Many reasons concur in persuading us to abolish domestic slavery in our country.

It is inconsistent with the safety of the liberties of the United States.

Freedom and slavery cannot long exist together. An unlimited power over the time, labour, and
posterity of our fellow-creatures, necessarily unfits men for discharging the public and private
duties of citizens of a republic.

It is inconsistent with sound policy; in exposing the states which permit it, to all those
evils which insurrections, and the most resentful war have introduced into one of the richest
islands in the West-Indies.

It is unfriendly to the present exertions of the inhabitants of Europe, in favour of liberty.
What people will advocate freedom, with a zeal proportioned to its blessings, while they view
the purest republic in the world tolerating in its bosom a body of slaves?

In vain has the tyranny of kings been rejected, while we permit in our country a domestic despotism,
which involves, in its nature, most of the vices and miseries that we have endeavoured to avoid.

It is degrading to our rank as men in the scale of being. Let us use our reason and social
affections for the purposes for which they were given, or cease to boast a preeminence over
animals, that are unpolluted with our crimes.

But higher motives to justice and humanity towards our fellow-creatures remain yet to be mentioned.

But if this view of the enormity of the evil of domestic slavery should not affect us, there
is one consideration more which ought to alarm and impress us, especially at the present juncture.

It is a violation of a divine precept of universal justice, which has, in no instance, escaped
with impunity.

The crimes of nations, as well as of individuals, are often designated in their punishment;
and we conceive it to be no forced construction, of some of the calamities which now distress
or impend our country, to believe that they are the measure of evils, which we have meted to
others.

The ravages committed upon many of our fellow-citizens by the Indians, and the depredations
upon the liberty and commerce of others of the citizens of the United States by the Algerines,
both unite in proclaiming to us, in the most forcible language, "to loose the bands of wickedness,
to break every yoke, to undo heavy burthens, and to let the oppressed go free."

We shall conclude this address by recommending to you,

First, To refrain immediately from that species of rapine and murder which has improperly been
softened with the name of the African trade. It is Indian cruelty, and Algerine piracy, in
another form.

Secondly, To form Societies, in every state, for the purpose of promoting the abolition of
the slave-trade, of domestic slavery, the relief of persons unlawfully held in bondage, and
for the improvement of the condition of Africans, and their descendants amongst us.

The Societies, which we represent, have beheld, with triumph, the success of their exertions,
in many instances, in favour of their African brethren; and, in a full reliance upon the continuance
of divine support and direction, they humbly hope, their labours will never cease, while there
exists a single slave in the United States.[21]

TO THE CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.

Friends and Fellow Citizens,

VARIOUS Societies having been formed, in different parts of the Union, for the purpose of promoting
the Abolition of Slavery, they have several times met in convention to deliberate on the best
means of furthering the humane work they have undertaken.--We, the seventh association of Delegates
from these bodies, now convened in the city of Philadelphia, appealing to the Searcher of hearts
for the rectitude of our intentions, believe it our duty to address you with a few remarks,
to which we solicit your candid consideration and attention. Believing as we do, that the benevolent
Author of nature has made no essential distinction in the human race, and that all the individuals
of the great family of mankind have a common claim upon the general fund of natural bounties,
we have never hesitated to avow the objects of our institutions, now the honest means by which
we hope for their ultimate attainment. Yet we are sensible that many of our fellow citizens
have laboured under mistaken impressions on both these points, and have ascribed to us views
as inconsistent with the policy of our country, as with our real prospects. It is true we contemplate
the deliverance from slavery of all the blacks and people of color in these states, sooner
or later, by such means as your humanity, and the wisdom of our rulers may suggest; and though
we think the existing laws of some of the states unnecessarily severe; yet we pointedly disavow
any wish to contravene them, while they remain in force, or to hazard the peace and safety
of the community by the adoption of ill advised and precipitate measures.

In common with the rest of our fellow citizens, we sincerely deplore the late attempts at insurrection
by some of the slaves of the southern states, and participate in the dreadful sensations the
inhabitants in their vicinity must have felt on so awful an occasion. It is fervently to be
hoped that they may induce a weighty consideration of the source of the evil, and of the best
means of its future prevention. We are convinced, that so long as a relation subsists between
cause and effect, and the present policy of those states is pursued, so long the deprecated
calamity is to be dreaded; and while we all revolt with horror from the anticipation of an
organization on the part of the slaves, we conceive there is a certain state of degradation
and misery to which they may be reduced, a certain point of desperation to which the human
mind may be brought, and beyond which it cannot be driven.--If then the premonitory signs of
this crisis have appeared, if a recurrence of the desperate feelings which gave birth to the
design is to be so awfully dreaded, ought not the attention of every humane mind to be exerted
in devising adequate means for averting so enormous a danger? We advance with confidence our
firm belief, a belief founded on mature reflection, that to be effectual they must be in many
respects different from those which have heretofore been adopted. An amelioration of the present
situation of the slaves, and the adoption of a system of gradual emancipation, while it would
tend to remove the charge of inconsistency, between the constitutional declaration, and the
legal provisions of some of the states; would also be an effectual security against revolt.
If the severity of their treatment were lessened, and the hope of freedom for them or their
posterity were held forth as the reward of good behaviour, the slaves would be bound by personal
interest to be civil, orderly, and industrious. It has been argued, that they are not qualified
to enjoy the blessings of freedom, even under a gradual emancipation: but are they not rational
creatures, and why will not the same method which have civilized others, in the course of time
also civilize them? A principal mean of effecting this purpose, would be to instruct them in
the duties and obligations of religion, morality, and social justice. We find that the cultivated
inhabitants of different countries and even the individuals of the same country, have very
different ideas on these subjects. Is it therefore to be wondered at that the poor illiterate
blacks, who are so little instructed in the principles of Christianity, and strangers to the
refined sentiments which result from education; is it, we ask, to be wondered at, that they
are susceptible of error and delusion?

Fellow citizens of the southern states! we invite your calm and dispassionate attention to
the subject; and, with the aid of that Being to whom we must look for instruction in this,
as in all our other undertakings, we firmly trust that you will be enabled to devise such measures
as may terminate in your own peace, and security, and the benefit of that unfortunate race
whose miseries excite our sympathy, and the improvement of whose situation is the object of
our anxious solicitude and care.

Another subject that required general attention, is the inhuman crime of kidnapping, which,
in some parts of our country, has recently increased to an alarming degree. The friends of
liberty view with horror the perpetuation of this abominable practice, and the holders of slaves
have no security for them, as property, during its continuance. There is therefore a common
interest in the removal of the grievance; and we confidently look for the assistance of the
humane of all descriptions in detecting and bringing to punishment, these shameless violations
of the rights of their fellow-men.

It is also a lamentable fact, that notwithstanding the general repugnance of all well disposed
citizens to any further importation of Africans into this country, or concern in the infamous
commerce in the persons of our fellow creatures, notwithstanding the prohibitions of the laws
of most of the states on this subject, and the strict instructions of those of the general
government, upwards of two hundred vessels, belonging to our own citizens, are employed in
the purchase and transportation of slaves from Africa to the West-Indies, and the southern
parts of this country.

The rage for this traffic is so far extended by avarice, that many persons have risqued their
all in its pursuit; and it seems that nothing can stop the cruel and disgraceful enormities
which are thus committed, in violation of the dictates of humanity, and the laws and policy
of our country, but a more general activity and exertion on the part of good citizens, in the
discovery and prosecution of the offenders. So large a number of vessels are fitted out for
this trade, and sent to the coast of Africa from the eastern states, that we are induced earnestly
to call on our brethren of those parts, to aid in its suppression; and surely as they have
done away the evil of personal slavery among themselves, they cannot want inducements to enforce
the laws against such of their citizens as set them at defiance, by pursuing a prohibited commerce,
as shocking to the feelings of every benevolent mind, as it is offensive in the eyes of the
Almighty Ruler of the universe.

Finally, fellow citizens! as you value your own peace and that of your families; the quiet
and security of our country; the obligations of our holy religion; and the favor of an over
ruling Providence; let us entreat you to enter into the consideration of the subjects now submitted
to you. Assist in mitigating the present ills of personal slavery, by an amelioration of the
situation of slaves; lay the foundation for an eventual extinction of the mighty evil throughout
our land; commence a determined opposition to the wicked infractions of justice and the laws
of our country; and may the Divine blessing attend you, in every attempt that you may be encouraged
to make, for the good of your fellow men.[22]

CIRCULAR ADDRESS

TO THE ABOLITION AND MANUMISSION SOCIETIES IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

At the close of the session of 1821, the American Convention deem it proper to address you
on the important subjects which have occupied our attention.

In reviewing the labours of Abolition Societies in this country, we find much reason for congratulation.
The cause of truth and humanity has regularly advanced, in the minds of an enlightened community;
and nothing but perseverance, in presenting this subject to the public in its appropriate simplicity,
is requisite to promote its triumphant march over the prejudice, hostility, and opposition
of its enemies. To the perseverance of its advocates alone, may be imputed the great change
in the public opinion, in favour of the Abolition of Slavery, that has already been effected
in the Northern, Middle, and some of the Western States: and we confidently hope, that this
will ultimately produce a similar change in the South.

The best mode of effecting the abolition of slavery, so as to promote the interests and the
happiness of the slave, and to be satisfactory to the master, is a subject of difficult solution;
and one that has much engaged the attention of the Convention. However desirable a total emancipation
might be to the philanthropist, we cannot expect the speedy accomplishment of that event.

Although the subject of colonizing the free blacks, has been repeatedly considered and disapproved
by former Conventions; it has been revived, fully discussed, and, as we trust, definitively
decided by this, that such a colony, either in Africa or in our own country, would be incompatible
with the principles of our governments, and with the temporal and spiritual interests of the
blacks.

How far voluntary emigration to Hayti should be encouraged, is a question which we do not possess
sufficient information to decide; but which may receive much additional light from the correspondence
already directed to be instituted for that purpose. We think it worthy of consideration, how
far any measure should be recommended that may tend to draw from our country the most industrious,
moral, and respectable of its coloured population, and thus deprive others, less improved,
of the benefit of their example and advice.

Deeply injured as they have been by the whites, the coloured people certainly claim from us
some degree of retributive justice. And if our efforts succeed in improving their intellectual
and moral condition, and in imparting to them a correct knowledge of the only true God, we
shall do much towards compensating them for all the wrongs they have sustained. This object
can be best attained by their permanent resident in a Christian country, and under suitable
moral and religious instruction.

Influenced by a conviction of this truth, our attention has been directed to a gradual melioration
of their condition, and to the adoption of such measures as will conduce to their elevation
to a higher rank in society. We conceive that these objects may be promoted, by giving the
slaves an interest in the soil they cultivate, by placing them in relation to their masters,
in a situation somewhat similar to that in which the peasantry of Russia are placed in relation
to their landlords.

This plan has been successfully executed by an extensive planter in Barbadoes; and it was found
to conduce essentially to the promotion of his slaves. Should our southern planters be induced
to adopt a similar course, there is doubt, that the result would be equally favourable.

We think it particularly desirable, that the legislatures of the slave-holding states, should
be induced to fix a period after which all who are born of slaves shall be free. This is an
object which we ought never to lost sight of, until it is attained. Although this period should
be remote, and therefore no benefits be afforded to the present generation, yet an inestimable
benefit would thus be assured to posterity. Your Memorialists are convinced, that a strong
simultaneous effort of those who hold this sentiment in different sections of our country,
would imperiously engage the attention of Congress to this interesting subject; especially
if that effort were sanctioned and directed by the authority of the different state legislatures.
Impressed with this belief, we earnestly solicit your honourable body to use such means as
your wisdom and the spirit of our admirable constitution will sanction, in order to remove
this national reproach, and vindicate the purity and vigour of our republican institutions
from the reproaches of their enemies.

We are only known to foreign states as one great nation, of which the Federal Government is
the organ and representative; every state comprising the Union and all its inhabitants, are
compelled to endure the opprobium, however they may abhor, the guilt of holding their fellow
men in bondage. To permit the existence of slavery within the very sound of the voice of the
orator and statesman, while he is pleading the cause of Liberty, or uttering his boast of American
Independence upon the floor of Congress, is a flagrant inconsistency, which, in the view of
foreign nations, attaches equally to Massachusetts and Virginia! We entreat you, therefore,
by your regard for justice and the rights of man--by your religion, and the welfare of our
common country--by your respect for yourselves and for the honour of your constituents, not
to suffer the present session to elapse, without a recorded vote, which shall be your witness
to posterity, that, if the exclusive territory of the national government remains to be polluted
by the footsteps of a slave, it is because your exertions in the cause of liberty have been
unavailing.

Respectfully, but most earnestly, do your memorialists request your honourable body, seriously
to consider this subject; and if it shall appear to you advisable, let your senators be requested,
to bring the subject into the view of the Congress of the United States, enforced with the
commanding weight of your recommendation to an early and profound enquiry into the expediency
of the measure.

                                   W. RAWLE, President.[24]

THE FOLLOWING IS A CIRCULAR, PREPARED AND ISSUED BY THE ACTING COMMITTEE OF THE CONVENTION,
AND SELECTED AND ORDERED TO BE PLACED UPON THE MINUTES OF THE CONVENTION:

RESPECTED FRIEND,

