The modern married belle at a dinner is apt to be dressed in white, with much crystal trimming,
with feathers in her hair, and with diamonds on her neck and arms, and a pair of long, brown
Swedish gloves drawn up to her shoulders; a feather fan of ostrich feathers hangs at her side
by a ribbon or a chain of diamonds and pearls. The long, brown Swedish gloves are an anomaly;
they do not suit the rest of this exquisite dress, but fashion decrees that they shall be worn,
and therefore they are worn.

The fine, stately fashion of wearing feathers in the hair has returned, and it is becoming
to middle-aged women. It gives them a queenly air. Young girls look better for the simplest
head-gear; they wear their hair high or low as they consider becoming.

Monstrous and inconvenient bouquets are again the fashion, and a very ugly fashion it is. A
lady does not know what to do with her two or three bouquets at a musicale or a dinner, so
they are laid away on a table. The only thing that can be done is to sit after dinner with
them in her lap, and the prima donna at a musicale lays hers on the grand piano.

More and more is it becoming the fashion to have music at the end of a dinner in the drawing-room,
instead of having it played during dinner. Elocutionists are asked in to amuse the guests,
who, having been fed on terrapin and canvas-back ducks, are not supposed to be in a talking
mood. This may be overdone. Many people like to talk after dinner with the people who are thus
accidentally brought together; for in our large cities the company assembled about a dinner-table
are very often fresh acquaintances who like to improve that opportunity to know each other better.

We have spoken of the dress of ladies, which, if we were to pursue, would lead us into all
the details of velvet, satin, and brocade, and would be a departure from our subject; let us
therefore glance at the gentlemen at a modern, most modern, dinner. The vests are cut very
low, and exhibit a piqu, embroidered shirt front held by one stud, generally a cat's-eye; however,
three studs are permissible. White plain-pleated linen, with enamel studs resembling linen,
is also very fashionable. A few young men, sometimes called dudes--no one knows why--wear pink
coral studs or pearls, generally black pearls. Elderly gentlemen content themselves with plain-pleated
shirt-fronts and white ties, indulging even in wearing their watches in the old way, as fashion
has reintroduced the short vest-chain so long banished.

It is pleasant to see the old-fashioned gold chain for the neck reappearing. It always had
a pretty effect, and is now much worn to support the locket, cross, or medallion portrait which
ladies wear after the Louis Quinze fashion. Gold is more becoming to dark complexions than
pearls, and many ladies hail this return to gold necklaces with much delight.

Gentlemen now wear pearl-colored gloves embroidered in black to dinners, and do not remove
them until they sit down to table. Seal rings for the third finger are replacing the sunken
jewels in dead gold which have been so fashionable for several years for gentlemen.

All the ornamentation of the dinner-table is high this winter--high candlesticks, high vases,
high glasses for the flowers, and tall glass compotiers. Salt-cellars are looking up; and a
favorite device is a silver vase, about two inches high, with a shell for salt.

Silver and silver-gilt dishes, having been banished for five years, are now reasserting their
pre-eminent fitness for the modern dinner- table. People grew tired of silver, and banished
it to the plate- chest. Now all the old pieces are being burnished up and reappearing; and
happy the hostess who has some real old Queen Anne. As the silver dollar loses caste, the silver
soup tureen, or, as the French say, the soupiere (and it is a good word), rises in fashion,
and the teapot of our grandmothers resumes its honored place.

CHAPTER XXXIV. SUMMER DINNERS.

There is a season when the lingerers in town accept with pleasure an invitation to the neighboring
country house, where the lucky suburban cit likes to entertain his friends. It is to be doubted,
however, whether hospitality is an unmixed pleasure to those who extend it. With each blessing
of prosperity comes an attendant evil, and a lady who has a country house has always to face
the fact that her servants are apt to decamp in a body on Saturday night, and leave her to
take care of her guests as best she may. The nearer to town the greater the necessity for running
a servant's omnibus, which shall take the departing offender to the train, and speed the arrival
of her successor.

No lady should attempt to entertain in the country who has not a good cook and a very competent
waiter or waitress. The latter, if well trained, is in every respect as good as a man, and
in some respects more desirable; women-servants are usually quiet, neater than men-servants,
as a rule, and require less waiting upon. Both men and women should be required to wear shoes
that do not creak, and to be immaculately neat in their attire. Maid-servants should always
wear caps and white aprons, and men dress-coats, white cravats, and perfectly fresh linen.

As the dinners of the opulent, who have butler, waiters, French cook, etc., are quite able
to take care of themselves, we prefer to answer the inquiries of those of our correspondents
who live in a simple manner, with two or three servants, and who wish to entertain with hospitality
and without great expense.

The dining-room of many country houses is small, and not cheerfully furnished. The houses built
recently are improved in this respect, however, and now we will imagine a large room that has
a pretty outlook on the Hudson, carpeted with fragrant matting, or with a hard-wood floor,
on which lie India rugs. The table should be oval, as that shape brings guests near to each
other. The table-cloth should be of white damask, and as fresh as sweet clover, for dinner:
colored cloths are permissible only for breakfast and tea. The chairs should be easy, with
high, slanting backs. For summer, cane chairs are much the most comfortable, although those
covered with leather are very nice. Some people prefer arm-chairs at dinner, but the arms are
inconvenient to many, and, besides, take a great deal of room. The armless dinner-chairs are
the best.

Now, as a dinner in the country generally occurs after the gentlemen come from town, the matter
of light has to be considered. If our late brilliant sunsets do not supply enough, how shall
we light our summer dinners? Few country houses have gas. Even if they have, it would be very
hot, and attract mosquitoes.

Candles are very pretty, but exceedingly troublesome. The wind blows the flame to and fro;
the insects flutter into the light; an unhappy moth seats himself on the wick, and burning
into an unsightly cadaver makes a gutter down one side; the little red-paper shades take fire,
and there is a general conflagration. Yet light is positively necessary to digestion, and no
party can be cheerful without it. Therefore, try carcel or moderator lamps with pretty transparent
shades, or a hanging lamp with ground-glass shade. These lamps, filled with kerosene--and it
must be done neatly, so that it will not smell--are the best lamps for the country dinner.
If possible, however, have a country dinner by the light of day; it is much more cheerful.

Now for the ornamentation of the dinner. Let it be of flowers--wild ones, if possible, grasses,
clovers, buttercups, and a few fragrant roses or garden flowers. There is no end to the cheap
decorative china articles that are sold now for the use of flowers. A contemporary mentions
orchids placed in baskets on the shoulders of Arcadian peasants; lilies-of-the-valley, with
leaves as pale as their flowers, wheeled in barrows by Cupids or set in china slippers; crocuses
grown in a china pot shaped like a thumbed copy of Victor Hugo's "Notre Dame de Paris;" or
white tulips in a cluster of three gilt sabots, large enough to form a capital flower-stand,
mounted on gilt, rustic branches. Stout pitchers, glass bowls, china bowls, and even old teapots,
make pretty bouquet-holders. The Greek vase, the classic-shaped, old-fashioned champagne glass,
are, however, unrivalled for the light grasses, field daisies, and fresh garden flowers.

Pretty, modern English china, the cheap "old blue," the white and gold, or the French, with
a colored border, are all good enough for a country dinner; for if people have two houses,
they do not like to take their fragile, expensive china to the country. Prettily-shaped tureens
and vegetable dishes add very much to the comfort and happiness of the diners, and fortunately
they are cheap and easily obtained. Glass should always be thin and fine, and tea and coffee
cups delicate to the lip: avoid the thick crockery of a hotel.

For a country dinner the table should be set near a window, or windows, if possible; in fine
weather, in the hall or on the wide veranda. If the veranda have long windows, the servant
can pass in and out easily. There should be a side-board and a side, table, relays of knives,
forks and spoons, dishes and glasses not in use, and a table from which the servant can help
the soup and carve the joint, as on a hot day no one wishes to see these two dishes on the
table. A maid-servant should be taught by her mistress how to carve, in order to save time
and trouble. Soup for a country dinner should be clear bouillon, with macaroni and cheese,
creme d'asperge, or Julienne, which has in it all the vegetables of the season. Heavy mock-turtle,
bean soup, or ox-tail are not in order for a country dinner. If the lady of the house have
a talent for cookery, she should have her soups made the day before, all the grease removed
when the stock is cold, and season them herself.

It is better in a country house to have some cold dish that will serve as a resource if the
cook should leave. Melton veal, which can be prepared on Monday and which will last until Saturday,
is an excellent stand-by; and a cold boiled or roast ham should always be on the side-board.
A hungry man can make a comfortable dinner of cold ham and a baked potato.

Every country householder should try to have a vegetable garden, for pease, beans, young turnips,
and salads fresh gathered are very superior to those which even the best grocer furnishes.
And of all the luxuries of a country dinner the fresh vegetables are the greatest. Especially
does the tired citizen, fed on the esculents of the corner grocery, delight in the green pease,
the crisp lettuce, the undefiled strawberries. One old epicure of New York asks of his country
friends only a piece of boiled salt pork with vegetables, a potato salad, some cheese, five
large strawberries, and a cup of coffee. The large family of salads help to make the country
dinner delightful. Given a clear beef soup, a slice of fresh-boiled salmon, a bit of spring
lamb with mint sauce, some green pease and fresh potatoes, a salad of lettuce, or sliced tomatoes,
or potatoes with a bit of onion, and you have a dinner fit for a Brillat-Savarin; or vary it
with a pair of boiled chickens, and a jardiniere made of all the pease, beans, potatoes, cauliflower,
fresh beets, of the day before, simply treated to a bath of vinegar and oil and pepper and
salt. The lady who has conquered the salad question may laugh at the caprices of cooks, and
defy the hour at which the train leaves.

What so good as an egg salad for a hungry company? Boil the eggs hard and slice them, cover
with a mayonnaise dressing, and put a few lettuce leaves about the plate, and you have a sustaining
meal.

Many families have cold meats and warm vegetables for their midday dinner during the summer.
This is not healthy. Let all the dinner be cold if the meats are; and a dinner of cold roast
beef, of salad, and cold asparagus, dressed with pepper, oil, and vinegar, is not a bad meal.

It is better for almost everybody, however, to eat a hot dinner, even in hot weather, as the
digestion is aided by the friendly power of the caloric. Indeed dyspepsia, almost universal
with Americans, is attributed to the habit which prevails in this country above all others
of drinking ice-water.

Carafes of ice-water, a silver dish for ice, and a pair of ice- tongs, should be put on the
table for a summer dinner. For desserts there is an almost endless succession, and with cream
in her dairy, and a patent ice-cream freezer in her cuisine, the house-keeper need not lack
delicate and delicious dishes of berries and fruits. No hot puddings should be served, or heavy
pies; but the fruit tart is an excellent sweet, and should be made ... ravir; the pastry should
melt in the mouth, and the fruit be stewed with a great deal of sugar. Cream should be put
on the table in large glass pitchers, for it is a great luxury of the country and of the summer
season.

The cold custards, Charlotte-Russe, and creams stiffened with gelatine and delicately flavored,
are very nice for a summer dinner. So is home-made cake, when well made: this, indeed, is always
its only "excuse for being."

Stewed fruit is a favorite dessert in England, and the gooseberry, which here is but little
used, is much liked there. Americans prefer to eat fruit fresh, and therefore have not learned
to stew it. Stewing is, however, a branch of cookery well worth the attention of a first-class
house-keeper. It makes even the canned abominations better, and the California canned apricot
stewed with sugar is one of the most delightful of sweets, and very wholesome; canned peaches
stewed with sugar lose the taste of tin, which sets the teeth on edge, and stewed currants
are delicious.

Every house-keeper should learn to cook macaroni well. It is worth while to spend an hour at
Martinelli's, for this Italian staple is economical, and extremely palatable if properly prepared.
Rice, too, should have a place in a summer bill of fare, as an occasional substitute for potatoes,
which some people cannot eat.

For summer dinners there should never be anything on the table when the guests sit down but
the flowers and the dessert, the ice- pitchers or carafes, and bowls of ice, the glass, china,
and silver: the last three should all be simple, and not profuse.

Many families now, fearing burglars, use only plated spoons, knives, forks, and dishes at their
country houses. Modern plate is so very good that there is less objection to this than formerly;
but the genuine house-keeper loves the real silver spoons and forks, and prefers to use them.

The ostentatious display of silver, however, is bad taste at a country dinner. Glass dishes
are much more elegant and appropriate, and quite expensive enough to bear the title of luxuries.

Avoid all greasy and heavy dishes. Good roast beef, mutton, lamb, veal, chickens, and fresh
fish are always in order, for the system craves the support of these solids in summer as well
as in winter; but do not offer pork, unless in the most delicate form, and then in small quantities.
Fried salt pork, if not too fat, is always a pleasant addition to the broiled bird.

Broiled fish, broiled chicken, broiled ham, broiled steaks and chops, are always satisfactory.
The grid-iron made St. Lawrence fit for Heaven, and its qualities have been elevating and refining
ever since. Nothing can be less healthy or less agreeable to the taste at a summer dinner than
fried food. The frying-pan should have been thrown into the fire long ago, and burned up.

The house-keeper living near the sea has an ample store to choose from in the toothsome crab,
clam, lobster, and other crustacea. The fresh fish, the roast clams, etc., take the place of
the devilled kidneys and broiled bones of the winter. But every housewife should study the
markets of her neighborhood. In many rural districts the butchers give away, or throw to the
dogs, sweetbreads and other morsels which are the very essence of luxury. Calf's head is rejected
by the rural buyer, and a Frenchman who had the physiologie du go-t at his finger-ends, declared
that in a country place, not five miles from New York, he gave luxurious dinners on what the
butcher threw away.

CHAPTER XXXV. LUNCHEONS, INFORMAL AND SOCIAL.

The informal lunch is perhaps less understood in this country than in any other, because it
is rarely necessary. In the country it is called early dinner, children's dinner, or ladies'
dinner; in the city, when the gentlemen are all down town, then blossoms out the elaborate
ladies' lunch.

But in England, at a country house, and indeed in London, luncheon is a recognized and very
delightful meal, at which the most distinguished men and women meet over a joint and a cherry
tart, and talk and laugh for an hour without the restraint of the late and formal dinner.

It occupies a prominent place in the history of hospitality, and Lord Houghton, among others,
was famous for his unceremonious lunches. As it is understood to be an informal meal, the invitations
are generally sent only a short time before the day for which the recipient is invited, and
are written in the first person. Lord Houghton's were apt to be simply, "Come and lunch with
me to-morrow." At our prominent places of summer resort, ladies who have houses of their own
generally give their male friends a carte blanche invitation to luncheon. They are expected
to avail themselves of it without ceremony, and at Newport the table is always laid with the
"extra knife and fork," or two or three, as may be thought necessary. Ladies, however, should
be definitely asked to this meal as to others.

It is a very convenient meal, as it permits of an irregular number, of a superfluity of ladies
or gentlemen; it is chatty and easy, and is neither troublesome nor expensive.

The hour of luncheon is stated, but severe punctuality is not insisted upon. A guest who is
told that he may drop in at half-past one o'clock every day will be forgiven if he comes as
late as two.

Ladies may come in their hats or bonnets; gentlemen in lawn-tennis suits, if they wish. It
is incumbent upon the hostess but not upon the host to be present. It is quite immaterial where
the guests sit, and they go in separately, not arm-in-arm.

Either white or colored table-cloths are equally proper, and some people use the bare mahogany,
but this is unusual.

The most convenient and easy-going luncheons are served from the buffet or side-table, and
the guests help themselves to cold ham, tongue, roast beef, etc. The fruit and wine and bread
should stand on the table.

Each chair has in front of it two plates, a napkin with bread, two knives, two forks and spoons,
a small salt-cellar, and three glasses--a tumbler for water, a claret glass, and a sherry glass.

Bouillon is sometimes offered in summer, but not often. If served well, it should be in cups.
Dishes of dressed salad, a cold fowl, game, or hot chops, can be put before the hostess or
passed by the servant. Soup and fish are never offered at these luncheons. Some people prefer
a hot lunch, and chops, birds on toast, or a beefsteak, with mashed potatoes, asparagus, or
green pease, are suitable dishes.

It is proper at a country place to offer a full luncheon, or to have a cold joint on the sideboard;
and after the more serious part of the luncheon has been removed, the hostess can dismiss the
servants, and serve the ice-cream or tart herself, with the assistance of her guests. Clean
plates, knives, and forks should be in readiness.

In England a "hot joint" is always served from the sideboard. In fact, an English luncheon
is exactly what a plain American dinner was formerly--a roast of mutton or beef, a few vegetables,
a tart, some fruit, and a glass of sherry. But we have changed the practice considerably, and
now our luxurious country offers nothing plain.

In this country one waiter generally remains during the whole meal, and serves the table as
he would at dinner--only with less ceremony. It is perfectly proper at luncheon for any one
to rise and help himself to what he wishes.

Tea and coffee are never served after luncheon in the drawing-room or dining-room. People are
not expected to remain long after luncheon, as the lady of the house may have engagements for
the afternoon.

In many houses the butler arranges the luncheon, table with flowers or fruit, plates of thin
bread-and butter, jellies, creams, cakes, and preserves, a dish of cold salmon mayonnaise,
and decanters of sherry and claret. He places a cold ham or chicken on the sideboard, and a
pitcher of ice-water on a side-table, and then leaves the dining-room, and takes no heed of
the baser wants of humanity until dinner-time. An underman or footman takes the place of this
lofty being, and waits at table.

In more modest houses, where there is only a maid-servant or one man, all arrangements for
the luncheon and for expected guests should be made immediately after breakfast.

If the children dine with the family at luncheon, it, of course, becomes an important meal,
and should include one hot dish and a simple dessert.

It is well for people living in the country, and with a certain degree of style, to study up
the methods of making salads and cold dishes, for these come in so admirably for luncheon that
they often save a hostess great mortification. By attention to small details a very humble
repast may be most elegant. A silver bread-basket for the thin slices of bread, a pretty cheese-dish,
a napkin around the cheese, pats of butter in a pretty dish, flowers in vases, fruits neatly
served--these things cost little, but they add a zest to the pleasures of the table.

If a hot luncheon is served, it is not etiquette to put the vegetables on the table as at dinner;
they should be handed by the waiter. The luncheon-table is already full of the articles for
dessert, and there is no place for the vegetables. The hot entr,es or cold entr,es are placed
before the master or mistress, and each guest is asked what he prefers. The whole aspect of
luncheon is thus made perfectly informal.

If a lady gives a more formal lunch, and has it served ... la Russe, the first entr,e--let
us say chops and green pease--is handed by the waiter, commencing with the lady who sits on
the right hand of the master of the house. This is followed by vegetables. Plates having been
renewed, a salad and some cold ham can be offered. The waiter fills the glasses with sherry,
or offers claret. When champagne is served at lunch, it is immediately after the first dish
has been served, and claret and sherry are not then given unless asked for.

After the salad a fresh plate, with a dessert-spoon and small fork upon it, is placed before
each person. The ice-cream, pie, or pudding is then placed in front of the hostess, who cuts
it, and puts a portion on each plate. After these dainties have been discussed, a glass plate,
serviette, and finger-bowl are placed before each guest for fruit. The servant takes the plate
from his mistress after she has filled it, and hands it to the lady of first consideration,
and so on. When only members of the family are present at luncheon, the mistress of the house
is helped first.

Fruit tarts, pudding, sweet omelette, jellies, blancmange, and ice- cream are all proper dessert
for luncheon; also luncheon cake, or the plainer sorts of loaf-cake.

It is well in all households, if possible, for the children to breakfast and lunch with their
parents. The teaching of table manners cannot be begun too soon. But children should never
be allowed to trouble guests. If not old enough to behave well at table, guests should not
be invited to the meals at which they are present. It is very trying to parents, guests, and
servants.

When luncheon is to be an agreeable social repast, which guests are expected to share, then
the children should dine elsewhere. No mother succeeds better in the rearing of her children
than she who has a nursery dining-room, where, under her own eye, her bantlings are properly
fed. It is not so much trouble, either, as one would think.

Table mats are no longer used in stylish houses, either at luncheon or at dinner. The waiter
should have a coarse towel in the butler's pantry, and wipe each dish before he puts it on
the table.

Menu-cards are never used at luncheon. Salt-cellars and small water carafes may be placed up
and down the luncheon-table.

In our country, where servants run away and leave their mistress when she is expecting guests,
it is well to be able to improvise a dish from such materials as may be at hand. Nothing is
better than a cod mayonnaise. A cod boiled in the morning is a friend in the afternoon. When
it is cold remove the skin and bones. For sauce put some thick cream in a porcelain saucepan,
and thicken it with corn- flour which has been mixed with cold water. When it begins to boil,
stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. As it cools, beat it well to prevent it from becoming
lumpy, and when nearly cold, stir in the juice of two lemons, a little tarragon vinegar, a
pinch of salt, and a soupon of Cayenne pepper. Peel and slice some very ripe tomatoes or cold
potatoes; steep them in vinegar, with Cayenne, powdered ginger, and plenty of salt; lay these
around the fish, and cover with the cream sauce. This makes a very elegant cold dish for luncheon.
The tomatoes or potatoes should be taken out of the vinegar and carefully drained before they
are placed around the fish.

Some giblets carefully saved from the ducks, geese, or chickens of yesterday's dinner should
be stewed in good beef stock, and then set away to cool. Put them in a stewpan with dried split
pease, and boil them until they are reduced to pulp; serve this mixture hot on toast, and,
if properly flavored with salt and pepper, you have a good luncheon dish.

Vegetable salads of beet-root, potatoes, and lettuce are always delicious, and the careful
housewife who rises early in the morning and provides a round of cold corned beef, plenty of
bread, and a luncheon cake, need not regret the ephemeral cook, or fear the coming city guest.

Every country housewife should learn to garnish dishes with capers, a border of water-cresses,
plain parsley, or vegetables cut into fancy forms.

Potatoes, eggs, and cold hashed meats, in their unadorned simplicity, do not come under the
head of luxuries. But if the hashed meat is carefully warmed and well flavored, and put on
toast, if the potatoes are chopped and browned and put around the meat, if the eggs are boiled,
sliced, and laid around as a garnish, and a few capers and a border of parsley added, you have
a Delmonico ragout that Brillat-Savarin would have enjoyed.

CHAPTER XXXVI. SUPPER-PARTIES.

After a long retirement into the shades, the supper-party, the "sit-down Supper," once so dear
to our ancestors, has been again revived. Leaders of society at Newport have found that, after
the hearty lunch which everybody eats there at one or three o'clock the twelve or fourteen
course dinner at seven o'clock, is too much; that people come home reluctantly from their ocean
drive to dress; and last summer, in consequence, invitations were issued for suppers at nine
or half-past nine. The suppers at private houses, which had previously fallen out of fashion
by reason of the convenience and popularity of the great restaurants, were resumed. The very
late dinners in large cities have, no doubt, also prevented the supper from being a favorite
entertainment; but there is no reason (except the disapproval of doctors) why suppers should
not be in fashion in the country, or where people dine early. In England, where digestions
are better than here, and where people eat more heavily, "the supper-tray" is an institution,
and suppers are generally spread in every English country house; and we may acknowledge the
fact that the supper--the little supper so dear to the hearts of our friends of the last century--seems
to be coming again into fashion here. Nothing can be more significant than that Harper's Bazar
receives many letters asking for directions for setting the table for supper, and for the proper
service of the meats which are to gayly cover the cloth and enrich this always pleasant repast.

In a general way the same service is proper at a supper as at a dinner, with the single exception
of the soup-plates. Oysters on the half-shell and bouillon served in cups are the first two
courses. If a hot supper is served, the usual dishes are sweetbreads, with green pease, c"telettes
... la financiere, and some sort of game in season, such as reed-birds in autumn, canvas-back
ducks, venison, or woodcock; salads of every kind are in order, and are often served with the
game. Then ices and fruit follow. Cheese is rarely offered, although some gourmets insist that
a little is necessary with the salad.

After each course all the dishes and knives and forks that have been in use are replaced by
fresh ones, and the order and neatness of the table preserved to the end of the supper. We
would think it unnecessary to mention this most obvious detail of table decorum, had not several
correspondents asked to be informed concerning it.

There is, of course, the informal supper, at which the dishes are all placed on a table together,
as for a supper at a large ball. Meats, dressed salmon, chicken croquettes, salads, jellies,
and ices are a part of the alarming m,lange of which a guest is expected to partake, with only
such discrimination as may be dictated by prudence or inclination. But this is not the "sit
down," elegant supper so worthy to be revived, with its courses and its etiquette and its brilliant
conversation, which was the delight of our grandmothers.

A large centre-piece of flowers, with fruit and candies in glass compotiers, and high forms
of nougat, and other sugar devices, are suitable standards for an elegant supper-table. Three
sorts of wine may be placed on the table in handsome decanters--sherry, or Madeira, and Burgundy.
The guests find oysters on the half-shell, with little fish forks, all ready for them. The
napkin and bread are laid at the side or in front of each plate. These plates being removed,
other plain plates are put in their place, and cups of bouillon are served, with gold teaspoons.
This course passed, other plates are put before the guest, and some chicken croquettes or lobster
farci is passed. Sherry or Madeira should already have been served with the Oysters. With the
third course iced champagne is offered. Then follow game, or fried oysters, salads, and a slice
of pft, de foie gras, with perhaps tomato salad; and subsequently ices, jellies, fruit, and
coffee, and for the gentlemen a glass of brandy or cordial. Each course is taken away before
the next is presented. Birds and salad are served together.

There is a much simpler supper possible, which is often offered by a hospitable hostess after
the opera or theatre. It consists of a few Oysters, a pair of cold roast chickens, a dish of
lobster or plain salad, with perhaps a glass of champagne, and one sort of ice-cream, and involves
very little trouble or expense, and can be safely said to give as much pleasure as the more
sumptuous feast. This informal refreshment is often placed on a red table-cloth, with a dish
of oranges and apples in the centre of the table, and one servant is sufficient. There should
be, however, the same etiquette as to the changing of plates, knives, and forks, etc., as in
the more elaborate meal.

The good house-keeper who gives a supper every evening to her hungry family may learn many
an appetizing device by reading English books of cookery on this subject. A hashed dish of
the meat left from dinner, garnished with parsley, a potato salad, a few slices of cold corned
beef or ham, some pickled tongues, bread, butter, and cheese, with ale or cider, is the supper
offered at nearly every English house in the country.

The silver and glass, the china and the fruit, should be as carefully attended to as for a
dinner, and everything as neat and as elegant as possible, even at an informal supper.

Oysters, that universal food of the American, are invaluable for a supper. Fried oysters diffuse
a disagreeable odor through the house, therefore they are not as convenient in a private dwelling
as scalloped oysters, which can be prepared in the afternoon, and which send forth no odor
when cooking. Broiled oysters are very delicate, and are a favorite dish at an informal supper.
Broiled birds and broiled bones are great delicacies, but they must be prepared by a very good
cook. Chicken in various forms hashed, fried, cold, or in salad--is useful; veal may be utilized
for all these things, if chicken is not forthcoming. The delicately treated chicken livers
also make a very good dish, and mushrooms on toast are perfect in their season. Hot vegetables
are never served, except green pease with some other dish.

Beef, except in the form of a fillet, is never seen at a "sit-down" supper, and even a fillet
is rather too heavy. Lobster in every form is a favorite supper delicacy, and the grouse; snipe,
woodcock, teal; canvasback, and squab on toast, are always in order.

In these days of Italian warehouses and imported delicacies, the pressed and jellied meats,
pft,s, sausages, and spiced tongues furnish a variety for a cold supper. No supper is perfect
without a salad.

The Romans made much of this meal, and among their delicacies were the ass, the dog, and the
snail, sea-hedgehogs, oysters, asparagus, venison, wild boar, sea-nettles, fish, fowl, game,
and cakes. The Germans to-day eat wild boar, head-cheese, pickles, goose's flesh dried, sausages,
cheese, and salads for supper, and wash down with beer. The French, under Louis XIV., began
to make the supper their most finished meal. They used gold and silver dishes, crystal cups
and goblets, exquisite grapes crowned the ,pergne, and choicest fruits were served in golden
dishes. The cooks sent up piquant sauces for the delicately cooked meats, the wines were drunk
hot and spiced. The latter are taken iced now. Many old house-keepers, however, serve a rich,
hot-mulled port for a winter supper. It is a delicious and not unhealthy beverage, and can
be easily prepared.

The doctors, as we have said, condemn a late supper, but the pros and cons of this subject
admit of discussion. Every one, indeed, must decide for himself.

Few people can undergo excitement of an evening--an opera or play or concert, or even the pleasant
conversation of an evening party-- without feeling hungry. With many, if such an appetite is
not appeased it will cause sleeplessness. To eat lightly and to drink lightly at supper is
a natural instinct with people if they expect to go to bed at once; but excitement is a great
aid to digestion, and a heavy supper sometimes gives no inconvenience.

