He passed into the dining-room and looked eagerly about him. The room was handsomely furnished,
if a little conventional--a big mahogany table in the centre, rows of mahogany chairs upholstered
in morocco, fine modern prints, most of them artist's proofs, on the walls. A big marble clock,
flanked by a pair of vases, stood on the mantelshelf. There were a large number of blue vases
on the sideboard. The red distemper had faded to a pale pink in places.

"Tottenham Court Road," Steel smiled to himself. "Modern, solid, expensive, but decidedly inartistic.
Ginger jars fourteen guineas a pair, worth about as many pence. Moneyed people, solid and respectable,
of the middle class. What brings them playing at mystery like this?"

The room was most brilliantly lighted both from overhead and from the walls. On the shining
desert of the dining-table lay a small, flat parcel addressed to David Steel, Esq. The novelist
tore off the cover and disclosed a heap of crackling white papers beneath. Rapidly he fluttered
the crisp sheets over--seventy-five Bank of England notes for £10 each.

It was the balance of the loan, the price paid for Steel's presence. All he had to do now was
to place the money in his pocket and walk out of the house. A few steps and he would be free
with nobody to say him nay. It was a temptation, but Steel fought it down. He slipped the precious
notes into his pocket and buttoned his coat tightly over them. He had no fear for the coming
day now.

"And yet," he murmured, "what of the price I shall have to pay for this?"

Well, it was worth a ransom. And, so long as there was nothing dishonourable attached to it,
Steel was prepared to redeem his pledge. He knew perfectly well from bitter experience that
the poor man pays usurious rates for fortune's favours. And he was not without a strange sense
of gratitude. If--

Click, click, click. Three electric switches were snapped off almost simultaneously outside,
and the dining-room was plunged into pitchy darkness. Steel instantly caught up a chair. He
was no coward, but he was a novelist with a novelist's imagination. As he stood there the sweetest,
most musical laugh in the world broke on his ear. He caught the swish of silken drapery and
the subtle scent that suggested the fragrance of a woman's hair. It was vague, undefined, yet
soothing.

"Pray be seated, Mr. Steel," the silvery voice said. "Believe me, had there been any other
way, I would not have given you all this trouble. You found the parcel addressed to you? It
is an earnest of good faith. Is not that a correct English expression?"

David murmured that it was. But what did the speaker mean? She asked the question like a student
of the English language, yet her accent and phrasing were perfect. She laughed again noiselessly,
and once more Steel caught the subtle, entrancing perfume.

"I make no further apology for dragging you here at this time," the sweet voice said. "We knew
that you were in the habit of sitting up alone late at night, hence the telephone message.
You will perhaps wonder how we came to know so much of your private affairs. Rest assured that
we learnt nothing in Brighton. Presently you may gather why I am so deeply interested in you;
I have been for the past fortnight. You see, we were not quite certain that you would come
to our assistance unless we could find some means of coercing you. Then we go to one of the
smartest inquiry agents in the world and say: 'Tell us all about Mr. David Steel without delay.
Money is no object.' In less than a week we know all about Beckstein. We leave matters till
the last moment. If you only knew how revolting it all was!"

"So your tone seems to imply, madam," Steel said, drily.

"Oh, but truly. You were in great trouble, and we found a way to get you out. At a price; ah,
yes. But your trouble is nothing compared with mine--which brings me to business. A fortnight
ago last Monday you posted to Mr. Vanstone, editor of the Piccadilly Magazine, the synopsis
of the first four or five chapters of a proposed serial for the journal in question. You open
that story with a young and beautiful woman who is in deadly peril. Is not that so?"

"Yes," Steel said, faintly. "It is just as you suggest. But how--"

"Never mind that, because I am not going to tell you. In common parlance--is not that the word?--that
woman is in a frightful fix. There is nothing strained about your heroine's situation, because
I have heard of people being in a similar plight before. Mr. Steel, I want you to tell me truthfully
and candidly, can you see the way clear to save your heroine? Oh, I don't mean by the long
arm of coincidence or other favourite ruses known to your craft. I mean by common sense, logical
methods, by brilliant ruses, by Machiavelian means. Tell me, do you see a way?"

The question came eagerly, almost imploringly, from the darkness. David could hear the quick
gasps of his questioner, could catch the rustle of the silken corsage as she breathed.

"Yes," he said, "I can see a brilliant way out that would satisfy the strictest logician. But
you--"

"Thank Heaven! Mr. Steel, I am your heroine. I am placed in exactly the same position as the
woman whose story you are going to write. The setting is different, the local colouring is
not the same, but the same deadly peril menaces me. For the love of Heaven hold out your hand
to save a lonely and desperate woman whose only crime is that she is rich and beautiful. Providence
had placed in my hands the gist of your heroine's story. Hence this masquerade; hence the fact
that you are here to-night. I have helped you--help me in return."

It was some time before Steel spoke.

"It shall be as you wish," he said. "I will tell you how I propose to save my heroine. Her
sufferings are fiction; yours will be real. But if you are to be saved by the same means, Heaven
help you to bear the troubles that are in front of you. Before God, it would be more merciful
for me to be silent and let you go your own way."

CHAPTER III

THE VOICE IN THE DARKNESS

David was silent for some little time. The strangeness of the situation had shut down on him
again, and he was thinking of nothing else for the moment. In the dead stillness of the place
he could hear the quick breathing of his companion; the rustle of her dress seemed near to
him and then to be very far off. Nor did the pitchy darkness yield a jot to his now accustomed
eyes. He held a hand close to his eyes, but he could see nothing.

"Well?" the sweet voice in the darkness said, impatiently. "Well?"

"Believe me, I will give you all the assistance possible. If you would only turn up the light--"

"Oh, I dare not. I have given my word of honour not to violate the seal of secrecy. You may
say that we have been absurdly cautious in this matter, but you would not think so if you knew
everything. Even now the wretch who holds me in his power may have guessed my strategy and
be laughing at me. Some day, perhaps--"

The speaker stopped, with something like a sob in her throat.

"We are wasting precious time," she went on, more calmly. "I had better tell you my history.
In your story a woman commits a crime: she is guilty of a serious breach of trust to save the
life of a man she loves. By doing so she places the future and the happiness of many people
in the hands of an abandoned scoundrel. If she can only manage to regain the thing she has
parted from the situation is saved. Is not that so?"

"So far you have stated the case correctly," David murmured.

"As I said before, I am in practically similar case. Only, in my situation, I hastened everything
and risked the happiness of many people for the sake of a little child."

"Ah!" David cried. "Your own child? No! The child of one very near and dear to you, then. From
the mere novelist point of view, that is a far more artistic idea than mine. I see that I shall
have to amend my story before it is published."

A rippling little laugh came like the song of a bird in the darkness.

"Dear Mr. Steel," the voice said, "I implore you to do nothing of the kind. You are a man of
fertile imagination--a plot more or less makes no difference to you. If you publish that story
you go far on the way to ruin me."

"I am afraid that I am in the dark in more senses than one," David murmured.

"Then let me enlighten you. Daily your books are more widely read. My enemy is a great novel
reader. You publish that story, and what results? You not only tell that enemy my story, but
you show him my way out of the difficulty, and show him how he can checkmate my every move.
Perhaps, after I have escaped from the net--"

"You are right," Steel said, promptly. "From a professional point of view the story is abandoned.
And now you want me to show you a rational and logical, a human way out."

"If you can do so you have my everlasting gratitude."

"Then you must tell me in detail what it is you want to recover. My heroine parts with a document
which the villain knows to be a forgery. Money cannot buy it back because the villain can make
as much money as he likes by retaining it. He does as he likes with the family property; he
keeps my heroine's husband out of England by dangling the forgery and its consequences over
his head. What is to be done? How is the ruffian to be bullied into a false sense of security
by the one man who desires to throw dust in his eyes?"

"Ah," the voice cried, "ah, if you could only tell me that! Let my ruffian only imagine that
I am dead; let him have proofs of it, and the thing is done. I could reach him then; I could
tear from him the letter that--but I need not go into details. But he is cunning as the serpent.
Nothing but the most convincing proofs would satisfy him."

"A certificate of death signed by a physician beyond reproach?"

"Yes, that would do. But you couldn't get a medical man like that to commit felony."

"No, but we could trick him into it," Steel exclaimed. "In my story a fraud is perpetrated
to blind the villain and to deprive him of his weapons. It is a case of the end justifying
the means. But it is one thing, my dear lady, to commit fraud actually and to perpetrate it
in a novel. In the latter case you can defy the police, but unfortunately you and I are dealing
with real life. If I am to help you I must be a party to a felony."

"But you will! You are not going to draw back now? Mr. Steel, I have saved your home. You are
a happy man compared to what you were two hours ago. If the risk is great you have brains and
imagination to get out of danger. Show me how to do it, and the rest shall be mine. You have
never seen me, you know nothing, not even the name of the person who called you over the telephone.
You have only to keep your own counsel, and if I wade in blood to my end you are safe. Tell
me how I can die, disappear, leaving that one man to believe I am no more. And don't make it
too ingenious. Don't forget that you promised to tell me a rational way out of the difficulty.
How can it be done?"

"In my pocket I have a cutting from the Times, which contains a chapter from the history of
a medical student who is alone in London. It closely resembles my plot. He says he has no friends,
and he deems it prudent for reasons we need not discuss to let the world assume that he is
dead. The rest is tolerably easy. He disguises himself and goes to a doctor of repute, whom
he asks to come and see his brother--i.e., himself--who is dangerously ill. The doctor goes
later in the day and finds his patient in bed with severe internal inflammation. This is brought
about by a free use of albumen. I don't know what amount of albumen one would take without
extreme risk, but you could pump that information out of any doctor. Well, our medical man
calls again and yet again, and finds his patient sinking. The next day the patient, disguised,
calls upon his doctor with the information that his 'brother' is dead. The doctor is not in
the least surprised, and without going to view the body gives a certificate of death. Now,
I admit that all this sounds cheap and theatrical, but you can't get over facts. The thing
actually happened a little time ago in London, and there is no reason why it shouldn't happen
again."

"You suggest that I should do this thing?" the voice asked.

"Pardon me, I did nothing of the kind," Steel replied "You asked me to show you how my heroine
gets herself out of a terrible position, and I am doing it. You are not without friends. The
way I was called up tonight and the way I was brought here prove that. With the aid of your
friends the thing is possible to you. You have only to find a lodging where people are not
too observant and a doctor who is too busy, or too careless, to look after dead patients, and
the thing is done. If you desire to be looked upon as dead--especially by a powerful enemy--I
cannot recommend a more natural, rational way than this. As to the details, they may be safely
left to you. The clever manner in which you have kept up the mystery to-night convinces me
that I have nothing to teach you in this direction. And if there is anything more I can do--"

"A thousand, thousand thanks," the voice cried, passionately. "To be looked upon as 'dead,'
to be near to the rascal who smiles to think that I am in my grave.... And everything so dull
and prosaic on the surface! Yes, I have friends who will aid me in the business. Some day I
may be able to thank you face to face, to tell you how I managed to see your plot. May I?"

The question came quite eagerly, almost imploringly. In the darkness Steel felt a hand trembling
on his breast, a cool, slim hand, with many rings on the fingers. Steel took the hand and carried
it to his lips.

"Nothing would give me greater pleasure," he said. "And may you be successful. Good-night."

"Good-night, and God bless you for a real gentleman and a true friend. I will go out of the
room first and put the lights up afterwards. You will walk away and close the door behind you.
The newspaper cutting! Thanks. And once more good-night, but let us hope not good-bye."

She was gone. Steel could hear the distant dying swish of silk, the rustling of the portière,
and then, with a flick, the lights came up again. Half-blinded by the sudden illumination Steel
fumbled his way to the door and into the street. As he did so Hove Town Hall clock chimed two.
With a cigarette between his teeth David made his way home.

He could not think it all out yet; he would wait until he was in his own comfortable chair
under the roses and palms leading from his study. A fine night of adventure, truly, and a paying
one. He pressed the precious packet of notes to his side and his soul expanded.

He was home at last. But surely he had closed the door before he started? He remembered distinctly
trying the latch. And here the latch was back and the door open. The quick snap of the electric
light declared nobody in the dining-room. Beyond, the study was in darkness. Nobody there,
but--stop!

A stain on the carpet; another by the conservatory door. Pots of flowers scattered about, and
a huddled mass like a litter of empty sacks in one corner. Then the huddled mass resolved itself
into the figure of a man with a white face smeared with blood. Dead! Oh, yes, dead enough.

Steel flew to the telephone and rang furiously.

"Give me 52, Police Station," he cried. "Are you there? Send somebody at once up here--15,
Downend Terrace. There has been murder done here. For Heaven's sake come quickly."

Steel dropped the receiver and stared with strained eyes at the dreadful sight before him.

CHAPTER IV

IN EXTREMIS

For some time--a minute, an hour--Steel stood over the dreadful thing huddled upon the floor
of his conservatory. Just then he was incapable of consecutive ideas.

His mind began to move at length. The more he thought of it the more absolutely certain he
was that he had fastened the door before leaving the house. True, the latch was only an ordinary
one, and a key might easily have been made to fit it. As a matter of fact, David had two, one
in reserve in case of accidents. The other was usually kept in a jewel-drawer of the dressing-table.
Perhaps--

David went quietly upstairs. It was just possible that the murderer was in the house. But the
closest search brought nothing to light. He pulled out the jewel-drawer in the dressing-table.
The spare latchkey had gone! Here was something to go upon.

Then there was a rumbling of an electric bell somewhere that set David's heart beating like
a drum. The hall light streamed on a policeman in uniform and an inspector in a dark overcoat
and a hard felt hat. On the pavement was a long shallow tray, which David recognised mechanically
as the ambulance.

"Something very serious, sir?" Inspector Marley asked, quietly. "I've brought the doctor with me."

David nodded. Both the inspector and the doctor were acquaintances of his. He closed the door
and led the way into the study. Just inside the conservatory and not far from the huddled figure
lay David's new cigar-case. Doubtless, without knowing it, the owner had whisked it off the
table when he had sprung the telephone.

"'Um," Marley muttered. "Is this a clue, or yours, sir?"

He lifted the case with its diamonds gleaming like stars on a dark night. David had forgotten
all about it for the time, had forgotten where it came from, or that it contained £250 in bank-notes.

"Not mine," he said. "I mean to say, of course, it is mine. A recent present. The shock of
this discovery has deprived me of my senses pretty well."

Marley laid the cigar-case on the table. It seemed strange to him, who could follow a tragedy
calmly, that a man should forget his own property. Meanwhile Cross was bending over the body.
David could see a face smooth like that of a woman. A quick little exclamation came from the
doctor.

"A drop of brandy here, and quick as possible," he commanded.

"You don't mean to say," Steel began; "you don't--"

Cross waved his arm, impatiently. The brandy was procured as speedily as possible. Steel, watching
intently, fancied that he detected a slight flicker of the muscles of the white, stark face.

"Bring the ambulance here," Cross said, curtly. "If we can get this poor chap to the hospital
there is just a chance for him. Fortunately, we have not many yards to go."

As far as elucidation went Marley naturally looked to Steel.

"I should like to have your explanation, sir," he said, gravely.

"Positively, I have no explanation to offer," David replied. "About midnight I let myself out
to go for a stroll, carefully closing the door behind me. Naturally, the door was on the latch.
When I came back an hour or so later, to my horror and surprise I found those marks of a struggle
yonder and that poor fellow lying on the floor of the conservatory."

"'Um. Was the door fast on your return?"

"No, it was pulled to, but it was open all the same."

"You didn't happen to lose your latch-key during your midnight stroll, sir?"

"No, it was only when I put my key in the door that I discovered it to be open. I have a spare
latch-key which I keep for emergencies, but when I went to look for it just now the key was
not to be found. When I came back the house was perfectly quiet."

"What family have you, sir? And what kind of servants?"

"There is only myself and my mother, with three maids. You may dismiss any suspicion of the
servants from your mind at once. My mother trained them all in the old vicarage where I was
born, and not one of the trio has been with us less than twelve years."

"That simplifies matters somewhat," Marley said, thoughtfully. "Apparently your latch-key was
stolen by somebody who has made careful study of your habits. Do you generally go for late
walks after your household has gone to bed, sir?"

David replied somewhat grudgingly that he had never done such a thing before. He would like
to have concealed the fact, but it was bound to come out sooner or later. He had strolled along
the front and round Brunswick Square. Marley shrugged his shoulders.

"Well, it's a bit of a puzzle to me," he admitted. "You go out for a midnight walk--a thing
you have never done before--and when you come back you find somebody has got into your house
by means of a stolen latch-key and murdered somebody else in your conservatory. According to
that, two people must have entered the house."

"That's logic," David admitted. "There can be no murder without the slain and the slayer. My
impression is that somebody who knows the ways of the house watched me depart. Then he lured
his victim in here under pretence that it was his own house--he had the purloined latch-key--and
murdered him. Audacious, but a far safer way than doing it out of doors."

But Marley's imagination refused to go so far. The theory was plausible enough, he pointed
out respectfully, if the assassin had been assured that these midnight rambles were a matter
of custom. The point was a shrewd one, and Steel had to admit it. He almost wished now that
he had suggested that he often took these midnight rambles. He regretted the fiction still
more when Marley asked if he had had some appointment elsewhere to-night.

"No," David said, promptly, "I hadn't."

He prevaricated without hesitation. His adventure in Brunswick Square could not possibly have
anything to do with the tragedy, and nothing would be gained by betraying that trust.

"I'll run round to the hospital and come and see you again in the morning, sir," Marley said.
"Whatever was the nature of the crime, it wasn't robbery, or the criminal wouldn't have left
that cigar-case of yours behind. Sir James Lythem had one stolen like that at the last races,
and he valued it at £80."

"I'll come as far as the hospital with you," said Steel.

At the bottom of the flight of steps they encountered Dr. Cross and the policeman. The former
handed over to Marley a pocket-book and some papers, together with a watch and chain.

"Everything that we could find upon him," he explained.

"Is the poor fellow dead yet?" David asked.

"No," Cross replied. "He was stabbed twice in the back in the region of the liver. I could
not say for sure, but there is just a chance that he may recover. But one thing is pretty certain--it
will be a good long time before he is in a position to say anything for himself. Good-night,
Mr. Steel."

David went indoors thoughtfully, with a general feeling that something like a hand had grasped
his brain and was squeezing it like a sponge. He was free from his carking anxiety now, but
it seemed to him that he was paying a heavy price for his liberty. Mechanically, he counted
out the bank-notes, and almost as mechanically he cut his initials on the gun-metal inside
the cigar-case. He was one of the kind of men who like to have their initials everywhere.

He snapped the lights out and went to bed at last. But not to sleep. The welcome dawn came
at length and David took his bath gratefully. He would have to tell his mother what had happened,
suppressing all reference to the Brunswick Square episode. It was not a pleasant story, but
Mrs. Steel assimilated it at length over her early tea and toast.

"It might have been you, my dear," she said, placidly. "And, indeed, it is a dreadful business.
But why not telephone to the hospital and ask how the poor fellow is?"

The patient was better but was still in an unconscious condition.

CHAPTER V

"RECEIVED WITH THANKS."

Steel swallowed a hasty breakfast and hurried off town-wards. He had £1,000 packed away in
his cigar-case, and the sooner he was free from Beckstein the better he would be pleased. He
came at length to the offices of Messrs. Mossa and Mack, whose brass-plate bore the legend
that the gentry in questions were solicitors, and that they also had a business in London.
As David strode into the offices of the senior partner that individual looked up with a shade
of anxiety in his deep, Oriental eyes.

"If you have come to offer terms," he said, nasally, "I am sorry--"

"To hear that I have come to pay you in full," David said, grimly; "£974 16s. 4d. up to yesterday,
which I understand is every penny you can rightfully claim. Here it is. Count it."

He opened the cigar-case and took the notes therefrom. Mr. Mossa counted them very carefully
indeed. The shade of disappointment was still upon his aquiline features. He had hoped to put
in execution to-day and sell David up. In that way quite £200 might have been added to his
legitimate earnings.

"It appears to be all correct," Mossa said, dismally.

"So I imagined, sir. You will be so good as to indorse the receipt on the back of the writ.
Of course you are delighted to find that I am not putting you to painful extremities. Any other
firm of solicitors would have given me time to pay this. But I am like the man who journeyed
from Jericho to Jerusalem--"

"And fell amongst thieves! You dare to call me a thief? You dare--"

"I didn't," David said, drily. "That fine, discriminating mind of yours saved me the trouble.
I have met some tolerably slimy scoundrels in my time, but never any one of them more despicable
than yourself. Faugh! the mere sight of you sickens me. Let me get out of the place so that
I can breathe."

David strode out of the office with the remains of his small fortune rammed into his pocket.
In the wild, unreasoning rage that came over him he had forgotten his cigar-case. And it was
some little time before Mr. Mossa was calm enough to see the diamonds winking at him.

"Our friend is in funds," he muttered. "Well, he shall have a dance for his cigar-case. I'll
send it up to the police-station and say that some gentleman or other left it here by accident.
And if that Steel comes back we can say that there is no cigar-case here. And if Steel does
not see the police advertisement he will lose his pretty toy, and serve him right. Yes, that
is the way to serve him out."

Mr. Mossa proceeded to put his scheme into execution whilst David was strolling along the sea
front. He was too excited for work, though he felt easier in his mind than he had done for
months. He turned mechanically on to the Palace Pier, at the head of which an Eastbourne steamer
was blaring and panting. The trip appealed to David in his present frame of mind. Like most
of his class, he was given to acting on the spur of the moment.... It was getting dark as David
let himself into Downend Terrace with his latchkey.

How good it was to be back again! The eye of the artist rested fondly upon the beautiful things
around. And but for the sport of chance, the whim of fate, these had all passed from him by
this time. It was good to look across the dining-table over venetian glass, to see the pools
of light cast by the shaded electric, to note the feathery fall of flowers, and to see that
placid, gentle face in its frame of white hair opposite him. Mrs. Steel's simple, unaffected
pride in her son was not the least gratifying part of David's success.

"You have not suffered from the shock, mother?" he asked.

"Well, no," Mrs. Steel confessed, placidly. "You see, I never had what people call nerves,
my dear. And, after all, I saw nothing. Still, I am very, very sorry for that poor young man,
and I have sent to inquire after him several times."

"He is no worse or I should have heard of it."

"No, and no better. And Inspector Marley has been here to see you twice to-day."

David pitied himself as much as a man could pity himself considering his surroundings. It was
rather annoying that this should have happened at a time when he was so busy. And Marley would
have all sorts of questions to ask at all sorts of inconvenient seasons.

Steel passed into his study presently and lighted a cigarette. Despite his determination to
put the events of yesterday from his mind, he found himself constantly returning to them. What
a splendid dramatic story they would make! And what a fascinating mystery could be woven round
that gun-metal cigar-case!

By the way, where was the cigar-case? On the whole it would be just as well to lock the case
away till he could discover some reasonable excuse for its possession. His mother would be
pretty sure to ask where it came from, and David could not prevaricate so far as she was concerned.
But the cigar-case was not to be found, and David was forced to the conclusion that he had
left it in Mossa's office.

A little annoyed with himself he took up the evening Argus. There was half a column devoted
to the strange case at Downend Terrace, and just over it a late advertisement to the effect
that a gun-metal cigar-case had been found and was in the hands of the police awaiting an owner.

David slipped from the house and caught a 'bus in St. George's Road.

At the police-station he learnt that Inspector Marley was still on the premises. Marley came
forward gravely. He had a few questions to ask, but nothing to tell.

"And now perhaps you can give me some information?" David said, "You are advertising in to-night's
Argus a gun-metal cigar-case set with diamonds."

"Ah," Marley said, eagerly, "can you tell us anything about it?"

"Nothing beyond the fact that I hope to satisfy you that the case is mine."

Marley stared open-mouthed at David for a moment, and then relapsed into his sapless official
manner. He might have been a detective cross-examining a suspected criminal.

"Why this mystery?" David asked. "I have lost a gun-metal cigar-case set with diamonds, and
I see a similar article is noted as found by the police. I lost it this morning, and I shrewdly
suspect that I left it behind me at the office of Mr. Mossa."

"The case was sent here by Mr. Mossa himself," Marley admitted.

"Then, of course, it is mine. I had to give Mr. Mossa my opinion of him this morning, and by
way of spiting me he sent that case here, hoping, perhaps, that I should not recover it. You
know the case Marley--it was lying on the floor of my conservatory last night."

"I did notice a gun-metal case there," Marley said, cautiously.

"As a matter of fact, you called my attention to it and asked if it was mine."

"And you said at first that it wasn't, sir."

"Well, you must make allowances for my then frame of mind," David laughed. "I rather gather
from your manner that somebody else has been after the case; if that is so, you are right to
be reticent. Still, it is in your hands to settle the matter on the spot. All you have to do
is to open the case, and if you fail to find my initials, D.S., scratched in the left-hand
top corner, then I have lost my property and the other fellow has found his."

In the same reticent fashion Marley proceeded to unlock a safe in the corner, and from thence
he produced what appeared to be the identical cause of all this talk. He pulled the electric
table lamp over to him and proceeded to examine the inside carefully.

"You are quite right," he said, at length. "Your initials are here."

