"Cries of joy have their sorrows," said a poet. The child had uttered his cry of joy, and his
torments were about to begin. Seven notes! It was a whole world; but what was he to do with
them? He scarcely knew, although he was enchanted to possess the treasure. Could he foresee
the revelations which art had in store for him? Still less could he predict those conquests
in the realm of the ideal which cost him so many sleepless nights.

It must be confessed, superior talents bring suffering to their fortunate possessor. They console
him on his journey, along the rough road down which they drag him; they sometimes reward one
of the elect, but it is their nature to cause suffering.

And so François Delsarte was tempest-tossed while yet a child. He soon saw that his scientific
baggage was but small; he felt that something unknown, something infinite, barred his passage,
so soon as he strove to approach the goal which, in an outburst of joy, he fancied within his
grasp. What hand would guide him to enter on the dazzling career which he had dimly foreseen?
Where should he get books? Who would advise him?

Well! these impossible things were all found--in scanty measure, no doubt, and somewhat capriciously;
but still the means for learning were provided for his greed of knowledge.

At first, his stubborn will had only the seven notes of the scale to contend with. He combined
them in every possible way. He derived musical phrases from them; at the same time, he listened
with all his ears to church music, to street musicians, to church organs and hand-organs.

In these first struggles with knowledge--we cannot call it science yet,--instead of bowing
to the method of some master, Delsarte made a method for himself. Had it any resemblance to
that which--with the progress of time,--his genius revealed to him? I cannot say, and probably
the thought never occurred to him. However it may be, Delsarte said that he learned a great
deal by this autonomic process: in fact, one who is restrained by nothing, who satisfies a
passion instead of accomplishing a mere act of obedience, may enlarge his horizon and dig to
whatever depth he sees fit. In this case, study is called research; if, by this method, one
loses the benefit of the experience of others, he becomes more quick at discovery. Is not the
puzzle which we work out for ourselves more readily remembered than the ideas which are merely
learned by heart?

A wise man, a disciple of Socrates--who has been greatly ridiculed, but by whose lessons the
science of pedagogy has greatly profited,--Jacotot, gave similar advice to teachers: "Put your
questions, but let the scholar think and work out his answers instead of putting them into
his mouth."

The talent of young François once established, he left the inhospitable house where he had
been so misunderstood, and was taken into the family of an old musician, "Father Bambini,"
as Delsarte loved to call him.

Here, finding it in the order of facts, I must repeat almost literally a page from the little
work quoted before.

Father Bambini was one of those old-fashioned masters, who treat their art with love and veneration.
He gave concerts at which he was at once performer and audience, judge and client. Delsarte
was sometimes present. He saw the good man take up a Gluck score as one handles a sacred book;
he surprised him pressing it to his heart, or to his head, as if to win a blessing from the
great soul which poured itself forth in these immortal compositions.

Here we most assuredly have the foundation of the unlimited admiration which our great artist
felt for the author of "Alcestis" and of "Iphigenia." Everyone knows that it was Delsarte who
drew Gluck from the oblivion in which he had languished since the beginning of the century.
Delsarte alone could have revived him, his assured and majestic talent being amply capable
of correctly interpreting those colossal works. Delsarte is the equivalent of Gluck, and, if
we may say so, the incarnation of his thought. When the artist sang a part in those lyric tragedies
of which Grétry says: "They are the very expression of truth," it seemed as if the illustrious
chevalier lived again in him to win better comprehension than ever before and to be avenged
at last for all the injustice and bad taste from which he had suffered.

Delsarte received no very regular musical education from Father Bambini. The lesson was often
given while the teacher was shaving, which did not distract the attention of either party.
The master, having no hand at liberty to hold a book, made his pupil explain all the exercises
aloud, sing every composition, and read at sight the authors with whom he wished him to be
familiar. Great progress can be made where there is such mutual good will. They had faith in
each other: the child, because he saw that his master really loved his art; the old musician,
because he realized that his scholar had a genuine vocation and would be a great artist.

One evening they were walking together in the Champs Elysées. Carriages rolled by filled with
fashionable people. The humble pedestrians were surrounded by luxury. Suddenly Father Bambini
turned toward his scholar:

"You see," said he, "all these people who have their carriages, their liveried lackeys and
their fine clothes; well, the day will come when they will be only too glad to hear you, and
they will envy you because you are so great a singer."

The child was deeply moved; not by this promise of future glory; not by the thought, that by
fame he should gain wealth; but he seemed to see his dream realized in a remote future. That
dream was the complete mastery of his art; it was his ideal attained, or closely approached.
This mode of feeling already justified the prediction.

Delsarte retained a grateful memory of another teacher. M. Deshayes, he said, spurred him on
to scientific discovery, as Bambini directed his attention and his taste to the works of the
great masters.

One day, as the young man was studying a certain rôle, M. Deshayes, busily talking with some
one else and not even glancing toward his pupil, exclaimed:

"Your gesture is incorrect!"

When they were alone Delsarte expressed his astonishment.

"You said my gesture was incorrect," he exclaimed, "and you could not see me."

"I knew it by your mode of singing."

This explanation set the young disciple's brain in a whirl. Were there, then, affinities, a
necessary concordance between the gesture and the inflections of the voice? And, from this
slight landmark, he set to work, searching, comparing, verifying the principle by the effects,
and vice versa.

He gave himself with such vigor to the task that, from this hint, he succeeded little by little
in establishing the basis of his system of æsthetics and its complete development.

After these beginnings, which Delsarte considered as a favorable initiation, Father Bambini--his
faithful patron--thought that he required a more thorough musical education, and chose the
Conservatory school. There, that broad and impulsive spirit in its independence ran counter
to classic paths, to rigid processes; there, that exceptional nature, that potent personality,
which was already a marked one, that vivid intuition--which already went beyond the limits
of the traditional holy of holies--had little chance of appreciation. Moreover, Delsarte was
timid; his genius had not yet acquired the audacity which dares. Competition followed competition;
would he win a prize? In answer to this question which he had asked himself throughout the
year, he saw mediocrity crowned; his soul of light and fire was forced to bow before will-o'-the-wisps,
most of whom were soon extinguished in merited oblivion.

The artist's regret was the more acute because he did not yet know the course of human life.
He had not proved the strange fatality--which seeks to make itself a law--that, in general,
success falls to the lot of those who servilely follow in the ruts of routine. Happy are the
worshippers of art and poetry, those who have devoted their lives to this sacred cult, if ambition
and intrigue--with their attendant train of flattery, party rings, and illegal speculation--do
not invade the stage whence the palms and the crowns are awarded!

Delsarte must also have learned in the course of his life, that genius, a rare exception, is
more rarely still judged by its peers; and yet, the genius of this student was already revealed
by various tokens; and for his consolation, these premonitory symptoms were noted by other
than the official judges.

After one of these scholastic contests, Delsarte withdrew confused and heavy-hearted: he had
received but one vote in the competition; and even that exception roused a sort of cheer, as
if it were given to some contemptible competitor.

The defeated youth walked slowly away, dragging at his heels all the sorrow of his discomfiture,
when two persons approached him; one was the famous Marie Malibran, the other the brilliant
tenor, Adolph Nourrit.

"Courage!" said the prima donna, pressing his hand. "I enjoyed hearing you very much. You will
be a great artist!"

"My friend," added Nourrit, "it was I who cast my vote for you: to my mind, you are an incomparable
singer. When I have my children taught music, you shall certainly be their teacher."

Delsarte blessed the defeat which had brought him such precious compensations. These voices
which sounded so sweetly in his ear, were soon extinguished by death; but they vibrated long
in the heart which they had comforted. The artist associated their dear memory with every success
which recalled to him their sympathetic accents and their clear-sighted prediction.

Chapter X.

Delsarte's Theatre and School.

When Delsarte had finished his studies, he entered the world unaided and alone; disarmed by
the hostilities which could not fail to await him, by his very superiority, and by that honesty
which refuses to lend itself to certain transactions.

At the Opera Comique, where he was engaged, he did not succeed. Exceptional talents require
an exceptional public who can understand them and make them popular by applauding and explaining
them.

And yet certain people, gifted with penetration, discovered under the artistic innovations
peculiar to the beginner, that indescribable fascination which hovers round the heads of the
predestined favorites of art.

Delsarte could not long confine himself to the stage, when everything connected with it was
so far from sympathetic to him, and seemed so contrary to the true object of dramatic art.
The theatre, to his mind, should be a school of morality; and what did he see? Authors--what
would he say now-a-days?--absorbed in winning the applause of the masses, rather than in feeding
them upon wholesome food or in preparing an antidote for vice and evil inclinations.

Whatever good intentions happened to be mingled with the play were lost in the details of the
action--or in the often mischievous interpretation of the actors. With his wonderful perspicacity,
Delsarte seemed to foresee all the excesses of naturalism in certain forerunners of Adolphe
Belot and Emile Zola.

On the other hand, his comrades, who should have attracted him, showed themselves to be envious
and malicious. To sum it all up, it was very hard for him to live with them. Some of them might
please him by their simple gaiety, their childlike ease, their lack of affectation, and their
amiability, but they were far from satisfying his lofty aspirations!

An occupation of a higher order, he thought, the elaboration of his method, demanded his thoughts.
He seemed haunted by a desire to produce what his spirit had conceived. He longed fully to
enjoy that happiness of creation that arises from useful discovery. He aspired to say: "In
accomplishing the task which I set myself, I have also done much for art and artists."

Swayed by such thoughts, François Delsarte soon left the profession of actor to follow that
of teacher of singing and elocution. Then he found himself in his element and, as it were,
at the centre of all that attracted him. His teaching enabled him to verify the value of his
axioms hourly, in the order of facts and to confirm the truth of his observations.

And yet he had not attained to the supreme beatitude. If the elect of plastic and practical
art have to contend with appraisers of every degree, inventors have to deal with enemies who
make up in stubborn resistance what they lack in numbers, and oppose the iron will of a rival
who will not see the limit of the ne plus ultra which he believes himself to have reached and
even exceeded.

In every station of life, the bearers of "good news" are a prey to the tyranny of interests
and established prejudices. In our time, this persecution becomes mockery or indifference.
Delsarte did not escape this debt of revelatory genius. Humble in regard to art and science,
as he was conscious of his strength when face to face with rivals and competitors, he sometimes
felt the doubt of himself, the sudden weakness, which overtakes great minds and great hearts
in the accomplishment of their mission.

A special form of torture attacked our young innovator. He had proved, connected and classed
a number of psychological facts relating to the theory of art, and he did not know the special
terms which would make them intelligible. Like those phenomenal children, who see countless
relations before they possess the words to express them, he had discovered a law, created a
science, and he was still ignorant of the language of scientists. If he tried to demonstrate
the bases of his system and its rational evolution in ordinary words, the ignorant would not
understand him and the learned would not deign to listen.

Sometimes he did find some one who would hear him, question him, even criticize him, and who
would go away bearing a fragment of conversation or some few notes which he had copied to turn
to his own profit.

At this time, there came one day to Delsarte, a pupil who--by a rare exception--had been through
a course of classical studies.

"Tell me, you who have studied (asked the teacher with the affability of a great man), what
is metaphysics?"

"Why ... just what you teach us!" said the astonished youth.

Delsarte was enchanted to learn, that he was only divided by words from a science which had
seemed to him to dwell on inaccessible heights. The study of technical words, when intuition
had provided him with important ideas and new perceptions, was child's play to him; in a short
time he could teach his philosophy of art in the consecrated expressions.

His lectures grew rapidly in the Rue Montholon. A choice public soon assembled to hear them,
drawn thither by the admiring cry of the first enthusiasts. At this period, the talent of the
artist was enhanced by the lustre of youth. Nature had endowed him generously. His figure,
which later assumed rather large proportions, was tall and elegant; his gestures were marked
by grace and nobleness; his hair, of a very light chestnut, gave his face a fair softness;
his brown eyes relieved this expression and allowed him to give his face--when the interpretation
of the part required it--the signs of power and vigorous passion. A full length portrait painted
at this time and in the possession of Madame Delsarte, gives us some idea of his grand face
and form, allowing for the disadvantages of every translation. Although, in singing, the organ
was often impaired, his speaking-voice was most agreeable in tone, correct and persuasive in
accent.

In acting various parts, Delsarte transformed himself to suit the character that he represented.
He was congratulated on bringing to life for our age Achilles and Agamemnon, as Homer painted
their types. Yet, I think he was sometimes told: "You paint that wretch of a Don Juan a little
too faithfully." Certainly, art would never make that complaint!

If Delsarte was understood in that part of his method addressed especially to the ear and the
eye, it was not so with the theory which prepared these striking demonstrations.

He was surrounded, it is true, by an assembly of men of letters, men of the world, and amateur
artists, rather than by scientists and philosophers. Many in the audience and among the pupils
did not pay an undivided attention to the scientific part of the instruction. Thus the first
notes of the piano, announcing that the time for action had come, always caused a repressed
murmur of satisfaction and pleasure.

Sometimes, after the lecture, a discussion followed, for Delsarte often left room for a controversy
which was essentially incorrect and caused many misunderstandings. This was because the innovator
sometimes blended with the clear hues of his art-principles certain tints of religious mysticism
which had no necessary relation with the synthesis of his æsthetics.

It was one of the peculiarities of his character, amiable and benevolent as it was, to take
delight in the conflict of ideas. If he saw, in the course of his lecture, a man whom he took
for a philosopher or anything like it, he never failed to direct some piquant phrase, some
aggressive sentence or some irritating thought that way--it was the gauntlet which he flung
for the final combat.

Nor were women exempt from these humorous sallies.

Although the master loved all grandeur--the artistic sense with which he was so largely endowed
inclining him that way--he had democratic, I might almost say plebeian, instincts. The poetry
of simple, humble, small existences sometimes swayed him.

Thus, if among his hearers, a bright violet or an audacious scarlet gown annoyed his taste;
if the reflection of a ruby or a diamond vexed his eye, he would choose that instant to improvise
a rustic idyl or to intone a hymn to poverty.

But everything ended well; neither the philosopher whom he had provoked, nor the fine lady
whom he had reproved, left him as an enemy. His nature with its varied riches had quite enough
feminine coquetry to regain betimes the sympathy which he was on the eve of losing. A gracious
word, an affectionate clasp of the hand, and all was pardoned.

The opposition manifested outside the lecture-room to his ideas and mode of instruction, was
less courteous. There rival schools and jealousies, ill-disguised under an affectation of disdain,
contended against him. He was accused of the maddest eccentricities; barbarous processes were
imputed to him, such as squeezing the chest of singers, his pupils, between two boards--the
reason was hard to understand. Others claimed that before Delsarte accepted a scholar, he required
a profession of the Catholic faith and an examination in the catechism.

Those were the days when the author of "Les Orientales," in his legend of the "Two Archers,"
spoke of

    "That holy hermit who moved stones
    By the sign of the cross."

But if, as an artist, Delsarte loved legends and was inspired by faith, as a professor he could
cut short this poetic part of his art, at the point where science and the practical side of
his teaching began.

The reproach, therefore, carried no weight.

Delsarte was amused by these exaggerated accusations; in another order of criticisms, it was
agreeable to him to hear "that he sang without a voice, as Ingres painted without colors."
The comparison pleased him, although inexact.

Yes, I say inexact, Delsarte was not without a voice; he had one, on the contrary, of great
strength and range; of moving tone; eminently sympathetic; but it was an invalid organ and
subject to caprice. He was not always master of it, and this caused him real suffering.

Let me give you the history of his voice as Madame Delsarte herself lately told it to me. I
must go back to his early days of study and débuts.

Delsarte entered the Conservatory at the age of fourteen. Too young to endure the fatigue of
the regular school-exercises, his voice must have received an injury. When the singer offered
his services at the Opera Comique---then Salle Vantadour--he was told that his voice was hollow,
that it had no carrying power. This was perhaps partly the fault of the building, whose acoustic
properties were afterward improved. However, thanks to the flexibility which his voice retained
and his perfect vocalization, the pretended insufficiency was overlooked, and the young tenor
was admitted.

His mode of singing pleased the skilled public, and the special abilities of this strong artistic
organism--as I have already observed--did not pass unnoted.

A dilettante, to whom I mentioned Delsarte long after this time, said: "What you tell me does
not surprise me, I heard him at his first appearance, and he has lingered in my memory as an
artist of the greatest promise. He was more than a singer; he had that nameless quality, which
is not taught in any school and which marks a personality; a tone of which nothing, before
or since, has given me the least idea."

The tenor, from the Comic Opera, went to the Ambigu Theatre, and thence to the Variétés, where
an attempt was being made to introduce lyric works. François Delsarte's dramatic career did
not, however, last more than two years. During these various changes--I cannot give the exact
dates--this artist, on his way to glory, was forced to gain a living by the least aristocratic
of occupations. If he did not go so far as Shakespeare in humility of profession (the English
poet was a butcher's boy), he strangely stooped from that native nobility--great capacity,--which
must yet have claimed, in his secret soul, its imprescriptible rights.

If this was one more suffering, added to all the rest, it had its good side. It was, perhaps,
the source of the artist's never failing kindness, of that gracious reception which he never
hesitated to bestow on anyone--from the Princess de Chimay and many other titled lords and
ladies, down to Mother Chorré, the neighboring milk-woman, whom he held, he said, "in great
esteem and friendship."

I return to his teaching. His lectures were given in Rue Lamartine and Rue de la Pépinière.
There was always--aside from the school--an audience made up of certain never failing followers
and of a floating population. The birds of passage sometimes came with a very distinct intention
to criticise; but if they did not readily understand the learned deductions, they went away
fascinated by what the professor had shown them of his brilliant changes into every type of
the repertory which he held up as a model. Enthusiasm soon triumphed over prejudice. Envy,
alone, persisted in hostility.

These meetings were genuine artistic feasts. They were held at night, at the same hour as the
theatres, and no play was preferable to them in the eyes of the truly initiated. They were
a transcendent manifestation of all that is most elevated, which art can produce.

Here is an extract from a newspaper, which I find among the notes sent me:

"I heard him repeat, one evening, 'Iphigenia's Dream,' at the request of his audience. All
were held trembling, breathless by that worn and yet sovereign voice. We were amazed to find
ourselves yielding to such a spell; there was no splendor and no theatric illusion. Iphigenia
was a teacher in a black frock coat; the orchestra was a piano striking, here and there, an
unexpected modulation; this was all the illusion--and the hall was silent, every heart throbbed,
tears flowed from every eye. And then, when the tale was told, cries of enthusiasm arose, as
if Iphigenia, in person, had told us her terrors."

These lines are signed "Laurentius." I am very glad to come across them just as I am giving
vent to my own feelings. I also find that Adolphe Guéroult, in his paper, the "Press," calls
Delsarte the matchless artist, and recognizes a law in his æsthetic discoveries. I shall have
occasion to set down, as opportunity offers, a string of testimonies no less flattering and
no less sincere; but I hasten to produce these specimens, lest the suspicion of infatuation
follow me.

How was it that amidst such warm plaudits, Delsarte failed to win that popularity which, after
all, is the supreme sanction? It must be acknowledged that he took no great pains to gain the
place which was his due. If he loved glory like the true artist that he was, "he never tired
himself in its pursuit." Perhaps he had an instinctive feeling that it would come to him some
day unsought.

He might, in this regard, be reproached for the tardiness of his successes; he himself made
difficulties and obstacles which might be considered as the effects of extreme pride.

Halévy once suggested his singing at the Tuilleries before King Louis Philippe and his family.

"I only sing to my friends," replied the artist.

"That is strange," said the author of "The Jewess," "Lablache and Duprez go whenever they are
asked."

"Delsarte does not."

"But consider! This is to be a party given by the Crown Prince to his father."

This last consideration touched the obstinate heart.

"Well! I will go," he said, "but it is only on three conditions: I must be the only singer;
I am to have the chorus from the Opera to accompany me; and I am not to be paid."

"You will establish a dangerous precedent."

"Those are my irrevocable terms."

All were granted.

From his youth up Delsarte manifested this, perhaps excessive, contempt for money. On one occasion
it was quite justifiable. Father Bambini had taken him to a party where he was to sing on very
advantageous terms. The scholar was treated with deference; but the teacher who had neither
a fine face nor the claims of youth to shield him against aristocratic prejudice, was received
much as a servant would have been who had made a mistake in the door.

The young singer felt the blood mantle his brow, and his heart rebelled.

"Take your hat and let us go!" he said to his old master.

"But why?" replied the good man. He had heeded nothing but his pupil's success.

Delsarte dragged him away in spite of his protests, and lost by his abrupt departure the profits
of the evening.

Chapter XI.

Delsarte's Family.

Delsarte married, in 1833, Miss Rosina Andrien. The young husband felt a high esteem for his
father-in-law (primo basso cantante at the Opera); but we must not suppose that this consideration
influenced his choice. He made a love marriage such as one makes at the age of twenty-two,
with such a nature as his. Moreover, reason was never in closer accord with love.

Miss Andrien was remarkably beautiful. She was fifteen; her talent as a pianist had already
won her a first prize at the Conservatory. She was just the companion, wise and devoted, to
counterbalance the flights of imagination and the momentary transports inherent in the temperament
of many artists.

I pause, fearing to wound a modesty which I know to be very sensitive: the living cannot bear
praise with the indifference of the dead; but I must be allowed to insist upon the valuable
assistance which the young wife lent her husband in his professional duties; this is a special
part of my subject.

Mme. Delsarte started with a genuine talent. The situation in which she was placed, soon made
her a perfect accompanist. Never was there more perfect harmony between singer and player.
Amid the incessant interruptions necessary to a lesson, the piano never lagged a second either
in stopping or in going on again. The note fell promptly, identical with the first note of
the piece under study. To attain to this obedient precision, one must possess indomitable patience,
must be willing to be utterly effaced. Delsarte appreciated this self-denial in proportion
to the merit of her who practiced it.

In everything that concerned him, he relied especially upon the opinion of his accompanist;
he felt her to be an abler and more serious judge than the most of those around him. But--with
the shy reserve of merit unacknowledged even to itself,--the young woman shrank from expressing
her impressions. If I may judge by the anecdote which follows, the artist was at times distressed
by this.

One day Delsarte, granting one of those favors of which he was never lavish, consented to sing
a composition of which he was particularly fond, to a few friends. It was the air from Méhul's
"Joseph:" "Vainly doth Pharaoh ..."

Mme. Delsarte, always ready at the first call, took her seat at the piano.

The master was in the mood--that is, in full possession of all his powers. His pathos was heartrending.

"You won a great triumph," I said to him; "I saw tears in Mme. Delsarte's eyes."

"My wife's eyes," he cried as if struck by surprise, "are you quite sure?"

"Perfectly," I replied.

He seemed greatly pleased. Putting aside all other feeling, it was no slight triumph to move
to such a point one who assisted at and sat through his daily lessons for hours at a time.

A few years sufficed to form a family around this very young couple. It was soon a charming
accessory to see children fluttering about the house; slipping in among the scholars; showing
a furtive head--dark or light--at one of the doors of the lecture-room. Let me recall their
names: The eldest were Henri, Gustave, Adrien, Xavier, Marie; then came after a long interval,
André and Madeleine.

Delsarte loved them madly; for their future he dreamed all the dreams of the Arabian Nights.
Meantime, he played with them so happily that he seemed to take a personal delight in it.

He gave them all the joys of this life that were within his reach, and it was well that he
did so! Alas! of the dreams of glory cherished for these beloved beings, some few were realized,
but many faded promptly with the existence of those who called them forth.

But we must not anticipate. At the time of which I speak the children were growing and developing,
each according to its nature, in full freedom. Those who felt a vocation seized on the wing--rather
than they received from irregular lessons--some fragments of that great art which was taught
in the school.

Marie learned while very young to reproduce with marvelous skill what were called the attitudes
and the physiognomic changes. Madeleine delighted in making caricatures which showed great
talent. The features of certain pupils and frequenters of the lectures were plainly recognizable
in these sketches made by a childish hand.

Gustave was a child of an open face and broad shoulders. One incident will show his originality.

A strange lady came to the master's house one day either to ask a hearing or offer a pupil.
She met this charming boy.

"M. Delsarte?" she asked.

"I am he, madam!" replied Gustave without flinching.

"Very good," said his questioner, laughing, "but I wish to speak to your father."

This same Gustave who, to a certain degree, followed in his father's footsteps, was struck
down a few years after him, at the age of forty-two.

What a striking application of Victor Hugo's lines:

    "And both are dead.... Oh Lord, all powerful is thy right hand!"

Gustave's career seemed to open readily and smoothly. Not that he could approach his father
from a dramatic point of view; he had not his absolute synthesis of talents, and his figure
was not suited to the theatre; as a singer, his voice was weak, but what a charm and what a
style he had! Although his voice was not adapted to every part, although he had not that range
of the vocal scale which permits one to attack any and every composition, still, its sympathetic,
tender and penetrating quality did ample justice to all that is most exquisite in romance.
When you had once heard that voice, guided by the force of his father's grand method, you never
forgot its sincerity and melancholy; it haunted you and left you impatient to hear it again.

As a concert-singer and teacher, Gustave Delsarte might have won high rank. An ill-assorted
marriage and his misanthropic character prevented. As a composer, he left some few songs, masses
and religious fragments which are not without merit. When he was to produce any of his sacred
works, the composer-singer never took a part; but he would lead the orchestra. If he came to
a rehearsal and the performers appeared weak, a holy wrath would seize upon Gustave. Then he
flung a firm, incisive, accentuated note into the midst of the choir, vivid as a spark bursting
from a fire covered with ashes. He would accompany it with a glance which seemed to flash from
his father's eye; at such moments, he resembled him; but this transformation never lasted more
than a second; the fictitious power disappeared as all which was Gustave Delsarte was doomed
to disappear.

At least, his father did not live to mourn his loss. And yet he knew that worst of heart-suffering:
the loss of a beloved child. Alas! In that radiant family, whose mirth, fresh faces and luxuriant
health seemed to defy death, the implacable foe had already twice swept his scythe.

The first to go was André, one of the latest born. He was at the age when the child leaves
no lasting memories behind; but we know the grace of innocence, the privilege of impeccability
by which infancy atones for the lack of acquirements. Then these little creatures have the
mysterious entrancing smiles, which mothers understand and adore--and Delsarte loved his children
with a mother's heart.

Time lessens such pangs; but when a fresh sorrow re-opened the era of calamity, it seems as
if the sad events trod upon each other's heels and the interval between seems to have been
but one unmitigated agony.

The loss undergone in 1863 was even greater. Xavier Delsarte was a tall, handsome young man.
The master was content with the profit which his son had derived from his tuition. He was successful
as a singer and elocutionist. He was attacked by cholera during an epidemic. The night before
he had taken several glasses of iced orgeat in the open air.

Xavier lived in the Rue des Batailles with his family, but not in the same apartment. This
fact was fatal. Instead of calling help in the first stages--unwilling to disturb his relatives--the
invalid wandered down stairs during the night, and into the court-yard. There he drank water
from the pump. I can still recall the unhappy father's story of that cruel moment.

"It was scarcely day. I was waked by that unexpected, fatal ringing of the bell, which, at
such an hour, always bodes misfortune. The maid heard it also, and opened the door. She uttered
a cry of alarm. Almost instantly, my poor boy stood at my chamber door. He leaned against the
frame of the door, his strength not allowing him to advance. From the change in his features,
I understood all--he was hopelessly lost!"

Delsarte was sensitive and of a very loving nature; but he was endowed with great strength.
Much absorbed, moreover, in his profession, his studies, his innovations, he often found in
them a counterpoise to these rude blows of fate. So when the thoughts of his friends recur
to these disasters, they feel that their greatest sympathy and commiseration are due to the
mother who three times underwent this supreme martyrdom.

Two names remain to be mentioned in this family where artistic callings seemed a matter of
course. The concerts of Madame Thérèsa Wartel--sister of Madame Delsarte--brought together
the élite of Parisian virtuosi, and the brilliant pianist took her part in the quatuors in
which Sauzay, Allard, Franchomme and other celebrities of the period figured.

George Bizet--author of the opera of "Carmen"--prematurely snatched from the arts, was the
nephew of François Delsarte. This young man taught himself Sanscrit unaided; he inspired the
greatest hopes.

Wartel, who gave Christine Nilsson her musical education, was not of the same blood, but we
find certain points in his method which recall the processes of Delsarte's school.

Chapter XII.

Delsarte's Religion.

I now confront an important and very interesting subject; but one which is more difficult to
handle than the most prickly briers. There has been a confusion, in regard to Delsarte, of
two very distinct things: his practical devotion and his philosophy of art, which does indeed
assume a religious character. He himself helped on this confusion. I am desirous of doing my
best to put an end to it. I hope that, truth and sincerity aiding, I shall not find the task
too great for me.

I must first grapple with those ill-informed persons who have denied the master his high intellectual
faculties, and even his scientific discoveries, for the sole reason of the mystical side of
his beliefs. I must also expose the error of those who supposed that to this mysticism were
attributable the miracles accomplished by Delsarte in his career as artist and scholar.

I was the better able to understand these two opposing elements--religiousness and strength
of understanding--because, if I gave in my entire adhesion to the innovator in the arts, he
did not find me equally docile in what concerned the theosophic part of his doctrine. Hence,
discussions which illustrated the subject. I speak in presence of his memory as I did before
him, with perfect frankness and simplicity of heart; taking care not to offend the objects
of his veneration, but examining without regard to his memory, as without prejudice, the influence
which his convictions exerted upon his intellectual conceptions, his ideas, his character,
his talent--in a word, his life, in so far as it may concern a sketch which lays no claim to
be a complete biography.

Now, it is from the point of view of art itself that I ask the following questions: Was Delsarte
a devout Catholic? Was he orthodox?

Devout? He gloried in it, he insisted on it; I will not say that he affected minute daily acts
of devotion, for that word would not accord with the spontaneity of his nature; but he accented
his demonstrations, he spoke constantly of his religion. Without any intention to wrong the
serious side of his religious feelings, it seemed to be a bravado put on for the incredulous,
a toy which he converted into a weapon.

Orthodox? He made it his boast, and he certainly intended to be so; he loved, in many circumstances,
to show his humility of heart. His faith, he used to say, "was the charcoal-burner's faith."

And yet, the charcoal-burner would have been strangely puzzled if he had had to sustain the
ceaseless contests which the artist accepted or provoked from philosophers and free-thinkers;
and, perhaps, no less frequently, from his fellow-religionists, and the priests themselves.

With the former, it was a mere question of dogmatic forms or of the necessity for some form
of religion; with the latter, he entered upon a more peculiarly theological order of ideas,
such as the attributes proper to each of the three divine persons, and other mystical subjects.

