     "That we regard with great satisfaction the conduct of the
     Executive of our State, who, at the suggestion of the Senator and
     Representatives of our county, assumed the control and
     responsibilities of the trial; and that we tender our sincere
     thanks to the distinguished counsel, Attorney-General Campbell
     and Judge Bell, who visited at different times this place to
     become familiar with and to give encouragement to the witnesses
     to about to testify in another State, thus accomplishing the
     object as well by their urbanity as well as by their professional
     skill.

     "That we express our sincere acknowledgement of the courtesy
     shown us by the Court of Baltimore county, both by the bench and
     bar and especially to Wm. H. Norris, Esq., for his invaluable
     services, associated as counsel with those from our own State.

     "That we deplore the death of Joseph C. Miller, a witness in the
     first trial before the magistrate's court, and believing, as we
     most positively do, that he came to his death violently by other
     hands than his own, we implore the Executive to offer a suitable
     reward, in addition to that offered by his friends, for the
     discovery and apprehension of his murderers.

                              JOHN M. DICKEY,
                                            Chairman."
                              HUGH ROWLAND, Secretary.

It may be added that the Grand Jury of Chester county brought in a true bill against Thomas
McCrery and Merritt, his associate, for kidnapping. But Governor Lowe of Maryland refused the
requisition for apprehension and delivery, going behind the record, contrary to the law, as
Governor Bigler of Pennsylvania demonstrated clearly in the published correspondence.

SOME OHIO NEGRO PIONEERS

In 1835 some of the earnest free colored people of Virginia were interested in reports of the
great opportunities for colored folk in the State of Ohio, so often called the Buckeye State.
At that time there were no railroads from the slave State Virginia to Ohio, a free State. But
the determined freemen and their families undeterred by this drawback went forth in covered
wagon trains.

One of the earlier groups of pioneers consisted of several families from and near Richmond
Virginia; namely, Abraham Depp and his wife Mary Goode-Depp, Elias Litchford, James Poindexter,
and Archer Goode, with their families, and Samuel Willis Whyte accompanied by his son bearing
the same name, all of whom settled in central Ohio, not far from Columbus. Abraham Depp purchased
five or six hundred acres, south of Delaware; Litchford about the same number of acres nearer
Columbus; the elder Whyte, being a mechanic, purchased only about two hundred acres. Samuel
W. Whyte Jr. later left his trade for the profession of medicine and became noted as a specialist
of chronic diseases. Dr. Samuel Whyte married Miss Louisa Goode, daughter of Archer Goode.
She was of a peculiar sweet disposition, a model companion, and a loving earnest mother. She
as often called Saint Louisa by those who knew her best. She died in 1905.

The Doctor always kept in touch with the leading thoughts and achievements of his day. He was
a brilliant scholar, a great logician, with a keen wit, having a dash of eccentricity throughout;
in fact, he was a born philosopher, and a man of many parts. He was educated for missionary
work to Liberia, but he remained at home and became one of the landmarks of Central Ohio in
politics and medicine. He was born in 1815 and died in 1902, when, as it happened in the case
of his wife whom he survived seven years, he was borne to his final resting place from the
home where he had lived since 1835. Dr. Whyte and his wife had a large family of whom the writer,
H. Georgiana Whyte, alone bears the family name. The old homestead is retained by the descendents.

All through Ohio settled many such high minded, thoroughgoing Christian Negro families that
helped to build up Ohio and left large families, of worthy descendants. Of this pioneer group
one of the most prominent characters was James Poindexter, who sold his farm of forty acres
and went to Columbus, Ohio to live. He was a playmate and always an ardent friend of Dr. Samuel
Willis Whyte, Jr. There James Poindexter became a Baptist minister and during later years became
one of the foremost citizens of Columbus, having become a member of the city council and for
over forty years served as pastor of the most prominent Baptist church in the city. He was
in great demand as an orator before and after the Civil War. He lived to a ripe old age.

                                             H. GEORGIANA WHYTE.

THE ALEXANDERS

Henry Alexander a mulatto who lived at Mayslick, Kentucky, and who purchased his freedom when
twenty-one years of age, sent his two oldest daughters to school in Philadelphia as early as
1846. He was a store-keeper and grain merchant. In the fifties he sent three younger ones to
Oberlin, Ohio where Louisa Alexander was graduated in 1862. She and her older sister Rachel
taught in the South during the Reconstruction period and had many thrilling experiences. In
several instances their schools were closed and they were given so many hours to leave town.
Maria Ann, who went to school in Philadelphia, taught a while in Covington, Kentucky, strange
as it may seem, before the war. She was later married to the late Judge Mifflin W. Gibbs, an
unflinching advocate of human rights.

                                             Q. G. H.

BOOK REVIEWS

     The Correspondence of Robert M. T. Hunter, 1826-1876, Volume
     II. Edited by CHARLES HENRY AMBLER. Washington, 1918. Pp. 381.

This comprises the twelfth report of the Historical Manuscript Commission and is published
as the Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the year 1916. The contents
are a callendar of papers and addresses by Robert M. T. Hunter heretofore printed, a callendar
of letters to and from him printed in this volume, and the correspondence of the statesman.
The work of the author appears to be more of that of a collector than that of an editor, for
the volume has very little annotation. In the short preface the author undertakes to give the
place of Robert M. T. Hunter in the history of his State and of the nation and to evaluate
his correspondence. The excuse for such a short sketch is that Robert M. T. Hunter did not
stand out as a great statesman himself but owes his importance to following the leadership
of John C. Calhoun, and the period in which he lived was one of declining influence for his
State and later one of civil strife between the great sections of the nation. Although he served
the public almost continuously during the period of thirty years he held only a few positions
of trust, most of his service being in the United States Senate.

These letters, as a whole, are unusually valuable in that they throw light on various problems
perplexing the country during this critical period of American history between the year 1826
and 1876. Students of Negro history will be primarily interested in the letters in which we
find mention of the African trade with Brazil, his speeches on slavery, on the fight for Missouri
and Kansas, and on the abolition movement. His correspondence shows, moreover, what he thought
about the extension of slavery, the stealing of slaves, legislation regarding the institution,
and the power of Congress in the territories. There are references to the Compromise of 1850,
the execution of the Fugitive Slave Law, the struggle in Kansas, and the demands of the South
in the great crisis. The space which he gives to the opinions and the doctrines advanced by
Stephen A. Douglas, the rights of the slave States in the territories, the attitude of Seward,
and the election of 1860 is considerable.

As Robert M. T. Hunter lived to see the Reconstruction worked out, it is interesting to note
his attitude on the part he felt that the Negro should play in it. He did not believe that
the elevation of the Negro to the status of citizenship with the right to vote or hold office
would be good for this country. He referred frequently to the experience of Negro governments
in Haiti and Jamaica to support his theory. He felt that it would result in the formation of
the black man's party which would persecute the white man and the Negro control of affairs
would result in the destruction of all the elements of material prosperity and moral progress.
He believed that, as it happened in these islands, the black man's party would so persecute
the whites that they would be driven from the country, just as the Haitians had persecuted
the whites and made it illegal for them to hold real estate in the island. Even if the Negroes
did get control of the Southern States and persecute the whites in the way that he suspected
that they would, it would only be a matter of time before the North would rise up against the
blacks thus exalted and overthrow them. Hunter disclaimed any hostility toward the Negroes
but insisted that their welfare was to be promoted in a way that was contrary to their own
future plans.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Finding a Way Out. By ROBERT RUSSA MOTON, An Autobiography.
     Doubleday, Page and Company, New York, 1920. Pp. 295.

This story, according to the author, was written because of the repeated and urgent solicitation
of those of his friends believing that such a story would serve an essential purpose in helping
to a clearer understanding of the hopes and aspirations of the Negro and the difficulties which
they have had to overcome. The author has endeavored to record these events which have given
character and color to his life and at the same time to reflect the impressions made upon his
mind by experiences that he could not always reconcile with what he had learned of American
ideals and standards.

The story begins with an interesting account of the coming of the ancestors of Dr. Moton out
of Africa to serve in the new world. There is a short sketch of early life on the Virginia
plantation where his parents first connected themselves with America, covering the boy-hood,
early training and first impressions of the author of this work. The chapter treating of the
Reconstruction period, when as a youth the author was seeking an education and had to withstand
the temptation of being drawn into the inviting political world of these days of a seeming
golden age, adds increasing interest. Following this there appears an account of his career
at Hampton in the connection with General Armstrong as an outstanding figure of inspiration
and love. How the author at the close of his student days solved the problem of the choice
of a life work and became a leader among the black, the white, and the red, brings the reader
to the consideration of actual achievement. Serving Hampton as a representative travelling
through the North and the South, Dr. Moton found his way into larger fields of usefulness by
touching the life of the Negro in all of its ramifications.

