"Go ahead," said Metta. "You can git a fine look at yourself in the tall glass in the old lady's
bedroom."

Forthwith he went, profaning a sanctuary, to survey himself in a glass that had never reflected
anything but the discreet arraying of his employer's lady. He looked long and earnestly. The
effect was quite all he had hoped. He lowered the front of the broad-brimmed hat the least
bit, tightened his belt another notch and moved the holster to a better line. He looked again.
From feet to head he was perfect.

Then, slightly crouching, he drew his revolver from the holster and held it forward from the
hip, wrist and forearm rigidly straight.

"Throw up your hands!"

He uttered the grim words in a low tone, but one facing him would not have been deceived by
low tones. Steely-eyed, grim of face, relentless in all his bearing, the most desperate adversary
would have quailed. Probably even Gashwiler himself would have quailed. When Buck Benson looked
and spoke thus he meant it.

He held it a long, breathless moment before relaxing. Then he tiptoed softly from the hallowed
confines of a good woman's boudoir and clattered down the back stairs to the kitchen. He was
thinking: "I certainly got to get me another gun if I'm ever going to do Two-Gun Benson parts,
and I got to get the draw down better. I ain't quick enough yet."

"Well, did you like your rig?" inquired Metta genially.

"Oh, it'll do for the stills we're shooting to-day," replied the actor. "Of course I ought
to have a rattlesnake-skin band on my hat, and the things look too new yet. And say, Metta,
where's the clothesline? I want to practise roping a little before my camera man gets here."

"My stars! You're certainly goin' to be a real one, ain't you?"

She brought him the clothesline, in use only on Mondays. He re-coiled it carefully and made
a running noose in one end.

At two Lowell Hardy found his subject casting the rope at an inattentive Dexter. The old horse
stood in the yard, head down, one foot crossed nonchalantly before the other. A slight tremor,
a nervous flickering of his skin, was all that ensued when the rope grazed him. When it merely
fell in his general neighbourhood, as it oftener did, Dexter did not even glance up.

"Good stuff!" applauded the artist. "Now just stand that way, holding the noose out. I want
to make a study of that."

He rapidly mounted his camera on a tripod and put in a plate. The study was made. Followed
several studies of the fighting face of Two-Gun Benson, grim and rigid, about to shoot from
the hip. But these were minor bits. More important would be Buck Benson and his old pal, Pinto.
From the barn Merton dragged the saddle, blanket, and bridle he had borrowed from the Giddings
House livery stable. He had never saddled a horse before, but he had not studied in vain. He
seized Dexter by a wisp of his surviving mane and simultaneously planted a hearty kick in the
beast's side, with a command, "Get around there, you old skate!" Dexter sighed miserably and
got around as ordered. He was both pained and astonished. He knew that this was Sunday. Never
had he been forced to work on this day. But he meekly suffered the protrusion of a bit between
his yellow teeth, and shuddered but slightly when a blanket and then a heavy saddle were flung
across his back. True, he looked up in some dismay when the girth was tightened. Not once in
all his years had he been saddled. He was used to having things loose around his waist.

The girth went still tighter. Dexter glanced about with genuine concern. Someone was intending
to harm him. He curved his swanlike neck and snapped savagely at the shoulder of his aggressor,
who kicked him again in the aide and yelled, "Whoa, there, dang you!"

Dexter subsided. He saw it was no use. Whatever queer thing they meant to do to him would be
done despite all his resistance. Still his alarm had caused him to hold up his head now. He
was looking much more like a horse.

"There!" said Merton Gill, and as a finishing touch he lashed the coiled clothesline to the
front of the saddle. "Now, here! Get me this way. This is one of the best things I do--that
is, so far." Fondly he twined his arms about the long, thin neck of Dexter, who tossed his
head and knocked off the cowboy hat. "Never mind that--it's out," said Merton. "Can't use it
in this scene." He laid his cheek to the cheek of his pet. "Well, old pal, they're takin' yuh
from me, but we got to keep a stiff upper lip. You an' me has been through some purty lively
times together, but we got to face the music at last--there, Lowell, did you get that?"

The artist had made his study. He made three others of the same affecting scene at different
angles. Dexter was overwhelmed with endearments. Doubtless he was puzzled--to be kicked in
the ribs at one moment, the next to be fondled. But Lowell Hardy was enthusiastic. He said
he would have some corking studies. He made another of Buck Benson preparing to mount good
old Pinto; though, as a matter of fact, Buck, it appeared, was not even half prepared to mount.

"Go on, jump on him now," suggested the artist. "I'll get a few more that way."

"Well, I don't know," Merton hesitated. He was twenty-two years old, and he had never yet been
aboard a horse. Perhaps he shouldn't try to go too far in one lesson. "You see, the old boy's
pretty tired from his week's work. Maybe I better not mount him. Say, I'll tell you, take me
rolling a cigarette, just standing by him. I darned near forgot the cigarettes."

From the barn he brought a sack of tobacco and some brown papers. He had no intention of smoking,
but this kind of cigarette was too completely identified with Buck Benson to be left out. Lolling
against the side of Dexter, he poured tobacco from the sack into one of the papers. "Get me
this way," he directed, "just pouring it out."

He had not yet learned to roll a cigarette, but Gus Giddings, the Simsbury outlaw, had promised
to teach him. Anyway, it was enough now to be looking keenly out from under his hat while he
poured tobacco into the creased paper against the background of good old Pinto. An art study
of this pose was completed. But Lowell Hardy craved more action, more variety.

"Go on. Get up on him," he urged. "I want to make a study of that."

"Well"--again Merton faltered--"the old skate's tired out from a hard week, and I'm not feeling
any too lively myself."

"Shucks! It won't kill him if you get on his back for a minute, will it? And you'll want one
on him to show, won't you? Hurry up, while the light's right."

Yes, he would need a mounted study to show. Many times he had enacted a scene in which a director
had looked over the art studies of Clifford Armytage and handed them back with the remark,
"But you seem to play only society parts, Mr. Armytage. All very interesting, and I've no doubt
we can place you very soon; but just at present we're needing a lead for a Western, a man who
can look the part and ride."

Thereupon he handed these Buck Benson stills to the man, whose face would instantly relax into
an expression of pleased surprise.

"The very thing," he would say. And among those stills, certainly, should be one of Clifford
Armytage actually on the back of his horse. He'd chance it.

"All right; just a minute."

He clutched the bridle reins of Dexter under his drooping chin, and overcoming a feeble resistance
dragged him alongside the watering trough. Dexter at first thought he was wished to drink,
but a kick took that nonsense out of him. With extreme care Merton stood upon the edge of the
trough and thrust a leg blindly over the saddle. With some determined clambering he was at
last seated. His feet were in the stirrups. There was a strange light in his eyes. There was
a strange light in Dexter's eyes. To each of them the experience was not only without precedent
but rather unpleasant.

"Ride him out in the middle here, away from that well," directed the camera man.

"You--you better lead him out," suggested the rider. "I can feel him tremble already. He--he
might break down under me."

Metta Judson, from the back porch, here came into the piece with lines that the author had
assuredly not written for her.

"Giddap, there, you Dexter Gashwiler," called Metta loudly and with the best intentions.

"You keep still," commanded the rider severely, not turning his head. What a long way it seemed
to the ground! He had never dreamed that horses were so lofty. "Better lead him," he repeated
to his camera man.

Lowell Hardy grasped the bridle reins, and after many vain efforts persuaded Dexter to stumble
away from the well. His rider grasped the horn of his saddle.

"Look out, don't let him buck," he called.

But Dexter had again become motionless, except for a recurrent trembling under this monstrous
infliction.

"Now, there," began the artist. "Hold that. You're looking off over the Western hills. Atta
boy! Wait till I get a side view."

"Move your camera," said the rider. "Seems to me he doesn't want to turn around."

But again the artist turned Dexter half around. That wasn't so bad. Merton began to feel the
thrill of it. He even lounged in the saddle presently, one leg over the pommel, and seemed
about to roll another cigarette while another art study was made. He continued to lounge there
while the artist packed his camera. What had he been afraid of? He could sit a horse as well
as the next man; probably a few little tricks about it he hadn't learned yet, but he'd get
these, too.

"I bet they'll come out fine," he called to the departing artist. "Leave that to me. I dare
say I'll be able to do something good with them. So long."

"So long," returned Merton, and was left alone on the back of a horse higher than people would
think until they got on him. Indeed he was beginning to like it. If you just had a little nerve
you needn't be afraid of anything. Very carefully he clambered from the saddle. His old pal
shook himself with relief and stood once more with bowed head and crossed forelegs.

His late burden observed him approvingly. There was good old Pinto after a hard day's run over
the mesa. He had borne his beloved owner far ahead of the sheriff's posse, and was now securing
a moment's much-needed rest. Merton undid the riata and for half an hour practised casting
it at his immobile pet. Once the noose settled unerringly over the head of Dexter, who still
remained immobile.

Then there was the lightning draw to be practised. Again and again the trusty weapon of Buck
Benson flashed from its holster to the damage of a slower adversary. He was getting that draw
down pretty good. From the hip with straight wrist and forearm Buck was ready to shoot in no
time at all. Throughout that villain-infested terrain along the border he was known for his
quick draw. The most desperate of them would never molest him except they could shoot him from
behind. With his back to a wall, they slunk from the encounter.

Elated from this practice and from the memory of that one successful rope cast, Merton became
daring in the extreme. He considered nothing less than remounting his old pal and riding, in
the cool of early evening, up and down the alley upon which the barnyard gave. He coiled the
rope and again lashed it to the left front of the saddle. Then he curved an affectionate arm
over the arched neck of Pinto, who sighed deeply.

"Well, old pal, you and me has still got some mighty long miles to git over between now and
sunup to-morrow. I reckon we got to put a right smart of distance between us and that pesky
sheriff's posse, but I know yuh ain't lost heart, old pal."

Dexter here tossed his head, being cloyed with these embraces, and Two-Gun Benson caught a
look in the desperate eyes of his pet which he did not wholly like. Perhaps it would be better
not to ride him any more to-day. Perhaps it would be better not to ride him again until next
Sunday. After all, wasn't Dexter practically a wild horse, caught up from the range and broken
to saddle only that afternoon? No use overdoing it. At this moment the beast's back looked
higher than ever.

It was the cutting remark of a thoughtless, empty-headed girl that confirmed Merton in his
rash resolve. Metta Judson, again on the back steps, surveyed the scene with kindling eyes.

"I bet you daresn't get on him again," said Metta.

These were strong words; not words to be flung lightly at Two-Gun Benson.

"You know a lot about it, don't you?" parried Merton Gill.

"Afraid of that old skate!" murmured Metta, counterfeiting the inflections of pity.

Her target shot her a glance of equal pity for her lack of understanding and empty-headed banter.
He stalked to the barnyard gate and opened it. The way to his haven over the border was no
longer barred. He returned to Dexter, firmly grasped the bridle reins under his weak chin and
cajoled him again to the watering trough. Metta Judson was about to be overwhelmed with confusion.
From the edge of the trough he again clambered into the saddle, the new boots groping a way
to the stirrups. The reins in his left hand, he swept off his ideal hat with a careless gesture--he
wished he had had an art study made of this, but you can't think of everything at one time.
He turned loftily to Metta as one who had not even heard her tasteless taunts.

"Well, so long! I won't be out late." Metta was now convinced that she had in her heart done
this hero a wrong.

"You better be here before the folks get back!" she warned.

Merton knew this as well as she did, but the folks wouldn't be back for a couple of hours yet,
and all he meant to venture was a ride at sober pace the length of the alley.

"Oh, I'll take care of that!" he said. "A few miles' stiff gallop'll be all I want." He jerked
Dexter's head up, snapped the reins on his neck, and addressed him in genial, comradely but
authoritative tones.

"Git up there, old hoss!"

Dexter lowered his head again and remained as if posing conscientiously for the statue of a
tired horse.

"Giddap, there, you old skate!" again ordered the rider.

The comradely unction was gone from his voice and the bony neck received a smarter wallop with
the reins. Dexter stood unmoved. He seemed to be fearing that the worst was now coming, and
that he might as well face it on that spot as elsewhere. He remained deaf to threats and entreaties
alike. No hoof moved from its resting place.

"Giddap, there, you old Dexter Gashwiler!" ordered Metta, and was not rebuked. But neither
would Dexter yield to a woman's whim.

"I'll tell you!" said Merton, now contemptuous of his mount. "Get the buggy whip and tickle
his ribs."

Metta sped on his errand, her eyes shining with the lust for torture. With the frayed end of
the whip from the delivery wagon she lightly scored the exposed ribs of Dexter, tormenting
him with devilish cunning. Dexter's hide shuttled back and forth. He whinnied protestingly,
but did not stir even one hoof.

"That's the idea," said Merton, feeling scornfully secure on the back of this spiritless animal.
"Keep it up! I can feel him coming to life."

Metta kept it up. Her woman's ingenuity contrived new little tricks with the instrument of
torture. She would doubtless have had a responsible post with the Spanish Inquisition. Face
set, absorbed in her evil work, she tickled the ribs crosswise and tickled between them, up
and down, always with the artist's light touch.

Dexter's frame grew tense, his head came up. Once more he looked like a horse. He had been
brave to face destruction, but he found himself unable to face being tickled to death. If only
they had chosen some other method for his execution he would have perished gamely, but this
was exquisitely poignant--beyond endurance. He tossed his head and stepped into a trot toward
the open gate.

Metta yelled in triumph. The rider tossed his own head in rhythm to Dexter's trot. His whole
body tossed in the saddle; it was a fearsome pace; the sensations were like nothing he had
ever dreamed of. And he was so high above the good firm ground! Dexter continued his jolting
progress to the applause of Metta. The rider tried to command Metta to keep still, and merely
bit his tongue.

Stirred to life by the tickling, Dexter now became more acutely aware of that strange, restless
burden on his back, and was inspired to free himself from it. He increased his pace as he came
to the gate, and managed a backward kick with both heels. This lost the rider his stirrups
and left him less securely seated than he wished to be. He dropped the reins and grasped the
saddle's pommel with both hands.

He strangely seemed to consider the pommel the steering wheel of a motor car. He seemed to
be twisting it with the notion of guiding Dexter. All might have been well, but on losing his
stirrups the rider had firmly clasped his legs about the waist of the animal. Again and again
he tightened them, and now Dexter not only looked every inch a horse but very painfully to
his rider felt like one, for the spurs were goring him to a most seditious behavior. The mere
pace was slackened only that he might alarmingly kick and shake himself in a manner as terrifying
to the rider as it was unseemly in one of Dexter's years.

But the thing was inevitable, because once in his remote, hot youth Dexter, cavorting innocently
in an orchard, had kicked over a hive of busy bees which had been attending strictly to their
own affairs until that moment. After that they had attended to Dexter with a thoroughness that
had seared itself to this day across his memory. He now sincerely believed that he had overturned
another hive of bees, and that not but by the most strenuous exertion could he escape from
their harrying. They were stinging him venomously along his sides, biting deeper with every
jump. At last he would bear his rider safely over the border.

The rider clasped his mount ever more tightly. The deep dust of the alley road mounted high
over the spirited scene, and through it came not only the hearty delight of Metta Judson in
peals of womanly laughter, but the shrill cries of the three Ransom children whom Merton had
not before noticed. These were Calvin Ransom, aged eight; Elsie Ransom, aged six; and little
Woodrow Ransom, aged four. Their mother had lain down with a headache, having first ordered
them to take their picture books and sit quietly in the parlour as good children should on
a Sabbath afternoon. So they had noisily pretended to obtain the picture books and then quietly
tiptoed out into the backyard, which was not so stuffy as the parlour.

Detecting the meritorious doings in the Gashwiler barnyard, they perched in a row on the alley
fence and had been excited spectators from the moment that Merton had mounted his horse.

In shrill but friendly voices they had piped, "Oh, Merton Gill's a cowboy, Merton Gill's a
cowboy! Oh, looka the cowboy on the big horse!"

For of course they were motion-picture experts and would know a cowboy when they saw one. Wide-eyed,
they followed the perilous antics of Dexter as he issued from the alley gate, and they screamed
with childish delight when the spurs had recalled to his memory that far-off dreadful day with
the busy bees. They now balanced precariously on the alley fence, the better to trace Merton's
flight through the dust cloud. "Merton's in a runaway, Merton's in a runaway, Merton's in a
runaway!" they shrieked, but with none of the sympathy that would have become them. They appeared
to rejoice in Merton's plight. "Merton's in a runaway," they joyously chanted.

Suddenly they ceased, frozen with a new and splendid wonder, for their descriptive phrase was
now inexact. Merton was no longer in a runaway. But only for a moment did they hesitate before
taking up the new chant.

"Looky, looky. He's throwed Merton right off into the dirt. He's throwed Merton right off into
the dirt. Oh, looky Merton Gill right down there in the dirt!"

Again they had become exact. Merton was right down there in the dirt, and a frantic, flashing-heeled
Dexter was vanishing up the alley at the head of a cloud of dust. The friendly Ransom tots
leaped from the fence to the alley, forgetting on her bed of pain the mother who supposed them
to be engrossed with picture books in the library. With one accord they ran toward the prostrate
horseman, Calvin ahead and Elsie a close second, holding the hand of little Woodrow.

They were presently able to observe that the fleeing Dexter had narrowly escaped running down
a motor car inopportunely turning at that moment into the alley. The gallant animal swerved
in time, leaving the car's driver and his wife aghast at their slight margin of safety. Dexter
vanished to the right up shaded Spruce Street on a Sabbath evening as the first call to evening
worship pealed from a neighbouring church tower.

His late rider had erected himself and was beating dust from the new chaps and the front of
the new shirt. He picked up the ideal hat and dusted that. Underneath all the flurry of this
adventure he was still the artist. He had been set afoot in the desert by a treacherous horse;
he must find a water hole or perish with thirst. He replaced the hat, and it was then he observed
the motor car bearing down the alley upon him.

"My good gosh!" he muttered.

The Gashwilers had returned a full two hours before their accustomed time. The car halted beside
him and his employer leaned out a warmly hostile face.

"What's this mean?" he demanded.

The time was not one to tell Gashwiler what he thought of him. Not only was there a lady present,
but he felt himself at a disadvantage. The lady saved him from an instant necessity for words.

"That was our new clothesline; I recognized it at once." The woman seemed to pride herself
on this paltry feat.

"What's this mean?" again demanded Gashwiler. He was now a man of one idea.

Again was Merton Gill saved from the need of instant speech, though not in a way he would have
chosen to be saved. The three Ransom children ran up, breathless, shouting.

"Oh, Merton, here's your pistol. I found it right in the road there." "We found your pistol
right in the dirt there. I saw it first." "You did not; I saw it first. Merton, will you let
me shoot it off, Merton? I found your pistol, didn't I, Merton? Didn't I find it right in the
road there?" The friendly tots did little step dances while they were thus vocal.

"Be quiet, children," commanded Merton, finding a voice. But they were not to be quelled by
mere tones.

"He throwed Merton right off into the dirt, didn't he, Merton? Merton, didn't he throw you
right off into the dirt, Merton? Did he hurt you, Merton?" "Merton, will you let me shoot it
off just once--just once, and I'll never ask again?" "He didn't either find it first, Merton."
"He throwed you off right into the dirt--didn't he throw you right off into the dirt, Merton?"

With a harsher show of authority, or perhaps merely because he was bearded--so unreasoning
are the inhibitions of the young--Gashwiler stilled the tumult. The dancing died. "What's this
mean?" he repeated.

"We nearly had an accident," said the lady.

"What's this mean?"

An answer of sorts could no longer be delayed.

