THE

LIFE OF CICERO

BY

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL. I.

NEW YORK HARPER & BROTHERS, FRANKLIN SQUARE 1881

 CONTENTS OF VOLUME I.

  CHAPTER I.
                                         PAGE
  INTRODUCTION.                             7

  CHAPTER II.

  HIS EDUCATION.                           40

  CHAPTER III.

  THE CONDITION OF ROME.                   62

  CHAPTER IV.

  HIS EARLY PLEADINGS.--SEXTUS ROSCIUS
    AMERINUS.--HIS INCOME.                 80

  CHAPTER V.

  CICERO AS QUÆSTOR.                      107

  CHAPTER VI.

  VERRES.                                 124

  CHAPTER VII.

  CICERO AS ÆDILE AND PRÆTOR.             162

  CHAPTER VIII.

  CICERO AS CONSUL.                       184

  CHAPTER IX.

  CATILINE.                               206

  CHAPTER X.

  CICERO AFTER HIS CONSULSHIP.            240

  CHAPTER XI.

  THE TRIUMVIRATE.                        264

  CHAPTER XII.

  HIS EXILE.                              297

       *       *       *       *       *

  APPENDICES.

  APPENDIX A.                             335

  APPENDIX B.                             340

  APPENDIX C.                             242

  APPENDIX D.                             345

  APPENDIX E.                             347

THE LIFE OF CICERO.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTION.

I am conscious of a certain audacity in thus attempting to give a further life of Cicero which
I feel I may probably fail in justifying by any new information; and on this account the enterprise,
though it has been long considered, has been postponed, so that it may be left for those who
come after me to burn or publish, as they may think proper; or, should it appear during my
life, I may have become callous, through age, to criticism.

The project of my work was anterior to the life by Mr. Forsyth, and was first suggested to
me as I was reviewing the earlier volumes of Dean Merivale's History of the Romans under the
Empire. In an article on the Dean's work, prepared for one of the magazines of the day, I inserted
an apology for the character of Cicero, which was found to be too long as an episode, and was
discarded by me, not without regret. From that time the subject has grown in my estimation
till it has reached its present dimensions.

I may say with truth that my book has sprung from love of the man, and from a heartfelt admiration
of his virtues and his conduct, as well as of his gifts. I must acknowledge that in discussing
his character with men of letters, as I have been prone to do, I have found none quite to agree
with me. His intellect they have admitted, and his industry; but his patriotism they have doubted,
his sincerity they have disputed, and his courage they have denied. It might have become me
to have been silenced by their verdict; but I have rather been instigated to appeal to the
public, and to ask them to agree with me against my friends. It is not only that Cicero has
touched all matters of interest to men, and has given a new grace to all that he has touched;
that as an orator, a rhetorician, an essayist, and a correspondent he was supreme; that as
a statesman he was honest, as an advocate fearless, and as a governor pure; that he was a man
whose intellectual part always dominated that of the body; that in taste he was excellent,
in thought both correct and enterprising, and that in language he was perfect. All this has
been already so said of him by other biographers. Plutarch, who is as familiar to us as though
he had been English, and Middleton, who thoroughly loved his subject, and latterly Mr. Forsyth,
who has struggled to be honest to him, might have sufficed as telling us so much as that. But
there was a humanity in Cicero, a something almost of Christianity, a stepping forward out
of the dead intellectualities of Roman life into moral perceptions, into natural affections,
into domesticity, philanthropy, and conscious discharge of duty, which do not seem to have
been as yet fully appreciated. To have loved his neighbor as himself before the teaching of
Christ was much for a man to achieve; and that he did this is what I claim for Cicero, and
hope to bring home to the minds of those who can find time for reading yet another added to
the constantly increasing volumes about Roman times.

It has been the habit of some latter writers, who have left to Cicero his literary honors,
to rob him of those which had been accorded to him as a politician. Macaulay, expressing his
surprise at the fecundity of Cicero, and then passing on to the praise of the Philippics as
senatorial speeches, says of him that he seems to have been at the head of the "minds of the
second order." We cannot judge of the classification without knowing how many of the great
men of the world are to be included in the first rank. But Macaulay probably intended to express
an opinion that Cicero was inferior because he himself had never dominated others as Marius
had done, and Sylla, and Pompey, and Cæsar, and Augustus. But what if Cicero was ambitious
for the good of others, while these men had desired power only for themselves?

Dean Merivale says that Cicero was "discreet and decorous," as with a similar sneer another
clergyman, Sydney Smith, ridiculed a Tory prime-minister because he was true to his wife. There
is nothing so open to the bitterness of a little joke as those humble virtues by which no glitter
can be gained, but only the happiness of many preserved. And the Dean declares that Cicero
himself was not, except once or twice, and for a "moment only, a real power in the State."
Men who usurped authority, such as those I have named, were the "real powers," and it was in
opposition to such usurpation that Cicero was always urgent. Mr. Forsyth, who, as I have said,
strives to be impartial, tells us that "the chief fault of Cicero's moral character was a want
of sincerity." Absence of sincerity there was not. Deficiency of sincerity there was. Who among
men has been free from such blame since history and the lives of men were first written? It
will be my object to show that though less than godlike in that gift, by comparison with other
men around him he was sincere, as he was also self-denying; which, if the two virtues be well
examined, will indicate the same phase of character.

But of all modern writers Mr. Froude has been the hardest to Cicero. His sketch of the life
of Cæsar is one prolonged censure on that of Cicero. Our historian, with all that glory of
language for which he is so remarkable, has covered the poor orator with obloquy. There is
no period in Cicero's life so touching, I think, as that during which he was hesitating whether,
in the service of the Republic, it did or did not behoove him to join Pompey before the battle
of Pharsalia. At this time he wrote to his friend Atticus various letters full of agonizing
doubts as to what was demanded from him by his duty to his country, by his friendship for Pompey,
by loyalty to his party, and by his own dignity. The "It has been seen" refers to a statement
made a few pages earlier, in which he translates certain words written by Cicero to Atticus.[2]
"He considered it a disgrace to them that Cæsar was alive." That is his translation; and in
his indignation he puts other words, as it were, into the mouth of his literary brother of
two thousand years before. "Why did not somebody kill him?" The Latin words themselves are
added in a note, "Cum vivere ipsum turpe sit nobis."[3] Hot indignation has so carried the
translator away that he has missed the very sense of Cicero's language. "When even to draw
the breath of life at such a time is a disgrace to us!" That is what Cicero meant. Mr. Froude
in a preceding passage gives us another passage from a letter to Atticus,[4] "Cæsar was mortal."[5]
So much is an intended translation. Then Mr. Froude tells us how Cicero had "hailed Cæsar's
eventual murder with rapture;" and goes on to say, "We read the words with sorrow and yet with
pity." But Cicero had never dreamed of Cæsar's murder. "I bethought myself in the first place
that this man was mortal, and then that there were a hundred ways in which he might be put
on one side." All the latter authorities have, I believe, supposed the "hunc" or "this man"
to be Pompey. I should say that this was proved by the gist of the whole letter--one of the
most interesting that was ever written, as telling the workings of a great man's mind at a
peculiar crisis of his life--did I not know that former learned editors have supposed Cæsar
to have been meant. But whether Cæsar or Pompey, there is nothing in it to do with murder.
It is a question--Cicero is saying to his friend--of the stability of the Republic. When a
matter so great is considered, how is a man to trouble himself as to an individual who may
die any day, or cease from any accident to be of weight? Cicero was speaking of the effect
of this or that step on his own part. Am I, he says, for the sake of Pompey to bring down hordes
of barbarians on my own country, sacrificing the Republic for the sake of a friend who is here
to-day and may be gone to-morrow? Or for the sake of an enemy, if the reader thinks that the
"hunc" refers to Cæsar. The argument is the same. Am I to consider an individual when the Republic
is at stake? Mr. Froude tells us that he reads "the words with sorrow and yet with pity." So
would every one, I think, sympathizing with the patriot's doubts as to his leader, as to his
party, and as to his country. Mr. Froude does so because he gathers from them that Cicero is
premeditating the murder of Cæsar!

It is natural that a man should be judged out of his own mouth. A man who speaks much, and
so speaks that his words shall be listened to and read, will be so judged. But it is not too
much to demand that when a man's character is at stake his own words shall be thoroughly sifted
before they are used against him.

The writer of the biographical notice in the Encyclopedia Britannica on Cicero, sends down
to posterity a statement that in the time of the first triumvirate, when our hero was withstanding
the machinations of Cæsar and Pompey against the liberties of Rome, he was open to be bought.
The augurship would have bought him. "So pitiful," says the biographer, "was the bribe to which
he would have sacrificed his honor, his opinions, and the commonwealth!" With no more sententious
language was the character of a great man ever offered up to public scorn. And on what evidence?
We should have known nothing of the bribe and the corruption but for a few playful words in
a letter from Cicero himself to Atticus. He is writing from one of his villas to his friend
in Rome, and asks for the news of the day: Who are to be the new consuls? Who is to have the
vacant augurship? Ah, says he, they might have caught even me with that bait;[6] as he said
on another occasion that he was so much in debt as to be fit for a rebel; and again, as I shall
have to explain just now, that he was like to be called in question under the Cincian law because
of a present of books! This was just at the point of his life when he was declining all offers
of public service--of public service for which his soul longed--because they were made to him
by Cæsar. It was then that the "Vigintiviratus" was refused, which Quintilian mentions to his
honor. It was then that he refused to be Cæsar's lieutenant. It was then that he might have
been fourth with Cæsar, and Pompey, and Crassus, had he not felt himself bound not to serve
against the Republic. And yet the biographer does not hesitate to load him with infamy because
of a playful word in a letter half jocose and half pathetic to his friend. If a man's deeds
be always honest, surely he should not be accused of dishonesty on the strength of some light
word spoken in the confidence of familiar intercourse. The light words are taken to be grave
because they meet the modern critic's eye clothed in the majesty of a dead language; and thus
it comes to pass that their very meaning is misunderstood.

My friend Mr. Collins speaks, in his charming little volume on Cicero, of "quiet evasions"
of the Cincian law,[7] and tells us that we are taught by Cicero's letters not to trust Cicero's
words when he was in a boasting vein. What has the one thing to do with the other? He names
no quiet evasions. Mr. Collins makes a surmise, by which the character of Cicero for honesty
is impugned--without evidence. The anonymous biographer altogether misinterprets Cicero. Mr.
Froude charges Cicero with anticipation of murder, grounding his charge on words which he has
not taken the trouble to understand. Cicero is accused on the strength of his own private letters.
It is because we have not the private letters of other persons that they are not so accused.
The courtesies of the world exact, I will not say demand, certain deviations from straightforward
expression; and these are made most often in private conversations and in private correspondence.
Cicero complies with the ways of the world; but his epistles are no longer private, and he
is therefore subjected to charges of falsehood. It is because Cicero's letters, written altogether
for privacy, have been found worthy to be made public that such accusations have been made.
When the injustice of these critics strikes me, I almost wish that Cicero's letters had not
been preserved.

As I have referred to the evidence of those who have, in these latter days, spoken against
Cicero, I will endeavor to place before the reader the testimony of his character which was
given by writers, chiefly of his own nation, who dealt with his name for the hundred and fifty
years after his death--from the time of Augustus down to that of Adrian--a period much given
to literature, in which the name of a politician and a man of literature would assuredly be
much discussed. Readers will see in what language he was spoken of by those who came after
him. I trust they will believe that if I knew of testimony on the other side, of records adverse
to the man, I would give them. The first passage to which I will allude does not bear Cicero's
name; and it may be that I am wrong in assuming honor to Cicero from a passage in poetry, itself
so famous, in which no direct allusion is made to himself. But the idea that Virgil in the
following lines refers to the manner in which Cicero soothed the multitude who rose to destroy
the theatre when the knights took their front seats in accordance with Otho's law, does not
originate with me.

This, if it be not intended for a portrait of Cicero on that occasion, exactly describes his
position and his success. We have a fragment of Cornelius Nepos, the biographer of the Augustan
age, declaring that at Cicero's death men had to doubt whether literature or the Republic had
lost the most.[9] Livy declared of him only, that he would be the best writer of Latin prose
who was most like to Cicero.[10] Velleius Paterculus, who wrote in the time of Tiberius, speaks
of Cicero's achievements with the highest honor. "At this period," he says, "lived Marcus Cicero,
who owed everything to himself; a man of altogether a new family, as distinguished for ability
as he was for the purity of his life."[11] Valerius Maximus quotes him as an example of a forgiving
character.[12] Perhaps the warmest praise ever given to him came from the pen of Pliny the
elder, from whose address to the memory of Cicero I will quote only a few words, as I shall
refer to it more at length when speaking of his consulship. "Hail thou," says Pliny, "who first
among men was called the father of your country."[13] Martial, in one of his distichs, tells
the traveller that if he have but a book of Cicero's writing he may fancy that he is travelling
with Cicero himself.[14] Lucan, in his bombastic verse, declares how Cicero dared to speak
of peace in the camp of Pharsalia. The reader may think that Cicero should have said nothing
of the kind, but Lucan mentions him with all honor.[15] Not Tacitus, as I think, but some author
whose essay De Oratoribus was written about the time of Tacitus, and whose work has come to
us with the name of Tacitus, has told us of Cicero that he was a master of logic, of ethics,
and of physical science.[16] Everybody remembers the passage in Juvenal,

                               "Sed Roma parentem
    Roma patrem patriæ Ciceronem libera dixit."

"Rome, even when she was free, declared him to be the father of his country."[17] Even Plutarch,
who generally seems to have a touch of jealousy when speaking of Cicero, declares that he verified
the prediction of Plato, "That every State would be delivered from its calamities whenever
power should fortunately unite with wisdom and justice in one person."[18] The praises of Quintilian
as to the man are so mixed with the admiration of the critic for the hero of letters, that
I would have omitted to mention them here were it not that they will help to declare what was
the general opinion as to Cicero at the time in which it was written. He has been speaking
of Demosthenes,[19] and then goes on: "Nor in regard to Cicero do I see that he ever failed
in the duty of a good citizen. There is in evidence of this the splendor of his consulship,
the rare integrity of his provincial administration, his refusal of office under Cæsar,[20]
the firmness of his mind on the civil wars, giving way neither to hope nor fear, though these
sorrows came heavily on him in his old age. On all these occasions he did the best he could
for the Republic." Florus, who wrote after the twelve Cæsars, in the time of Trajan and of
Adrian, whose rapid summary of Roman events can hardly be called a history, tells us, in a
few words, how Catiline's conspiracy was crushed by the authority of Cicero and Cato in opposition
to that of Cæsar.[21] Then, when he has passed in a few short chapters over all the intervening
history of the Roman Empire, he relates, in pathetic words, the death of Cicero. "It was the
custom in Rome to put up on the rostra the heads of those who had been slain; but now the city
was not able to restrain its tears when the head of Cicero was seen there, upon the spot from
which the citizens had so often listened to his words."[22] Such is the testimony given to
this man by the writers who may be supposed to have known most of him as having been nearest
to his time. They all wrote after him. Sallust, who was certainly his enemy, wrote of him in
his lifetime, but never wrote in his dispraise. It is evident that public opinion forbade him
to do so. Sallust is never warm in Cicero's praise, as were those subsequent authors whose
words I have quoted, and has been made subject to reproach for envy, for having passed too
lightly over Cicero's doings and words in his account of Catiline's conspiracy; but what he
did say was to Cicero's credit. Men had heard of the danger, and therefore, says Sallust,[23]
"They conceived the idea of intrusting the consulship to Cicero. For before that the nobles
were envious, and thought that the consulship would be polluted if it were conferred on a novus
homo, however distinguished. But when danger came, envy and pride had to give way." He afterward
declares that Cicero made a speech against Catiline most brilliant, and at the same time useful
to the Republic. This was lukewarm praise, but coming from Sallust, who would have censured
if he could, it is as eloquent as any eulogy. There is extant a passage attributed to Sallust
full of virulent abuse of Cicero, but no one now imagines that Sallust wrote it. It is called
the Declamation of Sallust against Cicero, and bears intrinsic evidence that it was written
in after years. It suited some one to forge pretended invectives between Sallust and Cicero,
and is chiefly noteworthy here because it gives to Dio Cassius a foundation for the hardest
of hard words he said against the orator.[24]

Dio Cassius was a Greek who wrote in the reign of Alexander Severus, more than two centuries
and a half after the death of Cicero, and he no doubt speaks evil enough of our hero. What
was the special cause of jealousy on his part cannot probably be now known, but the nature
of his hatred may be gathered from the passage in the note, which is so foul-mouthed that it
can be only inserted under the veil of his own language.[25] Among other absurdities Dio Cassius
says of Cicero that in his latter days he put away a gay young wife, forty years younger than
himself, in order that he might enjoy without disturbance the company of another lady who was
nearly as much older than himself as his wife was younger.

Now I ask, having brought forward so strong a testimony, not, I will say, as to the character
of the man, but of the estimation in which he was held by those who came shortly after him
in his own country; having shown, as I profess that I have shown, that his name was always
treated with singular dignity and respect, not only by the lovers of the old Republic but by
the minions of the Empire; having found that no charge was ever made against him either for
insincerity or cowardice or dishonesty by those who dealt commonly with his name, am I not
justified in saying that they who have in later days accused him should have shown their authority?
Their authority they have always found in his own words. It is on his own evidence against
himself that they have depended--on his own evidence, or occasionally on their own surmises.
When we are told of his cowardice, because those human vacillations of his, humane as well
as human, have been laid bare to us as they came quivering out of his bosom on to his fingers!
He is a coward to the critics because they have written without giving themselves time to feel
the true meaning of his own words. If we had only known his acts and not his words--how he
stood up against the judges at the trial of Verres, with what courage he encountered the responsibility
of his doings at the time of Catiline, how he joined Pompey in Macedonia from a sense of sheer
duty, how he defied Antony when to defy Antony was probable death--then we should not call
him a coward! It is out of his own mouth that he is condemned. Then surely his words should
be understood. Queen Christina says of him, in one of her maxims, that "Cicero was the only
coward that was capable of great actions." The Queen of Sweden, whose sentences are never worth
very much, has known her history well enough to have learned that Cicero's acts were noble,
but has not understood the meaning of words sufficiently to extract from Cicero's own expressions
their true bearing. The bravest of us all, if he is in high place, has to doubt much before
he can know what true courage will demand of him; and these doubts the man of words will express,
if there be given to him an alter ego such as Cicero had in Atticus.

In reference to the biography of Mr Forsyth I must, in justice both to him and to Cicero, quote
one passage from the work: "Let those who, like De Quincey,[26] Mommsen, and others, speak
disparagingly of Cicero, and are so lavish in praise of Cæsar, recollect that Cæsar never was
troubled by a conscience." Here it is that we find that advance almost to Christianity of which
I have spoken, and that superiority of mind being which makes Cicero the most fit to be loved
of all the Romans.

It is hard for a man, even in regard to his own private purposes, to analyze the meaning of
a conscience, if he put out of question all belief in a future life. Why should a man do right
if it be not for a reward here or hereafter? Why should anything be right--or wrong? The Stoics
tried to get over the difficulty by declaring that if a man could conquer all his personal
desires he would become, by doing so, happy, and would therefore have achieved the only end
at which a man can rationally aim. The school had many scholars, but probably never a believer.
The normal Greek or Roman might be deterred by the law, which means fear of punishment, or
by the opinion of his neighbors, which means ignominy. He might recognize the fact that comfort
would combine itself with innocence, or disease and want with lust and greed. In this there
was little need of a conscience--hardly, perhaps, room for it. But when ambition came, with
all the opportunities that chance, audacity, and intellect would give--as it did to Sylla,
to Cæsar, and to Augustus--then there was nothing to restrain the men. There was to such a
man no right but his power, no wrong but opposition to it. His cruelty or his clemency might
be more or less, as his conviction of the utility of this or that other weapon for dominating
men might be strong with him. Or there might be some variation in the flowing of the blood
about his heart which might make a massacre of citizens a pleasing diversion or a painful process
to him; but there was no conscience. With the man of whom we are about to speak conscience
was strong. In his sometimes doubtful wanderings after political wisdom--in those mental mazes
which have been called insincerity--we shall see him, if we look well into his doings, struggling
to find whether, in searching for what was his duty, he should go to this side or to that.
Might he best hope a return to that state of things which he thought good for his country by
adhering to Cæsar or to Pompey? We see the workings of his conscience, and, as we remember
that Scipio's dream of his, we feel sure that he had, in truth, within him a recognition of
a future life.

In discussing the character of a man, there is no course of error so fertile as the drawing
of a hard and fast line. We are attracted by salient points, and, seeing them clearly, we jump
to conclusions, as though there were a light-house on every point by which the nature of the
coast would certainly be shown to us. And so it will, if we accept the light only for so much
of the shore as it illumines. But to say that a man is insincere because he has vacillated
in this or the other difficulty, that he is a coward because he has feared certain dangers,
that he is dishonest because he has swerved, that he is a liar because an untrue word has been
traced to him, is to suppose that you know all the coast because one jutting headland has been
defined to you. He who so expresses himself on a man's character is either ignorant of human
nature, or is in search of stones with which to pelt his enemy. "He has lied! He has lied!"
How often in our own political contests do we hear the cry with a note of triumph! And if he
have, how often has he told the truth? And if he have, how many are entitled by pure innocence
in that matter to throw a stone at him? And if he have, do we not know how lies will come to
the tongue of a man without thought of lying? In his stoutest efforts after the truth a man
may so express himself that when afterward he is driven to compare his recent and his former
words, he shall hardly be able to say even to himself that he has not lied. It is by the tenor
of a man's whole life that we must judge him, whether he be a liar or no.

To expect a man to be the same at sixty as he was at thirty, is to suppose that the sun at
noon shall be graced with the colors which adorn its setting. And there are men whose intellects
are set on so fine a pivot that a variation in the breeze of the moment, which coarser minds
shall not feel, will carry them round with a rapidity which baffles the common eye. The man
who saw his duty clearly on this side in the morning shall, before the evening come, recognize
it on the other; and then again, and again, and yet again the vane shall go round. It may be
that an instrument shall be too fine for our daily uses. We do not want a clock to strike the
minutes, or a glass to tell the momentary changes in the atmosphere. It may be found that for
the work of the world, the coarse work--and no work is so coarse, though none is so important,
as that which falls commonly into the hands of statesmen--instruments strong in texture, and
by reason of their rudeness not liable to sudden impressions, may be the best. That it is which
we mean when we declare that a scrupulous man is impractical in politics. But the same man
may, at various periods of his life, and on various days at the same period, be scrupulous
and unscrupulous, impractical and practical, as the circumstances of the occasion may affect
him. At one moment the rule of simple honesty will prevail with him. "Fiat justitia, ruat c[oe]lum."
"Si fractus illabatur orbis Impavidum ferient ruinæ." At another he will see the necessity
of a compromise for the good of the many. He will tell himself that if the best cannot be done,
he must content himself with the next best. He must shake hands with the imperfect, as the
best way of lifting himself up from a bad way toward a better. In obedience to his very conscience
he will temporize, and, finding no other way of achieving good, will do even evil that good
may come of it. "Rem si possis recte; si non, quocunque modo rem." In judging of such a character
as this, a hard and fast line will certainly lead us astray. In judging of Cicero, such a hard
and fast line has too generally been used. He was a man singularly sensitive to all influences.
It must be admitted that he was a vane, turning on a pivot finer than those on which statesmen
have generally been made to work. He had none of the fixed purpose of Cæsar, or the unflinching
principle of Cato. They were men cased in brass, whose feelings nothing could hurt. They suffered
from none of those inward flutterings of the heart, doubtful aspirations, human longings, sharp
sympathies, dreams of something better than this world, fears of something worse, which make
Cicero so like a well-bred, polished gentleman of the present day. It is because he has so
little like a Roman that he is of all the Romans the most attractive.

Still there may be doubt whether, with all the intricacies of his character, his career was
such as to justify a further biography at this distance of time. "What's Hecuba to him, or
he to Hecuba?" asks Hamlet, when he finds himself stirred by the passion thrown into the bare
recital of an old story by an itinerant player. What is Cicero to us of the nineteenth century
that we should care so much for him as to read yet another book? Nevertheless, Hamlet was moved
because the tale was well told. There is matter in the earnestness, the pleasantness, the patriotism,
and the tragedy of the man's life to move a reader still--if the story could only be written
of him as it is felt! The difficulty lies in that, and not in the nature of the story.

The period of Cicero's life was the very turning-point of civilization and government in the
history of the world. At that period of time the world, as we know it, was Rome. Greece had
sunk. The Macedonian Empire had been destroyed. The kingdoms of the East--whether conquered,
or even when conquering, as was Parthia for awhile--were barbaric, outside the circle of cultivation,
and to be brought into it only by the arms and influence of Rome. During Cæsar's career Gaul
was conquered; and Britain, with what was known of Germany, supposed to be partly conquered.
The subjugation of Africa and Spain was all but completed. Letters, too, had been or were being
introduced. Cicero's use of language was so perfect that it seems to us to have been almost
necessarily the result of a long established art of Latin literature. But, in truth, he is
the earliest of the prose writers of his country with whose works we are familiar. Excepting
Varro, who was born but ten years before him, no earlier Latin prose writer has left more than
a name to us; and the one work by which Varro is at all known, the De Re Rustica, was written
after Cicero's death. Lucretius, whose language we regard as almost archaic, so unlike is it
to that of Virgil or Horace, was born eight years after Cicero. In a great degree Cicero formed
the Latin language--or produced that manipulation of it which has made it so graceful in prose,
and so powerful a vehicle of thought. That which he took from any Latin writer he took from
Terence.

And it was then, just then, that there arose in Rome that unpremeditated change in its form
of government which resulted in the self-assumed dictatorship of Cæsar, and the usurpation
of the Empire by Augustus. The old Rome had had kings. Then the name and the power became odious--the
name to all the citizens, no doubt, but the power simply to the nobility, who grudged the supremacy
of one man. The kings were abolished, and an oligarchy was established under the name of a
Republic, with its annual magistrates--at first its two Consuls, then its Prætors and others,
and occasionally a Dictator, as some current event demanded a concentration of temporary power
in a single hand for a certain purpose. The Republic was no republic, as we understand the
word; nor did it ever become so, though their was always going on a perpetual struggle to transfer
the power from the nobles to the people, in which something was always being given or pretended
to be given to the outside class. But so little was as yet understood of liberty that, as each
plebeian made his way up into high place and became one of the magistrates of the State, he
became also one of the oligarchical faction. There was a continued contest, with a certain
amount of good faith on each side, on behalf of the so-called Republic--but still a contest
for power. This became so continued that a foreign war was at times regarded as a blessing,
because it concentrated the energies of the State, which had been split and used by the two
sections--by each against the other. It is probably the case that the invasion of the Gauls
in earlier days, and, later on, the second Punic war, threatening as they were in their incidents
to the power of Rome, provided the Republic with that vitality which kept it so long in existence.
Then came Marius, dominant on one side as a tribune of the people, and Sylla, as aristocrat
on the other, and the civil wars between them, in which, as one prevailed or the other, Rome
was mastered. How Marius died, and Sylla reigned for three bloody, fatal years, is outside
the scope of our purpose--except in this, that Cicero saw Sylla's proscriptions, and made his
first essay into public life hot with anger at the Dictator's tyranny.

It occurs to us as we read the history of Rome, beginning with the early Consuls and going
to the death of Cæsar and of Cicero, and the accomplished despotism of Augustus, that the Republic
could not have been saved by any efforts, and was in truth not worth the saving. We are apt
to think, judging from our own idea of liberty, that there was so much of tyranny, so little
of real freedom in the Roman form of government, that it was not good enough to deserve our
sympathies. But it had been successful. It had made a great people, and had produced a wide-spread
civilization. Roman citizenship was to those outside the one thing the most worthy to be obtained.
That career which led the great Romans up from the state of Quæstor to the Ædile's, Prætor's,
and Consul's chair, and thence to the rich reward of provincial government, was held to be
the highest then open to the ambition of man. The Kings of Greece, and of the East, and of
Africa were supposed to be inferior in their very rank to a Roman Proconsul, and this greatness
was carried on with a semblance of liberty, and was compatible with a belief in the majesty
of the Roman citizen. When Cicero began his work, Consuls, Prætors, Ædiles, and Quæstors were
still chosen by the votes of the citizens. There was bribery, no doubt, and intimidation, and
a resort to those dirty arts of canvassing with which we English have been so familiar; but
in Cicero's time the male free inhabitants of Rome did generally carry the candidates to whom
they attached themselves. The salt of their republican theory was not as yet altogether washed
out from their practice.

The love of absolute liberty as it has been cultivated among modern races did not exist in
the time of Cicero. The idea never seems to have reached even his bosom, human and humanitarian
as were his sympathies, that a man, as man, should be free. Half the inhabitants of Rome were
slaves, and the institution was so grafted in the life of the time that it never occurred to
a Roman that slaves, as a body, should be manumitted. The slaves themselves, though they were
not, as have been the slaves whom we have seen, of a different color and presumed inferior
race, do not themselves seem to have entertained any such idea. They were instigated now and
again to servile wars, but there was no rising in quest of freedom generally. Nor was it repugnant
to the Roman theory of liberty that the people whom they dominated, though not subjected to
slavery, should still be outside the pale of civil freedom. That boon was to be reserved for
the Roman citizen, and for him only. It had become common to admit to citizenship the inhabitants
of other towns and further territories. The glory was kept not altogether for Rome, but for Romans.

Thus, though the government was oligarchical, and the very essence of freedom ignored, there
was a something which stood in the name of liberty, and could endear itself to a real patriot.
With genuine patriotism Cicero loved his country, and beginning his public life as he did at
the close of Sylla's tyranny, he was able to entertain a dream that the old state of things
might be restored and the republican form of government maintained. There should still be two
Consuls in Rome, whose annual election would guard the State against regal dominion. And there
should, at the same time, be such a continuance of power in the hands of the better class--the
"optimates," as he called them--as would preserve the city from democracy and revolution. No
man ever trusted more entirely to popular opinion than Cicero, or was more anxious for aristocratic
authority. But neither in one direction nor the other did he look for personal aggrandizement,
beyond that which might come to him in accordance with the law and in subjection to the old
form of government.

It is because he was in truth patriotic, because his dreams of a Republic were noble dreams,
because he was intent on doing good in public affairs, because he was anxious for the honor
of Rome and of Romans, not because he was or was not a "real power in the State" that his memory
is still worth recording. Added to this was the intellect and the wit and erudition of the
man, which were at any rate supreme. And then, though we can now see that his efforts were
doomed to failure by the nature of the circumstances surrounding him, he was so nearly successful,
so often on the verge of success, that we are exalted by the romance of his story into the
region of personal sympathy. As we are moved by the aspirations and sufferings of a hero in
a tragedy, so are we stirred by the efforts, the fortune, and at last the fall of this man.
There is a picturesqueness about the life of Cicero which is wanting in the stories of Marius
or Sylla, of Pompey, or even of Cæsar--a picturesqueness which is produced in great part by
these very doubtings which have been counted against him as insincerity.

His hands were clean when the hands of all around him were defiled by greed. How infinitely
Cicero must have risen above his time when he could have clean hands! A man in our days will
keep himself clean from leprosy because to be a leper is to be despised by those around him.
Advancing wisdom has taught us that such leprosy is bad, and public opinion coerces us. There
is something too, we must suppose, in the lessons of Christianity. Or it may be that the man
of our day, with all these advantages, does not keep himself clean--that so many go astray
that public opinion shall almost seem to tremble in the balance. Even with us this and that
abomination becomes allowable because so many do it. With the Romans, in the time of Cicero,
greed, feeding itself on usury, rapine, and dishonesty, was so fully the recognized condition
of life that its indulgence entailed no disgrace. But Cicero, with eyes within him which saw
farther than the eyes of other men, perceived the baseness of the stain. It has been said also
of him that he was not altogether free from reproach. It has been suggested that he accepted
payment for his services as an advocate, any such payment being illegal. The accusation is
founded on the knowledge that other advocates allowed themselves to be paid, and on the belief
that Cicero could not have lived as he did without an income from that source. And then there
is a story told of him that, though he did much at a certain period of his life to repress
the usury, and to excite at the same time the enmity of a powerful friend, he might have done
more. As we go on, the stories of these things will be told; but the very nature of the allegations
against him prove how high he soared in honesty above the manners of his day. In discussing
the character of the men, little is thought of the robberies of Sylla, the borrowings of Cæsar,
the money-lending of Brutus, or the accumulated wealth of Crassus. To plunder a province, to
drive usury to the verge of personal slavery, to accept bribes for perjured judgment, to take
illegal fees for services supposed to be gratuitous, was so much the custom of the noble Romans
that we hardly hate his dishonest greed when displayed in its ordinary course. But because
Cicero's honesty was abnormal, we are first surprised, and then, suspecting little deviations,
rise up in wrath against him, because in the midst of Roman profligacy he was not altogether
a Puritan in his money matters.

Cicero is known to us in three great capacities: as a statesman, an advocate, and a man of
letters. As the combination of such pursuits is common in our own days, so also was it in his.
Cæsar added them all to the great work of his life as a soldier. But it was given to Cicero
to take a part in all those political struggles, from the resignation of Sylla to the first
rising of the young Octavius, which were made on behalf of the Republic, and were ended by
its downfall. His political life contains the story of the conversion of Rome from republican
to imperial rule; and Rome was then the world. Could there have been no Augustus, no Nero,
and then no Trajan, all Europe would have been different. Cicero's efforts were put forth to
prevent the coming of an Augustus or a Nero, or the need of a Trajan; and as we read of them
we feel that, had success been possible, he would have succeeded.

As an advocate he was unsurpassed. From him came the feeling--whether it be right or wrong--that
a lawyer, in pleading for his client, should give to that client's cause not only all his learning
and all his wit, but also all his sympathy. To me it is marvellous, and interesting rather
than beautiful, to see how completely Cicero can put off his own identity and assume another's
in any cause, whatever it be, of which he has taken the charge. It must, however, be borne
in mind that in old Rome the distinction between speeches made in political and in civil or
criminal cases was not equally well marked as with us, and also that the reader having the
speeches which have come down to us, whether of one nature or the other, presented to him in
the same volume, is apt to confuse the public and that which may, perhaps, be called the private
work of the man. In the speeches best known to us Cicero was working as a public man for public
objects, and the ardor, I may say the fury, of his energy in the cause which he was advocating
was due to his public aspirations. The orations which have come to us in three sets, some of
them published only but never spoken--those against Verres, against Catiline, and the Philippics
against Antony--were all of this nature, though the first concerned the conduct of a criminal
charge against one individual. Of these I will speak in their turn; but I mention them here
in order that I may, if possible, induce the reader to begin his inquiry into Cicero's character
as an advocate with a just conception of the objects of the man. He wished, no doubt, to shine,
as does the barrister of to-day: he wished to rise; he wished, if you will, to make his fortune,
not by the taking of fees, but by extending himself into higher influence by the authority
of his name. No doubt he undertook this and the other case without reference to the truth or
honesty of the cause, and, when he did so, used all his energy for the bad, as he did for the
good cause. There seems to be special accusation made against him on his head, as though, the
very fact that he undertook his work without pay threw upon him the additional obligation of
undertaking no cause that was not in itself upright. With us the advocate does this notoriously
for his fee. Cicero did it as notoriously in furtherance of some political object of the moment,
or in maintenance of a friendship which was politically important. I say nothing against the
modern practice. This would not be the place for such an argument. Nor do I say that, by rules
of absolute right and wrong, Cicero was right; but he was as right, at any rate, as the modern
barrister. And in reaching the high-minded conditions under which he worked, he had only the
light of his own genius to guide him. When compare the clothing of the savage race with our
own, their beads and woad and straw and fibres with our own petticoats and pantaloons, we acknowledge
the progress of civilization and the growth of machinery. It is not a wonderful thing to us
that an African prince should not be as perfectly dressed as a young man in Piccadilly. But,
when we make a comparison of morals between our own time and a period before Christ, we seem
to forget that more should be expected from us than from those who lived two thousand years ago.

There are some of those pleadings, speeches made by Cicero on behalf of or against an accused
party, from which we may learn more of Roman life than from any other source left to us. Much
we may gather from Terence, much from Horace, something from Juvenal. There is hardly, indeed,
a Latin author from which an attentive reader may not pick up some detail of Roman customs.
Cicero's letters are themselves very prolific. But the pretty things of the poets are not quite
facts, nor are the bitter things of the satirist; and though a man's letters to his friend
may be true, such letters as come to us will have been the products of the greater minds, and
will have come from a small and special class. I fear that the Newgate Calendar of the day
would tell us more of the ways of living then prevailing than the letters of Lady Mary W. Montagu
or of Horace Walpole. From the orations against Verres we learn how the people of a province
lived under the tyranny inflicted upon them; and from those spoken in defence of Sextus Amerinus
and Aulus Cluentius, we gather something of the horrors of Roman life--not in Rome, indeed,
but within the limits of Roman citizenship.

It is, however, as a man of letters that Cicero will be held in the highest esteem. It has
been his good-fortune to have a great part of what he wrote preserved for future ages. His
works have not perished, as have those of his contemporaries, Varro and Hortensius. But this
has been due to two causes, which were independent of Fortune. He himself believed in their
value, and took measures for their protection; and those who lived in his own time, and in
the immediately succeeding ages, entertained the same belief and took the same care. Livy said
that, to write Latin well, the writer should write it like Cicero; and Quintilian, the first
of Latin critics, repeated to us what Livy had asserted.[27] There is a sweetness of language
about Cicero which runs into the very sound; so that passages read aright would, by their very
cadences, charm the ear of listeners ignorant of the language. Eulogy never was so happy as
his. Eulogy, however, is tasteless in comparison with invective. Cicero's abuse is awful. Let
the reader curious in such matters turn to the diatribes against Vatinius, one of Cæsar's creatures,
and to that against the unfortunate Proconsul Piso; or to his attacks on Gabinius, who was
Consul together with Piso in the year of Cicero's banishment. There are wonderful morsels in
the philippics dealing with Antony's private character; but the words which he uses against
Gabinius and Piso beat all that I know elsewhere in the science of invective. Junius could
not approach him; and even Macaulay, though he has, in certain passages, been very bitter,
has not allowed himself the latitude which Roman taste and Roman manners permitted to Cicero.

It may, however, be said that the need of biographical memoirs as to a man of letters is by
no means in proportion to the excellence of the work that he has achieved. Alexander is known
but little to us, because we know so little of the details of his life. Cæsar is much to us,
because we have in truth been made acquainted with him. But Shakspeare, of whose absolute doings
we know almost nothing, would not be nearer or dearer had he even had a Boswell to paint his
daily portrait. The man of letters is, in truth, ever writing his own biography. What there
is in his mind is being declared to the world at large by himself; and if he can so write that
the world at large shall care to read what is written, no other memoir will, perhaps, be necessary.
For myself I have never regretted those details of Shakspeare's life which a Boswell of the
time might have given us. But Cicero's personality as a man of letters seems especially to
require elucidation. His letters lose their chief charm if the character of the man be not
known, and the incidents of his life. His essays on rhetoric--the written lessons which he
has left on the art of oratory--are a running commentary on his own career as an orator. Most
of his speeches require for their understanding a knowledge of the circumstances of his life.
The treatises which we know as his Philosophy--works which have been most wrongly represented
by being grouped under that name--can only be read with advantage by the light of his own experience.
There are two separate classes of his so-called Philosophy, in describing which the word philosophy,
if it be used at all, must be made to bear two different senses. He handles in one set of treatises,
not, I think, with his happiest efforts, the teaching of the old Greek schools. Such are the
Tusculan Disquisitions, the Academics, and the De Finibus. From reading these, without reference
to the idiosyncrasies of the writer, the student would be led to believe that Cicero himself
was a philosopher after that sort. But he was, in truth, the last of men to lend his ears

    "To those budge doctors of the stoic fur."

Cicero was a man thoroughly human in all his strength and all his weakness. To sit apart from
the world and be happy amid scorn, poverty, and obscurity, with a mess of cabbage and a crust,
absolutely contented with abstract virtue, has probably been given to no man; but of none has
it been less within the reach than of Cicero. To him ginger was always hot in the mouth, whether
it was the spice of politics, or of social delight, or of intellectual enterprise. When in
his deep sorrow at the death of his daughter, when for a time the Republic was dead to him,
and public and private life were equally black, he craved employment. Then he took down his
Greek manuscripts and amused himself as best he might by writing this way or that. It was a
matter on which his intellect could work and his energies be employed, though the theory of
his life was in no way concerned in it. Such was one class of his Philosophy. The other consisted
of a code of morals which he created for himself by his own convictions, formed on the world
around him, and which displayed itself in essays, such as those De Officiis--on the duties
of life; De Senectute, De Amicitia--on old age and friendship, and the like, which were not
only intended for use, but are of use to any man or woman who will study them up to this day.
There are others, treatises on law and on government and religion, which have all been lumped
together, for the misguidance of school-boys, under the name of Cicero's Philosophy. But they,
be they of one class or the other, require an understanding of the man's character before they
can be enjoyed.

For these reasons I think that there are incidents in the life, the character, and the work
of Cicero which ought to make his biography interesting. His story is fraught with energy,
with success, with pathos, and with tragedy. And then it is the story of a man human as men
are now. No child of Rome ever better loved his country, but no child of Rome was ever so little
like a Roman. Arms and battles were to him abominable, as they are to us. But arms and battles
were the delight of Romans. He was ridiculed in his own time, and has been ridiculed ever since,
for the alliterating twang of the line in which he declared his feeling:

    "Cedant arma togæ; concedat laurea linguæ."

But the thing said was thoroughly good, and the better because the opinion was addressed to
men among whom the glory of arms was still in ascendant over the achievements of intellectual
enterprise. The greatest men have been those who have stepped out from the mass, and gone beyond
their time--seeing things, with eyesight almost divine, which have hitherto been hidden from
the crowd. Such was Columbus when he made his way across the Western Ocean; such were Galileo
and Bacon; such was Pythagoras, if the ideas we have of him be at all true. Such also was Cicero.
It is not given to the age in which such men live to know them. Could their age even recognize
them, they would not overstep their age as they do. Looking back at him now, we can see how
like a Christian was the man--so like, that in essentials we can hardly see the difference.
He could love another as himself--as nearly as a man may do; and he taught such love as a doctrine.[28]
He believed in the existence of one supreme God.[29] He believed that man would rise again
and live forever in some heaven.[30] I am conscious that I cannot much promote this view of
Cicero's character by quoting isolated passages from his works--words which taken alone may
be interpreted in one sense or another, and which should be read, each with its context, before
their due meaning can be understood. But I may perhaps succeed in explaining to a reader what
it is that I hope to do in the following pages, and why it is that I undertake a work which
must be laborious, and for which many will think that there is no remaining need.

I would not have it thought that, because I have so spoken of Cicero's aspirations and convictions,
I intend to put him forth as a faultless personage in history. He was much too human to be
perfect. Those who love the cold attitude of indifference may sing of Cato as perfect. Cicero
was ambitious, and often unscrupulous in his ambition. He was a loving husband and a loving
father; but at the end of his life he could quarrel with his old wife irrecoverably, and could
idolize his daughter, while he ruined his son by indulgence. He was very great while he spoke
of his country, which he did so often; but he was almost as little when he spoke of himself--which
he did as often. In money-matters he was honest--for the times in which he lived, wonderfully
honest; but in words he was not always equally trustworthy. He could flatter where he did not
love. I admit that it was so, though I will not admit without a protest that the word insincere
should be applied to him as describing his character generally. He was so much more sincere
than others that the protest is needed. If a man stand but five feet eleven inches in his shoes,
shall he be called a pygmy? And yet to declare that he measures full six feet would be untrue.

Cicero was a busybody. Were there anything to do, he wished to do it, let it be what it might.
"Cedant arma togæ." If anything was written on his heart, it was that. Yet he loved the idea
of leading an army, and panted for a military triumph. Letters and literary life were dear
to him, and yet he liked to think that he could live on equal terms with the young bloods of
Rome, such as C[oe]lius. As far as I can judge, he cared nothing for luxurious eating and drinking,
and yet he wished to be reckoned among the gormands and gourmets of his times. He was so little
like the "budge doctors of the stoic fur," of whom it was his delight to write when he had
nothing else to do, that he could not bear any touch of adversity with equanimity. The stoic
requires to be hardened against "the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune." It is his profession
to be indifferent to the "whips and scorns of time." No man was less hardened, or more subject
to suffering from scorns and whips. There be those who think proneness to such suffering is
unmanly, or that the sufferer should at any rate hide his agony. Cicero did not. Whether of
his glory or of his shame, whether of his joy or of his sorrow, whether of his love or of his
hatred, whether of his hopes or of his despair, he spoke openly, as he did of all things. It
has not been the way of heroes, as we read of them; but it is the way with men as we live with
them.

What a man he would have been for London life! How he would have enjoyed his club, picking
up the news of the day from all lips, while he seemed to give it to all ears! How popular he
would have been at the Carlton, and how men would have listened to him while every great or
little crisis was discussed! How supreme he would have sat on the Treasury bench, or how unanswerable,
how fatal, how joyous, when attacking the Government from the opposite seats! How crowded would
have been his rack with invitations to dinner! How delighted would have been the middle-aged
countesses of the time to hold with him mild intellectual flirtations--and the girls of the
period, how proud to get his autograph, how much prouder to have touched the lips of the great
orator with theirs! How the pages of the magazines would have run over with little essays from
his pen! "Have you seen our Cicero's paper on agriculture? That lucky fellow, Editor ----,
got him to do it last month!" "Of course you have read Cicero's article on the soul. The bishops
don't know which way to turn." "So the political article in the Quarterly is Cicero's?" "Of
course you know the art-criticism in the Times this year is Tully's doing?" But that would
probably be a bounce. And then what letters he would write! With the penny-post instead of
travelling messengers at his command, and pen instead of wax and sticks, or perhaps with an
instrument-writer and a private secretary, he would have answered all questions and solved
all difficulties. He would have so abounded with intellectual fertility that men would not
have known whether most to admire his powers of expression or to deprecate his want of reticence.

There will necessarily be much to be said of Cicero's writings in the following pages, as it
is my object to delineate the literary man as well as the politician. In doing this, there
arises a difficulty as to the sequence in which his works should be taken. It will hardly suit
the purpose in view to speak of them all either chronologically or separately as to their subjects.
The speeches and the letters clearly require the former treatment as applying each to the very
moment of time at which they were either spoken or written. His treatises, whether on rhetoric
or on the Greek philosophy, or on government, or on morals, can best be taken apart as belonging
in a very small degree, if at all, to the period in which they were written. I will therefore
endeavor to introduce the orations and letters as the periods may suit, and to treat of his
essays afterward by themselves.

A few words I must say as to the Roman names I have used in my narrative. There is a difficulty
in this respect, because the practice of my boyhood has partially changed itself. Pompey used
to be Pompey without a blush. Now with an erudite English writer he is generally Pompeius.
The denizens of Africa--the "nigger" world--have had, I think, something to do with this. But
with no erudite English writer is Terence Terentius, or Virgil Virgilius, or Horace Horatius.
Were I to speak of Livius, the erudite English listener would think that I alluded to an old
author long prior to our dear historian. And though we now talk of Sulla instead of Sylla,
we hardly venture on Antonius instead of Antony. Considering all this, I have thought it better
to cling to the sounds which have ever been familiar to myself; and as I talk of Virgil and
of Horace and Ovid freely and without fear, so shall I speak also of Pompey and of Antony and
of Catiline. In regard to Sulla, the change has been so complete that I must allow the old
name to have re-established itself altogether.

It has been customary to notify the division of years in the period of which I am about to
write by dating from two different eras, counting down from the building of Rome, A.U.C., or
"anno urbis conditæ," and back from the birth of Christ, which we English mark by the letters
B.C., before Christ. In dealing with Cicero, writers (both French and English) have not uncommonly
added a third mode of dating, assigning his doings or sayings to the year of his age. There
is again a fourth mode, common among the Romans, of indicating the special years by naming
the Consuls, or one of them. "O nata mecum consule Manlio," Horace says, when addressing his
cask of wine. That was, indeed, the official mode of indicating a date, and may probably be
taken as showing how strong the impression in the Roman mind was of the succession of their
Consuls. In the following pages I will use generally the date B.C., which, though perhaps less
simple than the A.U.C., gives to the mind of the modern reader a clearer idea of the juxtaposition
of events. The reader will surely know that Christ was born in the reign of Augustus, and crucified
in that of Tiberius; but he will not perhaps know, without the trouble of some calculation,
how far removed from the period of Christ was the year 648 A.U.C., in which Cicero was born.
To this I will add on the margin the year of Cicero's life. He was nearly sixty-four when he
died. I shall, therefore, call that year his sixty-third year.

CHAPTER II.

HIS EDUCATION.

At Arpinum, on the river Liris, a little stream which has been made to sound sweetly in our
ears by Horace,[31] in a villa residence near the town, Marcus Tullius Cicero was born, 106
years before Christ, on the 3d of January, according to the calendar then in use. Pompey the
Great was born in the same year. Arpinum was a State which had been admitted into Roman citizenship,
lying between Rome and Capua, just within that portion of Italy which was till the other day
called the Kingdom of Naples. The district from which he came is noted, also, as having given
birth to Marius. Cicero was of an equestrian family, which means as much as though we were
to say among ourselves that a man had been born a gentleman and nothing more. An "eques" or
knight in Cicero's time became so, or might become so, by being in possession of a certain
income. The title conferred no nobility. The plebeian, it will be understood, could not become
patrician, though he might become noble--as Cicero did. The patrician must have been born so--must
have sprung from the purple of certain fixed families.[32] Cicero was born a plebeian, of equestrian
rank and became ennobled when he was ranked among the senators because of his service among
the high magistrates of the Republic. As none of his family had served before him, he was "novus
homo," a new man, and therefore not noble till he had achieved nobility himself. A man was
noble who could reckon a Consul, a Prætor, or an Ædile among his ancestors. Such was not the
case with Cicero. As he filled all these offices, his son was noble--as were his son's sons
and grandsons, if such there were.

It was common to Romans to have three names, and our Cicero had three. Marcus, which was similar
in its use to the Christian name of one of us, had been that of his grandfather and father,
and was handed on to his son. This, called the prænomen, was conferred on the child when a
babe with a ceremony not unlike that of our baptism. There was but a limited choice of such
names among the Romans, so that an initial letter will generally declare to those accustomed
to the literature that intended. A. stands for Aulus, P. for Publius, M. generally for Marcus,
C. for Caius, though there was a Cneus also. The nomen, Tullius, was that of the family. Of
this family of Tullius to which Cicero belonged we know no details. Plutarch tells us that
of his father nothing was said but in extremes, some declaring that he had been a fuller, and
others that he had been descended from a prince who had governed the Volsci. We do not see
why he may not have sprung from the prince, and also have been a fuller. There can, however,
be no doubt that he was a gentleman, not uneducated himself, with means and the desire to give
his children the best education which Rome or Greece afforded. The third name or cognomen,
that of Cicero, belonged to a branch of the family of Tullius. This third name had generally
its origin, as do so many of our surnames, in some specialty of place, or trade, or chance
circumstance. It was said that an ancestor had been called Cicero from "cicer," a vetch, because
his nose was marked with the figure of that vegetable. It is more probable that the family
prospered by the growing and sale of vetches. Be that as it may, the name had been well established
before the orator's time. Cicero's mother was one Helvia, of whom we are told that she was
well-born and rich. Cicero himself never alludes to her--as neither, if I remember rightly,
did Horace to his mother, though he speaks so frequently of his father. Helvia's younger son,
Quintus, tells a story of his mother in a letter, which has been, by chance, preserved among
those written by our Cicero. She was in the habit of sealing up the empty wine-jars, as well
as those which were full, so that a jar emptied on the sly by a guzzling slave might be at
once known. This is told in a letter to Tiro, a favorite slave belonging to Marcus, of whom
we shall hear often in the course of our work. As the old lady sealed up the jars, though they
contained no wine, so must Tiro write letters, though he has nothing to say in them. This kind
of argument, taken from the old familiar stories of one's childhood and one's parents, could
be only used to a dear and familiar friend. Such was Tiro, though still a slave, to the two
brothers. Roman life admitted of such friendships, though the slave was so completely the creature
of the master that his life and death were at the master's disposal. This is nearly all that
is known of Cicero's father and mother, or of his old home.

There is, however, sufficient evidence that the father paid great attention to the education
of his sons--if, in the case of Marcus, any evidence were wanting where the result is so manifest
by the work of his life. At a very early age, probably when he was eight--in the year which
produced Julius Cæsar--he was sent to Rome, and there was devoted to studies which from the
first were intended to fit him for public life. Middleton says that the father lived in Rome
with his son, and argues from this that he was a man of large means. But Cicero gives no authority
for this. It is more probable that he lived at the house of one Aculeo, who had married his
mother's sister, and had sons with whom Cicero was educated. Stories are told of his precocious
talents and performances such as we are accustomed to hear of many remarkable men--not unfrequently
from their own mouths. It is said of him that he was intimate with the two great advocates
of the time, Lucius Crassus and Marcus Antonius the orator, the grandfather of Cicero's future
enemy, whom we know as Marc Antony. Cicero speaks of them both as though he had seen them and
talked much of them in his youth. He tells us anecdotes of them;[33] how they were both accustomed
to conceal their knowledge of Greek, fancying that the people in whose eyes they were anxious
to shine would think more of them if they seemed to have contented themselves simply with Roman
words and Roman thoughts. But the intimacy was probably that which a lad now is apt to feel
that he has enjoyed with a great man, if he has seen and heard him, and perhaps been taken
by the hand. He himself gives in very plain language an account of his own studies when he
was seventeen, eighteen, and nineteen. He speaks of the orators of that day[34]: "When I was
above all things anxious to listen to these men, the banishment of Cotta was a great sorrow
to me. I was passionately intent on hearing those who were left, daily writing, reading, and
making notes. Nor was I content only with practice in the art of speaking. In the following
year Varius had to go, condemned by his own enactment; and at this time, in working at the
civil law, I gave much of my time to Quintus Scævola, the son of Publius, who, though he took
no pupils, by explaining points to those who consulted him, gave great assistance to students.
The year after, when Sulla and Pompey were Consuls, I learned what oratory really means by
listening to Publius Sulpicius, who as tribune was daily making harangues. It was then that
Philo, the Chief of the Academy, with other leading philosophers of Athens, had been put to
flight by the war with Mithridates, and had come to Rome. To him I devoted myself entirety,
stirred up by a wonderful appetite for acquiring the Greek philosophy. But in that, though
the variety of the pursuit and its greatness charmed me altogether, yet it seemed to me that
the very essence of judicial conclusion was altogether suppressed. In that year Sulpicius perished,
and in the next, three of our greatest orators, Quintus Catulus, Marcus Antonius, and Caius
Julius, were cruelly killed." This was the time of the civil war between Marius and Sulla.
"In the same year I took lessons from Molo the Rhodian, a great pleader and master of the art."
In the next chapter he tells us that he passed his time also with Diodatus the Stoic, who afterward
lived with him, and died in his house. Here we have an authentic description of the manner
in which Cicero passed his time as a youth at Rome, and one we can reduce probably to absolute
truth by lessening the superlatives. Nothing in it, however, is more remarkable than the confession
that, while his young intellect rejoiced in the subtle argumentation of the Greek philosophers,
his clear common sense quarrelled with their inability to reach any positive conclusion.

But before these days of real study had come upon him he had given himself up to juvenile poetry.
He is said to have written a poem called Pontius Glaucus when he was fourteen years old. This
was no doubt a translation from the Greek, as were most of the poems that he wrote, and many
portions of his prose treatises.[35] Plutarch tells us that the poem was extant in his time,
and declares that, "in process of time, when he had studied this art with greater application,
he was looked upon as the best poet, as well as the greatest orator in Rome." The English translators
of Plutarch tell us that their author was an indifferent judge of Latin poetry, and allege
as proof of this that he praised Cicero as a poet, a praise which he gave "contrary to the
opinion of Juvenal." But Juvenal has given no opinion of Cicero's poetry, having simply quoted
one unfortunate line noted for its egotism, and declared that Cicero would never have had his
head cut off had his philippics been of the same nature.[36] The evidence of Quintus Mucius
Scævola as to Cicero's poetry was perhaps better, as he had the means, at any rate, of reading
it. He believed that the Marius, a poem written by Cicero in praise of his great fellow-townsman,
would live to posterity forever. The story of the old man's prophecy comes to us, no doubt,
from Cicero himself, and is put into the mouth of his brother;[37] but had it been untrue it
would have been contradicted.

The Glaucus was a translation from the Greek done by a boy, probably as a boy's lesson It is
not uncommon that such exercises should be treasured by parents, or perhaps by the performer
himself, and not impossible that they should be made to reappear afterward as original compositions.
Lord Brougham tells us in his autobiography that in his early youth he tried his hand at writing
English essays, and even tales of fiction.[38] "I find one of these," he says, "has survived
the waste-paper basket, and it may amuse my readers to see the sort of composition I was guilty
of at the age of thirteen. My tale was entitled 'Memnon, or Human Wisdom,' and is as follows."
Then we have a fair translation of Voltaire's romance, "Memnon," or "La Sagesse Humaine." The
old lord, when he was collecting his papers for his autobiography, had altogether forgotten
his Voltaire, and thought that he had composed the story! Nothing so absurd as that is told
of Cicero by himself or on his behalf.

It may be as well to say here what there may be to be said as to Cicero's poetry generally.
But little of it remains to us, and by that little it has been admitted that he has not achieved
the name of a great poet; but what he did was too great in extent and too good in its nature
to be passed over altogether without notice. It has been his fate to be rather ridiculed than
read as a maker of verses, and that ridicule has come from two lines which I have already quoted.
The longest piece which we have is from the Phænomena of Aratus, which he translated from the
Greek when he was eighteen years old, and which describes the heavenly bodies. It is known
to us best by the extracts from it given by the author himself in his treatise, De Naturâ Deorum.
It must be owned that it is not pleasant reading. But translated poetry seldom is pleasant,
and could hardly be made so on such a subject by a boy of eighteen. The Marius was written
two years after this, and we have a passage from it, quoted by the author in his De Divinatione,
containing some fine lines. It tells the story of the battle of the eagle and the serpent.
Cicero took it, no doubt (not translated it, however), from the passage in the Iliad, lib,
xii, 200, which has been rendered by Pope with less than his usual fire, and by Lord Derby
with no peculiar charm. Virgil has reproduced the picture with his own peculiar grace of words.
His version has been translated by Dryden, but better, perhaps, by Christopher Pitt. Voltaire
has translated Cicero's lines with great power, and Shelley has reproduced the same idea at
much greater length in the first canto of the Revolt of Islam, taking it probably from Cicero,
but, if not, from Voltaire.[39] I venture to think that, of the nine versions, Cicero's is
the best, and that it is the most melodious piece of Latin poetry we have up to that date.
Twenty-seven years afterward, when Lucretius was probably at work on his great poem, Cicero
wrote an account of his consulship in verse. Of this we have fifty or sixty lines, in which
the author describes the heavenly warnings which were given as to the affairs of his own consular
year. The story is not a happy one, but the lines are harmonious. It is often worth our while
to inquire how poetry has become such as it is, and how the altered and improved phases of
versification have arisen. To trace our melody from Chaucer to Tennyson is matter of interest
to us all. Of Cicero as a poet we may say that he found Latin versification rough, and left
it smooth and musical. Now, as we go on with the orator's life and prose works, we need not
return to his poetry.

The names of many masters have been given to us as those under whom Cicero's education was
carried on. Among others he is supposed, at a very early age, to have been confided to Archias.
Archias was a Greek, born at Antioch, who devoted himself to letters, and, if we are to believe
what Cicero says, when speaking as an advocate, excelled all his rivals of the day. Like many
other educated Greeks, he made his way to Rome, and was received as one of the household of
Lucullus, with whom he travelled, accompanying him even to the wars. He became a citizen of
Rome--so Cicero assures us--and Cicero's tutor. What Cicero owed to him we do not know, but
to Cicero Archias owed immortality. His claim to citizenship was disputed; and Cicero, pleading
on his behalf, made one of those shorter speeches which are perfect in melody, in taste, and
in language. There is a passage in which speaking on behalf of so excellent a professor in
the art, he sings the praises of literature generally. I know no words written in praise of
books more persuasive or more valuable. "Other recreations," he says, "do not belong to all
seasons nor to all ages, nor to all places. These pursuits nourish our youth and delight our
old age. They adorn our prosperity and give a refuge and a solace to our troubles. They charm
us at home, and they are not in our way when we are abroad. They go to bed with us. They travel
about with us. They accompany us as we escape into the country."[40] Archias probably did something
for him in directing his taste, and has been rewarded thus richly. As to other lessons, we
know that he was instructed in law by Scævola, and he has told us that he listened to Crassus
and Antony. At sixteen he went through the ceremony of putting off his boy's dress, the toga
prætexta, and appearing in the toga virilis before the Prætor, thus assuming his right to go
about a man's business. At sixteen the work of education was not finished--no more than it
is with us when a lad at Oxford becomes "of age" at twenty-one; nor was he put beyond his father's
power, the "patria potestas," from which no age availed to liberate a son; but, nevertheless,
it was a very joyful ceremony, and was duly performed by Cicero in the midst of his studies
with Scævola.

At eighteen he joined the army. That doctrine of the division of labor which now, with us,
runs through and dominates all pursuits, had not as yet been made plain to the minds of men
at Rome by the political economists of the day. It was well that a man should know something
of many things--that he should especially, if he intended to be a leader of men, be both soldier
and orator. To rise to be Consul, having first been Quæstor, Ædile, and Prætor, was the path
of glory. It had been the special duty of the Consuls of Rome, since the establishment of consular
government, to lead the armies of the Republic. A portion of the duty devolved upon the Prætors,
as wars became more numerous; and latterly the commanders were attended by Quæstors. The Governors
of the provinces, Proconsuls, or Proprætors with proconsular authority, always combined military
with civil authority. The art of war was, therefore, a necessary part of the education of a
man intended to rise in the service of the State. Cicero, though, in his endeavor to follow
his own tastes, he made a strong effort to keep himself free from such work, and to remain
at Rome instead of being sent abroad as a Governor, had at last to go where fighting was in
some degree necessary, and, in the saddest phase of his life, appeared in Italy with his lictors,
demanding the honors of a triumph. In anticipation of such a career, no doubt under the advice
of his friends, he now went out to see, if not a battle, something, at any rate, of war. It
has already been said how the citizenship of Rome was conferred on some of the small Italian
States around, and not on others. Hence, of course, arose jealousy, which was increased by
the feeling on the part of those excluded that they were called to furnish soldiers to Rome,
as well as those who were included. Then there was formed a combination of Italian cities,
sworn to remedy the injury thus inflicted on them. Their purpose was to fight Rome in order
that they might achieve Roman citizenship; and hence arose the first civil war which distracted
the Empire. Pompeius Strabo, father of Pompey the Great, was then Consul (B.C. 89), and Cicero
was sent out to see the campaign under him. Marius and Sulla, the two Romans who were destined
soon to bathe Rome in blood, had not yet quarrelled, though they had been brought to hate each
other--Marius by jealousy, and Sulla by rivalry. In this war they both served under the Consuls,
and Cicero served with Sulla. We know nothing of his doings in that campaign. There are no
tidings even of a misfortune such as that which happened to Horace when he went out to fight,
and came home from the battle-field "relicta non bene parmula."

Rome trampled on the rebellious cities, and in the end admitted them to citizenship. But probably
the most important, certainly the most notorious, result of the Italian war, was the deep antagonism
of Marius and Sulla. Sulla had made himself conspicuous by his fortune on the occasion, whereas
Marius, who had become the great soldier of the Republic, and had been six times Consul, failed
to gather fresh laurels. Rome was falling into that state of anarchy which was the cause of
all the glory and all the disgrace of Cicero's life, and was open to the dominion of any soldier
whose grasp might be the least scrupulous and the strongest. Marius, after a series of romantic
adventures with which we must not connect ourselves here, was triumphant only just before his
death, while Sulla went off with his army, pillaged Athens, plundered Asia Minor generally,
and made terms with Mithridates, though he did not conquer him. With the purport, no doubt,
of conquering Mithridates, but perhaps with the stronger object of getting him out of Rome,
the army had been intrusted to him, with the consent of the Marian faction.

Then came those three years, when Sulla was in the East and Marius dead, of which Cicero speaks
as a period of peace, in which a student was able to study in Rome. "Triennium fere fuit urbs
sine armis."[41] These must have been the years 86, 85, and 84 before Christ, when Cicero was
twenty-one, twenty-two, and twenty-three years old; and it was this period, in truth, of which
he speaks, and not of earlier years, when he tells us of his studies with Philo, and Molo,
and Diodatus. Precocious as he was in literature, writing one poem--or translating it--when
he was fourteen, and another when he was eighteen, he was by no means in a hurry to commence
the work of his life. He is said also to have written a treatise on military tactics when he
was nineteen; which again, no doubt, means that he had exercised himself by translating such
an essay from the Greek. This, happily, does not remain. But we have four books, Rhetoricorum
ad C. Herennium, and two books De Inventione, attributed to his twentieth and twenty-first
years, which are published with his works, and commence the series. Of all that we have from
him, they are perhaps the least worth reading; but as they are, or were, among his recognized
writings, a word shall be said of them in their proper place.

The success of the education of Cicero probably became a commonplace among Latin school-masters
and Latin writers. In the dialogue De Oratoribus, attributed to Tacitus, the story of it is
given by Messala when he is praising the orators of the earlier age. "We know well," says Messala,
"that book of Cicero which is called Brutus, in the latter part of which he describes to us
the beginning and the progress of his own eloquence, and, as it were, the bringing up on which
it was founded. He tells us that he had learned civil law under Q. Mutius Scævola; that he
had exhausted the realm of philosophy--learning that of the Academy under Philo, and that of
the Stoics under Diodatus; that, not content with these treatises, he had travelled through
Greece and Asia, so as to embrace the whole world of art. And thus it had come about that in
the works of Cicero no knowledge is wanting--neither of music, nor of grammar, nor any other
liberal accomplishment. He understood the subtilty of logic, the purpose of ethics, the effects
and causes of things." Then the speaker goes on to explain what may be expected from study
such as that. "Thus it is, my good friends--thus, that from the acquirement of many arts, and
from a general knowledge of all things, eloquence that is truly admirable is created in its
full force; for the power and capacity of an orator need not be hemmed in, as are those of
other callings, by certain narrow bounds; but that man is the true orator who is able to speak
on all subjects with dignity and grace, so as to persuade those who listen, and to delight
them, in a manner suited to the nature of the subject in hand and the convenience of the time."[42]

We might fancy that we were reading words from Cicero himself! Then the speaker in this imaginary
conversation goes on to tell us how far matters had derogated in his time, pointing out at
the same time that the evils which he deplores had shown themselves even before Cicero, but
had been put down, as far as the law could put them down, by its interference. He is speaking
of those schools of rhetoric in which Greek professors of the art gave lessons for money, which
were evil in their nature, and not, as it appears, efficacious even for the purpose in hand.
"But now," continues Messala, "our very boys are brought into the schools of those lecturers
who are called 'rhetores,' who had sprung up before Cicero, to the displeasure of our ancestors,
as is evident from the fact that when Crassus and Domitius were Censors they were ordered to
shut up their school of impudence, as Cicero calls it. Our boys, as I was going to say, are
taken to these lecture-rooms, in which it is hard to say whether the atmosphere of the place,
or the lads they are thrown among, or the nature of the lessons taught, are the most injurious.
In the place itself there is neither discipline nor respect. All who go there are equally ignorant.
The boys among the boys, the lads among the lads, utter and listen to just what words they
please. Their very exercises are, for the most part, useless. Two kinds are in vogue with these
'rhetores,' called 'suasoriæ' and 'controversiæ,'" tending, we may perhaps say, to persuade
or to refute. "Of these, the 'suasoriæ,' as being the lighter and requiring less of experience,
are given to the little boys, the 'controversiæ' to the bigger lads. But--oh heavens, what
they are--what miserable compositions!" Then he tells us the subjects selected. Rape, incest,
and other horrors are subjected to the lads for their declamation, in order that they may learn
to be orators.

Messala then explains that in those latter days--his days, that is--under the rule of despotic
princes, truly large subjects are not allowed to be discussed in public--confessing, however,
that those large subjects, though they afford fine opportunities to orators, are not beneficial
to the State at large. But it was thus, he says, that Cicero became what he was, who would
not have grown into favor had he defended only P. Quintius and Archias, and had had nothing
to do with Catiline, or Milo, or Verres, or Antony--showing, by-the-way, how great was the
reputation of that speech, Pro Milone, with which we shall have to deal farther on.

The treatise becomes somewhat confused, a portion of it having probably been lost. From whose
mouth the last words are supposed to come is not apparent. It ends with a rhapsody in favor
of imperial government--suitable, indeed, to the time of Domitian, but very unlike Tacitus.
While, however, it praises despotism, it declares that only by the evils which despotism had
quelled could eloquence be maintained. "Our country, indeed, while it was astray in its government;
while it tore itself to pieces by parties and quarrels and discord; while there was no peace
in the Forum, no agreement in the Senate, no moderation on the judgment-seat, no reverence
for letters, no control among the magistrates, boasted, no doubt, a stronger eloquence."

From what we are thus told of Cicero, not what we hear from himself, we are able to form an
idea of the nature of his education. With his mind fixed from his early days on the ambition
of doing something noble with himself, he gave himself up to all kinds of learning. It was
Macaulay, I think, who said of him that the idea of conquering the "omne scibile,"--the understanding
of all things within the reach of human intellect--was before his eyes as it was before those
of Bacon. The special preparation which was, in Cicero's time, employed for students at the
bar is also described in the treatise from which I have quoted--the preparation which is supposed
to have been the very opposite of that afforded by the "rhetores." "Among ourselves, the youth
who was intended to achieve eloquence in the Forum, when already trained at home and exercised
in classical knowledge, was brought by his father or his friends to that orator who might then
be considered to be the leading man in the city. It became his daily work to follow that man,
to accompany him, to be conversant with all his speeches, whether in the courts of law or at
public meetings, so that he might learn, if I might say so, to fight in the very thick of the
throng." It was thus that Cicero studied his art. A few lines farther down, the pseudo-Tacitus
tells us that Crassus, in his nineteenth year, held a brief against Carbo; that Cæsar did so
in his twenty-first against Dolabella; and Pollio, in his twenty-second year, against Cato.[43]
In this precocity Cicero did not imitate Crassus, or show an example to the Romans who followed
him. He was twenty-six when he pleaded his first cause. Sulla had then succeeded in crushing
the Marian faction, and the Sullan proscriptions had taken place, and were nominally over.
Sulla had been declared Dictator, and had proclaimed that there should be no more selections
for death. The Republic was supposed to be restored. "Recuperata republica * * * tum primum
nos ad causas et privatas et publicas adire c[oe]pimus,"[44] "The Republic having been restored,
I then first applied myself to pleadings, both private and public."

Of Cicero's politics at that time we are enabled to form a fair judgment. Marius had been his
townsman; Sulla had been his captain. But the one thing dear to him was the Republic--what
he thought to be the Republic. He was neither Marian nor Sullan. The turbulence in which so
much noble blood had flowed--the "crudelis interitus oratorum," the crushing out of the old
legalized form of government--was abominable to him. It was his hope, no doubt his expectation,
that these old forms should be restored in all their power. There seemed to be more probability
of this--there was more probability of it--on the side of Sulla than the other. On Sulla's
side was Pompey, the then rising man, who, being of the same age with Cicero, had already pushed
himself into prominence, who was surnamed the Great, and who "triumphed" during these very
two years in which Cicero began his career; who through Cicero's whole life was his bugbear,
his stumbling-block, and his mistake. But on that side were the "optimates," the men who, if
they did not lead, ought to lead the Republic; those who, if they were not respectable, ought
to be so; those who, if they did not love their country, ought to love it. If there was a hope,
it was with them. The old state of things--that oligarchy which has been called a Republic--had
made Rome what it was; had produced power, civilization, art, and literature. It had enabled
such a one as Cicero was himself to aspire to lead, though he had been humbly born, and had
come to Rome from an untried provincial family. To him the Republic--as he fancied that it
had been, as he fancied that it might be--was all that was good, all that was gracious, all
that was beneficent. On Sulla's side lay what chance there was of returning to the old ways.
When Sulla was declared Dictator, it was presumed that the Republic was restored. But not on
this account should it be supposed that Cicero regarded the proscriptions of Sulla with favor,
or that he was otherwise than shocked by the wholesale robberies for which the proscription
paved the way. This is a matter with which it will be necessary to deal more fully when we
come in our next chapter to the first speeches made by Cicero; in the very first of which,
as I place them, he attacks the Sullan robberies with an audacity which, when we remember that
Sulla was still in power, rescues, at any rate, in regard to this period of his life, the character
of the orator from that charge of cowardice which has been imputed to him.

It is necessary here, in this chapter devoted to the education of Cicero, to allude to his
two first speeches, because that education was not completed till afterward--so that they may
be regarded as experiments, or trials, as it were, of his force and sufficiency. "Not content
with these teachers"--teachers who had come to Rome from Greece and Asia--"he had travelled
through Greece and Asia, so as to embrace the whole world of art." These words, quoted a few
pages back from the treatise attributed to Tacitus, refer to a passage in the Brutus in which
Cicero makes a statement to that effect. "When I reached Athens,[45] I passed six months with
Antiochus, by far the best known and most erudite of the teachers of the old Academy, and with
him, as my great authority and master, I renewed that study of philosophy which I had never
abandoned--which from my boyhood I had followed with always increasing success. At the same
time I practised oratory laboriously with Demetrius Syrus, also at Athens, a well-known and
by no means incapable master of the art of speaking. After that I wandered over all Asia, and
came across the best orators there, with whom I practised, enjoying their willing assistance."
There is more of it, which need not be repeated verbatim, giving the names of those who aided
him in Asia: Menippus of Stratonice--who, he says, was sweet enough to have belonged himself
to Athens--with Dionysius of Magnesia, with [OE]schilus of Cnidos, and with Xenocles of Adramyttium.
Then at Rhodes he came across his old friend Molo, and applied himself again to the teaching
of his former master. Quintilian explains to us how this was done with a purpose, so that the
young orator, when he had made a first attempt with his half-fledged wings in the courts, might
go back to his masters for awhile[46].

He was twenty-eight when he started on this tour. It has been suggested that he did so in fear
of the resentment of Sulla, with whose favorites and with whose practices he had dealt very
plainly. There is no reason for alleging this, except that Sulla was powerful, that Sulla was
blood-thirsty, and that Sulla must have been offended. This kind of argument is often used.
It is supposed to be natural, or at least probable, that in a certain position a man should
have been a coward or a knave, ungrateful or cruel; and in the presumption thus raised the
accusation is brought against him. "Fearing Sulla's resentment," Plutarch says, "he travelled
into Greece, and gave out that the recovery of his health was the motive." There is no evidence
that such was his reason for travelling; and, as Middleton says in his behalf, it is certain
that he "continued for a year after this in Rome without any apprehension of danger." It is
best to take a man's own account of his own doings and their causes, unless there be ground
for doubting the statement made. It is thus that Cicero himself speaks of his journey: "Now,"
he says, still in his Brutus[47], "as you wish to know what I am--not simply what mark I may
have on my body from my birth, or with what surroundings of childhood I was brought up--I will
include some details which might perhaps seem hardly necessary. At this time I was thin and
weak, my neck being long and narrow--a habit and form of body which is supposed to be adverse
to long life; and those who loved me thought the more of this, because I had taken to speaking
without relaxation, without recreation with all the powers of my voice, and with much muscular
action. When my friends and the doctors desired me to give up speaking, I resolved that, rather
than abandon my career as an orator, I would face any danger. But when it occurred to me that
by lowering my voice, by changing my method of speaking, I might avoid the danger, and at the
same time learn to speak with more elegance, I accepted that as a reason for going into Asia,
so that I might study how to change my mode of elocution. Thus, when I had been two years at
work upon causes, and when my name was already well known in the Forum, I took my departure,
and left Rome."

During the six months that he was at Athens he renewed an early acquaintance with one who was
destined to become the most faithful, and certainly the best known, of his friends. This was
Titus Pomponius, known to the world as that Atticus to whom were addressed something more than
half the large body of letters which were written by Cicero, and which have remained for our
use.[48] He seems to have lived much with Atticus, who was occupied with similar studies, though
with altogether different results. Atticus applied himself to the practices of the Epicurean
school, and did in truth become "Epicuri de grege porcus." To enjoy life, to amass a fortune,
to keep himself free from all turmoils of war or state, to make the best of the times, whether
they were bad or good, without any attempt on his part to mend them--this was the philosophy
of Titus Pomponius, who was called Atticus because Athens, full of art and literature, easy,
unenergetic, and luxurious, was dear to him. To this philosophy, or rather to this theory of
life, Cicero was altogether opposed. He studied in all the schools--among the Platonists, the
Stoics, even with the Epicureans enough to know their dogmas so that he might criticise them--proclaiming
himself to belong to the new Academy, or younger school of Platonists, but in truth drawing
no system of morals or rule of life from any of them. To him, and also to Atticus, no doubt,
these pursuits afforded an intellectual pastime. Atticus found himself able to justify to himself
the bent of his disposition by the name of a philosopher, and therefore became an Epicurean.
Cicero could in no way justify to himself any deviation from the energy of public life, from
its utility, from its ambition, from its loves, or from its hatred; and from the Greek philosophers
whom he named of this or the other school, received only some assistance in that handling of
so-called philosophy which became the chief amusement of his future life. This was well understood
by the Latin authors who wrote of Cicero after his own time. Quintilian, speaking of Cicero
and Brutus as writers of philosophy, says of the latter, "Suffecit ponderi rerum; scias enim
sentire quæ dicit."[49]--"He was equal to the weight of the subject, for you feel that he believes
what he writes." He leaves the inference, of course, that Cicero wrote on such matters only
for the exercise of his ingenuity, as a school-boy writes.

When at Athens, Cicero was initiated into the Eleusinian mysteries--as to which Mr. Collins,
in his little volume on Cicero, in the Ancient Classics for English Readers, says that they
"contained under this veil whatever faith in the Invisible and Eternal rested in the mind of
an enlightened pagan." In this Mr. Collins is fully justified by what Cicero himself has said
although the character thus given to these mysteries is very different from that which was
attributed to them by early Christian writers. They were to those pious but somewhat prejudiced
theologists mysterious and pagan, and therefore horrible.[50] But Cicero declares in his dialogue
with Atticus, De Legibus, written when he was fifty-five years old, in the prime of his intellect,
that "of all the glories and divine gifts which your Athens has produced for the improvement
of men nothing surpasses these mysteries, by which the harshness of our uncivilized life has
been softened, and we have been lifted up to humanity; and as they are called 'initia,'" by
which aspirants were initiated, "so we have in truth found in them the seeds of a new life.
Nor have we received from them only the means of living with satisfaction, but also of dying
with a better hope as to the future."[51]

Of what took place with Cicero and Atticus at their introduction to the Eleusinian mysteries
we know nothing. But it can hardly be that, with such memories running in his mind after thirty
years, expressed in such language to the very friend who had then been his companion, they
should not have been accepted by him as indicating the commencement of some great line of thought.
The two doctrines which seem to mark most clearly the difference between the men whom we regard,
the one as a pagan and the other as a Christian, are the belief in a future life and the duty
of doing well by our neighbors. Here they are both indicated, the former in plain language,
and the latter in that assurance of the softening of the barbarity of uncivilized life, "Quibus
ex agresti immanique vita exculti ad humanitatem et mitigati sumus."

Of the inner life of Cicero at this moment--how he ate, how he drank, with what accompaniment
of slaves he lived, how he was dressed, and how lodged--we know very little; but we are told
enough to be aware that he could not have travelled, as he did in Greece and Asia, without
great expense. His brother Quintus was with him, so that cost, if not double, was greatly increased.
Antiochus, Demetrius Syrus, Molo, Menippus, and the others did not give him their services
for nothing. These were gentlemen of whom we know that they were anxious to carry their wares
to the best market. And then he seems to have been welcomed wherever he went, as though travelling
in some sort "en prince." No doubt he had brought with him the best introductions which Rome
could afford; but even with them a generous allowance must have been necessary, and this must
have come from his father's pocket.

As we go on, a question will arise as to Cicero's income and the sources whence it came. He
asserts of himself that he was never paid for his services at the bar. To receive such payment
was illegal, but was usual. He claims to have kept himself exempt from whatever meanness there
may have been in so receiving such fees--exempt, at any rate, from the fault of having broken
the law. He has not been believed. There is no evidence to convict him of falsehood, but he
has not been believed, because there have not been found palpable sources of income sufficient
for an expenditure so great as that which we know to have been incident to the life he led.
But we do not know what were his father's means. Seeing the nature of the education given to
the lad, of the manner in which his future life was prepared for him from his earliest days,
of the promise made to him from his boyhood of a career in the metropolis if he could make
himself fit for it, of the advantages which costly travel afforded him, I think we have reason
to suppose that the old Cicero was an opulent man, and that the house at Arpinum was no humble
farm, or fuller's poor establishment.

CHAPTER III.

THE CONDITION OF ROME.

It is far from my intention to write a history of Rome during the Ciceronian period. Were I
to attempt such a work, I should have to include the doings of Sertorius in Spain, of Lucullus
and Pompey in the East, Cæsar's ten years in Gaul, and the civil wars from the taking of Marseilles
to the final battles of Thapsus and Munda. With very many of the great events which the period
includes Cicero took but slight concern--so slight that we can hardly fail to be astonished
when we find how little he had to say of them--he who ran through all the offices of the State,
who was the chosen guardian of certain allied cities, who has left to us so large a mass of
correspondence on public subjects, and who was essentially a public man for thirty-four years.
But he was a public man who concerned himself personally with Rome rather than with the Roman
Empire. Home affairs, and not foreign affairs, were dear to him. To Cæsar's great deeds in
Gaul we should have had from him almost no allusion, had not his brother Quintus been among
Cæsar's officers, and his young friend Trebatius been confided by himself to Cæsar's care.
Of Pharsalia we only learn from him that, in utter despair of heart, he allowed himself to
be carried to the war. Of the proconsular governments throughout the Roman Empire we should
not learn much from Cicero, were it not that it has been shown to us by the trial of Verres
how atrocious might be the conduct of a Roman Governor, and by the narratives of Cicero's own
rule in Cilicia, how excellent. The history of the time has been written for modern readers
by Merivale and Mommsen, with great research and truth as to facts, but, as I think with some
strong feeling. Now Mr. Froude has followed with his Cæsar, which might well have been called
Anti-Cicero. All these in lauding, and the two latter in deifying, the successful soldier,
have, I think, dealt hardly with Cicero, attributing to his utterances more than they mean;
doubting his sincerity, but seeing clearly the failure of his political efforts. With the great
facts of the Roman Empire as they gradually formed themselves from the fall of Carthage, when
the Empire began,[52] to the establishment of Augustus, when it was consummated, I do not pretend
to deal, although by far the most momentous of them were crowded into the life of Cicero. But
in order that I may, if possible, show the condition of his mind toward the Republic--that
I may explain what it was that he hoped and why he hoped it--I must go back and relate in a
few words what it was that Marius and Sulla had done for Rome.

Of both these men all the doings with which history is greatly concerned were comprised within
the early years of Cicero's life. Marius, indeed, was nearly fifty years of age when his fellow-townsman
was born, and had become a distinguished soldier, and, though born of humble parents, had pushed
himself to the Consulate. His quarrel with Sulla had probably commenced, springing from jealousy
as to deeds done in the Jugurthine war. But it is not matter of much moment, now that Marius
had proved himself to be a good and hardy soldier, excepting in this, that, by making himself
a soldier in early life, he enabled himself in his latter years to become the master of Rome.

Sulla, too, was born thirty-two years before Cicero--a patrician of the bluest blood--and having
gone, as we say, into public life, and having been elected Quæstor, became a soldier by dint
of office, as a man with us may become head of the Admiralty. As Quæstor he was sent to join
Marius in Africa a few months before Cicero was born. Into his hands, as it happened, not into
those of Marius, Jugurtha was surrendered by his father-in-law, Bocchus, who thought thus to
curry favor with the Romans. Thence came those internecine feuds, in which, some twenty-five
years later, all Rome was lying butchered. The cause of quarrelling between these two men,
the jealousies which grew in the heart of the elder, from the renewed successes of the younger,
are not much to us now; but the condition to which Rome had been brought, when two such men
could scramble for the city, and each cut the throats of the relatives, friends, and presumed
allies of the other, has to be inquired into by those who would understand what Rome had been,
what it was, and what it was necessarily to become.

When Cicero was of an age to begin to think of these things, and had put on the "toga virilis,"
and girt himself with a sword to fight under the father of Pompey for the power of Rome against
the Italian allies who were demanding citizenship, the quarrel was in truth rising to its bitterness.
Marius and Sulla were on the same side in that war. But Marius had then not only been Consul,
but had been six times Consul; and he had beaten the Teutons and the Cimbrians, by whom Romans
had feared that all Italy would be occupied. What was not within the power of such a leader
of soldiers? and what else but a leader of soldiers could prevail when Italy and Rome, but
for such a General, had been at the mercy of barbaric hordes, and when they had been compelled
to make that General six times Consul?

Marius seems to have been no politician. He became a soldier and then a General; and because
he was great as a soldier and General, the affairs of the State fell into his hands with very
little effort. In the old days of Rome military power had been needed for defence, and successful
defence had of course produced aggressive masterhood and increased territory. When Hannibal,
while he was still lingering in Italy, had been circumvented by the appearance of Scipio in
Africa and the Romans had tasted the increased magnificence of external conquest, the desire
for foreign domination became stronger than that of native rule. From that time arms were in
the ascendant rather than policy. Up to that time a Consul had to become a General, because
it was his business to look after the welfare of the State. After that time a man became a
Consul in order that he might be a General. The toga was made to give way to the sword, and
the noise of the Forum to the trumpets. We, looking back now, can see that it must have been
so, and we are prone to fancy that a wise man looking forward then might have read the future.
In the days of Marius there was probably no man so wise. Cæsar was the first to see it. Cicero
would have seen it, but that the idea was so odious to him that he could not acknowledge to
himself that it need be so. His life was one struggle against the coming evil--against the
time in which brute force was to be made to dominate intellect and civilization. His "cedant
arma togæ" was a scream, an impotent scream, against all that Sulla had done or Cæsar was about
to do. The mischief had been effected years before his time, and had gone too far ahead to
be arrested even by his tongue. Only, in considering these things, let us confess that Cicero
saw what was good and what was evil, though he was mistaken in believing that the good was
still within reach.

Marius in his way was a Cæsar--as a soldier, undoubtedly a very efficient Cæsar--having that
great gift of ruling his own appetites which enables those who possess it to conquer the appetites
of others. It may be doubted whether his quickness in stopping and overcoming the two great
hordes from the north, the Teutons and the Cimbrians, was not equal in strategy to anything
that Cæsar accomplished in Gaul. It is probable that Cæsar learned much of his tactics from
studying the man[oe]uvres of Marius. But Marius was only a General. Though he became hot in
Roman politics, audacious and confident, knowing how to use and how to disregard various weapons
of political power as they had been handed down by tradition and law, the "vetoes" and the
auguries, and the official dignities, he used them, or disregarded them, in quest only of power
for himself. He was able to perceive how vain was law in such a period as that in which he
lived; and that, having risen by force of arms, he must by force of arms keep his place or
lose his life. With him, at least, there was no idea of Roman liberty, little probably of Roman
glory, except so far as military glory and military power go together.

Sulla was a man endowed with a much keener insight into the political condition of the world
around him. To make a dash for power, as a dog might do, and keep it in his clutch as a dog
would, was enough for Marius. Sulla could see something of future events. He could understand
that, by reducing men around him to a low level, he could make fast his own power over them,
and that he could best do this by cutting off the heads of all who stood a little higher than
their neighbors. He might thus produce tranquillity, and security to himself and others. Some
glimmer of an idea of an Augustan rule was present to him; and with the view of producing it,
he re-established many of the usages of the Republic, not reproducing the liberty but the forms
of liberty. It seems to have been his idea that a Sullan party might rule the Empire by adherence
to these forms. I doubt if Marius had any fixed idea of government. To get the better of his
enemies, and then to grind them into powder under his feet, to seize rank and power and riches,
and then to enjoy them, to sate his lust with blood and money and women, at last even with
wine, and to feed his revenge by remembering the hard things which he was made to endure during
the period of his overthrow--this seems to have been enough for Marius.[53] With Sulla there
was understanding that the Empire must be ruled, and that the old ways would be best if they
could be made compatible, with the newly-concentrated power.

The immediate effect upon Rome, either from one or from the other, was nearly the same. In
the year 87 B.C. Marius occupied himself in slaughtering the Sullan party--during which, however,
Sulla escaped from Rome to the army of which he was selected as General, and proceeded to Athens
and the East with the object of conquering Mithridates; for, during these personal contests,
the command of this expedition had been the chief bone of contention among them. Marius, who
was by age unfitted, desired to obtain it in order that Sulla might not have it. In the next
year, 86 B.C., Marius died, being then Consul for the seventh time. Sulla was away in the East,
and did not return till 83 B.C. In the interval was that period of peace, fit for study, of
which Cicero afterward spoke. "Triennium fere fuit urbs sine armis."[54] Cicero was then twenty-two
or twenty-three years old, and must well have understood, from his remembrance of the Marian
massacres, what it was to have the city embroiled by arms. It was not that men were fighting,
but that they were simply being killed at the pleasure of the slaughterer. Then Sulla came
back, 83 B.C., when Cicero was twenty-four; and if Marius had scourged the city with rods,
he scourged it with scorpions. It was the city, in truth, that was scourged, and not simply
the hostile faction. Sulla began by proscribing 520 citizens declaring that he had included
in his list all that he remembered, and that those forgotten should be added on another day.
The numbers were gradually raised to 4,700! Nor did this merely mean that those named should
be caught and killed by some miscalled officers of justice.[55] All the public was armed against
the wretched, and any who should protect them were also doomed to death. This, however, might
have been comparatively inefficacious to inflict the amount of punishment intended by Sulla.
Men generally do not specially desire to imbrue their hands in the blood of other men. Unless
strong hatred be at work, the ordinary man, even the ordinary Roman, will hardly rise up and
slaughter another for the sake of the employment. But if lucre be added to blood, then blood
can be made to flow copiously. This was what Sulla did. Not only was the victim's life proscribed,
but his property was proscribed also; and the man who busied himself in carrying out the great
butcher's business assiduously, ardently, and unintermittingly, was rewarded by the property
so obtained. Two talents[56] was to be the fee for mere assassination; but the man who knew
how to carry on well the work of an informer could earn many talents. It was thus that fortunes
were made in the last days of Sulla. It was not only those 520 who were named for killing.
They were but the firstlings of the flock--the few victims selected before the real workmen
understood how valuable a trade proscription and confiscation might be made. Plutarch tells
us how a quiet gentleman walking, as was his custom, in the Forum, one who took no part in
politics, saw his own name one day on the list. He had an Alban villa, and at once knew that
his villa had been his ruin. He had hardly read the list, and had made his exclamation, before
he was slaughtered. Such was the massacre of Sulla, coming with an interval of two or three
years after those of Marius, between which was the blessed time in which Rome was without arms.
In the time of Marius, Cicero was too young, and of no sufficient importance, on account of
his birth or parentage, to fear anything. Nor is it probable that Marius would have turned
against his townsmen. When Sulla's turn came, Cicero, though not absolutely connected with
the Dictator, was, so to say, on his side in politics. In going back even to this period we
may use the terms Liberals and Conservatives for describing the two parties. Marius was for
the people; that is to say, he was opposed to the rule of the oligarchy, dispersed the Senate,
and loved to feel that his own feet were on the necks of the nobility. Of liberty, or rights,
or popular institutions he recked nothing; but not the less was he supposed to be on the people's
side. Sulla, on the other hand, had been born a patrician, and affected to preserve the old
traditions of oligarchic rule; and, indeed, though he took all the power of the State into
his own hands, he did restore, and for a time preserve, these old traditions. It must be presumed
that there was at his heart something of love for old Rome. The proscriptions began toward
the end of the year 82 B.C., and were continued through eight or nine fearful months--up to
the beginning of June, 81 B.C. A day was fixed at which there should be no more slaughtering--no
more slaughtering, that is, without special order in each case, and no more confiscation--except
such as might be judged necessary by those who had not as yet collected their prey from past
victims. Then Sulla, as Dictator, set himself to work to reorganize the old laws. There should
still be Consuls and Prætors, but with restricted powers, lessened almost down to nothing.
It seems hard to gather what was exactly the Dictator's scheme as the future depositary of
power when he should himself have left the scene. He did increase the privileges of the Senate;
but thinking of the Senate of Rome as he must have thought of it, esteeming those old men as
lowly as he must have esteemed them, he could hardly have intended that imperial power should
be maintained by dividing it among them. He certainly contemplated no follower to himself,
no heir to his power, as Cæsar did. When he had been practically Dictator about three years--though
he did not continue the use of the objectionable name--he resigned his rule and walked down,
as it were, from his throne into private life. I know nothing in history more remarkable than
Sulla's resignation; and yet the writers who have dealt with his name give no explanation of
it. Plutarch, his biographer, expresses wonder that he should have been willing to descend
to private life, and that he who made so many enemies should have been able to do so with security.
Cicero says nothing of it. He had probably left Rome before it occurred, and did not return
till after Sulla's death. It seems to have been accepted as being in no especial way remarkable.[57]
At his own demand, the plenary power of Dictator had been given to him--power to do all as
he liked, without reference either to the Senate or to the people, and with an added proviso
that he should keep it as long as he thought fit, and lay it down when it pleased him. He did
lay it down, flattering himself, probably, that, as he had done his work, he would walk out
from his dictatorship like some Camillus of old. There had been no Dictator in Rome for more
than a century and a quarter--not since the time of Hannibal's great victories; and the old
dictatorships lasted but for a few months or weeks, after which the Dictator, having accomplished
the special task, threw up his office. Sulla now affected to do the same; and Rome, after the
interval of three years, accepted the resignation in the old spirit. It was natural to them,
though only by tradition, that a Dictator should resign--so natural that it required no special
wonder. The salt of the Roman Constitution was gone, but the remembrance of the savor of it
was still sweet to the minds of the Romans.

It seems certain that no attempt was made to injure Sulla when he ceased to be nominally at
the head of the army, but it is probable that he did not so completely divest himself of power
as to be without protection. In the year after his abdication he died, at the age of sixty-one,
apparently strong as regards general health, but, if Plutarch's story be true, affected with
a terrible cutaneous disease. Modern writers have spoken of Sulla as though they would fain
have praised him if they dared, because, in spite of his demoniac cruelty, he recognized the
expediency of bringing the affairs of the Republic again into order. Middleton calls him the
"only man in history in whom the odium of the most barbarous cruelties was extinguished by
the glory of his great acts." Horrid as the proscriptions and confiscations were to Cicero--and
his opinion of them was expressed plainly enough when it was dangerous to express them[59]--still
it was apparent to him that the cause of order (what we may call the best chance for the Republic)
lay with the Senate and with the old traditions and laws of Rome, in the re-establishment of
which Sulla had employed himself. Of these institutions Mommsen speaks with a disdain which
we now cannot but feel to be justified. But the German historian seems to err somewhat in this,
as have also some modern English historians, that they have not sufficiently seen that the
men of the day had not the means of knowing all that they, the historians, know. Sulla and
his Senate thought that by massacring the Marian faction they had restored everything to an
equilibrium. Sulla himself seems to have believed that when the thing was accomplished Rome
would go on, and grow in power and prosperity as she had grown, without other reforms than
those which he had initiated. There can be no doubt that many of the best in Rome--the best
in morals, the best in patriotism, and the best in erudition--did think that, with the old
forms, the old virtue would come back. Pompey thought so, and Cicero. Cato thought so, and
Brutus. Cæsar, when he came to think about it, thought the reverse. But even now to us, looking
back with so many things made clear to us, with all the convictions which prolonged success
produces, it is doubtful whether some other milder change--some such change as Cicero would
have advocated--might not have prevented the tyranny of Augustus, the mysteries of Tiberius,
the freaks of Caligula, the folly of Claudius, and the madness of Nero.

It is an uphill task, that of advocating the cause of a man who has failed. The Cæsars of the
world are they who make interesting stories. That Cicero failed in the great purpose of his
life has to be acknowledged. He had studied the history of his country, and was aware that
hitherto the world had produced nothing so great as Roman power; and he knew that Rome had
produced true patriotism. Her Consuls, her Censors, her Tribunes, and her Generals had, as
a rule, been true to Rome, serving their country, at any rate till of late years, rather than
themselves. And he believed that liberty had existed in Rome, though nowhere else. It would
be well if we could realize the idea of liberty which Cicero entertained. Liberty was very
dear to him--dear to him not only as enjoying it himself, but as a privilege for the enjoyment
of others. But it was only the liberty of a few. Half the population of the Roman cities were
slaves, and in Cicero's time the freedom of the city, which he regarded as necessary to liberty,
belonged only to a small proportion of the population of Italy. It was the liberty of a small
privileged class for which he was anxious. That a Sicilian should be free under a Roman Proconsul,
as a Roman citizen was entitled to be, was abhorrent to his doctrine. The idea of cosmopolitan
freedom--an idea which exists with us, but is not common to very many even now--had not as
yet been born: that care for freedom which springs from a desire to do to others as we would
that they should do to us. It required Christ to father that idea; and Cicero, though he was
nearer to Christianity than any who had yet existed, had not reached it. But this liberty,
though it was but of a few, was so dear to him that he spent his life in an endeavor to preserve
it. The kings had been expelled from Rome because they had trampled on liberty. Then came the
Republic, which we know to have been at its best no more than an oligarchy; but still it was
founded on the idea that everything should be done by the votes of the free people. For many
years everything was done by the votes of the free people. Under what inducements they had
voted is another question. Clients were subject to their patrons, and voted as they were told.
We have heard of that even in England, where many of us still think that such a way of voting
is far from objectionable. Perhaps compulsion was sometimes used--a sort of "rattening" by
which large bodies were driven to the poll to carry this or the other measure. Simple eloquence
prevailed with some, and with others flattery. Then corruption became rampant, as was natural,
the rich buying the votes of the poor; and votes were bought in various ways--by cheap food
as well as by money, by lavish expenditure in games, by promises of land, and other means of
bribery more or less overt. This was bad, of course. Every freeman should have given a vote
according to his conscience. But in what country--the millennium not having arrived in any--has
this been achieved? Though voting in England has not always been pure, we have not wished to
do away with the votes of freemen and to submit everything to personal rule. Nor did Cicero.

He knew that much was bad, and had himself seen many things that were very evil. He had lived
through the dominations of Marius and Sulla, and had seen the old practices of Roman government
brought down to the pretence of traditional forms. But still, so he thought, there was life
left in the old forms, if they could be revivified by patriotism, labor, and intelligence.
It was the best that he could imagine for the State--infinitely better than the chance of falling
into the bloody hands of one Marius and one Sulla after another. Mommsen tells us that nothing
could be more rotten than the condition of oligarchical government into which Rome had fallen;
and we are inclined to agree with Mommsen, because we have seen what followed. But that Cicero,
living and seeing it all as a present spectator, should have hoped better things, should not,
I think, cause us to doubt either Cicero's wisdom or his patriotism. I cannot but think that,
had I been a Roman of those days, I should have preferred Cicero, with his memories of the
past, to Cæsar, with his ambition for the future.

Looking back from our standing-point of to-day, we know how great Rome was--infinitely greater,
as far as power is concerned, than anything else which the world has produced. It came to pass
that "Urbis et orbis" was not a false boast. Gradually growing from the little nest of robbers
established on the banks of the Tiber, the people of Rome learned how to spread their arms
over all the known world, and to conquer and rule, while they drew to themselves all that the
ingenuity and industry of other people had produced. To do this, there must have been not only
courage and persistence, but intelligence, patriotism, and superior excellence in that art
of combination of which government consists. But yet, when we look back, it is hard to say
when were the palmy days of Rome. When did those virtues shine by which her power was founded?
When was that wisdom best exhibited from which came her capacity for ruling? Not in the time
of her early kings, whose mythic virtues, if they existed, were concerned but in small matters;
for the Rome of the kings claimed a jurisdiction extending as yet but a few miles from the
city. And from the time of their expulsion, Rome, though she was rising in power, was rising
slowly, and through such difficulties that the reader of history, did he not know the future,
would think from time to time that the day of her destruction had come upon her. Not when Brennus
was at Rome with his Gauls, a hundred and twenty-five years after the expulsion of the kings,
could Rome be said to have been great; nor when, fifty or sixty years afterward, the Roman
army--the only army which Rome then possessed--had to lay down its arms in the Caudine Forks
and pass under the Samnite yoke. Then, when the Samnite wars were ended, and Rome was mistress
in Italy--mistress, after all, of no more than Southern Italy--the Punic wars began. It could
hardly have been during that long contest with Carthage, which was carried on for nearly fifty
years, that the palmy days of Rome were at their best. Hannibal seems always to be the master.
Trebia, Thrasymene and Cannæ, year after year, threaten complete destruction to the State.
Then comes the great Scipio; and no doubt, if we must mark an era of Roman greatness, it would
be that of the battle of Zama and the submission of Carthage, 201 years before Christ. But
with Scipio there springs up the idea of personal ambition; and in the Macedonian and Greek
wars that follow, though the arm of Rome is becoming stronger every day, and her shoulders
broader, there is already the glamour of her decline in virtue. Her dealings with Antiochus,
with Pyrrhus, and with the Achæans, though successful, were hardly glorious. Then came the
two Gracchi, and the reader begins to doubt whether the glory of the Republic is not already
over. They demanded impossible reforms, by means as illegal as they were impossible, and were
both killed in popular riots. The war with Jugurtha followed, in which the Romans were for
years unsuccessful, and during which German hordes from the north rushed into Gaul and destroyed
an army of 80,000 Romans. This brings us to Marius and to Sulla, of whom we have already spoken,
and to that period of Roman politics which the German historian describes as being open to
no judgment "save one of inexorable and remorseless condemnation."

But, in truth, the history of every people and every nation will be subject to the same criticism,
if it be regarded with the same severity. In all that man has done as yet in the way of government,
the seeds of decay are apparent when looked back upon from an age in advance. The period of
Queen Elizabeth was very great to us; yet by what dangers were we enveloped in her days! But
for a storm at sea, we might have been subjected to Spain. By what a system of falsehood and
petty tyrannies were we governed through the reigns of James I. and Charles I.! What periods
of rottenness and danger there have been since! How little glorious was the reign of Charles
II.! how full of danger that of William! how mean those of the four Georges, with the dishonesty
of ministers such as Walpole and Newcastle! And to-day, are there not many who are telling
us that we are losing the liberties which our forefathers got for us, and that no judgment
can be passed on us "save one of inexorable and remorseless condemnation?" We are a great nation,
and the present threatenings are probably vain. Nevertheless, the seeds of decay are no doubt
inherent in our policies and our practices--so manifestly inherent that future historians will
pronounce upon them with certainty.

But Cicero, not having the advantage of distance, having simply in his mind the knowledge of
the greatness which had been achieved, and in his heart a true love for the country which had
achieved it, and which was his own, encouraged himself to think that the good might be recovered
and the bad eliminated. Marius and Sulla--Pompey also, toward the end of his career, if I can
read his character rightly--Cæsar, and of course Augustus, being all destitute of scruple,
strove to acquire, each for himself, the power which the weak hands of the Senate were unable
to grasp. However much, or however little, the country of itself might have been to any of
them, it seemed good to him, whether for the country's sake or for his own, that the rule should
be in his own hands. Each had the opportunity, and each used it, or tried to use it. With Cicero
there is always present the longing to restore the power to the old constitutional possessors
of it. So much is admitted, even by his bitter enemies; and I am sometimes at a loss whether
to wonder most that a man of letters, dead two thousand years ago, should have enemies so bitter
or a friend so keenly in earnest about him as I am. Cicero was aware quite as well as any who
lived then, if he did not see the matter clearer even than any others, that there was much
that was rotten in the State. Men who had been murderers on behalf of Marius, and then others
who had murdered on behalf of Sulla--among whom that Catiline, of whom we have to speak presently,
had been one--were not apt to settle themselves down as quiet citizens. The laws had been set
aside. Even the law courts had been closed. Sulla had been law, and the closets of his favorites
had been the law courts. Senators had been cowed and obedient. The Tribunes had only been mock
Tribunes. Rome, when Cicero began his public life, was still trembling. The Consuls of the
day were men chosen at Sulla's command. The army was Sulla's army. The courts were now again
opened by Sulla's permission. The day fixed by Sulla when murderers might no longer murder--or,
at any rate, should not be paid for murdering--had arrived. There was not, one would say, much
hope for good things. But Sulla had reproduced the signs of order, and the best hope lay in
that direction. Consuls, Prætors, Quæstors, Ædiles, even Tribunes, were still there. Perhaps
it might be given to him, to Cicero, to strengthen the hands of such officers. At any rate,
there was no better course open to him by which he could serve his country.

The heaviest accusation brought against Cicero charges him with being insincere to the various
men with whom he was brought in contact in carrying out the purpose of his life, and he has
also been accused of having changed his purpose. It has been alleged that, having begun life
as a democrat, he went over to the aristocracy as soon as he had secured his high office of
State. As we go on, it will be my object to show that he was altogether sincere in his purpose,
that he never changed his political idea, and that, in these deviations as to men and as to
means, whether, for instance, he was ready to serve Cæsar or to oppose him, he was guided,
even in the insincerity of his utterances, by the sincerity of his purpose. I think that I
can remember, even in Great Britain, even in the days of Queen Victoria, men sitting check
by jowl on the same Treasury bench who have been very bitter to each other with anything but
friendly words. With us fidelity in friendship is, happily, a virtue. In Rome expediency governed
everything. All I claim for Cicero is, that he was more sincere than others around him.

[Sidenote: B.C. 80, ætat. 27.]

We now come to the beginning of the work of Cicero's life. This at first consisted in his employment
as an advocate, from which he gradually rose into public or political occupation, as so often
happens with a successful barrister in our time. We do not know with absolute certainty even
in what year Cicero began his pleadings, or in what cause. It may probably have been in 81
B.C., when he was twenty-five, or in his twenty-sixth year. Of the pleadings of which we know
the particulars, that in the defence of Sextus Roscius Amerinus, which took place undoubtedly
in the year 80 B.C., ætat twenty-seven, was probably the earliest. As to that, we have his
speech nearly entire, as we have also one for Publius Quintius, which has generally been printed
first among the orator's works. It has, however, I think, been made clear that that spoken
for Sextus Roscius came before it. It is certain that there had been others before either of
them. In that for Sextus he says that he had never spoken before in any public cause,[61] such
as was the accusation in which he was now engaged, from which the inference has to be made
that he had been engaged in private causes; and in that for Quintius he declares that there
was wanting to him in that matter an aid which he had been accustomed to enjoy in others.[62]
No doubt he had tried his 'prentice hand in cases of less importance. That of these two the
defence of Sextus Roscius came first, is also to be found in his own words. More than once,
in pleading for Quintius, he speaks of the proscriptions and confiscations of Sulla as evils
then some time past. These were brought nominally to a close in June, 81; but it has been supposed
by those who have placed this oration first that it was spoken in that very year. This seems
to have been impossible. "I am most unwilling," says he, "to call to mind that subject, the
very memory of which should be wiped out from our thoughts."[63] When the tone of the two speeches
is compared, it will become evident that that for Sextus Roscius was spoken the first. It was,
as I have said, spoken in his twenty-seventh year, B.C. 80, the year after the proscription
lists had been closed, when Sulla was still Dictator, and when the sales of confiscated goods,
though no longer legal, were still carried on under assumed authority. As to such violation
of Sulla's own enactment, Cicero excuses the Dictator in this very speech, likening him to
Great Jove the Thunderer. Even "Jupiter Optimus Maximus," as he is whose nod the heavens, the
earth, and seas obey--even he cannot so look after his numerous affairs but that the winds
and the storms will be too strong sometimes, or the heat too great, or the cold too bitter.
If so, how can we wonder that Sulla, who has to rule the State, to govern, in fact, the world,
should not be able himself to see to everything? Jove probably found it convenient not to see
many things. Such must certainly have been the case with Sulla.

I will venture, as other biographers have done before, to tell the story of Sextus Roscius
of Ameria at some length, because it is in itself a tale of powerful romance, mysterious, grim,
betraying guilt of the deepest dye, misery most profound, and audacity unparalleled; because,
in a word, it is as interesting as any novel that modern fiction has produced; and also, I
will tell it, because it lets in a flood of light upon the condition of Rome at the time. Our
hair is made to stand on end when we remember that men had to pick their steps in such a State
as this, and to live if it were possible, and, if not, then to be ready to die. We come in
upon the fag-end of the proscription, and see, not the bloody wreath of Sulla as he triumphed
on his Marian foes, not the cruel persecution of the ruler determined to establish his order
of things by slaughtering every foe, but the necessary accompaniments of such ruthless deeds--those
attendant villanies for which the Jupiter Optimus Maximus of the day had neither ears nor eyes.
If in history we can ever get a glimpse at the real life of the people, it is always more interesting
than any account of the great facts, however grand.

The Kalends of June had been fixed by Sulla as the day on which the slaughter legalized by
the proscriptions should cease. In the September following an old gentleman named Sextus Roscius
was murdered in the streets of Rome as he was going home from supper one night, attended by
two slaves. By whom he was murdered, probably more than one or two knew then, but nobody knows
now. He was a man of reputation, well acquainted with the Metelluses and Messalas of the day,
and passing rich. His name had been down on no proscription list, for he had been a friend
of Sulla's friends. He was supposed, when he was murdered, to be worth about six million of
sesterces, or something between fifty and sixty thousand pounds of our money. Though there
was at that time much money in Rome, this amounted to wealth; and though we cannot say who
murdered the man, we may feel sure that he was murdered for his money.

Immediately on his death his chattels were seized and sold--or divided, probably, without being
sold--including his slaves, in whom, as with every rich Roman, much of his wealth was invested;
and his landed estates--his farms, of which he had many--were also divided. As to the actual
way in which this was done, we are left much in the dark. Had the name of Sextus Roscius been
on one of the lists, even though the list would then have been out of date, we could have understood
that it should have been so. Jupiter Optimus Maximus could not see everything, and great advantages
were taken. We must only suppose that things were so much out of order that they who had been
accustomed to seize upon the goods of the proscribed were able to stretch their hands so as
to grasp almost anything that came in their way. They could no longer procure a rich man's
name to be put down on the list, but they could pretend that it had been put down. At any rate,
certain persons seized and divided the chattels of the murdered man as though he had been proscribed.

Old Roscius, when he was killed, had one son, of whom we are told that he lived always in the
country at Ameria, looking after his father's farms, never visiting the capital, which was
distant from Ameria something under fifty miles; a rough, uncouth, and probably honest man--one,
at any rate, to whom the ways of the city were unknown, and who must have been but partially
acquainted with the doings of the time.[64] As we read the story, we feel that very much depends
on the character of this man, and we are aware that our only description of him comes from
his own advocate. Cicero would probably say much which, though beyond the truth, could not
be absolutely refuted, but would state as facts nothing that was absolutely false. Cicero describes
him as a middle-aged man, who never left his farm, doing his duty well by his father, as whose
agent he acted on the land--a simple, unambitious, ignorant man, to whom one's sympathies are
due rather than our antipathy, because of his devotion to agriculture. He was now accused of
having murdered his father. The accusation was conducted by one Erucius, who in his opening
speech--the speech made before that by Cicero--had evidently spoken ill of rural employments.
Then Cicero reminds him, and the judges, and the Court how greatly agriculture had been honored
in the old days, when Consuls were taken from the ploughs. The imagination, however, of the
reader pictures to itself a man who could hardly have been a Consul at any time--one silent,
lonely, uncouth, and altogether separate from the pleasant intercourses of life. Erucius had
declared of him that he never took part in any festivity. Cicero uses this to show that he
was not likely to have been tempted by luxury to violence. Old Roscius had had two sons, of
whom he had kept one with him in Rome--the one, probably, whose society had been dearest to
him. He, however, had died, and our Roscius--Sextus Roscius Amerinus, as he came to be called
when he was made famous by the murder--was left on one of the farms down in the country. The
accusation would probably not have been made, had he not been known to be a man sullen, silent,
rough, and unpopular--as to whom such a murder might be supposed to be credible.

Why should any accusation have been made unless there was clear evidence as to guilt? That
is the first question which presents itself. This son received no benefit from his father's
death. He had in fact been absolutely beggared by it--had lost the farm, the farming utensils,
every slave in the place, all of which had belonged to his father, and not to himself. They
had been taken, and divided; taken by persons called "Sectores," informers or sequestrators,
who took possession of and sold--or did not sell--confiscated goods. Such men in this case
had pounced down upon the goods of the murdered man at once and swallowed them all up, not
leaving an acre or a slave to our Roscius. Cicero tells us who divided the spoil among them.
There were two other Rosciuses, distant relatives, probably, both named Titus; Titus Roscius
Magnus, who sojourned in Rome, and who seems to have exercised the trade of informer and assassin
during the proscriptions, and Titus Roscius Capito, who, when at home, lived at Ameria, but
of whom Cicero tells us that he had become an apt pupil of the other during this affair. They
had got large shares, but they shared also with one Chrysogonus, the freedman and favorite
of Sulla, who did the dirty work for Jupiter Optimus Maximus when Jupiter Optimus Maximus had
not time to do it himself. We presume that Chrysogonus had the greater part of the plunder.
As to Capito, the apt pupil, we are told again and again that he got three farms for himself.

Again, it is necessary to say that all these facts come from Cicero, who, in accordance with
the authorized practice of barristers, would scruple at saying nothing which he found in his
instructions. How instructions were conveyed to an advocate in those days we do not quite know.
There was no system of attorneys. But the story was probably made out for the "patronus" or
advocate by an underling, and in some way prepared for him. That which was thus prepared he
exaggerated as the case might seem to require. It has to be understood of Cicero that he possessed
great art and, no doubt, great audacity in such exaggeration; in regard to which we should
certainly not bear very heavily upon him now, unless we are prepared to bear more heavily upon
those who do the same thing in our own enlightened days. But Cicero, even as a young man, knew
his business much too well to put forward statements which could be disproved. The accusation
came first; then the speech in defence; after that the evidence, which was offered only on
the side of the accuser, and which was subject to cross-examination. Cicero would have no opportunity
of producing evidence. He was thus exempted from the necessity of proving his statements, but
was subject to have them all disproved. I think we may take it for granted that the property
of the murdered man was divided as he tells us.

If that was so, why should any accusation have been made? Our Sextus seems to have been too
much crushed by the dangers of his position to have attempted to get back any part of his father's
wealth. He had betaken himself to the protection of a certain noble lady, one Metella, whose
family had been his father's friends, and by her and her friends the defence was no doubt managed.
"You have my farms," he is made to say by his advocate; "I live on the charity of another.
I abandon everything because I am placid by nature, and because it must be so. My house, which
is closed to me, is open to you: I endure it. You have possessed yourself of my whole establishment;
I have not one single slave. I suffer all this, and feel that I must suffer it. What do you
want more? Why do you persecute me further? In what do you think that I shall hurt you? How
do I interfere with you? In what do I oppose you? Is it your wish to kill a man for the sake
of plunder? You have your plunder. If for the sake of hatred, what hatred can you feel against
him of whose land you have taken possession before you had even known him?"[65] Of all this,
which is the advocate's appeal to pity, we may believe as little as we please. Cicero is addressing
the judge, and desires only an acquittal. But the argument shows that no overt act in quest
of restitution had as yet been made. Nevertheless, Chrysogonus feared such action, and had
arranged with the two Tituses that something should be done to prevent it. What are we to think
of the condition of a city in which not only could a man be murdered for his wealth walking
home from supper--that, indeed, might happen in London if there existed the means of getting
at the man's money when the man was dead--but in which such a plot could be concerted in order
that the robbery might be consummated? "We have murdered the man and taken his money under
the false plea that his goods had been confiscated. Friends, we find, are interfering--these
Metellas and Metelluses, probably. There is a son who is the natural heir. Let us say that
he killed his own father. The courts of law, which have only just been reopened since the dear
days of proscription, disorder, and confiscation, will hardly yet be alert enough to acquit
a man in opposition to the Dictator's favorite. Let us get him convicted, and, as a parricide,
sewed up alive in a bag and thrown into the river"--as some of us have perhaps seen cats drowned,
for such was the punishment--"and then he at least will not disturb us." It must have thus
been that the plot was arranged.

It was a plot so foul that nothing could be fouler; but not the less was it carried out persistently
with the knowledge and the assistance of many. Erucius, the accuser, who seems to have been
put forward on the part of Chrysogonus, asserted that the man had caused his father to be murdered
because of hatred. The father was going to disinherit the son, and therefore the son murdered
the father. In this there might have been some probability, had there been any evidence of
such an intention on the father's part. But there was none. Cicero declares that the father
had never thought of disinheriting his son. There had been no quarrel, no hatred. This had
been assumed as a reason--falsely. There was in fact no cause for such a deed; nor was it possible
that the son should have done it. The father was killed in Rome when, as was evident, the son
was fifty miles off. He never left his farm. Erucius, the accuser, had said, and had said truly,
that Rome was full of murderers.[66] But who was the most likely to have employed such a person:
this rough husbandman, who had no intercourse with Rome, who knew no one there, who knew little
of Roman ways, who had nothing to get by the murder when committed, or they who had long been
concerned with murderers, who knew Rome, and who were now found to have the property in their
hands?

The two slaves who had been with the old man when he was killed, surely they might tell something?
Here there comes out incidentally the fact that slaves when they were examined as witnesses
were tortured, quite as a matter of course, so that their evidence might be extracted. This
is spoken of with no horror by Cicero, nor, as far as I can remember, by other Roman writers.
It was regarded as an established rule of life that a slave, if brought into a court of law,
should be made to tell the truth by such appliances. This was so common that one is tempted
to hope, and almost to suppose that the "question" was not ordinarily administered with circumstances
of extreme cruelty. We hear, indeed, of slaves having their liberty given them in order that,
being free, they may not be forced by torture to tell the truth;[67] but had the cruelty been
of the nature described by Scott in "Old Mortality," when the poor preacher's limbs were mangled,
I think we should have heard more of it. Nor was the torture always applied, but only when
the expected evidence was not otherwise forth-coming. Cicero explains, in the little dialogue
given below, how the thing was carried on.[68] "You had better tell the truth now, my friend:
Was it so and so?" The slave knows that, if he says it was so, there is the cross for him,
or the "little horse;" but that, if he will say the contrary, he will save his joints from
racking. And yet the evidence went for what it was worth.

In this case of Roscius there had certainly been two slaves present; but Cicero, who, as counsel
for the defence, could call no witnesses, had not the power to bring them into court; nor could
slaves have been made to give evidence against their masters. These slaves, who had belonged
to the murdered man, were now the property either of Chrysogonus or of the two Tituses. There
was no getting at their evidence but by permission of their masters, and this was withheld.
Cicero demands that they shall be produced, knowing that the demand will have no effect. "The
man here," he says, pointing to the accused, "asks for it, prays for it. What will you do in
this case? Why do you refuse?"[69]

By this time the reader is brought to feel that the accused person cannot possibly have been
guilty; and if the reader, how much more the hearer? Then Cicero goes on to show who in truth
were guilty. "Doubt now if you can, judges, by whom Roscius was killed: whether by him who,
by his father's death, is plunged into poverty and trouble--who is forbidden even to investigate
the truth--or by those who are afraid of real evidence, who themselves possess the plunder,
who live in the midst of murder, and on the proceeds of murder."[70]

Then he addresses one of the Tituses, Titus Magnus, who seems to have been sitting in the court,
and who is rebuked for his impudence in doing so: "Who can doubt who was the murderer--you
who have got all the plunder, or this man who has lost everything? But if it be added to this
that you were a pauper before--that you have been known as a greedy fellow, as a dare-devil,
as the avowed enemy of him who has been killed--then need one ask what has brought you to do
such a deed as this?"[71]

He next tells what took place, as far as it was known, immediately after the murder. The man
had been killed coming home from supper, in September, after it was dark, say at eight or nine
o'clock, and the fact was known in Ameria before dawn. Travelling was not then very quick;
but a messenger, one Mallius Glaucia, a man on very close terms with Titus Magnus, was sent
down at once in a light gig to travel through the night and take the information to Titus Capito
Why was all this hurry? How did Glaucia hear of the murder so quickly? What cause to travel
all through the night? Why was it necessary that Capito should know all about it at once? "I
cannot think," says Cicero, "only that I see that Capito has got three of the farms out of
the thirteen which the murdered man owned!" But Capito is to be produced as a witness, and
Cicero gives us to understand what sort of cross-examination he will have to undergo.

In all this the reader has to imagine much, and to come to conclusions as to facts of which
he has no evidence. When that hurried messenger was sent, there was probably no idea of accusing
the son. The two real contrivers of the murder would have been more on their guard had they
intended such a course. It had been conceived that when the man was dead and his goods seized,
the fear of Sulla's favorite, the still customary dread of the horrors of the time, would cause
the son to shrink from inquiry. Hitherto, when men had been killed and their goods taken, even
if the killing and the taking had not been done strictly in accordance with Sulla's ordinance,
it had been found safer to be silent and to endure; but this poor wretch, Sextus, had friends
in Rome--friends who were friends of Sulla--of whom Chrysogonus and the Tituses had probably
not bethought themselves. When it came to pass that more stir was made than they had expected,
then the accusation became necessary.

But, in order to obtain the needed official support and aid, Chrysogonus must be sought. Sulla
was then at Volaterra, in Etruria perhaps 150 miles north-west from Rome, and with him was
his favorite Chrysogonus. In four days from the time of this murder the news was earned thither,
and, so Cicero states, by the same messenger--by Glaucia--who had taken it to Ameria. Chrysogonus
immediately saw to the selling of the goods, and from this Cicero implies that Chrysogonus
and the two Tituses were in partnership.

But it seems that when the fact of the death of old Roscius was known at Ameria--at which place
he was an occasional resident himself, and the most conspicuous man in the place--the inhabitants,
struck with horror, determined to send a deputation to Sulla. Something of what was being done
with their townsman's property was probably known, and there seems to have been a desire for
justice. Ten townsmen were chosen to go to Sulla, and to beg that he would personally look
into the matter. Here, again, we are very much in the dark, because this very Capito, to whom
these farms were allotted as his share, was not only chosen to be one of the ten, but actually
became their spokesman and their manager. The great object was to keep Sulla himself in the
dark, and this Capito managed to do by the aid of Chrysogonus. None of the ten were allowed
to see Sulla. They are hoaxed into believing that Chrysogonus himself will look to it, and
so they go back to Ameria, having achieved nothing. We are tempted to believe that the deputation
was a false deputation, each of whom probably had his little share, so that in this way there
might be an appearance of justice. If it was so, Cicero has not chosen to tell that part of
the story, having, no doubt, some good advocate's reason for omitting it.

So far the matter had gone with the Tituses, and with Chrysogonus who had got his lion's share.
Our poor Roscius, the victim, did at first abandon his property, and allow himself to be awed
into silence. We cannot but think that he was a poor creature, and can fancy that he had lived
a wretched life during all the murders of the Sullan proscriptions. But in his abject misery
he had found his way up among the great friends of his family at Rome, and had there been charged
with the parricide, because Chrysogonus and the Tituses began to be afraid of what these great
friends might do.

This is the story as Cicero has been able to tell it in hiss speech. Beyond that, we only know
that the man was acquitted. Whether he got back part of his father's property there is nothing
to inform us. Whether further inquiry was made as to the murder; whether evil befell those
two Tituses or Chrysogonus was made to disgorge, there has been no one to inform us. The matter
was of little importance in Rome, where murders and organized robberies of the kind were the
common incidents of every-day life. History would have meddled with nothing so ordinary had
not it happened that the case fell into the hands of a man so great a master of his language
that it has been worth the while of ages to perpetuate the speech which he made in the matter.
But the story, as a story of Roman life, is interesting, and it gives a slight aid to history
in explaining the condition of things which Sulla had produced.

The attack upon Chrysogonus is bold, and cannot but have been offensive to Sulla, though Sulla
is by name absolved from immediate blame. Chrysogonus himself, the favorite, he does not spare,
saying words so bitter of tone that one would think that the judges--Sulla's judges--would
have stopped him, had they been able. "Putting aside Sextus Roscius," he says, "I demand, first
of all, why the goods of an esteemed citizen were sold; then, why have the goods been sold
of one who had not himself been proscribed, and who had not been killed while defending Sulla's
enemies? It is against those only that the law is made. Then I demand why they were sold when
the legal day for such sales had passed, and why they were sold for such a trifle."[72] Then
he gives us a picture of Chrysogonus flaunting down the streets. "You have seen him, judges,
how, his locks combed and perfumed, he swims along the Forum"--he, a freedman, with a crowd
of Roman citizens at his heels, that all may see that he thinks himself inferior to none--"the
only happy man of the day, the only one with any power in his hands."[73]

This trial was, as has been said, a "causa publica," a criminal accusation of such importance
as to demand that it should be tried before a full bench of judges. Of these the number would
be uncertain, but they were probably above fifty. The Prætor of the day--the Prætor to whom
by lot had fallen for that year that peculiar duty--presided, and the judges all sat round
him. Their duty seems to have consisted in listening to the pleadings, and then in voting.
Each judge could vote[74] "guilty," "acquitted," or "not proven," as they do in Scotland. They
were, in fact, jurymen rather than judges. It does not seem that any amount of legal lore was
looked for specially in the judges, who at different periods had been taken from various orders
of the citizens, but who at this moment, by a special law enacted by Sulla, were selected only
from the Senators. We have ample evidence that at this period the judges in Rome were most
corrupt. They were tainted by a double corruption: that of standing by their order instead
of standing by the public--each man among them feeling that his turn to be accused might come--and
that also of taking direct bribes. Cicero on various occasions--on this, for instance, and
notably in the trial of Verres, to which we shall come soon--felt very strongly that his only
means of getting a true verdict from the majority of judges was to frighten them into temporary
honesty by the magnitude of the occasion. If a trial could be slurred through with indifferent
advocates, with nothing to create public notice, with no efforts of genius to attract admiration,
and a large attendance and consequent sympathy the judgment would, as a matter of course, be
bought. In such a case as this of Sextus Roscius, the poor wretch would be condemned, sewed
up in his bag, and thrown into the sea, a portion of the plunder would be divided among the
judges, and nothing further would be said about it. But if an orator could achieve for himself
such a reputation that the world would come and listen to him, if he could so speak that Rome
should be made to talk about the trial, then might the judges be frightened into a true verdict.
It may be understood, therefore, of what importance it was to obtain the services of a Cicero,
or of a Hortensius, who was unrivalled at the Roman bar when Cicero began to plead.

There were three special modes of oratory in which Cicero displayed his powers. He spoke either
before the judges--a large body of judges who sat collected round the Prætor, as in the case
of Sextus Roscius--or in cases of civil law before a single judge, selected by the Prætor,
who sat with an assessor, as in the case of Roscius the actor, which shall be mentioned just
now. This was the recognized work of his life, in which he was engaged, at any rate, in his
earlier years; or he spoke to the populace, in what was called the Concio, or assembly of the
people--speeches made before a crowd called together for a special purpose, as were the second
and third orations against Catiline; or in the Senate, in which a political rather than a judicial
sentence was sought from the votes of the Senators. There was a fourth mode of address, which
in the days of the Emperors became common, when the advocate spoke "ad Principem;" that is,
to the Emperor himself, or to some ruler acting for him as sole judge. It was thus that Cicero
pleaded before Cæsar for Ligarius and for King Deiotarus, in the latter years of his life.
In each of these a separate manner and a distinct line had to be adopted, in all of which he
seems to have been equally happy, and equally powerful. In judging of his speeches, we are
bound to remember that they were not probably uttered with their words arranged as we read
them. Some of those we have were never spoken at all, as was the case with the five last Verrene
orations, and with the second, by far the longest of the Philippics. Some, as was specially
the case with the defence of Milo, the language of which is perhaps as perfect as that of any
oration which has reached us from ancient or modern days, were only spoken in part; so that
that which we read bears but small relation to that which was heard. All were probably retouched
for publication.[75] That words so perfect in their construction should have flowed from a
man's mouth, often with but little preparation, we cannot conceive. But we know from the evidence
of the day, and from the character which remained of him through after Roman ages, how great
was the immediate effect of his oratory. We can imagine him, in this case of Sextus Roscius,
standing out in the open air in the Forum, with the movable furniture of the court around him,
the seats on which the judges sat with the Prætor in the midst of them, all Senators in their
white robes, with broad purple borders. There too were seated, we may suppose on lower benches,
the friends of the accused and the supporters of the accusation, and around, at the back of
the orator, was such a crowd as he by the character of his eloquence may have drawn to the
spot. Cicero was still a young man; but his name had made itself known and we can imagine that
some tidings had got abroad as to the bold words which would be spoken in reference to Sulla
and Chrysogonus. The scene must have been very different from that of one of our dingy courts,
in which the ermine is made splendid only by the purity and learning of the man who wears it.
In Rome all exterior gifts were there. Cicero knew how to use them, so that the judges who
made so large a part in the pageant should not dare to disgrace themselves because of its publicity.
Quintilian gives his pupils much advice as to the way in which they should dress themselves[76]
and hold their togas--changing the folds of the garment so as to suit the different parts of
the speech--how they should move their arms, and hold their heads, and turn their necks; even
how they should comb their hair when they came to stand in public and plead at the bar. All
these arts, with many changes, no doubt, as years rolled on, had come down to him from days
before Cicero; but he always refers to Cicero as though his were the palmy days of Roman eloquence.
We can well believe that Cicero had studied many of these arts by his twenty-seventh year--that
he knew how to hold his toga and how to drop it--how to make the proper angle with his elbow--how
to comb his hair, and yet not be a fop--and to add to the glory of his voice all the personal
graces which were at his command.

Sextus Roscius Amerinus, with all his misfortunes, injustices, and miseries, is now to us no
more than the name of a fable; but to those who know it, the fable is, I think, more attractive
than most novels.

We know that Cicero pleaded other causes before he went to Greece in the year 79 B.C., especially
those for Publius Quintius, of which we have his speech, and that for a lady of Arretium, in
which he defended her right to be regarded as a free woman of that city. In this speech he
again attacked Sulla, the rights of the lady in question having been placed in jeopardy by
an enactment made by the Dictator; and again Cicero was successful. This is not extant. Then
he started on his travels, as to which I have already spoken. While he was absent Sulla died,
and the condition of the Republic during his absence was anything but hopeful. Lepidus was
Consul during these two years, than whom no weaker officer ever held rule in Rome--or rebelled
against Rome; and Sertorius, who was in truth a great man, was in arms against Rome in Spain,
as a rebel, though he was in truth struggling to create a new Roman power, which should be
purer than that existing in Italy. What Cicero thought of the condition of his country at this
time we have no means of knowing. If he then wrote letters, they have not been preserved. His
spoken words speak plainly enough of the condition of the courts of law, and let us know how
resolved he was to oppose himself to their iniquities. A young man may devote himself to politics
with as much ardor as a senior, but he cannot do so if he be intent on a profession. It is
only when his business is so well grasped by him as to sit easily on him, that he is able to
undertake the second occupation.

There is a rumor that Cicero, when he returned home from Greece, thought for awhile of giving
himself up to philosophy, so that he was called Greek and Sophist in ridicule. It is not, however,
to be believed that he ever for a moment abandoned the purpose he had formed for his own career.
It will become evident as we go on with his life, that this so-called philosophy of the Greeks
was never to him a matter of more than interesting inquiry. A full, active, human life, in
which he might achieve for himself all the charms of high rank, gilded by intelligence, erudition,
and refined luxury, in which also he might serve his country, his order, and his friends--just
such a life as our leading men propose to themselves here, to-day, in our country--this is
what Cicero had determined to achieve from his earliest years, and it was not likely that he
should be turned from it by the pseudo logic of Greek philosophers. That the logic even of
the Academy was false to him we have ample evidence, not only in his life but in his writings.
There is a story that, during his travels, he consulted the oracle at Delphi as to his future
career, and that on being told that he must look to his own genius and not to the opinion of
the world at large, he determined to abandon the honors of the Republic. That he should have
talked among the young men of the day of his philosophic investigations till they laughed at
him and gave him a nickname, may be probable, but it cannot have been that he ever thought
of giving up the bar.

In the year of his return to Rome, when he was thirty, he married Terentia, a noble lady, of
whom we are informed that she had a good fortune, and that her sister was one of the Vestal
Virgins.[77] Her nobility is inferred from the fact that the virgins were, as a rule, chosen
from the noble families, though the law required only that they should be the daughters of
free parents, and of persons engaged in no mean pursuits. As to the more important question
of Terentia's fortune there has never been a doubt. Plutarch, however, does not make it out
to have been very great, assuming a sum which was equal to about £4200 of our money. He tells
us at the same time that Cicero's own fortune was less than £4000. But in both of these statements,
Plutarch, who was forced to take his facts where he could get them, and was not very particular
in his authority, probably erred. The early education of Cicero, and the care taken to provide
him with all that money could purchase, is, I think, conclusive of his father's wealth; and
the mode of life adopted by Cicero shows that at no period did he think it necessary to live
as men do live with small incomes.

We shall find, as we go on, that he spent his money freely, as men did at Rome who had the
command of large means. We are aware that he was often in debt. We find that from his letters.
But he owed money not as a needy man does, but as one who is speculative, sanguine, and quite
confident of his own resources. The management of incomes was not so fixed a thing then as
it is with us now. Speculation was even more rampant, and rising men were willing and were
able to become indebted for enormous sums, having no security to offer but the promise of their
future career. Cæsar's debts during various times of his life were proverbial. He is said to
have owed over £300,000 before he reached his first step in the public employment. Cicero rushed
into no such danger as this. We know, indeed, that when the time came to him for public expenditure
on a great scale, as, for instance, when he was filling the office of Ædile, he kept within
bounds, and he did not lavish money which he did not possess. We know also that he refrained,
altogether refrained, from the iniquitous habits of making large fortunes which were open to
the great politicians of the Republic. To be Quæstor that he might be Ædile, Ædile that he
might be Prætor and Consul, and Prætor and Consul that he might rob a province--pillage Sicily,
Spain, or Asia, and then at last come back a rich man, rich enough to cope with all his creditors,
and to bribe the judges should he be accused for his misdeeds--these were the usual steps to
take by enterprising Romans toward power, wealth, and enjoyment. But it will be observed, in
this sequence of circumstances, the robbery of the province was essential to success. This
was sometimes done after so magnificent a fashion as to have become an immortal fact in history.
The instance of Verres will be narrated in the next chapter but one. Something of moderation
was more general, so that the fleeced provincial might still live, and prefer sufferance to
the doubtful chances of recovery. A Proconsul might rob a great deal, and still return with
hands apparently clean, bringing with him a score of provincial Deputies to laud his goodness
before the citizens at home. But Cicero robbed not at all. Even they who have been most hard
upon his name, accusing him of insincerity and sometimes of want of patriotism, because his
Roman mode of declaring himself without reserve in his letters has been perpetuated for us
by the excellence of their language, even they have acknowledged that he kept his hands studiously
clean in the service of his country, when to have clean hands was so peculiar as to be regarded
as absurd.

There were other means in which a noble Roman might make money, and might do so without leaving
the city. An orator might be paid for his services as an advocate. Cicero, had such a trade
been opened to him, might have made almost any sum to which his imagination could have stretched
itself. Such a trade was carried on to a very great extent. It was illegal, such payment having
been forbidden by the "Lex Cincia De Muneribus," passed more than a century before Cicero began
his pleadings.[78] But the law had become a dead letter in the majority of cases. There can
be no doubt that Hortensius, the predecessor and great rival of Cicero, took presents, if not
absolute payment. Indeed, the myth of honorary work, which is in itself absurd, was no more
practicable in Rome than it has been found to be in England, where every barrister is theoretically
presumed to work for nothing. That the "Lex Cincia," as far as the payment of advocates went,
was absurd, may be allowed by us all. Services for which no regular payment can be exacted
will always cost more than those which have a defined price. But Cicero would not break the
law. It has been hinted rather than stated that he, like other orators of the day, had his
price. He himself tells us that he took nothing; and no instance has been adduced that he had
ever done so. He is free enough in accusing Hortensius of having accepted a beautiful statuette,
an ivory sphinx of great value. What he knew of Hortensius, Hortensius would have known of
him, had it been there to know; and what Hortensius or others had heard would certainly have
been told. As far as we can learn, there is no ground for accusing Cicero of taking fees or
presents beyond the probability that he would do so. I think we are justified in believing
that he did not do so, because those who watched his conduct closely found no opportunity of
exposing him. That he was paid by different allied States for undertaking their protection
in the Senate, is probable, such having been a custom not illegal. We know that he was specially
charged with the affairs of Dyrrachium, and had probably amicable relations with other allied
communities. This, however, must have been later in life, when his name was sufficiently high
to insure the value of his services, and when he was a Senator.

Noble Romans also--noble as they were, and infinitely superior to the little cares of trade--were
accustomed to traffic very largely in usury. We shall have a terrible example of such baseness
on the part of Brutus--that Brutus whom we have been taught to regard as almost on a par with
Cato in purity. To lend money to citizens, or more profitably to allied States and cities,
at enormous rates of interest, was the ordinary resource of a Roman nobleman in quest of revenue.
The allied city, when absolutely eaten to the bone by one noble Roman, who had plundered it
as Proconsul or Governor, would escape from its immediate embarrassment by borrowing money
from another noble Roman, who would then grind its very bones in exacting his interest and
his principal. Cicero, in the most perfect of his works--the treatise De Officiis, an essay
in which he instructs his son as to the way in which a man should endeavor to live so as to
be a gentleman--inveighs both against trade and usury. When he tells us that they are to be
accounted mean who buy in order that they may sell, we, with our later lights, do not quite
agree with him, although he founds his assertion on an idea which is too often supported by
the world's practice, namely, that men cannot do a retail business profitably without lying.[79]
The doctrine, however, has always been common that retail trade is not compatible with noble
bearing, and was practised by all Romans who aspired to be considered among the upper classes.
That other and certainly baser means of making money by usury was, however, only too common.
Crassus, the noted rich man of Rome in Cæsar's day, who was one of the first Triumvirate, and
who perished ignominiously in Parthia, was known to have gathered much of his wealth by such
means. But against this Cicero is as staunchly severe as against shopkeeping. "First of all,"
he says, "these profits are despicable which incur the hatred of men, such as those of gatherers
of custom and lenders of money on usury."[80]

Again, we are entitled to say that Cicero did not condescend to enrich himself by the means
which he himself condemns, because, had he done so, the accusations made against him by his
contemporaries would have reached our ears. Nor is it probable that a man in addressing his
son as to rules of life would have spoken against a method of gathering riches which, had he
practised it himself, must have been known to his son. His rules were severe as compared with
the habits of the time. His dear friend Atticus did not so govern his conduct, or Brutus, who,
when he wrote the De Officiis, was only less dear to him than Atticus. But Cicero himself seems
to have done so faithfully. We learn from his letter that he owned house-property in Rome to
a considerable extent, having probably thus invested his own money or that of his wife. He
inherited also the family house at Arpinum. He makes it a matter for boasting that he had received
in the course of his life by legacies nearly £200,000 (twenty million sesterces), in itself
a source of great income, and one common with Romans of high position.[81] Of the extent of
his income it is impossible to speak, or even make a guess. But we do know that he lived always
as a rich man--as one who regards such a condition of life as essentially proper to him; and
that though he was often in debt, as was customary with noble Romans, he could always write
about his debts in a vein of pleasantry, showing that they were not a heavy burden to him;
and we know that he could at all times command for himself villas, books, statues, ornaments,
columns, galleries, charming shades, and all the delicious appendages of mingled wealth and
intelligence. He was as might be some English marquis, who, though up to his eyes in mortgages,
is quite sure that he will never want any of the luxuries befitting a marquis. Though we have
no authority to tell us how his condition of life became what it was, it is necessary that
we should understand that condition if we are to get a clear insight into his life. Of that
condition we have ample evidence. He commenced his career as a youth upon whose behalf nothing
was spared, and when he settled himself in Rome, with the purport of winning for himself the
highest honors of the Republic, he did so with the means of living like a nobleman.

But the point on which it is most necessary to insist is this: that while so many--I may almost
say all around him in his own order--were unscrupulous as to their means of getting money,
he kept his hands clean. The practice then was much as it is now. A gentleman in our days is
supposed to have his hands clean; but there has got abroad among us a feeling that, only let
a man rise high enough, soil will not stick to him. To rob is base; but if you rob enough,
robbery will become heroism, or, at any rate, magnificence. With Cæsar his debts have been
accounted happy audacity; his pillage of Gaul and Spain, and of Rome also, have indicated only
the success of the great General; his cruelty, which in cold-blooded efficiency has equalled
if not exceeded the blood-thirstiness of any other tyrant, has been called clemency.[82] I
do not mean to draw a parallel between Cæsar and Cicero. No two men could have been more different
in their natures or in their career. But the one has been lauded because he was unscrupulous,
and the other has incurred reproach because, at every turn and twist in his life, scruples
dominated him. I do not say that he always did what he thought to be right. A man who doubts
much can never do that. The thing that was right to him in the thinking became wrong to him
in the doing. That from which he has shrunk as evil when it was within his grasp, takes the
color of good when it has been beyond his reach. Cicero had not the stuff in him to rule the
Rome and the Romans of his period; but he was a man whose hands were free from all stain, either
of blood or money; and for so much let him, at any rate, have the credit.

Between the return of Cicero to Rome in 77 B.C. and his election as Quæstor in 75, in which
period he married Terentia, he made various speeches in different causes, of which only one
remains to us, or rather, a small part of one. This is notable as having been spoken in behalf
of that Roscius, the great comic actor, whose name has become familiar to us on account of
his excellence, almost as have those of Garrick, of Siddons, and of Talma. It was a pleading
as to the value of a slave, and the amount of pecuniary responsibility attaching to Roscius
on account of the slave, who had been murdered when in his charge. As to the murder, no question
is made. The slave was valuable, and the injury done to his master was a matter of importance.
He, having been a slave, could have no stronger a claim for an injury done to himself than
would a dog or a horse. The slave, whose name was Panurge--a name which has since been made
famous as having been borrowed by Rabelais, probably from this occurrence, and given to his
demon of mischief--showed aptitude for acting, and was therefore valuable. Then one Flavius
killed him; why or how we do not know; and, having killed him, settled with Roscius for the
injury by giving him a small farm. But Roscius had only borrowed or hired the man from one
Chærea--or was in partnership with Chærea as to the man--and on that account paid something
out of the value of the farm for the loss incurred; but the owner was not satisfied, and after
a lapse of time made a further claim. Hence arose the action, in pleading which Cicero was
successful. In the fragment we have of the speech there is nothing remarkable except the studied
clearness of the language; but it reminds us of the opinion which Cicero had expressed of this
actor in the oration which he made for Publius Quintius, who was the brother-in-law of Roscius.
"He is such an actor," says Cicero, "that there is none other on the stage worthy to be seen;
and such a man that among men he is the last that should have become an actor."[83] The orator's
praise of the actor is not of much importance. Had not Roscius been great in his profession,
his name would not have come down to later ages. Nor is it now matter of great interest that
the actor should have been highly praised as a man by his advocate; but it is something for
us to know that the stage was generally held in such low repute as to make it seem to be a
pity that a good man should have taken himself to such a calling.

In the year 76 B.C. Cicero became father of a daughter, whom we shall know as Tullia--who,
as she grew up, became the one person whom he loved best in all the world--and was elected
Quæstor. Cicero tells us of himself that in the preceding year he had solicited the Quæstorship,
when Cotta was candidate for the Consulship and Hortensius for the Prætorship. There are in
the dialogue De Claris Oratoribus--which has had the name of Brutus always given to it--some
passages in which the orator tells us more of himself than in any other of his works. I will
annex a translation of a small portion because of its intrinsic interest; but I will relegate
it to an appendix, because it is too long either for insertion in the text or for a note.[84]

CHAPTER V.

CICERO AS QUÆSTOR.

Cicero was elected Quæstor in his thirtieth year, B.C. 76. He was then nearly thirty-one. His
predecessors and rivals at the bar, Cotta and Hortensius, were elected Consul and Prætor, respectively,
in the same year. To become Quæstor at the earliest age allowed by the law (at thirty-one,
namely) was the ambition of the Roman advocate who purposed to make his fortune by serving
the State. To act as Quæstor in his thirty-second year, Ædile in his thirty-seventh, Prætor
in his forty-first, and Consul in his forty-fourth year, was to achieve, in the earliest succession
allowed by law, all the great offices of trust, power, and future emolument. The great reward
of proconsular rapine did not generally come till after the last step, though there were notable
instances in which a Proprætor with proconsular authority could make a large fortune, as we
shall learn when we come to deal with Verres, and though Ædiles, and even Quæstors, could find
pickings. It was therefore a great thing for a man to begin as early as the law would permit,
and to lose as few years as possible in reaching the summit. Cicero lost none. As he himself
tells us in the passage to which I have referred in the last chapter, and which is to be found
in the Appendix, he gained the good-will of men--that is, of free Romans who had the suffrage,
and who could therefore vote either for him or against him--by the assiduity of his attention
to the cases which he undertook, and by a certain brilliancy of speech which was new to them.[85]
Putting his hand strenuously to the plough, allowing himself to be diverted by none of those
luxuries to which Romans of his day were so wont to give way, he earned his purpose by a resolution
to do his very best. He was "Novus Homo"--a man, that is, belonging to a family of which no
member had as yet filled high office in the State. Against such there was a strong prejudice
with the aristocracy, who did not like to see the good things of the Republic dispersed among
an increased number of hands. The power of voting was common to all Roman male citizens; but
the power of influencing the electors had passed very much into the hands of the rich. The
admiration which Cicero had determined to elicit would not go very far, unless it could be
produced in a very high degree. A Verres could get himself made Prætor; a Lepidus some years
since could receive the Consulship; or now an Antony, or almost a Catiline. The candidate would
borrow money on the security of his own audacity, and would thus succeed--perhaps with some
minor gifts of eloquence, if he could achieve them. With all this, the borrowing and the spending
of money, that is, with direct bribery, Cicero would have nothing to do; but of the art of
canvassing--that art by which he could at the moment make himself beloved by the citizens who
had a vote to give--he was a profound master.

There is a short treatise, De Petitione Consulatus, on canvassing for the Consulship, of which
mention may be made here, because all the tricks of the trade were as essential to him, when
looking to be Quæstor, as when he afterward desired to be Consul, and because the political
doings of his life will hurry us on too quickly in the days of his Consulship to admit of our
referring to these lessons. This little piece, of which we have only a fragment, is supposed
to have been addressed to Cicero by his brother Quintus, giving fraternal advice as to the
then coming great occasion. The critics say that it was retouched by the orator himself. The
reader who has studied Cicero's style will think that the retouching went to a great extent,
or that the two brothers were very like each other in their power of expression.

The first piece of advice was no doubt always in Cicero's mind, not only when he looked for
office, but whenever he addressed a meeting of his fellow-citizens. "Bethink yourself what
is this Republic; what it is you seek to be in it, and who you are that seek it. As you go
down daily to the Forum, turn the answer to this in your mind: 'Novus sum; consulatum peto;
Roma est'--'I am a man of an untried family. It is the Consulship that I seek. It is Rome in
which I seek it.'" Though the condition of Rome was bad, still to him the Republic was the
greatest thing in the world, and to be Consul in that Republic the highest honor which the
world could give.

There is nobility in that, but there is very much that is ignoble in the means of canvassing
which are advocated. I cannot say that they are as yet too ignoble for our modern use here
in England, but they are too ignoble to be acknowledged by our candidates themselves, or by
their brothers on their behalf. Cicero, not having progressed far enough in modern civilization
to have studied the beauty of truth, is held to be false and hypocritical. We who know so much
more than he did, and have the doctrine of truth at our fingers' ends, are wise enough to declare
nothing of our own shortcomings, but to attribute such malpractices only to others. "It is
a good thing to be thought worthy of the rank we seek by those who are in possession of it."
Make yourself out to be an aristocrat, he means. "Canvass them, and cotton to them. Make them
believe that in matters of politics you have always been with the aristocracy, never with the
mob;" that if "you have at all spoken a word in public to tickle the people, you have done
so for the sake of gaining Pompey." As to this, it is necessary to understand Pompey's peculiar
popularity at the moment, both with the Liberals and with the Conservatives. "Above all, see
that you have with you the 'jeunesse dorée.' They carry so much! There are many with you already.
Take care that they shall know how much you think of them."

He is especially desired to make known to the public the iniquities of Catiline, his opponent,
as to whom Quintus says that, though he has lately been acquitted in regard to his speculations
in Africa, he has had to bribe the judges so highly that he is now as poor as they were before
they got their plunder. At every word we read we are tempted to agree with Mommsen that on
the Roman oligarchy of the period no judgment can be passed save one, "of inexorable condemnation."[86]

"Remember," says Quintus, "that your candidature is very strong in that kind of friendship
which has been created by your pleadings. Take care that each of those friends shall know what
special business is allotted to him on the occasion; and as you have not troubled any of them
yet, make them understand that you have reserved for the present moment the payment of their
debts." This is all very well; but the next direction mingles so much of business with its
truth, that no one but Machiavelli or Quintus Cicero could have expressed it in words. "Men,"
says Quintus, "are induced to struggle for us in these canvassings by three motives--by memory
of kindness done, by the hope of kindness to come, and by community of political conviction.
You must see how you are to catch each of these. Small favors will induce a man to canvass
for you; and they who owe their safety to your pleadings, for there are many such, are aware
that if they do not stand by you now they will be regarded by all the world as sorry fellows.
Nevertheless, they should be made to feel that, as they are indebted to you, you will be glad
to have an opportunity of becoming indebted to them. But as to those on whom you have a hold
only by hope--a class of men very much more numerous, and likely to be very much more active--they
are the men whom you should make to understand that your assistance will be always at their
command."

How severe, how difficult was the work of canvassing in Rome, we learn from these lessons.
It was the very essence of a great Roman's life that he should live in public; and to such
an extent was this carried that we wonder how such a man as Cicero found time for the real
work of his life. The Roman patron was expected to have a levee every morning early in his
own house, and was wont, when he went down into the Forum, to be attended by a crowd of parasites.
This had become so much a matter of course that a public man would have felt himself deserted
had he been left alone either at home or abroad. Rome was full of idlers--of men who got their
bread by the favors of the great, who lounged through their lives--political quidnuncs, who
made canvassing a trade--men without a conviction, but who believed in the ascendency of this
or the other leader, and were ready to fawn or to fight in the streets, as there might be need.
These were the Quirites of the day--men who were in truth fattened on the leavings of the plunder
which was extracted from the allies; for it was the case now that a Roman was content to live
on the industry of those whom his father had conquered. They would still fight in the legions;
but the work of Rome was done by slaves, and the wealth of Rome was robbed from the Provinces.
Hence it came about that there was a numerous class, to whom the name "assectatores" was given,
who of course became specially prominent at elections. Quintus divides all such followers into
three kinds, and gives instructions as to the special treatment to be applied to each. "There
are those who come to pay their respects to you at your own house"--"Salutatores" they were
called; "then those who go down with you into the Forum"--"Deductores;" "and after these the
third, the class of constant followers"--"Assectatores," as they were specially named. "As
to the first, who are the least in consequence, and who, according to our present ways of living,
come in great numbers, you should take care to let them know that their doing even so much
as this is much esteemed by you. Let them perceive that you note it when they come, and say
as much to their friends, who will repeat your words. Tell themselves often if it be possible.
In this way men, when there are many candidates, will observe that there is one who has his
eyes open to these courtesies, and they will give themselves heart and soul to him, neglecting
all others. And mind you, when you find that a man does but pretend, do not let him perceive
that you have perceived it. Should any one wish to excuse himself, thinking that he is suspected
of indifference, swear that you have never doubted him, nor had occasion to doubt.

"As to the work of the 'Deductores,' who go out with you--as it is much more severe than that
of those who merely come to pay their compliments, let them understand that you feel it to
be so, and, as far as possible, be ready to go into town with them at fixed hours." Quintus
here means that the "Deductores" are not to be kept waiting for the patron longer than can
be helped. "The attendance of a daily crowd in taking you down to the Forum gives a great show
of character and dignity.

"Then come the band of followers which accompanies you diligently wherever you go. As to those
who do this without special obligation, take care that they should know how much you think
of them. From those who owe it to you as a duty, exact it rigorously. See that they who can
come themselves do come themselves, and that they who cannot, send others in their places."
What an idea does this give as to the labor of a candidate in Rome! I can imagine it to be
worse even than the canvassing of an English borough, which to a man of spirit and honor is
the most degrading of all existing employments not held to be absolutely disgraceful.

Quintus then goes on from the special management of friends to the general work of canvassing.
"It requires the remembering of men's names"--"nomenclationem," a happy word we do not possess--"flattery,
diligence, sweetness of temper, good report, and a high standing in the Republic. Let it be
seen that you have been at the trouble to remember people, and practise yourself to it so that
the power may increase with you. There is nothing so alluring to the citizen as that. If there
be a softness which you have not by nature, so affect it that it shall seem to be your own
naturally. You have indeed a way with you which is not unbecoming to a good-natured man; but
you must caress men--which is in truth vile and sordid at other times, but is absolutely necessary
at elections. It is no doubt a mean thing to flatter some low fellow, but when it is necessary
to make a friend it can be pardoned. A candidate must do it, whose face and look and tongue
should be made to suit those he has to meet. What perseverance means I need not tell you. The
word itself explains itself. As a matter of course, you shall not leave the city; but it is
not enough for you to stick to your work in Rome and in the Forum. You must seek out the voters
and canvass them separately; and take care that no one shall ask from another what it is that
you want from him. Let it have been solicited by yourself, and often solicited." Quintus seems
to have understood the business well, and the elder brother no doubt profited by the younger
brother's care.

It was so they did it at Rome. That men should have gone through all this in search of plunder
and wealth does not strike us as being marvellous, or even out of place. A vile object justifies
vile means. But there were some at Rome who had it in their hearts really to serve their country,
and with whom it was at the same time a matter of conscience that, in serving their country,
they would not dishonestly or dishonorably enrich themselves. There was still a grain of salt
left. But even this could not make itself available for useful purpose without having recourse
to tricks such as these!

[Sidenote: B.C. 75, ætat. 32.]

In his proper year Cicero became Quæstor, and had assigned to him by lot the duty of looking
after the Western Division of Sicily. For Sicily, though but one province as regarded general
condition, being under one governor with proconsular authority, retained separate modes of
government, or, rather, varied forms of subjection to Rome, especially in matters of taxation,
according as it had or had not been conquered from the Carthaginians.[87] Cicero was quartered
at Lilybæum, on the west, whereas the other Quæstor was placed at Syracuse, in the east. There
were at that time twenty Quæstors elected annually, some of whom remained in Rome; but most
of the number were stationed about the Empire, there being always one as assistant to each
Proconsul. When a Consul took the field with an army, he always had a Quæstor with him. This
had become the case so generally that the Quæstor became, as it were, something between a private
secretary and a senior lieutenant to a governor. The arrangement came to have a certain sanctity
attached to it, as though there was something in the connection warmer and closer than that
of mere official life; so that a Quæstor has been called a Proconsul's son for the time, and
was supposed to feel that reverence and attachment that a son entertains for his father.

But to Cicero, and to young Quæstors in general, the great attraction of the office consisted
in the fact that the aspirant having once become a Quæstor was a Senator for the rest of his
life, unless he should be degraded by misconduct. Gradually it had come to pass that the Senate
was replenished by the votes of the people, not directly, but by the admission into the Senate
of the popularly elected magistrates. There were in the time of Cicero between 500 and 600
members of this body. The numbers down to the time of Sulla had been increased or made up by
direct selection by the old Kings, or by the Censors, or by some Dictator, such as was Sulla;
and the same thing was done afterward by Julius Cæsar. The years between Sulla's Dictatorship
and that of Cæsar were but thirty--from 79 to 49 B.C. These, however, were the years in which
Cicero dreamed that the Republic could be re-established by means of an honest Senate, which
Senate was then to be kept alive by the constant infusion of new blood, accruing to it from
the entrance of magistrates who had been chosen by the people. Tacitus tells us that it was
with this object that Sulla had increased the number of Quæstors.[88] Cicero's hopes--his futile
hopes of what an honest Senate might be made to do--still ran high, although at the very time
in which he was elected Quæstor he was aware that the judges, then elected from the Senate,
were so corrupt that their judgment could not be trusted. Of this popular mode of filling the
Senate he speaks afterward in his treatise De Legibus. "From those who have acted as magistrates
the Senate is composed--a measure altogether in the popular interest, as no one can now reach
the highest rank"--namely, the Senate--"except by the votes of the people, all power of selecting
having been taken away from the Censors."[89] In his pleadings for P. Sextus he makes the same
boast as to old times, not with absolute accuracy, as far as we can understand the old constitution,
but with the same passionate ardor as to the body. "Romans, when they could no longer endure
the rule of kings, created annual magistrates, but after such fashion that the Council of the
Senate was set over the Republic for its guidance. Senators were chosen for that work by the
entire people, and the entrance to that order was opened to the virtue and to the industry
of the citizens at large."[90] When defending Cluentius, he expatiates on the glorious privileges
of the Roman Senate. "Its high place, its authority, its splendor at home, its name and fame
abroad, the purple robe, the ivory chair, the appanage of office, the fasces, the army with
its command, the government of the provinces!"[91] On that splendor "apud exteras gentes,"
he expatiates in one of his attacks upon Verres.[92] From all this will be seen Cicero's idea
of the chamber into which he had made his way as soon as he had been chosen Quæstor.

In this matter, which was the pivot on which his whole life turned--the character, namely,
of the Roman Senate--it cannot but be observed that he was wont to blow both hot and cold.
It was his nature to do so, not from any aptitude for deceit, but because he was sanguine and
vacillating--because he now aspired and now despaired. He blew hot and cold in regard to the
Senate, because at times he would feel it to be what it was--composed, for the most part, of
men who were time-serving and corrupt, willing to sell themselves for a price to any buyer;
and then, again, at times he would think of the Senate as endowed with all those privileges
which he names, and would dream that under his influence it would become what it should be--such
a Senate as he believed it to have been in its old palmy days. His praise of the Senate, his
description of what it should be and might be, I have given. To the other side of the picture
we shall come soon, when I shall have to show how, at the trial of Verres, he declared before
the judges themselves how terrible had been the corruption of the judgment-seat in Rome since,
by Sulla's enactment, it had been occupied only by the Senators. One passage I will give now,
in order that the reader may see by the juxtaposition of the words that he could denounce the
Senate as loudly as he would vaunt its privileges. In the column on the left hand in the note
I quote the words with which, in the first pleading against Verres, he declared "that every
base and iniquitous thing done on the judgment-seat during the ten years since the power of
judging had been transferred to the Senate should be not only denounced by him, but also proved;"
and in that on the right I will repeat the noble phrases which he afterward used in the speech
for Cluentius when he chose to speak well of the order.[93]

It was on the Senate that they who wished well for Rome must depend--on the Senate, chosen,
refreshed, and replenished from among the people; on a body which should be at the same time
august and popular--as far removed on the one side from the tyranny of individuals as on the
other from the violence of the mob; but on a Senate freed from its corruption and dirt, on
a body of noble Romans, fitted by their individual character and high rank to rule and to control
their fellow-citizens. This was Cicero's idea, and this the state of things which he endeavored
to achieve. No doubt he dreamed that his own eloquence and his own example might do more in
producing this than is given to men to achieve by such means. No doubt there was conceit in
this--conceit and perhaps, vanity. It has to be admitted that Cicero always exaggerated his
own powers. But the ambition was great, the purpose noble, and the course of his whole life
was such as to bring no disgrace on his aspirations. He did not thunder against the judges
for taking bribes, and then plunder a province himself. He did not speak grandly of the duty
of a patron to his clients, and then open his hands to illicit payments. He did not call upon
the Senate for high duty, and then devote himself to luxury and pleasure. He had a beau ideal
of the manner in which a Roman Senator should live and work, and he endeavored to work and
live up to that ideal. There was no period after his Consulship in which he was not aware of
his own failure. Nevertheless, with constant labor, but with intermittent struggles, he went
on, till, at the end, in the last fiery year of his existence, he taught himself again to think
that even yet there was a chance. How he struggled, and in struggling perished, we shall see
by-and-by.

What Cicero did as Quæstor in Sicily we have no means of knowing. His correspondence does not
go back so far. That he was very active, and active for good, we have two testimonies, one
of which is serious, convincing, and most important as an episode in his life. The other consists
simply of a good story, told by himself of himself; not intended at all for his own glorification,
but still carrying with it a certain weight. As to the first: Cicero was Quæstor in Lilybæum
in the thirty-second year of his life. In the thirty-seventh year he was elected Ædile, and
was then called upon by the Sicilians to attack Verres on their behalf. Verres was said to
have carried off from Sicily plunder to the amount of nearly £400,000,[94] after a misrule
of three years' duration. All Sicily was ruined. Beyond its pecuniary losses, its sufferings
had been excruciating; but not till the end had come of a Governor's proconsular authority
could the almost hopeless chance of a criminal accusation against the tyrant be attempted.
The tyrant would certainly have many friends in Rome. The injured provincials would probably
have none of great mark. A man because he had been Quæstor was not, necessarily, one having
influence, unless he belonged to some great family. This was not the case with Cicero. But
he had made for himself such a character during his year of office that the Sicilians declared
that, if they could trust themselves to any man at Rome, it would be to their former Quæstor.
It had been a part of his duty to see that the proper supply of corn was collected in the island
and sent to Rome. A great portion of the bread eaten in Rome was grown in Sicily, and much
of it was supplied in the shape of a tax. It was the hateful practice of Rome to extract the
means of living from her colonies, so as to spare her own laborers. To this, hard as it was,
the Sicilians were well used. They knew the amount required of them by law, and were glad enough
when they could be quit in payment of the dues which the law required; but they were seldom
blessed by such moderation on the part of their rulers. To what extent this special tax could
be stretched we shall see when we come to the details of the trial of Verres. It is no doubt
only from Cicero's own words that we learn that, though he sent to Rome plenteous supplies,
he was just to the dealer, liberal to the pawns, and forbearing to the allies generally; and
that when he took his departure they paid him honors hitherto unheard of.[95] But I think we
may take it for granted that this statement is true; firstly, because it has never been contradicted;
and then from the fact that the Sicilians all came to him in the day of their distress.

As to the little story to which I have alluded, it has been told so often since Cicero told
it himself, that I am almost ashamed to repeat it. It is, however, too emblematic of the man,
gives us too close an insight both into his determination to do his duty and to his pride--conceit,
if you will--at having done it, to be omitted. In his speech for Plancius[96] he tells us that
by chance, coming direct from Sicily after his Quæstorship, he found himself at Puteoli just
at the season when the fashion from Rome betook itself to that delightful resort. He was full
of what he had done--how he had supplied Rome with corn, but had done so without injury to
the Sicilians, how honestly he had dealt with the merchants, and had in truth won golden opinions
on all sides--so much so that he thought that when he reached the city the citizens in a mob
would be ready to receive him. Then at Puteoli he met two acquaintances. "Ah," says one to
him, "when did you leave Rome? What news have you brought?" Cicero, drawing his head up, as
we can see him, replied that he had just returned from his province. "Of course, just back
from Africa," said the other. "Not so," said Cicero, bridling in anger--"stomachans fastidiose,"
as he describes it himself--"but from Sicily." Then the other lounger, a fellow who pretended
to know everything, put in his word. "Do you not know that our Cicero has been Quæstor at Syracuse?"
The reader will remember that he had been Quæstor in the other division of the island, at Lilybæum.
"There was no use in thinking any more about it," says Cicero. "I gave up being angry and determined
to be like any one else, just one at the waters." Yes, he had been very conceited, and well
understood his own fault of character in that respect; but he would not have shown his conceit
in that matter had he not resolved to do his duty in a manner uncommon then among Quæstors,
and been conscious that he had done it.

Perhaps there is no more certain way of judging a man than from his own words, if his real
words be in our possession. In doing so, we are bound to remember how strong will be the bias
of every man's mind in his own favor, and for that reason a judicious reader will discount
a man's praise of himself. But the reader, to get at the truth, if he be indeed judicious,
will discount them after a fashion conformable with the nature of the man whose character he
is investigating. A reader will not be judicious who imagines that what a man says of his own
praises must be false, or that all which can be drawn from his own words in his own dispraise
must be true. If a man praise himself for honor, probity, industry, and patriotism, he will
at any rate show that these virtues are dear to him, unless the course of his life has proved
him to be altogether a hypocrite in such utterances. It has not been presumed that Cicero was
a hypocrite in these utterances. He was honest and industrious; he did appreciate honor and
love his country. So much is acknowledged; and yet it is supposed that what good he has told
us of himself is false. If a man doubt of himself constantly; if in his most private intercourse
and closest familiar utterances he admit occasionally his own human weakness; if he find himself
to have failed at certain moments, and says so, the very feelings that have produced such confessions
are proof that the highest points which have not been attained have been seen and valued. A
man will not sorrowfully regret that he has won only a second place, or a third, unless he
be alive to the glory of the first. But Cicero's acknowledgments have all been taken as proof
against himself. All manner of evil is argued against him from his own words, when an ill meaning
can be attached to them; but when he speaks of his great aspirations, he is ridiculed for bombast
and vanity. On the strength of some perhaps unconsidered expression, in a letter to Atticus,
he is condemned for treachery, whereas the sentences in which he has thoughtfully declared
the purposes of his very soul are counted as clap-traps.

No one has been so frequently condemned out of his mouth as Cicero, and naturally. In these
modern days we have contemporary records as to prominent persons. Of the characters of those
who lived in long-past ages we generally fail to have any clear idea, because we lack those
close chronicles which are necessary for the purpose. What insight have we into the personality
of Alexander the Great, or what insight had Plutarch, who wrote about him? As to Samuel Johnson,
we seem to know every turn of his mind, having had a Boswell. Alexander had no Boswell. But
here is a man belonging to those past ages of which I speak who was his own Boswell, and after
such a fashion that, since letters were invented, no records have ever been written in language
more clear or more attractive. It is natural that we should judge out of his own mouth one
who left so many more words behind him than did any one else, particularly one who left words
so pleasant to read. And all that he wrote was after some fashion about himself. His letters,
like all letters, are personal to himself. His speeches are words coming out of his own mouth
about affairs in which he was personally engaged and interested. His rhetoric consists of lessons
given by himself about his own art, founded on his own experience, and on his own observation
of others. His so-called philosophy gives us the workings of his own mind. No one has ever
told the world so much about another person as Cicero has told the world about Cicero. Boswell
pales before him as a chronicler of minutiæ. It may be a matter of small interest now to the
bulk of readers to be intimately acquainted with a Roman who was never one of the world's conquerors.
It may be well for those who desire to know simply the facts of the world's history, to dismiss
as unnecessary the aspirations of one who lived so long ago. But if it be worth while to discuss
the man's character, it must be worth while to learn the truth about it.

"Oh that mine adversary had written a book!" Who does not understand the truth of these words!
It is always out of a man's mouth that you may most surely condemn him. Cicero wrote many books,
and all about himself. He has been honored very highly. Middleton, in the preface to his own
biography, which, with all its charms, has become a by-word for eulogy; quotes the opinion
of Erasmus, who tells us that he loves the writings of the man "not only for the divine felicity
of his style, but for the sanctity of his heart and morals." This was the effect left on the
mind of an accurate thinker and most just man. But then also has Cicero been spoken of with
the bitterest scorn. From Dio Cassius, who wrote two hundred and twenty years after Christ,
down to Mr. Froude, whose Cæsar has just been published, he has had such hard things said of
him by men who have judged him out of his own mouth, that the reader does not know how to reconcile
what he now reads with the opinion of men of letters who lived and wrote in the century next
after his death--with the testimony of such a man as Erasmus, and with the hearty praises of
his biographer, Middleton. The sanctity of his heart and morals! It was thus that Erasmus was
struck in reading his works. It is a feeling of that kind, I profess, that has induced me to
take this work in hand--a feeling produced altogether by the study of his own words. It has
seemed to be that he has loved men so well, has been so anxious for the true, has been so capable
of honesty when dishonesty was common among all around him, has been so jealous in the cause
of good government, has been so hopeful when there has been but little ground for hope, as
to have deserved a reputation for sanctity of heart and morals.

Of the speeches made by Cicero as advocate after his Quæstorship, and before those made in
the accusation of Verres, we have the fragment only of the second of two spoken in defence
of Marcus Tullius Decula, whom we may suppose to have been distantly connected with his family.
He does not avow any relationship. "What," he says, in opening his argument, "does it become
me, a Tullius, to do for this other Tullius, a man not only my friend, but my namesake?" It
was a matter of no great importance, as it was addressed to judges not so called, but to "recuperatores,"
judges chosen by the Prætor, and who acted in lighter cases.

CHAPTER VI.

VERRES.

There are six episodes, or, as I may say, divisions in the life of Cicero to which special
interest attaches itself. The first is the accusation against Verres, in which he drove the
miscreant howling out of the city. The second is his Consulship, in which he drove Catiline
out of the city, and caused certain other conspirators who were joined with the arch rebel
to be killed, either legally or illegally. The third was his exile, in which he himself was
driven out of Rome. The fourth was a driving out, too, though of a more honorable kind, when
he was compelled, much against his will, to undertake the government of a province. The fifth
was Cæsar's passing of the Rubicon, the battle of Pharsalia, and his subsequent adherence to
Cæsar. The last was his internecine combat with Antony, which produced the Philippics, and
that memorable series of letters in which he strove to stir into flames the expiring embers
of the Republic. The literary work with which we are acquainted is spread, but spread very
unequally, over his whole life. I have already told the story of Sextus Roscius Amerinus, having
taken it from his own words. From that time onward he wrote continually; but the fervid stream
of his eloquence came forth from him with unrivalled rapidity in the twenty last miserable
months of his life.

We have now come to the first of those episodes, and I have to tell the way in which Cicero
struggled with Verres, and how he conquered him. In 74 B.C. Verres was Prætor in Rome. At that
period of the Republic there were eight Prætors elected annually, two of whom remained in the
city, whereas the others were employed abroad, generally with the armies of the Empire. In
the next year, 73 B.C., Verres went in due course to Sicily with proconsular or proprætorial
authority, having the government assigned to him for twelve months. This was usual and constitutional,
but it was not unusual, even if unconstitutional, that this period should be prolonged. In
the case of Verres it was prolonged, so that he should hold the office for three years. He
had gone through the other offices of the State, having been Quæstor in Asia and Ædile afterward
in Rome, to the great misfortune of all who were subjected to his handling, as we shall learn
by-and-by. The facts are mentioned here to show that the great offices of the Republic were
open to such a man as Verres. They were in fact more open to such a candidate than they would
be to one less iniquitous--to an honest man or a scrupulous one, or to one partially honest,
or not altogether unscrupulous. If you send a dog into a wood to get truffles, you will endeavor
to find one that will tear up as many truffles as possible. A proconsular robber did not rob
only for himself; he robbed more or less for all Rome. Verres boasted that with his three years
of rule he could bring enough home to bribe all the judges, secure all the best advocates,
and live in splendid opulence for the rest of his life. What a dog he was to send into a wood
for truffles!

To such a condition as this had Rome fallen when the deputies from Sicily came to complain
of their late governor, and to obtain the services of Cicero in seeking for whatever reparation
might be possible. Verres had carried on his plunder during the years 73, 72, 71 B.C. During
this time Cicero had been engaged sedulously as an advocate in Rome. We know the names of some
of the cases in which he was engaged--those, for instance, for Publius Oppius, who, having
been Quæstor in Bithynia, was accused by his Proconsul of having endeavored to rob the soldiers
of their dues. We are told that the poor province suffered greatly under these two officers,
who were always quarrelling as to a division of their plunder. In this case the senior officer
accused the younger, and the younger, by Cicero's aid, was acquitted. Quintilian more than
once refers to the speech made for Oppius. Cicero also defended Varenus, who was charged with
having murdered his brother, and one Caius Mustius, of whom we only know that he was a farmer
of taxes. He was advocate also for Sthenius, a Sicilian, who was accused before the Tribunes
by Verres. We shall hear of Sthenius again among the victims in Sicily. The special charge
in this case was that, having been condemned by Verres as Prætor in Sicily, he had run away
to Rome, which was illegal. He was, however, acquitted. Of these speeches we have only some
short fragments, which have been quoted by authors whose works have come down to us, such as
Quintilian; by which we know, at any rate, that Cicero's writings had been so far carefully
preserved, and that they were commonly read in those days. I will translate here the concluding
words of a short paper written by M. du Rozoir in reference to Cicero's life at this period:
"The assiduity of our orator at the bar had obtained for him a high degree of favor among the
people, because they had seen how strictly he had observed that Cincian law which forbade advocates
to take either money or presents for then pleadings--which law, however, the advocates of the
day generally did not scruple to neglect."[97] It is a good thing to be honest when honesty
is in vogue; but to be honest when honesty is out of fashion is magnificent.

In the affair with Verres, there are two matters to interest the reader--indeed, to instruct
the reader--if the story were sufficiently well told. The iniquity of Verres is the first--which
is of so extravagant a nature as to become farcical by the absurdity of the extent to which
he was not afraid to go in the furtherance of his avarice and lust. As the victims suffered
two thousand years ago, we can allow ourselves to be amused by the inexhaustible fertility
of the man's resources and the singular iniquity of his schemes. Then we are brought face to
face with the barefaced corruption of the Roman judges--a corruption which, however, became
a regular trade, if not ennobled, made, at any rate, aristocratic by the birth, wealth high
names, and senatorial rank of the robbers. Sulla, for certain State purposes--which consisted
in the maintenance of the oligarchy--had transferred the privileges of sitting on the judgment-seat
from the Equites, or Knights, to the Senators. From among the latter a considerable number--thirty,
perhaps, or forty, or even fifty--were appointed to sit with the Prætor to hear criminal cases
of importance, and by their votes, which were recorded on tablets, the accused person was acquitted
or condemned. To be acquitted by the most profuse corruption entailed no disgrace on him who
was tried, and often but little on the judges who tried him. In Cicero's time the practice,
with all its chances, had come to be well understood. The Provincial Governors, with their
Quæstors and lieutenants, were chosen from the high aristocracy, which also supplied the judges.
The judges themselves had been employed, or hoped to be employed, in similar lucrative service.
The leading advocates belonged to the same class. If the proconsular thief, when he had made
his bag, would divide the spoil with some semblance of equity among his brethren, nothing could
be more convenient. The provinces were so large, and the Greek spirit of commercial enterprise
which prevailed in them so lively, that there was room for plunder ample, at any rate, for
a generation or two. The Republic boasted that, in its love of pure justice, it had provided
by certain laws for the protection of its allied subjects against any possible faults of administration
on the part of its own officers. If any injury were done to a province, or a city, or even
to an individual, the province, or city, or individual could bring its grievance to the ivory
chair of the Prætor in Rome and demand redress; and there had been cases not a few in which
a delinquent officer had been condemned to banishment. Much, indeed, was necessary before the
scheme as it was found to exist by Verres could work itself into perfection. Verres felt that
in his time everything had been done for security as well as splendor. He would have all the
great officers of State on his side. The Sicilians, if he could manage the case as he thought
it might be managed, would not have a leg to stand upon. There was many a trick within his
power before they could succeed in making good even their standing before the Prætor. It was
in this condition of things that Cicero bethought himself that he might at one blow break through
the corruption of the judgment-seat, and this he determined to do by subjecting the judges
to the light of public opinion. If Verres could be tried under a bushel, as it were, in the
dark, as many others had been tried, so that little or nothing should be said about the trial
in the city at large, then there would be no danger for the judges. It could only be by shaming
them, by making them understand that Rome would become too hot to hold them, that they could
be brought to give a verdict against the accused. This it was that Cicero determined to effect,
and did effect. And we see throughout the whole pleadings that he was concerned in the matter
not only for the Sicilians, or against Verres. Could something be done for the sake of Rome,
for the sake of the Republic, to redeem the courts of justice from the obloquy which was attached
to them? Might it be possible for a man so to address himself not only to the judgment-seat,
but to all Rome, as to do away with this iniquity once and forever? Could he so fill the minds
of the citizens generally with horror at such proceedings as to make them earnest in demanding
reform? Hortensius, the great advocate of the day, was not only engaged on behalf of Verres,
but he was already chosen as Consul for the next year. Metellus, who was elected Prætor for
the next year, was hot in defence of Verres. Indeed, there were three Metelluses among the
friends of the accused, who had also on his side the Scipio of the day. The aristocracy of
Rome was altogether on the side of Verres, as was natural. But if Cicero might succeed at all
in this which he meditated, the very greatness of his opponents would help him. When it was
known that he was to be pitted against Hortensius as an advocate, and that he intended to defy
Hortensius as the coming Consul, then surely Rome would be awake to the occasion; and if Rome
could be made to awake herself, then would this beautiful scheme of wealth from provincial
plunder be brought to an end.

I will first speak of the work of the judges, and of the attempts made to hinder Cicero in
the business he had undertaken. Then I will endeavor to tell something of the story of Verres
and his doings. The subject divides itself naturally in this way. There are extant seven so-called
orations about Verres, of which the two first apply to the manner in which the case should
be brought before the courts. These two were really spoken, and were so effective that Verres--or
probably Hortensius, on his behalf--was frightened into silence. Verres pleaded guilty, as
we should say, which, in accordance with the usages of the court, he was enabled to do by retiring
and going into voluntary banishment. This he did, sooner than stand his ground and listen to
the narration of his iniquities as it would be given by Cicero in the full speech--the "perpetua
oratio"--which would follow the examination of the witnesses. What the orator said before the
examination of the witnesses was very short. He had to husband his time, as it was a part of
the grand scheme of Hortensius to get adjournment after adjournment because of certain sacred
rites and games, during the celebration of which the courts could not sit. All this was arranged
for in the scheme; but Cicero, in order that he might baffle the schemers, got through his
preliminary work as quickly as possible, saying all that he had to say about the manner of
the trial, about the judges, about the scheme, but dilating very little on the iniquities of
the criminal. But having thus succeeded, having gained his cause in a great measure by the
unexpected quickness of his operations, then he told his story. Then was made that "perpetua
oratio" by which we have learned the extent to which a Roman governor could go on desolating
a people who were intrusted to his protection. This full narration is divided into five parts,
each devoted to a separate class of iniquity. These were never spoken, though they appear in
the form of speeches. They would have been spoken, if required, in answer to the defence made
by Hortensius on behalf of Verres after the hearing of the evidence. But the defence broke
down altogether, in the fashion thus described by Cicero himself. "In that one hour in which
I spoke"--this was the speech which we designate as the Actio Prima contra Verrem, the first
pleading made against Verres, to which we shall come just now--"I took away all hope of bribing
the judges from the accused--from this brazen-faced, rich, dissolute, and abandoned man. On
the first day of the trial, on the mere calling of the names of the witnesses, the people of
Rome were able to perceive that if this criminal were absolved, then there could be no chance
for the Republic. On the second day his friends and advocates had not only lost all hope of
gaining their cause, but all relish for going on with it. The third day so paralyzed the man
himself that he had to bethink himself not what sort of reply he could make, but how he could
escape the necessity of replying by pretending to be ill."[98] It was in this way that the
trial was brought to an end.

But we must go back to the beginning. When an accusation was to be made against some great
Roman of the day on account of illegal public misdoings, as was to be made now against Verres,
the conduct of the case, which would require probably great labor and expense, and would give
scope for the display of oratorical excellence, was regarded as a task in which a young aspirant
to public favor might obtain honor and by which he might make himself known to the people.
It had, therefore, come to pass that there might be two or more accusers anxious to undertake
the work, and to show themselves off as solicitous on behalf of injured innocence, or desirous
of laboring in the service of the Republic. When this was the case, a court of judges was called
upon to decide whether this man or that other was most fit to perform the work in hand. Such
a trial was called "Divinatio," because the judges had to get their lights in the matter as
best they could without the assistance of witnesses--by some process of divination--with the
aid of the gods, as it might be. Cicero's first speech in the matter of Verres is called In
Quintum Cæcilium Divinatio, because one Cæcilius came forward to take the case away from him.
Here was a part of the scheme laid by Hortensius. To deal with Cicero in such a matter would
no doubt be awkward. His purpose, his diligence, his skill, his eloquence, his honesty were
known. There must be a trial. So much was acknowledged; but if the conduct of it could be relegated
to a man who was dishonest, or who had no skill, no fitness, no special desire for success,
then the little scheme could be carried through in that way. So Cæcilius was put forward as
Cicero's competitor, and our first speech is that made by Cicero to prove his own superiority
to that of his rival.

Whether Cæcilius was or was not hired to break down in his assumed duty as accuser, we do not
know. The biographers have agreed to say that such was the case,[99] grounding their assertion,
no doubt, on extreme probability. But I doubt whether there is any evidence as to this. Cicero
himself brings this accusation, but not in that direct manner which he would have used had
he been able to prove it. The Sicilians, at any rate, said that it was so. As to the incompetency
of the man, there was probably no doubt, and it might be quite as serviceable to have an incompetent
as a dishonest accuser. Cæcilius himself had declared that no one could be so fit as himself
for the work. He knew Sicily well, having been born there. He had been Quæstor there with Verres,
and had been able to watch the governor's doings. No doubt there was--or had been in more pious
days--a feeling that a Quæstor should never turn against the Proconsul under whom he had served,
and to whom he had held the position almost of a son.[100] But there was less of that feeling
now than heretofore. Verres had quarrelled with his Quæstor. Oppius was called on to defend
himself against the Proconsul with whom he had served. No one could know the doings of the
governor of a province as well as his own Quæstor; and, therefore, so said Cæcilius, he would
be the preferable accuser. As to his hatred of the man, there could be no doubt as to that.
Everybody knew that they had quarrelled. The purpose, no doubt, was to give some colorable
excuse to the judges for rescuing Verres, the great paymaster, from the fangs of Cicero.

Cicero's speech on the occasion--which, as speeches went in those days, was very short--is
a model of sagacity and courage. He had to plead his own fitness, the unfitness of his adversary,
and the wishes in the matter of the Sicilians. This had to be done with no halting phrases.
It was not simply his object to convince a body of honest men that, with the view of getting
at the truth, he would be the better advocate of the two. We may imagine that there was not
a judge there, not a Roman present, who was not well aware of that before the orator began.
It was needed that the absurdity of the comparison between them should be declared so loudly
that the judges would not dare to betray the Sicilians, and to liberate the accused, by choosing
the incompetent man. When Cicero rose to speak, there was probably not one of them of his own
party, not a Consul, a Prætor, an Ædile, or a Quæstor, not a judge, not a Senator, not a hanger-on
about the courts, but was anxious that Verres with his plunder should escape. Their hope of
living upon the wealth of the provinces hung upon it. But if he could speak winged words--words
that should fly all over Rome, that might fly also among subject nations--then would the judges
not dare to carry out this portion of the scheme.

"When," he says, "I had served as Quæstor in Sicily, and had left the province after such a
fashion that all the Sicilians had a grateful memory of my authority there, though they had
older friends on whom they relied much, they felt that I might be a bulwark to them in their
need. These Sicilians, harassed and robbed, have now come to me in public bodies, and have
implored me to undertake their defence. 'The time has come,' they say, 'not that I should look
after the interest of this or that man, but that I should protect the very life and well-being
of the whole province.' I am inclined by my sense of duty, by the faith which I owe them, by
my pity for them, by the example of all good Romans before me, by the custom of the Republic,
by the old constitution, to undertake this task, not as pertaining to my own interests, but
to those of my close friends."[101] That was his own reason for undertaking the case. Then
he reminds the judges of what the Roman people wished--the people who had felt with dismay
the injury inflicted upon them by Sulla's withdrawal of all power from the Tribunes, and by
the putting the whole authority of the bench into the hands of the Senators. "The Roman people,
much as they have been made to suffer, regret nothing of that they have lost so much as the
strength and majesty of the old judges. It is with the desire of having them back that they
demand for the Tribunes their former power. It is this misconduct of the present judges that
has caused them to ask for another class of men for the judgment-seat. By the fault and to
the shame of the judges of to-day, the Censor's authority, which has hitherto always been regarded
as odious and stern, even that is now requested by the people."[102] Then he goes on to show
that, if justice is intended, this case will be put into the hands of him whom the Sicilians
have themselves chosen. Had the Sicilians said that they were unwilling to trust their affairs
to Cæcilius because they had not known him, but were willing to trust him, Cicero, whom they
did know, would not even that have been reasonable enough of itself? But the Sicilians had
known both of them, had known Cæcilius almost as well as Cicero, and had expressed themselves
clearly. Much as they desired to have Cicero, they were as anxious not to have Cæcilius. Even
had they held their tongues about this, everybody would have known it; but they had been far
from holding their tongues. "Yet you offer yourself to these most unwilling clients," he says,
turning to Cæcilius. "Yet you are ready to plead in a cause that does not belong to you! Yet
you would defend those who would rather have no defender than such a one as you!"[103] Then
he attacks Hortensius, the advocate for Verres. "Let him not think that, if I am to be employed
here, the judges can be bribed without infinite danger to all concerned. In undertaking this
cause of the Sicilians, I undertake also the cause of the people of Rome at large. It is not
only that one wretched sinner should be crushed, which is what the Sicilians want, but that
this terrible injustice should be stopped altogether, in compliance with the wishes of the
people."[104] When we remember how this was spoken, in the presence of those very judges, in
the presence of Hortensius himself, in reliance only on the public opinion which he was to
create by his own words, we cannot but acknowledge that it is very fine.

After that he again turns upon Cæcilius. "Learn from me," he says, "how many things are expected
from him who undertakes the accusation of another. If there be one of those qualities in you,
I will give up to you all that you ask."[105] Cæcilius was probably even now in alliance with
Verres. He himself, when Quæstor, had robbed the people in the collection of the corn dues,
and was unable therefore to include that matter in his accusation. "You can bring no charge
against him on this head, lest it be seen that you were a partner with him in the business."[106]
He ridicules him as to his personal insufficiency. "What, Cæcilius! as to those practices of
the profession without which an action such as this cannot be carried on, do you think that
there is nothing in them? Need there be no skill in the business, no habit of speaking, no
familiarity with the Forum, with the judgment-seats, and the laws?"[107] "I know well how difficult
the ground is. Let me advise you to look into yourself, and to see whether you are able to
do that kind of thing. Have you got voice for it, prudence, memory, wit? Are you able to expose
the life of Verres, as it must be done, to divide it into parts and make everything clear?
In doing all this, though nature should have assisted you"--as it has not at all, is of course
implied--"if from your earliest childhood you had been imbued with letters; if you had learned
Greek at Athens instead of at Lilybæum--Latin in Rome instead of in Sicily--still would it
not be a task beyond your strength to undertake such a case, so widely thought of, to complete
it by your industry, and then to grasp it in your memory; to make it plain by your eloquence,
and to support it with voice and strength sufficient? 'Have I these gifts,' you will ask. Would
that I had! But from my childhood I have done all that I could to attain them."[108]

Cicero makes his points so well that I would fain go through the whole speech, were it not
that a similar reason might induce me to give abridgments of all his speeches. It may not be
that the readers of these orations will always sympathize with the orator in the matter which
he has in hand--though his power over words is so great as to carry the reader with him very
generally, even at this distance of time--but the neatness with which the weapon is used, the
effectiveness of the thrust for the purpose intended, the certainty with which the nail is
hit on the head--never with an expenditure of unnecessary force, but always with the exact
strength wanted for the purpose--these are the characteristics of Cicero's speeches which carry
the reader on with a delight which he will want to share with others, as a man when he has
heard a good story instantly wishes to tell it again. And with Cicero we are charmed by the
modernness, by the tone of to-day, which his language takes. The rapid way in which he runs
from scorn to pity, from pity to anger, from anger to public zeal, and then instantly to irony
and ridicule, implies a lightness of touch which, not unreasonably, surprises us as having
endured for so many hundred years. That poetry should remain to us, even lines so vapid as
some of those in which Ovid sung of love, seems to be more natural, because verses, though
they be light, must have been labored. But these words spoken by Cicero seem almost to ring
in our ears as having come to us direct from a man's lips. We see the anger gathering on the
brow of Hortensius, followed by a look of acknowledged defeat. We see the startled attention
of the judges as they began to feel that in this case they must depart from their intended
purpose. We can understand how Cæcilius cowered, and found consolation in being relieved from
his task. We can fancy how Verres suffered--Verres whom no shame could have touched--when all
his bribes were becoming inefficient under the hands of the orator.

Cicero was chosen for the task, and then the real work began. The work as he did it was certainly
beyond the strength of any ordinary advocate. It was necessary that he should proceed to Sicily
to obtain the evidence which was to be collected over the whole island. He must rate up, too,
all the previous details of the life of this robber. He must be thoroughly prepared to meet
the schemers on every point. He asked for a hundred and ten days for the purpose of getting
up his case, but he took only fifty. We must imagine that, as he became more thoroughly versed
in the intrigues of his adversaries, new lights came upon him. Were he to use the whole time
allotted to him, or even half the time, and then make such an exposition of the criminal as
he would delight to do were he to indulge himself with that "perpetua oratio" of which we hear,
then the trial would be protracted till the coming of certain public games, during which the
courts would not sit. There seem to have been three sets of games in his way--a special set
for this year, to be given by Pompey, which were to last fifteen days; then the Ludi Romani,
which were continued for nine days. Soon after that would come the games in honor of Victory--so
soon that an adjournment over them would be obtained as a matter of course. In this way the
trial would be thrown over into the next year, when Hortensius and one Metellus would be Consuls,
and another Metellus would be the Prætor, controlling the judgment-seats. Glabrio was the Prætor
for this present year. In Glabrio Cicero could put some trust. With Hortensius and the two
Metelluses in power, Verres would be as good as acquitted. Cicero, therefore, had to be on
the alert, so that in this unexpected way, by sacrificing his own grand opportunity for a speech,
he might conquer the schemers. We hear how he went to Sicily in a little boat from an unknown
port, so as to escape the dangers contrived for him by the friends of Verres.[109] If it could
be arranged that the clever advocate should be kidnapped by a pirate, what a pleasant way would
that be of putting an end to these abominable reforms! Let them get rid of Cicero, if only
for a time, and the plunder might still be divided. Against all this he had to provide. When
in Sicily he travelled sometimes on foot, for the sake of caution--never with the retinue to
which he was entitled as a Roman senator. As a Roman senator he might have demanded free entertainment
at any town he entered, at great cost to the town. But from all this he abstained, and hurried
back to Rome with his evidence so quickly that he was able to produce it before the judges,
so as to save the adjournments which he feared.

Verres retired from the trial, pleading guilty, after hearing the evidence. Of the witness,
and of the manner in which they told the story, we have no account. The second speech which
we have--the Divinatio, or speech against Cæcilius, having been the first--is called the Actio
Prima contra Verrem--"the first process against Verres." This is almost entirely confined to
an exhortation to the judges. Cicero had made up his mind to make no speech about Verres till
after the trial should be over. There would not be the requisite time. The evidence he must
bring forward. And he would so appall these corrupt judges that they should not dare to acquit
the accused. This Actio Prima contains the words in which he did appall the judges. As we read
them, we pity the judges. There were fourteen, whose names we know. That there may have been
many more is probable. There was the Prætor Urbanus of the day, Glabrio. With him were Metellus,
one of the Prætors for the next year, and Cæsonius, who, with Cicero himself, was Ædile designate.
There were three Tribunes of the people and two military Tribunes. There was a Servilius, a
Catulus, a Marcellus. Whom among these he suspected can hardly say. Certainly he suspected
Metellus. To Servilius[110] he paid an ornate compliment in one of the written orations published
after the trial was over, from whence we may suppose that he was well inclined toward him.
Of Glabrio he spoke well. The body, as a body, was of such a nature that he found it necessary
to appall them. It is thus that he begins: "Not by human wisdom, O ye judges, but by chance,
and by the aid, as it were, of the gods themselves, an event has come to pass by which the
hatred now felt for your order, and the infamy attached to the judgment seat, may be appeased;
for an opinion has gone abroad, disgraceful to the Republic, full of danger to yourselves--which
is in the mouths of all men not only here in Rome but through all nations--that by these courts
as they are now constituted, a man, if he be only rich enough, will never be condemned, though
he be ever so guilty." What an exordium with which to begin a forensic pleading before a bench
of judges composed of Prætors, Ædiles, and coming Consuls! And this at a time, too, when men's
minds were still full of Sulla's power; when some were thinking that they too might be Sullas;
while the idea was still strong that a few nobles ought to rule the Roman Empire for their
own advantage and their own luxury! What words to address to a Metellus, a Catulus, and a Marcellus!
I have brought before you such a wretch, he goes on to say, that by a just judgment upon him
you can recover your favor with the people of Rome, and your credit with other nations. "This
is a trial in which you, indeed, will have to judge this man who is accused, but in which also
the Roman people will have to judge you. By what is done to him will be determined whether
a man who is guilty, and at the same time rich, can possibly be condemned in Rome.[111]If the
matter goes amiss here, all men will declare, not that better men should be selected out of
your order, which would be impossible, but that another order of citizens must be named from
which to select the judges."[112] This short speech was made. The witnesses were examined during
nine days; then Hortensius, with hardly a struggle at a reply, gave way, and Verres stood condemned
by his own verdict.

When the trial was over, and Verres had consented to go into exile, and to pay whatever fine
was demanded, the "perpetua oratio" which Cicero thought good to make on the matter was published
to the world. It is written as though it was to have been spoken, with counterfeit tricks of
oratory--with some tricks so well done in the first part of it as to have made one think that,
when these special words were prepared, he must have intended to speak them. It has been agreed,
however, that such was not the case. It consists of a narration of the villainies of Verres,
and is divided into what have been called five different speeches, to which the following appellations
are given: De Prætura Urbana, in which we are told what Verres did when he was city Prætor,
and very many things also which he did before he came to that office, De Jurisdictione Siciliensi,
in which is described his conduct as a Roman magistrate on the island; De Re Frumentaria, setting
forth the abomination of his exactions in regard to the corn tax; De Signis, detailing the
robberies he perpetuated in regard to statues and other ornaments; and De Suppliciis, giving
an account of the murders he committed and the tortures he inflicted. A question is sometimes
mooted in conversation whether or no the general happiness of the world has been improved by
increasing civilization When the reader finds from these stories, as told by a leading Roman
of the day, how men were treated under the Roman oligarchy--not only Greek allies but Romans
also--I think he will be inclined to answer the question in favour of civilization.

I can only give a few of the many little histories which have been preserved for us in this
Actio Secunda; but perhaps these few may suffice to show how a great Roman officer could demean
himself in his government. Of the doings of Verres before he went to Sicily I will select two.
It became his duty on one occasion--a job which he seems to have sought for purpose of rapine--to
go to Lampsacus, a town in Asia, as lieutenant, or legate, for Dolabella, who then had command
in Asia. Lampsacus was on the Hellespont, an allied town of specially good repute. Here he
is put up as a guest, with all the honors of a Roman officer, at the house of a citizen named
Janitor. But he heard that another citizen, one Philodamus, had a beautiful daughter--an article
with which we must suppose that Janitor was not equally well supplied. Verres, determined to
get at the lady, orders that his creature Rubrius shall be quartered at the house of Philodamus.
Philodamus, who from his rank was entitled to be burdened only with the presence of leading
Romans, grumbles at this; but, having grumbled, consents, and having consented, does the best
to make his house comfortable. He gives a great supper, at which the Romans eat and drink,
and purposely create a tumult. Verres, we understand, was not there. The intention is that
the girl shall be carried away and brought to him. In the middle of their cups the father is
desired to produce his daughter; but this he refuses to do. Rubrius then orders the doors to
be closed, and proceeds to ransack the house. Philodamus, who will not stand this, fetches
his son, and calls his fellow-citizens around him. Rubrius succeeds in pouring boiling water
over his host, but in the row the Romans get the worst of it. At last one of Verres's lictors--absolutely
a Roman lictor--is killed, and the woman is not carried off. The man at least bore the outward
signs of a lictor, but, according to Cicero, was in the pay of Verres as his pimp.

So far Verres fails; and the reader, rejoicing at the courage of the father who could protect
his own house even against Romans, begins to feel some surprise that this case should have
been selected. So far the lieutenant had not done the mischief he had intended, but he soon
avenges his failure. He induces Dolabella, his chief, to have Philodamus and his son carried
off to Laodicea, and there tried before Nero, the then Proconsul, for killing the sham lictor.
They are tried at Laodicea before Nero, Verres himself sitting as one of the judges, and are
condemned. Then in the market place of the town, in the presence of each other, the father
and son are beheaded--a thing, as Cicero says, very sad for all Asia to behold. All this had
been done some years ago; and, nevertheless, Verres had been chosen Prætor, and sent to Sicily
to govern the Sicilians.

When Verres was Prætor at Rome--the year before he was sent to Sicily--it became his duty,
or rather privilege, as he found it, to see that a certain temple of Castor in the city was
given up in proper condition by the executors of a defunct citizen who had taken a contract
for keeping it in repair. This man, whose name had been Junius, left a son, who was a Junius
also under age, with a large fortune in charge of various trustees, tutors, as they were called,
whose duty it was to protect the heir's interests. Verres, knowing of old that no property
was so easily preyed on as that of a minor, sees at once that something may be done with the
temple of Castor. The heir took oath, and to the extent of his property he was bound to keep
the edifice in good repair. But Verres, when he made an inspection, finds everything to be
in more than usually good order. There is not a scratch on the roof of which he can make use.
Nothing has been allowed to go astray. Then "one of his dogs"--for he had boasted to his friend
Ligur that he always went about with dogs to search out his game for him--suggested that some
of the columns were out of the perpendicular. Verres does not know what this means; but the
dog explains. All columns are, in fact, by strict measurement, more or less out of the perpendicular,
as we are told that all eyes squint a little, though we do not see that they squint. But as
columns ought to be perpendicular, here was a matter on which he might go to work. He does
go to work. The trustees knowing their man--knowing also that in the present condition of Rome
it was impossible to escape from an unjust Prætor without paying largely--went to his mistress
and endeavored to settle the matter with her. Here we have an amusing picture of the way in
which the affairs of the city were carried on in that lady's establishment; how she had her
levee, took her bribes, and drove a lucrative trade. Doing, however, no good with her, the
trustees settled with an agent to pay Verres two hundred thousand sesterces to drop the affair.
This was something under £2000. But Verres repudiated the arrangement with scorn. He could
do much better than that with such a temple and such a minor. He puts the repairs up to auction;
and refusing a bid from the trustees themselves--the very persons who are the most interested
in getting the work done, if there were work to do--has it knocked down to himself for five
hundred and sixty thousand sesterces, or about £5000.[113] Then we are told how he had the
pretended work done by the putting up of a rough crane. No real work is done, no new stones
are brought, no money is spent. That is the way in which Verres filled his office as Prætor
Urbanus; but it does not seem that any public notice is taken of his iniquities as long as
he confined himself to little jobs such as this.

Then we come to the affairs of Sicily--and the long list of robberies is commenced by which
that province was made desolate. It seems that nothing gave so grand a scope to the greed of
a public functionary who was at the same time governor and judge as disputed wills. It was
not necessary that any of the persons concerned should dispute the will among them. Given the
facts that a man had died and left property behind him, then Verres would find means to drag
the heir into court, and either frighten him into payment of a bribe or else rob him of his
inheritance. Before he left Rome for the province he heard that a large fortune had been left
to one Dio on condition that he should put up certain statues in the market-place.[114] It
was not uncommon for a man to desire the reputation of adorning his own city, but to choose
that the expense should be borne by his heir rather than by himself. Failing to put up the
statues, the heir was required to pay a fine to Venus Erycina--to enrich, that is, the worship
of that goddess, who had a favorite temple under Mount Eryx. The statues had been duly erected.
But, nevertheless, here there was an opening. So Verres goes to work, and in the name of Venus
brings an action against Dio. The verdict is given, not in favor of Venus but in favor of Verres.

This manner of paying honor to the gods, and especially to Venus, was common in Sicily. Two
sons[115] received a fortune from their father, with a condition that, if some special thing
were not done, a fine should be paid to Venus. The man had been dead twenty years ago. But
"the dogs" which the Prætor kept were very sharp, and, distant as was the time, found out the
clause. Action is taken against the two sons, who indeed gain their case; but they gain it
by a bribe so enormous that they are ruined men. There was one Heraclius,[116] the son of Hiero,
a nobleman of Syracuse, who received a legacy amounting to 3,000,000 sesterces--we will say
£24,000--from a relative, also a Heraclius. He had, too, a house full of handsome silver plate,
silk and hangings, and valuable slaves. A man, "Dives equom, dives pictai vestis et auri."
Verres heard, of course. He had by this time taken some Sicilian dogs into his service, men
of Syracuse, and had learned from them that there was a clause in the will of the elder Heraclius
that certain statues should be put up in the gymnasium of the city. They undertake to bring
forward servants of the gymnasium who should say that the statues were never properly erected.
Cicero tells us how Verres went to work, now in this court, now in that, breaking all the laws
as to Sicilian jurisdiction, but still proceeding under the pretence of law, till he got everything
out of the wretch--not only all the legacies from Heraclius, but every shilling, and every
article left to the man by his father. There is a pretence of giving some of the money to the
town of Syracuse; but for himself he takes all the valuables, the Corinthian vases, the purple
hangings, what slaves he chooses. Then everything else is sold by auction. How he divided the
spoil with the Syracusans, and then quarrelled with them, and how he lied as to the share taken
by himself, will all be found in Cicero's narrative. Heraclius was of course ruined. For the
stories of Epicrates and Sopater I must refer the reader to the oration. In that of Sopater
there is the peculiarity that Verres managed to get paid by everybody all round.

The story of Sthenius is so interesting that I cannot pass it by. Sthenius was a man of wealth
and high standing, living at Therma in Sicily, with whom Verres often took up his abode; for,
as governor, he travelled much about the island, always in pursuit of plunder. Sthenius had
had his house full of beautiful things. Of all these Verres possessed himself--some by begging,
some by demanding, and some by absolute robbery. Sthenius, grieved as he was to find himself
pillaged, bore all this. The man was Roman Prætor, and injuries such as these had to be endured.
At Therma, however, in the public place of the city, there were some beautiful statues. For
these Verres longed, and desired his host to get them for him. Sthenius declared that this
was impossible. The statues had, under peculiar circumstances, been recovered by Scipio Africanus
from Carthage, and been restored by the Roman General to the Sicilians, from whom they had
been taken, and had been erected at Therma. There was a peculiarly beautiful figure of Stesichorus,
the poet, as an old man bent double, with a book in his hand--a very glorious work of art;
and there was a goat--in bronze probably--as to which Cicero is at the pains of telling us
that even he, unskilled as he was in such matters, could see its charms. No one had sharper
eyes for such pretty ornaments than Cicero, or a more decided taste for them. But as Hortensius,
his rival and opponent in this case, had taken a marble sphinx from Verres, he thought it expedient
to show how superior he was to such matters. There was probably something of joke in this,
as his predilections would no doubt be known to those he was addressing.[117]

In the matter Sthenius was incorruptible, and not even the Prætor could carry them away without
his aid. Cicero, who is very warm in praise of Sthenius, declares that "here at last Verres
had found one town, the only one in the world, from which he was unable to carry away something
of the public property by force, or stealth, or open command, or favor."[118] The governor
was so disgusted with this that he abandoned Sthenius, leaving the house which he had plundered
of everything, and betook himself to that of one Agathinus, who had a beautiful daughter, Callidama,
who, with her husband, Dorotheus, lived with her father They were enemies of Sthenius, and
we are given to understand that Verres ingratiated himself with them partly for the sake of
Callidama, who seems very quickly to have been given up to him,[119] and partly that he might
instigate them to bring actions against Sthenius. This is done with great success; so that
Sthenius is forced to run away, and betake himself, winter as it was, across the seas to Rome.
It has already been told that when he was at Rome an action was brought against him by Verres
for having run away when he was under judgment, in which Cicero defended him, and in which
he was acquitted. In the teeth of his acquittal, Verres persecuted the man by every form of
law which came to his hands as Prætor, but always in opposition to the law. There is an audacity
about the man's proceedings, in his open contempt of the laws which it was his special duty
to carry out, making us feel how confident he was that he could carry everything before him
in Rome by means of his money. By robbery and concealing his robberies, by selling his judgments
in such a way that he should maintain some reticence by ordinary precaution, he might have
made much money, as other governors had done. But he resolved that it would pay him better
to rob everywhere openly, and then, when the day of reckoning came, to buy the judges wholesale.
As to shame at such doings, there was no such feelings left among Romans.

Before he comes to the story of Sthenius, Cicero makes a grandly ironical appeal to the bench
before him: "Yes, O judges, keep this man; keep him in the State! Spare him, preserve him so
that he, too, may sit with us as a judge here so that he, too, may, with impartiality, advise
us, as a Senator, what may be best for us as to peace and war! Not that we need trouble ourselves
as to his senatorial duties. His authority would be nothing. When would he dare, or when would
he care, to come among us? Unless it might be in the idle month of February, when would a man
so idle, so debauched, show himself in the Senate-house? Let him come and show himself. Let
him advise us to attack the Cretans; to pronounce the Greeks of Byzantium free; to declare
Ptolemy King.[120] Let him speak and vote as Hortensius may direct. This will have but little
effect upon our lives or our property. But beyond this there is something we must look to;
something that would be distrusted; something that every good man has to fear! If by chance
this man should escape out of our hands, he would have to sit there upon that bench and be
a judge. He would be called upon to pronounce on the lives of a Roman citizen. He would be
the right-hand officer in the army of this man here,[121] of this man who is striving to be
the lord and ruler of our judgment-seats. The people of Rome at least refuse this! This at
least cannot be endured!"

The third of these narratives tells us how Verres managed in his province that provision of
corn for the use of Rome, the collection of which made the possession of Sicily so important
to the Romans. He begins with telling his readers--as he does too frequently--how great and
peculiar is the task he has undertaken; and he uses an argument of which we cannot but admit
the truth, though we doubt whether any modern advocate would dare to put it forward. We must
remember, however, that Romans were not accustomed to be shamefaced in praising themselves.
What Cicero says of himself all others said also of themselves; only Cicero could say it better
than others. He reminds us that he who accuses another of any crime is bound to be especially
free from that crime himself. "Would you charge any one as a thief? you must be clear from
any suspicion of even desiring another man's property. Have you brought a man up for malice
or cruelty? take care that you be not found hard-hearted. Have you called a man a seducer or
an adulterer? be sure that your own life shows no trace of such vices. Whatever you would punish
in another, that you must avoid yourself. A public accuser would be intolerable, or even a
caviller, who should inveigh against sins for which he himself is called in question. But in
this man I find all wickednesses combined. There is no lust, no iniquity, no shamelessness
of which his life does not supply with ample evidence." The nature of the difficulty to which
Cicero is thus subjected is visible enough. As Verres is all that is bad, so must he, as accuser,
be all that is good; which is more, we should say, than any man would choose to declare of
himself! But he is equal to the occasion. "In regard to this man, O judges, I lay down for
myself the law as I have stated it. I must so live that I must clearly seem to be, and always
have been, the very opposite of this man, not only in my words and deeds, but as to that arrogance
and impudence which you see in him." Then he shows how opposite he is to Verres at any rate,
in impudence! "I am not sorry to see," he goes on to say, "that that life which has always
been the life of my own choosing, has now been made a necessity to me by the law which I have
laid down for myself."[122] Mr. Pecksniff spoke of himself in the same way, but no one, I think,
believed him. Cicero probably was believed. But the most wonderful thing is, that his manner
of life justified what he said of himself. When others of his own order were abandoned to lust,
iniquity, and shamelessness, he lived in purity, with clean hands, doing good as far as was
in his power to those around him. A laugh will be raised at his expense in regard to that assertion
of his that, even in the matter of arrogance, his conduct should be the opposite of that of
Verres. But this will come because I have failed to interpret accurately the meaning of those
words, "oris oculorumque illa contumacia ac superbia quam videtis." Verres, as we can understand,
had carried himself during the trial with a bragging, brazen, bold face, determined to show
no shame as to his own doings. It is in this, which was a matter of manner and taste, that
Cicero declares that he will be the man's opposite as well as in conduct. As to the ordinary
boastings, by which it has to be acknowledged that Cicero sometimes disgusts his readers, it
will be impossible for us to receive a just idea of his character without remembering that
it was the custom of a Roman to boast. We wait to have good things said of us, or are supposed
to wait. The Roman said them of himself. The "veni, vidi, vici" was the ordinary mode of expression
in those times, and in earlier times among the Greeks.[123] This is distasteful to us; and
it will probably be distasteful to those who come after us, two or three hundred years hence,
that this or that British statesman should have made himself an Earl or a Knight of the Garter.
Now it is thought by many to be proper enough. It will shock men in future days that great
peers or rich commoners should have bargained for ribbons and lieutenancies and titles. Now
it is the way of the time. Though virtue and vice may be said to remain the same from all time
to all time, the latitudes allowed and the deviations encouraged in this or the other age must
be considered before the character of a man can be discovered. The boastings of Cicero have
been preserved for us. We have to bethink ourselves that his words are 2000 years old. There
is such a touch of humanity in them, such a feeling of latter-day civilization and almost of
Christianity, that we are apt to condemn what remains in them of paganism, as though they were
uttered yesterday. When we come to the coarseness of his attacks, his descriptions of Piso
by-and-by, his abuse of Gabinius, and his invectives against Antony; when we read his altered
opinions, as shown in the period of Cæsar's dominion, his flattery of Cæsar when in power,
and his exultations when Cæsar has been killed; when we find that he could be coarse in his
language and a bully, and servile--for it has all to be admitted--we have to reflect under
what circumstances, under what surroundings, and for what object were used the words which
displease us. Speaking before the full court at this trial, he dared to say he knew how to
live as a man and to carry himself as a gentleman. As men and gentlemen were then, he was justified.

The description of Verres's rapacity in regard to the corn tax is long and complex, and need
hardly be followed at length, unless by those who desire to know how the iniquity of such a
one could make the most of an imposition which was in itself very bad, and pile up the burden
till the poor province was unable to bear it. There were three kinds of imposition as to corn.
The first, called the "decumanum," was simply a tithe.

The producers through the island had to furnish Rome with a tenth of their produce, and it
was the Prætor's duty, or rather that of the Quæstor under the Prætor, to see that the tithe
was collected. How Verres saw to this himself, and how he treated the Sicilian husbandmen in
regard to the tithe, is so told that we are obliged to give the man credit for an infinite
fertility of resources. Then there is the "emptum," or corn bought for the use of Rome, of
which there were two kinds. A second tithe had to be furnished at a price fixed by the Roman
Senate, which price was considered to be below that of its real value, and then 800,000 bushels
were purchased, or nominally purchased, at a price which was also fixed by the Senate, but
which was nearer to the real value. Three sesterces a bushel for the first and four for the
last, were the prices fixed at this time. For making these payments vast sums of money were
remitted to Verres, of which the accounts were so kept that it was hard to say whether any
found its way into the hands of the farmers who undoubtedly furnished the corn. The third corn
tax was the "æstimatum." This consisted of a certain fixed quantity which had to be supplied
to the Prætor for the use of his governmental establishment--to be supplied either in grain
or in money. What such a one as Verres would do with his, the reader may conceive.

All this was of vital importance to Rome. Sicily and Africa were the granaries from which Rome
was supplied with its bread. To get supplies from a province was necessary. Rich men have servants
in order that they may live at ease themselves. So it was with the Romans to whom the provinces
acted as servants. It was necessary to have a sharp agent, some Proconsul or Proprætor; but
when there came one so sharp as Verres, all power of recreating supplies would for a time be
destroyed. Even Cicero boasted that in a time of great scarcity, he, being then Quæstor in
Sicily, had sent extraordinary store of corn over to the city.[124] But he had so done it as
to satisfy all who were concerned.

Verres, in his corn dealings with the Sicilians, had a certain friend, companion, and minister--one
of his favorite dogs, perhaps we may call him--named Apronius, whom Cicero specially describes.
The description I must give, because it is so powerful; because it shows us how one man could
in those days speak of another in open court before all the world; because it affords us an
instance of the intensity of hatred which the orator could throw into his words; but I must
hide it in the original language, as I could not translate it without offence.[125]

Then we have a book devoted to the special pillage of statues and other ornaments, which, for
the genius displayed in story-telling, is perhaps of all the Verrine orations the most amusing.
The Greek people had become in a peculiar way devoted to what we generally call Art. We are
much given to the collecting of pictures, china, bronze, and marbles, partly from love of such
things, partly from pride in ornamenting our houses so as to excite the admiration of others,
partly from a feeling that money so invested is not badly placed with a view to future returns.
All these feelings operated with the Greeks to a much greater extent. Investments in consols
and railway shares were not open to them. Money they used to lend at usury, no doubt, but with
a great chance of losing it. The Greek colonists were industrious, were covetous, and prudent.
From this it had come to pass that, as they made their way about the world--to the cities which
they established round the Mediterranean--they collected in their new homes great store of
ornamental wealth. This was done with much profusion at Syracuse, a Greek city in Sicily, and
spread from them over the whole island. The temples of the gods were filled with the works
of the great Greek artists, and every man of note had his gallery. That Verres, hog as he is
described to have been, had a passion for these things, is manifest to us. He came to his death
at last in defence of some favorite images. He had returned to Rome by means of Cæsar's amnesty,
and Marc Antony had him murdered because he would not surrender some treasures of art. When
we read the De Signis--About Statues--we are led to imagine that the search after these things
was the chief object of the man throughout his three years of office--as we have before been
made to suppose that all his mind and time had been devoted to the cheating of the Sicilians
in the matter of corn. But though Verres loved these trinkets, it was not altogether for himself
that he sought them. Only one third of his plunder was for himself. Senators, judges, advocates,
Consuls, and Prætors could be bribed with articles of vertu as well as with money.

There are eleven separate stories told of these robberies. I will give very shortly the details
of one or two. There was one Marcus Heius, a rich citizen of Messana, in whose house Verres
took great delight. Messana itself was very useful to him, and the Mamertines, as the people
of Messana were called were his best friends in all Sicily: for he made Messana the depot of
his plunder, and there he caused to be built at the expense of the Government an enormous ship
called the Cybea,[126] in which his treasures were carried out of the island. He therefore
specially favored Messana, and the district of Messana was supposed to have been scourged by
him with lighter rods than those used elsewhere in Sicily. But this man Heius had a chapel,
very sacred, in which were preserved four specially beautiful images. There was a Cupid by
Praxiteles, and a bronze Hercules by Myro, and two Can[oe]phræ by Polycletus. These were treasures
which all the world came to see, and which were open to be seen by all the world. These Verres
took away, and caused accounts to be forged in which it was made to appear that he had bought
them for trifling sums. It seems that some forced assent had been obtained from Heius as to
the transaction. Now there was a plan in vogue for making things pleasant for a Proconsul retiring
from his government, in accordance with which a deputation would proceed from the province
to Rome to declare how well and kindly the Proconsul had behaved in his government. The allies,
even when they had been, as it were, skinned alive by their governor, were constrained to send
their deputations. Deputations were got up in Sicily from Messana and Syracuse, and with the
others from Messana came this man Heius. Heius did not wish to tell about his statues; but
he was asked questions, and was forced to answer. Cicero informs us how it all took place.
"He was a man," he said--this is what Cicero tells us that Heius said--"who was well esteemed
in his own country, and would wish you"--you judges--"to think well of his religious spirit
and of his personal dignity. He had come here to praise Verres because he had been required
to do so by his fellow-citizens. He, however, had never kept things for sale in his own house;
and had he been left to himself, nothing would have induced him to part with the sacred images
which had been left to him by his ancestors as the ornaments of his own chapel.[127] Nevertheless,
he had come to praise Verres, and would have held his tongue had it been possible."

Cicero finishes his catalogue by telling us of the manifold robberies committed by Verres in
Syracuse, especially from the temples of the gods; and he begins his account of the Syracusan
iniquities by drawing a parallel between two Romans whose names were well known in that city:
Marcellus, who had besieged it as an enemy and taken it, and Verres, who had been sent to govern
it in peace. Marcellus had saved the lives of the Syracusans; Verres had made the Forum to
run with their blood. The harbor which had held its own against Marcellus, as we may read in
our Livy, had been wilfully opened by Verres to Cilician pirates. This Syracuse which had been
so carefully preserved by its Roman conqueror, the most beautiful of all the Greek cities on
the face of the earth--so beautiful that Marcellus had spared to it all its public ornaments--had
been stripped bare by Verres. There was the temple of Minerva from which he had taken all the
pictures. There were doors to this temple of such beauty that books had been written about
them. He stripped the ivory ornaments from them, and the golden balls with which they had been
made splendid. He tore off from them the head of the Gorgon and carried it away, leaving them
to be rude doors, Goth that he was!

And he took the Sappho from the Prytaneum, the work of Silanion! a thing of such beauty that
no other man can have the like of it in his own private house; yet Verres has it--a man hardly
fit to carry such a work of art as a burden, not possess it as a treasure of his own. "What,
too!" he says, "have you not stolen Pæan from the temple of Æsculapius--a statue so remarkable
for its beauty, so well-known for the worship attached to it, that all the world has been wont
to visit it? What! has not the image of Aristæus been taken by you from the temple of Bacchus?
Have you not even stolen the statue of Jupiter Imperator, so sacred in the eyes of all men--that
Jupiter which the Greeks call Ourios? You have not hesitated to rob the temple of Proserpine
of the lovely head in Parian marble."[128] Then Cicero speaks of the worship due to all these
gods as though he himself believed in their godhead. As he had begun this chapter with the
Mamertines of Messana, so he ends it with an address to them. "It is well that you should come,
you alone out of all the provinces, and praise Verres here in Rome. But what can you say for
him? Was it not your duty to have built a ship for the Republic? You have built none such,
but have constructed a huge private transport-vessel for Verres. Have you not been exempted
from your tax on corn? Have you not been exempted in regard to naval and military recruits?
Have you not been the receptacle of all his stolen goods? They will have to confess, these
Mamertines, that many a ship laden with his spoils has left their port, and especially this
huge transport-ship which they built for him!"

In the De Suppliciis--the treatise about punishments, as the last division of this process
is called--Cicero tells the world how Verres exacted vengeance from those who were opposed
to him, and with what horrid cruelty he raged against his enemies. The stories, indeed, are
very dreadful. It is harrowing to think that so evil a man should have been invested with powers
so great for so bad a purpose. But that which strikes a modern reader most is the sanctity
attached to the name of a Roman citizen, and the audacity with which the Roman Proconsul disregarded
that sanctity. "Cives Romanus" is Cicero's cry from the beginning to the end. No doubt he is
addressing himself to Romans, and seeking popularity, as he always did. But, nevertheless,
the demands made upon the outside world at large by the glory of that appellation are astonishing,
even when put forward on such an occasion as this. One Gavius escapes from a prison in Syracuse,
and, making his way to Messana, foolishly boasts that he would be soon over in Italy, out of
the way of Prætor Verres and his cruelties. Verres, unfortunately, is in Messana, and soon
hears from some of his friends, the Mamertines, what Gavius was saying. He at once orders Gavius
to be flogged in public. "Cives Romanus sum!" exclaims Gavius, no doubt truly. It suits Verres
to pretend to disbelieve this, and to declare that the man is a runagate slave. The poor wretch
still cries "Cives Romanus!" and trusts alone to that appeal. Whereupon Verres puts up a cross
on the sea-shore, and has the man crucified in sight of Italy, so that he shall be able to
see the country of which he is so proud. Whether he had done anything to deserve crucifixion,
or flogging, or punishment at all, we are not told. The accusation against Verres is not for
crucifying the man, but for crucifying the Roman. It is on this occasion that Cicero uses the
words which have become proverbial as to the iniquity of this proceeding.[129] During the telling
of this story he explains this doctrine, claiming for the Roman citizen, all the world over,
some such protection as freemasons are supposed to give each other, whether known or unknown.
"Men of straw," he says, "of no special birth, go about the world. They resort to places they
have never seen before, where they know none, and none know them. Here, trusting to their claim
solely, they feel themselves to be safe--not only where our magistrates are to be found, who
are bound both by law and by opinion, not only among other Roman citizens who speak their language
and follow the same customs, but abroad, over the whole world, they find this to be sufficient
protection."[130] Then he goes on to say that if any Prætor may at his will put aside this
sanctity, all the provinces, all the kingdoms, all the free states, all the world abroad, will
very soon lose the feeling.

But the most remarkable story is that told of a certain pirate captain. Verres had been remiss
in regard to the pirates--very cowardly, indeed, if we are to believe Cicero. Piracy in the
Mediterranean was at that time a terrible drawback to trade--that piracy that a year or two
afterward Pompey was effectual in destroying. A governor in Sicily had, among other special
duties, to keep a sharp lookout for the pirates. This Verres omitted so entirely that these
scourges of the sea soon learned that they might do almost as they pleased on the Sicilian
coasts. But it came to pass that on one day a pirate vessel fell by accident into the hands
of the governor's officers. It was not taken, Cicero says, but was so overladen that it was
picked up almost sinking.[131] It was found to be full of fine, handsome men, of silver both
plated and coined, and precious stuffs. Though not "taken," it was "found," and carried into
Syracuse. Syracuse is full of the news, and the first demand is that the pirates, according
to Roman custom, shall all be killed. But this does not suit Verres. The slave-markets of the
Roman Empire are open, and there are men among the pirates whom it will suit him better to
sell than to kill. There are six musicians, "symphoniacos homines," whom he sends as a present
to a friend at Rome. But the people of Syracuse are very much in earnest. They are too sharp
to be put off with pretences, and they count the number of slaughtered pirates. There are only
some useless, weak, ugly old fellows beheaded from day to day; and being well aware how many
men it must have taken to row and manage such a vessel, they demand that the full crew shall
be brought to the block. "There is nothing in victory more sweet," says Cicero, "no evidence
more sure, than to see those whom you did fear, but have now got the better of, brought out
to tortures or death."[132] Verres is so much frightened by the resolution of the citizens
that he does not dare to neglect their wishes. There are lying in the prisons of Syracuse a
lot of prisoners, Roman citizens, of whom he is glad to rid himself. He has them brought out,
with their heads wrapped up so that they shall not be known, and has them beheaded instead
of the pirates! A great deal is said, too, about the pirate captain--the arch-pirate, as he
is called. There seems to have been some money dealings personally between him and Verres,
on account of which Verres kept him hidden. At any rate, the arch-pirate was saved. "In such
a manner this celebrated victory is managed.[133] The pirate ship is taken, and the chief pirate
is allowed to escape. The musicians are sent to Rome. The men who are good-looking and young
are taken to the Prætor's house. As many Roman citizens as will fill their places are carried
out as public enemies, and are tortured and killed! All the gold and silver and precious stuffs
are made a prize of by Verres!"

Such are the accusations brought against this wonderful man--the truth of which has, I think,
on the whole been admitted. The picture of Roman life which it displays is wonderful, that
such atrocities should have been possible; and equally so of provincial subjection, that such
cruelties should have been endured. But in it all the greatest wonder is that there should
have risen up a man so determined to take the part of the weak against the strong with no reward
before him, apparently with no other prospect than that of making himself odious to the party
to which he belonged. Cicero was not a Gracchus, anxious to throw himself into the arms of
the people; he was an oligarch by conviction, born to oligarchy, bred to it, convinced that
by it alone could the Roman Republic be preserved. But he was convinced also that unless these
oligarchs could be made to do their duty the Republic could not stand. Therefore it was that
he dared to defy his own brethren, and to make the acquittal of Verres an impossibility. I
should be inclined to think that the day on which Hortensius threw up the sponge, and Verres
submitted to banishment and fine, was the happiest in the orator's life.

Verres was made to pay a fine which was very insufficient for his crimes, and then to retire
into comfortable exile. From this he returned to Rome when the Roman exiles were amnestied,
and was shortly afterward murdered by Antony, as has been told before.

CHAPTER VII.

CICERO AS ÆDILE AND PRÆTOR.

[Sidenote: B.C. 69, ætat. 38.]

The year after the trial of Verres was that of Cicero's Ædileship. We know but little of him
in the performance of the duties of this office, but we may gather that he performed them to
the satisfaction of the people. He did not spend much money for their amusements, although
it was the custom of Ædiles to ruin themselves in seeking popularity after this fashion; and
yet when, two years afterward, he solicited the Prætorship from the people, he was three times
elected as first Prætor in all the comitia--three separate elections having been rendered necessary
by certain irregularities and factious difficulties. To all the offices, one after another,
he was elected in his first year--the first year possible in accordance with his age--and was
elected first in honor, the first as Prætor, and then the first as Consul. This, no doubt,
was partly due to his compliance with those rules for canvassing which his brother Quintus
is said to have drawn out, and which I have quoted; but it proves also the trust which was
felt in him by the people. The candidates, for the most part, were the candidates for the aristocracy.
They were put forward with the idea that thus might the aristocratic rule of Rome be best maintained.
Their elections were carried on by bribery, and the people were for the most part indifferent
to the proceeding. Whether it might be a Verres, or an Antony, or a Hortensius, they took the
money that was going. They allowed themselves to be delighted with the games, and they did
as they were bid. But every now and then there came up a name which stirred them, and they
went to the voting pens--ovilia--with a purpose of their own. When such a candidate came forward,
he was sure to be first. Such had been Marius, and such had been the great Pompey, and such
was Cicero. The two former were men successful in war, who gained the voices of the people
by their victories. Cicero gained them by what he did inside the city. He could afford not
to run into debt and ruin himself during his Ædileship, as had been common with Ædiles, because
he was able to achieve his popularity in another way. It was the chief duty of the Ædiles to
look after the town generally--to see to the temples of the gods, to take care that houses
did not tumble down, to look to the cleansing of the streets, and to the supply of water. The
markets were under them, and the police, and the recurrent festivals. An active man, with common-sense,
such as was Cicero, no doubt did his duty as Ædile well.

