Picture a grey mass of rock rising up abruptly above the desert, bare of tree or shrub; scattered
over its irregular top, blocks of two and three story stone and dried brick houses, for the
most part square in outward shape, with steps on the outside built into the wall, or heavy
ladders with long projecting ends resting upon platforms built in front of small square topped
doorways, the roofs flat and covered with dried grasses. No stairways within these houses permitting
passage from lower to upper rooms, and all built after century old architectural plans, by
the hands of women. Between the blocks of irregular houses picture rectangular slabs of stone
rising two feet above the ground, containing an opening in the middle out of which project
high in the air the two ends of a hard-wood ladder, the rungs of which have been worn almost
through by the passage of naked feet that have pressed up and down on these bits of wood for
scores of years. It is not easy to imagine the real fact that down in those upstairs cellars
the men of Oraibi lead their club life, weaving down there in the dim light that filters past
the ladder, the rugs and belts and other material mysteriously used for religious ceremonial.
And down in the snake priests' kiva, just over yonder, the venomous reptiles have been kept
for weeks past in the sacrificial clay jars, out of which they have crawled during the rites
of their purification and hung in twisted hissing knots out of the crevices between the sides
of the kiva walls, from which places the brown hands of old Thisdoa, Talavenka's father, have
only this morning taken them to put in the cottonwood booth out on the village plaza, where
they are now awaiting their part in the coming ceremony. For old Thisdoa is the head priest
and knows more of the mysteries of the snake nature than any being in Oraibi.

The sun is just on the edge of the desert. All traces of the morning storm are vanished. Out
on the tops of the houses all about the open plaza, groups of men and women begin to appear,
the unmarried girls distinguished from the married by the graceful whorls of black hair standing
out in marked contrast with the two rolls that hang down past the ears of the matrons. Cowboys,
Navajo horsemen, traders, all the non-acting part of Oraibi's population, tourists, photographers,
visitors, crowd up in a rainbow coloured fringe about the sandy depression which now contains
only one conspicuous object, the cottonwood booth or kisi, the size of a boy's wigwam, having
a canvas flap on the side opening close by the broad board over which the feet of the priests
will thump as they file past. A moving picture machine is installed on top of a near-by house.
The Boston, New York, Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Chicago tourists and newspaper men are grouped
about in what they believe are advantageous positions. The costumes vary from smart tailor
made dresses worn by the tourist girls from Cincinnati to a Hopi child's dress made of a piece
of a gunny sack bearing the name of a Minnesota flouring mill. Over all the jumble of old and
new, modern and ancient, the setting sun floods the medley of colour and language and dress
and Christian and pagan. And in the stillness that waits the coming of the twenty-four priests
out of the kivas, the town crier walks out on the corner of a house top and cries aloud an
announcement of a service to be held that night in the little mission chapel out there on the
edge of the rock.

"What's that?" asked one of the tourists near Clifford.

"That's the town crier of Oraibi," said Clifford. "There are no newspapers up here and the
official village news purveyor is telling the crowd to come over to the Gospel meeting to-night.
He says Mr. Masters is going to preach in three languages. Better come and hear him in one of 'em."

The tourist stares at Clifford. "Well of all the places on earth for preaching, this beats
me. Do you mean to say a preacher will actually hold a service up here after this snake dance
and expect to get an audience?"

"Will he?" says Clifford cheerfully. "You had better come early or you won't get a seat. And
as for preaching you'll hear a better sermon than you ever heard in Cincinnati, Ohio."

"I guess that may be so," says the tourist. "For I haven't been to church since I don't know when."

"You need preaching then, like the rest of these heathen," said Clifford so simply that the
Cincinnati man takes no offence but promises to go over to the service if he isn't too tired.

The rim of the sun is an hour above the horizon and the crowd has ceased its chatter. It is
very quiet on the grey rock of Oraibi, although a thousand people are looking intently at the
openings of the two kivas. Suddenly from the one nearest the Tolchaco party up the ladder the
chief of the Antelope priests appears. He holds the rattle box in his hand and is followed
by the eleven priests, the last one a lad twelve years old. The line twists through the fringe
of visitors, as oblivious of any onlookers as if they were going through this ceremony five
hundred years ago when not a white face was dreamed of and when the Hopi was doing exactly
what old Thisdoa and his grandson are doing to-day.

Then from out the other kiva the stately snake priests emerge, a group of twelve old men each
bearing the rattle which contains the grains of corn. The incessant pattering of the rattles
is the only sound heard in the plaza until the soft moccasined feet reach the board over the
hole in front of the kisi. The thump, thump, thump of the feet pound over the board to call
the attention of the underworld gods to the needs of their children up here. The sandy plaza
is traversed and the two lines of priests circle about, finally stopping in front of the kisi,
facing one another; then rises the "wo, wo, wo, wo," the guttural chant. The Hopis have been
for many years a peaceful people, but this monotonous chant, rising occasionally into a swelling
crescendo howl sends delightful cold shivers down the backs of the visitors, and even Elijah
Clifford says he wouldn't want to meet that howl unexpectedly around the corner. Then the priests
file past the kisi one by one, stoop by the opening and receive from the old warrior priest
sitting within, a snake. Each one raises his snake to his mouth and holds it there between
his teeth as he walks about the plaza accompanied by his hugger or companion. Suddenly the
snakes are released and thrown down upon the sand. They make swift and desperate efforts to
escape but are caught up again with such rapidity of movement that the closest attention paid
by the tourists can not discover how it is done. Round and round the procession of twenty-four
moves. Out from the houses near the snake kiva a group of girls and women suddenly run. They
stop at the edge of the plaza near the Tolchaco party and scatter the sacred corn meal on the
ground. Navajo horsemen dismount and pick up pinches of this sacred meal to put in their pouches
for good luck. The twenty-four priests with their snakes twisting in their sinewy brown hands
turn together and with a common movement all dart up to the place where the meal lies. They
circle about the spot. Paul raises Helen up a little higher so that she can throw a horrified
gaze into that astonishing scene. For a moment the only thing she and the rest can see is a
squirming, hissing heap of snakes, apparently tangled together in an angry mass. And then the
twenty-four priests shoulder one another as they stoop and with both hands grab up as many
snakes as they can hold in their fingers, and suddenly separating, turn and face towards the
edge of the rock, running with all their might, thrusting the snakes into the faces of any
unlucky tourist or visitor who may be in the way.

There is a rush for the edge of the rock. Those who line up there see the lean figures of the
priests leaping down the wild trail. Their forms can hardly be distinguished as they reach
the desert and are dimly seen to be kneeling in prayer over the snakes as they let them go,
down to the great plumed snake to beseech him to send rain, rain, rain, on the corn and melons
of his children up here.

The rest of the ceremony is purification. The priests come panting and sweating up the rock.
On the edge of the snake priests' kiva the women bring out huge jars of mysterious brown liquid.
The panting figures kneel there in the now desert twilight and drink great draughts of this
liquor. Kneeling about over the rock they disgorge from their mouths what they have been drinking.
The merciful darkness is closing in swiftly over this disgusting scene, participated in, however,
in all reverence by the priests and gazed upon in astonishing seriousness by the spectators,
for is it not all a part of the painful crucifying of the flesh that these poor creatures have
been subjecting themselves to for centuries in their blind but constant desire to find God,
the God of the rain, the rain, the rain.

Gradually the priests disappear down into the kiva where a feast has been prepared for them
by the women. The great festival, which will not occur again at Oraibi for two years, is over.

Paul sees Masters standing by him. In the dim light he realises with a start as he looks up,
that the tears are rolling down over Masters's face.

"Oh, the people! How long will they seek after God in these ways! Oh, for the power to open
their eyes to see him as He is!"

Through the growing darkness groups of tourists and visitors pass, choking the narrow paths
between the houses, crowding into the trail down to the wagons at the foot of the rock. Among
the confusion of chattering voices and exclamations one shrill voice of a girl penetrates through
to the hearing of Masters and Paul.

"Wasn't it the greatest thing you ever saw? and oh, how picturesque! Those people, those girls
on the houses! What a pity it would be to spoil it by trying to civilise these nature children!"

Masters looked at Paul grimly.

"Yes, it would be a great pity, wouldn't it? I wish that girl could stay here one winter and
enjoy the picturesqueness of a Hopi Indian girl's life. I wonder if she has any little thought
of the real life of these 'nature children'? Of its misery, its impurity, its dreadful sin
and superstition and darkness; its infant mortality; its pain and disease due to the absence
of any sanitary or medical skill. But most of all its ignorance of Jesus Christ and his love.
'Picturesque!' I grant you it is. But Christianity would not destroy anything worth keeping.
For centuries these 'nature children' have walked in darkness. Are they not entitled, like
that white girl, to the light of life? And did you see Talavenka when her father reached into
the kisi for the snake?"

"No," said Paul, "I must confess my eyes were on the priests, not the spectators."

"Talavenka was crying all through the ceremony. Her father can not understand her new life.
The girl stands alone in the midst of this superstition. What will become of her? The estrangement
in the family is one of the most painful things I ever knew. Her mother Schewingoiashchi is
the only one who seems kind to her. At times I think Schewingoiashchi is not far from the Kingdom
herself. She does not object to Talavenka's baptism. We have talked of that. It will be a part
of our service to-night. I must go and get ready."

Paul and Esther and the rest of the party went to Talavenka's house for the evening meal. Masters,
who was of the old school of preachers, they learned afterwards had spent the hour before the
service out on the edge of the rock a little past the mission chapel, praying in the darkness
for the people of Oraibi.

Helen was very eager to go to see Talavenka baptised. During the afternoon she had noticed
the girl's grief and had been deeply touched by it. They were of the same age, she had learned
from Mrs. Masters. The few words she spoke in English during the midday meal had revealed a
quiet dignity and a genuine Christian faith. Already Helen's romantic temperament was constructing
a plan to have Talavenka leave Oraibi and finish her education in Milton academy.

"We can carry you over to the chapel all right," her father said. "Where are those young men?
I haven't seen Van Shaw or his friends all the afternoon."

"They were there, I saw them," said Walter.

"I saw them on the other side of the plaza," said Bauer who had not lost sight of Van Shaw
during the afternoon and had wondered more than once why he was avoiding Helen. He had had
his talk with Mrs. Douglas and had been tormented all through that ancient prayer for rain
with questions as to his wisdom in telling some things to Helen's mother. But he was not given
to doubt concerning his motives and in this particular instance he had no hesitation over his
own absolutely clean and disinterested motive. He wanted Helen to escape the horror of a union
with a degenerate mind and heart as he knew they existed in Van Shaw's character and his own
feeling for her did not occupy a prominent place in his motive. Of that much he was sure and
it helped him somewhat to get through one of the most trying experiences of his life.

Bauer went on to say to Mr. Douglas that he had seen Van Shaw and his two friends go down the
trail to their wagons and had not seen them come back up the rock. So Paul and Walter, Clifford
and Felix took Helen over to the mission chapel towards which various groups could be seen
moving through the unlighted spaces of Oraibi's crooked and narrow windings.

The chapel had been built by a small missionary society ambitious to signalise its existence
by doing something desperately hard in a corner of the world where no missionary work had ever
been done. The missionary in charge had laboured several years with that marvelous patience
and persistence which nothing but the history of missions in this old world has ever recorded.
And as a result of his work Talavenka had come into the light. She had spent two winters at
the mission in Tolchaco and Masters had shaped and enlarged the faith that first had begun
to glow on the grey rock of Oraibi. And the missionary had been planning to have Masters hold
this special service and baptise Talavenka from the time he heard of his coming up to the snake
dance.

Masters found a place on one end of the little platform for Helen's cot where she lay propped
up in comfortable fashion. The room was very small and it filled up rapidly. When it would
hold no more it is doubtful if any man with a message ever faced a more mixed or astonishing
audience.

There were native Hopis, old men and women who did not understand a word of English. Navajo
visitors, men who never appeared at Oraibi except once in two years. Paul recognised one man
whom Masters had pointed out one day at Tolchaco as a notorious gambler and horse trader, known
all over the painted desert as "Iadaka" the gambler; there were traders from the different
government posts; a few teachers from the government schools; a bunch of cowboys from Flagstaff;
half a dozen Apaches who had come up to Oraibi from an encampment near the Bottomless Pits;
a dozen tourists from a half dozen different cities in the east attracted from tourist curiosity;
three interpreters, one of whom happened to be in government employ and had been caught at
Oraibi and detained there by an accident to his team on the way to Shungapavi. Masters knew
him and asked him to come in and help at the service.

