Answers to "Inquisitive Jim" are received from Charles W. L., and F. B. Hesse (both aged eleven
years), who give correct information concerning the establishment of the Bank of England, and
from C. W. Gibbons, who writes a full description of this celebrated institution, which we
are compelled to condense: The Bank of England was first suggested by William Paterson, a London
merchant, and was incorporated under its present name in 1694, during the reign of William
and Mary. The business of the bank was conducted at Grocers' Hall until 1732, when the house
and garden of Sir John Houblon, its first governor, were purchased as a site for the present
building, which, although not imposing as a whole, contains some handsome architecture based
on ancient models. The principal entrance of the bank is on Threadneedle Street, but why it
is irreverently called "the Old Lady" I do not know. Can any one tell me?

       *       *       *       *       *

EDWIN K.--"General" is the highest rank in the United States army. It was created in July,
1866, and bestowed upon General Grant, who had for two years previous held the position of
Lieutenant-General. When General Grant resigned his position on being elected President of
the United States, Sherman became General, and Sheridan Lieutenant-General.

       *       *       *       *       *

"SCHOOL-BOY."--Cape Trafalgar derives its name from Taral-al-ghar--signifying "promontory of
the cave"--the appellation given it by the ancient Moors.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROBERT N.--You will find the information you desire in the "Post-Office" of our sixth number.

       *       *       *       *       *

HARRY L. G.--"American Club Skates" are the most popular at present among boys, as they require
neither straps nor heel plate, and fit very firmly to the foot.

       *       *       *       *       *

DORSEY COATE.--The directions for keeping gold-fish, given in Harper's Young People, No. 6,
will apply to your "common fish."

       *       *       *       *       *

RALPH.--General George Washington was born in a modest mansion near the Potomac, half way between
Pope's and Bridge's creeks, Westmoreland County, Virginia. Of this mansion nothing now remains
but a few scattered ruins. It was destroyed by fire while Washington was still very young,
and his father removed to a country residence in Stafford County, near Fredericksburg.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRANKIE H.--We would very gladly help you and your sister "to be industrious," but have not
room enough in the "Post-Office" to describe many things. We refer your sister to directions
for pretty needle-work in Young People, Nos. 2 and 5, also to suggestions for Lulu W., in this
column. You will say those are all for girls. Now boys can make many pretty things with a scroll
saw, such as frames, brackets, and boxes, all suitable for Christmas.

       *       *       *       *       *

LULU W. can arrange her cards of pressed seaweed prettily by taking two good-sized scallop
shells, and fastening the shells and cards together with a bow of ribbon at the back. By using
blank cards a pretty autograph album may be also made. It is easy to drill holes in the shells
through which to pass the ribbon, and they may be ornamented with paintings or pictures pasted on.

  A. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

Postage-stamp Case for Lulu W. Take a piece of perforated card-board about two inches and a
half square, work an initial or any little figure on one side, on the other side "Stamps" in
small letters. Line the pieces with bright-colored silk, and bind three sides together with
ribbon. It can be made more ornamental by putting tiny bows at the corners.

  L. B.

       *       *       *       *       *

H. W. and AMELIA F.--Your suggestions to Susie H. C. are good, but not new enough to print.
Thanks for your pleasant letters.

       *       *       *       *       *

We acknowledge the receipt of a prettily written letter from Robert S., St. Johns, Michigan,
and answers to puzzles from Gussie L., Robert N., Grace A. McG., William C. R., Heywood C.,
F. B. Hesse, Addie A. B., C. M. J., Edwin Van R., Joseph S. G., Martha W. D., Bertie McJ.,
Charles E. L., and C. F. D.

THE SNOW-FLOWER.

In California, the land of wonders, is found a wonderful plant. The traveller who is exploring
the Yosemite region in June will find lingering patches of snow and ice amongst the cliffs,
and there he may be fortunate enough to see this astonishing production rising fresh and superb
beside its icy bed. It springs from the edges of the snow-banks, growing ten or fifteen inches
high, and is called in common phrase the "snow-flower," from its location, not its coloring,
for it is blood-red, of the richest crimson carmine, buds, flowers, stems, leaves, and sheathing
bulb all of the same ensanguined hue. The flowers are thickish, something like the pyrola,
and its manner of growth resembles the hyacinth, with bell-shaped flowers clustering along
the upper part of the stem, and erect, pointed leaves. This plant is mentioned by Mr. Brace
in his book on California, and specimens have been sent to the North, but they are generally
in very poor condition when they arrive.

As the years slip by, no doubt many of the now quite youthful readers of this paper will find
themselves sauntering among the snow-crowned cliffs of the Yosemite, and to them, perhaps,
the crimson banner of the snow-flower will be unfurled. They may then like to remember that
its botanical name is Sarcodes sanguinea.

SPOON-FACES.

  When they're bright and shining
  Like the summer moons,
  Two queer faces look at you
  From the silver spoons.
  One is very long, and one
  Broad as it can be,
  And both of them are grewsome things,
  As ever you did see.

  Then careful be, young people,
  And do not whine or frown,
  Lest some day you discover
  Your chin's a-growing down.
  Nor must you giggle all the time
  As though you were but loons;
  We want no children's faces
  Like those in silver spoons.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Largest Tree in the World.=--In San Francisco, encircled by a circus tent of ample dimensions,
is a section of the largest tree in the world--exceeding the diameter of the famous tree of
Calaveras by five feet. This monster of the vegetable kingdom was discovered in 1874, on Tule
River, Tulare County, about seventy-five miles from Visalia. At some remote period its top
had been broken off by the elements or some unknown forces, yet when it was discovered it had
an elevation of 240 feet. The trunk of the tree was 111 feet in circumference, with a diameter
of 35 feet 4 inches. The section on exhibition is hollowed out, leaving about a foot of bark
and several inches of the wood. The interior is 100 feet in circumference and 30 feet in diameter,
and it has a seating capacity of about 200. It was cut off from the tree about 12 feet above
the base, and required the labor of four men for nine days to chop it down. In the centre of
the tree, and extending through its whole length, was a rotten core about two feet in diameter,
partially filled with a soggy, decayed vegetation that had fallen into it from the top. In
the centre of this cavity was found the trunk of a little tree of the same species, having
perfect bark on it, and showing regular growth. It was of uniform diameter, an inch and a half
all the way; and when the tree fell and split open, this curious stem was traced for nearly
100 feet. The rings in this monarch of the forest show its age to have been 4840 years.

       *       *       *       *       *

