That the bird once existed there can be no doubt, from the notice of Sir Hamon L'Estrange,
which there is no reason for questioning; and there seems to be as little reason to suppose
that Tradescant's stuffed specimen was a fabrication. He used to preserve his own specimens;
and there could be no motive at that period for a fabrication. I had hoped to have found some
notice of it in the Diary of that worthy virtuoso Zacharias Conrad von Uffenbach, who visited
the Ashmolean Museum in 1710; but though he notices other natural curiosities, there is no
mention of it. This worthy remarks on the slovenly condition and inadequate superintendence
of our museums, and especially of that of Gresham College; but those who recollect the state
of our great national museum forty years since will not be surprised at this, or at the calamitous
destruction of Tradescant's specimen of the Dodo. That the bird was extinct above 150 years
ago I think we may conclude from the notices I have extracted from La Roque, and the letter
of the Jesuit Brown. Mr. Strickland has done good service to the cause of natural science by
his monograph of this very curious subject; and to him every particle of information must be
acceptable: this must be my excuse for the almost nothing I have been able to contribute.

S.W. SINGER.

March 26. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WATCHING OF THE SEPULCHRE.

Inquired about by "T.W." (No. 20. p. 318.), is a liturgical practice, which long was, and still
is, observed in Holy Week. On Maundy Thursday, several particles of the Blessed Eucharist,
consecrated at the Mass sung that day, were reserved--a larger one for the celebrating priest
on the morrow, Good Friday; the smaller ones for the viaticum of the dying, should need be,
and carried in solemn procession all round the church, from the high altar to a temporary erection,
fitted up like a tomb, with lights, and the figure of an angel watching by, on the north side
of the chancel. Therein the Eucharist was kept till Easter Sunday morning, according to the
Salisbury Ritual; and there were people kneeling and praying at this so-called sepulchre all
the time, both night and day. To take care of the church, left open throughout this period,
and to look after the lights, it was necessary for the sacristan to have other men to help
him; and what was given to them for this service is put down in the church-wardens' books as
money for "watching the sepulchre." By the Roman Ritual, this ceremony lasts only from Maundy
Thursday till Good Friday. This rite will be duly followed in my own little church here at
Buckland, where some of my flock, two and two, in stated succession, all through the night,
as well as day, will be watching from just after Mass on Maundy Thursday till next morning's
service. In some of the large Catholic churches in London and the provinces, this ceremony
is observed with great splendour.

DANIEL ROCK.

Buckland, Farringdon.

Watching the Sepulchre.--If no one sends a more satisfactory reply to the query about "Watching
the Sepulchre," the following extract from Parker's Glossary of Architecture (3rd edit. p.
197.) will throw some light on the matter:--

    "In many churches we find a large flat arch in the north
    wall of the chancel near the alter, which was called the
    Holy Sepulchre; and was used at Easter for the performance of
    solemn rites commemorative of the resurrection of our Lord.
    On this occasion there was usually a temporary wooden erection
    over the arch; but, occasionally, the whole was of stone, and
    very richly ornamented. There are fine specimens at Navenby
    and Heckington churches, Lincolnshire, and {355} Hawton
    church, Notts. All these in the decorated style of the
    fourteenth century; and are of great magnificence, especially
    the last."

To this account of the sepulchre I may add, that one principal part of the solemn rites referred
to above consisted in depositing a consecrated wafer or, as at Durham Cathedral, a crucifix
within its recess--a symbol of the entombment of our blessed Lord--and removing it with great
pomp, accompanied sometimes with a mimetic representation of the visit of the Marys to the
tomb, on the morning of Easter Sunday. This is a subject capable of copious illustration, for
which, some time since, I collected some materials (which are quite at your service); but,
as your space is valuable, I will only remark, that the "Watching the Sepulchre" was probably
in imitation of the watch kept by the Roman soldiers round the tomb of Our Lord, and with the
view of preserving the host from any casualty.

At Rome, the ceremony is anticipated, the wafer being carried in
procession, on the Thursday in Passion Week, from the Sistine to the
Paoline Chapel, and brought back again on the Friday; thus missing
the whole intention of the rite. Penitentiary, who is to officiate on the
    following day."

E.V.

       *       *       *       *       *

POEM BY SIR EDWARD DYER.

Dr. Rimbault's 4th Qu. (No. 19. p. 302.).--"My mind to me a kingdom is" will be found to be
of much earlier date than Nicholas Breton. Percy partly printed it from William Byrds's Psalmes,
Sonets, and Songs of Sadnes (no date, but 1588 according to Ames), with some additions and
improvements (?) from a B.L. copy in the Pepysian collection. I have met with it in some early
poetical miscellany--perhaps Tottel, or England's Helicon--but cannot just now refer to either.

The following copy is from a cotemporary MS. containing many of the poems of Sir Edward Dyer,
Edward Earl of Oxford, and their cotemporaries, several of which have never been published.
The collection appears to have been made by Robert Mills, of Cambridge. Dr. Rimbault will,
no doubt, be glad to compare this text with Breton's. It is, at least, much more genuine than
the composite one given by Bishop Percy.

  "My mynde to me a kyngdome is,
    Suche preasente joyes therin I fynde,
  That it excells all other blisse,
    That earth affordes or growes by kynde;
  Thoughe muche I wante which moste would have,
  Yet still my mynde forbiddes to crave.

  "No princely pompe, no wealthy store,
    No force to winne the victorye,
  No wilye witt to salve a sore,
    No shape to feade a loving eye;
  To none of these I yielde as thrall,
  For why? my mynde dothe serve for all.

  "I see howe plenty suffers ofte,
    And hasty clymers sone do fall,
  I see that those which are alofte
    Mishapp dothe threaten moste of all;
  They get with toyle, they keepe with feare,
  Suche cares my mynde coulde never beare.

  "Content to live, this is my staye,
    I seeke no more than maye suffyse,
  I presse to beare no haughty swaye;
    Look what I lack, my mynde supplies;
  Lo, thus I triumph like a kynge,
  Content with that my mynde doth bringe.

  "Some have too muche, yet still do crave,
    I little have and seek no more,
  They are but poore, though muche they have,
    And I am ryche with lyttle store;
  They poore, I ryche, they begge, I gyve,
  They lacke, I leave, they pyne, I lyve.

  "I laughe not at another's losse,
    I grudge not at another's payne;
  No worldly wants my mynde can toss,
    My state at one dothe still remayne:
  I feare no foe, I fawn no friende,
  I lothe not lyfe nor dreade my ende.

  "Some weighe their pleasure by theyre luste,
    Theyre wisdom by theyre rage of wyll,
  Theyre treasure is theyre onlye truste,
    A cloked crafte theyre store of skylle:
  But all the pleasure that I fynde
  Is to mayntayne a quiet mynde.

