Several natives, whom he met, brought him to the place where, beneath a native hut, King was
sitting, pale, haggard, and wasted to a shadow. He was so weak that it was with difficulty
Howitt could catch the feeble whispers that fell from his lips; but a day or two of European
food served slightly to restore his strength. Howitt then proceeded to the spot where the body
of Wills was lying partly buried, and, after reading over it a short service, he interred it
decently. Then he sought the thicket where the bones of Burke lay with the rusted pistol beside
them, and, having wrapped a union jack around them, he dug a grave for them hard by.

Three days later the blacks were summoned, and their eyes brightened at the sight of knives,
tomahawks, necklaces, looking-glasses, and so forth, which were bestowed upon them in return
for their kindness to King. Gay pieces of ribbon were fastened round the black heads of the
children, and the whole tribe moved away rejoicing in the possession of fifty pounds of sugar,
which had been divided among them.

When Howitt and King returned, and the sad story of the expedition was related, the Victorian
Government sent a party to bring the remains of Burke and Wills to Melbourne, where they received
the melancholy honours of a public funeral amid the general mourning of the whole colony. In
after years, a statue was raised to perpetuate their heroism and testify to the esteem with
which the nation regarded their memory.

#6. M'Douall Stuart.#--Burke and Wills were the first who ever crossed the Australian Continent;
but, for several years before they set out, another traveller had, with wonderful perseverance,
repeatedly attempted this feat. John M'Douall Stuart had served as draughtsman in Sturt's expedition
to the Stony Desert, and he had been well trained in that school of adversity and sufferings.
He was employed, in 1859, by a number of squatters, who wished him to explore for them new
lands in South Australia, and having found a passage between Lake Eyre and Lake Torrens, he
discovered, beyond the deserts which had so much disheartened Eyre, a broad district of fine
pastoral land.

Next year the South Australian Government offered £2,000 as a reward to the first person who
should succeed in crossing Australia from south to north; and Stuart set out from Adelaide
to attempt the exploit. With only two men he travelled to the north, towards Van Diemen's Gulf,
and penetrated much farther than Sturt had done in 1844. Indeed, he was only 400 miles from
the other side of Australia, when the hostility of the blacks forced him to return: he succeeded,
however, in planting a flag in the centre of the continent, at a place called by him Central
Mount Stuart. Next year he was again in the field, and following exactly the same course, approached
very near to Van Diemen's Gulf; being no more than 250 miles distant from its shores, when
want of provisions forced him once more to return. The report of this expedition was sent to
Burke and Wills, just before they set out from Cooper's Creek on their fatal trip to the Gulf
of Carpentaria.

It was not until the following year, 1862, that Stuart succeeded in his purpose. He had the
perseverance to start a third time, and follow his former route; and on this occasion he was
successful in reaching Van Diemen's Gulf, and returned safely, after having endured many sufferings
and hardships.

His triumphal entry into Adelaide took place on the very day when Howitt's mournful party entered
that city, bearing the remains of Burke and Wills, on their way to Melbourne. Stuart then learnt
that these brave explorers had anticipated him in crossing the continent, for they had reached
the Gulf of Carpentaria in February, 1861; whilst he did not arrive at Van Diemen's Gulf until
July, 1862. However, Stuart had shown so great a courage, and had been twice before so near
the completion of his task, that every one was pleased when the South Australian Government
gave him the well-merited reward.

#7. Warburton.#--In a subsequent chapter it will be told how a line of telegraph was, in 1872,
constructed along the track followed by Stuart; and as the stations connected with this line
are numerous, it is now an easy matter to cross the continent from south to north. But in recent
years a desire has arisen among the adventurous to journey overland from east to west. Warburton,
in 1873, made a successful trip of this kind. With his son, two men, and two Afghans to act
as drivers of his seventeen camels, he started from Alice Springs, a station on the telegraph
line close to the tropic of Capricorn.

The country immediately round Alice Springs was very beautiful, but a journey of only a few
days served to bring the expedition into a dry and barren plain, so desolate that Warburton
declared it could never be traversed without the assistance of camels. After travelling about
four hundred miles, he reached those formidable ridges of fiery red sand in which the waters
of Sturt's Creek are lost, and where A. C. Gregory was in 1856 compelled to turn back. In traversing
this district, the party suffered many hardships; only two out of seventeen camels survived,
and the men were themselves frequently on the verge of destruction. It was only by exercising
the greatest care and prudence that Warburton succeeded in bringing his party to the Oakover
River, on the north-west coast, and when he arrived once more in Adelaide it was found that
he had completely lost the sight of one eye.

#8. Giles and Forrest.#--Towards the close of the same year, 1873, a young Victorian named
Giles started on a similar trip, intending to cross from the middle of the telegraph line to
West Australia. He held his course courageously to the west, but the country was of such appalling
barrenness that, after penetrating half-way to the western coast, he was forced to abandon
the attempt and return. But when three years afterwards he renewed his efforts, he succeeded,
after suffering much and making long marches without water. He had more than one encounter
with the natives, but he had the satisfaction of crossing from the telegraph line to the West
Australian coast, through country never before traversed by the foot of civilised man. In 1874
this region was successfully crossed by Forrest, a Government surveyor of West Australia, who
started from Geraldton, to the south of Shark Bay, and, after a journey of twelve hundred miles
almost due east, succeeded in reaching the telegraph line. His entry into Adelaide was like
a triumphal march, so great were the crowds that went out to escort him to the city. Forrest
was then a young man, but a most skilful and sagacious traveller. Lightly equipped, and accompanied
by only one or two companions, he has on several occasions performed long journeys through
the most formidable country with a celerity and success that are indeed surprising.

His brother, Alexander Forrest, and a long list of bold and skilful bushmen, have succeeded
in traversing the continent in every direction. It is not all desert. They have found fine
tracts of land in the course of their journeys. Indeed, more than half of the recently explored
regions are suitable for sheep and cattle, but there are other great districts which are miserable
and forbidding. However, thanks to the heroic men whose names have been mentioned, and to such
others as the Jardine Brothers, Ernest Favenc, Gosse, and the Baron von Mueller, almost the
whole of Australia is now explored. Only a small part of South Australia and the central part
of West Australia remain unknown. We all of us owe a great debt of gratitude to the men who
endured so much to make known to the world the capabilities of our continent.

CHAPTER XIX.

TASMANIA, 1837-1890.

#1. Governor Franklin.#--Sir John Franklin, the great Arctic explorer, arrived in 1837 to assume
the Governorship of Tasmania. He had been a midshipman, under Flinders, during the survey of
the Australian coasts, and for many years had been engaged in the British Navy in the cause
of science. He now expected to enjoy, as Governor of a small colony, that ease and retirement
which he had so laboriously earned. But his hopes were doomed to disappointment. Although his
bluff and hearty manner secured to him the good-will of the people, yet censures on his administration
were both frequent and severe; for during his rule commenced that astonishing decline of the
colony which continued, with scarcely any interruption, for nearly thirty years.

#2. Flood of Convicts.#--After the cessation of transportation to New South Wales, in 1840,
hopes were entertained that Tasmania would likewise cease to be a penal settlement; and, under
this impression, great numbers of immigrants arrived in the colony. But, ere long, it became
known that Tasmania was not only to continue, as before, a receptacle for British felons, but
was, in fact, to be made the only convict settlement, and was destined to receive the full
stream of criminals, that had formerly been distributed over several colonies. The result was
immediately disastrous to the free settlers, for convict labour could be obtained at very little
cost, and wages therefore fell to a rate so miserable that free labourers, not being able to
earn enough for the support of their families, were forced to leave the island. Thus, in 1844,
whilst the arrival of energetic and hard-working immigrants was adding greatly to the prosperity
of the other colonies, Tasmania was losing its free population, and was sinking more and more
into the degraded position of a mere convict station.

Lord Stanley, the British Colonial Secretary, in 1842, proposed a new plan for the treatment
of convicts, according to which they were to pass through various stages, from a condition
of absolute confinement to one of comparative freedom; and, again, instead of being all collected
into one town, it was arranged that they should be scattered throughout the colony in small
gangs. By this system it was intended that the prisoners should pass through several periods
of probation before they were set at liberty; and it was, therefore, called the Probation Scheme.
The great objection to it was that the men could scarcely be superintended with due precaution
when they were scattered in so many separate groups, and many of them escaped, either to the
bush or to the adjacent colonies.

#3. Franklin's Difficulties.#--The feelings of personal respect with which the people of Van
Diemen's Land regarded Sir John Franklin were greatly increased by the amiable and high-spirited
character of his wife. Lady Franklin possessed, in her own right, a large private fortune,
which she employed in the most generous and kindly manner; her counsel and her wealth were
ever ready to promote prosperity and alleviate sufferings. And yet, in spite of all this personal
esteem, the experience of the new Governor among the colonists was far from being agreeable.

Before the arrival of Sir John Franklin, two nephews of Governor Arthur had been raised to
very high positions. One of them, Mr. Montagu, was the Chief Secretary. During his uncle's
government he had contrived to appropriate to himself so great a share of power that Franklin,
on assuming office, was forced to occupy quite a secondary position. By some of the colonists
the Governor was blamed for permitting the arbitrary acts of the Chief Secretary; while, on
the other hand, he was bitterly denounced as an intermeddler by the numerous friends of the
ambitious Montagu, who, himself, lost no opportunity of bringing the Governor's authority into
contempt. At length Montagu went so far as to write him a letter containing--amid biting-sarcasm
and mock courtesy--a statement equivalent to a charge of falsehood. In consequence of this
he was dismissed; but Sir John Franklin, who considered Montagu to be a man of ability, magnanimously
gave him a letter to Lord Stanley, recommending him for employment in some other important
position. This letter, being conveyed to Lord Stanley, was adduced by Montagu as a confession
from the Governor of the superior ability and special fitness of the Chief Secretary for his
post. Lord Stanley ordered his salary to be paid from the date of his dismissal; and Franklin,
shortly after this insult to his authority, suddenly found himself superseded by Sir Eardley
Wilmot, without having received the previous notice which, as a matter of courtesy, he might
have expected. In 1843 he returned to England, followed by the regrets of nearly all the Tasmanians.

Two years afterwards he sailed with the ships Erebus and Terror to search for a passage into
the Pacific Ocean through the Arctic regions of North America. He entered the ice-bound regions
of the north, and for many years no intelligence regarding his fate could be obtained. Lady
Franklin prosecuted the search with a wife's devotion, long after others had given up hope;
and, at last, the discovery of some papers and ruined huts proved that the whole party had
perished in those frozen wastes.

#4. Governor Wilmot.#--Sir Eardley Wilmot had gained distinction as a debater in the British
Parliament. Like Governors Bligh and Gipps, in New South Wales, Wilmot found that to govern
at the same time a convict population and a colony of free settlers was a most ungrateful task.
A large proportion of the convicts, after being liberated, renewed their former courses: police
had to be employed to watch them, judges and courts appointed to try them, gaols built to receive
them, and provisions supplied to maintain them. If a prisoner was arrested and again convicted
for a crime committed in Tasmania, then the colony was obliged to bear all the expense of supporting
him, and amid so large a population of criminals these expenses became intolerably burdensome.
It is true that colonists had to some extent a compensating advantage in receiving, free of
charge, a plentiful supply of convict labour for their public works. But when Lord Stanley
ordered that they should in future pay for all such labour received, they loudly complained
of their grievances. "Was it not enough," they asked, "to send out the felons of Great Britain
to become Tasmanian bushrangers, without forcing the free settlers to feed and clothe them
throughout their lives, after the completion of their original sentences?" To all such remonstrances
Lord Stanley's answer was that Tasmania had always been a convict colony; and that the free
settlers had no right to expect that their interests would be specially consulted in the management
of its affairs. Sir Eardley Wilmot found it impossible to obtain the large sums required for
the maintenance of the necessary police and gaols, and he proposed to the Legislative Council
to borrow money for this purpose. Those of the Council who were Government officials were afraid
to vote in opposition to the wishes of the Governor, who, therefore, had a majority at his
command. But the other members, six in number, denounced the proposed scheme as injurious to
the colony; and when they found that the Governor was determined to carry it out, they all
resigned their seats. For this action they were honoured with the title of the "Patriotic Six".

