The crafty policy of Clive and Hastings, the English Governors, who successively employed force,
stratagem, and bribery, to attain their ends, laid the foundation of British greatness in India,
and, at the close of the last century, the Company were possessors of an immense extent of
country, with no less than sixty millions of inhabitants. Their territory included Bengal,
Behar, the provinces of Benares, Madras, and the Sircars. Tippoo Saib alone, the Sultan of
Mysore, struggled against the English encroachments, but he was unable to hold out against
the coalition formed against him by the skill of Colonel Wellesley. When rid of their formidable
enemies, the Company overcame such opposition as remained by pensions; and, under the pretext
of protection, imposed upon the rajahs an English garrison which was maintained at their expense.

One would imagine from all this that the English rule was detested; but that is not the case.
The Company, recognizing the rights of individuals, did not attempt to change the religion,
laws, or customs of their subjects. Neither is it surprising that travellers, even when they
ventured into districts which, properly speaking, did not belong to Great Britain, incurred
but little danger. In fact, so soon as the East India Company was free from political embarrassments,
it encouraged explorers throughout its vast domains. At the same time travellers were despatched
to the neighbouring territories to collect observations, and we propose rapidly to review those
expeditions.

One of the first and most curious was that of Webb to the sources of the Ganges, a river concerning
which uncertain and contradictory opinions prevailed. The Government of Bengal, recognizing
the great importance of the Ganges in the interests of commerce, organized an expedition, of
which Messrs. Webb, Roper, and Hearsay, formed part. They were to be accompanied by Sepoys,
native servants, and interpreters.

The expedition reached Herdouar, a small village on the left of the river, upon the 1st of
April, 1808. The situation of this village, at the entrance of the fertile plains of Hindustan,
had caused it to be much frequented by pilgrims, and it was at this spot that purifications
in the waters of the holy river took place during the hot season.

As every pilgrimage implies the sale of relics, Herdouar was the centre of an important market,
where horses, camels, antimony, asafoetida, dried fruits, shawls, arrows, muslins, cotton and
woollen goods from the Punjab, Cabulistan, and Cashmere, were to be had. Slaves, too, were
to be bought there from three to thirty years of age, at prices varying from 10 to 150 rupees.
This fair, where such different races, languages, and costumes were to be met with, presented
a curious spectacle.

Upon the 12th of April the English expedition set out for Gangautri, following a road planted
with white mulberries and figs, as far as Gourondar. A little farther on water-mills of simple
construction were at work, upon the banks of streams shaded with willows and raspberry-trees.
The soil was fertile, but the tyranny of the Government prevented the natives from making the
best of it.

The route soon became mountainous, but peach, apricot, nut, and other European trees abounded,
and at length the expedition found themselves in the midst of a chain of mountains, which appeared
to belong to the Himalaya range.

The Baghirati, which is known further on as the Ganges, was met with at the end of a pass.
To the left, the river is bounded by high, almost barren mountains; to the right stretches
a fertile valley. At the village of Tchiavli, the poppy is largely cultivated for the preparation
of opium; here, owing probably, to the bad quality of the water, all the peasants suffer from wens.

At Djosvara the travellers had to cross a bridge of rope, called a "djorila." This was a strange
and perilous structure.

"On either side of the river," says Webb, "two strong poles are driven in, at a distance of
two feet from each other, and across them is placed another piece of wood. To this is attached
a dozen or more thick ropes, which are held down upon the ground by large heaps of wood. They
are divided into two packets, about a foot apart; Blow hangs a ladder of rope knotted to one
of these, which answers instead of a parapet. The flooring of the bridge is composed of small
branches of trees, placed at intervals of two and a half, or three feet from each other. As
these are generally slender, they seem as if they were on the point of breaking every moment,
which naturally induces the traveller to depend upon the support of the ropes which form the
parapet, and to keep them constantly under their arms. The first step taken upon so shaky a
structure is sufficient to cause giddiness, for the action of walking makes it swing to either
side, and the noise of the torrent over which it is suspended is not reassuring. Moreover the
bridge is so narrow, that if two persons meet upon it, one must draw completely to the side
to make room for the other."

The expedition afterwards passed through the town of Baharat, where but few of the houses have
been rebuilt since the earthquake of 1803. This locality has always enjoyed a certain importance
from the fact that a market is held there, and also on account of the difficulty of obtaining
provisions in the towns higher up, as well as from its central position. The routes to Jemauhi,
Kedar, Nath, and Sirinagur all meet there.

Beyond Batheri the road became so bad that the travellers were obliged to abandon their baggage.
There was a mere path-track by the edge of precipices, amid débris of stones and rocks; and
the attempt to proceed was soon relinquished.

Devaprayaga is situated at the junction of the Baghirati, and the Aluknanda. The first, coming
from the north, hurries along with noise and impetuosity; the second, broader, deeper, and
more tranquil, rises no less than forty-six feet above its ordinary level in the rainy season.
The junction of these two rivers forms the Ganges, and is a sacred spot from which the Brahmins
draw considerable profit, as they have arranged pools there, where for a certain price pilgrims
can perform their ablutions without danger of being carried away by the current.

The Aluknanda was crossed by means of a running bridge, or "Dindla," which is thus described:--

"This bridge consists of three or four large ropes fixed upon either bank, and upon these a
small seat some eighteen inches square is slung by means of hoops at either end. Upon this
seat the traveller takes his place, and is drawn from one side of the river to the other by
a rope pulled by the man upon the opposite bank."

The expedition reached Sirinagur upon the 13th of May. The curiosity of the inhabitants had
been so much excited that the magistrates sent a message to the English begging them to march
through the town.

Sirinagur, which had been visited by Colonel Hardwick in 1796, had been almost completely destroyed
by the earthquake of 1803, and had in the same year been conquered by the Gorkhalis. Here Webb
was joined by the emissaries whom he had sent to Gangautri by the route which he himself had
been unable to follow, and who had visited the source of the Ganges.

"A large rock," he says, "on either side of which water flows, and which is very shallow, roughly
resembles the body and mouth of a cow. A cavity at one end of its surface gave rise to its
name of Gaoumokhi, the mouth of the cow, who, by its fancied resemblance, is popularly supposed
to vomit the water of the sacred river. A little farther on, advance is impossible, a mountain
as steep as a wall rises in front; the Ganges appeared to issue from the snow, which lay at
its feet; the valley terminated here. No one has ever gone any farther."

The expedition returned by a different route. It met with the tributaries of the Ganges, and
of the Keli Ganga, or Mandacni, rivers rising in the Mountains of Kerdar. Immense flocks of
goats and sheep laden with grain were met with, numbers of defiles crossed, and after passing
the towns of Badrinath and Manah the expedition finally reached the cascade of Barson, in the
midst of heavy snow and intense cold.

"This," says Webb's narrative, "is the goal of the devotions of the pilgrims. Some of them
come here to be sprinkled by the sacred spray of the cascade. At this spot the course of the
Aluknanda may be traced as far as the south-western extremity of the valley, but its source
is hidden under heaps of snow, which have probably been accumulating for centuries."

Webb furnishes some details respecting the women of Manah. They wore necklaces, earrings, and
gold and silver ornaments, which were scarcely in keeping with their coarse attire. Some of
the children wore necklaces and bracelets of silver to the value of six hundred rupees.

In winter, this town, which does a great trade with Thibet, is completely buried in snow, and
the natives take refuge in neighbouring towns.

The expedition visited the temple at Badrinath, which is far-famed for its sanctity. Neither
its internal nor external structure or appearance give any idea of the immense sums which are
expended upon it. It is one of the oldest and most venerated sanctuaries of India. Ablutions
are performed there in reservoirs fed with very warm sulphureous water.

"There are," says the narrative, "a great number of hot springs, each having their special
name and virtue, and from all of them doubtless the Brahmins derive profit. For this reason,
the poor pilgrim, as he gets through the requisite ablutions, finds his purse diminish with
the number of his sins, and the many tolls exacted from him upon the road to paradise might
induce him to consider the narrow way by no means the least expensive one. This temple possesses
seven hundred villages, which have either been ceded to it by government, given as security
for loans, or bought by private individuals and given as offerings."

The expedition reached Djosimah on the 1st of June. There the Brahmin who acted as guide received
orders from the government of Nepaul, to conduct the travellers back immediately to the territories
of the Company. The government had discovered, a little late it must be admitted, that the
English explorations had a political as well as a geographical significance. A month afterwards,
Webb and his companions entered Delhi, having definitely settled the course of the Ganges,
and ascertained the sources of the Baghirati and Aluknanda; in fact, having attained the object
which the Company had had in view.

In 1808, the English government decided upon sending a new mission to the Punjab, then under
the dominion of Runjeet Sing. The anonymous narrative of this expedition published in the "Annales
des Voyages" offers some particulars of interest, from which we will extract a few.

Upon the 6th of April, 1808, an English officer, in charge of the expedition, reached Herdonai,
which he represents as the rendezvous of a million individuals at the time of the yearly fair.
At Boria, which is situated between the Jumna and the Sutlej, the traveller was an object of
much curiosity to the women, who begged permission to come and see him.

"Their looks and gestures," says the narrative, "sufficiently expressed their surprise. They
approached me laughing heartily, the colour of my face amused them extremely. They addressed
many questions to me, asking me whether I never wore a hat, whether I exposed my face to the
sun, whether I remained continually shut up, or only walked out under shelter, and whether
I slept upon the table placed in my tent, although my bed occupied one side of it; the curtains
were, however, closed. They then examined it in detail, together with the lining of my tent
and everything belonging to it. These women were all good-looking, with mild and regular features,
their complexion was olive, and contrasted agreeably with their white and even teeth, which
are a distinguishing feature of all the inhabitants of the Punjab."

Mustafabad, Mulana, and Umballa were visited in succession by the British officer. The country
through which he passed was inhabited by Sikhs, a race remarkable for benevolence, hospitality,
and truthfulness. The author of the narrative is of opinion that they are the finest race of
men in India. Puttiala, Makeonara, Fegonara, Oudamitta, which Lord Lake entered in 1805 in
his pursuit of a Mahratta chief, and finally Amritsur were stages easily passed.

Amritsur is better built than the generality of towns in Hindustan. It is the largest depôt
of shawls and saffron as well as other articles of Deccan merchandise. The traveller says:--

"Upon the 14th, having put white shoes on my feet, I paid a visit to the Amritsur or reservoir
of the elixir of immortality from whence the city derives its name. It is a reservoir of about
135 feet square, built of brick, and in the centre is a pretty temple dedicated to Gourogovind
Sing. A footpath leads to it; it is decorated both within and without, and the rajah often
adds to its stores by gifts of ornaments. In this sacred receptacle, the book of the laws,
written by Gouron in the 'gourou moukhtis' character, is placed. This temple is called Hermendel,
or the Dwelling of God. Some 600 priests are attached to its service, and comfortable dwellings
are provided for them out of the voluntary contributions of the devotees who visit the temple.
Although the priests are regarded with infinite respect, they are not absolutely free from
vice. When they have money, they spend it as freely as they have gained it. The number of pretty
women who daily repair to the temple is very great. They far excel the women of the inferior
classes in Hindustan in the elegance of their manners, their fine proportions, and handsome
features."

Lahore was next visited by the officer. It is interesting to know what remained of that fine
city at the commencement of the present century. The narrative says:--

"Its very high walls are ornamented externally with all the profusion of Eastern taste, but
they are falling into ruins, as are also the mosques and houses inside the town. Time has laid
its destructive hand upon this city, as upon Delhi and Agra. The ruins of Lahore are already
as extensive as those of that ancient capital."

Three days after his arrival the traveller was received with great politeness by Runjeet Sing,
who conversed with him, principally upon military topics. The rajah was then twenty-seven years
of age. His countenance would have been pleasant, had not the small-pox deprived him of one
eye; his manners were simple, affable, and yet kingly. After paying visits to the tomb of Shah
Jehan, to the Schalamar, and other monuments at Lahore, the officer returned to Delhi and the
possessions of the Company. To his visit was due that better knowledge of the country which
could not fail to tempt the ambition of the English Government.

The following year (1809), an embassy, consisting of Messrs. Nicholas Hankey Smith, Henry Ellis,
Robert Taylor, and Henry Pottinger, was sent to the Emirs of Scinde. The escort was commanded
by Captain Charles Christie.

The mission was transported to Keratchy by boat. The governor of that fort refused to allow
the embassy to disembark, without instructions from the emirs. An interchange of correspondence
ensued, as a result of which the envoy, Smith, drew attention to certain improprieties relating
to the title and respective rank of the Governor-General and the emirs. The governor excused
himself upon the ground of his ignorance of the Persian language, and said, that not wishing
a cause of misunderstanding to exist, he was quite ready to kill or put out the eyes (as the
envoy pleased) of the person who had written the letter. This declaration appeared sufficient
to the English, who deprecated the execution of the guilty person.

In their letters the emirs affected a tone of contemptuous superiority; at the same time they
brought a body of 8000 men within reach, and put every possible difficulty in the way of the
English efforts to procure information. After tedious negotiations, in the course of which
British pride was humbled more than once, the embassy received permission to start for Hyderabad.

Above Keratchy, which is the principal export harbour of Scinde, a vast plain without trees
or vegetation extends along the coast. Five days are necessary to cross this, and reach Tatah,
the ancient capital of Scinde, then ruined and deserted. Formerly it was brought into communication
by means of canals, with the Sind, an immense river, which is, at its mouth, in reality an
arm of the sea. Pottinger collected the most precise, complete, and useful details respecting
the Sind, which were then known.

It had been arranged beforehand that the embassy should find a plausible excuse for separating
and reaching Hyderabad by two different routes, in order to obtain geographical information
on the country. The city was soon reached, and the same difficult negotiations about the reception
of the embassy, who refused to submit to the humiliating exactions of the emirs, had to be
gone through. Pottinger thus describes the arrival at Hyderabad. "The precipice upon which
the eastern façade of the fortress of Hyderabad is situated, the roofs of the houses, and even
the fortifications, were thronged by a multitude of both sexes, who testified friendly feeling
towards us by acclamation and applause. Upon reaching the palace, where they were to dismount,
the English were met by Ouli Mahommed Khan and other eminent officers, who walked before us
towards a covered platform, at the extremity of which the emirs were seated. This platform
being covered with the richest Persian carpet, we took off our shoes. From the moment the envoy
took the first step towards the princes, they all three rose, and remained standing until he
reached the place pointed out to him--an embroidered cloth, which distinguished him from the
rest of the embassy. The princes addressed to each of us polite questions respecting our health.
As it was a purely ceremonial reception, everything went off well, with compliments and polite
expressions.

"The emirs wore a great number of precious stones, in addition to those which ornamented the
hilts and scabbards of their swords and daggers, and emeralds and rubies of extraordinary size
shone at their girdles. They were seated according to age, the eldest in the centre, the second
to his right, the youngest on the left. A carpet of light felt covered the entire circle, and
over this was a mattress of silk about an inch thick, exactly large enough to accommodate the
three princes."

The narrative concludes with a description of Hyderabad, a fortress which would have scarcely
been able to offer any resistance to a European enemy, and with various reflections upon the
nature of the embassy, which had amongst other aims the closing of the entrance of Scinde against
the French. The treaty concluded, the English returned to Bombay.

By this expedition the East India Company gained a better knowledge of one of the neighbouring
kingdoms, and collected precious documents relating to the resources and productions of a country
traversed by an immense river, the Indus of the ancients, which rises in the Himalayas, and
might readily serve to transport the products of an immense territory. The end gained was perhaps
rather political than geographical; but science profited, once more, by political needs.

Hitherto the little knowledge that had been gained of the regions lying between Cabulistan,
India, and Persia, had been as incomplete as it was defective.

The Company, thoroughly satisfied with the manner in which Captain Christie and Lieutenant
Pottinger had accomplished their embassy, resolved to confide to them a delicate and difficult
mission. They were to rejoin General Malcolm, ambassador to Persia, by crossing Beluchistan,
and in so doing to collect more accurate and precise details of that vast extent of country
than had hitherto been acquired.

It was useless to think of crossing Beluchistan, with its fanatic population, in European dress.
Christie and Pottinger, therefore, had recourse to a Hindu merchant, who provided horses on
behalf of the Governments of Madras and Bombay, and accredited them as his agents to Kelat,
the capital of Beluchistan.

Upon the 2nd of January, 1810, the two officers embarked at Bombay for Someany, the sole sea-port
of the province of Lhossa, which they reached after a stay at Poorbunder, on the coast of Guzerat.

The entire country traversed by the travellers before they arrived at Bela was a morass, interspersed
with jungle. The "Djam," or governor of that town, was an intelligent man. He put numerous
questions to the English, by which he showed a desire to learn, and then confided the task
of conducting the travellers to Kelat, to the chief of the tribe of Bezendjos, who are Belutchis.

The climate had changed since they left Bombay, and in the mountains, Pottinger and Christie
experienced cold sufficiently keen to freeze the water in the leather bottles.

"Kelat," says Pottinger, "the capital of the whole of Beluchistan, whence it derives its name,
Kelat, or the city, is situated upon a height to the west of a well-cultivated plain or valley,
eight miles long and three wide. The greater portion of this is laid out in gardens. The town
forms a square. It is surrounded on three sides by a mud wall about twenty feet high, flanked,
at distances of 250 feet, by bastions, which, like the walls, are pierced with a large number
of barbicans for musketry. I had no opportunity of visiting the interior of the palace, but
it consists merely of a confused mass of mud buildings with flat roofs like terraces; the whole
is defended by low walls, furnished with parapets and pierced with barbicans. There are about
2500 houses in the town, and nearly half as many in the suburbs. They are built of half-baked
bricks and wood, the whole smeared over with mud. The streets, as a rule, are larger than those
in towns inhabited by Asiatics. They usually have a raised footway on either side for pedestrians,
in the centre an open stream, which is rendered very unpleasant by the filth and rubbish thrown
into it, and by the stagnant rainwater which collects, for there is no regulation insisting
upon it being cleaned. Another obstacle to the cleanliness and comfort of the town exists in
the projection of the upper stories of the houses, which makes the under buildings damp and
dark. The bazaar of Kelat is very large, and well stocked with every kind of merchandize. Every
day it is supplied with provisions, vegetables, and all kinds of food, which are cheap."

According to Pottinger's account, the population is divided into two distinct classes--the
Belutchis and the Brahouis, and each of these is subdivided into a number of tribes. The first
is related to the modern Persian, both in appearance and speech; the Brahoui, on the contrary,
retains a great number of Hindu words. Intermarriage between the two has given rise to a third.

The Belutchis, coming from the mountains of Mekram, are "Tunnites," that is to say, they consider
the first four Imans as the legitimate successors of Mahomet.

They are a pastoral people, and have the faults and virtues of their class. If they are hospitable,
they are also indolent, and pass their time in gambling and smoking. As a rule, they content
themselves with one or two wives, and are less jealous of their being seen by strangers than
are other Mussulmen. They have a large number of slaves of both sexes, whom they treat humanely.
They are excellent marksmen, and passionately fond of hunting. Brave under all circumstances,
they take pleasure in "razzias," which they call "tchépaos." As a rule, these expeditions are
undertaken by the Nherouis, the wildest and most thievish of the Belutchis.

The Brahouis carry their wandering habits still farther. Few men are more active and strong;
they endure the glacial cold of the mountains equally with the burning heat of the plains.
They are of small stature, but as brave, as skilful in shooting, as faithful to their promises,
as the Belutchis, and have not so pronounced a taste for plunder.

Pottinger says, "I have seen no Asiatic people whom they resemble, for a large number have
brown hair and beards."

After a short stay at Kelat, the two travellers, who still passed as horse-dealers, resolved
to continue their journey, but instead of following the high road to Kandahar, they crossed
a dreary and barren country, ill-populated, watered by the Caisser, a river which dries up
during the summer; and they reached a little town, called Noschky or Nouchky, on the frontier
of Afghanistan.

At this place, the Belutchis, who appeared friendly, represented to them the great difficulty
of reaching Khorassan and its capital, Herat, by way of Sedjistan. They advised the travellers
to try to reach Kerman by way of Kedje and Benpor, or by Serhed, a village on the western frontier
of Beluchistan, and from thence to enter Nermanchir. At the same moment the idea of following
two distinct routes presented itself to both Christie and Pottinger. This course was contrary
to their instructions; "but," said Pottinger, "we found a ready excuse in the unquestionable
advantage which would result from our procuring more extensive geographical and statistical
knowledge of the country we were sent to explore than we could hope to do by travelling together."

Christie set out first, by way of Douchak. We shall follow his fortunes hereafter.

A few days later, while still at Noutch, Pottinger received letters from his correspondent
at Kelat, telling him that the emirs of Scinde were searching for them, as they had been recognized,
and that his best plan for safety was to set out immediately.

Upon the 25th of March Pottinger started for Serawan, a very small town near the Afghan frontier.
Upon his way thither Pottinger met with some singular altars, or tombs, the construction of
which was attributed to the Ghebers, or fire-worshippers, who are known in our day as Parsees.

Serawan is six miles from the Serawani mountains, in a sterile and bare district. This town
owes its existence to the constant supply of water it derives from the Beli, an inestimable
advantage in a country constantly exposed to drought, scarcity, and famine.

Pottinger afterwards visited the Kharan, celebrated for the strength and activity of its camels,
and crossed the desert which forms the southern extremity of Afghanistan. The sand of this
desert is so fine that its particles are almost impalpable, and the action of the wind causes
it to accumulate into heaps ten or twenty feet high, divided by deep valleys. Even in calm
weather a great number of particles float in the air, giving rise to a mirage of a peculiar
kind, and getting into the traveller's eyes, mouth, and nostrils, cause an excessive irritation,
with an insatiable thirst.

In all this territory, Pottinger personated a "pyrzadeh," or holy man, for the natives are
of a very thievish disposition, and in the character of a merchant he might have been involved
in unpleasant adventures. After leaving the village of Goul, in the district of Daizouk, the
traveller passed through the ruined towns of Asmanabad, Hefter, and Pourah, where Pottinger
was forced to admit that he was a "Feringhi," to the great scandal of the guide, who during
the two months they had been together had never doubted him, and to whom he had given many
proofs of sanctity.

At last, worn out by fatigue, and at the end of his resources, Pottinger reached Benpor, a
locality which had been visited in 1808 by Mr. Grant, a captain in the Bengal Sepoy Infantry.
Encouraged by the excellent account given by that officer, Pottinger presented himself to the
Serdar. But instead of affording him the necessary help for the prosecution of his journey,
that functionary, discontented with the small present Pottinger offered him, found means to
extort from him a pair of pistols, which would have been of great use to him.

Basman is the last inhabited town of Beluchistan. At this spot there is a hot sulphureous spring,
which the Belutchis consider a certain cure for cutaneous diseases.

The frontiers of Persia are far from "scientific," hence a large tract of country remains not
neutral, but a subject of dispute, and is the scene of sanguinary contests.

The little town of Regan, in Nermanchir, is very pretty. It is a fort, or rather a fortified
village, surrounded by high walls, in good repair, and furnished with bastions.

Further on, in Persia proper, lies Benn, a town which was formerly of importance, as the ruins
which surround it sufficiently prove. Here Pottinger was cordially received by the governor.

"On approaching," says Pottinger, "he turned to one of his suite and asked where the 'Feringhi'
was. I was pointed out to him. Making me a sign to follow him, his fixed look at me, which
took me in from head to foot, proclaimed his astonishment at my costume, which in truth was
strange enough to serve as an excuse for the impoliteness of his staring. I was wearing the
long shirt of a Belutchi, and a pair of trousers which had once been white, but which in the
six weeks I had worn them had become brown, and were all but in rags; in addition to this I
had on a blue turban, a piece of rope served me as a girdle, and I carried in my hand a thick
stick, which had assisted me greatly in my walking, and protected me from dogs."

In spite of the dilapidated appearance of the tatterdemalion who thus presented himself before
him, the governor received Pottinger with as much cordiality as was to be expected from a Mussulman,
and provided him with a guide to Kerman. The traveller reached that town upon the 3rd of May,
feeling that he had accomplished the most difficult portion of his journey, and was almost
in safety.

Kerman is the capital of ancient Karamania. Under the Afghan rule it was a flourishing town,
and manufactured shawls which rivalled those of Cashmere.

Here Pottinger witnessed one of those spectacles which, common enough to countries where human
life is of little value, always fill Europeans with horror and disgust. The governor of this
town was both son-in-law and nephew of the shah, and also the son of the Shah's wife. "Upon
the 15th of May," says Pottinger, "the prince himself judged certain persons who were accused
of killing one of their servants. It is difficult to estimate the state of restlessness and
alarm which prevailed in the village during the entire day. The gates of the town were shut,
that no one might pass out. The government officials did not transact any business. People
were cited as witnesses, without previous notice. I saw two or three taken to the palace in
a state of agitation which could scarcely have been greater had they been going to the scaffold.
About three in the afternoon the prince passed sentence upon those who had been convicted.
Some had their eyes put out, some the tongue split. Some had the ears, nose, and lips cut off;
others were deprived of their hands, fingers, or toes. I learned that whilst these horrible
punishments were inflicted, the prince remained seated at the window where I had seen him,
and gave his orders without the least sign of compassion or of horror at the scene which took
place before him."

Leaving Kerman, Pottinger reached Cheré Bebig, which is equally distant from Yezd, Shiraz,
and Kerman, and thence proceeded to Ispahan, where he had the pleasure of finding his companion
Christie. At Meragha he met General Malcolm. It was now seven months since they had left Bombay.
Christie had traversed 2250 miles, and Pottinger 2412. Meanwhile Christie had accomplished
his perilous journey much better than he had anticipated.

Leaving Noutch upon the 22nd of March, he crossed the Vachouty mountains and some uncultivated
country, to the banks of the Helmend, a river which flows into Lake Hamoun.

Christie in his report to the Company says:--

"The Helmend, after passing near Kandahar, flows south-west and west, and enters Sedjestan
some four days march from Douchak; making a détour around the mountains, it finally forms a
lake. At Peldalek, which we visited, it is about 1200 feet in width, and very deep; the water
is very good. The country is cultivated by irrigation for half a mile on either side; then
the desert begins, and rises in perpendicular cliffs. The banks of the river abound in tamarind-trees
and provide pasturage for cattle."

Sedjestan, which is watered by this river, comprises only 500 square miles. The portions of
this district which are inhabited are those upon the river Helmend, whose bed deepens every year.

At Elemdar Christie sent for a Hindu, to whom he had an introduction. This man advised him
to dismiss his Belutchi attendants and to personate a pilgrim. A few days later he penetrated
to Douchak, now known as Jellalabad. He says:--

"The ruins of the ancient city cover quite as large a space of ground as Ispahan. It was built,
like all the towns of Sedjistan, of half-burned bricks, the houses being two stories high,
with vaulted roofs. The modern town of Jellalabad is clean, pretty, and growing; it contains
nearly 2000 houses and a fair bazaar." The road from Douchak to Herat was easy. Christie's
sole difficulty was in carrying out his personation of a pilgrim. Herat lies in a valley, surrounded
by high mountains and watered by a river, to which it is due that gardens and orchards abound.
The town covers an area of about four square miles; it is surrounded by a wall flanked with
towers, and a moat full of water. Large bazaars, containing numerous shops, and the Mechedé
Djouna, or Mosque of Friday, are its chief ornaments.

No town has less waste land or a denser population. Christie estimates it at 100,000. Herat
is the most commercial of all Asiatic towns under the dominion of native princes. It is the
depôt for all the traffic between Cabul, Candahar, Hindustan, Cashmere, and Persia, and itself
produces choice merchandize, silks, saffron, horses, and asafoetida.

"This plant," says Christie, "grows to a height of two or three feet, the stalk is two inches
thick; it finishes off in an umbel which at maturity is yellow, and not unlike a cauliflower.
It is much relished by Hindus and Belutchis. They prepare it for eating by cooking the stalks
in ashes, and boiling the head like other vegetables; but it always retains its pungent smell
and taste." Herat, like so many other Eastern towns, possesses beautiful public gardens, but
they are only cultivated for the sake of the produce, which is sold in the bazaar. After a
stay of a month at Herat, disguised as a horse-dealer, Christie, announcing that he would return
after a pilgrimage to Meshid, which he contemplated, left the town. He directed his course
to Yezd, across a country ravaged by the Osbeks, who had destroyed the tanks intended to receive
the rain-water.

Yezd is a large and populous town on the skirts of a desert of sand. It is called "Dar-oul-Ehabet"
or "The Seat of Adoration." It is celebrated for the security to be enjoyed there, which contributes
largely to the development of its trade with Hindustan, Khorassan, Persia, and Bagdad. Christie
describes the bazaar as large and well stocked. The town contains 20,000 houses, apart from
those belonging to the Ghebers, who are estimated at 4000. They are an active and laborious
people, although cruelly oppressed. From Yezd to Ispahan, where he alighted at the palace of
the Emir Oud-Daoulé, Christie had travelled a distance of 170 miles upon a good road.

At Yezd, as we have seen, he met his companion, Pottinger. The two friends could but exchange
mutual congratulations at the accomplishment of their mission, and their escape from the dangers
of a fanatical country.

Pottinger's narrative, as may perhaps be gathered from the sketch we have given, was very curious.
More exact than most of his predecessors, he had collected and offered to the public a mass
of most interesting historical facts, anecdotes, and geographical descriptions.

Cabulistan had been, from the middle of the eighteenth century, the scene of a succession of
ruinous civil wars. Competitors, with more or less right to the throne, had carried fire and
sword everywhere, and converted that rich and fertile province into a desert, where the remains
of ruined cities alone bore witness to former prosperity.

About the year 1808 the throne of Cabul was occupied by Soojah-Oul-Moulk. England, uneasy at
the projects formed by Napoleon with a view of attacking her possessions in India, and at the
offers of alliance made by him through General Gardane to the Shah of Persia, resolved to send
an embassy to the court of Cabul, hoping to gain the king over to the interests of the East
India Company.

Mountstuart Elphinstone was selected as envoy, and has left an interesting account of his mission.
He collected much novel information concerning this region and the tribes by which it is peopled.
His book acquires a new interest in our own day, and we turn with pleasure to pages devoted
to the Khyberis and other mountain tribes, amid the events which are now taking place.

Leaving Delhi in October, 1808, Elphinstone reached Kanun, where the desert commences, and
then the Shekhawuttée, a district inhabited by Rajpoots. At the end of October the embassy
arrived at Singuana, a pretty town, the rajah of which was an inveterate opium-smoker. He is
described as a small man, with large eyes, much inflamed by the use of opium. His beard, which
was curled up to his ears on each side, gave him a ferocious appearance.

Djounjounka, whose gardens give freshness in the midst of these desert regions, is not now
a dependency of the Rajah of Bekaneer, whose revenues do not exceed 1,250,000 francs. How is
it possible for that prince to collect such revenues from a desert and uncultivated territory,
overrun by myriads of rats, flocks of gazelles, and herds of wild asses?

The path across the sand-hills was so narrow that two camels abreast could scarcely pass it.
At the least deviation from the path those animals would sink in the sand as if it had been
snow, so that the smallest difficulty with the head of the column delayed the entire caravan.
Those in front could not advance if those in the rear were delayed; and lest they should lose
sight of the guides, trumpets and drums were employed as signals to prevent separation.

One could almost fancy it the march of an army. The warlike sounds, the brilliant uniforms
and arms, were scarcely calculated to convey the idea of a peaceful embassy. The envoy speaks
of the want of water, and the bad quality of that which was procurable was unbearable to the
soldiers and servants. Although they quenched their thirst with the abundant water-melons,
they could not do so without ill results to their health. Most of the natives of India who
accompanied the embassy suffered from low fever and dysentery. Forty persons died during the
first week's stay at Bekaneer. La Fontaine's description of the floating sticks might be aptly
applied to Bekaneer. "From afar off it is something, near at hand it is nought." The external
appearance of the town is pleasant, but it is a mere disorderly collection of cabins enclosed
by mud walls.

At that time the country was invaded by five armies, and the belligerents sent a succession
of envoys to the English ambassador, hoping to obtain, if not substantial assistance, at least
moral support. Elphinstone was received by the Rajah of Bekaneer. "This court," he says, "was
different from all I had seen elsewhere in India. The men were whiter than the Hindus, resembled
Jews in feature, and wore magnificent turbans. The rajah and his relatives wore caps of various
colours, adorned with precious stones.

"The rajah leant upon a steel buckler, the centre of which was raised, and the border encrusted
with diamonds and rubies. Shortly after our entrance the rajah proposed that we should retire
from the heat and importunity of the crowd. We took our seats on the ground, according to Indian
custom, and the rajah delivered a discourse, in which he said he was the vassal of the sovereign
of Delhi, and that as Delhi was in the possession of the British, he honoured the sovereignty
of my government in my person.

"He caused the keys of the fort to be brought to him and handed them to me, but having received
no instructions regarding such an event, I refused them. After much persuasion the rajah consented
to keep his keys. Shortly afterwards a troop of bayadères came in, and dancing and singing
continued until we took our leave."

Upon leaving Bekaneer the travellers entered a desert, in the middle of which stand the cities
of Monyghur and Bahawulpore, where a compact crowd awaited the embassy. The Hyphases, upon
which Alexander's fleet sailed, scarcely answered to the idea such a reminiscence inspires.
Upon the morrow Bahaweel-Khan, governor of one of the eastern provinces of Cabul, arrived,
bringing magnificent presents for the English ambassador, whom he conducted by the river Hyphases
as far as Moultan, a town famous for its silk manufactures. The governor of the town had been
terror-struck at hearing of the approach of the English, and there had been a discussion as
to the attitude it was to assume, and whether the latter intended to take the town by stratagem,
or to demand its surrender. When these fears were allayed, a cordial welcome followed.

Elphinstone's description, if somewhat exaggerated, is not the less curious. After describing
how the governor saluted Mr. Strachey, the secretary to the embassy, after the Persian custom,
he adds,--"They took their way together towards the tent, and the disorder increased. Some
were wrestling, others on horseback mixed with the pedestrians. Mr. Strachey's horse was nearly
thrown to the ground, and the secretary regained his equilibrium with difficulty. The khan
and his suite mistook the road in approaching the tent, and threw themselves upon the cavalry
with such impetuosity that the latter had scarcely time to face about and let them pass. The
disordered troops fell back upon the tent, the servants of the khan fled, the barriers were
torn up and trampled under foot; even the ropes of the tent broke, and the cloth covering very
nearly fell on our heads. The tents were crowded immediately, and all was in darkness. The
governor and six of his suite seated themselves, the others stood at arms. The visit was of
short duration; the governor took refuge in repeating his rosary with great fervour, and in
saying to me, in agitated tones, 'You are welcome! you are welcome!' Then on the pretext that
the crowd inconvenienced me, he retired."

The account is amusing, but are all its details accurate? That, however, is of little moment.
On the 31st December the embassy passed the Indus, and entered a country cultivated with a
care and method unlike anything to be seen in Hindustan. The natives of this country had never
heard of the English, and took them for Moguls, Afghans, or Hindus. The strangest reports were
current among these lovers of the marvellous.

It was necessary to remain a month at Déra, to await the arrival of a "Mehnandar," a functionary
whose duty it was to introduce ambassadors. Two persons attached to the embassy availed themselves
of that opportunity to ascend the peak of Tukhte Soleiman, or the Crown of Solomon, upon which,
according to the legend, the ark of Noah rested after the deluge.

The departure from Déra took place upon the 7th of February, and after travelling through delightful
countries, the embassy arrived at Peshawur. The king had come to meet them, for Peshawur was
not the usual residence of the court. The narrative says,--"Upon the day of our arrival our
dinner was furnished from the royal kitchen. The dishes were excellent. Afterwards we had the
meat prepared in our own way; but the king continued to provide us with breakfast, dinner,
and supper, more than sufficient for 2000 persons, 200 horses, and a large number of elephants.
Our suite was large, and much of this was needed; still I had great trouble at the end of a
month in persuading his majesty to allow some retrenchment of this useless profusion."

As might have been expected, the negotiations preceding presentation at court were long and
difficult. Finally, however, all was arranged, and the reception was as cordial as diplomatic
customs permitted. The king was loaded with diamonds and precious stones; he wore a magnificent
crown, and the Koh-i-noor sparkled upon one of his bracelets. This is the largest diamond in
existence; a drawing of it may be seen in Tavernier's Travels.[1]

[Footnote 1: The Koh-i-noor is now in the possession of the Queen of England.]

Elphinstone, after describing the ceremonies, says,--"I must admit that if certain things,
especially the extraordinary richness of the royal costume, excited my astonishment, there
was also much that fell below my expectations. Taking it as a whole, one saw less indication
of the prosperity of a powerful state than symptoms of the decay of a monarchy which had formerly
been flourishing."

The ambassador goes on to speak of the rapacity with which the king's suite quarrelled about
the presents offered by the English, and gives other details which struck him unpleasantly.

Elphinstone was more agreeably impressed with the king at his second interview. He says,--"It
is difficult to believe that an Eastern monarch can possess such a good manner, and so perfectly
preserve his dignity while trying to please."

The plain of Peshawur, which is surrounded on all but the eastern side by high mountains, is
watered by three branches of the Cabul river, which meet here, and by many smaller rivers.
Hence it is singularly fertile. Plums, peaches, pears, quinces, pomegranates, dates, grow in
profusion. The population, so sparsely sprinkled throughout the arid countries which the ambassador
had come through, were collected here, and Lieut. Macartney counted no less than thirty-two
villages.

At Peshawur there are 100,000 inhabitants, living in brick houses three stories high. Various
mosques, not in any way remarkable for architecture, a fine caravanserai, and the fortified
castle in which the king received the embassy, are the only buildings of importance. The varieties
of races, with different costumes, present a constantly changing picture, a human kaleidoscope,
which appears made especially for the astonishment of a stranger. Persians, Afghans, Kyberis,
Hazaurehs, Douranis, &c., with horses, dromedaries, and Bactrian camels, afford the naturalist
much both to observe and to describe respecting bipeds and quadrupeds. But the charm of this
town, as of every other throughout India, is to be found in its gardens, with their abundant
and fragrant flowers, especially roses.

The king's situation at this time was far from pleasant. His brother, whom he had dethroned
after a popular insurrection, had now taken arms and just seized Cabul. A longer stay was impossible
for the embassy. They had to return to India by way of Attock and the valley of Hussoun Abdoul,
which is celebrated for its beauty. There Elphinstone was to await the result of the struggle
between the brothers, which would decide the fate of the throne of Cabul, but he had received
letters of recall. Moreover, fate was against Soojah, who, after being completely worsted,
had been forced to seek safety in flight.

The embassy proceeded on its way, and crossed the country of the Sikhs--a rude mountain race,
half-naked and semi-barbarous.

"The Sikhs, who a few years later were to make themselves terribly famous," says Elphinstone,
"are tall, thin men, and very strong. Their garments consist of trousers which reach only half
way down the thigh. They wear cloaks of skins which hang negligently from the shoulder. Their
turbans are not large, but are very high and flattened in front. No scissors ever touch either
hair or beard. Their arms are bows and arrows or muskets. Men of rank have very handsome bows,
and never pay a visit without being armed with them. Almost the whole Punjab belongs to Runjeet
Sing, who in 1805 was only one among many chiefs in the country. At the time of our expedition,
he had acquired the sovereignty of the whole country occupied by the Sikhs, and had taken the
title of king."

No incident of any moment marked the return of the embassy to Delhi. In addition to the narrative
of events which had taken place before their eyes, its members brought back invaluable documents
concerning the geography of Afghanistan and Cabulistan, the climate, animals, and vegetable
and mineral productions of that vast country.

Elphinstone devotes several chapters of his narrative to the origin, history, government, legislation,
condition of the women, language, and commerce of these countries; facts that were largely
appropriated by the best informed newspapers when the recent English expedition to Afghanistan
was undertaken.

His work ends with an exhaustive treatise upon the tribes who form the population of Afghanistan,
and a summary of invaluable information respecting the neighbouring countries.

Elphinstone's narrative is curious, interesting, and valuable for many reasons, and may be
consulted in our own day with advantage.

The zeal of the East India Company was indefatigable. One expedition had no sooner returned
than another was started, with different instructions. It was highly important to be thoroughly
au fait of the ever-changing Asiatic policy, and to prevent coalition between the various native
tribes against the conquerors of the soil. In 1812, a new idea, and a more peaceful one, gave
rise to the journey of Moorcroft and Captain Hearsay to Lake Manasarowar, in the province of
the Un-dés, which is a portion of Little Thibet.

This time the object was to bring back a flock of Cashmere goats, whose long silk hair is used
in the manufacture of the world-famed shawls. In addition, it was proposed to disprove the
assertion of the Hindus that the source of the Ganges is beyond the Himalayas, in Lake Manasarowar.
A difficult and perilous task! It was first of all necessary to penetrate into Nepaul, whilst
the government of that country made such an attempt very difficult, and thence to enter a region
from which the natives of Nepaul are excluded, and with still greater reason the English.

The explorers disguised themselves as Hindu pilgrims. Their suite consisted of twenty-five
persons, one of whom pledged himself to walk in strides of four feet! This was certainly a
rough method of ascertaining the distance traversed!

Messrs. Moorcroft and Hearsay passed through Bareilly, and followed Webb's route as far as
Djosimath, which place they left on the 26th of May, 1812. They soon had to cross the last
chain of the Himalayas, with increasing difficulties, owing to the rarity of the villages,
which caused a scarcity of provisions and service, and the bad roads, at so great a height
above the level of the sea.

Nevertheless they saw Daba, where there is an important lamasery, Gortope, Maisar; and, a quarter
of a mile from Tirthapuri, curious hot springs.

The original narrative, which appeared in the "Annales des Voyages," speaks of this water as
flowing from two openings six inches in diameter in a calcareous plain some three miles in
extent, and which is raised in almost every direction from ten to twelve feet above the surrounding
country. It is formed of the earthy deposits left by the water in cooling. The water rises
four inches above the level of the plain. It is clear, and so warm that one cannot keep a hand
in it longer than a few minutes. It is surrounded by a thick cloud of smoke. The water, flowing
over a horizontal surface, hollows out basins of various shapes, which as they receive the
earthy deposits contract again. When they are filled up, the flow of the water again hollows
out a new reservoir, which in its turn becomes full. Flowing thus from one to the other, it
finally reaches the plain below. The deposit left by the water is as white as the purest stucco
close to the opening, a little further it becomes pale yellow, and further still saffron-coloured.
At the other spring it is first rose-coloured, and then dark red. These different colours are
to be found in the calcareous plain, and are no doubt the work of centuries.

Tirthapuri, the residence of a lama, is of great antiquity, and is a favourite rendezvous for
the faithful, as a wall more than 400 feet long and four wide, formed of stones upon which
prayers are inscribed, sufficiently testifies.

Upon the 1st of August the travellers left this place, hoping to reach Lake Manasarowar, and
leaving on the right Lake Rawan-rhad, which is supposed to be the source of the largest branch
of the Sutlej.

Lake Manasarowar lies at the foot of immense sloping prairies, to the south of the gigantic
mountains. This is the most venerated of all the sacred places of the Hindus, which is no doubt
owing to its distance from Hindustan, the dangers and fatigues of the journey, and the necessity
of pilgrims providing themselves with money and provisions. Hindu geographers regard this lake
as the source of the Ganges, the Sutlej, and the Kali rivers. Moorcroft had no doubt as to
the error of this assertion as regards the Ganges. Desiring to ascertain the truth as to the
other rivers, he explored the steep banks of the lake, and found a number of streams which
flowed into it, but none flowing out of it. It is possible that before the earthquake which
destroyed Srinagar, the lake had an outlet, but Moorcroft found no trace of it. The lake is
situated between the Himalayas and the Cailas chain, and is of irregular oblong shape, five
leagues long by four wide.

The end of the expedition was attained. Moorcroft and Hearsay returned towards India, passed
by Kangri, and saw Rawan-rhad; but Moorcroft was too weak, and could not continue the tour;
he regained Tirthapuri and Daba, and suffered a great deal in crossing the ghat which separates
Hindustan from Thibet.

The narrative describes the wind which comes from the snow-covered mountains of Bhutan as cold
and piercing, and the ascent of the mountain as long and painful, its descent slippery and
steep, making precautions necessary. "We suffered greatly," says the writer; "our goats escaped
by the negligence of their drivers, and climbed up to the edge of a precipice some hundred
feet in height. A mountaineer disturbing them from their perilous position, they began the
descent, running down a very steep incline. The hinder ones kicked up the stones, which, falling
with violence, threatened to strike the foremost. It was curious to note how cleverly they
managed to run, and avoid the falling stones."

Very soon the Gorkhalis, who had hitherto been content to place obstacles in the way of the
travellers, approached them with intent to stop them. For some time the firmness displayed
by the English kept them at bay; but at last, gaining courage from their numbers, they began
an attack.

"Twenty men," says Moorcroft, "threw themselves upon me. One seized me by my neck, and, pressing
his knees against me, tried to strangle me by tightening my cravat; another passed a cord round
my legs and pulled me from behind. I was on the point of fainting. My gun, upon which I was
leaning, escaped my hold; I fell; they dragged me up by my feet until I was nearly garotted.
When at last I rose, nothing could exceed the expression of fierce delight on the faces of
my conquerors. Fearing that I should attempt to escape, two soldiers held me by a rope and
gave me a blow from time to time, no doubt to remind me of my position. Mr. Hearsay had not
supposed that he should be attacked so soon; he was rinsing out his mouth when the hubbub began,
and did not hear my cries for help. Our men could not find the few arms we possessed; some
escaped, I know not how; the others were seized, amongst them Mr. Hearsay. He was not bound
as I was; they contented themselves with holding his arms."

The chief of this band of savages informed the two Englishmen that they had been recognized,
and were arrested for having travelled in the country in the disguise of Hindu pilgrims. A
fakir, whom Moorcroft had engaged as a goat-herd, succeeded in escaping, and took two letters
to the English authorities. Aid was sent, and on the 1st of November the prisoners were released.
Not only were excuses offered for their treatment, but what had been taken from them was returned,
and the Rajah of Nepaul gave them permission to leave his dominions. All's well that ends well!

To complete our sketch, we must give an account of Mr. Fraser's expedition to the Himalayas,
and Hodgson's exploration to the source of the Ganges, in 1817.

Captain Webb, as we have seen, had traced the course of that river past the valley of Dhoun,
to Cadjani, near Reital. Leaving this spot upon the 28th of May, 1817, Captain Hodgson reached
the source of the Ganges in three days, and proceeded to Gangautri. He found that the river
issues from a low arch in the midst of an enormous mass of frozen snow, more than 300 feet
high. The stream was already of considerable size, being no less than twenty-seven feet wide
and eighteen inches deep. In all probability the Ganges first emerged into the light at this spot.

Captain Hodgson wished to solve various questions; for example:--What was the length of the
river under the frozen snow? Is it the product of the melting of these snows? or did it spring
from the ground? But, wishing to explore further upwards than his guides advised, the traveller
sank into the snow up to his neck, and had to retrace his steps with great difficulty. The
spot from which the Ganges issues is situated 12,914 feet above the level of the sea, in the
Himalayas.

Hodgson also explored the source of the Jumna. At Djemautri the mass of snow from which the
river makes its escape is no less than 180 feet wide and more than forty feet deep, between
two perpendicular walls of granite. This source is situated on the south-east slope of the
Himalayas.

The extension of the British power in India was necessarily attended by considerable danger.
The various native States, many of which could boast of a glorious past, had only yielded in
obedience to the well-known political principle "divide and govern," ascribed to Machiavelli.
But the day might come when they would merge their rivalries and enmities, to make common cause
against the invader.

This was anything but a cheering prospect for the Company, whose policy it was to maintain
the system that had hitherto worked so well. Certain neighbouring States, still powerful enough
to regard the growth of the British power with jealousy, might serve as harbours of refuge
to the discontented, and become the centres of dangerous intrigues. Of all these neighbouring
States that which demanded the strictest surveillance was Persia, not only on account of its
contiguity to Russia, but because Napoleon was known to have designs in connexion with it which
nothing but his European wars prevented him from putting into execution.

In February, 1807, General Gardane, who had gained his promotion in the wars of the Republic,
and had distinguished himself at Austerlitz, Jena, and Eylau, was appointed Minister Plenipotentiary
to Persia, with instructions to ally himself with Shah Feth-Ali against England and Russia.
The selection was fortunate, for the grandfather of General Gardane had held a similar post
at the court of the shah. Gardane crossed Hungary, and reached Constantinople and Asia Minor;
but when he entered Persia, Abbas Mirza had succeeded his father Feth-Ali.

The new shah received the French ambassador with respect, loaded him with presents, and granted
certain privileges to Catholics and French merchants. These were, however, the only results
of the mission, which was thwarted by the English General Malcolm, whose influence was then
paramount; and Gardane, disheartened by finding all his efforts frustrated, and recognizing
that success was hopeless, returned to France the following year.

His brother Ange de Gardane, who had acted as his secretary, published a brief narrative of
the journey, containing several curious details respecting the antiquities of Persia, which
have been, however, largely supplemented by works brought out by Englishmen.

The French Consul, Adrien Dupré, attached to Gardane's mission, also published a work, under
the title of "Voyage en Perse, fait dans les années 1807 à 1809, en traversant l'Anatolie,
la Mésopotamie, depuis Constantinople jusqu'à l'extremité du golfe Persique et de là à Irwan,
suivi de détails sur les moeurs, les usages et le commerce des Persans, sur la cour de Téhéran
et d'une notice des tribus de la Perse." The book bears out the assertions of its title, and
is a valuable contribution to the geography and ethnography of Persia.

The English, who made a much longer stay in the country than the French, were better able to
collect the abundant materials at hand, and to make a judicious selection from them.

Two works were long held to be the chief authorities on the subject. One of these was by James
Morier, who availed himself of the leisure he enjoyed as secretary to the embassy to acquaint
himself with every detail of Persian manners, and on his return to England published several
Oriental romances, which obtained a signal success, owing to the variety and novelty of the
scenes described, and the fidelity to nature of every feature, however minute.

The second of the two volumes alluded to above was the large quarto work by John Macdonald
Kinneir, on the geography of Persia. This book, which made its mark, and left far behind it
everything previously published on the subject, not only gives, as its title implies, very
valuable information on the boundaries of the country, its mountains, rivers, and climate,
but also contains interesting and trustworthy details respecting its government, constitution,
army, commerce, animal, vegetable, and mineral productions, population, and revenue.

After giving an exhaustive and brilliant picture of the material and moral resources of the
Persian Empire, Kinneir goes on to describe its different provinces, quoting from the mass
of valuable documents accumulated by himself, thus making his work the most complete and impartial
yet issued.

Kinneir passed the years 1808 to 1814 in travelling about Asia Minor, Armenia, and Kurdistan;
and the different posts held by him during that period were such as to give him exceptional
opportunities for making observations and comparing their results. In his several capacities
as captain in the service of the Company, political agent to the Nawab of the Carnatic, or
private traveller, his critical acumen was never at fault; and his wide knowledge of Oriental
character and Oriental manners, enabled him to recognize the true significance of many an event
and many a revolution which would have escaped the notice of less experienced observers.

At the same time, William Price, also a captain in the East India Company's service, who had
been attached as interpreter and secretary to Sir William Gore Ouseley's embassy to Persia
in 1810, devoted himself to the study of the cuneiform character. Many had previously attempted
to decipher it, with results as various as they were ridiculous; and, like those of his predecessors
and contemporaries, Price's opinions were mere guess-work; but he succeeded in interesting
a certain class of students in this obscure branch of research, and may be said to have perpetuated
the theories of Niebuhr and other Orientalists.

To Price we owe an account of the journey of the English embassy to the Persian court, after
which he published two essays on the antiquities of Persepolis and Babylon.

Mr. Ouseley, who had accompanied his brother Sir William as secretary, availed himself of his
sojourn at the Court of Teheran to study Persian. His works do not, however, bear upon geography
or political economy, but treat only of inscriptions, coins, manuscripts, and literature--in
a word, of everything connected with the intellectual and material history of the country.
To him we owe an edition of Firdusi, and many other volumes, which came out at just the right
time to supplement the knowledge already acquired of the country of the Shah.

Another semi-Asiatic semi-European country was also now becoming known. This was the mountainous
district of the Caucasus. As early as the second half of the eighteenth century, John Anthony
Guldenstædt, a Russian doctor, had visited Astrakhan, and Kisliar on the Terek, at the most
remote boundary of the Russian possessions, entered Georgia, where the Czar Heraclius received
him with great respect, and penetrated to Tiflis and the country of the Truchmenes, finally
arriving at Imeritia. The next year, 1773, he visited the great Kabardia, the Oriental Kumania,
examined the ruins of Madjary, visited Tscherkask and Asov, discovered the mouth of the Don,
and was about to extend his researches to the Crimea when he was recalled to St. Petersburg.

Guldenstædt's travels have not been translated into French. Their author's career was cut short
by death before he had completed their revision for the press, and they were edited at St.
Petersburg by Henry Julius von Klaproth, a young Prussian, who afterwards explored the same
countries.

Klaproth, who was born at Berlin on the 11th October, 1783, gave proof at a very early age
of a special aptitude for the study of Oriental languages. At fifteen years old he taught himself
Chinese; and he had scarcely finished his studies at the Universities of Halle and Dresden,
when he began the publication of his "Asiatic Magazine." Invited to Russia by Count Potoki,
he was at once named Professor of Oriental Languages at the Academy of St. Petersburg.

Klaproth did not belong to the worthy race of book-worms who shut themselves up in their own
studies. He took a wider view of the nature of true knowledge, feeling that the surest way
to attain a thorough acquaintance with the languages of Asia and of Oriental manners and customs
was to study them on the spot. He therefore asked permission to accompany the ambassador Golowkin,
who was going to China overland; and the necessary credentials obtained, he started alone for
Siberia, making acquaintance with the Samoyèdes, the Tongouses, Bashkirs, Yakontes, Kirghizes,
and other of the Finnic and Tartar hordes which frequent these vast steppes, finally arriving
at Yakutsk, where he was soon joined by Golowkin. After a halt at Kiakta, the embassy crossed
the Chinese frontier on the 1st January, 1806.

The Viceroy of Mongolia, however, insisted upon the observance by the ambassador of certain
ceremonies which were considered by the latter degrading to his dignity; and neither being
disposed to yield, Golowkin set out with his suite to return to St. Petersburg. Klaproth, not
caring to retrace his steps, preferred to visit hordes still unknown to him, and he therefore
crossed the southern districts of Siberia, and collected during a journey extending over twenty
months, a large number of Chinese, Mandchoorian, Thibetan, and Mongolian books, which were
of service to him in his great work "Asia Polyglotta."

On his return to St. Petersburg he was invested with all the honours of the Academy; and a
little later, at the suggestion of Count Potoki, he was appointed to the command of an historical,
archæological, and geographical expedition to the Caucasus. Klaproth now passed a whole year
in journeys, often full of peril, amongst thievish tribes, through rugged districts, and penetrated
to the country traversed by Guldenstædt at the end of the previous century.

Klaproth's description of Tiflis is curious as compared with that of contemporary authors.
"Tiflis," he says, "so called on account of its mineral springs, is divided into three parts:
Tiflis properly so called, or the ancient town; Kala, or the citadel; and the suburb of Issni.
This town is built on the Kur, and the greater part of its outer walls is now in ruins. Its
streets are so narrow, that 'arbas,' as the lofty carriages so characteristic of Oriental places
are called, could only pass with difficulty down the widest, whilst in the others a horseman
would barely find room to ride. The houses, badly built of flints and bricks cemented with
mud, never last longer than about fifteen years." In Klaproth's time Tiflis boasted of two
markets, but everything was extremely dear, shawls and silk scarves manufactured in the neighbouring
Asiatic countries bringing higher prices than in St. Petersburg.

Tiflis must not be dismissed without a few words concerning its hot springs. Klaproth tells
us that the famous hot baths were formerly magnificent, but they are falling into ruins, although
some few remain; the floors of which are cased in marble. The waters contain very little sulphur
and are most salutary in their effects. The natives, especially the women, use them to excess,
the latter remaining in them several days, and even taking their meals in the bath.

The chief food of the people of Tiflis, at least in the mountainous districts, is the bhouri,
a kind of hard bread with a very disagreeable taste, prepared in a way repugnant to our sybarite
notions.

When the dough is sufficiently kneaded a bright clear fire of dry wood is made, in earthen
vessels four feet high by two wide, which are sunk in the ground. When the fire is burning
fiercely, the Georgians shake into it the vermin by which their shirts and red-silk breeches
are infested. Not until this ceremony has been performed do they throw the dough, which is
divided into pieces of the size of two clenched fists, into the pots. The dough once in, the
vessels are covered with lids, over which rags are placed, to make sure of all the heat being
kept in and the bread being thoroughly baked. It is, however, always badly done, and very difficult
of digestion.

Having thus assisted at the preparation of the food of the poor mountaineer, let us join Klaproth
at the table of a prince. A long striped cloth, about a yard and a half wide and very dirty,
was spread for his party; on this was placed for each guest an oval-shaped wheaten cake, three
spans long by two wide, and scarcely as thick as a finger. A number of little brass bowls,
filled with mutton and boiled rice, roast fowls, and cheese cut in slices, were then brought
in. As it was a fast day, smoked salmon with uncooked green vegetables was served to the prince
and his subjects. Spoons, forks, and knives are unknown in Georgia; soup is eaten from the
bowl, meat is taken in the hands, and torn with the fingers into pieces the size of a mouthful.
To throw a tid-bit to another guest is a mark of great friendship. The repast over, grapes
and dried fruits are eaten. During the meal a good red native wine, called traktir by the Tartars,
and ghwino by the Georgians, is very freely circulated. It is drunk from flat silver bowls
greatly resembling saucers.

Klaproth's account of the different incidents of his journey is no less interesting and vivid
than this description of the manners of the people. Take, for instance, what he says of his
trip to the sources of the Terek, the site of which had been pretty accurately indicated by
Guldenstædt, although he had not visited them.

"I left the village of Utzfars-Kan on the 17th March, on a bright but cold morning. Fifteen
Ossetes accompanied me. After half an hour's march, we began to climb the steep and rugged
ascent leading to the junction of the Utzfars-Don with the Terek. This was succeeded by a still
worse road, running for a league alongside of the river, which is scarcely ten paces wide here,
although it was then swollen by the melting of the snow. This part of the river banks is inhabited.
We continued to ascend, and reached the foot of the Khoki, also called Istir-Khoki, finally
arriving at a spot where an accumulation of large stones in the bed of the river rendered it
possible to cross over to the village of Tsiwratté-Kan, where we breakfasted. Here the small
streams forming the Terek meet. I was so glad to have reached the end of my journey, that I
poured a glass of Hungarian wine into the river, and made a second libation to the genius of
the mountain in which the Terek rises. The Ossetes, who thought I was performing a religious
ceremony, observed me gravely. On the smooth sides of an enormous block of schist I engraved
in red the date of my journey, together with my name and those of my companions, after which
I climbed up to the village of Ressi."

After this account of his journey, from which we might multiply extracts, Klaproth sums up
all the information he has collected on the tribes of the Caucasus, dwelling specially on the
marked resemblances which exist between the different Georgian dialects and those of the Finns
and Lapps. This was a new and useful suggestion.

Speaking of the Lesghians, who occupy the eastern Caucasus, known as Daghestan, or Lezghistan,
Klaproth says their name is a misnomer, just as Scythian or Tartar was used to indicate the
natives of Northern Asia; adding, that they do not form one nation, as is proved by the number
of dialects in use, which, however, would seem to have been derived from a common source, though
time has greatly modified them. This is a contradiction in terms, implying either that the
Lesghians, speaking one language, form one nation, or that forming one nation the Lesghians
speak various dialects derived from the same source.

According to Klaproth, Lesghian words have a considerable affinity with the other languages
of the Caucasus, and with those of Western Asia, especially the dialects of the Samoyedes and
Siberian Finns.

West and north-west of the Lesghians dwell the Metzdjeghis, or Tchetchentses, who are probably
the most ancient inhabitants of the Caucasus. This is not, however, the opinion of Pallas,
who looks upon them as a separate tribe of the Alain family. The Tchetchentse language greatly
resembles the Samoyede and other Siberian dialects, as well as those of the Slavs.

The Tcherkesses, or Circassians, are the Sykhes of the Greeks. They formerly inhabited the
eastern Caucasus and the Crimea. Their language differs much from other Caucasian idioms, although
the Tcherkesses proceed, with the Wogouls and the Ostiakes--we have just seen that the Lesghian
and Tchetchentse dialects resemble the Siberian--from one common stock, which at some remote
date separated into several branches, of which the Huns probably formed one. The Tcherkesse
dialect is one of the most difficult to pronounce, some of the consonants being produced in
a manner so loud and guttural that no European has yet been able to acquire it.

In the Caucasus also dwell the Abazes--who have never left the shores of the Black Sea, where
they have been settled from time immemorial--and the Ossetes, or As, who belong to the Indo-Germanic
stock. They call their country Ironistan, and themselves the Irons. Klaproth takes them to
be Sarmatic Medes, not only on account of their name, which resembles Iran, but because of
the structure of their language, which proves more satisfactorily than historical documents,
and in a most conclusive manner, that they spring from the same stock as the Medes and Persians.
This opinion, however, appears to us mere conjecture, as in the time of Klaproth the interpretation
of cuneiform inscriptions had not been accomplished, and too little was known of the language
of the Medes for any one to judge of its resemblance to the Ossete idiom.

"However," continues Klaproth, "after meeting again the Sarmatic Medes of the ancients in this
people, it is still more surprising also to recognize the Alains, who occupied the districts
north of the Caucasus."

He adds: "It follows from all we have said, that the Ossetes, who call themselves Irons, are
the Medes, who assumed the name of Irans, and whom Herodotus styles the Arioi. They are, moreover,
the Sarmatic Medes of the ancients, and belong to the Median colony founded in the Caucasus
by the Scythians. They are the As or Alains of the middle ages. And lastly, they are the Iasses
of Russian chronicles, from whom some of the Caucasus range took their name of the Iassic Mountains."
This is not the place to discuss identifications belonging to the realm of criticism. We will
content ourselves with adding to these remarks of Klaproth on the Ossete language, that its
pronunciation resembles that of the Low-German and Slavonic dialects.

The Georgians differ essentially from the neighbouring nations, alike in their language and
in their physical and moral qualities. They are divided into four principal tribes--the Karthalinians,
Mingrelians, and Shvans (or Swanians), inhabiting the southern range of the Caucasus, and the
Lazes, a wild robber tribe.

As we have seen, the facts collected by Klaproth are very curious, and throw an unexpected
light on the migration of ancient races. The penetration and sagacity of the traveller were
marvellous, and his memory was extraordinary. The scholar of Berlin rendered signal services
to the science of philology. It is to be regretted that his qualities as a man, his principles,
and his temper, were not on a level with his knowledge and acumen as a professor.

We must now leave the Old World for the New, and give an account of the explorations of the
young republic of the United States. So soon as the Federal Government was free from the anxieties
of war, and its position was alike established and recognized, public attention was directed
to the "fur country," which had in turn attracted the English, the Spanish, and the French.
Nootka Sound and the neighbouring coasts, discovered by the great Cook and the talented Quadra,
Vancouver, and Marchand, were American. Moreover, the Monroe doctrine, destined later to excite
so much discussion, already existed in embryo in the minds of the statesmen of the day.

In accordance with an Act of Congress, Captain Merryweather Lewis and Lieutenant William Clarke,
were commissioned to trace the Missouri, from its junction with the Mississippi to its source,
and to cross the Rocky Mountains by the easiest and shortest route, thus opening up communication
between the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Ocean. The officers were also to trade with any
Indian tribes they might meet.

The expedition was composed of regular troops and volunteers, numbering altogether, including
the leaders, forty-three men; one boat and two canoes completed the equipment.

On the 14th May, 1804, the Americans left Wood River, which flows into the Mississippi, and
embarked on the Missouri. From what Cass had said in his journal, the explorers expected to
have to contend with natural dangers of a very formidable description, and also to fight their
way amongst natives of gigantic stature, whose hostility to the white man was invincible.

During the first days of this long canoe voyage, only to be compared to those of Orellana and
Condamine on the Amazon, the Americans were fortunate enough to meet with some Sioux Indians,
an old Frenchman, a Canadian coureur des bois, or trapper, who spoke the languages of most
of the Missouri tribes, and consented to accompany the expedition as interpreter.

They passed the mouths of the Osage, Kansas, Platte or Nebraska, and White River, all tributaries
of the Missouri, successively, and met various parties of Osage and Sioux, or Maha Indians,
who all appeared to be in a state of utter degradation. One tribe of Sioux had suffered so
much from smallpox, that the male survivors, in a fit of rage and misery, had killed the women
and children spared by the terrible malady, and fled from the infected neighbourhood.

A little farther north dwelt the Ricaris, or Recs, at first supposed to be the cleanest, most
polite, and most industrious of the tribes the expedition met with; but a few thefts soon modified
that favourable judgment. It is curious that these people do not depend entirely on hunting,
but cultivate corn, peas, and tobacco.

This is not, however, the case with the Mandans, who are a more robust race. A custom obtains
among them, also characteristic of Polynesia--they do not bury their dead, but expose them
on a scaffold.

Clarke's narrative gives us a few details relating to this strange tribe. The Mandans look
upon the Supreme Being only as an embodiment of the power of healing. As a result they worship
two gods, whom they call the Great Medicine or the Physician, and the Great Spirit. It would
seem that life is so precious to them that they are impelled to worship all that can prolong it!

Their origin is strange. They originally lived in a large subterranean village hollowed out
under the ground on the borders of a lake. A vine, however, struck its roots so deeply in the
earth as to reach their habitations, and some of them ascended to the surface by the aid of
this impromptu ladder. The descriptions given by them on their return of the vast hunting-grounds,
rich in game and fruit, which they had seen, led the rest of the tribe to resolve to reach
so favoured a land. Half of them had gained the surface, when the vine, bending beneath the
weight of a fat woman, gave way, and rendered the ascent of the rest impossible. After death
the Mandans expect to return to their subterranean home, but only those who die with a clear
conscience can reach it; the guilty will be flung into a lake.

The explorers took up their quarters for the winter amongst the Mandans, on the 1st of November.
They built huts, as comfortable as possible with the materials at their command; and in spite
of the extreme cold, gave themselves up to the pleasures of hunting, which soon became a positive
necessity of their existence.

When the ice should break up on the Missouri, the explorers hoped to continue their voyage;
but on their sending the boat down to St. Louis, laden with the skins and furs already obtained,
only thirty men were found willing to carry the expedition through to the end.

The travellers soon passed the mouth of the Yellowstone River, with a current nearly as strong
as that of the Missouri, flowing through districts abounding in game.

Cruel was their perplexity when they arrived at a fork where the Missouri divided into two
rivers of nearly equal volume, for which was the main stream? Captain Lewis with a party of
scouts ascended the southern branch, and soon came in sight of the Rocky Mountains, completely
covered with snow. Guided to the spot by a terrific uproar, he beheld the Missouri fling itself
in one broad sheet of water over a rocky precipice, beyond which it formed a broken series
of rapids, extending for several miles.

The detachment now followed this branch, which led them into the heart of the mountains, and
for three or four miles dashed along between two perpendicular walls of rock, finally dividing
itself into three parts, to which were given the names of Jefferson, Madison, and Galatin,
after celebrated American statesmen.

The last heights were soon crossed, and then the expedition descended the slopes overlooking
the Pacific. The Americans had brought with them a Soshone woman, who had been protected as
a girl by the Indians of the east, and not only did she serve the explorers faithfully as an
interpreter, but also, through her recognition of a brother in the chief of a tribe disposed
to be hostile, she from that moment secured cordial treatment for the white men. Unfortunately
the country was poor, the people living entirely on wild berries, bark, and the little game
they were able to obtain.

The Americans, little accustomed to this frugal fare, had to eke it out by eating their horses,
which had grown very thin, and buying all the dogs the natives would consent to sell. Hence
they obtained the nickname of Dog-eaters.

As the temperature became milder, so did the character of the natives, whilst food grew more
abundant; and as they came down the Oregon, also known as the Columbia, the salmon formed a
seasonable addition to the bill of fare. When the Columbia, which is dangerous for navigation,
approaches the sea, it forms a vast estuary, where the waves from the offing meet the current
of the river. The Americans more than once incurred considerable risk of being swallowed up,
with their frail canoe, before they reached the shores of the ocean.

Glad to have accomplished the aim of their expedition, the explorers wintered at the mouth
of the river, and when the fine weather set in they made their way back to St. Louis, arriving
there in May, 1806, after an absence of two years, four months, and ten days. They had in that
time, according to their own estimate, traversed less than 1378 leagues.

The impulse was now given, and reconnoitring expeditions in the interior of the new continent
rapidly succeeded each other, assuming, a little later, a scientific character which gives
them a position of their own in the history of discovery.

A few years later, one of the greatest colonizers of whom England can boast, Sir Stamford Raffles,
organizer of the expedition which took possession of the Dutch colonies, was appointed Military
Governor of Java. During an administration extending over five years, Raffles brought about
numerous reforms, and abolished slavery. Absorbing as was this work, however, it did not prevent
him from publishing two huge quarto volumes, which are as interesting as they are curious.
They contain, in addition to the history of Java, a vast number of details about the natives
of the interior, until then little known, together with much circumstantial information respecting
the geology and natural history of the country. It is no wonder, therefore, that in honour
of the man who did so much to make Java known, the name of Rafflesia should have been given
to an immense flower native to it, and of which some specimens measure over three feet in diameter,
and weigh some ten pounds.

Raffles was also the first to penetrate to the interior of Sumatra, of which the coast only
was previously known. He visited the districts occupied by the Passoumahs, sturdy tillers of
the soil, the northern provinces, with Memang-Kabou, the celebrated Malayan capital, and crossed
the southern half of the island, from Bencoulen to Palimbang.

Sir Stamford Raffles' fame, however rests principally upon his having drawn the attention of
the Indian Government to the exceptionally favourable position of Singapore, which was converted
by him into an open port, and grew rapidly into a prosperous settlement.

The power of Napoleon, and with it the supremacy of France, was scarcely overthrown--the Titanic
contests, to gratify the ambition of one man at the expense of the intellectual progress of
humanity, were scarcely at an end, before an honourable rivalry awoke once more, and new scientific
and commercial expeditions were set on foot. A new era had commenced.

Foremost in the ranks of the governments which organized and encouraged exploring expeditions
we find as usual that of England. It was in Central Africa, the vast riches of which had been
hinted at in the accounts given of their travels by Hornemann and Burckhardt, that the attention
of the English was now concentrated.

As early as 1816 Major Peddie, starting from Senegal, reached Kakondy, on the River Nuñez,
succumbing, however, to the fatigue of the journey and unhealthiness of the climate soon after
his arrival in that town. Major Campbell succeeded him in the command of the expedition, and
crossed the lofty mountains of Foota-Djalion, losing in a few days several men and part of
the baggage animals.

Arrived at the headquarters of the Almamy, as most of the kings of this part of Africa are
called, the expedition was detained for a long time, and only obtained permission to depart
on payment of a large sum.

Most disastrous was the return journey, for the explorers had not only to recross the streams
they had before forded with such difficulty, but they were subjected to so many insults, annoyances,
and exactions, that to put an end to them Campbell was obliged to burn his merchandize, break
his guns, and sink his powder.

Against so much fatigue and mortification, added to the complete failure of his expedition,
Major Campbell failed to bear up, and he died, with several of his officers, in the very place
where Major Peddie had closed his career. The few survivors of the party reached Sierra Leone
after an arduous march.

A little later, Ritchie and Captain George Francis Lyon, availing themselves of the prestige
which the siege of Algiers had brought to the British flag, and of the cordial relations which
the English consul at Tripoli had succeeded in establishing with the principal Moorish authorities,
determined to follow Hornemann's route, and penetrate to the very heart of Africa.

On the 25th March, 1819, the travellers left Tripoli with Mahommed el Moukni, Bey of Fezzan,
who is called sultan by his subjects. Protected by this escort, Ritchie and Lyon reached Murzuk
without molestation, but there the former died on the 2nd November, worn out by the fatigue
and privations of the journey across the desert. Lyon, who was ill for some time from the same
causes, recovered soon enough to foil the designs of the sultan, who counting on his death,
had already begun to take possession of his property, and also of Ritchie's. The captain could
not penetrate beyond the southern boundaries of Fezzan, but he had time to collect a good deal
of valuable information about the chief towns of that province and the language of its inhabitants.
To him we likewise owe the first authentic details of the religion, customs, language, and
extraordinary costumes of the Tuarick Arabs, a wild tribe inhabiting the Great Sahara desert.

Captain Lyon's narrative also contains a good deal of interesting information collected by
himself on Bornou, Wadai, and the Soudan, although he was unable to visit those places in person.

The results obtained did not by any means satisfy the English Government, which was most eager
to open up the riches of the interior to its merchants. Consequently the authorities received
favourably the proposals made by Dr. Walter Oudney, a Scotchman, whose enthusiasm had been
aroused by the travels of Mungo Park. This Dr. Oudney was a friend of Hugh Clapperton, a lieutenant
in the Navy, three years his senior, who had distinguished himself in Canada and elsewhere,
but had been thrown out of employment and reduced to half-pay by the peace of 1815.

Hearing of Oudney's scheme, Clapperton at once determined to join him in it, and Oudney begged
the minister to allow him the aid of that enterprising officer, whose special knowledge would
be of great assistance. Lord Bathurst made no objection, and the two friends, after receiving
minute instructions, embarked for Tripoli, where they ascertained that Major Denham was to
take the command of their expedition.

Denham was born in London on the 31st December, 1783, and began life as an articled pupil to
a country lawyer. As an attorney's clerk he found his duties so irksome and so little suited
to his daring spirit that his longing for adventure soon led him to enlist in a regiment bound
for Spain. Until 1815 he remained with the army, but after the peace he employed his leisure
in visiting France and Italy.

Denham, eager to obtain distinction, had chosen the career which would best enable him to achieve
it, even at the risk of his life, and he now resolved to become an explorer. With him to think
was to act. He had asked the minister to commission him to go to Timbuctoo by the route Laing
afterwards took when he heard of the expedition under Clapperton and Oudney; and he now begged
to be allowed to join them.

Without any delay Denham obtained the necessary equipment, and accompanied by a carpenter named
William Hillman, he embarked for Malta, joining his future travelling companions at Tripoli
on the 21st November, 1821. The English at this time enjoyed very great prestige, not only
in the States of Barbary, on account of the bombardment of Algiers, but also because the British
consul at Tripoli had by his clever diplomacy established friendly relations with the government
to which he was accredited.

This prestige extended beyond the narrow range of the northern states. The nationality of certain
travellers, the protection accorded by England to the Porte, the British victories in India
had all been vaguely rumoured even in the heart of Africa, and the name of Englishman, was
familiar without any particular meaning being attached to it. According to the English consul,
the route from Tripoli to Bornou was as safe as that from London to Edinburgh. This was, therefore,
the moment to seize opportunities which might not occur again.

The three travellers, after a cordial reception from the bey, who placed all his resources
at their disposal, lost no time in leaving Tripoli, and with an escort provided by the Moorish
governor, they reached Murzuk, the capital of Fezzan, on the 8th April, 1822, without difficulty,
having indeed been received with great enthusiasm in some of the places through which they
passed. This welcome was the more gratifying from the fact that the travellers were the first
Europeans to penetrate into Africa without wearing a disguise. Denham adds that he feels sure
their reception would have been far less cordial had they stooped to play the part of impostors
by attempting to pass for Mahommedans.

At Murzuk they were harassed by annoyances similar to those which had paralyzed Hornemann;
in their case, however, circumstances and character were alike different, and without allowing
themselves to be blinded by the compliments paid them by the sultan, the English, who were
thoroughly in earnest, demanded the necessary escort for the journey to Bornou.

It was impossible, they were told, to start before the following spring, on account of the
difficulty of collecting a kafila or caravan, and the troops necessary for its escort across
the desert.

A rich merchant, however, Boo-Bucker-Boo-Khaloum by name, a great friend of the pacha, gave
the explorers a hint that if he received certain presents he would smooth away all difficulties.
He even offered to escort them himself to Bornou, for which province he was bound if he could
obtain the necessary permission from the Pacha of Tripoli.

Denham, believing Boo-Khaloum to be acting honestly, went off to Tripoli to obtain the governor's
sanction, but on his arrival there he obtained only evasive answers, and finally threatened
to embark for England, where he said he would report the obstacles thrown in his way by the
pacha, in the carrying out of the objects of the exploring expedition.

These menaces produced no effect, and Denham actually set sail, and was about to land at Marseilles
when he received a satisfactory message from the bey, begging him to return, and authorizing
Boo-Khaloum to accompany him and his companions.

On the 30th October Denham rejoined Oudney and Clapperton at Murzuk, finding them considerably
weakened by fever and the effects of the climate.

Denham, convinced that change of air would restore them to health, persuaded them to start
and begin the journey by easy stages. He himself set out on the 20th of November with a caravan
of merchants from Mesurata, Tripoli, Sockna, and Murzuk, escorted by 210 Arab warriors chosen
from the most intelligent and docile of the tribes, and commanded by Boo-Khaloum.

The expedition took the route followed by Lyon and soon reached Tegerry, which is the most
southerly town of Fezzan, and the last before the traveller enters the desert of Bilma.

Denham made a sketch of the castle of Tegerry from the southern bank of a salt lake near the
town. Tegerry is entered by a low narrow vaulted passage leading to a gate in a second rampart.
The wall is pierced with apertures which render the entrance by the narrow passage very difficult.
Above the second gate there is also an aperture through which darts, and fire-brands may be
hurled upon the besiegers, a mode of warfare once largely indulged in by the Arabs. Inside
the town there are wells of fairly good water. Denham is of opinion that Tegerry restored,
well-garrisoned and provisioned, could sustain a long siege. Its situation is delightful. It
is surrounded by date-trees, and the water in the neighbourhood is excellent. A chain of low
hills stretches away to the east. Snipes, ducks, and wild geese frequent the salt lakes near
the town.

Leaving Tegerry, the travellers entered a sandy desert, across which it would not have been
easy to find the way, had it not been marked out by the skeletons of men and animals strewn
along it, especially about the wells.

"One of the skeletons we saw to-day," says Denham, "still looked quite fresh. The beard was
on the chin, the features could be recognized. 'It is my slave,' exclaimed one of the merchants
of the kafila. 'I left him near here four months ago.' 'Make haste and take him to the market!'
cried a facetious slave merchant, 'lest some one else should claim him.'"

Here and there in the desert are oases containing towns of greater or less importance, at which
the caravans halt. Kishi is one of the most frequented of these places, and there the money
for the right of crossing the desert is paid. The Sultan of Kishi, the ruler of a good many
of these petty principalities, and who takes the title of Commander of the Faithful, was remarkable
for a complete disregard of cleanliness, a peculiarity in which, according to Denham, his court
fully equalled him.

This sultan paid Boo-Khaloum a visit in his tent, accompanied by half a dozen Tibboos, some
of whom were positively hideous. Their teeth were of a dark yellow colour, the result of chewing
tobacco, of which they are so fond that they use it as snuff as well as to chew. Their noses
looked like little round bits of flesh stuck on to their faces with nostrils so wide that they
could push their fingers right up them. Denham's watch, compass, and musical snuffbox astonished
them not a little. He defines these people as brutes with human faces.

A little further on the travellers reached the town of Kirby, situated in a wâdy near a low
range of hills of which the highest are not more than 400 feet above the sea level, and between
two salt lakes, produced by the excavations made for building. From the centre of these lakes
rise islets consisting of masses of muriate and carbonate of soda. The salt produced by these
wâdys, or depressions of the soil, form an important article of commerce with Bornou and the
whole of the Soudan.

It would be impossible to imagine a more wretched place than Kirby. Its houses are empty, containing
not so much as a mat. How could it be otherwise with a place liable to incessant raids from
the Tuaricks?

The caravan now crossed the Tibboo country, inhabited by a peaceful, hospitable people to whom,
as keepers of the wells and reservoirs of the desert, the leaders of caravans pay passage-money.
The Tibboos are a strong, active race, and when mounted on their nimble steeds they display
marvellous skill in throwing the lance, which the most vigorous of their warriors can hurl
to a distance of 145 yards. Bilma is their chief city, and the residence of their sultan.

On the arrival of the travellers at Bilma, the sultan, escorted by a number of men and women,
came out to meet the strangers. The women were much better-looking than those in the smaller
towns; some of them had indeed very pleasant faces, their white, regular teeth contrasting
admirably with their shining black skins, and the three "triangular flaps of hair, streaming
with oil." Coral ornaments in their noses, and large amber necklaces round their throats, gave
them what Denham calls a "seductive appearance." Some of them carried fans made of grass or
hair, with which to keep off the flies; others were provided with branches of trees; all, in
fact, carried something in their hands, which they waved above their heads. Their costume consisted
of a loose piece of Soudan cloth, fastened on the left shoulder, and leaving the right uncovered,
with a smaller piece wound about the head, and falling on the shoulders or flung back. In spite
of this paucity of clothing, there was not the least immodesty in their bearing.

A mile from Bilma, and beyond a limpid spring, which appears to have been placed there by nature
to afford a supply of water to travellers, lies a desert, which it takes no less than ten days
to cross. This was probably once a huge salt lake.

On the 4th February, 1823, the caravan reached Lari, a town on the northern boundary of Bornou,
in lat. 14 degrees 40 minutes N. The inhabitants, astonished at the size of the "kafila," fled
in terror at its approach.

On leaving Lari, the appearance of the country changed completely. The sandy desert was succeeded
by a clay soil, clothed with grass and dotted with acacias and other trees of various species,
amongst which grazed herds of antelopes, whilst Guinea fowls and the turtle-doves of Barbary
flew hither and thither above them. Towns took the place of villages, with huts of the shape
of bells, thatched with durra straw.

The travellers continued their journey southwards, rounding Lake Tchad, which they had first
touched at its most northerly point.

The districts bordering on this sheet of water were of a black, firm, but muddy soil. The waters
rise to a considerable height in winter, and sink in proportion in the summer. The lake is
of fresh water, rich in fish, and frequented by hippopotami and aquatic birds. Near its centre,
on the south-east, are the islands inhabited by the Biddomahs, a race who live by pillaging
the people of the mainland.

The explorers had sent a messenger to Sheikh El Khanemy, to ask permission to enter his capital,
and an envoy speedily arrived to invite Boo-Khaloum and his companions to Kouka.

On their way thither, the travellers passed through Burwha, a fortified town which had thus
far resisted the inroads of the Tuaricks, and crossed the Yeou, a large river, in some parts
more than 500 feet in width, which, rising in the Soudan, flows into Lake Tchad.

On the southern shores of this river rises a little town of the same name, about half the size
of Burwha.

The caravan soon reached the gates of Kouka, where, after a journey extending over two months
and a half, they were received by a body of cavalry 4000 strong, under perfect discipline.
Amongst these troops was a corps of blacks forming the body-guard of the sheikh, whose equipments
resembled those of ancient chivalry.

They wore, Denham tells us, suits of chain armour covering the neck and shoulders. These were
fastened above the head, and fell in two portions, one in front and one behind, so as to protect
the flanks of the horse and the thighs of the rider. A sort of casque or iron coif, kept in
its place by red, white or yellow turbans, tied under the chin, completed the costume. The
horses' heads were also guarded by iron plates. Their saddles were small and light, and their
steel stirrups held only the point of the feet, which were clad in leather shoes, ornamented
with crocodile skin. The horsemen managed their steeds admirably, as, advancing at full gallop,
brandishing their spears, they wheeled right and left of their guests, shouting "Barca! Barca!"
(Blessing! Blessing!).

Surrounded by this brilliant and fantastic escort, the English and Arabs entered the town,
where a similar military display had been prepared in their honour.

They were presently admitted to the presence of Sheikh El-Khanemy, who appeared to be about
forty-five years old, and whose face was prepossessing, with a happy, intelligent, and benevolent
expression.

The English presented the letters of the pacha, and when the sheikh had read them, he asked
Denham what had brought him and his companions to Bornou.

"We came merely to see the country," replied Denham, "to study the character of its people,
its scenery, and its productions."

"You are welcome," was the reply; "it will be a pleasure to me to show you everything.

The travellers soon afterwards obtained permission to make collections of such animals and
plants as appeared to them curious, and to make notes of all their observations. They were
thus enabled to collect a good deal of information about the towns near Kouka.

Kouka, then the capital of Bornou, boasted of a market for the sale of slaves, sheep, oxen,
cheese, rice, earth-nuts, beans, indigo, and other productions of the country. There 100,000
people might sometimes be seen haggling about the price of fish, poultry, meat--the last sold
both raw and cooked--or that of brass, copper, amber and coral. Linen was so cheap in these
parts, that some of the men wore shirts and trousers made of it.

Beggars have a peculiar mode of exciting compassion; they station themselves at the entrance
to the market, and, holding up the rags of an old pair of trousers, they whine out to the passers-by,
"See! I have no pantaloons!" The novelty of this mode of proceeding, and the request for a
garment, which seemed to them even more necessary than food, made our travellers laugh heartily
until they became accustomed to it.

Hitherto the English had had nothing to do with any one but the sheikh, who, content with wielding
all real power, left the nominal sovereignty to the sultan, an eccentric monarch, who never
showed himself except through the bars of a wicker cage near the gate of his garden, as if
he were some rare wild beast. Curious indeed were some of the customs of this court, not the
least so the fancy for obesity: no one was considered elegant unless he had attained to a bulk
generally looked upon as very inconvenient.

Some exquisites had stomachs so distended and prominent that they seemed literally to hang
over the pommel of the saddle; and in addition to this, fashion prescribed a turban of such
length and weight that its wearer had to carry his head on one side.

These uncouth peculiarities rivalled those of the Turks of a masked ball, and the travellers
had often hard work to preserve their gravity. To compensate, however, for the grotesque solemnity
of the various receptions, a new field for observation was open, and much valuable information
might now be acquired.

Denham wished to proceed to the south at once, but the sheikh was unwilling to risk the lives
of the travellers entrusted to him by the Bey of Tripoli. On their entry into Bornou, the responsibility
of Boo-Khaloum for their safety was transferred to him.

So earnest, however, were the entreaties of Denham, that El-Khanemy at last sanctioned his
accompanying Boo-Khaloum in a "ghrazzie," or plundering expedition against the Kaffirs or infidels.

The sheikh's army and the Arab troops passed in succession Yeddie, a large walled city twenty
miles from Angoumou, Badagry, and several other towns built on an alluvial soil which has a
dark clay-like appearance.

They entered Mandara, at the frontier town of Delow, beyond which the sultan of the province,
with five hundred horsemen, met his guests.

Denham describes Mahommed Becker as a man of short stature, about fifty years old, wearing
a beard, painted of a most delicate azure blue. The presentations over, the sultan at once
turned to Denham, and asked who he was, whence he came, what he wanted, and lastly if he were
a Mahommedan. On Boo-Khaloum's hesitating to reply, the sultan turned away his head, with the
words, "So the pacha numbers infidels amongst his friends!"

This incident had a very bad effect, and Denham was not again admitted to the presence of the
sultan.

The enemies of the Pacha of Bornou and the Sultan of Mandara, were called Fellatahs. Their
vast settlements extended far beyond Timbuctoo. They are a handsome set of men, with skins
of a dark bronze colour, which shows them to be of a race quite distinct from the negroes.
They are professors of Mahommedanism, and mix but little with the blacks. We shall presently
have to speak more particularly of the Fellatahs, Foulahs, or Fans, as they are called throughout
the Soudan.

South of the town of Mora rises a chain of mountains, of which the loftiest peaks are not more
than 2500 feet high, but which, according to the natives, extend for more than "two months'
journey."

The most salient point noticed by Denham in his description of the country, is a vast and apparently
interminable chain of mountains, shutting in the view on every side; this, though in his opinion,
inferior to the Alps, Apennines, Jura, and Sierra Morena in rugged magnificence and gigantic
grandeur, are yet equal to them in picturesque effect. The lofty peaks of Valhmy, Savah, Djoggiday,
Munday, &c., with clustering villages on their stony sides, rise on the east and west, while
Horza, exceeding any of them in height and beauty, rises on the south with its ravines and
precipices.

Derkulla, one of the chief Fellatah towns, was reduced to ashes by the invaders, who lost no
time in pressing on to Musfeia, a position which, naturally very strong, was further defended
by palisades manned by a numerous body of archers. The English traveller had to take part in
the assault. The first onslaught of the Arabs appeared to carry all before it; the noise of
the fire-arms, with the reputation for bravery and cruelty enjoyed by Boo-Khaloum and his men,
threw the Fellatahs into momentary confusion, and if the men of Mandara and Bornou had followed
up their advantage and stormed the hill, the town would probably have fallen.

The besieged, however, noticing the hesitation of their assailants, in their turn assumed the
defensive, and rallying their archers discharged a shower of poisoned arrows, to which many
an Arab fell a victim, and before which the forces of Bornou and Mandara gave way.

Barca, the Bornou general, had three horses killed under him. Boo-Khaloum and his steed were
both wounded, and Denham was in a similar plight, with the skin of his face grazed by one arrow
and two others lodged in his burnoos.

The retreat soon became a rout. Denham's horse fell under him, and the major had hardly regained
his feet when he was surrounded by Fellatahs. Two fled on the presentation of the Englishman's
pistols, a third received the charge in his shoulder.

Denham thought he was safe, when his horse fell a second time, flinging his master violently
against a tree. This time when the major rose he found himself with neither horse nor weapons;
and the next moment he was surrounded by enemies, who stripped him and wounded him in both
hands and the right side, leaving him half dead at last to fight over his clothes, which seemed
to them of great value.

Availing himself of this lucky quarrel, Denham slipped under a horse standing by, and disappeared
in the thicket. Naked, bleeding, wild with pain, he reached the edge of a ravine with a mountain
stream flowing through it. His strength was all but gone, and he was clutching at a bough of
a tree overhanging the water with a view to dropping himself into it as the banks were very
steep, and the branches were actually bending beneath his weight, when from beneath his hand
a gigantic liffa, the most venomous kind of serpent in the country, rose from its coil in the
very act of striking. Horror-struck, Denham let slip the branch, and tumbled headlong into
the water, but fortunately the shock revived him, he struck out almost unconsciously, swam
to the opposite bank, and climbing it, found himself safe from his pursuers.

Fortunately the fugitive soon saw a group of horsemen amongst the trees, and in spite of the
noise of the pursuit, he managed to shout loud enough to make them hear him. They turned out
to be Barca Gana and Boo-Khaloum, with some Arabs. Mounted on a sorry steed, with no other
clothing than an old blanket swarming with vermin, Denham travelled thirty-seven miles. The
pain of his wounds was greatly aggravated by the heat, the thermometer being at 32 degrees.

The only results of the expedition, which was to have brought in such quantities of booty and
numerous slaves, were the deaths of Boo-Khaloum and thirty-six of his Arabs, the wounding of
nearly all the rest, and the loss or destruction of all the horses.

The eighty miles between Mora and Kouka were traversed in six days. Denham was kindly received
in the latter town by the sultan, who sent him a native garment to replace his lost wardrobe.
The major had hardly recovered from his wounds and fatigue, before he took part in a new expedition,
sent to Munga, a province on the west of Bornou, by the sheikh, whose authority had never been
fully recognized there, and whose claim for tribute had been refused by the inhabitants.

Denham and Oudney left Kouka on the 22nd May, and crossed the Yeou, then nearly dried up, but
an important stream in the rainy season, and visited Birnie, with the ruins of the capital
of the same name, which was capable of containing two hundred thousand inhabitants. The travellers
also passed through the ruins of Gambarou with its magnificent buildings, the favourite residence
of the former sultan, destroyed by the Fellatahs, Kabshary, Bassecour, Bately, and many other
towns or villages, whose numerous populations submitted without a struggle to the Sultan of Bornou.

The rainy season was disastrous to the members of the expedition, Clapperton fell dangerously
ill of fever, and Oudney, whose chest was delicate even before he left England, grew weaker
every day. Denham alone kept up. On the 14th of December, when the rainy season was drawing
to a close, Clapperton and Oudney started for Kano. We shall presently relate the particulars
of this interesting part of their expedition.

Seven days later, an ensign, named Toole, arrived at Kouka, after a journey from Tripoli, which
had occupied only three months and fourteen days.

In February, 1824, Denham and Toole made a trip into Luggun, on the south of Lake Tchad. All
the districts near the lake and its tributary, the Shari, are marshy, and flooded during the
rainy season. The unhealthiness of the climate was fatal to young Toole, who died at Angala,
on the 26th of February, at the early age of twenty-two. Persevering, enterprising, bright
and obliging, with plenty of pluck and prudence, Toole was a model explorer.

Luggun was then very little known, its capital Kernok, contained no less than 15,000 inhabitants.
The people of Luggun, especially the women--who are very industrious, and manufacture the finest
linens, and fabrics of the closest texture--are handsomer and more intelligent than those of
Bornou.

The necessary interview with the sultan ended, after an exchange of complimentary speeches
and handsome presents, in this strange proposal from his majesty to the travellers: "If you
have come to buy female slaves, you need not be at the trouble to go further, as I will sell
them to you as cheap as possible." Denham had great trouble in convincing the merchant prince
that such traffic was not the aim of his journey, but that the love of science alone had brought
him to Luggun.

On the 2nd of March, Denham returned to Kouka, and on the 20th of May, he was witness to the
arrival of Lieutenant Tyrwhitt, who had come to take up his residence as consul at the court
of Bornou, bearing costly presents for the sultan.

After a final excursion in the direction of Manou, the capital of Kanem, and a visit to the
Dogganah, who formerly occupied all the districts about Lake Fitri, the major joined Clapperton
in his return journey to Tripoli, starting on the 16th of April, and arriving there in safety
at the close of a long and arduous journey, whose geographical results, important in any case,
had been greatly enhanced by the labours of Clapperton. To the adventures and discoveries of
the latter we must now turn. Clapperton and Oudney started for Kano, a large Fellatah town
on the west of Lake Tchad, on the 14th of December, 1823, followed the Yeou as far as Damasak,
and visited the ruins of Birnie, and those of Bera, on the shores of a lake formed by the overflowing
of the Yeou, Dogamou and Bekidarfi, all towns of Houssa. The people of this province, who were
very numerous before the invasion of the Fellatahs, are armed with bows and arrows, and trade
in tobacco, nuts, gouro, antimony, tanned hares' skins, and cotton stuffs in the piece and
made into clothes.

The caravan soon left the banks of the Yeou or Gambarou, and entered a wooded country, which
was evidently under water in the rainy season.

The travellers then entered the province of Katagoum, where the governor received them with
great cordiality, assuring them that their arrival was quite an event to him, as it would be
to the Sultan of the Fellatahs, who, like himself, had never before seen an Englishman. He
also assured them that they would find all they required in his district, just as at Kouka.

The only thing which seemed to surprise him much, was the fact that his visitors wanted neither
slaves, horses, nor silver, and that the sole proof of his friendship they required was permission
to collect flowers and plants, and to travel in his country.

According to Clapperton's observations, Katagoum is situated in lat. 12 degrees 17 minutes
11 seconds N., and about 12 degrees E. long. Before the Fellatahs were conquered, it was on
the borders of the province of Bornou. It can send into the field 4000 cavalry, and 2000 foot
soldiers, armed with bows and arrows, swords and lances. Wheat, and oxen, with slaves, are
its chief articles of commerce. The citadel is the strongest the English had seen, except that
of Tripoli. Entered by gates which are shut at night, it is defended by two parallel walls,
and three dry moats, one inside, one out, and the third between the two walls which are twenty
feet high, and ten feet wide at the base. A ruined mosque is the only other object of interest
in the town, which consists of mud houses, and contains some seven or eight hundred inhabitants.

There the English for the first time saw cowries used as money. Hitherto native cloth had been
the sole medium of exchange.

South of Katagoum is the Yacoba country, called Mouchy by the Mahommedans. According to accounts
received by Clapperton, the people of Yacoba, which is shut in by limestone mountains, are
cannibals. The Mahommedans, however, who have an intense horror of the "Kaffirs," give no other
proof of this accusation than the statement that they have seen human heads and limbs hanging
against the walls of the houses.

In Yacoba rises the Yeou, a river which dries up completely in the summer; but, according to
the people who live on its banks, rises and falls regularly every week throughout the rainy season.

On the 11th of January, the journey was resumed; but a halt had to be made at Murmur at noon
of the same day, as Oudney showed signs of such extreme weakness and exhaustion, that Clapperton
feared he could not last through another day. He had been gradually failing ever since they
left the mountains of Obarri in Fezzan, where he had inflammation of the throat from sitting
in a draught when over-heated.

On the 12th of January, Oudney took a cup of coffee at daybreak, and at his request Clapperton
changed camels with him. He then helped him to dress, and leaning on his servant, the doctor
left the tent. He was about to attempt to mount his camel, when Clapperton saw death in his
face. He supported him back to the tent, where to his intense grief, he expired at once, without
a groan or any sign of suffering. Clapperton lost no time in asking the governor's permission
to bury his comrade; and this being obtained, he dug a grave for him himself under an old mimosa-tree
near one of the gates of the town. After the body had been washed according to the custom of
the country, it was wrapped in some of the turban shawls which were to have served as presents
on the further journey; the servants carried it to its last resting-place, and Clapperton read
the English burial service at the grave. When the ceremony was over, he surrounded the modest
resting-place with a wall of earth, to keep off beasts of prey, and had two sheep killed, which
he divided amongst the poor.

Thus closed the career of the young naturalist and ship's doctor, Oudney. His terrible malady,
whose germs he had brought with him from England, had prevented him from rendering so much
service to the expedition as the Government had expected from him, although he never spared
himself, declaring that he felt better on the march, than when resting. Knowing that his weakened
constitution would not admit of any sustained exertion on his part, he would never damp the
ardour of his companions.

After this sad event, Clapperton resumed his journey to Kano, halting successively at Digou,
situated in a well-cultivated district, rich in flocks; Katoungora, beyond the province of
Katagoum; Zangeia, once--judging from its extent and the ruined walls still standing--an important
place, near the end of the Douchi chain of hills; Girkoua, with a finer market-place than that
of Tripoli; and Souchwa, surrounded by an imposing earthwork.

Kano, the Chana of Edrisi and other Arab geographers, and the great emporium of the kingdom
of Houssa, was reached on the 20th January.

Clapperton tells us that he had hardly entered the gates before his expectations were disappointed;
after the brilliant description of the Arabs, he had expected to see a town of vast extent.
The houses were a quarter of a mile from the walls, and stood here and there in little groups,
separated by large pools of stagnant water. "I might have dispensed with the care I had bestowed
on my dress," (he had donned his naval uniform), "for the inhabitants, absorbed in their own
affairs, let me pass without remark and never so much as looked at me."

Kano, the capital of the province of that name and one of the chief towns of the Soudan, is
situated in N. lat. 12 degrees 0 minutes 19 seconds, and E. long. 9 degrees 20 minutes. It
contains between thirty and forty thousand inhabitants, of whom the greater number are slaves.

The market, bounded on the east and west by vast reedy swamps, is the haunt of numerous flocks
of ducks, storks, and vultures, which act as scavengers to the town. In this market, stocked
with all the provisions in use in Africa, beef, mutton, goats' and sometimes even camels' flesh,
are sold.

Writing paper of French manufacture, scissors and knives, antimony, tin, red silk, copper bracelets,
glass beads, coral, amber, steel rings, silver ornaments, turban shawls, cotton cloths, calico,
Moorish habiliments, and many other articles, are exposed for sale in large quantities in the
market-place of Kano.

There Clapperton bought for three piastres, an English cotton umbrella from Ghadames. He also
visited the slave-market, where the unfortunate human chattels are as carefully examined as
volunteers for the navy are by our own inspectors.

The town is very unhealthy, the swamps cutting it in two, and the holes produced by the removal
of the earth for building, produce permanent malaria.

It is the fashion at Kano to stain the teeth and limbs with the juice of a plant called gourgi,
and with tobacco, which produces a bright red colour. Gouro nuts are chewed, and sometimes
even swallowed when mixed with trona, a habit not peculiar to Houssa, for it extends to Bornou,
where it is strictly forbidden to women. The people of Houssa smoke a native tobacco.

On the 23rd of February, Clapperton started for Sackatoo. He crossed a picturesque well-cultivated
country, whose wooded hills gave it the appearance of an English park. Herds of beautiful white
or dun-coloured oxen gave animation to the scenery.

The most important places passed en route by Clapperton were Gadania, a densely populated town,
the inhabitants of which had been sold as slaves by the Fellatahs, Doncami, Zirmia, the capital
of Gambra, Kagaria, Kouari, and the wells of Kamoun, where he met an escort sent by the sultan.

Sackatoo was the most thickly populated city that the explorer had seen in Africa. Its well-built
houses form regular streets, instead of clustering in groups as in the other towns of Houssa.
It is surrounded by a wall between twenty and thirty feet high, pierced by twelve gates, which
are closed every evening at sunset, and it boasts of two mosques, with a market and a large
square opposite to the sultan's residence.

The inhabitants, most of whom are Fellatahs, own many slaves; and the latter, those at least
who are not in domestic service, work at some trade for their masters' profit. They are weavers,
masons, blacksmiths, shoemakers, or husbandmen.

To do honour to his host, and also to give him an exalted notion of the power and wealth of
England, Clapperton assumed a dazzling costume when he paid his first visit to Sultan Bello.
He covered his uniform with gold lace, donned white trousers and silk stockings, and completed
this holiday attire by a Turkish turban and slippers. Bello received him, seated on a cushion
in a thatched hut like an English cottage. The sultan, a handsome man, about forty-five years
old, wore a blue cotton tobe and a white cotton turban, one end of which fell over his nose
and mouth in Turkish fashion.

Bello accepted the traveller's presents with childish glee. The watch, telescope, and thermometer,
which he naively called a "heat watch," especially delighted him; but he wondered more at his
visitor than at any of his gifts. He was unwearied in his questions as to the manners, customs,
and trade of England; and after receiving several replies, he expressed a wish to open commercial
relations with that power. He would like an English consul and a doctor to reside in a port
he called Raka, and finally he requested that certain articles of English manufacture should
be sent to Funda, a very thriving sea-port of his. After a good many talks on the different
religions of Europe, Bello gave back to Clapperton the books, journals, and clothes which had
been taken from Denham, at the time of the unfortunate excursion in which Boo-Khaloum lost
his life.

On the 3rd May, Clapperton took leave of the sultan. This time there was a good deal of delay
before he was admitted to an audience. Bello was alone, and gave the traveller a letter for
the King of England, with many expressions of friendship towards the country of his visitor,
reiterating his wish to open commercial relations with it and begging him to let him have a
letter to say when the English expedition promised by Clapperton would arrive on the coast
of Africa.

Clapperton returned by the route by which he had come, arriving on the 8th of July at Kouka,
where he rejoined Denham. He had brought with him an Arab manuscript containing a geographical
and historical picture of the kingdom of Takrour, governed by Mahommed Bello of Houssa, author
of the manuscript. He himself had not only collected much valuable information on the geology
and botany of Bornou and Houssa, but also drawn up a vocabulary of the languages of Begharmi,
Mandara, Bornou, Houssa, and Timbuctoo.

The results of the expedition were therefore considerable. The Fellatahs had been heard of
for the first time, and their identity with the Fans had been ascertained by Clapperton in
his second journey. It had been proved that these Fellatahs had created a vast empire in the
north and west of Africa, and also that beyond a doubt they did not belong to the negro race.
The study of their language, and its resemblance to certain idioms not of African origin, will
some day throw a light on the migration of races. Lastly, Lake Tchad had been discovered, and
though not entirely examined, the greater part of its shores had been explored. It had been
ascertained to have two tributaries: the Yeou, part of whose course had been traced, whilst
its source had been pointed out by the natives, and the Shari, the mouth and lower portion
of which had been carefully examined by Denham. With regard to the Niger, the information collected
by Clapperton from the natives was still very contradictory, but the balance of evidence was
in favour of its flowing into the Gulf of Benin. However, Clapperton intended, after a short
rest in England, to return to Africa, and landing on the western coast make his way up the
Kouara or Djoliba as the natives call the Niger; to set at rest once for all the dispute as
to whether that river was or was not identical with the Nile; to connect his new discoveries
with those of Denham, and lastly to cross Africa, taking a diagonal course from Tripoli to
the Gulf of Benin.

So soon as Clapperton arrived in England, he submitted to Lord Bathurst his scheme for going
to Kouka viâ the Bight of Benin--in other words by the shortest way, a route not attempted
by his predecessors--and ascending the Niger from its mouth to Timbuctoo.

In this expedition three others were associated with Clapperton, who took the command. These
three were a surgeon named Dickson, Pearce, a ship's captain, and Dr. Morrison, also in the
merchant service; the last-named well up in every branch of natural history.

On the 26th November, 1825, the expedition arrived in the Bight of Benin. For some reason unexplained,
Dickson had asked permission to make his way to Sockatoo alone and he landed for that purpose
at Whydah. A Portuguese named Songa, and Colombus, Denham's servant, accompanied him as far
as Dahomey. Seventeen days after he left that town, Dickson reached Char, and a little later
Yaourie, beyond which place he was never traced.[1]

[Footnote 1: Dickson quarrelled with a native chief, and was murdered by his followers. See
Clapperton's "Last Journey in Africa."--Trans.]

The other explorers sailed up the Bight of Benin, and were warned by an English merchant named
Houtson, not to attempt the ascent of the Quorra, as the king of the districts watered by it
had conceived an intense hatred of the English, on account of their interference with the slave-trade,
the most remunerative branch of his commerce.

It would be much better, urged Houtson, to go to Badagry, no great distance from Sackatoo,
the chief of which, well-disposed as he was to travellers, would doubtless give them an escort
as far as the frontiers of Yariba. Houtson had lived in the country many years, and was well
acquainted with the language and habits of its people. Clapperton, therefore, thought it desirable
to attach him to the expedition as far as Katunga, the capital of Yariba.

The expedition disembarked at Badagry, on the 29th November, 1825, ascended an arm of the Lagos,
and then, for a distance of two miles, the Gazie creek, which traverses part of Dahomey. Descending
the left bank, the explorers began their march into the interior of the country, through districts
consisting partly of swamps and partly of yam plantations. Everything indicated fertility.
The negroes were very averse to work, and it would be impossible to relate the numerous "palavers"
and negotiations which had to be gone through, and the exactions which were submitted to, before
porters could be obtained.

The explorers succeeded, in spite of these difficulties, in reaching Jenneh, sixty miles from
the coast. Here Clapperton tells us he saw several looms at work, as many as eight or nine
in one house, a regular manufactory in fact. The people of Jenneh also make earthenware, but
they prefer that which they get from Europe, often putting the foreign produce to uses for
which it was never intended.

At Jenneh the travellers were all attacked with fever, the result of the great heat and the
unhealthiness of the climate. Pearce and Morrison both died on the 27th December, the former
soon after he left Jenneh with Clapperton, the latter at that town, to which he had returned
to rest.

At Assondo, a town of no less than 10,000 inhabitants; Daffou, containing some 5000, and other
places visited by Clapperton on his way through the country, he found that an extraordinary
rumour had preceded him, to the effect that he had come to restore peace to the districts distracted
by war, and to do good to the lands he explored.

At Tchow the caravan met a messenger with a numerous escort, sent by the King of Yariba to
meet the explorers, and shortly afterwards Katunga was entered. This town is built round the
base of a rugged granite mountain. It is about three miles in extent, and is both framed in
and planted with bushy trees presenting a most picturesque appearance.

Clapperton remained at Katunga from the 24th January to the 7th March, 1826. He was entertained
there with great hospitality by the sultan, who, however, refused to give him permission to
go to Houssa and Bornou by way of Nyffé or Toppa, urging as reasons that Nyffé was distracted
by civil war, and one of the pretenders to the throne had called in the aid of the Fellatahs.
It would be more prudent to go through Yaourie. Whether these excuses were true or not, Clapperton
had to submit.

The explorer availed himself of his detention at Katunga to make several interesting observations.
This town contains no less than seven markets, in which are exposed for sale yams, cereals,
bananas, figs, the seeds of gourds, hares, poultry, sheep, lambs, linen cloth, and various
implements of husbandry.

The houses of the king and those of his wives are situated in two large parks. The doors and
the pillars of the verandahs are adorned with fairly well executed carvings, representing such
scenes as a boa killing an antelope, or a pig, or a group of warriors and drummers.

According to Clapperton the people of Yariba have fewer of the characteristics of the negro
race than any natives of Africa with whom he was brought in contact. Their lips are not so
thick and their noses are of a more aquiline shape. The men are well made, and carry themselves
with an ease which cannot fail to be remarked. The women are less refined-looking than the
men, the result, probably, of exposure to the sun and the fatigue they endure, compelled as
they are to do all the work of the fields.

Soon after leaving Katunga, Clapperton crossed the Mousa, a tributary of the Quorra and entered
Kiama, one of the halting-places of the caravans trading between Houssa and Borghoo, and Gandja,
on the frontiers of Ashantee. Kiama contains no less than 13,000 inhabitants, who are considered
the greatest thieves in Africa. To say a man is from Borghoo is to brand him as a blackguard
at once.

Outside Kiama the traveller met the Houssa caravan. Some thousands of men and women, oxen,
asses, and horses, marching in single file, formed an interminable line presenting a singular
and grotesque appearance. A motley assemblage truly: naked girls alternating with men bending
beneath their loads, or with Gandja merchants in the most outlandish and ridiculous costumes,
mounted on bony steeds which stumbled at every step.

Clapperton now made for Boussa on the Niger, where Mungo Park was drowned. Before reaching
it he had to cross the Oli, a tributary of the Quorra, and to pass through Wow-wow, a district
of Borghoo, the capital of which, also called Wow-wow, contained some 18,000 inhabitants. It
was one of the cleanest and best built towns the traveller had entered since he left Badagry.
The streets are wide and well kept, and the houses are round, with conical thatched roofs.
Drunkenness is a prevalent vice in Wow-wow: governor, priests, laymen, men and women, indulge
to excess in palm wine, in rum brought from the coast, and in "bouza." The latter beverage
is a mixture made of dhurra, honey, cayenne pepper, and the root of a coarse grass eaten by
cattle, with the addition of a certain quantity of water.

Clapperton tells us that the people of Wow-wow are famous for their cleanliness; they are cheerful,
benevolent, and hospitable. No other people whom he had met with had been so ready to give
him information about their country; and, more extraordinary still, did not meet with a single
beggar. The natives say they are not aborigines of Borghoo, but that they are descendants of
the natives of Houssa and Nyffé. They speak a Yariba dialect, but the Wow-wow women are pretty,
which those of Yariba are not. The men are muscular and well-made, but have a dissipated look.
Their religion is a lax kind of Mahommedanism tinctured with paganism.

Since leaving the coast Clapperton had met tribes of unconverted Fellatahs speaking the same
language, and resembling in feature and complexion others who had adopted Mahommedanism. A
significant fact which points to their belonging to one race.

Boussa, which the traveller reached at last, is not a regular town, but consists of groups
of scattered houses on an island of the Quorra, situated in lat. 10 degrees 14 minutes N.,
and long. 6 degrees 11 minutes E. The province of which it is the capital is the most densely
populated of Borghoo. The inhabitants are all Pagans, even the sultan, although his name is
Mahommed. They live upon monkeys, dogs, cats, rats, beef, and mutton.

Breakfast was served to the sultan whilst he was giving audience to Clapperton, whom he invited
to join him. The meal consisted of a large water-rat grilled without skinning, a dish of fine
boiled rice, some dried fish stewed in palm oil, fried alligators' eggs, washed down with fresh
water from the Quorra. Clapperton took some stewed fish and rice, but was much laughed at because
he would eat neither the rat nor the alligators' eggs.

The sultan received him very courteously, and told him that the Sultan of Yaourie had had boats
ready to take him to that town for the last seven days. Clapperton replied that as the war
had prevented all exit from Bornou and Yaourie, he should prefer going by way of Coulfo and
Nyffé. "You are right," answered the sultan; "you did well to come and see me, and you can
take which ever route you prefer."

At a later audience Clapperton made inquiries about the Englishmen who had perished in the
Quorra twenty years before. This subject evidently made the sultan feel very ill at ease, and
he evaded the questions put to him, by saying he was too young at the time to remember what
happened.

Clapperton explained that he only wanted to recover their books and papers, and to visit the
scene of their death; and the sultan in reply denied having anything belonging to them, adding
a warning against his guest's going to the place where they died, for it was a "very bad place."

"But I understood," urged Clapperton, "that part of the boat they were in could still be seen."

"No, it was a false report," replied the sultan, "the boat had long since been carried down
by the stream; it was somewhere amongst the rocks, he didn't know where."

To a fresh demand for Park's papers and journals the sultan replied that he had none of them;
they were in the hands of some learned men; but as Clapperton seemed to set such store by them,
he would have them looked for. Thanking him for this promise, Clapperton begged permission
to question the old men of the place, some of whom must have witnessed the catastrophe. No
answer whatever was returned to this appeal, by which the sultan was evidently much embarrassed.
It was useless to press him further.

This was a check to Clapperton's further inquiries. On every side he was met with embarrassed
silence or such replies as, "The affair happened so long ago, I can't remember it," or, "I
was not witness to it." The place where the boat had been stopped and its crew drowned was
pointed out to him, but even that was done cautiously. A few days later, Clapperton found out
that the former Imaun, who was a Fellatah, had had Mungo Park's books and papers in his possession.
Unfortunately, however, this Imaun had long since left Boussa. Finally, when at Coulfo, the
explorer ascertained beyond a doubt that Mungo Park had been murdered.

Before leaving Borghoo, Clapperton recorded his conviction of the baselessness of the bad reputation
of the inhabitants, who had been branded everywhere as thieves and robbers. He had completely
explored their country, travelled and hunted amongst them alone, and never had the slightest
reason to complain.

The traveller now endeavoured to reach Kano by way of Zouari and Zegzeg, first crossing the
Quorra. He soon arrived at Fabra, on the Mayarrow, the residence of the queen-mother of Nyffé,
and then went to visit the king, in camp at a short distance from the town. This king, Clapperton
tells us, was the most insolent rogue imaginable, asking for everything he saw, and quite unabashed
by any refusal. His ambition and his calling in of the Fellatahs, who would throw him over
as soon as he had answered their purpose, had been the ruin of his country. Thanks indeed to
him, nearly the whole of the industrial population of Nyffé had been killed, sold into slavery,
or had fled the country.

Clapperton was detained by illness much longer than he had intended to remain at Coulfo, a
commercial town on the northern banks of the Mayarrow containing from twelve to fifteen thousand
inhabitants. Exposed for the last twenty years to the raids of the Fellatahs, Coulfo had been
burnt twice in six years. Clapperton was witness when there of the Feast of the New Moon. On
that festival every one exchanged visits. The women wear their woolly hair plaited and stained
with indigo. Their eyebrows are dyed the same colour. Their eyelids are painted with kohl,
their lips are stained yellow, their teeth red, and their hands and feet are coloured with
henna. On the day of the Feast of the Moon they don their gayest garments, with their glass
beads, bracelets, copper, silver, steel, or brass. They also turn the occasion to account by
drinking as much bouza as the men, joining in all their songs and dances.

After passing through Katunga, Clapperton entered the province of Gouari, the people of which
though conquered with the rest of Houssa by the Fellatahs, had rebelled against them on the
death of Bello I., and since then maintained their independence in spite of all the efforts
of their invaders. Gouari, capital of the province of the same name, is situated in lat. 10
degrees 54 minutes N., and long. 8 degrees 1 minute E.

At Fatika Clapperton entered Zegzeg, subject to the Fellatahs, after which he visited Zariyah,
a singular-looking town laid out with plantations of millet, woods of bushy trees, vegetable
gardens, &c., alternating with marshes, lawns, and houses. The population was very numerous,
exceeding even that of Kano, being estimated indeed at some forty or fifty thousand, nearly
all Fellatahs.

On the 19th September, after a long and weary journey, Clapperton at last entered Kano. He
at once discovered that he would have been more welcome if he had come from the east, for the
war with Bornou had broken off all communication with Fezzan and Tripoli. Leaving his luggage
under the care of his servant Lander, Clapperton almost immediately started in quest of Sultan
Bello, who they said was near Sackatoo. This was an extremely arduous journey, and on it Clapperton
lost his camels and horses, and was compelled to put up with a miserable ox; to carry part
of his baggage, he and his servants dividing the rest amongst them.

Bello received Clapperton kindly and sent him camels and provisions, but as he was then engaged
in subjugating the rebellious province of Gouber, he could not at once give the explorer the
personal audience so important to the many interests entrusted by the English Government to
Clapperton.

Bello advanced to the attack of Counia, the capital of Gouber, at the head of an army of 60,000
soldiers, nine-tenths of whom were on foot and wore padded armour. The struggle was contemptible
in the extreme, and this abortive attempt closed the war. Clapperton, whose health was completely
broken up, managed to make his way from Sackatoo to Magaria, where he saw the sultan.

After he had received the presents brought for him, Bello became less friendly. He presently
pretended to have received a letter from Sheikh El Khanemy warning him against the traveller,
whom his correspondent characterized as a spy, and urging him to defy the English, who meant,
after finding out all about the country, to settle in it, raise up sedition and profit by the
disturbances they should create to take possession of Houssa, as they had done of India.

The most patent of all the motives of Bello in creating difficulties for Clapperton was his
wish to appropriate the presents intended for the Sultan of Bornou. A pretext being necessary,
he spread a rumour that the traveller was taking cannons and ammunition to Kouka. It was out
of all reason Bello should allow a stranger to cross his dominions with a view to enabling
his implacable enemy to make war upon him. Finally, Bello made an effort to induce Clapperton
to read to him the letter of Lord Bathurst to the Sultan of Bornou.

Clapperton told him he could take it if he liked, but that he would not give it to him, adding
that everything was of course possible to him, as he had force on his side, but that he would
bring dishonour upon himself by using it. "To open the letter myself," said Clapperton, "is
more than my head is worth." He had come, he urged, bringing Bello a letter and presents from
the King of England, relying upon the confidence inspired by the sultan's letter of the previous
year, and he hoped his host would not forfeit that confidence by tampering with another person's
letter.

On this the sultan made a gesture of dismissal, and Clapperton retired.

This was not, however, the last attempt of a similar kind, and things grew much worse later.
A few days afterwards another messenger was sent to demand the presents reserved for El Khanemy,
and on Clapperton's refusing to give them up, they were taken from him.

"I told the Gadado," says Clapperton, "that they were acting like robbers towards me, in defiance
of all good faith: that no people in the world would act the same, and they had far better
have cut my head off than done such an act; but I suppose they would do that also when they
had taken everything from me."

An attempt was now made to obtain his arms and ammunition, but this he resisted sturdily. His
terrified servants ran away, but soon returned to share the dangers of their master, for whom
they entertained the warmest affection.

At this critical moment, the entries in Clapperton's journal ceased. He had now been six months
in Sackatoo, without being able to undertake any explorations or to bring to a satisfactory
conclusion the mission which had brought him from the coast. Sick at heart, weary, and ill,
he could take no rest, and his illness suddenly increased upon him to an alarming degree. His
servant, Richard Lander, who had now joined him, tried in vain to be all things at once. On
the 12th March, 1827, Clapperton was seized with dysentery. Nothing could check the progress
of the malady, and he sank rapidly. It being the time of the feast of the Rhamadan, Lander
could get no help, not even servants. Fever soon set in, and after twenty days of great suffering,
Clapperton, feeling his end approaching, gave his last instructions to Lander, and died in
that faithful servant's arms, on the 11th of April.

"I put a large clean mat," says Lander, "over the whole [the corpse], and sent a messenger
to Sultan Bello, to acquaint him with the mournful event, and ask his permission to bury the
body after the manner of my own country, and also to know in what particular place his remains
were to be interred. The messenger soon returned with the sultan's consent to the former part
of my request; and about twelve o'clock at noon of the same day a person came into my hut,
accompanied by four slaves, sent by Bello to dig the grave. I was desired to follow them with
the corpse. Accordingly I saddled my camel, and putting the body on its back, and throwing
a union jack over it, I bade them proceed. Travelling at a slow pace, we halted at Jungavie,
a small village, built on a rising ground, about five miles to the south-east of Sackatoo.
The body was then taken from the camel's back, and placed in a shed, whilst the slaves were
digging the grave; which being quickly done, it was conveyed close to it. I then opened a prayer-book,
and, amid showers of tears, read the funeral service over the remains of my valued master.
Not a single person listened to this peculiarly distressing ceremony, the slaves being at some
distance, quarrelling and making a most indecent noise the whole time it lasted. This being
done, the union jack was then taken off, and the body was slowly lowered into the earth, and
I wept bitterly as I gazed for the last time upon all that remained of my generous and intrepid
master."

Overcome by heat, fatigue, and grief, poor Lander himself now broke down, and for more than
ten days was unable to leave his hut.

Bello sent several times to inquire after the unfortunate servant's health, but he was not
deceived by these demonstrations of interest, for he knew they were only dictated by a wish
to get possession of the traveller's baggage, which was supposed to be full of gold and silver.
The sultan's astonishment may therefore be imagined when it came out that Lander had not even
money enough to defray the expenses of his journey to the coast. He never found out that the
servant had taken the precaution of hiding his own gold watch and those of Pearce and Clapperton
about his person.

Lander saw that he must at any cost get back to the coast as quickly as possible. By dint of
the judicious distribution of a few presents he won over some of the sultan's advisers, who
represented to their master that should Lander die he would be accused of having murdered him
as well as Clapperton. Although Clapperton had advised Lander to join an Arab caravan for Fezzan,
the latter, fearing that his papers and journals might be taken from him, resolved to go back
to the coast.

On the 3rd May Lander at last left Sackatoo en route for Kano. During the first part of this
journey, he nearly died of thirst, but he suffered less in the second half, as the King of
Djacoba, who had joined him, was very kind to him, and begged him to visit his country. This
king told him that the Niam-Niams were his neighbours; that they had once joined him against
the Sultan of Bornou, and that after the battle they had roasted and eaten the corpses of the
slain. This, I believe, is the first mention, since the publication of Hornemann's Travels,
of this cannibal race, who were to become the subjects of so many absurd fables.

Lander entered Kano on the 25th May, and after a short stay there started for Funda, on the
Niger, whose course he proposed following to Benin. This route had much to recommend it, being
not only safe but new, so that Lander was enabled to supplement the discoveries of his master.

Kanfoo, Carifo, Gowgie, and Gatas, were visited in turns by Lander, who says that the people
of these towns belong to the Houssa race, and pay tribute to the Fellatahs. He also saw Damoy,
Drammalik, and Coudonia, passed a wide river flowing towards the Quorra, and visited Kottop,
a huge slave and cattle market, Coudgi and Dunrora, with a long chain of lofty mountains running
in an easterly direction beyond.

At Dunrora, just as Lander was superintending the loading of his beasts of burden, four horsemen,
their steeds covered with foam, dashed up to the chief, and with his aid forced Lander to retrace
his steps to visit the King of Zegzeg, who, they said, was very anxious to see him. This was
by no means agreeable to Lander, who wanted to get to the Niger, from which he was not very
far distant, and down it to the sea; he was, however, obliged to yield to force. His guides
did not follow exactly the same route as he had taken on his way to Dunrora, and thus he had
an opportunity of seeing the village of Eggebi, governed by one of the chief of the warriors
of the sovereign of Zegzeg. He paid his respects as required, excusing the small value of the
presents he had to give on the ground of his merchandise having been stolen, and soon obtained
permission to leave the place.

Yaourie, Womba, Coulfo, Boussa, and Wow-wow were the halting-places on Lander's return journey
to Badagry, where he arrived on the 22nd November, 1827. Two months later he embarked for England.

Although the commercial project, which had been the chief aim of Clapperton's journey, had
fallen through, owing to the jealousy of the Arabs, who opposed it in their fear that the opening
of a new route might ruin their trade, a good deal of scientific information had rewarded the
efforts of the English explorer.

In his "History of Maritime and Inland Discovery," Desborough Cooley thus sums up the results
obtained by the travellers whose work we have just described:--

"The additions to our geographical knowledge of the interior of Africa which we owe to Captain
Clapperton far exceed in extent and importance those made by any preceding traveller. The limit
of Captain Lyon's journey southward across the desert was in lat. 24 degrees, while Major Denham,
in his expedition to Mandara, reached lat. 9 degrees 15 minutes, thus adding 14-3/4 degrees,
or 900 miles, to the extent explored by Europeans. Hornemann, it is true, had previously crossed
the desert, and had proceeded as far southwards as Niffé, in lat. 10 degrees 30 minutes. But
no account was ever received of his journey. Park in his first expedition reached Silla, in
long. 1 degree 34 minutes west, a distance of 1100 miles from the mouth of the Gambia. Denham
and Clapperton, on the other hand, from the east side of Lake Tchad, in long. 17 degrees, to
Sackatoo, in long. 5 degrees 30 minutes, explored a distance of 700 miles from east to west
in the heart of Africa; a line of only 400 miles remaining unknown between Silla and Sackatoo.
The second journey of Captain Clapperton added ten-fold value to these discoveries; for he
had the good fortune to detect the shortest and most easy road to the populous countries of
the interior; and he could boast of being the first who had completed an itinerary across the
continent of Africa from Tripoli to Benin."

We need add but little to so skilful and sensible a summary of the work done. The information
given by Arab geographers, especially by Leo Africanus, had been verified, and much had been
learnt about a large portion of the Soudan. Although the course of the Niger had not yet been
actually traced--that was reserved for the expeditions of which we are now to write--it had
been pretty fairly guessed at. It had been finally ascertained that the Quorra, or Djoliba,
or Niger--or whatever else the great river of North-West Africa might be called--and the Nile
were totally different rivers, with totally different sources. In a word, a great step had
been gained.

In 1816 it was still an open question whether the Congo was not identical with the Niger. To
ascertain the truth on this point, an expedition was sent out under Captain Tuckey, an English
naval officer who had given proof of intelligence and courage. James Kingston Tuckey was made
prisoner in 1805, and was not exchanged until 1814. When he heard that an expedition was to
be organized for the exploration of the Zaire, he begged to be allowed to join it, and was
appointed to the command. Two able officers and some scientific men were associated with him.

Tuckey left England on the 19th March, 1816, with two vessels, the Congo and the Dorothea,
a transport vessel, under his orders. On the 20th June he cast anchor off Malembé, on the shores
of the Congo, in lat. 4 degrees 39 minutes S. The king of that country was much annoyed when
he found that the English had not come to buy slaves, and spread all manner of injurious reports
against the Europeans who had come to ruin his trade.

On the 18th July, Tuckey entered the vast estuary formed by the mouths of the Zaire, on board
the Congo; but when the height of the river-banks rendered it impossible to sail farther, he
embarked with some of his people in his boats. On the 10th August he decided, on account of
the rapidity of the current and the huge rocks bordering the stream, to make his way partly
by land and partly by water. Ten days later the boats were brought to a final stand by an impassable
fall. The explorers therefore landed, and continued their journey on foot; but the difficulties
increased every day, the Europeans falling ill, and the negroes refusing to carry the baggage.
At last, when he was some 280 miles from the sea, Tuckey was compelled to retrace his steps.
The rainy season had set in, the number of sick increased, and the commander, miserable at
the lamentable result of the trip, himself succumbed to fever, and only got back to his vessel
to die on the 4th October, 1816.

An exact survey of the mouth of the Congo, and the rectification of the coast-line, in which
there had previously been a considerable error, were the only results of this unlucky expedition.

In 1807, not far from the scene of Clapperton's landing a few years later, a brave but fierce
people appeared on the Gold Coast. The Ashantees, coming none knew exactly whence, flung themselves
upon the Fantees, and, after horrible massacres, in 1811 and 1816, established themselves in
the whole of the country between the Kong mountains and the sea.

As a necessary result, this led to a disturbance in the relations between the Fantees and the
English, who owned some factories and counting-houses on the coast.

In 1816 the Ashantee king ravaged the Fantee territories in which the English had settled,
reducing the latter to famine. The Governor of Cape Coast Castle therefore sent a petition
home for aid against the fierce and savage conqueror. The bearer of the governor's despatches
was Thomas Edward Bowditch, a young man who, actuated by a passion for travelling, had left
the parental roof, thrown up his business, and having married against the wishes of his family,
had finally accepted a humble post at Cape Coast Castle, where his uncle was second in command.

The English minister at once acceded to the governor's request, and sent Bowditch back in command
of an expedition; but the authorities at Cape Coast considered him too young for the post,
and superseded him by a man whose long experience and thorough knowledge of the country and
its people seemed to fit him for the important task to be accomplished. The result showed that
this was an error. Bowditch was attached to the mission as scientific observer, his chief duty
being to take the latitude and longitude of the different places visited.

Frederick James and Bowditch left the English settlement on the 22nd August, 1817, and arrived
at Coomassie, the Ashantee capital, without meeting with any other obstacle than the insubordination
of the bearers. The negotiations with a view to the conclusion of a treaty of commerce, and
the opening of a road between Coomassie and the coast, were brought to something of a successful
issue by Bowditch, but James proved himself altogether wanting in either the power of making
or enforcing suggestions. The wisdom of Bowditch's conduct was fully recognized, and James
was recalled.

It would seem that geographical science had little to expect from a diplomatic mission to a
country already visited by Bosman, Loyer, Des Marchais, and many others, and on which Meredith
and Dalzel had written; but Bowditch turned to account his stay of five months at Coomassie,
which is but ten days' march from the Atlantic, to study the country, manners, customs, and
institutions of one of the most interesting races of Africa.

We will now briefly describe the pompous entry of the English mission into Coomassie. The whole
population turned out on the occasion, and all the troops, whose numbers Bowditch estimated
at 30,000 at least, were under arms.

Before they were admitted to the presence of the king, the English witnessed a scene well calculated
to impress upon them the cruelty and barbarity of the Ashantees. A man with his hands tied
behind him, his cheeks pierced with wire, one ear cut off, the other hanging by a bit of skin,
his shoulders bleeding from cuts and slashes, and a knife run through the skin above each shoulder-blade,
was dragged, by a cord fastened to his nose, through the town to the music of bamboos. He was
on his way to be sacrificed in honour of the white men!

"Our observations en passant," says Bowditch, "had taught us to conceive a spectacle far exceeding
our original expectations; but they had not prepared us for the extent and display of the scene
which here burst upon us. An area of nearly a mile in circumference was crowded with magnificence
and novelty. The king, his tributaries and captains, were resplendent in the distance, surrounded
by attendants of every description, fronted by a mass of warriors which seemed to make our
approach impervious.

"The king's messengers, with gold breastplates, made way for us, and we commenced our round,
preceded by the canes and the English flag. We stopped to take the hand of every caboceer,
(which, as their household suites occupied several spaces in advance, delayed us long enough
to distinguish some of the ornaments in the general blaze of splendour and ostentation). Gold
and silver pipes, and canes, dazzled the eye in every direction. Wolves' and rams' heads, as
large as life, cast in gold, were suspended from their gold-handled swords, which were held
around them in great numbers; the blades were shaped like round bills, and rusted in blood;
the sheaths were of leopard skin, or the shell of a fish like shagreen. The large drums, supported
on the head of one man, and beaten by two others, were braced around with the thigh-bones of
their enemies, and ornamented with their skulls. The kettle-drums, resting on the ground, were
scraped with wet fingers, and covered with leopard skin. The wrists of the drummers were hung
with bells and curiously-shaped pieces of iron, which jingled loudly as they were beating.
The smaller drums were suspended from the neck by scarves of red cloth; the horns (the teeth
of young elephants) were ornamented at the mouth-piece with gold, and the jaw-bones of human
victims. The war-caps of eagles' feathers nodded in the rear, and large fans, of the wing feathers
of the ostrich, played around the dignitaries; immediately behind their chairs (which were
of a black wood, almost covered by inlays of ivory and gold embossment) stood their handsomest
youths, with corslets of leopard's skin, covered with gold cockle-shells, and stuck full of
small knives, sheathed in gold and silver and the handles of blue agate; cartouch-boxes of
elephant's hide hung below, ornamented in the same manner; a large gold-handled sword was fixed
behind the left shoulder, and silk scarves and horses' tails (generally white), streamed from
the arms and waist cloth; their long Danish muskets had broad rims of gold at small distances,
and the stocks were ornamented with shells. Finely-grown girls stood behind the chairs of some,
with silver basins. Their stools (of the most laborious carved work, and generally with two
large bells attached to them) were conspicuously placed on the heads of favourites; and crowds
of small boys were seated around, flourishing elephants' tails curiously mounted. The warriors
sat on the ground close to these, and so thickly as not to admit of our passing without treading
on their feet, to which they were perfectly indifferent; their caps were of the skin of the
pangolin and leopard, the tails hanging down behind; their cartouch-belts (composed of small
gourds which hold the charges, and covered with leopard's or pig's skin) were embossed with
red shells, and small brass bells thickly hung to them; on their hips and shoulders was a cluster
of knives; iron chains and collars dignified the most daring, who were prouder of them than
of gold; their muskets had rests affixed of leopard's skin, and the locks a covering of the
same; the sides of their faces were curiously painted in long white streaks, and their arms
also striped, having the appearance of armour.

"We were suddenly surprised by the sight of Moors, who afforded the first general diversity
of dress. There were seventeen superiors, arrayed in large cloaks of white satin, richly trimmed
with spangled embroidery; their shirts and trousers were of silk; and a very large turban of
white muslin was studded with a border of different coloured stones; their attendants wore
red caps and turbans, and long white shirts, which hung over their trousers; those of the inferiors
were of dark blue cloth. They slowly raised their eyes from the ground as we passed, and with
a most malignant scowl.

"The prolonged flourishes of the horns, a deafening tumult of drums, and the fuller concert
at the intervals, announced that we were approaching the king. We were already passing the
principal officers of his household. The chamberlain, the gold horn blower, the captain of
the messengers, the captain for royal executions, the captain of the market, the keeper of
the royal burying-ground, and the master of the bands, sat surrounded by a retinue and splendour
which bespoke the dignity and importance of their offices. The cook had a number of small services,
covered with leopard's skin, held behind him, and a large quantity of massy silver plate was
displayed before him--punch-bowls, waiters, coffee-pots, tankards, and a very large vessel
with heavy handles and clawed feet, which seemed to have been made to hold incense. I observed
a Portuguese inscription on one piece, and they seemed generally of that manufacture. The executioner,
a man of immense size, wore a massy gold hatchet on his breast; and the execution stool was
held before him, clotted in blood, and partly covered with a cawl of fat. The king's four linguists
were encircled by a splendour inferior to none, and their peculiar insignia, gold canes, were
elevated in all directions, tied in bundles like fasces. The keeper of the treasury added to
his own magnificence by the ostentatious display of his service; the blow pan, boxes, scales
and weights, were of solid gold.

"A delay of some minutes whilst we severally approached to receive the king's hand, afforded
us a thorough view of him. His deportment first excited my attention; native dignity in princes
we are pleased to call barbarous was a curious spectacle; his manners were majestic, yet courteous,
and he did not allow his surprise to beguile him for a moment of the composure of the monarch.
He appeared to be about thirty-eight years of age, inclined to corpulence, and of a benevolent
countenance."

This account is followed by a description, extending over several pages, of the costume of
the king, the filing past of the chiefs and troops, the dispersing of the crowd, and the ceremonies
of reception, which lasted far on into the night.

Reading Bowditch's extraordinary narrative, we are tempted to ask if it be not the outcome
of the traveller's imagination, for we can scarcely credit what he says of the wonderful luxury
of this barbarous court, the sacrifice of thousands of persons at certain seasons of the year,
the curious customs of this warlike and cruel people, this mixture of barbarism and civilization
hitherto unknown in Africa. We could not acquit Bowditch of great exaggeration, had not later
travellers as well as contemporary explorers confirmed his statements. We can therefore only
express our astonishment that such a government, founded on terror alone, could have endured
so long.

It is a pleasure to us Frenchmen when we can quote the name of a fellow-countryman amongst
the many travellers who have risked their lives in the cause of geographical science. Without
abating our critical acumen, we feel our pulse quicken when we read of the dangers and struggles
of such travellers as Mollien, Caillié, De Cailliaud, and Letorzec.

Gaspar Mollien was nephew to Napoleon's Minister of the Treasury. He was on board the Medusa,
but was fortunate enough to escape when that vessel was shipwrecked, and to reach the coast
of the Sahara in a boat, whence he made his way to Senegal.

The dangers from which Mollien had just escaped would have destroyed the love of adventure
and exploration in a less ardent spirit. They had no such effect upon him. He left St. Louis
as soon as ever he obtained the assent of the Governor, Fleuriau, to his proposal to explore
the sources of the great rivers of Senegambia, and especially those of the Djoliba.

Mollien started from Djeddeh on the 29th January, 1818, and taking an easterly course between
the 15th and 16th parallels of north latitude, crossed the kingdom of Domel, and entered the
districts peopled by the Yaloofs. Unable to go by way of Woolli, he decided in favour of the
Fouta Toro route, and in spite of the jealousy of the natives and their love of pillage, he
reached Bondou without accident. It took him three days to traverse the desert between Bondou
and the districts beyond the Gambia, after which he penetrated into Niokolo, a mountainous
country, inhabited by the all but wild Peuls and Djallons.

Leaving Bandeia, Mollien entered Fouta Djallon, and reached the sources of the Gambia and the
Rio Grande, which are in close proximity. A few days later he came to those of the Falemé;
and, in spite of the repugnance and fear of his guide, he made his way into Timbo, the capital
of Fouta. The absence of the king and most of the inhabitants probably spared him from a long
captivity abbreviated only by torture. Fouta is a fortified town, the king owns houses, with
mud walls between three and four feet thick and fifteen high.

At a short distance from Timbo, Mollien discovered the sources of the Senegal--at least what
were pointed out to him as such by the blacks; but it was impossible for him to take astronomical
observations.

The explorer did not, however, look upon his work as done. He had ever before him the still
more important discovery of the sources of the Niger; but the feeble state of his health, the
setting in of the rainy season, the swelling of the rivers, the fears of his guides, who refused
to accompany him into Kooranko and Soolimano, though he offered them guns, amber beads, and
even his horse, compelled him to give up the idea of crossing the Kong mountains, and to return
to St. Louis. Mollien had, however, opened several new lines in a part of Senegambia not before
visited by any European.

"It is to be regretted," says M. de la Renaudière, "that worn out with fatigue, scarcely able
to drag himself along, in a state of positive destitution, Mollien was unable to cross the
lofty mountains separating the basin of the Senegal from that of the Djoliba, and that he was
compelled to rely upon native information respecting the most important objects of his expedition.
It is on the faith of the assertions of the natives that he claims to have visited the sources
of the Rio Grande, Falemé, Gambia, and Senegal. If he had been able to follow the course of
those rivers to their fountainhead his discoveries would have acquired certainty, which is,
unfortunately, now wanting to them. However, when we compare the accounts of other travellers
with what he says of the position of the source of the Ba-Fing, or Senegal, which cannot be
that of any other great stream, we are convinced of the reality of this discovery at least.
It also seems certain that the two last springs are higher up than was supposed, and that the
Djoliba rises in a yet loftier locality. The country rises gradually to the south and south-east
in parallel terraces. These mountain chains increase in height towards the east, attaining
their greatest elevation between lat. 8 degrees and 10 degrees N."

Such were the results of Mollien's interesting journey in the French colony of Senegal. The
same country was the starting-point of another explorer, Réné Caillié.

Caillié, who was born in 1800, in the department of the Seine et Oise, had only an elementary
education; but reading Robinson Crusoe had fired his youthful imagination with a zeal for adventure,
and he never rested until, in spite of his scanty resources, he had obtained maps and books
of travel. In 1816, when only sixteen years old, he embarked for Senegal, in the transport-ship
La Loire.

At this time the English Government was organizing an inland exploring expedition, under the
command of Major Gray. To avoid the terrible almamy of Timbo, who had been so fatal to Peddie,
the English made for the mouth of the Gambia by sea. Woolli and the Gaboon were crossed, and
the explorers penetrated into Bondou, which Mollien was to visit a few years later, a district
inhabited by a people as fanatic and fierce as those of Fouta Djallon. The extortions of the
almamy were such that under pretext of there being an old debt left unpaid by the English Government,
Major Gray was mulcted of nearly all his baggage, and had to send an officer to the Senegal
for a fresh supply.

Caillié knowing nothing of this disastrous beginning, and aware that Gray was glad to receive
new recruits, left St. Louis with two negroes, and reached Goree. But there some people, who
took an interest in him, persuaded him not to take service with Gray, and got him an appointment
at Guadaloupe. He remained, however, but six months in that island, and then returned to Bordeaux,
whence he started for the Senegal once more.

Partarieu, one of Gray's officers, was just going back to his chief with the merchandise he
had procured, and Caillié asked and obtained leave to accompany him, without either pay or
a fixed engagement.

The caravan consisted of seventy persons, black and white, and thirty-two richly-laden camels.
It left Gandiolle, in Cayor, on the 5th February, 1819, and before entering Jaloof a desert
was crossed, where great suffering was endured from thirst. The leader, in order to carry more
merchandise, had neglected to take a sufficient supply of water.

At Boolibaba, a village inhabited by Foulah shepherds, the travellers were enabled to recruit,
and to fill their leathern bottles for a journey across a second desert.

Avoiding Fouta Toro, whose inhabitants are fanatics and thieves, Partarieu entered Bondou.
He would gladly have evaded visiting Boulibané, the capital and residence of the almamy, but
was compelled to do so, owing to the refusal of the people to supply grain or water to the
caravan, and also in obedience to the strict orders of Major Gray, who thought the almamy would
let the travellers pass after paying tribute.

The terrible almamy began by extorting a great number of presents, and then refused to allow
the English to visit Bakel on the Senegal. They might, he said, go through his states, those
of Kaarta, to Clego, or they might take the Fouta Toro route. Both these alternatives were
equally impossible, as in either case the caravan would have to travel among fanatic tribes.
The explorers believed the almamy's object was to have them robbed and murdered, without incurring
the personal responsibility.

They resolved to force their way. Preparations were scarcely begun for a start, when the caravan
was surrounded by a multitude of soldiers, who, taking possession of the wells, rendered it
impossible for the travellers to carry out their intentions. At the same time the war-drum
was beaten on every side. To fight was impossible; a palaver had to be held. In a word, the
English had to own their powerlessness. The almamy dictated the conditions of peace, mulcted
the whites of a few more presents, and ordered them to withdraw by way of Fouta Toro.

Yet more--and this was a flagrant insult to British pride--the English found themselves escorted
by a guard, which prevented their taking any other route. When night fell they revenged themselves
by setting fire to all their merchandise in the very sight of the Foulahs, who had intended
to get possession of them. The crossing of Fouta Toro among hostile natives was terribly arduous.
The slightest pretext was seized for a dispute, and again and again violence seemed inevitable.
Food and water were only to be obtained at exorbitant prices.

At last, one night, Partarieu, to disarm the suspicion of the natives, gave out that he could
not carry all his baggage at once, and having first filled his coffers and bags with stones,
he decamped with all his followers for the Senegal, leaving his tents pitched and his fires
alight. His path was strewn with bales, arms, and animals. Thanks to this subterfuge, and the
rapidity of their march, the English reached Bakel in safety, where the French welcomed the
remnant of the expedition with enthusiasm.

Caillié, attacked by a fever which nearly proved fatal, returned to St. Louis; but not recovering
his health there, he was obliged to go back to France. Not until 1824 was he able to return
to Senegal, which was then governed by Baron Roger, a friend to progress, who was anxious pari
passu, to extend our geographical knowledge with our commercial relations. Roger supplied Caillié
with means to go and live amongst the Bracknas, there to study Arabic and the Mussulman religion.

Life amongst the suspicious and fanatic Moorish shepherds was by no means easy. The traveller,
who had great difficulty in keeping his daily journal, was obliged to resort to all manner
of subterfuges to obtain permission to explore the neighbourhood of his house. He gives us
some curious details of the life of the Bracknas--of their diet, which consists almost entirely
of milk; of their habitations, which are nothing more than tents unfitted for the vicissitudes
of the climate; of their "guéhués" or itinerant minstrels; their mode of producing the excessive
embonpoint which they consider the height of female beauty; the aspect of the country; the
fertility and productions of the soil, &c.

The most remarkable of all the facts collected by Caillié are those relating to the five distinct
classes into which the Moorish Bracknas are divided. These are the Hassanes, or warriors, whose
idleness, slovenliness, and pride exceed belief; the Marabouts, or priests; the Zénagues, tributary
to the Hassanes; the Laratines; and the slaves.

The Zénagues are a miserable class, despised by all the others, but especially by the Hassanes,
to whom they pay a tribute, which is of variable amount, and is never considered enough. They
do all the work, both industrial and agricultural, and rear all the cattle.

"In spite of my efforts," says Caillié, "I could find out nothing about the origin of this
people, or ascertain how they came to be reduced to pay tribute to other Moors. When I asked
them any questions about this, they said it was God's will. Can they be a remnant of a conquered
tribe? and if so, how is it that no tradition on the subject is retained amongst them. I do
not think they can be, for the Moors, proud as they are of their origin, never forget the names
of those who have brought credit to their families; and were such the case, the Zénagues, who
form the majority of the population, and are skilful warriors, would rise under the leadership
of one of their chiefs, and fling off the yoke of servitude."

Laratine is the name given to the offspring of a Moor and a negro slave. Although they are
slaves, the Laratines are never sold, but while living in separate camps, are treated very
much like the Zénagues. Those who are the sons of Hassanes are warriors, whilst the children
of Marabouts are brought up to the profession of their father.

The actual slaves are all negroes. Ill-treated, badly fed, and flogged on the slightest pretext,
there is no suffering which they are not called upon to endure.

In May, 1825, Caillié returned to St. Louis. Baron Roger was absent, and his representative
was by no means friendly. The explorer had to content himself with the pay of a common soldier
until the return of his protector, to whom he sent the notes he had made when amongst the Bracknas,
but all his offers of service were rejected. He was promised a certain sum on his return from
Timbuctoo; but how was he even to start without private resources?

The intrepid Caillié was not, however, to be discouraged. As he obtained neither encouragement
nor help from the colonial government, he went to Sierra Leone, where the governor, who did
not wish to deprive Major Laing of the credit of being the first to arrive at Timbuctoo, rejected
his proposals.

In the management of an indigo factory, Caillié soon saved money to the extent of two thousand
francs, a sum which appeared to him sufficient to carry him to the end of the world. He lost
no time in purchasing the necessary merchandise, and joined some Mandingoes and "seracolets,"
or wandering African merchants. He told them, under the seal of secrecy, that he had been born
in Egypt of Arab parents, taken to France at an early age, and sent to Senegal to look after
the business of his master, who, satisfied with his services, had given him his freedom. He
added, that his chief desire was to get back to Egypt, and resume the Mohammedan religion.

On the 22nd March, 1827, Caillié left Freetown for Kakondy, a village on the Rio Nuñez, where
he employed his leisure in collecting information respecting the Landamas and the Nalous, both
subject to the Foulahs of Fouta Djallon, but not Mohammedans, and, as a necessary result, both
much given to spirituous liquors. They dwell in the districts watered by the Rio Nuñez, side
by side with the Bagos, an idolatrous race who dwell at its mouth. The Bagos are light-hearted,
industrious, and skilful tillers of the soil; they make large profits out of the sale of their
rice and salt. They have no king, no religion but a barbarous idolatry, and are governed by
the oldest man in their village, an arrangement which answers very well.

On the 19th April, 1827, Caillié with but one bearer and a guide, at last started for Timbuctoo.
He speaks favourably of the Foulahs and the people of Fouta Djallon, whose rich and fertile
country he crossed. The Ba-Fing, the chief affluent of the Senegal, was not more than a hundred
paces across, and a foot and a half deep where he passed it; but the force of the current,
and the huge granite rocks encumbering its bed, render it very difficult and dangerous to cross
the river. After a halt of nineteen days in the village of Cambaya, the home of the guide who
had accompanied him thus far, Caillié entered Kankan, crossing a district intersected by rivers
and large streams, which were then beginning to inundate the whole land.

On the 30th May the explorer crossed the Tankisso, a large river with a rocky bed belonging
to the system of the Niger, and reached the latter on the 11th June, at Couronassa.

"Even here," says Caillié, "so near to its source, the Niger is 900 feet wide, with a current
of two miles and a half."

Before we enter Kankan with the French explorer, it will be well to sum up what he says of
the Foulahs of Fouta. They are mostly tall, well-made men, with chestnut-brown complexions,
curly hair, lofty foreheads, aquiline noses, features in fact very like those of Europeans.
They are bigoted Mohammedans, and hate Christians. Unlike the Mandingoes, they do not travel,
but love their home; they are good agriculturists and clever traders, warlike and patriotic,
and they leave none but their old men and women in their villages when they go to war.

The town of Kankan stands in a plain surrounded by lofty mountains. The bombax, baobab, and
butter-tree, also called "cé" the "shea" of Mungo Park, are plentiful. Caillié was delayed
in Kankan for twenty-eight days before he could get on to Sambatikala; and during that time
he was shamefully robbed by his host, and could not obtain from the chief of the village restitution
of the goods which had been stolen.

"Kankan," says the traveller, "is a small town near the left bank of the Milo, a pretty river,
which comes from the south, and waters the Kissi district, where it takes its rise, flowing
thence in a north-westerly direction to empty itself into the Niger, two or three days' journey
from Kankan. Surrounded by a thick quick-set hedge, this town, which does not contain more
than 6000 inhabitants, is situated in an extensive and very fertile plain of grey sand. On
every side are pretty little villages, called Worondes, where the slaves live. These habitations
give interest to the scene, and are surrounded by very fine plantations; yams, rice, onions,
pistachio nuts, &c., are exported in large quantities."

Between Kankan and Wassolo the road led through well cultivated, and, at this time of year,
nearly submerged districts. The inhabitants struck Caillié as being of a mild, cheerful, and
inquiring disposition. They gave him a cordial welcome.

Several tributaries of the Niger, including the Sarano, were passed before a halt was made
at Sigala, the residence of Baranusa, the chief of Wassolo. He was of slovenly habits, like
his subjects, and used tobacco both as snuff and for smoking. He was said to be very rich in
gold and slaves. His subjects paid him a tribute in cattle; he had a great many wives, each
of whom owned a hut of her own, their houses forming a little village, with well cultivated
environs. Here Caillié for the first time saw the Rhamnus Lotus mentioned by Park.

On leaving Wossolo, Caillié entered Foulou, whose inhabitants, like those of the former district,
are idolaters, of slovenly habits. They speak the Mandingo tongue. At Sambatikala the traveller
paid a visit to the almamy.

"We entered," he says, "a place which served him as a bedroom for himself and a stable for
his horse. The prince's bed was at the further end. It consisted of a little platform raised
six inches from the ground, on which was stretched an ox hide, with a dirty mosquito curtain,
to keep off the insects. There was no other furniture in this royal abode. Two saddles hung
from stakes driven into the wall; a large straw hat, a drum only used in war-time, a few lances,
a bow, a quiver, and some arrows, were the only ornaments. A lamp made of a piece of flat iron
set on a stand of the same metal, stood on the ground. This lamp was fed by a kind of vegetable
matter, not thick enough to be made into candles."

The almamy soon informed Caillié of an opportunity for him to go to Timeh, whence a caravan
was about to start for Jenneh. The traveller then entered the province of Bambarra, and quickly
arrived at the pretty little village of Timeh, inhabited by Mohammedan Mandingoes, and bounded
on the east by a chain of mountains about 350 fathoms high.

When he entered this village, at the end of July, Caillié little dreamt of the long stay he
would be compelled to make in it. He had hurt his foot, and the wound became very much inflamed
by walking in wet grass. He therefore decided to let the caravan for Jenneh go on without him,
and remain at Timeh until his foot should be completely healed. It would have been too great
a risk for him in his state to travel through Bambarra, where the idolatrous inhabitants of
the country would be pretty sure to rob him.

"The Bambarras," he says, "have few slaves, go almost naked, and are always armed with bows
and arrows. They are governed by a number of petty independent chiefs, who are often at war
with one another. They are in fact rude and wild creatures as compared with the tribes who
have embraced Mohammedanism."

Caillié was detained at Timeh by the still unhealed wound in his foot, until the 10th November.
At that date he proposed starting for Jenneh, but, to quote his own words, "I was now seized
with violent pains in the jaws, warning me that I was attacked with scurvy, a terrible malady,
all the horrors of which I was to realize. My palate was completely skinned, part of the bone
came away, my teeth seemed ready to fall out of the gums, my sufferings were terrible. I feared
that my brain might be affected by the agony of pain in my head. I was more than a fortnight
without an instant's sleep."

To make matters worse, the wound broke out afresh; and he would have been cured neither of
it nor of the scurvy had it not been for the energetic treatment of an old negress, who was
accustomed to doctor the scorbutic affections, so common in that country.

On the 9th January, 1828, Caillié left Timeh, and reached Kimba, a little village where the
caravan for Jenneh was assembled. Near to this village rises the chain erroneously called Kong,
which is the general name for mountain amongst the Mandingoes.

The names of the villages entered by the travellers, and the incidents of the journey through
Bambarra, are of no special interest. The inhabitants are accounted great thieves by the Mandingoes,
but are probably not more dishonest than their critics.

The Bambarra women all wear a thin slip of wood imbedded in the lower lip, a strange fashion
exactly similar to that noticed by Cook amongst the natives of the north-western coast of America.
The Bambarras speak Mandingo, though they have a dialect of their own called Kissour, about
which the traveller could obtain no trustworthy written information.

Jenneh was formerly called "the golden land." The precious metal is not, however, found there,
but a good deal is imported by the Boureh merchants and the Mandingoes of Kong.

Jenneh, two miles and a half in circumference, is surrounded by a mud wall ten feet high. The
houses, built of bricks baked in the sun, are as large as those of European peasants. They
have all terraces, but no outer windows. Numbers of foreigners frequent Jenneh. The inhabitants,
as many as eight or ten thousand, are very industrious and intelligent. They hire out their
slaves, and also employ them in various handicrafts.

The Moors, however, monopolize the more important commerce. Not a day passes that they do not
despatch huge boats laden with rice, millet, cotton, honey, vegetable butter, and other native
products.

In spite of this great commercial movement, the prosperity of Jenneh was threatened. Sego Ahmadou,
chief of the country, impelled by bigoted zeal, made fierce war upon the Bambarras of Sego,
whom he wished to rally round the standard of the Prophet. This struggle did a great deal of
harm to the trade of Jenneh, for it interrupted intercourse with Yamina, Sansanding, Bamakou,
and Boureh, which were the chief marts for its produce.

The women of Jenneh would not be true to their sex if they did not show some marks of coquetry.
Those who aim at fashion pass a ring or a glass ornament through the nostrils, whilst their
poorer sisters content themselves with a bit of pink silk.

During Caillié's long stay at Jenneh, he was loaded with kindness and attentions by the Moors,
to whom he had told the fabulous tale about his birth in Egypt, and abduction by the army of
occupation.

On the 23rd March, the traveller embarked on the Niger for Timbuctoo, on which the sheriff,
won over by the gift of an umbrella, had obtained a passage for him. He carried with him letters
of introduction to the chief persons in Timbuctoo.

Caillié now passed in succession the pretty villages of Kera, Taguetia, Sankha-Guibila, Diebeh,
and Isaca, near to which the river is joined by an important branch, which makes a great bend
beyond Sego, catching sight also of Wandacora, Wanga, Corocoïla, and Cona, finally reaching,
on the 2nd of April, the mouth of the important Lake Debo.

"Land," says Caillié, "is visible on every side of this lake except on the west, where it widens
out like a vast inland sea. Following its northern coast in a west-north-west direction for
a distance of fifteen miles, you leave on the left a tongue of level ground, which runs several
miles to the south, seeming to bar the passage of the lake, and form a kind of strait. Beyond
this barrier the lake stretches away out of sight in the west. The barrier I have just described
cuts Lake Debo into two parts, the upper and lower. That navigable to boats contains three
islands, and is very wide; it stretches away a short distance on the east, and is supplemented
by an immense number of huge marshes."

One after the other, Caillié now passed the fishing village of Gabibi; Tongoon in the Diriman
country, a district stretching far away on the east; Codosa, an important commercial town;
Barconga, Leleb, Garfolo, Baracondieh, Tircy, Talbocoïla, Salacoïla, Cora, Coratou, where the
Tuaricks exact a toll from passing boats, and finally reached Cabra, built on a height out
of reach of the overflowing of the Niger, and serving as the port of Timbuctoo.

On the 20th, Caillié disembarked, and started for that city, which he entered at sundown.

"I, at last," cries our hero, "saw the capital of the Soudan, which had so long been the goal
of my desires. As I entered that mysterious town, an object of curiosity to the civilized nations
of Europe, I was filled with indescribable exultation. I never experienced anything like it,
and my delight knew no bounds. But I had to moderate my transports, and it was to God alone
I confided them. With what earnestness I thanked Him for the success which had crowned my enterprise
and the signal protection He had accorded me in so many apparently insurmountable difficulties
and perils. My first emotions having subsided, I found that the scene before me by no means
came up to my expectations. I had conceived a very different idea of the grandeur and wealth
of this town. At first sight it appeared nothing more than a mass of badly-built houses, whilst
on every side stretched vast plains of arid, yellowish, shifting sands. The sky was of a dull
red colour on the horizon; all nature seemed melancholy; profound silence prevailed, not so
much as the song of a bird was heard. And yet there was something indescribably imposing in
the sight of a large town rising up in the midst of the sandy desert, and the beholder cannot
but admire the indomitable energy of its founders. I fancy the river formerly passed nearer
the town of Timbuctoo; it is now eight miles north of it and five of Cabra."

Timbuctoo, which is neither so large nor so well populated as Caillié expected, is altogether
wanting in animation. There are no large caravans constantly arriving in it, as at Jenneh;
nor are there so many strangers there as in the latter town; whilst the market, held at three
o'clock in the morning on account of the heat, appears deserted.

Timbuctoo is inhabited by Kissour negroes, who seem of mild dispositions, and are employed
in trade. There is no government, and strictly speaking no central authority; each town and
village has its own chief. The mode of life is patriarchal. A great many Moorish merchants
are settled in the town, and rapidly make fortunes there. They receive consignments of merchandise
from Adrar, Tafilet, Ghât, Ghâdames, Algiers, Tunis, and Tripoli.

To Timbuctoo is brought all the salt of the mines of Toudeyni, packed on camels. It is imported
in slabs, bound together by ropes, made from grass in the neighbourhood of Tandayeh.

Timbuctoo is built in the form of a triangle, and measures about three miles in circumference.
The houses are large but not lofty, and are built of round bricks. The streets are wide and
clean. There are seven mosques, each surmounted by a square tower, from which the muezzin calls
the faithful to prayer. Counting the floating population, the capital of the Soudan does not
contain more than from ten to twelve thousand inhabitants.

Timbuctoo, situated in the midst of a vast plain of shifting white sand, trades in salt only,
the soil being quite unsuitable to any sort of cultivation. The town is always full of people,
who come to exact what they call presents, but what might with more justice be styled forced
contributions. It is a public calamity when a Tuarick chief arrives. He remains in the town
a couple of months, living with his numerous followers at the expense of the inhabitants, until
he has wrung costly presents from them. Terror has extended the domination of these wandering
tribes over all the neighbouring peoples, whom they rob and pillage without mercy.

The Tuarick costume is the same as that of the Arabs, with the exception of the head-dress.
Day and night they wear a cotton band which covers the eyes and comes down over the nose, so
that they are obliged to raise the head in order to see. The same band goes once or twice round
the head and hides the mouth, coming down below the chin, so that the tip of the nose is all
that is visible.

The Tuaricks are perfect riders, and mounted on first-rate horses or on fleet camels; each
man is armed with a spear, a shield, and a dagger. They are the pirates of the desert, and
innumerable are the caravans they have robbed, or blackmailed.

Four days after Caillié's arrival at Timbuctoo, he heard that a caravan was about to start
for Talifet; and as he knew that another would not go for three months, fearing detection,
he resolved to join this one. It consisted of a large number of merchants, and 600 camels.
Starting on the 4th of May, 1828, he arrived, after terrible sufferings from the heat, and
a sand-storm in which he was caught, at El Arawan, a town of no private resources, but important
as the emporium for the Toudeyni salt, exported at Sansanding, on the banks of the Niger, and
also as the halting-place of caravans from Tafilet, Mogadore, Ghât, Drat, and Tripoli, the
merchants here exchanging European wares for ivory, gold, slaves, wax, honey, and Soudan stuffs.
On the 19th May, the caravan left El Arawan for Morocco, by way of the Sahara. To the traveller's
usual sufferings from heat, thirst, and privations of all kinds, was now added the pain of
a wound incurred in a fall from his camel. He was also taunted by the Moors, and even by their
slaves, who ridiculed his habits and his awkwardness, and even sometimes threw stones at him
when his back was turned towards them.

"Often," says Caillié, "one of the Moors would say to me in a contemptuous tone: 'You see that
slave? Well I prefer him to you, so you may guess in what esteem I hold you.' This insult would
be accompanied with roars of laughter."

Under these miserable circumstances Caillié passed the wells of Trarzas, in whose vicinity
salt is found, also those of Amul Gamil, Amul Taf, El Ekreif, surrounded by date-trees, wood,
willows, and rushes, and reached Marabouty and El Harib, districts whose inhabitants are disgustingly
dirty in their habits.

El Harib lies between two chains of low hills, dividing it from Morocco, to which it is tributary.
Its inhabitants, divided into several nomad tribes, employ themselves chiefly in the breeding
of camels. They would be rich and contented, but for the ceaseless exactions of the Berber Arabs.

On the 12th July the caravan left El Harib, and eleven days later entered the province of Talifet,
famous for its majestic date-trees. At Ghourland, Caillié was welcomed with some kindness by
the Moors, though he was not admitted to their houses, lest the women, who are visible only
to the men of their own families, should be seen by the irreverent eyes of a stranger.

Caillié visited the market, which is held three times a week near a little village called Boheim,
three miles from Ghourland, and was surprised at the variety of articles exposed for sale in
it: vegetables, native fruits, fodder for cattle, poultry, sheep, &c. &c., all in large quantities.
Water in leather bottles was carried about for sale to all who cared to drink in the exhausting
heat, by men who announced their approach by ringing a small hand-bell. Moorish and Spanish
coins alone passed current. The province of Tafilet contains several large villages and small
towns. Ghourland, El Ekseba, Sosso, Boheim, and Ressant, which our traveller visited, contained
some twelve hundred inhabitants each, all merchants and owners of property.

The soil is very productive: corn, vegetables, dates, European fruits, and tobacco, are cultivated
in large quantities. Among the sources of wealth in Tafilet we may name very fine sheep, whose
beautifully white wool makes very pretty coverlets, oxen, first-rate horses, donkeys, and mules.

As at El-Drah, a good many Jews live in the villages together with Mohammedans. They lead a
miserable life, go about half naked, and are constantly struck and insulted. Whether brokers,
shoemakers, blacksmiths, porters, or whatever their ostensible occupation, they all lend money
to the Moors.

On the 2nd August the caravan resumed its march, and after passing A-Fileh, Tanneyara, Marca,
Dayara, Rahaba, El Eyarac, Tamaroc, Ain-Zeland, El Guim, Guigo, and Soporo, Caillié arrived
at Fez, where he made a short stay, and then pressed on to Rabat, the ancient Saléh. Exhausted
by his long march, with nothing to eat but a few dates, obliged to depend on the charity of
the Mussulmans, who as often as not declined to give him anything, and finding at Fez no representative
of France but an old Jew named Ismail, who acted as Consular Agent, and who, being afraid of
compromising himself, would not let Caillié embark on a Portuguese brig bound for Gibraltar,--the
traveller eagerly availed himself of a fortunate chance for going to Tangiers. There he was
kindly received by the Vice-Consul, M. Delaporte, who wrote at once to the commandant of the
French station at Cadiz, and sent him off bound for that port, disguised as a sailor, in a
corvette.

The landing at Toulon of the young Frenchman fresh from Timbuctoo, was a very unexpected event
in the scientific world. With nothing to aid him but his own invincible courage and patience,
he had brought to a satisfactory conclusion an exploit for which the French and English Geographical
Societies had offered large rewards. Alone, without any resources to speak of, without the
aid of government or of any scientific society, by sheer force of will, he had succeeded in
throwing a flood of new light on an immense tract of Africa.

Caillié was not indeed the first European who had visited Timbuctoo. In the preceding year,
Major Laing had penetrated into that mysterious city, but he had paid for his expedition with
his life, and we shall presently relate the touching details of his fatal trip.

Caillié had returned to Europe, and brought back with him the curious journal from which our
narrative is taken. It is true his profession of the Mohammedan faith had prevented him from
taking astronomical observations, and from making sketches and notes freely, but only at the
price of his seeming apostasy could he have passed through the region where the very name of
a Christian is held in abhorrence.

How many strange observations, how many fresh and exact details, did Caillié add to our knowledge
of North-West Africa! It had cost Clapperton two journeys to traverse Africa from Tripoli to
Benin; Caillié had crossed from Senegal to Morocco in one--but at what a price! How much fatigue,
how much suffering, how many privations, had the Frenchman endured! Timbuctoo was known at
last, as well as the new caravan route across the Sahara by way of the oases of Tafilet and
El Harib.

Was Caillié compensated for his physical and mental sufferings by the aid which the Geographical
Society sent to him at once, by the prize of 10,000 francs adjudged to him, by the Cross of
the Legion of Honour and the fame and glory attached to his name? We suppose he was. He says
more than once in his narrative that nothing but his wish to add by his discoveries to the
glory of France, his native country, could have sustained him under the trying circumstances
and insults to which he was constantly subjected. All honour then to the patient traveller,
the sincere patriot, the great discoverer.

We have still to speak of the expedition which cost Alexander Gordon Laing his life; but before
giving our necessarily brief account, for his journals were all lost, we must say a few words
about his early life and an interesting excursion made by him to Timmannee, Kouran and Soolimana,
when he discovered the sources of the Niger.

Laing was born in Edinburgh in 1794, entered the English army at the age of sixteen, and soon
distinguished himself. In 1820 he had gained the rank of Lieutenant, and was serving as aide-de-camp
to Sir Charles Maccarthy, then Governor General of Western Africa. At this time war was raging
between Amara, the Mandingo almamy, and Sannassi, one of his principal chiefs. Trade had never
been very flourishing in Sierra Leone, and this state of things dealt it its death-blow. Maccarthy,
anxious to put matters on a better footing, determined to interfere and bring about a reconciliation
between the rival chiefs. He decided on sending an embassy to Kambia, on the borders of the
Scarcies, and from thence to Malacoury and the Mandingo camp. The enterprising character, intelligence,
and courage of Laing led to his being chosen by the governor as his envoy, and on the 7th January,
1822, he received instructions to report on the manufactures and topography of the provinces
mentioned, and to ascertain the feeling of the inhabitants on the abolition of slavery.

A first interview with Yareddi, leader of the Soolimana troops accompanying the almamy, proved
that the negroes of the districts under notice had only the vaguest ideas on European civilization,
and that they had had but little intercourse with the whites.

"Every article of our dress," says Laing, "was a subject of admiration; observing me pull off
my gloves, Yareddi stared, covered his widely-opened mouth with his hands, and at length exclaimed,
'Alla Akbar!' 'he has pulled the skin off his hands!' By degrees, and as he became more familiar,
he alternately rubbed down Dr. Mackie's hair and mine, then indulging himself in a loud laugh,
he would exclaim, 'They are not men, they are not men!' He repeatedly asked my interpreter
if we had bones?"

These preliminary excursions, during which Laing ascertained that many Soolimanas owned a good
deal of gold and ivory, led to his asking the governor's sanction to explore the districts
to the east of the colony, with a view to increasing the trade of Sierra Leone by admitting
their productions.

Maccarthy liked Laing's proposal and submitted it to the council. It was decided that Laing
should be authorized to penetrate into Soolimana by the most convenient route for future communications.

Laing left Sierra Leone on the 16th April, 1824, and rowed up the Rokelle river to Rokon, the
chief town of Timmannee. His interview with the King of Rokon was extremely amusing. To do
him honour Laing had a salvo of ten charges fired as he came into the court in which the reception
was to be held. At the noise the king stopped, drew back, darted a furious look at his visitor,
and ran away. It was with great difficulty that the cowardly monarch was induced to return.
At last he came back, and seating himself with great dignity in his chair of state he questioned
the major:

"He wished to know," says Laing, "why he had been fired at, and was, with some difficulty,
persuaded that it had been done out of honour to him. 'Why did you point your guns to the ground?'
'That you might see our intention was to show you respect.' 'But the pebbles flew in my face;
why did you not point in the air?' 'Because we feared to burn the thatch on your houses.' 'Well,
then, give me some rum.'"

Needless to add that the interview became more cordial after the major had complied with this
request!

The portrait of the Timmannee monarch deserves a place in our volume for more than one reason.
It is a case of ab uno disce omnes."

"Ba-Simera," to quote Laing again, "the principal chief or king of this part of the Timmannee
country, is about ninety years of age, with a mottled, shrivelled-up skin, resembling in colour
that of an alligator more than that of a human being, with dim, greenish eyes, far sunk in
his head, and a bleached, twisted beard, hanging down about two feet from his chin; like the
king of the opposite district he wore a necklace of coral and leopard's teeth, but his mantle
was brown and dirty as his skin. His swollen legs, like those of an elephant, were to be observed
from under his trousers of baft, which might have been originally white, but, from the wear
of several years, had assumed a greenish appearance."

Like his predecessors in Africa, Laing had to go through many discussions about the right of
passage through the country and bearers' wages, but thanks to his firmness he managed to escape
the extortions of the negro kings. The chief halting-places on the route taken by the major
were: Toma, where a white man had never before been seen; Balandeko, Roketchnick, which he
ascertained to be situated in N. lat. 8 degrees 30 minutes, and W. long. 12 degrees 11 minutes;
Mabimg, beyond a very broad stream flowing north of the Rokelle; and Ma-Yosso, the chief frontier
town of Timmannee. In Timmannee Laing made acquaintance with a singular institution, a kind
of free-masonry, known as "Purrah," the existence of which on the borders of the Rio Nuñez
had been already ascertained by Caillié.

"Their power" [that of the "Purrah"], says Laing, "supersedes even that of the headmen of the
districts, and their deeds of secrecy and darkness are as little called in question, or inquired
into, as those of the Inquisition were in Europe, in former years. I have endeavoured in vain
to trace the origin, or cause of formation of this extraordinary association, and have reason
to suppose, that it is now unknown to the generality of the Timmannees, and may possibly be
even so to the Purrah themselves, in a country where no traditionary records are extant, either
in writing or in song."

So far as Laing could ascertain Timmannee is divided into three districts. The chief of each
arrogates to himself the title of king. The soil is fairly productive, and rice, yams, guavas,
earth-nuts, and bananas might be grown in plenty, but for the lazy, vicious, and avaricious
character of the inhabitants who vie with each other in roguery.

"I think," says Laing, "that a few hoes, flails, rakes, shovels, &c., would be very acceptable
to them, when their respective uses were practically explained; and that they would prove more
beneficial both to their interest and ours, than the guns, cocked hats, and mountebank coats,
with which they are at present supplied." In spite of our traveller's philanthropic wish, things
have not changed since his time. The negroes are just as fond of intoxicating drinks, and their
petty kings still go about wearing on grand occasions hats the shape of an accordion, and blue
coats with copper buttons, with no shirts underneath. The maternal sentiment did not seem to
Laing to be very fully developed amongst the people of Timmannee, for he was twice roundly
abused by women for refusing to buy their children of them. A few days later there was a great
tumult raised against Laing, the white man who had inflicted a fatal blow on the prosperity
of the country by checking its trade. The first town entered in Kouranko was Maboum, and it
is interesting to note en passant what Laing says of the activity of the inhabitants.

"I entered the town about sunset, and received a first impression highly favourable to its
inhabitants, who were returning from their respective labours of the day, every individual
bearing about him proofs of his industrious occupation. Some had been engaged in preparing
the fields for the crops, which the approaching rains were to mature; others were penning up
cattle, whose sleek sides and good condition denoted the richness of their pasturages; the
last clink of the blacksmith's hammer was sounding, the weaver was measuring the quantity of
cloth he had woven during the day, and the gaurange, or worker in leather, was tying up his
neatly-stained pouches, shoes, knife-scabbards, &c. (the work of his handicraft) in a large
kotakoo or bag; while the crier at the mosque, with the melancholy call of 'Alla Akbar,' uttered
at measured intervals, summoned the dévôts Moslems to their evening devotions."

Had a Marilhat or a Henri Regnault transferred to canvas a scene like this, when the dazzling
light of the sun is beginning to die away in green and rose tints, might he not aptly name
his painting the Retour des Champs, a title so often given to landscapes in our misty climate.

"This scene," adds Laing, "both by its nature and the sentiment which it inspired, formed an
agreeable contrast with the noise, confusion, and the dissipation which pervaded a Timmannee
town at the same hour; but one must not trust too much to appearances, and I regret to add,
that the subsequent conduct of the Kouranko natives did not confirm the good opinion which
I had formed of them."

The traveller now passed through Koufoula, where he was very kindly received, crossed a pleasant
undulating district shut in by the Kouranko hills and halted at Simera, where the chief ordered
his "guiriot" to celebrate in song the arrival of his guest, a welcome neutralized by the fact
that the house assigned to Laing let in the rain through its leaky roof and would not let out
the smoke, so that, to use his own words, he was more "like a chimney-sweeper" than the white
guest of the King of Simera.

Laing afterwards visited the source of the Tongolelle, a tributary of the Rokelle, and then
left Kooranko to enter Soolimana. Kooranko, into which our traveller did not penetrate beyond
the frontier, is of vast extent and divided into a great number of small states. The inhabitants
resemble the Mandingoes in language and costume, but they are neither so well looking nor so
intelligent. They do not profess Mohammedanism and have implicit confidence in their "grigris."
They are fairly industrious, they know how to sew and weave. Their chief object of commerce
is rosewood or "cam," which they send to the coast. The products of the country are much the
same as those of Timmannee.

Komia, N. lat. 9 degrees 22 minutes, is the first town in Soolimana. Laing then visited Semba,
a wealthy and populous city, where he was received by a band of musicians, who welcomed him
with a deafening if not harmonious flourish of trumpets, and he finally reached Falaba, the
capital of the country.

The king received Laing with special marks of esteem. He had assembled a large body of troops
whom he passed in review, making them execute various manoeuvres accompanied by the blowing
of trumpets, beating of tambourines, and the playing of violins and other native instruments.
This "fantasia" almost deafened the visitor. Then came a number of guiriots, who sang of the
greatness of the king, the happy arrival of the major, with the fortunate results which were
to ensue from his visit for the prosperity of the country and the development of commerce.

Laing profited by the king's friendliness to ask his permission to visit the sources of the
Niger, but was answered by all manner of objections on the score of the danger of the expedition.
At last, however, his majesty yielded to the persuasions of his visitor, telling him that "as
his heart panted after the water, he might go to it."

The major had not, however, left Falaba two hours before the permission was rescinded, and
he had to give up an enterprise which had justly appeared to him of great importance.

A few days later he obtained leave to visit the source of the Rokelle or Sale Kongo, a river
of which nothing was known before his time beyond Rokon. From the summit of a lofty rock, Laing
saw Mount Loma, the highest of the chain of which it forms part. "The point," says the traveller,
"from which the Niger issues, was now shown to me, and appeared to be at the same level on
which I stood, viz., 1600 feet above the level of the Atlantic; the source of the Rokelle,
which I had already measured, being 1470 feet. The view from this hill amply compensated for
my lacerated feet.... Having ascertained correctly the situation of Konkodoogore, and that
of the hill upon which I was at this time, the first by observation, and the second by account,
and having taken the bearings of Loma from both, I cannot err much in laying down its position
in 9 degrees 25 minutes N. and 9 degrees 45 minutes W."

Laing had now spent three months in Soolimana, and had made many excursions. It is a very picturesque
country, in which alternate hills, valleys, and fertile plains, bordered by woods and adorned
with thickets of luxuriant trees.

The soil is fertile and requires very little cultivation; the harvests are abundant and rice
grows well. Oxen, sheep, goats, and a small species of poultry, with a few horses, are the
chief domestic animals of the people of Soolimana. The wild beasts, of which there are a good
many, are elephants, buffaloes, a kind of antelope, monkeys, and leopards.

Falaba, which takes its name from the Fala-ba river, on which it is situated, is about a mile
and a half long by one broad. The houses are closer together than in most African towns, and
it contains some six thousand inhabitants. Its position as a fortified town is well-chosen.
Built on an eminence in the centre of a plain which is under water in the rainy season, it
is surrounded by a very strong wooden palisade, proof against every engine of war except artillery.

Strange to say in Soolimana the occupations of men and women seem to be reversed; the latter
work in the fields except at seed time and harvest, build the houses, act as masons, barbers,
and surgeons, whilst the men attend to the dairy, milk the cows, sew, and wash the linen.

On the 17th September, Laing started on his return journey to Sierra Leone bearing presents
from the king, and escorted for several miles by a vast crowd. He finally reached the English
colony in safety.

Laing's trip through Timmannee, Kooranko, and Soolimana was not without importance. It opened
up districts hitherto unknown to Europeans, and introduced us to the manners, occupations,
and trade of the people, as well as to the products of the country. At the same time the course
was traced and the source discovered of the Rokelle, whilst for the first time definite information
was obtained as to the sources of the Niger, for although our traveller had not actually visited
them, he had gone near enough to determine their position approximately.

The results obtained by Laing on this journey, only fired his ambition for further discoveries.
He, therefore, determined to make his way to Timbuctoo.

On the 17th June, 1825, he embarked at Malta for Tripoli, where he joined a caravan with which
Hateeta, the Tuarick chief, who had made such friends with Lyon, was also travelling as far
as Ghât. After two months' halt at Ghadames, Laing again started in October and reached Insalah,
which he places a good deal further west than his predecessors had done. Here he remained from
November, 1825, to January 1826, and then made his way to the Wâdy Ghât, intending to go from
thence at once to Timbuctoo, making a tour of Lake Jenneh or Debbie, visiting the Melli country,
and tracing the Niger to its mouth. He would then have retraced his steps as far as Sackatoo,
visited Lake Tchad and attempted to reach the hill.

Outside Ghât the caravan with which Laing was travelling was attacked, some say by Tuaricks,
others by Berber Arabs, a tribe living near the Niger.

"Laing," says Caillié, who got his information at Timbuctoo, "was recognized as a Christian
and horribly ill-treated. He was beaten with a stick until he was left for dead. I suppose
that the other Christian whom they told me was beaten to death, was one of the major's servants.
The Moors of Laing's caravan picked him up, and succeeded by dint of great care in recalling
him to life. So soon as he regained consciousness he was placed on his camel, to which he had
to be tied, he was too weak to be able to sit up. The robbers had left him nothing, the greater
part of his baggage had been rifled."

Laing arrived at Timbuctoo on the 18th August, 1826, and recovered from his wounds. His convalescence
was slow, but he was fortunately spared the extortions of the natives, owing to the letters
of introduction he had brought with him from Tripoli and to the sedulous care of his host,
a native of that city.

According to Caillié, who quotes this remarkable fact from an old native, Laing retained his
European costume, and gave out that he had been sent by his master, the king of England, to
visit Timbuctoo and describe the wonders it contained.

"It appears," adds the French traveller, "that Laing drew the plan of the city in public, for
the same Moor told me in his naive and expressive language, that he had 'written the town and
everything in it.'"

After a careful examination of Timbuctoo, Laing, who had good reason to fear the Tuaricks,
paid a visit by night to Cabra, and looked down on the waters of the Niger. Instead of returning
to Europe by way of the Great Desert, he was very anxious to go past Jenneh and Sego to the
French settlements in Senegal, but at the first hint of his purpose to the Foulahs who crowded
to stare at him, he was told that a Nazarene could not possibly be allowed to set foot in their
country, and that if he dared attempt it they would make him repent it.

Laing was, therefore, driven to go by way of El Arawan, where he hoped to join a caravan of
Moorish merchants taking salt to Sansanding. But five days after he left Timbuctoo, his caravan
was joined by a fanatic sheikh, named Hamed-ould-Habib, chief of the Zawat tribe, and Laing
was at once arrested under pretence of his having entered their country without authorization.
The major being urged to profess Mohammedanism refused, preferring death to apostasy. A discussion
then took place between the sheikh and his hired assassins as to how the victim should be put
to death, and finally Laing was strangled by two slaves. His body was left unburied in the desert.

This was all Caillié was able to find out when he visited Timbuctoo but one year after Major
Laing's death. We have supplemented his accounts by a few details gathered from the reports
of the Royal Geographical Society, for the traveller's journal and the notes he took are alike
lost to us.

We have already told how Laing managed to fix pretty accurately the position of the sources
of the Niger. We have also described the efforts made by Mungo Park and Clapperton to trace
the middle portion of the course of that river. We have now to narrate the journeys made in
order to examine its mouth and the lower part of its course. The earliest and most successful
was that of Richard Lander, formerly Clapperton's servant.

Richard Lander and his brother John proposed to the English Government, that they should be
sent to explore the Niger to its mouth. Their offer was accepted, and they embarked on a government
vessel for Badagry, where they arrived on the 19th March, 1830.

The king of the country, Adooley, of whom Richard Lander retained a friendly remembrance, was
in low spirits. His town had just been burnt, his generals and his best soldiers had perished
in a battle with the people of Lagos, and he himself had had a narrow escape when his house
and all his treasures were destroyed by fire.

He determined to retrieve his losses, and to do so at the expense of the travellers, who could
not get permission to penetrate into the interior of the country until they had been robbed
of their most valuable merchandise, and compelled to sign drafts in payment for a gun-boat
with a hundred men, for two puncheons of rum, twenty barrels of powder, and a large quantity
of merchandise, which they knew perfectly well would never be delivered by this monarch, who
was as greedy of gain as he was drunken. As a matter of course the natives followed the example
of their chief, vied with him in selfishness, greed, and meanness, regarded the English as
fair spoil, and fleeced them on every opportunity.

At last, on the 31st March, Richard and John Lander succeeded in getting away from Badagry;
and preceded by an escort sent in advance by the king, arrived at Katunga on the 13th May,
having halted by the way at Wow-wow, a good-sized town, Bidjie, where Pearce and Morrison had
been taken ill, Jenneh, Chow, Egga, all towns visited by Clapperton, Engua, where Pearce died,
Asinara, the first walled city they saw, Bohou, formerly capital of Yariba, Jaguta, Leoguadda,
and Itcho, where there is a famous market.

At Katunga, according to custom, the travellers halted under a tree before they were received
by the king. But being tired of waiting, they presently went to the residence of Ebo, the chief
eunuch, and the most influential man about the person of the sovereign. A diabolical noise
of cymbals, trumpets, and drums, all played together, announced the approach of the white men,
and Mansolah, the king, gave them a most hearty welcome, ordering Ebo to behead every one who
should molest them.

The Landers, fearful of being detained by Mansolah until the rainy season, acted on Ebo's advice,
and said nothing about the Niger, but merely spoke of the death of their fellow-countryman
at Boussa twenty years before, adding that the King of England had sent them to the sultan
of Yaourie to recover his papers.

Although Mansolah did not treat the brothers Lander quite as graciously as he had treated Clapperton,
he allowed them to go eight days after their arrival.

Mansolah's carelessness and the imbecile cowardice of his subjects had enabled the Fellatahs
to establish themselves in Yarriba, to entrench themselves in its fortified towns, and to obtain
the recognition of their independence, until they became sufficiently strong to assume an absolute
sovereignty over the whole country.

From Katunga the Landers travelled to Borghoo, by way of Atoupa, Bumbum--a town much frequented
by the merchants of Houssa, Borghoo, and other provinces trading with Gonja--Kishi, on the
frontiers of Yarriba, and Moussa, on the river of the same name, beyond which they were met
by an escort sent to join them by the Sultan of Borghoo. Sultan Yarro received them with many
expressions of pleasure and kindness, showing special delight at seeing Richard Lander again.
Although he was a convert to Mohammedanism, Yarro evidently put more faith in the superstitions
of his forefathers than in his new creed. Fetiches and gri-gris were hung over his door, and
in one of his huts there was a square stool, supported on two sides by four little wooden effigies
of men. The character, manners, and costumes of the people of Borghoo differ essentially from
those of the natives of Yarriba.

"Perhaps no two people in the universe residing so near each other," says the narrative, "differ
more widely ... than the natives of Yarriba and Borghoo. The former are perpetually engaged
in trading with each other from town to town, the latter never quit their towns except in case
of war, or when engaged in predatory excursions; the former are pusillanimous and cowardly,
the latter are bold and courageous, full of spirit and energy, and never seem happier than
when engaged in martial exercises; the former are generally mild, unassuming, humble and honest,
but cold and passionless. The latter are proud and haughty, too vain to be civil, and too shrewd
to be honest; yet they appear to understand somewhat of the nature of love and the social affections,
are warm in their attachments, and keen in their resentments."

On the 17th June our travellers at last came in sight of the city of Boussa. Great was their
surprise at finding that town on the mainland, and not, as Clapperton had said, on an island
in the Niger. They entered Boussa by the western gate, and were almost immediately introduced
to the presence of the king and of the midiki or queen, who told them that they had both that
very morning shed tears over the fate of Clapperton.

The Niger or Quorra, which flows below the city, was the first object of interest visited by
the brothers. It is said that, a few miles above Boussa, the river is divided into three branches
by two small, fertile islands, and that it flows from hence in one continued stream to Funda.
The Niger here, in its widest part, is not more than a stone's-throw across at present. The
rock on which we sat overlooks the spot where Mr. Park and his associates met their unhappy fate."

Richard Lander made his preliminary inquiries respecting the books and papers belonging to
Mungo Park's expedition with great caution. But presently, reassured by the sultan's kindness,
he determined to question him as to the fate of the explorer. Yarro was, however, too young
at the time of the catastrophe to be able to remember what had occurred. It had taken place
two reigns back; but he promised to have a search instituted for relics of the illustrious
traveller.

"In the afternoon," says Richard Lander, "the king came to see us, followed by a man with a
book under his arm, which was said to have been picked up in the Niger after the loss of our
countryman.

There was then no further hope of recovering Park's journal.

On the 23rd June the Landers left Boussa, filled with gratitude to the king, who had given
them valuable presents, and warned them to accept no food, lest it should be poisoned, from
any but the governors of the places they should pass through. They travelled alongside of the
Niger as far as Kagogie, where they embarked in a wretched native canoe, whilst their horses
were sent on by land to Yaoorie.

"We had proceeded only a few hundred yards," says Richard Lander, "when the river gradually
widened to two miles, and continued as far as the eye could reach. It looked very much like
an artificial canal, the steep banks confining the water like low walls, with vegetation beyond.
In most places the water was extremely shallow, but in others it was deep enough to float a
frigate. During the first two hours of the day the scenery was as interesting and picturesque
as can be imagined. All of a sudden came a total change of scene. To the banks of dark earth,
clay, or sand, succeeded black, rugged rocks; and that wide mirror which reflected the skies,
was divided into a thousand little channels by great sand-banks."

A little further on the stream was barred by a wall of black rocks, with a single narrow opening,
through which its waters rushed furiously down. At this place there is a portage, above which
the Niger flows on, restored to its former breadth, repose, and grandeur.

After three days' navigation, the Landers reached a village, where they found horses and men
waiting for them, and whence they quickly made their way, through a continuously hilly country,
to the town of Yaoorie, where they were welcomed by the sultan, a stout, dirty, slovenly man,
who received them in a kind of farm-yard cleanly kept. The sultan, who was disappointed that
Clapperton had not visited him, and that Richard Lander had omitted to pay his respects on
his return journey, was very exacting to his present guests. He would give them none of the
provisions they wanted, and did all he could to detain them as long as possible.

We may add that food was very dear at Yaoorie, and that Richard Lander had no merchandise for
barter except a quantity of "Whitechapel sharps, warranted not to cut in the eye," for the
very good reason, he tells us, that most of them had no eyes at all, so that they were all
but worthless.

They were able, however, to turn to account some empty tins which had contained soups; the
labels, although dirty and tarnished, were much admired by the natives, one of whom strutted
proudly about for some days wearing an empty tin on his head, bearing four labels of "concentrated
essence of meat."

The Sultan would not permit the Englishmen to enter Nyffé or Bornou, and told them there was
nothing for them but to go back to Boussa. Richard Lander at once wrote to the king of that
town, asking permission to buy a canoe in which to go to Funda, as the road by land was infested
by plundering Fellatahs.

At last, on the 26th July, a messenger arrived from the King of Boussa to inquire into the
strange conduct of the Sultan of Yaoorie, and the cause of his detention of the white men.
After an imprisonment of five weeks the Landers were at last allowed to leave Yaoorie, which
was now almost entirely inundated.

The explorers now ascended the Niger to the confluence of the Cubbie, and then went down it
again to Boussa, where the king, who was glad to see them again, received them with the utmost
cordiality. They were, however, detained longer than they liked by the necessity of paying
a visit to the King of Wow-wow, as well as by the difficulty of getting a boat. Moreover, there
was some delay in the return of the messengers who had been sent by the King of Boussa to the
different chiefs on the banks of the river, and lastly, Beken Rouah (the Dark Water) had to
be consulted in order to ensure the safety of the travellers in their journey to the sea.

On taking leave of the king, the brothers were at a loss to express their gratitude for his
kindness and hospitality, his zeal in their cause, and the protection he was ever ready to
extend during their stay of nearly two months in his capital. The natives showed great regret
at losing their visitors, and knelt in the path of the brothers, praying with uplifted hands
to their gods on their behalf.

Now began the descent of the Niger. A halt had to be made at the island of Melalie, whose chief
begged the white men to accept a very fine kid. We may be sure they were too polite to refuse
it. The Landers next passed the large town of Congi, the Songa of Clapperton, and then Inguazilligie,
the rendezvous of merchants travelling between Nouffe and the districts north-east of Borghoo.
Below Inguazilligie they halted at Patashie, a large fertile island of great beauty, planted
with palm groves and magnificent trees.

As this place was not far from Wow-wow, Richard Lander sent a message to the king of that town,
who, however, declined to deliver the canoe which had been purchased of him. The messenger
failing in his purpose, the brothers were compelled themselves to visit the king, but as they
expected, they got only evasive answers. They had now no choice, if they wished to continue
their journey, but to make off with the canoes which had been lent them at Patashie. On the
4th October, after further delays, they resumed their course, and being carried down by the
current, were soon out of sight of Lever, or Layaba, and its wretched inhabitants.

The first town the brothers came to was Bajiebo, a large and spacious city, which for dirt,
noise, and confusion, could not be surpassed. Next came Leechee, inhabited by Nouffe people,
and the island of Madje, where the Niger divides into three parts. Just beyond, the travellers
suddenly found themselves opposite a remarkable rock, two hundred and eighty feet high, called
Mount Kesa, which rises perpendicularly from the centre of the stream. This rock is greatly
venerated by the natives, who believe it to be the favourite home of a beneficent genius.

At Belee, a little above Rabba, the brothers received a visit from the "King of the Dark Waters,"
chief of the island of Zagoshi, who appeared in a canoe of great length and unusual cleanliness,
decked with scarlet cloth and gold lace. On the same day they reached the town of Zagoshi,
opposite Rabba, and the second Fellatah town beyond Sackatoo.

Mallam Dendo, chief of Zagoshi, was a cousin of Bello. He was a blind and very feeble old man
in very bad health, who knew he had but a few years longer to reign, and his one thought was
how best to secure the throne to his son.

Although he had received very costly presents, Mallam Dendo was anything but satisfied, and
declared that if the travellers did not make him other and more valuable gifts, he would require
their guns, pistols, and powder, before he allowed them to leave Zagoshi.

Richard Lander did not know what to do, when the gift of the tobé (or robe) of Mungo Park,
which had been restored by the King of Boussa, threw Mallam Dendo into such ecstasies of joy
that he declared himself the protector of the Europeans, promised to do all he could to help
them to reach the sea, made them a present of several richly-coloured plaited mats, two bags
of rice, and a bunch of bananas. These stores came just in time, for the whole stock of cloth,
looking-glasses, razors, and pipes was exhausted, and the English had nothing left but a few
needles and some silver bracelets as presents for the chiefs on the banks of the Niger.

"Rabba," says Lander, "... seen from Zagoshi, appears to be a large, compact, clean, and well-built
town, though it is unwalled, and is not otherwise fenced. It is irregularly built on the slope
of a gently-rising hill, at the foot of which runs the Niger; and in point of rank, population,
and wealth, it is the second city in the Fellatah dominions, Sackatoo alone being considered
as its superior. It is inhabited by a mixed population of Fellatahs, Nyffeans, and emigrants
and slaves from various countries, and is governed by a ruler who exercises sovereign authority
over Rabba and its dependencies, and is styled sultan or king.... Rabba is famous for milk,
oil, and honey. The market, when our messengers were there, appeared to be well supplied with
bullocks, horses, mules, asses, sheep, goats, and abundance of poultry. Rice, and various sorts
of corn, cotton cloth, indigo, saddles and bridles made of red and yellow leather, besides
shoes, boots, and sandals, were offered for sale in great plenty. Although we observed about
two hundred slaves for sale, none had been disposed of when we left the market in the evening....
Rabba is not very famous for the number or variety of its artificers, and yet in the manufacture
of mats and sandals it is unrivalled. However, in all other handicrafts, Rabba yields to Zagoshi."

The industry and love of labour displayed by the people of the latter town were an agreeable
surprise in this lazy country. Its inhabitants, who are hospitable and obliging, are protected
by the situation of their island against the Fellatahs. They are independent too, and recognize
no authority but that of the "King of the Dark Waters," whom they obey because it is to their
interest to do so.

On the 16th October, the Landers at last started in a wretched canoe, for which the king had
made them pay a high price, with paddles they had stolen, because no one would sell them any.
This was the first time they had been able to embark on the Niger without help from the natives.
They went down the river, whose width varies greatly, avoiding large towns as much as possible,
for they had no means of satisfying the extortions of the chiefs. No incident of note occurred
before Egga was reached, if we except a terrible storm which overtook the travellers when,
unable to land in the marshes bordering the river, they had allowed their boat to drift with
the current, and during which they were all but upset by the hippopotami playing about on the
surface of the water. All this time the Niger flowed in an E.S.E. direction, now eight, now
only two miles in width. The current was so rapid that the boat went at the rate of four or
five miles an hour.

On the 19th October the Landers passed the mouth of the Coudonia, which Richard had crossed
near Cuttup on his first expedition, and a little later they came in sight of Egga. The landing-place
was soon reached by way of a bay encumbered with an immense number of large and heavy canoes
full of merchandise, with the prows daubed with blood, and covered with feathers, as charms
against thieves.

The chief, to whom the travellers were at once conducted, was an old man with a long white
beard, whose appearance would have been venerable and patriarchal had he not laughed and played
in quite a childish manner. The natives assembled in hundreds to see the strange-looking visitors,
and the latter had to place three men as sentinels outside their door to keep the curious at
a distance.

Lander says that Benin and Portuguese cloths are sold at Egga by many of its inhabitants, so
that it would appear that some kind of communication is kept up between the sea-coast and this
place. The people are very speculative and enterprising, and numbers of them employ all their
time solely in trading up and down the Niger. They live entirely in their canoes, over which
they have a shed, that answers completely every purpose for which it is intended, so that,
in their constant peregrinations, they have no need of any other dwelling or shelter than that
which their canoes afford them....

"Their belief," says Lander, "that we possessed the power of doing anything we wished, was
at first amusing enough, but their importunities went so far that they became annoying. They
applied to us for charms to avert wars and other national calamities, to make them rich, to
prevent the crocodiles from carrying off the people, and for the chief of the fishermen to
catch a canoe-load of fish every day, each request being accompanied with some sort of present,
such as country beer, goora-nuts, cocoa-nuts, lemons, yams, rice, &c., in quantity proportionate
to the value of their request.

"The curiosity of the people to see us is so intense, that we dare not stir out of doors, and
therefore we are compelled to keep our door open all day long for the benefit of the air, and
the only exercise which we can take is by walking round and round our hut like wild beasts
in a cage. The people stand gazing at us with visible emotions of amazement and terror; we
are regarded, in fact, in just the same light as the fiercest tigers in Europe. If we venture
to approach too near the doorway, they rush backwards in a state of the greatest alarm and
trepidation; but when we are at the opposite side of the hut they draw as near as their fears
will permit them, in silence and caution.

"Egga is a town of vast extent, and its population must be immense. Like all the towns on the
banks of the Niger, it is inundated every year. We can but conclude that the natives have their
own reasons for building their houses in situations which, in our eyes, are alike so inconvenient
and unhealthy. Perhaps it may be because the soil of the surrounding districts consists of
a black greasy mould of extraordinary fertility, supplying all the necessaries of life at the
cost of very little trouble. Although the King of Egga looked more than a hundred years old,
he was very gay and light-hearted. The chief people of the town met in his hut, and spent whole
days in conversation. This company of greybeards, for they are all old, laugh so heartily at
the sprightliness of their own wit, that it is an invariable practice, when any one passes
by, to stop and listen outside, and they add to their noisy merriment so much good-will, that
we hear nothing from the hut in which the aged group are revelling during the day but loud
peals of laughter and shouts of applause."

One day the old chief wished to show off his accomplishments of singing and dancing, expecting
to astonish his visitors.

"He frisked," says Lander, "beneath the burden of five-score, and shaking his hoary locks,
capered over the ground to the manifest delight of the bystanders, whose plaudits, though confined,
as they always are, to laughter, yet tickled the old man's fancy to that degree, that he was
unable to keep up his dance any longer without the aid of a crutch. With its assistance he
hobbled on a little while, but his strength failed him; he was constrained for the time to
give over, and he set himself down at our side on the threshold of the hut. He would not acknowledge
his weakness to us for the world, but endeavoured to pant silently, and suppress loud breathings,
that we might not hear him. How ridiculous, yet how natural, is this vanity! He made other
unavailing attempts to dance, and also made an attempt to sing, but nature would not second
his efforts, and his weak piping voice was scarcely audible. The singers, dancers, and musicians,
continued their noisy mirth, till we were weary of looking at and listening to them, and as
bedtime was drawing near, we desired them to depart, to the infinite regret of the frivolous
but merry old chief."

Mallam-Dendo, however, tried to dissuade the English from continuing the descent of the river.
Egga, he said, was the last Nouffe town, the power of the Fellatahs extended no further, and
between it and the sea dwelt none but savage and barbarous races, always at war with each other.
These rumours and the stories told by the natives to the Landers' people of the danger they
would run of being murdered or sold as slaves so terrified the latter, that they refused to
embark, declaring their intention of going back to Cape Coast Castle by the way that they came.
Thanks to the firmness of the brothers this mutiny was quelled, and on the 22nd October the
explorers left Egga, firing a parting salute of three musket-shots. A few miles further down,
a sea-gull flew over their heads, a sure sign that they were approaching the sea, and with
it, it appeared all but certain, the end of their wearisome journey.

Several small and wretched villages, half under water, and a large town at the foot of a mountain,
which looked ready to overwhelm it, the name of which the travellers could not learn, were
passed in succession. They met a great number of canoes built like those on the Bonny and Calabar
Rivers. The crews stared in astonishment at the white men whom they dared not address. The
low marshy banks of the Niger were now gradually exchanged for loftier, richer, and more fertile
districts.

Kacunda, where the people of Egga had recommended Lander to halt, is on the western bank of
the river. From a distance its appearance is singularly picturesque. The natives were at first
alarmed at the appearance of the travellers. An old Mallam acting as Mohammedan priest and
schoolmaster took them under his protection, and, thanks to him, the brothers received a warm
welcome in the capital of the independent kingdom of Nouffé. The information collected in this
town, or rather in this group of four villages, coincided with that obtained at Egga. Richard
Lander therefore resolved to make the rest of the voyage by night and to load his four remaining
guns and two pistols with balls and shot. To the great astonishment of the natives, who could
not understand such contempt of danger, the explorers left Kacunda with three loud cheers,
committing their cause to the hands of God. They passed several important towns, which they
avoided. The river now wound a great deal, flowing from the south to south-east, and then to
the south-west between lofty hills.

On the 25th October, the English found themselves opposite the mouth of a large river. It was
the Tchadda or Benuwe. At its junction with the Niger is an important town called Cutum Curaffi.
After a narrow escape from being swallowed up in a whirlpool and crushed against the rocks,
Lander having found a suitable spot showing signs of habitation, determined to land. That this
place had been visited a little time previously, was proved by two burnt out fires with some
broken calabashes, fragments of earthenware vessels, cocoa-nut shells, staves of powder-barrels,
&c., which the travellers picked up with some emotion, for they proved that the natives had
had dealings with Europeans. Some women ran away out of a village which three of Lander's men
entered with a view to get the materials for a fire. The exhausted explorers were resting on
mats when they were suddenly surrounded by a crowd of half-naked men armed with guns, bows
and arrows, cutlasses, iron barbs, and spears. The coolness and presence of mind of the brothers
alone averted a struggle, the issue of which could not be dubious. 'I thought you were children
of heaven fallen from the skies,' said the chief, in explanation of this sudden change."

This scene took place in the famous market-town of Bocqua, of which the travellers had so often
heard, whither the people come up from the coast to exchange the merchandise of the whites
for slaves brought in large numbers from Funda, on the opposite bank.

The information obtained at Bocqua was most satisfactory; the sea was only ten days' journey
off. There was no danger in going down the river, the chief said, though the people on the
banks were a bad lot.

Following the advice of this chief, the travellers passed the fine town of Atta without stopping,
and halted at Abbagaca, where the river divides into several branches, and whose chief showed
insatiable greed. Refusing to halt at several villages, whose inhabitants begged for a sight
of the white strangers, they were finally obliged to land at the village of Damuggo, where
a little man wearing a waistcoat which had once formed part of a uniform, hailed them in English,
crying out: "Halloa, ho! you English, come here!" He was an emissary from the King of Bonny
come to buy slaves for the master.

The chief of Damuggo, who had never before seen white men, received the explorers very kindly,
held public rejoicings in their honour and detained them with constant fêtes until the 4th
November. Although the fetich consulted by him presaged that they would meet with a thousand
dangers before reaching the sea, this monarch supplied them with an extra canoe, some rowers,
and a guide.

The sinister predictions of the fetich were soon fulfilled. John and Richard Lander were embarked
in different boats. As they passed a large town called Kirree they were stopped by war-canoes,
each containing forty men wearing European clothes, minus the trousers.

Each canoe carried what at first sight appeared to be the Union Jack flying from a long bamboo
cane fixed in the stern, a four or six pounder was lashed to each prow, and every black sailor
was provided with a musket.

The two brothers were taken to Kirree, where a palaver was held upon their fate. Fortunately
the Mallams or Mohammedan priests interfered in their favour, and some of their property was
restored to them, but the best part had gone to the bottom of the river with John Lander's
canoe. Nine elephants' tusks, the finest I had seen in the country, which had been given us
by the kings of Wow-wow and Boussa; a quantity of ostrich feathers, some handsome leopard skins,
a great variety of seeds, all our buttons, cowries, and needles, which were necessary for us
to purchase provisions with, all were missing, and said to have been sunk in the river."

This was like going down in port. After crossing Africa from Badagry to Boussa, escaping all
the dangers of navigating the Niger, getting free from the hands of so many rapacious chiefs,
to be shipwrecked six day's journey from the sea, to be made slaves of or condemned to death
just on the eve of making known to Europe the results of so many sufferings endured, so many
dangers escaped, so many obstacles happily surmounted! To have traced the course of the Niger
from Boussa, to be on the point of determining the exact position of its mouth and then to
find themselves stopped by wretched pirates was really too much, and bitter indeed were the
reflections of the brothers during the interminable palaver upon their fate.

Although their stolen property was partially restored to them, and the negro who had begun
the attack upon them was condemned to be beheaded, the brothers were none the less regarded
as prisoners, and they were marched off to Obie, king of the country, who would decide what
was to be done with them. It was evident that the robbers were not natives of the country,
but had only entered it with a view to pillage. They probably counted on trading in two or
three such market-towns as Kirree if they did not meet with any boats but such as were too
strong to be plundered. For the rest, all the tribes of this part of the Niger seemed to be
at daggers drawn with each other, and the trade in provisions was carried on under arms. After
two days' row the canoes came in sight of Eboe, at a spot where the stream divides into three
"rivers" of great width, with marshy level banks covered with palm-trees. An hour later one
of the boatmen, a native of Eboe, cried, "There is my country." Here fresh difficulties awaited
the travellers. Obie, king of Eboe, a young man with a refined and intelligent countenance,
received the white men with cordiality. His dress, which reminded his visitors of that of the
King of Yarriba, was adorned with such a quantity of coral that he might have been called the
coral king.

Obie seemed to be affected by the account the English gave of the struggle in which they had
lost all their merchandise, but the aid he gave them was by no means proportioned to the warmth
of the sentiments which he expressed, indeed he let them all but die of hunger.

"The Eboe people," says the narrative, "like most Africans, are extremely indolent, and cultivate
yams, Indian corn, and plantains only. They have abundance of goats and fowls, but few sheep
are to be seen, and no bullocks. The city, which has no other name than the Eboe country, is
situated on an open plain; it is immensely large, contains a vast population, and is the capital
of a kingdom of the same name. It has, for a series of years, been the principal slave-mart
for native traders from the coast, between the Bonny and Old Calabar rivers; and for the production
of its palm-oil it has obtained equal celebrity. Hundreds of men from the rivers mentioned
above come up for the purpose of trade, and numbers of them are at present residing in canoes
in front of the town. Most of the oil purchased by Englishmen at the Bonny and adjacent rivers
is brought from thence, as are nearly all the slaves which are annually exported from those
places by the French, Spaniards, and Portuguese. It has been told us by many that the Eboe
people are confirmed anthropophagi; and this opinion is more prevalent among the tribes bordering
on that kingdom, than with the natives of more remote districts."

From what the travellers could learn, it was pretty certain that Obie would not let them go
without exacting a considerable ransom. He may doubtless have been driven to this by the importunity
of his favourites, but it was more likely the result of the greed of the people of Bonny and
Brass, who quarrelled as to which tribe should carry off the English to their country.

It goes on in a similar strain heaping curses upon the natives, and charging them with having
endeavoured to wreck Dow's vessel at the mouth of the river with a view to dividing his property
amongst them. King Jacket was designated as an arrant rogue and a desperate thief. Boy was
the only one of common honesty or trustworthiness.

After an endless palaver, Obie declared that according to the laws and customs of the country
he had a right to look upon the Landers and their people as his property, but that, not wishing
to abuse his privileges, he would set them free in exchange for the value of twenty slaves
in English merchandise. This decision, which Richard Lander tried in vain to shake, plunged
the brothers into the depths of despair, a state of mind soon succeeded by an apathy and indifference
so complete that they could not have made the faintest effort to recover their liberty. Add
to these mental sufferings the physical weakness to which they were reduced by want of food,
and we shall have some idea of their state of prostration. Without resources of any kind, robbed
of their needles, cowries, and merchandise, they were reduced to the sad necessity of begging
their bread.

It was Boy who finally achieved the rescue of the Landers, for he consented to pay to Obie
the ransom he demanded for them and their people. Boy himself was very moderate, asking for
nothing in return for his trouble and the risk he ran in taking the white men to Brass, but
fifteen bars or fifteen slaves, and a barrel of rum. Although this demand was exorbitant, Lander
did not hesitate to write an order on Richard Lake, captain of an English vessel at anchor
in Brass river, for thirty-six bars.

The king's canoe, on which the brothers embarked on the 12th November, carried sixty persons,
forty of whom were rowers. It was hollowed out of a single tree-trunk, measured more than fifty
feet long, carried a four-pounder in the prow, an arsenal of cutlasses and grape-shot, and
was laden with merchandise of every kind. The vast tracts of cultivated land on either side
of the river showed that the population was far more numerous than would have been supposed.
The scenery was flat, open, and varied; and the soil, a rich black mould, produced luxuriant
trees, and green shrubs of every shade. At seven p.m. on the 11th November the canoe left the
chief branch of the Niger and entered the Brass river. An hour later, Richard Lander recognized
with inexpressible delight tidal waves.

A little farther on Boy's canoe came up with those of Gun and Forday. The latter was a venerable-looking
old man, in spite of his wretched semi-European semi-native clothing and a very strong predilection
for rum, of which he consumed a great quantity, although his manners and conversation betrayed
no signs of excessive drinking.

That was a strange escort which accompanied the two Englishmen as far as the town of Brass.

Brass consists of two towns, one belonging to Forday, the other to King Jacket. The priests
performed some curious ceremonies before disembarking, evidently having reference to the whites.
Was the result of the consultation of the fetish of the town favourable or not to the visitors?
The way the natives treated them would answer that question. Before he set foot on land Richard
Lander, to his great delight, recognized a white man on the banks. He was the captain of a
Spanish schooner at anchor in the river.

Another place, called Pilot Town by the Europeans, on account of the number of pilots living
in it, is situated at the mouth of the river Nun, seventy miles from Brass. King Forday demanded
four bars before the Landers left the town, saying it was customary for every white man who
came to Brass by the river to make that payment. It was impossible to evade compliance, and
Lander drew another bill on Captain Lake. At this price Richard Lander obtained permission
to go down in Boy's royal canoe to the English brig stationed at the mouth of the river. His
brother and his servants were not to be set free until the return of the king. On his arrival
on the brig, Lander's astonishment and shame was extreme when he found that Lake refused to
give him any help whatever. The instructions given to the brothers from the ministry were read,
to prove that he was not an impostor; but the captain answered,--

"If you think that you have a ---- fool to deal with, you are mistaken; I'll not give a ----
flint for your bill. I would not give a ---- for it."

Overwhelmed with grief at such unexpected behaviour from a fellow-countryman, Richard Lander
returned to Boy's canoe, not knowing to whom to apply, and asked his escort to take him to
Bonny, where there were a number of English vessels. The king refused to do this, and the explorer
was obliged to try once more to move the captain, begging him to give him at least ten muskets,
which might possibly satisfy Forday.

"I have told you already," answered Lake, "that I will not let you have even a flint, so bother
me no more."

"If you can get them on board," replied the captain, "I will take them away; but as I have
told you before, you do not get a flint from me."

At last Lander persuaded Boy to go back and fetch his brother and his people. The king at first
declined to do so without receiving some payment on account, and it was only with difficulty
that he was induced to forego this demand. When Lake found out that Lander's servants were
able-bodied men, who could replace the sailors he had lost by death or who were down with fever,
he relented a little. This yielding mood did not, however, last long, for he declared that
if John and his people did not come in three days he would start without them. In vain did
Richard prove to him beyond a doubt that if he did so the white men would be sold as slaves.
The captain would not listen to him, only answering, "I can't help it; I shall wait no longer."
Such inhumanity as this is fortunately very rare; and a wretch who could thus insult those
not merely his equals, but so much his superiors, ought to be pilloried. At last, on the 24th
November, after weathering a strong breeze which made the passage of the bar very rough and
all but impossible, John Lander arrived on board. He had had to bear a good many reproaches
from Boy, for whom, it must be confessed, there was some excuse; for had he not at his own
cost rescued the brothers and their people from slavery, brought them down in his own canoe,
and fed them, although very badly, all on the strength of their promise to pay him with as
much beef and rum as he could consume? whereas he was, after all, roughly received by Lake,
told that his advances would never be refunded, and treated as a thief. Certainly he had cause
to complain and any one else would have made his prisoners pay dearly for the disappointment
of so many hopes, and the loss of so much money.

For all this, however, Boy brought John Lander safely to the brig. Captain Lake received the
traveller pretty cordially, but declared his intention of making the king go back without so
much as an obolus. Poor Boy was full of the most gloomy forebodings. His haughty manner was
exchanged for an air of deprecating humility. An abundant meal was placed before him, but he
scarcely touched it. Richard Lander, disgusted with the stinginess and bad faith of Lake, and
unable to keep his promises, ransacked all his possessions; and finding, at last, five silver
bracelets and a sabre of native manufacture, which he had brought from Yarriba, he offered
these to Boy, who accepted them. Finally, the king screwed up courage enough to make his demand
to the captain, who, in a voice of thunder which it was difficult to believe could have come
from such a feeble body, declined to accede to it, enforcing his refusal with a shower of oaths
and threats, such as made Boy, who saw, moreover, that the vessel was ready to sail, beat a
hasty retreat, and hurry off to his canoe.

Thus ended the vicissitudes of the Brothers Lander's journey. They were in some danger in crossing
the bar, but that was their last. They reached Fernando Po, and then the Calabar River where
they embarked on the Carnarvon for Rio Janeiro, at which port Admiral Baker, then commanding
the station, got them a passage on board a transport-ship.

On the 9th June they disembarked at Portsmouth. Their first care, after sending an account
of their journey to Lord Goderich, then Colonial Secretary, was to inform that official of
the conduct of Captain Lake, conduct which was of a nature to compromise the credit of the
English Government. Orders were at once given by the minister for the payment of the sums agreed
upon, which were perfectly just and reasonable.

Thus was completely and finally solved the geographical problem which had for so many centuries
occupied the attention of the civilized world, and been the subject of so many different conjectures.
The Niger, or as the natives call it, the Joliba, or Quorra, is not connected with the Nile,
and does not lose itself in the desert sands or in the waters of Lake Tchad; it flows in a
number of different branches into the ocean on the coast of the Gulf of Guinea, at the point
known as Cape Formosa. The entire glory of this discovery, foreseen though it was by scientific
men, belongs to the Brothers Lander. The vast extent of country traversed by the Niger between
Yaoorie and the sea was completely unknown before their journey.

So soon as the discoveries made by Lander became known in England, several merchants formed
themselves into a company for developing the resources of the new districts. In July, 1832,
they equipped two steamers, the Quorra and Alburka, which, under the command of Messrs. Laird,
Oldfield, and Richard Lander, appended the Niger as far as Bocqua. The results of this commercial
expedition were deplorable. Not only was there absolutely no trade to be carried on with the
natives, but the crews of the vessels were decimated by fever. Finally, Richard Lander, who
had so often gone up and down the river, was mortally wounded by the natives, on the 27th January,
1834, and died on the morning of 5th February, at Fernando Po.

To complete our account of the exploration of Africa during the period under review, we have
still to speak of the various surveys of the valley of the Nile, the most important of which
were those by Cailliaud, Russegger, and Rüppell.

Frederic Cailliaud was born at Nantes in 1787, and arrived in Egypt in 1815, having previously
visited Holland, Italy, Sicily, part of Greece, and European or Asiatic Turkey, where he traded
in precious stones. His knowledge of geology and mineralogy won for him a cordial reception
from Mehemet Ali, who immediately on his arrival commissioned him to explore the course of
the Nile and the desert.

This first trip resulted in the discovery of emerald mines at Labarah, mentioned by Arab authors,
which had been abandoned for centuries. In the excavations in the mountain Cailliaud found
the lamps, crowbars, ropes, and tools used in working these mines by men in the employ of Ptolemy.
Near the quarries the traveller discovered the ruins of a little town, which was probably inhabited
by the ancient miners. To prove the reality of his valuable discovery he took back ten pounds'
weight of emeralds to Mehemet Ali.

Another result of this journey was the discovery by the French explorer of the old road from
Coptos to Berenice for the trade of India.

From September, 1819, to the end of 1832, Cailliaud, accompanied by a former midshipman named
Letorzec, was occupied in exploring all the known oases east of Egypt, and in tracing the Nile
to 10 degrees N. lat. On his first journey he reached Wady Halfa, and for his second trip he
made that place his starting-point. A fortunate accident did much to aid his researches. This
was the appointment of Ismail Pacha, son of Mehemet Ali, to the command of an expedition to
Nubia. To this expedition Cailliaud attached himself.

Leaving Daraou in November, 1820, Cailliaud arrived, on the 5th January in the ensuing year,
at Dongola, and reached Mount Barka in the Chaguy country, where are a vast number of ruins
of temples, pyramids, and other monuments. The fact of this district bearing the name of Merawe
had given rise to an opinion that in it was situated the ancient capital of Ethiopia. Cailliaud
was enabled to show this to be erroneous.

