The testimony was silent as to any act of publication by the traverser of more than one of
the publications referred to in the indictment, and in that he was shown to have had no improper
design. We were told, however, that the possession was proof of criminal design. Was it to
be endured that, without authority of law, and contrary to all law, private papers should thus
be wrested from the possession of an individual, and then be offered as a proof of malicious
intent and malicious publication? In any prosecution for a libel it was necessary to prove
a malicious publication. Malice may be inferred to an individual from the simple act of publication.
But in cases of seditious libel, it was necessary, in order to infer malice, to prove that
the publication was made to such persons as that the public could be injured by it. His case
being destitute of such proof, the traverser was entitled to a verdict in his favor. Mr. Coxe
went into a minute examination of the testimony to prove that the pamphlets were brought innocently
and without intent to circulate them. Those in the box were brought with other papers, and
were packed by a lady, for the purpose of wrappers, &c., for plants. The pamphlets given to
him in New York, by a person from whom he had purchased a book, he had received without any
knowledge of their contents, and the package remained unopened in his trunk until it was taken
by the constables. No mischief had been produced; no insurrection raised; no human being injured,
except the unfortunate traverser himself, whom, after an incarceration of eight months, the
prosecutor wishes you still further to punish. This was a reproach to our community; a burlesque
of our courts of justice; it had no support in principle or reason. Was this the boasted intelligence,
spirit, and generosity of the South!

From a review of the testimony it would be found that the traverser came into possession of
the papers innocently; that he retained them innocently; and that they were never distributed
by him.

Mr. Coxe then proceeded to maintain, at length, that, granting the publication, there was nothing
in the quotations from the pamphlets incorporated in the indictment from which a criminal intent
could be inferred. If there was no criminal matter in the extracts, then there was no crime
charged. He went on to prove that they did not contain a single sentiment or expression on
the subject of slavery, and its political, moral, and social results, which had not also been
used by slaveholders; by the statesmen, and lawyers, and writers of the South.

Mr. Coxe proceeded to compare the language charged as seditious in the indictment, with passages
from colonization speeches made by Mr. Key himself; by Mr. Archer, Mr. Custis, Bishop Smith,
General Harper; by Patrick Henry, in the Virginia Convention; Mr. Pinckney, in the Legislature
of New York; by Mr. Jefferson, in his notes on Virginia; by Judge Tucker, in his notes to Blackstone's
Commentaries; and by other distinguished gentlemen at the South.

Neither he, nor the jury, nor the District Attorney, could distinguish the language and sentiment
of one of those parties from the other. If there was any difference it was in this, that the
northern publications were somewhat more temperate than the others. The controversy which had
grown up between the rival Societies for Colonization and Abolition had given birth to this
excitement. Which of them was right, or whether they were both right or wrong, was not now
a matter in issue; but he would allude to the fact that the sincerity and personal excellence
of the abolitionists had been warmly acknowledged by the amiable Secretary of the Colonization
Society, and by one of its most distinguished members and friends, Mr. Gerrit Smith.

But the District Attorney denounced the Abolition Societies and Dr. Crandall, whom he alleged
to be a member of the American Abolition Society. This assertion was unsupported by testimony,
and untrue in fact. One of the constables, indeed, had testified that Crandall, after his arrest,
admitted that he was a member of that society; but this was disproved by all the other testimony
in the case.

Mr. Coxe, without defending the Abolition Societies, here undertook to prove, from various
documentary evidence, that there was, after all, but very little difference between the sentiments
and objects of the colonizationists and the abolitionists.

In conclusion, Mr. Coxe remarked, that if any the smallest injury had resulted from the traverser's
sojourn in this District, it was not his fault. He was innocently occupied in professional
pursuits, and was quietly pursuing the even tenor of his way. Whatever excitement and injury
had grown out of his visit here was solely attributable to the illegal course taken by the
prosecutor in procuring his arrest and the seizure of his papers, which were harmlessly reposing
in his trunk.

With these remarks, and his thanks for the patient hearing afforded him by the jury, Mr. Coxe
submitted the case, with entire confidence, to their hands.

Mr. F. S. Key. I consider this one of the most important cases ever tried here; I wish the
prisoner every advantage of a fair trial. It is a case to try the question, whether our institutions
have any means of legal defence against a set of men of most horrid principles, whose means
of attack upon us are insurrection, tumult, and violence. The traverser defends himself by
justifying the libels. We are told that they are harmless--that they have no tendency to produce
the horrid results which we deprecate. We have been told that this community has not been endangered.
The Emancipator has been read, the extracts from it justified, this prosecution scouted. If
such publications are justifiable, then are we, indeed, at the tender mercy of the Abolitionist,
and the sooner we make terms of capitulation with him the better. What does he propose for
the slave? Immediate emancipation. In one instant the chains of the slave must snap asunder.
Without delay, and without preparation, he becomes a citizen, a legislator, goes to the polls,
and appoints our rulers. If this be the plan, then am I ready, as the opposite counsel expresses
it, to seek refuge in other parts of the United State. Are you willing, gentlemen, to abandon
your country; to permit it to be taken from you, and occupied by the Abolitionist, according
to whose taste it is to associate and amalgamate with the negro? Or, gentlemen, on the other
hand, are there laws in this community to defend you from the immediate Abolitionist, who would
open upon you the floodgates of such extensive wickedness and mischief? There are such laws,
gentlemen; they are as essential to your prosperity and peace as is the sacred law of self-defence
to every individual.

But you have heard it denied that there are such laws; that these pamphlets are incendiary;
and this prosecution is likened to those under the sedition law--a law reprobated and repealed--and
hence we may infer that a man may publish what he pleases, however seditious and insurrectionary
it may be. Not so. The repeal of the sedition law left the common law, by which these offences
always were punishable, in full force; and, gentlemen, it is well known that the principal
argument against the sedition law was, that the offences which it punished were sufficiently
provided for already by the common law as it stood. But the traverser is not content with acting
merely on the defensive. It appears that he is a persecuted innocent man; upon an illegal warrant,
without proper evidence, attacked, robbed, put in jail; all for having a few harmless publications
about him. Why does not this persecuted man bring his action for false imprisonment? Why do
not his counsel advise it? The warrant was issued upon probable cause on oath. The magistrate
was bound to issue it, but it made the constable the judge of what were incendiary papers!
Yes! and had the constable have taken any other course he would have been responsible to the
traverser for so doing. But carry out the law as expounded on the other side. Here's a counterfeiter
caught, with his tools, plates, &c., all found upon a search for stolen goods. The gentleman
would bring him before a magistrate, have the warrant quashed, his goods returned to him, and
should the articles, thus found, be used in evidence against him, it would be horrid, tyrannical,
oppressive, shocking, and enough to make a man runaway from a country where there are such
laws, and find refuge in some other. Gentlemen, if in searching for stolen goods you find evidence
of counterfeiting, you may use it for the purpose of convicting the culprit of either offence.

But the papers were safe in Dr. Crandall's trunk. Yes, all were there and safe, but those taken
out and circulated, exactly as the case would have been had they been counterfeit bank notes,
and not incendiary pamphlets. Gentlemen, did he not give Mr. King one, because he thought that
he would not mention it? And, gentlemen, would he not as likely give to those who could not
tell? At every step in our community, he meets such men; he is enjoined in the language of
these papers, to give them currency "in highways and by-ways." This man should be glad of the
opportunity, by public trial, to exonerate himself from the charges against him. They are distinctly
made--the testimony clearly laid down--testimony, in my opinion, ample for his conviction.
There are two questions in this case: are the libels charged criminal?--are they proved to
have been published by the traverser? I call your attention to the libels and to their tendency.
The Colonization Society published them only to denounce them. The Colonization Society only
contemplates free negroes, and has nothing to do with slavery.

Mr. Key here explained the difference between the papers read by the traverser's counsel and
those charged in the indictment, and showed that the Kentucky synod, the grand jury of our
District, &c. were for gradual emancipation by the whites, and not violence by the blacks,
&c. He thought having a number of these printed libels stronger proof against the traverser
than having only one written; commented upon these papers coming through the post office with
only one cent postage, as strong evidence that they were sent in here; upon the fact that none
of his witnesses testified to his character or pursuits within the last two years; upon the
improbability of such a man as Crandall was represented to be, of high character as a man and
a physician, leaving Peekskill to go botanizing merely. Mr. K. here commented upon the inflammatory
character of the libel alluding to the colonial, and, as he contended, the general system of
slavery. Mr. K. here read again from the pamphlet, and then added: I am accused of being emphatic;
I confess my blood boils when I read the closing sentence of this libel--this taunting us with
the torch of the negro at our threshold, and his knife at our throats--this fiendish allusion
to the beauty and chivalry of the South; it displays cool and demoniac malignity! Mr. K. then
alluded to the pictures, saying that they could be meant only for the illiterate, and tended
only to insurrection and violence. Mr. K. animadverted upon the speeches and opinions of eminent
Southern men, quoted by the traverser's counsel, to show that their objects were different
from those of the abolitionists. Mr. Key remarked, with great severity, on the abstract proposition
of the sinfulness of slavery, and the declaration in the libels of the "South being awakened
from their snoring by the thunder of the Southampton massacre." He contended that Crandall
admitted, in his examinations at the jail, that all the papers he had were sent from New York,
and came in a box; and said nothing about having received two parcels; and that he also admitted,
that he had all the papers sent, but twelve or thirteen, and argued that those twelve or thirteen
were circulated here, amongst improper persons: that if otherwise, the traverser might and
could prove to him, to whom they were delivered.

He adverted to the slander contained in the libels, that a free person of color might be sold
here for jail fees when apprehended as a runaway slave. He commented on the evidence of Mr.
Austin, and argued that it was far from showing that the packages were not broken by Dr. Crandall,
and part of them taken out and distributed. He also argued that Dr. Crandall took no pains
to have the pamphlet returned to him, which he delivered to Mr. King, and did not destroy those
he had after hearing that there was an excitement on the subject, and that none of these libels
and picture books were used by him, as the other newspapers were, to preserve his plants, thereby
proving his disposition to preserve and circulate them. Mr. Key also referred, in corroboration
of what C.'s views were, to his declarations to Jeffers' favorable to the amalgamation of the
blacks and whites, and also those to Colclazier and Tippet, "that slavery brought the slaveholder
and slave into promiscuous sensual intercourse," "and that he was willing that the North and
the South should be arrayed against each other." Mr. Key added: This is a subject to us not
of indifference. It has been one of much excitement, and we are bound to act in self-defence.
If in your conscience, gentlemen, you think the traverser innocent, acquit him. Judge of these
libels--the words--the meaning--the tendency--read their endorsement "please read and circulate"
in the traverser's handwriting--look at these pictures!--hear his admission, "I gave them to
a man who I thought would not tell on me." There are twelve or thirteen of them brought here
by him unaccounted for; hear his prevarications in the jail and elsewhere: and if he is an
innocent man, cruelly imprisoned under an illegal warrant, and these vile, calumniatory libels,
are actually this innocent, persecuted gentleman's property--stolen from him--then gentlemen
return him his property and let him go free. It is with you, gentlemen; I ask of you but to
do your conscientious duty.

       *       *       *       *       *

The jury retired, and, after a short deliberation, agreed upon a verdict of NOT GUILTY. After
which they separated, and returned their verdict into Court the next morning.

Some of the words in this text were verified by referencing the document "The trial of Reuben
Crandall, M.D., charged with publishing seditious libels, by circulating the publications of
the American Anti-Slavery Society, before the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia, held
at Washington, in April, 1836, occupying the court the period of ten days." (New-York: H. R.
Piercy, 1836)

The following corrections have been made to this text:

   Page 6: Removed stray quote marks (If a man in manners)

  Page 10: Changed choses to chooses (to every body who chooses)

  Page 14: Changed posession to possession (traverser's possession)

  Page 18: Added missing end punctuation (Question by Key.)

  Page 19: Changed Crrndall's to Crandall's (Dr. Crandall's reply)

  Page 23: Changed did'nt to didn't (he didn't know which)

  Page 28: Added missing word 'to' (I have to say to them)

  Page 29: Added missing quote marks ("I hope I may be excused)

  Page 30: Removed stray quote marks (run her hull under.)

  Page 31: Changed desarts to deserts (its wide-spread deserts)

  Page 31: Removed duplicate word 'as' (so far as he had seen him)

