East India Company.--Although the East India Company can alone import tea, they cannot choose
their own time of sale; they are compelled to put up the tea at an advance of one penny (they
do at one farthing) per lb.; they are obliged to have twelve months' stock in hand; and while
the tea in America has increased in price and diminished in consumption, the very reverse has
taken place in England, as official returns prove!

China presents the very remarkable spectacle of a civilization entirely political, whose principal
aim has constantly been to draw closer the bonds which unite the society it formed, and to
merge, by its laws, the interest of the individual in that of the public; an empire possessing
an active, skilful, and contented population of 155,000,000 souls, who are spread over 1,372,450
square miles of the fairest and, probably, earliest inhabited region of the globe--that maintains
a standing army of 1,182,000 men, and levies a revenue of only 11,649,912l. sterling--an empire
that has preserved the records of its dominion and the integrity of its name from a period
of three thousand years antecedent to our era, while the most powerful monarchies of remote
or modern ages have dwindled into nothingness, or been borne towards the ocean of eternity,
by the swiftly destructive gulf of time,--an empire whose people have materially contributed
to advance the civilization of Europe and America, by the discovery of the most useful arts
and sciences, such as writing,[3] astronomy, the mariner's compass, gunpowder, sugar, silk,
porcelain, the smelting and combination of metals,--and, in fine, enjoying within its own territories
all the necessaries and conveniencies, and most of the luxuries of life; standing, as it proudly
asserts, in no need of intercourse with other countries,[4] which it is its studied policy
to prohibit,[5] openly and arrogantly proclaims its total independence of every nation in the
world!

Origin of the Tea Trade of the East India Company.--In 1668, the East India Company ordered
"one hundred pounds weight of goode tey" to be sent home on speculation. A taste for the Chinese
herb was created and carefully fostered; the invoice was increased from year to year, until
it now amounts to 30,000,000 pounds weight (notwithstanding the excessive duty of 100 per cent,
and the onerous restrictions of the commutation act, since 1784), yielding an annual revenue
to government, on a luxury of life, of about 3,300,000l. sterling, with scarcely any trouble
or expense in the collecting;--employing 35,000 tons of the finest shipping,--requiring annually
nearly 1,000,000l. sterling worth of cotton, woollen, and iron manufactures, and affording
employment to a numerous class of society, for the wholesale and retail dealing in a leaf collected
on the mountains of a distant continent!

To enable them the better to prosecute this valuable commerce, the East India Company sought
and obtained permission to build a factory at Canton, where their agents were permitted to
reside six months in the year--a favour specifically accorded as a matter of compassion to
foreigners, who are carefully debarred all intercourse with the interior of the country; a
dread being entertained that the introduction of Europeans to settle in China, would lead (according
also to ancient prophecy) to the total subversion of the empire.

Other brunches of trade were subsequently added to that of tea. In 1773, the East India Company
made a small adventure of opium[6] from Bengal to Canton; and the consumption of opium increased
as rapidly among the Chinese as tea did among the English, until it now yields (although a
contraband trade) 14,000,000 Spanish dollars annually,[7] and pays a revenue to the Indian
Government of 1,800,000l. sterling. Raw cotton forms another extensive article of export to
China; it is in general a less profitable remittance than bills of exchange, but the exportation
is encouraged for the benefit of the Indian territories.

Character of the Chinese.--The Chinese are a haughty and independent race of people, whose
commercial policy it is to prohibit, as much as possible, every species of manufactures[8]
and bullion; and encourage the importation of food, and raw produce; holding themselves aloof
from Europeans, and particularly jealous of Great Britain, on account of the proximity of her
Indian empire; exacting upwards of 1,000l. in fees and port dues[9] on each foreign vessel
that enters Canton, the only harbour to which they are admitted,[10] imposing severe sea and
inland customs and regulations regarding woollen and other manufactures, entirely interdicting
some branches of trade, and permitting all by sufferance, or as a matter of favour rather than
from necessity, or by right.

Tea in Ireland.--In Ireland, the consumption of tea in the year 1828, was 1,300,000 lbs. less
than in 1827; and although the population of Ireland has rapidly increased, indeed, nearly
doubled itself, since the commencement of the present century, yet the quantity of tea imported
into that country is 400,000 lbs. less in 1828, than it was in 1800!

  Tea in America and England.--

  American consumption of tea.
         1819--5,480,884 lbs.
         1827--5,372,956
               ---------
  Decrease!      107,828 lbs.

  British consumption of tea.

         1819--24,093,619 lbs.
         1827--27,841,284
               ----------
  Increase      3,747,665 lbs.

  Consumption of Sugar.--

  In France each individual, annually 5 lbs.
  Hamburgh          do.     do.      10
  Germany           do. throughout    6
  United States     do.     do.       8
  Ireland           do.     do.       3
  Great Britain     do.     do.      14

Fourteen pounds of sugar per annum, will afford but little more than half an ounce a day to
each individual; a quantity, which it is well known the youngest child will consume, and yet
a large portion of the sugar entered for home consumption, is used in breweries, and distilleries,
so that it is even doubtful, whether the personal direct consumption of tea or sugar be the
greatest; notwithstanding the latter may be had in such great abundance and in every country
within the tropics.

Price of Tea in China.--Bohea, which cannot be purchased in China at less than eight-pence
half-penny, may be obtained at Antwerp for 7-3/4d.; in France for 6-1/2d.; and at Hamburg for
5d.! Congou, of which the Canton price is from 11d. to 1s. per lb., may be bought in France
at 10-1/2d., and at Hamburg from 8-1/4d. to 10-1/4d.! Canton price for Hyson, 1s. 9-3/4d.;
French price 1s. 8-1/2d. Young Hyson costs in Canton about 1s. 8-1/2d. per lb., and only one
half that sum at Hamburg!! The Chinese cannot afford to sell Twankay at less than 11d. per
lb.; but the American speculators enable the good people of Hamburg to drink it at seven-pence
farthing! Souchong, a good quality tea, sells at Hamburg for five-pence per lb., which is the
same price as the vilest Bohea costs in the Hamburg market, and is only one-half the price
of Bohea in Canton.

Cost of a pound of Seven Shilling Tea.--Take a pound of Congou for instance, according to the
evidence of Mr. Mills, a tea broker, before the House of Lords:

  One pound of good Congou,
  put up at the East India
  Company's sales at --------------- 1  8
  Buyers purposely and for
  their own advantage raise it ----- 0  9
                                     ----

         Purchasing price by the Brokers --- 2  5
  Duty levied by the Crown ----------------- 2  5
  Retailer's profit, brokerage, &c. -------- 2  2
                                             ----
                              Shop price     7  0

Thus it will be seen, the tea that the Company offers for sale to the consumer at 1s. 8d.,
or at the utmost say 2s., is enhanced to 7s. before it finds its way to the drinker's breakfast
table.

Coffee-Shops.--There are 3,000 coffee shops in London, in which are daily consumed 2,000 lbs.
of tea and 15,000 lbs. of coffee. The consumption of coffee in these establishments has increased
as follows:--In 1829, 1,978,600 lbs. In 1830, 2,251,300 lbs. In 1831, 2,899,870. Of tea the
increase has only been, during the same periods, 239,700 lbs.--249,400 lbs.--263,000 lbs.

    [3] A celebrated Hungarian, named Cosmös de Körös, has lately
        discovered in a Thibetian monastery, where he has been engaged
        translating an Encyclopaedia, that lithography and movable
        wooden types were known to the Chinese many centuries ago.

    [4] A Chinese who leaves his country is considered as a traitor,
        and is punished with death if he ever return to it.

    [5] The grand maxim of Confucius is, "to despise foreign
        commodities."

    [6] The Chinese use this stimulant as we do wine and spirits, and
        with perhaps, less deleterious consequences to their health,
        and less evil results to their morals.

    [7] About 7,000,000 of which, or bars or moulds of silver to that
        amount, are sent to India, the Chinese being unable to make
        sufficient return in merchandise. This remittance is of
        material assistance in helping to provide funds on the spot
        for the purchase of tea.

    [8] A late No. of the Canton Register, mentions a fact, which is
        one instance out of many, of the desire to be independent of
        foreigners; it is as follows:--"Prussian blue, an article
        which was formerly brought in considerable quantities from
        England, is now totally shut out from the list of imports,
        in consequence of its mode of manufacture being acquired by a
        Chinaman in London; and from timely improvement it has been
        brought to that perfection which renders the consumers
        independent of foreign supply!"

    [9] The port dues on a vessel of 1,000 or of 100 tons are alike!

    [10] The Chinese will not admit a foreign nation to trade at two
        places; for instance, the Russians are excluded from Canton
        because they enjoy an overland trade at Kiachia, which is 4,
        311 miles from St. Petersburgh, and 1,014 miles distant from
        Pekin.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOX-HUNTING.

The following are the items of expenses, laid down by Colonel Cooke, in his "Observations on
Fox-hunting," published a few years since. The calculation supposes a four-times-a-week country;
but it is generally below the mark; we should say, at least one-half:--

  Fourteen horses ................................. £700
  Hounds' food, for fifty couples .................. 275
  Firing ............................................ 50
  Taxes ............................................ 120
  Two whippers-in, and feeder ...................... 210
  Earth stopping .................................... 80
  Saddlery ......................................... 100
  Farriery, shoeing, and medicine .................. 100
  Young hounds purchased, and expenses at walks..... 100
  Casualties ....................................... 200
  Huntsman's wages and his horses .................. 300
                                                   -----
                                                   £2235

Of course, countries vary much in expense from local circumstance; such as the necessity for
change of kennels, hounds sleeping out, &c. &c. In those which are called hollow countries,
consequently abounding in earths, the expense of earth-stopping often amounts to 200l. per
annum, and Northamptonshire is of this class. In others, a great part of the foxes are what
is termed stub-bred (bred above ground), which circumstance reduces the amount of this item.--Quarterly
Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER.

Curious Epitaph.--In Nichols's History of Leicestershire, is inserted the following epitaph,
to the memory of Theophilus Cave, who was buried in the chancel of the church of Barrow on Soar:

  "Here in this Grave there lies a Cave;
  We call a Cave a Grave;
  If Cave be Grave, and Grave be Cave,
  Then reader, judge, I crave,
  Whether doth Cave here lye in Grave,
  Or Grave here lye in Cave:
  If Grave in Cave here bury'd lye,
  Then Grave, where is thy victory?
  Goe, reader, and report here lyes a Cave
  Who conquers death, and buryes his own Cave."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Equality.--All men would necessarily have been equal, had they been without wants; it is the
misery attached to our species, which places one man in subjection to another: Inequality is
not the real grievance, but dependence. It is of little consequence for one man to be called
his highness, and another his holiness; but it is hard for one to be the servant of another.--Voltaire.

       *       *       *       *       *

The famous Duke of Cumberland showed more cleverness as a boy, than he ever did as a general.
Having displeased his mother one day, she sent him to his chamber, and when he appeared again,
she asked him what he had been doing. "Reading," replied the boy.--"Reading what?"--"The Scriptures."--"What
part of the Scriptures?"--"That part where it is written, 'Woman! what hast thou to do with
me?'" After the loss of a battle, an English prisoner observing to a French officer, that they
might have taken the duke himself prisoner; "Yes," replied the Frenchman, "but we took care
not to do that--he is of far more use to us at the head of your army."--Georgian Era.

       *       *       *       *       *

The letter Y.--Pythagoras used the Y as a symbol of human life. "Remember (says he) that the
paths of virtue and of vice resemble the letter Y. The foot representing infancy, and the forked
top the two paths of vice and virtue, one or the other of which people are to enter upon, after
attaining to the age of discretion."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Royal Combat.--Near the city of Gloucester, on the Severn, the river dividing, forms a small
island called Alney, which is famous for a royal combat fought on it, between Edmund Ironside
and Canute the Dane, to decide the fate of the kingdom, in sight of both their armies. Canute
was wounded, when he proposed an amicable division, and accordingly he obtained the northern
part; the southern falling to Edmund.

E.F.

Effect of Music.--A Scotch bag-piper traversing the mountains of Ulster, in Ireland, was one
evening encountered by a starved Irish wolf. In his distress the poor man could think of nothing
better than to open his wallet, and try the effects of his hospitality; he did so, and the
savage swallowed all that was thrown to him, with so improving a voracity as if his appetite
was but just returning to him. The whole stock of provision was, of course, soon spent, and
now his only recourse was to the virtues of his bagpipe; which the monster no sooner heard,
than he took to the mountains with the same precipitation he had left them. The poor piper
could not so perfectly enjoy his deliverance, but that, with an angry look, at parting, he
shook his head, saying, "Ay, are these your tricks? Had I known your humour, you should have
had your music before supper."--Bowyer's Anecdotes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Epitaph on Mr. Nightingale, Architect.

  As the birds were the first of the architect kind,
    And are still better builders than men,
  What wonders may spring from a Nightingale's mind,
    When St. Paul's was produced by a Wren.

       *       *       *       *       *

Poets.

  The effects of disappointed love ......Akenside.
  Part of a lady's dress ................Spencer.
  What the ladies do, and a weight ......Chatterton.
  A manufactory, and a weight ...........Milton.
  The prayers of a glutton ..............Moore.
  An indication of old age ..............Gray.
  What a mortgage will do ...............Cumberland.
  The contributions of a miser ..........Little.
  A troublesome companion ...............Bunyan.
  The soldier's home, and an alarm ......Campbell.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Pyramids.--The Egyptians, according to Herodotus, hated the memory of the kings who built
the pyramids. The great pyramid occupied a hundred thousand men for twenty years in its erection,
without counting the workmen who were employed in hewing the stones and conveying them to the
spot where the pyramid was built. Herodotus speaks of this work as a torment to the people,
and doubtless, the labour engaged in raising huge masses of stone, that was extensive enough
to employ a hundred thousand men for twenty years, equal to two millions of men for one year,
must have been fearfully tormenting. It has been calculated that the steam engines of England
worked by thirty-six thousand men, would raise the same quantity of stones from the quarry,
and elevate them to the same height as the great pyramid, in the short space of eighteen hours.
It was recorded on the pyramid, that the onions, radishes, and garlic, which the labourers
consumed, cost sixteen hundred talents of silver, which is equivalent to several million pounds.

SWAINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

The generality of mankind will not bear to be viewed too closely, or too
often: they lose their value on a nearer approach; which made the honest
countrymen say to his friend, who was boasting of a legacy bestowed upon
him by a person, into whose company he had accidentally fallen only once
in his life, "Ah, Jonathan, if he had seen thee twice, he would not have
left thee a farthing."
        Ode 13, lib. i.

  "Happy, thrice happy they, whose friendships prove
  One constant scene of unmolested love,
  Whose hearts right temper'd feel no various turns,
  No coolness chills them, and no madness burns.
  But free from anger, doubts, and jealous fear,
  Die as they liv'd, united and sincere."

       *       *       *       *       *

The love between friends is certainly most harmonious when wound up to the highest pitch; but
at that very time, is in greatest danger of breaking: and upon the whole, the strongest friendships
may be compared to the strongest towns, which are too well fortified to be taken by open attacks;
but are always liable to be undermined by treachery or surprise.

A.J.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the ancient German empire, such persons as endeavoured to sow sedition,
and disturb the public tranquillity, were condemned to become objects of
public notoriety and derision, by carrying a dog upon their shoulders,
from one great town to another. The Emperors, Otho I. and Frederick
Barbarossa, inflicted this punishment on noblemen of the highest rank.
  Fifth Year.

The Volume for 1828, (fourth edition,) 4s. 6d. The Volume for 1829 and 1830, (nearly out of
print.) and 1831, 5s. each.

"Any young gardener, who besides prosecuting his particular profession, wishes to be apprized
of what is going on in the great world of human action generally, cannot possibly spend 5s.
more efficiently than in the purchase of this book; * * * the first spare sovereign to the
acquisition of the four back volumes, and then subsequently continue the work annually."--Gardeners'
Magazine, (just published.)

Printed for JOHN LIMBIRD, 143, Strand.