Transcriber's note:                  
| |                                                 | |Obvious typographical errors have been
corrected | +-------------------------------------------------+

Vol. I.                   MARCH, 1906                   No. 1

MOTHER EARTH

P. O. Box            EMMA GOLDMAN, Publisher      10c. a Copy Madison Sq. Station, N. Y.

CONTENTS.

                                                         PAGE

Mother Earth    E. GOLDMAN and M. BAGINSKI                  1

The Song of the Storm-Finch    MAXIM GORKY                  4

Observations and Comments                                   5

The Tragedy of Women's Emancipation    E. GOLDMAN           9

Try Love    GRACE POTTER                                   18

Without Government    MAX BAGINSKI                         20

Vive Le Roi    FRANCES WAULS BJORKMAN                      27

Reflections of a Rich Man                                  28

Comstockery    JOHN R. CORYELL                             30

Don Quixote and Hamlet    TURGENIEFF                       40

On the Banks of Acheron    EDWIN BJORKMAN                  42

The British Elections and the Labor Parties    H. KELLY    44

And You?    BOLTON HALL                                    48

National Atavism    INTERNATIONALIST                       49

Mine Owners' Revenge    M. B.                              56

International Review                                       58

Literary Notes                                             61

Advertisements                                             63

10c. A COPY    $1.00 PER YEAR

Mother Earth

EMMA GOLDMAN, PUBLISHER P. O. BOX MADISON SQ. STATION, N. Y. CITY

Vol. I       MARCH, 1906       No. 1

MOTHER EARTH

There was a time when men imagined the Earth as the center of the universe. The stars, large
and small, they believed were created merely for their delectation. It was their vain conception
that a supreme being, weary of solitude, had manufactured a giant toy and put them into possession
of it.

When, however, the human mind was illumined by the torch-light of science, it came to understand
that the Earth was but one of a myriad of stars floating in infinite space, a mere speck of dust.

Man issued from the womb of Mother Earth, but he knew it not, nor recognized her, to whom he
owed his life. In his egotism he sought an explanation of himself in the infinite, and out
of his efforts there arose the dreary doctrine that he was not related to the Earth, that she
was but a temporary resting place for his scornful feet and that she held nothing for him but
temptation to degrade himself. Interpreters and prophets of the infinite sprang into being,
creating the "Great Beyond" and proclaiming Heaven and Hell, between which stood the poor,
trembling human being, tormented by that priest-born monster, Conscience.

In this frightful scheme, gods and devils waged eternal war against each other with wretched
man as the prize of victory; and the priest, self-constituted interpreter of the will of the
gods, stood in front of the only refuge from harm and demanded as the price of entrance that
ignorance, that asceticism, that self-abnegation which could but end in the complete subjugation
of man to superstition. He was taught that Heaven, the refuge, was the very antithesis of Earth,
which was the source of sin. To gain for himself a seat in Heaven, man devastated the Earth.
Yet she renewed herself, the good mother, and came again each Spring, radiant with youthful
beauty, beckoning her children to come to her bosom and partake of her bounty. But ever the
air grew thick with mephitic darkness, ever a hollow voice was heard calling: "Touch not the
beautiful form of the sorceress; she leads to sin!"

But if the priests decried the Earth, there were others who found in it a source of power and
who took possession of it. Then it happened that the autocrats at the gates of Heaven joined
forces with the powers that had taken possession of the Earth; and humanity began its aimless,
monotonous march. But the good mother sees the bleeding feet of her children, she hears their
moans, and she is ever calling to them that she is theirs.

To the contemporaries of George Washington, Thomas Paine and Thomas Jefferson, America appeared
vast, boundless, full of promise. Mother Earth, with the sources of vast wealth hidden within
the folds of her ample bosom, extended her inviting and hospitable arms to all those who came
to her from arbitrary and despotic lands--Mother Earth ready to give herself alike to all her
children. But soon she was seized by the few, stripped of her freedom, fenced in, a prey to
those who were endowed with cunning and unscrupulous shrewdness. They, who had fought for independence
from the British yoke, soon became dependent among themselves; dependent on possessions, on
wealth, on power. Liberty escaped into the wilderness, and the old battle between the patrician
and the plebeian broke out in the new world, with greater bitterness and vehemence. A period
of but a hundred years had sufficed to turn a great republic, once gloriously established,
into an arbitrary state which subdued a vast number of its people into material and intellectual
slavery, while enabling the privileged few to monopolize every material and mental resource.

During the last few years, American journalists have had much to say about the terrible conditions
in Russia and the supremacy of the Russian censor. Have they forgotten the censor here? a censor
far more powerful than him of Russia. Have they forgotten that every line they write is dictated
by the political color of the paper they write for; by the advertising firms; by the money
power; by the power of respectability; by Comstock? Have they forgotten that the literary taste
and critical judgment of the mass of the people have been successfully moulded to suit the
will of these dictators, and to serve as a good business basis for shrewd literary speculators?
The number of Rip Van Winkles in life, science, morality, art, and literature is very large.
Innumerable ghosts, such as Ibsen saw when he analyzed the moral and social conditions of our
life, still keep the majority of the human race in awe.

MOTHER EARTH will endeavor to attract and appeal to all those who oppose encroachment on public
and individual life. It will appeal to those who strive for something higher, weary of the
commonplace; to those who feel that stagnation is a deadweight on the firm and elastic step
of progress; to those who breathe freely only in limitless space; to those who long for the
tender shade of a new dawn for a humanity free from the dread of want, the dread of starvation
in the face of mountains of riches. The Earth free for the free individual!

                                                          EMMA GOLDMAN,
                                                          MAX BAGINSKI.

The Song of the Storm-Finch[A]

By MAXIM GORKY

     The strong wind is gathering the storm-clouds together
     Above the gray plain of the ocean so wide.
     The storm-finch, the bird that resembles dark lightning,
     Between clouds and ocean is soaring in pride.

     Now skimming the waves with his wings, and now shooting
     Up, arrow-like, into the dark clouds on high,
     The storm-finch is clamoring loudly and shrilly;
     The clouds can hear joy in the bird's fearless cry.

     In that cry is the yearning, the thirst for the tempest,
     And anger's hot might in its wild notes is heard;
     The keen fire of passion, the faith in sure triumph--
     All these the clouds hear in the voice of the bird....

     The storm-wind is howling, the thunder is roaring;
     With flame blue and lambent the cloud-masses glow
     O'er the fathomless ocean; it catches the lightnings,
     And quenches them deep in its whirlpool below.

     Like serpents of fire in the dark ocean writhing,
     The lightnings reflected there quiver and shake
     As into the blackness they vanish forever.
     The tempest! Now quickly the tempest will break!

     The storm-finch soars fearless and proud 'mid the lightnings,
     Above the wild waves that the roaring winds fret;
     And what is the prophet of victory saying?
     "Oh, let the storm burst! Fiercer yet--fiercer yet!"

FOOTNOTE:

[A] From "Songs of Russia," rendered into English by ALICE STONE BLACKWELL

To the Readers

The name "Open Road" had to be abandoned, owing to the existence of a magazine by that name.

Observations and Comments

+The importance+ of written history for the people can easily be compared with the importance
of a diary for the individual. It furnishes data for recollections, points of comparison between
the Past and Present. But as most diaries and auto-biographies show a lack of straight-forward,
big, simple, sincere self-analyses, so does history seldom prove a representation of facts,
of the truth, of reality.

The way history is written will depend altogether on whatever purpose the writers have in view,
and what they hope to achieve thereby. It will altogether depend upon the sincerity or lack
thereof, upon the broad or narrow horizon of the historian. That which passes as history in
our schools, or governmentally fabricated books on history, is a forgery, a misrepresentation
of events. Like the old drama centering upon the impossible figure of the hero, with a gesticulating
crowd in the background. Quacks of history speak only of "great men" like Bonapartes, Bismarcks,
Deweys, or Rough Riders as leaders of the people, while the latter serve as a setting, a chorus,
howling the praise of the heroes, and also furnishing their blood money for the whims and extravagances
of their masters. Such history only tends to produce conceit, national impudence, superciliousness
and patriotic stupidity, all of which is in full bloom in our great Republic.

Our aim is to teach a different conception of historical events. To define them as an ever-recurring
struggle for Freedom against every form of Might. A struggle resultant from an innate yearning
for self-expression, and the recognition of one's own possibilities and their attitude toward
other human beings. History to us means a compilation of experiences, out of which the individual,
as well as the race, will gain the right understanding how to shape and organize a mode of
life best suited to bring out the finest and strongest qualities of the human race.

       *       *       *       *       *

+The American Brutus+ is, of course, a business man and has no time to overthrow Cæsar. Recently,
however, the imperialistic stew became hot and too much for him. The marriage of Miss Alice
Roosevelt produced such a bad odor of court gossip, as to make the poor American Brutus ill
with nausea. He grew indignant, draped his sleeve in mourning, and with gloomy mien and clenched
fists, went about prophesying the downfall of the Republic.

